Oct. 1879.]

WOLSEY V. CHAPMAN.

WOLSEY V. CHAPMAN.
1. It has been settled in this court that the title of the Des Moines Navigation
and Railroad Company to the lands donated to the State of Iowa for the
improvement of the Des Moines River by the act of Aug. 8, 1846 (9 Stat.
77), is good against the State, the railroad companies claiming under the
act of May 15, 1856 (11 id. 9), and, after 1855, as against pre-emptors under
the act of Sept. 4, 1841. 5 id. 453.
2. The order of the Secretary of the Interior of April 6, 1850, directing that the
lands on the Des Moines River above the Raccoon Fork be reserved from
sale, was, in contemplation of law, the order of the President, and had the
same effect as a proclamation mentioned in said act of 1841. Being so
reserved, they were not subject to selection by the State of Iowa, as forming a part of the five hundred ihousand acres granted to her for internal
improvements, which she, with the consent of Congress, appropriated to the
use of common schools.
3. The title which the State acquired to the lands above said Raccoon Fork by
the joint resolution of March 2, 1861 (12 Stat. 251), and the act of July 12,
1862 (id. 543), inured to boafide purchasers from the State under the grant
of Aug. 8, 1846, and not to parties whose right is derived from her claim
to them for school purposes.
4. Those acts give the State and such bonafide purchasers the same assurance of
title as if the act of 1846 had granted all that succeeding legislation secured
for the river improvement.
5. The adjustment made in 1866 by the Department of the Interior and
a commissioner acting under the authority of the State of Iowa, and
ratified by the act of Congress, approved March 3, 1871 (16 Stat. 582),
settled the rights of no parties other than the State and the United
States.
6. The contract entered into June 9, 1854, between the State and the Des Moines
Navigation and Railroad Company, contemplated a conveyance of all the
river-grant lands not sold by the State on Dec. 23, 1853. By a joint resolution passed March 22, 1858, the State agreed to convey to the company
all the lands contained in said grant except such as she had sold prior to
Dec. 23, 1853. HEdd, that the land in controversy having been certified as
part of the lands granted to Iowa for the improvement of the Des Moines
River, the governor of the State was authorized to convey it to said
company.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the

District of Iowa.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
The case was argued by Hr. Galusha Par8onsfor the appellants, and by Ai1r. George G. Wright for the appellee.

WOLSEY V. CHAPMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This case presents again for consideration the Des Moines
River improvement grant. 9 Stat. 77. It is a suit in equity
brought by Chapman, who claims under the river grant, to
quiet his title as against Wolsey, whose rights depend on a
patent from the State of Iowa granting the lands in dispute as
part of lands ceded to the State under the eighth section of the
act of Congress passed Sept. 4, 1841, entitled "An Act to
appropriate the proceeds of the sales of the public lands and to
grant pre-emption rights." 5 id. 453. That section is as follows: "SECT. 8. And be it further enacted, that there shall be
granted to each State specified in the first section of this act five
hundred thousand acres of land for purposes of internal improvement: -Provided,that to each of the said States which has already

received grants for said purposes there is hereby granted no more
than a quantity of land which shall, together with the amount such
State has already received as aforesaid, make five hundred thousand acres, the selections in all of the said States to be made within
their limits respectively in such manner As the legislature thereof
shall direct; and located in parcels conformably to sectional divisions and subdivisions, of not less than three hundred and twenty
acres in any one location, on any public land except such as is or
may be reserved from sale by any law of Congress or proclamation
of the President of the United States, which said locations may
be made at any time after the lands of the United States in said
States respectively shall have been surveyed according to existing
laws. And there shall be, and hereby is, granted to each new State
that shall be hereafter admitted into the Union, upon such admission, so much land as, including such quantity as may have been
granted to such State before its admission, and while under territorial government, for purposes of internal improvement as aforesaid,
as shall make five hundred thousand acres of land, to be selected
and located as aforesaid."
Sect. 10 granted pre-emption rights in the public lands, but
provided that "no lands included in any reservation, by any
treaty, law, or proclamation of the President of the United
States, or reserved for salines, or for other purposes; no lands

Oct. 1879.]

WOLSEY V. CHAPMAN.

reserved for the support of schools, nor the lands acquired by
either of the two last treaties with the Miami tribe of Indians
in the State of Indiana, or which may be acquired of the
Wyandot tribe of Indians in the State of Ohio, or other Indian
reservation to which the title has been or may be extinguished
by the United States at any time during the operation of this
act; no sections of land reserved to the United States alternate
to other sections granted to any of the States for the construction of any canal, railroad, or other public improvement; no
sections or fractions of sections included within the limits of
any incorporated town; no portions of the public lands which
have been selected as the site for a'city or town; no parcel or
lot of land actually settled and occupied for the purposes of
trade and not agriculture; and no lands on which are situated
any known salines or mines, shall be liable to entry under and
by virtue of the provisions of this act."
At that time Iowa was a Territory, organized under the act
of June 12, 1838. Id. 235. On the 8th of August, 1846,
Congress passed -the act making the Des Moines River grant
(9 Stat. 77), the material parts of which are as follows: "An Act granting certain lands to the Territory of Iowa, to aid
in the improvement of the navigation of the Des Moines
River, in said Territory.
"Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of
the United States of America in Congress assembled, that there
be, and hereby is, granted to the Territory of Iowa, for the purpose of aiding said Territory to improve the navigation of the
Des Moines River from its mouth to the Raccoon Fork (so-called)
in said Territory, one equal moiety, in alternate sections, of the
public lands (remaining unsold, and not otherwise disposed of, incumbered, or appropriated), in a strip five miles in width on each
side of said river, to be selected within said Territory by an agent
or agents to be appointed by the governor thereof, subject to the
approval of the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States.
" SEc. 2. And be it further enacted, that the lands hereby
granted shall not be conveyed or disposed of by said Territory, nor
by any State to be formed out of the same, except as said improvements shall progress; that is, the said Territory or State
may sell so much of said lands as shall produce the sum of
$30,000, and then the sales shall cease until the governor of said

WOLSEY V. (HAPMAN.

[Sup. ot.

Territory or State shall certify the fact to the President of the
United States that one-half of said sum has been expended upon
said improvements, when the said Territory or State may sell and
convey a quantity of the residue of said lands sufficient to replace
the amount expended; and thus the sale shall progress as the
proceeds thereof shall be expended, and the fact of such expenditure shall be certified as aforesaid.
"SEc. 4. And be it further enacted, that whenever the Territory of Iowa shall be admitted into the Union as a State, the
lands hereby granted for the above purpose shall be .and become
the property of said State for the purpose contemplated in this act,
and no other, provided the legislature of the State of Iowa shall
accept the said grant for tfie said purpose."
On the 28th of December, 1846, Iowa was admitted into the
Union as a State. 9 id. 117. By the Constitution, under
which the admission was granted, the 500,000 acres of land to
which the State became entitled by the act of 1841 were appropriated to the use of common schools, (Const. Iowa, 1846, art.
9; School Fund and Schools, sect. 3), and on the 2d of March,
1849, Congress, by a special act, assented to this appropriation.
Id. 349.
On the 17th of October, 1846, the Commissioner of the
General Land-Office requested the governor of the Territory
to appoint an agent to select the land under the river grant, at
the same time intimating that the grant only extended from
the Missouri line to the Raccoon Fork of the Des Moines River.
On the 17th of December, a few days before the admission
of the State, the territorial authorities designated the oddnumbered sections as the lands selected under the grant. The
State accepted the grant in form by joint resolution of the
General Assembly approved Jan. 9, 1847. On the 24th of
February following, the State created a "Board of Public
WXorks," to whom were committed the work, construction, and
management of the river improvement, and the care, control,
sale, disposal, and management of the lands granted the State
by the act of 1846. This board was organized Sept. 22, 1847,
and on the 17th of February, 1848, the Commissioner of the
General Land-Office, in an official communication to the
secretary of the board, gave it as the opinion of his office that

Oct. 1879.]

WOLSEY V. CHAPLAN.

the grant extended throughout the whole length of the river
within the limits of the State. On the 19th of June, 1848,
without any notice of a revocation of this opinion, a proclamation was issued by the President, putting in market some of
the lands above the Raccoon Fork the title to which would
pass to the State if the Commissioner was right in the construction he gave the grant. This led to a correspondence on
the subject between the proper officers of the State and the
United States, which resulted in the promulgation of an official
opinion by the Secretary of the Treasury, bearing date March
2, 1849, to the effect that the grant extended from the Missouri
line to the source of the river. In consequence of this opinion,
the Commissioner of the General Land-Office, on the 1st of the
following June, directed the registers and receivers of the local
land-offices to withhold from sale all the odd-numbered sections
within five miles on each side of the river above the Raccoon
Fork.
Afterwards, the State authorities called on the Commissioner
of the General Land-Office for a list of lands above the
Raccoon Fork which would fall to the State under this ruling.
The list was accordingly made out, and on the 14th of January,
1850, submitted to the Secretary of the Interior for approval ;
jurisdiction of matters of that kind having before that date
been transferred by law from the Treasury to the Interior
Department. On the 6th of April, the Secretary returned the
list to the land-office with a letter declining to recognize the
grant as extending above the Raccoon Fork without the aid of
an explanatory act of Congress, but advised that any immediate steps for bringing the lands into market be postponed, in
order that Congress might have an opportunity of acting on
the matter if it saw fit.
On the 20th of July, 1850, the agent of the State having in
charge the school lands and school fund gave notice at the
General Land-Office that he had selected the particular piece of
land in controversy in this suit as part of the 500,000-acre
grant under the act of 1841. Other lands coming within the
river grant, if extended above the Raccoon Fork, amounting in
the aggregate with this piece to 12,8131% acres, were included
in a list of similar selections approved at the Land Department

WOLSEY V. CHAPMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

in Washington on the 20th of February, 1851. Two days
afterwards, February 22, the Board of Public Works of the
State formally demanded of the Secretary of the Interior for
the river grant all the alternate odd sections above the fork.
On the 26th of July the order of the Secretary of the Interior,
under date of April 6, 1850, withholding the disputed ]ands
from sale, was coptinued in force until the end of the approaching session of Congress, in order to give the State an opportunity of petitioning for an extension of the grant.
On the 29th of October, 1851, the Secretary of the Interior,
after consultation with the President and his Cabinet, and
pursuant to a decision there made, wrote the Commissioner of
the General Land-Office as follows: "Sm, -I herewith return all the papers in the Des Moines case,
which were recalled from your office about the first of the present
month.
"I have reconsidered and carefully reviewed my decision of the
26th July last, and in doing so find that no decision which I can
make will be final, as the question involved partakes more of a
judicial than an executive character, which must ultimately be
determined by the judicial tribunals of the country; and although
my own opinion on the true construction of the grant is unchanged,
yet in view of the great conflict of opinion among the executive
officers of the government, and also in view of the opinions of
several eminent jurists which have been presented to me in favor
of the construction contended for by the State, I am willing to
recognize the claim of the State, and to approve the selections
without prejudice to the rights, if any there be, of other parties,
thus leaving the question as to the proper construction of the statute
entirely open to the action of the judiciary. You will please, therefore, as soon as may be practicable, submit for my approval such
lists as may have been prepared, and proceed to report for like
approval lists of the alternate sections claimed by the State of Iowa
above the Raccoon Fork, as far as the surveys have progressed, or
may hereafter be completed and returned."
The lists were submitted accordingly, and the following
indorsement was made thereon by the Secretary :"The selections embraced in the within list (No. 3)are hereby
approved in accordance with the views expressed in my letter of

Oct. 1879.]

WOLSEY V. CHAPMAN.

the 29th instant to the Commissioner of the General Land-Office,
subject to any rights which may have existed at the time the selections were made known to the land-office by the agents of the State,
it being expressly understood that this approval conveys to the
State no title to any tract or tracts which may have been sold or
otherwise disposed of prior to the receipt by the local land-officers
of the letter of the Commissioner of the General Land-Office, communicating the decision of Mr. Secretary Walker, to the effect that
the grant extended above the Raccoon Fork."
No. 3 showed the vacant lands above the Raccoon Fork subject to the claim of the State, and included the particular
parcel involved in this suit. On the 16th of March, 1852, the
list was forwarded to the several local land-offices as showing
the land which fell to the State under the construction given
the river grant by the Secretary of the Treasury, March 2,
1849, and by the Secretary of the Interior, Oct. 29, 1851.
On the 20th of August, 1853, the school-fund commissioner
of Webster County, under the authority of an act of the General Assembly of the State of the 25th of February, 1847, entitled "An Act to provide for the management and disposition
of the school fund," contracted to sell to William T. Wolsey
the land about which this suit arose. The purchase-money
having been paid in full, the governor of the State, on the 20th
of December, 1854, issued to Wolsey a patent in the form
required to pass title under such a sale. This patent purported
on its face to have been granted as and for a conveyance of
school lands.
On the 6th of January, 1854, after the contract of sale to
Wolsey, but before the issue of the patent, the Commissioner
of the General Land-Office formally withdrew the approval by
the Land Department of the selection of lands as part of the
500,000-acre grant which fell within the river grant, according
to the opinion of the Secretary of the Treasury, March 2, 1849,
and the Secretary of the Interior, Oct. 29, 1851. On the 30th
of December, 1853, the Secretary of the Interior approved to
the State, "under the act of Aug. 8, 1846, without prejudice
to the rights, if any there be, of other parties," a list of the
12,81310%. acres erroneously approved, 20th February, 1851, as
lands selected under the act of 1841, "previous to the adjust-

WOLSEY V. OHAPMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

ment of the grant, and before it was known that they belonged
to the State under the Des Moines River grant."
Until the 17th of December, 1853, the State itself, through
its board of public works, carried on the work of improving
the river, paying the expense from the proceeds of the sales
of the lands included in the river grant. A land-office had
also been established for the sale of these lands. On that day
the State entered into a contract with one Henry O'Reilly to
complete the work. This contract O'Reilly transferred, with
the consent of the State,-to the Des Moines Navigation and
Railroad Company, a New York corporation, and on the 9th
of June, 1854, in consequence of this transfer, a new contract
was entered into between the State and the corporation for the
purpose of simplifying and more fully explaining the original
contracts and agreements. By the new contract the State
agreed to convey to the company "all of the lands donated to
the State of Iowa for the improvement of the Des Moines
River by act of Congress of Aug. 8, 1846, which the said party
of the second part" (the State) "had not sold up to the
twenty-third day of December, 1853." This was the date at
which it was supposed the sale of the lands could be stopped
at the State land-office after the contract with O'Reilly.
I On the 15th of May, 1856, Congress passed an act (11 Stat.
9) granting to the State of Iowa, to aid in the construction of
certain railroads, every alternate section of land designated by
odd numbers for six sections in width on each side of each of
the several roads. The granting clause of the act contained,
however, the following proviso: -"And provide'dfurther, that any and all lands heretofore reserved
to the United States by any act of Congress, or in any other
manner by competent authority, for the purpose of aiding in any
object of internal improvement, or for any other purpose whatsoever, be and the same are hereby reserved to the United States
from the operation of this act, except so far as it may be found
necessary to locate the routes of said railroads through such reserved
lands, in which case the right of way only shall be granted, subject
to the approval of the President of the United States."
In 1856, the Commissioner of the General Land-Office
decided not to certify any more lands to the State under the

Oct. 1879.]

WOLSEY V. CHAPMAN.

river grant, and thereupon the Navigation Company suspended
work on the improvement. This led to a settlement between
the State and the" company, under the authority of a joint
resolution of the General Assembly for that purpose, passed
March 22, 1858, by which the State agreed to convey to the
Navigation Company all the lands contained in the rivergrant
which had been approved and certified to the State by the
general government, " excepting all lands sold or conveyed, or
agreed to be sold or conveyed by the State of Iowa, by its officers
and agents, prior to the twenty-third day of December, 1858,
under said grant." Afterwards, May 3, 1858, the governor of
the State executed to the company a deed conveying the lands
now in controversy, with others, by a specific description of
sections, townships, and ranges; and on the 18th of the same
month he executed another deed, which purported on its face
to have been made pursuant to the joint resolution of the
General Assembly authorizing the settlement with the company, and described the lands in the exact language of general
description used in the resolution.
Chapman, the plaintiff below, has all the title to the lands
involved in this suit which passed in this way to the Navigation
Company.
At the December Term, 1859, and during the month of April,
1860, this court decided, in The Dubuque & Pacific Railroad
Company v. Litcfield (23 How. 66), that the river grant as
originally made did not extend above the Raccoon Fork, and
thereupon, on the 18th of May, 1860, the Commissioner of the
General Land-Office sent to the registers and receivers of
the local land-offices a notice to be promulgated, as follows: "Notice is hereby given that the lands along the Des Moines
River, in Iowa, and within the claimed limits of the Des Mloines
grant in that State, above the mouth of the Raccoon Fork of said
river, which have been reserved from sale heretofore on account
of the claim of the State thereto, will continue reserved for the
time being from sale or fi'om location by any species of scrip or
warrants, notwithstanding the recent decision of the Supreme
Court against the claim.
"This action is deemed necessary to afford time for Congress to
consider, upon memorial or otherwise, the case of actual, bona.fide

764

WOLSEY v. CHAPMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

settlers holding under titles fi'om the State, and to make such
provision, by confirmation or adjustment of the claims of such
settlers, as may appear to be right and propet."
On the 2d of March, 1861 (12 Stat. 251), Congress passed
the following joint resolution : "Joint Resolution to quiet title to lands in the State of Iowa.
"Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States of America in Congress assembled, that all the title
which the United States still retain in the tracts of land along the
Des Moines River, and above the mouth of the Raccoon Fork
thereof, in the State of Iowa, which have been certified to said
State improperly by the Department of the Interior as part of the
grant by act of Congress, approved Aug. 8, 1846, and which is now
held by bona fide purchasers under the State of Iowa, be and the
same is hereby relinquished to the State of Iowa."
And on the 12th of July, 1862 (id. 543), the following act
was passed:

-

"Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States of America in Congress assembled, that the grant of
lands to the then Territory of Iowa, for the improvement of the Des
Moines River, made by the act of Aug. 8, 1846, is hereby extended
so as to include the alternate sections (designated by odd numbers)
lying within five miles of said river, between the Raccoon Fork
and the northern boundary of said State; such lands are to be held
and applied in accordance with provisions of the original grant,
except that the consent of Congress is hereby given to the application of a portion thereof to aid in the construction of the Keokuk,
Fort Des M oines, & Minnesota Railroad, in accordance with the
provisions of the act of the General Assembly of the State of Iowa,
approved March 22, 1858; and if any of said lands shall have been
sold or otherwise disposed of by the United States before the passage of this act, excepting those released by the United States to
the grantees of the State of Iowa, under the joint resolution of
March 2, 1862, the Secretary of the Interior is hereby directed to
set apart an equal amount of lands within said State to be certified
in lieu thereof: Provided,that if the said State shall have sold and
conveyed any portion of the lands lying within the limits of this
grant, the title of which has proved invalid, any lands which shall

Oct. 1879.]

WOLSEY V. CHAPMAN.

be certified to said State in lieu thereof, by virtue of the provisions
of this act, shall inure to and be held as a trust fund for the benefit
of the person or persons respectively whose titles shall have failed
as aforesaid."
After the passage of the joint resolution of March 2, 1861,
the Commissioner of the General Land-Office called on the
governor of the State for a list of the tracts of land " held by
bona, fide purchasers of the State of Iowa" on that date. In
response to this request the governor and land commissioner
of the State, on the 20th of November, 1862, furnished the
list required, and among others included the tracts granted to
the Navigation Company on the settlement made with that
company under the joint resolution of March 22, 1858. This
list was filed in the General Land-Office Dec. 1, 1862.
On the 80th of March, 1866, an act was passed by the
General Assembly of Iowa providing for the adjustment of
certain land claims with the general government. By this act
Josiah A. Harvey, the register of the State land-office, was
appointed a commissioner to adjust the matters in dispute, and
especially the excess of land which had been certified to the
State above what it was entitled to receive under the act of
Sept. 4, 1841, and the lands falling due under the joint resolution of March 2, 1861, and the act of July 12, 1862.
This act contained the following section: "SECT. 2. Said commissioner shall proceed to Washington City,
and present said claims to the Department of the Interior, and urge
the same to settlement as early and as speedily as may be consistent
with the interests of the State, and he is hereby authorized to
adjust the said excess of the 500,000-acre grant by permitting the
United States to retain, out of the indemnity land falling to the
State under said act of Congress of July 12, 1862, an amount
equivalent to such excess : Providec that nothing herein contained
shall be construed to be a relinquishment of the claim of the State
under the said 500,000-acre grant to the 1 2 , 8 1 38 N% acres selected
as a part of such grant, and subsequently rejected from a supposed
conflict with the act of Congress approved August, 1846, known
as the Des Moines River grant; and the said commissioner is
hereby instructed to secure a restoration of said selections as a part
of the 500,000-acre grant, and a confirmation of the title of the
State thereto, as a part of such grant."

766.

WOLSEY V. CHAPMAN.

[Sup. ot.

Under this authority, an adjustment was had with the United
States, by which it appeared that the State was entitled to
558,00033. acres, under the river grant, and that under the
500,000-acre grant it had received certificates for 22,6601h
acres more than it was entitled to if the 12,813- 1%' acres, also
certified under the river grant, was not included, and 85,4783,-4
if it was. The excess was charged to the account of the river
grant, and a balance struck accordingly. The Navigation and
Railroad Company was not a party to this settlement. The
adjustment was ratified by an act of the General Assembly of
the State passed March 31, 1868.
At the December Term, 1866, of this court, it was decided,
in the case of Wolcott v. Des Moines Company (5 Wall. 681),
that the lands included in the river grant above the Fork, as
finally settled by Congress, did not pass to the State for the
benefit of the railroad companies under the act of 1856, because,
at the time of the passage of that act, the lands were reserved
for the purpose of aiding in the improvement of the Des Moines
River, and, therefore, fell within the proviso limiting the grant
to lands not so reserved.
At its December Term, 1869, this court decided in _liley v.
Wells, No. 397 on the docket of the term, but not reported,
that the lands above the Raccoon Fork were so far "reserved"
by the action of the officers of the United States as not to be
subject to pre-emption in 1855, under the -tenth section of the
act of 1841.
On the 3d of March, 1871, Congress passed an act (16 Stat.
582), ratifying and confirming to the State of Iowa and its
grantees the title to the lands, in accordance with the adjustment made in 1866; but expressly provided "that nothing in
this act contained shall be so construed as to affect adversely
any existing legal rights, or the rights of any party claiming
title, or the right to acquire title, to any part of said lands under
the provisions of the so-called homestead or pre-empted [preemption] laws of the United States, or claiming any part thereof
as swamp lands.
At the December Term, 1872, of this court, after full consideration, the cases of Wolcott v. Des Moines Company and Biley
v. Wells were distinctly affirmed in Williams v. Baker (17 Wall.

Oct. 1879.]

WOLSEY V. CHAPMAN.

144) ; and in Hfomestead Company v. Valley Railroad (id. 153),
it was said to be "no longer an open question that neither the
State of Iowa, nor the railroad companies for whose benefit the
grant of 1856 was made, took any title by that act to the lands
claimed to belong to the Des Moines River grant of 1846, and
that the joint resolution of 2d of March, 1861, and act of July
12, 1862, transferred the title from the United States and vested
it in the State of Iowa for the use of its grantees under the
river grant."
The State voluntarily made itself a party to this suit for the
purpose of defending its title to the lands in controversy as
part of its school lands. An act of the General Assembly was
passed March 12, 1874, authorizing this to be done.
Upon this state of facts the court below granted the relief
asked by the bill and sustained the title of Chapman. ,To
reverse that decree this appeal was taken.
The following propositions were relied upon in the argument
for the appellants: 1. That the lands in question were not "reserved" lands
within the meaning of the exception in sect. 8 of the act of
1841.
2. That Chapman, claiming as he did under a patent from
the State later in date than that to Wolsey, cannot impeach
Wolsey's title in this action.
8. That Wolsey was such a bona fide purchaser from the
State that the grant of Congress under the joint resolution of
March 2, 1861, inured to his benefit.
4. That as the lands had been sold by the State previous to
Dec. 28, 1853, no title passed to the Des Moines Navigation
and Railroad Company under the settlement made upon the
authority of the joint resolution of the General Assembly of
March 22, 1858.
5. That by the adjustment and settlement between the State
and the United States in 1866, the title of the State under the
500,000-acre grant, and as part of the school lands, was confirmed.
These several propositions will be considered in their order.
1. As to the right of the State, on the 20th of February,
1851, to select these lands as part of the 500,000-acre grant.

WOLSEY V. CHAPMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

It has been settled in this court that the title of the Des
Moines Company is good as against the State and railroad companies under the railroad grant of 1856, and as against preemptioners after 1855 under the act of 1841. We are not
asked to disturb these rulings, and should not be inclined to do
so if -we were. It is contended, however, that the language
used in the eighth section of the act of 1841, defining the reservation, is so different from that of the tenth section, under
consideration in Riley v. Wells, and from that of the act of
1856, involved in Wolcott's case and the cases reported in
17th Wallace, as to render our former decisions of no controlling authority on the question now to be determined. We do
not so understand the effect of those decisions. Whatever
might be the force of such an argument if the cases involving
the act of 1856 stood alone, it seems to us impossible to distinguish the question now presented from that disposed of in Riley
v. Wells. In that case the language under consideration was,
"lands included in any reservation, by any treaty, law, or proclamation of the President of the United States, or reserved for
salines, or for other purposes;" and in this, "any public land,
except such as is or may be reserved from sale by any law of
Congress or proclamation of the President of the United States."
In the act of 1856 the corresponding language is, "any and all
lands heretofore reserved to the United States by any act of
Congress, or in any other mariner by competent authority, for
the purpose of aiding in any object of internal improvement, or
for any other purpose whatever."
It is conceded that the lands in controversy were actually
reserved from sale by competent authority when the selection
was made under the act of 1841. They were reserved also in
consequence of the act of 1846. The proper executive department of the government had determined that, because of doubts
about the extent and operation of that act, nothing should be
done to impair the rights of the State above the Raccoon Fork
until the differences were settled, either by Congress or judicial
decision. For that purpose an authoritative order was issued,
directing the local land-officers to withhold all the disputed
lands from sale. This withdrew the lands from private entry,
and, as we held in Riley v. Wells, was sufficient to defeat a set-

Oct. 1879.]

WOLSEY V. CHAPMAN.

tlement for the purpose of pre-emption while the order was in
force, notwithstanding it was afterwards found that the law, by
reason of which this action was taken, did not contemplate such
a withdrawal. This, it is agreed, settles the present case, unless
that decision resulted from the addition of the words, "reserved
for saline or for other purposes," which appear in the tenth section and not in the eighth.
The object of all interpretation is to ascertain the intent of
the law-makers, - to get at the meaning which they wished
their language to convey. A critical examination of particular
words is never necessary except in cases of doubt. Sects. 8
and 10 are parts of the same act. By one, a grant of public
lands to certain States for certain purposes was provided for,
and by the other, pre-emption rights were given to individual
citizens. Both had reference to public lands, and gave the
respective beneficiaries the power of making their own selections. There seems to be no good reason why the selections of
the pre-emptioner should be restricted within, narrower limits
than those of the State, and we cannot believe it was the intention of Congress to give a State the power to take lands under
sect. 8, which had actually been reserved by the United States
for any purpose whatever. It is true, in that section only
reservation by a law of Congress or the proclamation of the
President are specially spoken of, but it must have been
the intention to include in this all lawful reservations. In the
tenth section a reservation by treaty is specially mentioned ;
but we can hardly believe it would be seriously contended that,
under the eighth section, a State could select lands reserved by
a treaty because the word "treaty" was omitted in that section.
The truth is, there can be no reservation of public lands from
sale except by reason of some treaty, law, or authorized act of
the Executive Department of the government; and the acts of
the heads of departments, within the scope of their powers, are
in law the acts of the President. In Wilcox v. Jackson (13 Pet.
498), the question was directly presented whether a reservation
from sale by an order from the War Department was a reservation "by order of the President," and the court held it
was. The language of the statute then under consideration
was (p. 511), "or which is reserved from sale by act of ConvoL. X1.

49

70

WOLSEY v. CHAPMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

gress or by order of the President, or which may have been
appropriated for any purpose whatever;" and in the opinion of
the court it is said (p. 513): "Now, although the immediate
agent in requiring this reservation was the Secretary of War,
yet we feel justified in presuming that it was done by the approbation and direction of the President. The President speaks
and acts through the heads of the several departments in relation to subjects which appertain to their respective duties.
Both military posts and Indian affairs, including agencies,
belong to the War Department. Hence we consider the act of
the War Department in requiring the reservation to be made,
as being in legal contemplation the act of the President; and
consequently that the reservation thus made was, in legal effect,
a reservation made by order of the President, within the terms
of the act of Congress." That case is conclusive of this, unless
the word "proclamation," as used in the present statute, has a
signification so different from "order" in the other as to raise
a material distinction between the two cases. We see no such
intention on the part of Congress. A proclamation by the
President, reserving lands from sale, is his official public announcement of an order to that effect. No particular form of
such an announcement is necessary. It is sufficient if it has
such publicity as accomplishes the end to be attained. If the
President himself had signed the order in this case, and sent it
to the registers and receivers who were to act under it, as notice
to them of what they were to do in respect to the sales of the
public lands, we cannot doubt that the lands would have been
reserved by proclamation within the meaning of the statute.
Such being the case, it follows necessarily from the decision in
Wilcox v. Jackson that such an order sent out from the appropriate executive department in the regular course of business is
the legal equivalent of the President's own order to the same
effect. It was, therefore, as we think, such a proclamation by
the President reserving the lands from sale as was contemplated
by the act. This being the case, under our former decisions, no
title passed to the State by the approval of the selection of the
lands in dispute under the act of 1841. Being lawfully reserved
from sale at the time of the selection, they were not included
in the grant which that act provided for.

Oct. 1879.]

WOLSEY V. OHAPMAN.

2. As to the right of Chapman to question Wolsey's title.
Of this we entertain no doubt. If the State had no title
when the patent issued to Wolsey, he took nothing by the
grant. No question of estoppel by warranty arises, neither
does the after-acquired title inure to the benefit of Wolsey,
because when the United States made the grant in 1861 it was
for the benefit of bonafide purchasers from the State, under the
grant of 1846. This is evident as well from the tenor of the
joint resolution of 1861 as from the act of 1862. The relinquishment under the joint resolution is of all the title which
the United States retained in the tracts of land above the Raccoon Fork "which have been certified to said State improperly
by the Department of the Interior as part of the grant by the
act of Congress approved Aug. 8, 1846, and which is now held
by bonafide purchasers under the State of Iowa;" and by the
act of 1862 the lands are in terms to be held and applied in
accordance with the provisions of the original grant. This
legislation, being in pari nzateria, is to be construed together,
and manifests most unmistakably an intention on the part of
Congress to put the State and bona fide purchasers from the
State just where they would be if the original act had itself
granted all that was finally given for the river improvement.
The original grant contemplated sales by the State in execution of the trust created, and the bonafide purchasers referred
to must have been purchasers at such sales. This being so, the
grant when finally made inured to the benefit of Chapman
rather than Wolsey. Neither took title from the State at first,
and as the final grant from the United States was in legal effect
to Chapman or his grantors, he has the right to have that fact
declared by a judicial decision against Wolsey, who sets up his
adverse claim.
3. As to the alleged bona fide purchase of Wolsey.
This has been substantially disposed of by what we have
already said. He purchased under the school-land grant. His
patent so in terms declares. Consequently he cannot be a purchaser under the river grant, to confirm which, as has been
seen, the legislation of 1861 and 1862 was had.
4. As to the adjustment of 1866.
We are clearly of the opinion that this adjustment settled no

772

WOLSEY V. CHAPMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

rights as between any other parties than the State and the
United States. The conflicting claimants were not parties to
that settlement. The agent of the State was instructed not to
relinquish the claim of the State under the school-land grant,
and he did not do so. The United States simply applied themselves to the adjustment of quantities under all the grants, and
whenever they did speak were careful to say that nothing which
was done should be construed as affecting adversely any existing rights. The result was to leave the whole question to the
ultimate determination of the courts.
5. As to the right of the governor to convey the lands in
question to the Des Moines Company under the joint resolution
of March 22, 1858, authorizing a conveyance upon settlement
with the company.
The original contract between the State and the company
contemplated a conveyance of all the river-grant lands not sold
by the State on the 23d of December, 1853. This should be
construed in the light of the fact that the act making the river
grant provided for sales of the granted lands to furnish the
means of making the required improvement, and if this contract stood alone, we should have no hesitation in holding that
the sales referred to were such as had been made in the execution of the trust under which the lands were held, but if there
could be any doubt on that subject, the resolution which authorized the settlement removes all grounds for discussion. By
that resolution, all the lands which had before that time been
approved and certified to the State under the river grant were
to be conveyed to the company, excepting such as had been
sold or agreed to be sold by the officers of the State prior to
Dec. 23, 1853, "under said grant." The land now in controversy had been so certified, and it had also been sold under
that grant. Therefore, the governor was expressly authorized
to include it in his conveyance.
This disposes of all the questions urged upon our consideration, and the decree of the court below is consequently
Affirmed.

