256

LEGGENr v. AVERY.

[Sup. Ct.

lated by statute, which required that the question of usury
should be tried by jury at the bar of the court. Apparently,
the verdict of the jury was to be conclusive. In this case a bill
of exceptions was taken in which all the evidence given on the
trial was set forth; and the Court of Appeals went into a full
consideration both of the evidence and of the rulings of the
court, and reversed the decree and ordered a new trial, with instructions that if the evidence on the new trial should be substantially the same as on the former trial, the court should instruct
the jury, if they believed the evidence, that they ought to find
the transaction not to be usurious. In view of the effect given
to the verdict by statute in this case, we see nothing in the
action of the Court of Appeals in conflict with what has been
laid down in this opinion; and we find nothing material to the
question in the other cases that have been cited.
-Decreeaffirmed.

LEGGETT

v.

AVERY.

1. Where, on the surrender of letters-patent, a disclaimer of a part of the inven-

tions described in them is filed by the patentee in the Patent Office, and
reissued letters are granted for the remainder, -Held, that, if in a second
reissue the disclaimed inventions are embraced, he cannot sustain a bill to
enjoin the infringement of them.
2. Quxre, are reissued letters-patent valid, if they contain any thing which the
patentee disclaimed, or in the rejection of which he acquiesced, in order to
obtain the original letters .

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Kentucky.
The facts are sufficiently stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. M. -D. Leggett for the appellants.
Mr. John B. Hatch, contra.
delivered the opinion of the court.
This was a bill in equity filed by the appellants against the
appellees for an injunction to restrain the latter from infringing
certain letters-patent for an improvement in plows, and for an
account of profits and an assessment of damages. The lettersMR. JUSTICE BRADLEY

Oct. 1879.]

LEGGETT v. AVERY.

patent were originally granted to one Matthew G. Slemmons
on the ninth day of October, 1860, surrendered and reissued
on the twenty-second day of June, 1869, extended for seven
years from the ninth day of October, 1874, and again surrendered and reissued on the tenth day of November, 1874. One
of the defences made by the defendants was, that the last reissue embraced certain claims for alleged inventions, which had
been expressly disclaimed by the patentee as a condition of
getting the letters extended, and which are the specific claims
which the defendants are charged with infringing. The fact
on which the defence is based seems to be well founded. In
the original letters, granted in 1860, the only thing claimed
was, "the arrangement of the two curved shoulder-beams, A, A,
a clevis, B, transverse bar, D, m, slotted adjustable handles,
E, E, b, and notched and mortised shovels, 0, 0, e, in the
The specification
manner and for the purpose described."
commences by saying, "My invention consists in the particular
arrangement of the several parts in the manner and for the purpose hereinafter described." Of course this was a claim for a
combination of a number of particulars, and was a very narrow
patent, for no one would infringe it who did not use all the
parts in the combination as described. It is not pretended that
the defendants have done so.
But in 1869 the patentee surrendered these letters and obtained a reissue, embracing six different claims, which were as
follows: "1. The two converging beams A A, each one of which has a
shovel-standard, A', formed by bending its rear end, substantially as
described.
"2. The converging beams A A, connected together and constructed with curved shovel-standards A' A t upon them; substantially as described.
"3. The union of the front ends of plow-beams, which have their
rear ends bent to form shovel-standards, by means of a clevis or
device by which the team is hitched to the implement, substantially
as described.
"4. The converging plow-beams A A, having shovel-standards
A' At formed on them, in combination with handles F F and handlesupporting braces E E, substantially as described.
"5. In combination with the foregoing, the manner, substantially
17
voL. XL

LEGGETI

V. AVERY.

[Sup. Ot.

as described, of adjusting the handles F F, and securing them to the
beams at any desired angle.
"6. Constructing of one piece of metal a plow-beam, A, and a
curved shovel-standard A', with a shoulder d formed on the latter,
substantially as described.'
The defendants allege that most of these claims were for
devices that had long been in public use, and that the patentee
never attempted to vindicate his title to them by instituting
any suits against those who had used them; and evidence on
the subject was introduced which it would be necessary for us
to examine, if the case depended on this issue. But early in
1874 the patentee, on behalf of the present complainants and
appellants who had purchased the patent, applied for an extension for another seven years. This was opposed by those who
were interested in the subject-matter, and the acting commissioner of patents refused to grant the extension unless the
patentee would abandon all the claims in the reissued patent
of 1869, except the fifth. Thereup6n a disclaimer was filed
accordingly, and the patent was extended for the fifth claim
only, which the defendants have not infringed. This disclaimer
was filed on the 5th of October, 1874; and the extension was
granted on the ninth of the same month. On the same day,
another reissue was applied for, including substantially the
claims which had been rejected and disclaimed. The examiner
refused to pass the application; but it was persisted in, and
finally, on the 10th of November, 1874, the reissue was granted
on which the present suit was brought. This reissue contains
the following claims: "1. Two diverging beams, A A, that have their rear ends bent
to form shovel-standards, the said beams being fastened rigidly
together, substantially as described, at and springing from the point
of attachment for the draft.
"c2. Two diverging beams, A A, that have their rear ends bent
to form shovel-standards, and their front ends fastened rigidly together and merged into a device, substantially as described, whereby
the plow may be attached to the draft.
"3. The combination, substantially as described, with the two
plow-beams A A, of the handles F F, and adjustable handle-supporting braces E E."

Oct. 1879.]

LEGGETT V. A ERY.

It is obvious, on inspection, that the first and second of these
claims are for substantially the same inventions which were
disclaimed before the extension, and are for different inventions
from that which was included in and secured by the letterspatent as extended. The court below deemed this, amongst
other things, a fatal objection to the validity of the reissued
letters-patent. We agree with the Circuit Court. We think.
it was a manifest error of the commissioner, in the reissue, to
allow to the patentee a claim for an invention different from
that which was described in the surrendered letters, and which
be had thus expressly disclaimed. The pretence that an "error
had arisen, by inadvertence, accident, or mistake," within the
meaning of the patent law, was too bald for consideration.
The very question of the validity of these claims had just been
considered and decided with the acquiescence and the express
disclaimer of the patentee. If, in any case, where an applicant
for letters-patent, in order to obtain the issue thereof, disclaims
a particular invention, or acquiesces in the rejection of a claim
thereto, a reissue containing such claim is valid (which we
greatly doubt), it certainly cannot be sustained in this case.
The allowance of claims once formally abandoned by the applicant, in order to get his letters-patent through, is the occasion
of immense frauds against the public. It not unfrequently
happens that, after an application has been carefully examined
and compared with previous inventions, and after the claims
which such an examination renders admissible have been setfled with the acquiescence of the applicant, he, or his assignee,
when the investigation is forgotten and perhaps new officers
have been appointed, comes back to the Patent Office, and,
under the pretence of inadvertence and mistake in the first
specification, gets inserted into reissued letters all that had been
previously rejected. In this manner, without an appeal, he
gets the first decision of the office reversed, steals a march
on the public, and on those who before opposed his pretensions (if, indeed, the latter have not been silenced by purchase), and procures a valuable monopoly to which he has not
the slightest title. We have more than once expressed our
disapprobation of this practice. As before remarked, we consider it extremely doubtful whether reissued letters can be sus-

[Sup. Ct.

SIMMONS v. WAGNER.

tained in any case where they contain claims that have once
been formally disclaimed by the patentee, or rejected with his
acquiescence, and he has consented to such rejection in order to
obtain his letters-patent. Under such circumstances, the rejection of the claim can in no just sense be regarded as a matter
of inadvertence or mistake. Even though it was such, the
applicant should seem to be estopped from setting it up on an
application for a reissue.

Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

did not sit in this case.

SIMM oS v. WAGNER.
1. A tract of public land which has been sold by the proper officer of the United
States, and the purchase-money therefor paid, is not subject to entry while
the sale continues in force.
2. A party in possession of lands, holding an uncancelled certificate of the register of the land-office within whose district they are situate, showing that
full payment has been made for them, was sued in ejectment by the party
who subsequently entered them, and obtained a patent therefor. Held, that
the plaintiff is not entitled to recover.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

1M1r. A. -L. Knapp for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Charles P. Wise for the defendant in error.
Mr. CHFr
JUSTICE WAiTE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This was an action of ejectment brought by Simmons, the
plaintiff in error, against Wagner, the defendant, to recover
the possession of the N. E. fr. I see. 19, T. 4, N. R. 9 W. of
the third principal meridian, Illinois. Simmons claimed title
under a patent from the United States, dated April 25, 1871,
granting him the lands as the assignee of one Mecke, who entered them at the land-office Jan. 25, 1871. Wagner claimed
through a purchase made under the old credit system, April

