Oct. 1879.]

ScIrIo V. WRIGHT.

SCIPIO ¢V.WRIGHT.
1."An act authorizing a town to borrow money for aiding in the construction of
a railroad provides that "all moneys borrowed under the authority of this
act shall be paid over to the president and directors of such railroad company (now organized, or such company as may be organized, according to
the provisions of the general railroad law, passed April 2j 1850) as may be
expressed by the written assent of two-thirds of the resident tax-payers of
sald town, to be expended by such president and directors in grading,
constructing, and maintaining a railroad or railroads passing through the
city of Auburn, and connecting Lake Ontario with the Susquehanna and
Cayuga or the New York and Erie Railroad." Held, that the tax-payers
were not thereby required to "express" (that is, designate) the company by
name; and that an assent authorizing the money to be paid "to the presrdent and directors of a railroad company organized according to the requirements of the general railroad laws for the purpose of construcfing a railroad
connecting Lake Ontario with the Susquehanna and Cayuga Railroad and
passing through the city of Auburn," was sufficient.
2. A prerequisite to the issue of bonds by town authorities, that the written
assent of two-thirds of the resident persons taxed in said town, as appearing
on the assessment-roll made next previous to the time such money may
be borrowed, shall be obtained, verified, and filed in the clerk's office of the
county, is intended as a protection against a town debt rather than against
the form it might assume after it had been incurred, or when the security
for it should be given. And where such prerequisite was coupled with
authority to subscribe to the capital stock of a railroad company a sum
equal to the amount of the bonds issued, Held, that they are not invalid
because not issued until after the date when the assessment-roll referred to
was by law required to be completed, the assent having been filed, and
the subscription for the stock of the company made, the bonds executed
and some of them sold and the proceeds paid on account of the subscription
before that date,
3. A statute of New York authorizing towns to subscribe to the capital stock of
railroad companies and issue bonds for the purpose of borrowing money
therefor, prescribed the manner in which the power conferred shduld be
exercised. It appearing to be the settled construction given by the courts
of that State to this statute, under which certain bonds now in suit were
issued, and to other similar statutes, that they do not authorize an exchange
of bonds for shares of stock, and that a purchaser, with notice that such a
disposition of the bonds was made by the town officers, cannot recover in
a suit brought upon them, this court follows this construction of the State
statute.

to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of New York.
This was an action brought by William P. Wright against
ERROR

SCiPIO v. WRIGrn .

[Sup. ot.

the town of Scipio, on twenty-five instruments in writing,
numbered from 1 to 25, both inclusive, all being alike, except
as to their number, and also except that eight of them, being
those numbered from 1 to 8, both inclusive, are payable to
Slocum I-owland or bearer. The others are payable to bearer,
no payee being named therein. To all were annexed coupons
for the sum of thirty-five dollars each, differing only as to the
time when payable, there being one coupon for each instalment
of semi-annual interest on each bond, the first being due July 1,
1858, and the last, Jan. 1, 1873. One of which instruments is
in the words and figures following, viz.: -

"No. 2.]

STATE OF NEw Yonx, COUNTY OF CAYUGA.

[$1,000.

"Seven per cent loan, not exceeding $25,000.
"Be it known that the town of Scipio, in the county of Cayuga
t and State of New York, in pursuance of an act of the legislature
, of said State, entitled 'An Act to authorize any town in the
county of Cayuga to borrow money for aiding in the construction of a railroad or railroads from Lake Ontario to the New
0
York and Erie or Cayuga and Susquehanna Railroad,' passed
April 16, 1852, and for the purpose of aiding the construction of
0 the Lake Ontario, Auburn, and New York Railroad, owes
and
promises to pay to Slocum Howland or bearer one thousand dollars,
with interest at the rate of seven per cent, payable semi-annually

on the first days of January and July in each year, on surrender of
the coupons hereto attached, at the Bank of the State of New York,
in the city of New York, the principal to be reimbursable at the
same place at the expiration of twenty years from the first day of
January, 1853.
"In testimony whereof, the supervisor and commissioners of the
town of Scipio have, pursuant to the provisions of the act aforesaid,
and the written assent of two-thirds of the resident tax-payers of
said town, obtained and filed in the office of the clerk of the county
of Cayuga, hereunto subscribed their names this twentieth day of
May, A.D. 1853.
"Supervisor.
"CALvnI
TRAcY,
"GEORGE SLOCur,
"Commissioners."

Oct. 1879.]

ScIPIo v. WRIGHT.

One of the coupons next to said instrument No. 2 is in the
words and figures following :"$35.]
"The town of Scipio, in the county of Cayuga, hereby acknowledges that there will be due the bearer thirty-five dollars, payable
at the Bank of the State of New York, in the city of New York,
on the first day of July, 1858, being interest due on that day on
bond No. 2.
"WiLmAm TRACY,
"Supervisor.

"OALvTN"GEORGE

TRACY,
SLOCUM,

"Commissioners."

Wright recovered judgment, and the town removed the case
here.
The remaining facts and the statutes bearing upon the case
are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. George F. Com8tock and H11r. S. Edwin .Dayfor the plaintiff in error.
.31r. David Wright, contra.
the opinion of the court.
At the trial of this case in the Circuit Court the extraordinary number of thirty-three exceptions were taken by the plaintiff in error, and signed by the judge. It does not, however,
always happen that the merits of a case brought in error are to
be measured by the number of exceptions taken in the inferior
court, or by the number of errors assigned. In this case, the
real questions-the only ones that need particular attentionare few.
The plaintiff below brought suit upon twenty-five bonds, or
rather notes, each for the sum of $1,000, which, as he alleged,
had been issued by the township in pursuance of and under
authority of law. Of course, it was incumbent upon him to
prove that the town was authorized to create the instruments,
MR. JUSTICE STRONG delivered

and to dispose of them in the manner in which disposition of

them was made. The authority relied upon was an act of the
legislature passed on the 16th of April, 1852, entitled "An

SCIPIO ' .WRIGBT.

.[Sup.

Ct.

Act to a'uthorize any town In the county of Cayuga to borrow
money for aiding in the construction of a railroad or railroads from Lake Ontario to the New York and Erie, or Susquehanna and Cayuga Railroad." The first section enacted as
follows - -

"It shall be lawful for the supervisor of any town in the county of
Cayuga" (the town of Scipio being one)," and the assessors of such
town, who are appointed by this act as commissioners to act in
conjunction with the'said supervisor in effecting and executing the
purposes of this act, to borrow, on the faith and credit of said town,
such a sum of money as they may deem necessary, not to exceed
$25,000, for a term of time not to exceed twenty years, with such
rate of interest as may be agreed upon, not exceeding seven per
cent per annum, and to execute therefor, under their official signatures, a bond or. bonds "on which the interest shall be made
payable annually or semi-annually during the term said money
may be borrowed...
All moneys borrowed under the authority of this act shall be paid over to the president and directors
of. such railroad company (now organized, or such company as may
be organized, according to the provisions of the general railroad
law, passed April 2, 1850), as may be expressed by the written
assent of two-thirds of the resident tax-payers of said town, tobe
expended by such president and directors in grading, constructing,
and, maintaining a railroad or railroads passing through the city of
Auburn, and connecting Lake Ontario with the Susquehanna and
Ciyuga Railroad, or the New York and Erie Railroad: Provided
always, that the said supervisor and commissioners shall have no
power to do' any of the acts authorized by this act, until a railroad
company has been duly organized according to the requirements of
the general railroad law for the purpose of constructing the aforesaid described railroad, and the written assent of two-thirds of the
resident persons taxed in said town, as appearing on the assessmentroll of such town made next previous to the time such money may
be borrowed, shall have been obtained by such. supervisor and commissioners, or some one or more of them, and filed in the clerk's
office of Cayuga County, together with the affidavit of such supervisor or commissioners, or any two of them, attached to such statement, to the effect that the persons whose written assents are
thereto attached and flied as aforesaid comprise two-thirds of all
the resident tax-payers of said town on its assessment-roll next previous thereto."

Oct. 1879.]

Scipio v.

WRIGHT.

669

The second section we also quote, as follows, so far as is
needful: "SECT. 2. It shall be lawful for the supervisor and commissioners
of any town in said county, on obtaining and filing such assent, as
provided in the first section, to subscribe for and take in the name
of and for said town, such a number of shares of the capital stock
of such company as shall or may be organized for the purpose of
constructing the aforesaid described railroad or railroads, as will be
equal to the amount of the bonds executed under the authority of
this act."
The tenth section made it the duty of the electors of the
town to elect at the next annual town meeting two commissioners to act in conjunction with the town supervisor in carrying into effect the provisions of the act.
At the time when this act was passed, so far as it appears,
there was no organized company in existence with power to
build such a railroad as the act described; but on the 23d of
August next following, articles of association of such a company, organized under the general railroad laws of the State
for the purpose of constructing a railroad from Lake Ontario
to the Cayuga and Susquehanna Railroad, passing through
Auburn and Scipio, were filed in the office of the Secretary
of State. Subsequently to the formation of this company, the
supervisors and assessors of the town obtained a written assent of three hundred and one residents and taxables of the
town, appearing on the assessment-roll for the year 1852, and
on the 8th of December, 1852, two of the assessors made oath
that the persons whose written assents were attached thereto
comprised two-thirds of all resident tax-payers of the town of
Scipio, on the assessment-roll thereof for the year 1852. These
assents and the affidavit indorsed thereon were filed in the
clerk's office of Cayuga County on Jan. 11, 1853. On the 1st
of March, 1853, two railroad commissioners were duly elected
for the town, and on the 16th of May next following, they,
together with the supervisor, in the name and for the town,
subscribed upon the books of the said railroad company for
five hundred shares of fifty dollars each of its capital stock.
On the 20th of the same month they executed by their
official signatures the twenty-five notes in suit, payable to

Scirpio v. WIGHT.

[Slip. t

'bearer. Eight of them were sold by the comimissioners to
Slocum Howland at par; and the proceeds of the sale were
,paid to the railroad company on account of the stock subscription, the commissioners taking from the company for the'
town a certificate for the five hundred shares of stocks, which,
so far as it appears, the town now holds. To this extent
money -was borrowed upon the bonds, and paid over in ac"cordance with the'statute. Howland also bought the remaining seventeen bonds from 'the railroad company, to which
they had been delivered by the railroad commissioners under
-an arrangement we shall: notice hereafter,' and the company
.indorsed the certificate of stock as full paid. It is out of
-these facts that the principal questions involved in the case
arise.
It is contended by the plaintiff in error that the bonds were
unauthorized; because, as it is alleged, the written assent of
the tax-payers did not conform in substance or meaning to the
requirement of the statute, in that it did not "express the railroad corporation to which the moneys to be borrowed by the
,town should be paid." We think this position is quite untenable. The identification of the company in the written assent
is as perfect as it would have been had it been described by its
corporate name. The statute did not require that the tax-payers should " express" (that is, designate) the company by
its name. Any mode of description that designated it was sufficient. The assent authorized the commissioners to pay the
money borrowed, for which the bonds were to be given, "to the
president and directors of a railroad company organized according to the requirements of the general railroad laws for the
purpose. of constructing a railroad connecting Lake Ontario
with the Susquehanna and Cayuga Railroad, and passing through
the city of Auburn." This was in strict conformity with the
description given in the statute. It fitted exactly the company
organized in August, 1852, and there cannot be a doubt that
the assent was intended to designate that company. There
-was no other company in existence to which the description
could apply. Unless, therefore, the Word "express," as used
in the statute, was intended to convey some other meaning
than "described" dr "designated" (which can be maintained

-Oct.1879.]

Scipio V. WnGiTo.

with no show of reason), the assent in form was all that was
required for authority to issue the bonds.
A second position taken by the plaihtiff in error is that all
the bonds except three are void, because they were issued after'
the assents of the tax-payers as appearing on the assessmentroll of the town for the year 1852 had spent their force and
ceased to be authority. This is founded upon the phraseology of the statute, which requires as a prerequisite to any
action by the commissioners that the written assent of twothirds of the resident persons taxed in said town, as appearing
on the assessment-roll made next previous to the time such
money may be borrowed, shall be obtained, verified, and filed
in the clerk's office. Recalling the facts, heretofore stated, the
written assent of the required number of tax-payers on the
assessment-roll of 1852 was obtained and verified, and it was
filed on the 11th of January, 1853. Then the authority to
issue the bonds, borrow the money, subscribe for the stock, and
elect railroad commissioners became perfect. The town did
elect railroad commissioners on the 1st of March, 1853, the
subscription for the stock of the company was made, a debt
of !25,000 therefor was incurred, and the bonds or notes for
an equal amount were executed, and at least some of them
were sold at par and the proceeds of the sale were paid on
account of the subscription, all before any new assessment-roll
could be completed and before the law required any to be
made. For all this there was complete authority. Every
thing had been done which was required to authorize the creation of the indebtedness to the railroad company. Did the
legislature intend that after the town had lawfully created a
debt and lawfully executed bonds with which to borrow the
money necessary to pay it (bonds confessedly authorized at the
time when they were made), the bonds should become void if
the money could not be borrowed within two months and a
half, or between May 20 and Aug. 1, 1853? Did it intend
thus to leave the debt in existence, and at the same time to
take away the power to provide means for its payment? Such
a construction of the act would be most unreasonable. It
would be standing upon the letter and ignoring the spirit of
the statute. It would be closing our eyes to the only substan-

Soipio, v. WRI[u.C.

-

I[Sup.

Ot,

tial teasonfor requiring the assent of two-thirds of the resident
tax-payers before the commissioners could exert the power
,'given to'them, by the'*legislature. That was to ascertain
-whether the tax-payers would consent to the creation of a
-town liability, not to ascertain how or when the debt, when
incurred, should be evidenced. The substance of the power
--was the creation of a town debt. All the rest was formal.
"The legislature, it may be admitted, did not intend that the
-power conferred upon the railroad commissioners should continue indefinitely. Hence the assent of two-thirds of the taxable residents as appearing on the assessment-roll made next
previous to the borrowing of the money was required. But evidently by this-was meant that the assent should be given by
the tax-payers appearing on the roll made next before any debt
of the township should be incurred. It was protection against
,a town debt that was intended, rather than protection against
the form of the debt or the shape it might assume after it had
been incurred or when the security for it should be given.
Two distinct powers were given by the statute, each dependent
for its, exercise, though not for its creation, upon the prior con-sent of the taxables. The one was described by the first section. It was to borrow money and, execute bonds therefor,
paying, over the money borrowed to a railroad company to be
expended in grading, constructing, and maintaining its road.
-This section made no-reference to a subscription for the stock
-or to a debt directly to the railroad company.
. But the second section authorized a subscription to the capital stock and the consequent assumption of a legal liability to
the company, equal to the amount of the bonds issued, which
-might be discharged afterwards by levying a tax, or by borrowing money, giving bonds therefor, and paying it over. Nothing
in the act postponed - subscription for stock until the money to
pay for it could be borrowed. This debt was incurred before
the assessment-roll of 1853 had any existence. The right to
incur it when it was incurred was, therefore, complete. The
exercise of the power was warranted by the written assent filed.
For these reasons we think the instruments sued upon are not
invalid, because they -were not issued until after Aug. 1, 1853,
.when the assessment-roll for that year was by law required to
be completed.

Oct. 1879.]

SCIPIO V. WRIGHT.

The only other question raised by the assignments of error,
and by the numerous exceptions, is, whether the circuit erred
in refusing to rule, as requested by the defendant, that the
plaintiff could not recover for the last seventeen bonds, because,
instead of having been issued for money borrowed, they were
issued directly to the railroad company in exchange for its
stock.
This objection has no application to the first eight bonds,
numbered from I to 8 inclusive. They were sold at par, and
the proceeds were paid over to the company. This was, as
we have said, a substantial borrowing. The facts respecting
the remaining seventeen, as they appear in the record, may be
thus summarized: On the 7th of January, 1854, the railroad company received
from the "railroad commissioners" of the town the seventeen
bonds, nominally at par, and indorsed "full paid" on the certificate of stock, which the town had previously taken, and upon
which $8,000, the proceeds of the first eight bonds, had been
paid. This arrangement was accompanied by a written understanding that the company might at any time within eight
months from Oct. 11, 1853, redeliver the bonds, or any part of
them, to the town, and reduce the amount of credit on the certificate accordingly; and that if the company should sell the
bonds for more than par, it should account to the town for the
excess, but that the town might at any time within the said
eight months, and prior to the sale of the bonds by the company, have the right to demand the redelivery thereof on payment to the company of the par value. The bonds were never
redelivered, nor were they demanded. Some time after Jan. 7,
1854 (when does not exactly appear), Slocum Howland bought
the seventeen bonds from the railroad company, with notice
that money had not been borrowed upon them, but that they
had been transferred by the town supervisor and railroad commissioners, or one or more of them, in the first instance to the
company in exchange for its stock. What Howland paid for
them, whether the company obtained their full par value, is
not proved.
Howland held the bonds until 1874, after they became due,
when he sold them to the plaintiff, taking his note for the whole
VOL. xI.

43

SCIPIO V. WRIGHT.

[Sup. ot.

price, and that note remains unpaid. Neither Howland, therefore, nor Wright, the purchaser from him, stands in the position
of a bona fide purchaser without notice of the exchange of the
bonds for stock. Had either of them been such a purchaser,
the plaintiff's right to recover could not be gainsaid. But
the question now is, whether the fact that the bonds were not
issued for borrowed money, but were exchanged for stock of
the railroad company, is a defence for the town against a holder
who, when he purchased, had notice of the manner of their
issue. Were the question an open one, it would seem that it
ought not to be a defence. It might be regarded as a fair presumption that the bonds were sold to Howland for not less than
their par value, and that the company received their full amount
in money; or the transaction might be regarded as practically
a borrowing of the money by the town through the agency of
the railroad company. So far as discharging the debt of the
town for its stock subscription is concerned, and so far as relates
to obtaining a full-paid certificate, the transaction is, in legal
effect, the same as if the money had been borrowed by the town
directly and paid over to the company. And, if it had appeared
affirmatively that Howland had paid the full face of the bonds
and interest, without any discount, when he bought, every object
which the statute could have had in view in enacting that it
should be lawful for the town officers to borrow on the credit
of the town a limited amount of money and pay it over to the
railroad company, executing town bonds therefor, would have
been accomplished. In Gould v. The Town of Sterling (23N. Y.
456), it was said by Selden, J., when speaking of a transaction
like that we have now under consideration, where there had
been an exchange of town bonds for railroad stock: "If what
was done was the same in effect as if the money had been borrowed and paid over to the railroad company, the difference in
form would not be material." Such a case, however, is not
presented by this record.
The statute prescribed the manner in which the power it
conferred should be exercised. The town was at liberty to
subscribe for stock, but if bonds were used to pay for it the
mode of use was directed to be borrowing money with them
and paying the money to the railroad company. It is quite

Oct. 1879.]

SciPio V. WRIGHT.

conceivable that the purpose of such a direction, instead of
allowing an exchange of the bonds for the stock taken, -was
that the railroad company might obtain an amount of money
equal to the amount of the bonds. This was important to the
company, to the town as a stockholder, and to the public as
interested in the projected railway. If the bonds might be
delivered directly to the company in payment of the stock, it
might sell them at a discount. Thus it would fail to obtain
the assistance in building its road which the legislature contemplated it should have. Its stock would be practically sold for
less than par, and it would not be worth as much to the town
as it would be had all the money for which the bonds were
given come into the company's treasury. Whether such were
the motives that induced the peculiar phraseology of the statute
or not, the highest court of New York has repeatedly construed
it as prescribing the manner in which the bonds might be used
or issued, and as denying the power to exchange them directly
with the railroad company for the stock taken by the town.
These decisions have been constructions of the identical statute
we have now under consideration, and by which the bonds now
in suit are alleged to have been issued. The construction given
by the State court must, therefore, be our guide. Starin v. The
Town of Genoa (23 N. Y. 439) was a suit for interest upon town
bonds made under the act. They had been exchanged with a
railroad company for capital stock taken for the town, and the
exchange was accompanied by the same agreement as that made
between the town and company in the present case. The plaintiff was a purchaser from the railroad company, with knowledge
that it had received the bonds in payment of stock. In these
respects the case was exactly like the present. The Court of
Appeals ruled that issuing the bonds by exchanging them for
the company's stock was not an execution of the power and
authority granted by the statute, but an appropriation of them
in a manner not contemplated by the legislature, or by the taxpayers' assent. The court said, "It was evidently the intention
of the act that money should be raised and paid over to aid in
the construction of a railroad, and no color is given to the idea
or position that the credit merely of any town should be given,
through and by which money might be raised." They, there-

SCIPIO v. WRIGIT[

[Sup. Ct.

fore, held that the bonds were issued without authority, and as
the railroad company received them on a consideration not
authorized, it was chargeable with a knowledge of their invalidity, and it never could have enforced them. It was further
ruled that the plaintiff stood in no better position, that having
purchased with notice of the manner in which they had been
issued, he was not a bona fide holder. Gould v. The Town of
Sterling (28 N. Y. 456) is a similar case, and the ruling of the
court was the same. In The People v. Head (24 id. 114) we
find a reassertion of the invalidity of bonds first negotiated by
exchanging them for stock of the railroad company. The
opinion was delivered by Denio, J. It was, however, said that
a bona fide holder, who had no knowledge that the railroad
company had received the bonds in payment for the stock taken
for the town, would not be liable to the defence which existed
against the railroad company. Horton v. The Town of Thonpson. (71 id. 518) is another case in which the Court of Appeals
gave the same construction to another similar statute, holding
that bonds exchanged for stock were unlawfully issued, and that
a purchaser, with knowledge that they had been thus issued,
could not enforce them.
It thus appears to be the settled construction given by the
courts of New York to the act under which the bonds now in
suit were issued, and to other similar acts, that they do not
authorize an exchange of bonds for shares of the capital stock
of railroad companies, and that a purchaser who had notice at
the time of his purchase that such a disposition of the bonds
was made by the town officers or railroad commissioners, cannot
recover in a suit brought upon them.
I We find no decision of the Court of Appeals that is
in conflict with what was ruled in the cases we have cited, or which
weakens their authority, and as they are constructions of a State
statute, we are constrained to follow them. Gould v. The Town
of Oneonta (71 N. Y. 298), to which we have been referred,
presented an entirely different question. A statute enacted in
1859 bad authorized the transfer of the bonds directly to the
railroad company in payment of the stock.
Our conclusion, then, is that the Circuit Court erred in declining to instruct the jury, as requested, substantially, that upon

Oct. 1879.]

DOUGLASS V. COUNTY OF PIKE.

the facts proven in the case (and not contradicted), the plaintiff was not entitled to recover upon any of the seventeen bonds,
because the supervisor and commissioners did not issue them
for borrowed money, but transferred them to the railroad company in payment of the stock subscription.
We find no other error in the record.
The judgment will be reversed and the cause remanded for a
new trial; and it is
So ordered.
MR. JUSTIOE CLIFFORD and MR. JUSTICE SwAY E dis-

sented.

DOUGLASS v. COUXTY OF PIKE.
1. The court reviews the legislation and judicial decisions of Missouri, whereby
the constitutionality of an act of the General Assembly, entitled "An Act
to facilitate the construction of railroads in the State of Missouri," approved
March 23, 1868, was recognized and affirmed long after the county authorities had issued, pursuant to its provisions, the bonds whereon this suit was
brought. The court in this case adheres to its ruling in accordance with
those decisions, as announced in County of Cass v. Johnston (95 U. S. 360),
although the Supreme Court of Missouri has since declared that act to be
in conflict with sect. 14, art. 11, of the Constitution, adopted by that State
in 1865.
2. Where municipal bonds have been put upon the market as commercial paper,
the rights of the parties thereto are to be determined according to the
statutes of the State as they were then construed by her highest court;
and in a case involving those rights this court will not be governed by any
subsequent decision in conflict with that under which they accrued.
3. The settled judicial construction of a statute, so far as contract rights were
thereunder acquired, is as much a part of the statute as the text itself, and
a change of decision is the same in its effect on pre-existing contracts as a
repeal or an amendment by legislative enactment.
ERROR to the Circuit Court
Eastern District of Missouri.
This was an action by Joseph
and twenty-one overdue coupons
the county of Pike, Missouri.

form:

-

of the United States for the
M. Douglass on three hundred
detached from bonds issued by
The bonds are in the following

