STEAM-ENGINE CO. V. HUBBARD.

[Sup. Ct.

a

STBAx-ExGiNE Co

PANY

v.

HUBBARD.

A statute of Connecticut enacts that the president and secretary of each corporation organized thereunder shall annually make a certificate showing the
condition of the affairs of the corporation, as nearly as the same can be ascertained, on the first day of January or July next preceding the time of making
such certificate, setting forth the amount of capital actually paid in, the cash
value of its credits, the amount of its debts, the name and number of shares
of each stockholder, and deposit it, on or before the fifteenth day of Febituary
or August, with the town clerk of the town in which the corporation transacts its business. It also provides that if such president or secretary shall
intentionally neglect or refuse to comply with said provisions, and to perform
the duty required of them respectively, the persons so neglecting or refusing
shall be jointly and severally liable to an action founded on the statute for
all debts of such corporation contracted during the period of such neglect or
refusal. In an action by a creditor of such corporation against its president,
- Held, 1. That the statute is penal, and must be strictly construed. 2. That
the defendant is not liable, if the debt was contracted by the corporation
before, although it may remain unpaid during, the period when he neglected
or refused to comply with the requirements of the statute.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Connecticut.
This is an action by the Providence Steam-Engine Company, a creditor of the Odorless Rubber Company, a joint-stock
corporation organized under the laws of Connecticut, to recover

from Charles Hubbard, president of the latter company, the
amount due by it to the plaintiff.
The remaining facts, and the statute of ConnectiQut under
which the action is brought, are set forth in the opinion of the
court.
MAr. Oharles -E. Perkins for the plaintiff in error.

Hr. A. P. Hyde, contra.
CLTFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Statutory regulations were enacted by the State to enable
the business public to ascertain the pecuniary standing of jointstock corporations, and for that purpose it was made the duty
MR. JusTcIC

of the president and secretary of every such corporation annually to make a certificate showing the condition of the affairs

of the corporation, as nearly as the same can be ascertained, on
the first day of January or of July next preceding the time of

Oct. 1879.]

STEAM-ENGINE

CO. v.

HUBBARD.

making such certificate, stating the amount of paid capital, the
cash value of its credits, the amount of its debts, and the name
and number of shares of each stockholder, which certificate it
is required shall be deposited, on or before the 15th of February
or of August, with the town clerk of the town, who shall record
the same at full length. Conn. Rev. Stat., sect. 404, p. 172.
Such an officer, whether president or secretary, if he intentionally neglects or refuses to comply with that requirement
and perform the duty therein specified, is declared, to be liable
to an action founded on the statute for all debts of such corporation contracted during the period of such neglect or refusal.
Id., p. 174, sect. 413.
Sufficient appears to show that the Odorless Rubber Company was a joint-stock corporation legally organized in 1870,
at Middletown, under the laws of the State. About the time
of its organization, to wit, on the 9th of September of that
year, C. C. Post was elected president, and it appears that he
was twice re-elected at the annual meetings of the stockholders,
each held in April of the two succeeding years, and that he
continued to hold the office until the 17th of June following
his last election, when he resigned. During all the period he
was in office there was a secretary.
Neither the president nor the secretary during that period
deposited with the town. clerk any certificate required to be
so filed by the law of the State, except as follows: On the
20th of June, 1871, the president and secretary did deposit such
a certificate, showing the condition and assets of the company
on the first day of April of that year.
Prior to the 10th of June of the next year the defendant was
not even a stockholder of the company, but it appears that he
on that day signed the subscription paper exhibited in the
record for two hundred shares of new stock of the company,
and that eight days later he paid e1,800 towards his subscription. His promise to pay was conditional, that is, he was to
pay $6.25 per share whenever cash subscriptions to the amount
of $118,000 should be obtained, and the balance in equal
monthly instalments of ten per cent each from the date of the
subscription, . . . it being understood that none of said subscriptions shall be valid or obligatory until at least said amount

STEAM-ENGINE CO. V. HUBBARD.

[Sup. Ct.

of $118,000 shall have been subscribed and thirty per cent
deduction is made in the old stock. Subscriptions to the required amount were obtained, but no evidence was offered to
show that the thirty per cent deduction in the old stock was
ever made.
Evidence to show that the defendant was ever elected a
director is entirely wanting, but it is shown that on the day
the old president resigned, the board of directors elected him
president of the corporation in the place made vacant by the
resignation of his predecessor, and that thereafter he acted as
president and stockholder, and that he continued to act as
such until the 2d of September in that year, when he resigned
said office.
Beyond all doubt, he was during that period the acting
president of the corporation, and the bill of exceptions shows
that he never made any statement of the condition and assets
of the company until the day he resigned his office. Attempt
is made by the plaintiffs to show that he was culpably guilty
of neglect in that regard; but the bill of exceptions also shows
that on that day he, with the secretary, made out in due form
and deposited a certificate of the condition and assets of the
company as they existed on the first day of July, two weeks
subsequent to the day of his election as president of the corporation.
More than three months before the defendant was elected
president, the plaintiffs entered into a written agreement with
the rubber company, by which they contracted to furnish the
company a steam-engine for $5,700, and it appears that they
constructed the engine and shipped and delivered it to the purchasers; that the manufacturers subsequently placed it in position and put it in good running order, to the satisfaction of
the buyers. Due delivery of the same having been made, the
buyers made a cash payment and gave a note for a part of the
price, which was never paid, leaving more than $5,000 unpaid
when the rubber company was adjudged bankrupt. Payment
being refused, the plaintiffs brought this suit against the defendant as president of the rubber company, claiming that the
debt was contracted during the period that he was guilty of
neglect in not making and depositing the before-described

Oct. 1879.]

STEAM-ENGINE

Co.

V. HUBBARD.

certificate, and that in consequence of such neglect he is liable
for all the debts of such corporation contracted during that
period.
Service was made, and the defendant appeared and denied
the truth of all the matters alleged in the declaration. Subsequently the parties went to trial, and the verdict and judgment
were in favor of the defendant. Exceptions were filed by the
plaintiffs, and they sued out a writ of error and removed the
cause into this court.
When the plaintiffs rested their case, the defendant requested
the court to instruct the jury to return a verdict in his favor;
and the bill of exceptions shows that the Circuit Court, being
of the opinion that there were no disputed questions of fact,
gave the instruction as requested, and that the verdict was in
conformity with the instruction. Opposed to that, the plaintiffs
insist that the facts proved entitled them to the verdict, and
they assign for error the instruction given by the Circuit Court
to the jury.
Three principal defences are set up by the defendant, as
follows: 1. That he was never legally elected president of the
corporation. 2. That the debt was not contracted while he
was acting in the capacity of president of the company. 8. That
by the proper construction of the State statute he is not liable
for the debt due to the plaintiffs, even if the first two points
cannot be sustained.
Preliminary to those inquiries, the defendant contends that
Ghe statute upon which the action is brought is penal and
should be strictly construed; in which proposition the court
unhesitatingly concurs. Statutes somewhat similar in character
have been passed in several of the States, in all of which States
it is held that the statutes are penal, and that for that reason
their provisions must receive a strict construction. Take, for
example, the statute of New York, which provides that, on
failure of the company within twenty days from the 1st of
January to make, publish, and file an annual report, all the
trustees of the company shall be jointly and severally liable for
all the debts of the company then existing, and for all that shall
be contracted before such report shall be made, it has repeatedly been held that the act was penal, and that it could

STEA1-ENGINE CO. v. HUBBARD.

[Sup. Ct.

not be extended by construction to cases not fairly within
its language. Hence it was decided that the trustees could
not be held liable on account of the failure to publish and
file the annual report, unless the debt was contracted during
the default, or unless it existed at the time of a subsequent
default. Garrison v. Howe, 17 NT. Y. 458; Boughton v. Otis,
21 id. 261.
Repeated instances have occurred where suit was brought in
one State to enforce the statute liability for the debts of a
corporation created by the legislature of another State, in all
which it is held that the statute is penal, and that it can only
be enforced in the State where the statute was passed. Halsey v. MLean, 12 Allen (Mass.), 438; -Derricksonv. Smith,
3 Dutch. (N. J.) 166; Sturges v. Burton, 8 Ohio St. 215; Bank
v. Price, 33 Md. 487; Irwin v. McKeon, 23 Cal. 472.
Corresponding decisions have been made in other courts, and
to such an extent as to justify the remark that the rule is universal. Bird v. Hayden, 1 Robt. (N. Y.) 383; Moierv. Sprague,
9 R. 1. 541.
Suppose that is so, then it is contended by the defendant
that the act cannot be enforced against him unless it appears
that he was legally elected president, and that he was under
legal obligation to perform the duties of that office.
Persons acting publicly as officers of a corporation are ordinarily presumed to be rightfully in office. Bank of the United
States v. -Dandridge,12 Wheat. 64; Angell & Ames, Corp.
(9th ed.), sect. 139. Individuals elected and serving as such
officers may incur the statute liability for the corporate debts
of the company, even though irregularities occurred in their
election, if in all other respects the evidence brings them
within the category of legal default. Newcomb v. Reed, 12
Allen (Mass.), 362; Eagnerv. Brown, 36 N. H. 545, 563.
Stockholders elect the directors, and it is claimed by the
defendant that he was not legally elected president, because he
was not a stockholder, the condition of his subscription having
never been fulfilled; but he paid the first instalment, and the
evidence reported shows that he acted as a stockholder from
the time of his election as president until his resignation. His
subscription to the new stock was made before he was elected

Oct. 1879.]

STEAM-ENGINE CO. v. HUBBARD.

president, and the bill of exceptions shows that on the following day he paid the required amount of his subscription.
Power to elect the president is vested in the directors ; and
the record shows that he was formally elected to the office, and
that he acted in that capacity for a month and a half, when he
resigned. Beyond controversy, he was the acting president,
and in view of the circumstances the court is not inclined to
rest the decision of the case upon the ground that the defendant was not, during the period he performed the duties devolved upon the president of the company, legally responsible
for the neglect to comply with the requirement of that statute.
He acted as president during that period, and, therefore, is liable, if any liability exists, notwithstanding the informality
of his election. Thayer v. New England Lithographic Co.,
108 Mass. 521.
Three months before he was elected president the company
contracted with the plaintiffs for a steam-engine, but it was
not shipped for delivery to the purchasers until four days after
he was elected president and commenced to perform the duties
of his office.
Certificates of the kind are required to be deposited -with the
town clerk on or before the 15th of February or of August,
and the provision is that the persons neglecting or refusing to
comply with such requirements "shall jointly and severally
be liable to an action founded on the statute for all debts of
such corporation contracted during the period of such neglect
or refusal." Intentional neglect and refusal create the liability,
and the liability extends to the debts contracted by the company during the period of such neglect and refusal, and to no
others, -which of itself is sufficient to disprove the theory of
the plaintiffs that the defendant can in any view be held
liable for the default of his predecessor.
Officers of the kind are responsible for the consequences of
their own neglect or refusal to comply with the statute requirement while they remain in office, and they continue to be liable
for those consequences even after they go out of office; but
they are not responsible for the consequences of subsequent
defaults committed by their successors, nor are the successors
in such offices in any way responsible for the consequences of
VOL. XI.

13

STEAM-ENGINE CO. v. HUBBARD.

[Sup. Ot.

such defaults committed by their predecessors in office, for the
plain reason that the language of the statute is that the persons
so neglecting or refusing . . . shall be liable in an action
founded on the statute for all debts of the corporation contracted during the period of such neglect or refusal. Boughton
v. Otis, 21 N. Y. 261.
Much aid in construing the statute in question is not required,
as the language employed by the legislature speaks its own
construction; but if more be needed, it will be found in another
decision of the same tribunal as that just cited. Quarry v.
Bliss, 27 id. 277.
Statutes of the kind are passed for the benefit of creditors,
and their reliance always is upon the officers who are such
when they give the credit, and not upon persons who had
ceased to be officers, or who might subsequently become such
when those in office should go out.
Three things must concur in order that it can be held that
the defendant is liable: 1. That he was president of the corporation. 2. That he intentionally neglected or refused to
deposit the described certificate, as required by the statute.
3. That the debt was contracted during the period of such
neglect or refusal.
Where all these things concur, the president is liable, not
for all the debts of the corporation, but for all such as were
contracted while he was guilty of such default. If he was not
the president at the time of the default, or if the debt was contracted before he was in default, then he is not liable, as the
case is not brought within the letter or spirit of the statute.
Liability in such a case, as imposed, is in its nature penal, and
in order to render such an officer responsible it must appear
that he has neglected or refused to do some act which the law
made it his duty to perform. Craw v. .Easterly,4 Lans. (N. Y.)
513, 521; Bond v. Clark, 6 Allen (Mass.), 861-363; Harrisburg Bank v. Commonwealth, 26 Pa. St. 451.
Marked differences exist between the provisions of the New
York statute and those of the State of Connecticut, the latter
being much less stringent than the former. By the New York
law the duty of making the annual return is required of the corporation itself, and the penalty for neglect is imposed upon the

Oct. 1879.]

STEA)-

NGINE CO. v. HUBBARD.

trustees who are intrusted with the management of its affairs.
Consequently it is a corporate duty, and being such each succeeding board is bound to perform it if it has been neglected
by their predecessors. Unlike that, the duty to deposit the
certificate under the Connecticut statute is devolved on the
president and secretary in terms which show that a new president does not inherit the consequences of neglect of duty or
pecuniary liability from his predecessor in office. He is made
liable for his own neglect and not for that of a prior officer, as
clearly appears from the closing sentence of the penal section.
In New York the trustees, upon default, are made liable for all
the outstanding debts of the corporation, whenever contracted,
but in Connecticut the president and secretary are liable only
for debts contracted during the period of such neglect or
refusal.
Prior to his election the president, as such, had no duty to
perform in respect to such a certificate, which is a self-evident
proposition, and it is equally clear that his duty in that regard
ceased when he ceased to be president of the corporation.
Certificates of the kind are required to be made and deposited
with the town clerk on or before the 15th of February or of
August, as explicitly provided by the statute. On the 15th of
February of that year his predecessor was in office, and of
course the defendant was under no obligation to deposit any
such certificate on that day, nor was he in any manner in default because his predecessor did not perform that duty. Argument to show that he could not make and deposit such a
certificate before he was elected is unnecessary, as such a
proposition would be absurd, from which it follows that he was
not under any legal obligation to perform such a service until
the 15th of August of the same year, it appearing that his
election as president took place less than two months prior to
that time.
Concede that it became his duty as president to make and
deposit such a certificate with the town clerk on the 15th of
August next after his election, still it by no means follows that
the present action can be maintained, as it clearly appears that
he was not in default before that time. Proof of default in
the defendant without more will not maintain the action, as it

POMPTON V. COOPER UNION.

[Sup. C .

is also incumbent upon the plaintiffs to prove that the debt
alleged was contracted during the period of such neglect or
refusal. Apply that test to the case exhibited in the record,
and it is clear that the defendant is not liable and that the
decision of the court below is correct.
When the agreement for the steam-engine was made, the
defendant was not president of the corporation, and of course
he was not in default at that time, nor was he in default when
the engine was delivered and placed in position, because that
took place, in any view of the evidence, one month before the
15th of August, when the default of the defendant commenced.
Prior to that time the defendant was never in default, and
inasmuch as the debt of the plaintiffs was not contracted during the period of his default, he was not liable for that debt.
Garrison v. Howe, 17 N. Y. 458, 462.
Judgment affirmed.

POPTON V. COOPER UNION.
1. The bonds of "the inhabitants of the township of Pompton, in the county of
Passaic" and State of New Jersey, for $1,000 each, bearing date Jan. 1,
1870, issued by the commissioners appointed for that township, and reciting that they are issued in pursuance of an act of the legislature of New
Jersey, approved April 9, 1868, entitled "An Act to authorize certain townships, towns, and cities to issue bonds and take the bonds of the Montclair
Railway Company," are valid in the hands of a bona fide purchaser for
value before maturity.
2. The act of the legislature, approved March 18, 1867, incorporating that company authorized it to construct a railway from the village of Montclair, in
the township of Bloomfield, to the Hudson River, at one or the other of
certain designated points, and also to construct a branch thereof in said
township, and to " extend the said railway into the townships of Caldwell and
Wayne." By the act of April 9, 1868, provision was made for the appointment of commissioners for any township, town, or city "along the routes of
the Montclair Railway Company, or at the termini thereof," who, upon the
performance of certain precedent conditions, were authorized to issue its
bonds, dispose of the same, and invest the proceeds thereof in the bonds of
said company. By a supplemental act, approved March 16, 1869, the company was authorized to extend its railway from any point thereon to any
point in the township of West Milford, provided that said act should not be
construed as extending the operation of said act of 18681o any township,

