Oct. 1879.]

POLLARD V. RAILROAD CO.

POLLARD V. RAILROAD COTIPANY.
1. A judgment in assumpsit, brought by a husband and wife, on a contract by a
carrier of passengers to carry her safely, for injuries to her while being
carried, is a bar to another action of assumpsit on the same contract, by
the husband alone, to recover for the same injuries.
2. A different rule prevails when the action is in tort against the carrier for a
breach of his public duty, except, perhaps, in States where, as in New
Jersey, the husband, in such an action, may by statute add claims in his
own right to those of his wife.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of New Jersey.
This was an action of assumpsit by Jerome B. Pollard, a
citizen of Illinois, against the New Jersey Railroad and Transportation Company, a general carrier of passengers, for damages sustained by him in consequence of an injury to his wife,
Sarah H. Pollard, caused by the negligence of the defendant
while she was a passenger on its road, having a ticket from New
York to Chicago, purchased for her by her husband.
The defendant, among other defences, pleaded a former recovery, setting out the record of a judgment in assumpsit in a former
action in the same court, in which said Pollard and wife were
plaintiffs and said company was defendant. The plea then
sets out the contract for the transportation of said Sarah, the
breach thereof and the judgment thereon, and avers that, before
this writ was signed, said judgment was recovered by the said
plaintiffs; that the promises and undertakings for the non-performance of which said judgment was recovered are the same
promises and undertakings mentioned in the declaration in this
action and none other; that said judgment still remains in
full force, not having been reversed.
To this plea the plaintiff demurred. The demurrer having
been overruled and judgment rendered for the defendant,
Pollard sued out this writ of error.
ir. Albert A. Abbott for the plaintiff in error.
A former recovery concludes the parties only as to the facts
necessary to uphold it. It must appear that the claim in the
pending action was litigated, or that the party was bound to
present it in the former action; and that the matters which it

POLLARD V. RAILROAD C0.

[Slip. Ct.

involves were legitimately within the issue, and necessarily and
directly passed upon by the jury. The same evidence must be
sufficient to support both actions. Phillipsv. Berick, 16 Johns.
(N. Y.) 187; People v. .ohnson, 88 N. Y. 65; Barwell v.
Knight, 51 Barb. (N. Y.) 267; Boyce v. Burt, 42 id. 663;
Slauson v. Engelhart, 34 id. 202; Manny v. Harris,2 Johns.
(N. Y.) 30; Stowell v. Chamberlain,60 N. Y. 272; -Douglass
v. Ireland, 73 id. 107.
The damages claimed by the present plaintiff were not
claimed, and could not have been recovered, in the former
action. Lewis et ux. v. Babcock, 18 Johns. (N. Y.) 443 ; Bussell et ux. v. Come, 1 Salk. 119; Holmes v. Wood, 2 Wils. 424;
Whitcomb v. Barre, 37 Vt. 148; Kavanaugh v. Janesville,
24 Wis. 618 ; Hooper v. Haskell, 56 Me. 251 ; 1 Chitty, P1.
85, 16th Am. ed.
The statute of New Jersey (Nixon's Dig. 4th ed. p. 735)
affords no exception to this point. It relates to actions ex
delicto only. In this connection see Brockbane v. Railroad
Company, 7 H. & N. 834.
A former recovery is binding only upon parties or their
privies, who have a mutual or successive relationship to the
same right or thing. It concludes the parties only in the
character and as to the right in which they sue or are sued.
Bigelow, Estoppel (2d ed.), p. 65; Rathbone v. Hooney,
58 N. Y. 467.
The present plaintiff was a party to the former action, not
in his own right, but in the right of his wife; and he was there
joined as a party only because of their relationship. They
had no joint right to recover for the damages which the present
plaintiff alone sustained.
Mr. J. W. Scudder, contra.
AIR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
A judgment in an action of assumpsit, brought by a husband
and wife, on a contract by a carrier of passengers to carry the
wife safely, for injuries to the wife while being carried, is a
bar to another action of assumpsit on the same contract, by the
husband alone, to recover for the same injuries. A different rule

Oct. 1879.]

JONES V. CLIFTON.

prevails when the action is in tort against the carrier for'a
breach of his public duty, except, perhaps, in States like New
Jersey, where by statute the husband may, in such an action,
add claims in his own right to those of his wife. Rev. Laws
N. J. 851, sect. 22.
Judgment affirmed.

JONES v. CLIFTO1T.
1. Unless existing claims of creditors are thereby impaired, a voluntary settlement of property made by a husband upon his wife is not invalid.
2. The technical reasons of the common law arising from the unity of husband
and wife, which would prevent his conveying the property directly to her
for a valuable consideration, as upon a contract or purchase, have long
since ceased to operate in the case of his voluntary transfer of it as a settlement upon her.
3. The intervention of trustees, in order that the property may be held as her
separate estate beyond his control or interference, though formerly held to
be indispensable, is no longer required.
4. His reservation of a power of revocation or appointment to other uses does
notimpair the validity or efficiency of the conveyance in transferring the
property to her, to hold until such power shall be executed; nor does it
tend to create an imputation upon his good faith and honesty in the transaction.
5. Such a power does not, in the event of his bankruptcy, pass to his assignee.

the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Kentucky.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
APPEAL from

.Mr. Benjamin H. Bristow and Hr. James A. Beattie for the
appellant.
MA.r. Martin Bijur, contra.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.,

This is a suit by Stephen E. Jones, assignee in bankruptcy
of Charles H. Clifton, to set aside two deeds executed by the
latter to his wife, and to compel a transfer of the property embraced in them to the complainant. Clifton married in 1870,
and was possessed at the time of a large estate. Previously to
vo.

x1.

15

