BUTTERFIELD V. SMITH.

[Sup. Ot.

The court finds that the final balance of $2,115.25 was made
up of these uncollected taxes, for which he was still responsible, and was not for any money actually received by the collector.
Counsel for the government argue against this conclusion.
But whether sound or not, it was a question of fact on which
the finding of that court cannot be reversed here; and its j udgment is accordingly

Affirmed.

BUTTERFIELD V. SMITH.
An executor charged himself in the inventory of the estate of the testator with

a note payable to the latter and secured by mortgage. His accounts were
settled on that basis. An administrator with the will annexed subsequently
brought suit to foreclose the mortgage. Held, 1. That the probate record
showing the inventory and the order for distributing the assets of the testator
is not conclusive evidence that the note has been paid. 2. That an executor's
settlement when adjudicated binds only the parties thereto.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Kansas.
This suit was brought, Oct. 26, 1877, by Mary A. Smith,
administratrix de bonis non, with the will annexed, of the
estate of Julius C. Wright, deceased, to foreclose a mortgage
made by Daniel M. Adams and wife to secure a note for
$5,000 to said Wright. The latter died in 1874. His will, by
which he appointed George B. Wright his executor, was admitted to probate, and the executor qualified. In an inventory
of the estate this note was included as part of the assets. In
April, 1875, the executor made application to the court for a
final settlement. In his accounts he charged himself with the
full amount of the inventory, and after the allowance of the
proper credits, a balance was found in his hands which was
ordered to be distributed in a specified manner, according to
the terms of the will, but a balance of $6,840.25, one share,
was left in his hands with directions "to invest for Charles
Wright, or pay the money pursuant to the will." The executor
died in 1877. The complainant, shortly after her appointment

Oct. 1879.]

BUTTERFIELD V. SMITH.

as such administratrix, commenced this suit, to which Adams
and wife, and Oscar H. and Andrew J. Butterfield, with others,
were made defendants. Adams and wife did not answer, but
as to them the bill was taken as confessed. The Butterfields
answered that they were the owners of the mortgaged property,
and then, by way of defence to the mortgage, set up - 1,that
they were informed and believed that the note and mortgage
sued on were not the property of the estate of Julius C.
Wright, but that the same were the property of Adams, the
mortgagor, and were executed by him for the purpose of cheating and defrauding his creditors, and especially the appellants;
and, 2, that the note sued on had been paid to George P.
Vright, executor, " as appears by the inventory and his final
settlement, copies of which are hereto attached, marked exhibits A and B." A decree was passed in favor of the complainant. The Butterfields then appealed to this court.
31e. Alfred Ennis and 31r. C. A. Sperry for the appellants.
The settlement of the executor has the force and effect of a
judgment. The only duty of the appellee was to see that the
money was properly distributed pursuant to the order entered
by the court when the settlement was made. The assets, including the note and mortgage in controversy, had been previously
and fully administered. Brown v. Brown, 53 Barb. (N. Y.)
217; Campbell v. Thacher, 54 id. 382; State v. Stephenson, 12
Mo. 182; Picot v. Biddle, 35 id. 29; Williams, Adm'r, v. Petticrew, 62 id. 461 ; Sheets et al. v. .Kirtley,id. 417; Tate v. Norton,
94 U. S. 746 ; Musick v. Beebe, 17 Kan. 47 ; Singleton v. Garrett, 23 Miss. 196; Lambeth v. -Elder,44 id. 81.
Mr. G. C. Clemens, contra.
Mn. CH=, JUSTICE WAITE, after stating the case, delivered the opinion of the court.
No proof was put in on either side. The first defence, therefore, was clearly not sustained. Adams, the mortgagor, by not
answering the bill, admitted the validity of the note, and the
executor of the mortgagee, by charging himself with the note
as part of the assets and settling his accounts on that basis,
showed that he supposed the debt to be a valid one in the
hands of the testator.

COWDREY V. VANDENBURGH.

[Sup. 0t.

As to the second defence, it is claimed that the probate
records attached as exhibits to the answer, showing the inventory and distribution, are conclusive evidence that the debt
has been paid. Undoubtedly, final settlements of administra,tors and executors, when adjudicated, have the force and effect
of judgments as between the parties to such settlements; but
neither Adams nor these appellants were parties to this settlement, which concluded the executor and distributees, but no
one else. Nothing is more common than for an executor or an
administrator to charge himself with debts due the estate
before they are collected, and thus expedite a final settlement.
It would be dangerous to hold that, as between the executor
or administrator and the debtor, such a settlement was conclusive evidence of the actual payment of the debt and the discharge of the debtor. The question presented by the answer
is not whether the estate now owns the note secured by the
mortgage, if it be still unpaid, but whether it has been paid.
Decree affirmed.

COWDREY V. VA±NDENBURGH.
1. Except where the original owner of a non-negotiable demand which he has
indorsed in blank is estopped from asserting his original claim thereto, the
purchaser thereof from any party other than such owner takes only such
rights as the latter has parted with.
2. Semble, that if the pledgee of such a demand writes a Sormal assignment to
himself over the blank indorsement made by the pledgor, and in that form
sells it to a third party for value, the pledgor is, as against such third party,
estopped from asserting ownership,thereto.
APPEAL from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
This was a bill in equity, filed by J. W. V. Vandenburgh,
H. L. Crawford, and L. S. Filbert, trading as J. W. V. Vandenburgh & Co., against Rudolph Blumenburgh, to compel the
surrender of a certain certificate, of which the following is a

copy:

-

