BRODER V. WATER CO.

[Sup. Ot.

BRODER v. WATER CoMvANY.
A., a water and mining company, constructed in 1853, over public land in California, a canal, and its right, which it has ever since exercised, to use the water
for mining, agricultural, and other purposes has been uniformly recognized
by the local customs, laws, and the decisions of the courts of that State. B.
is now the owner of lands through which the canal runs. He acquired title
to one portion of them by a pre-emption settlement made after the passage of

the act of July'26, 1866 (14 Stat. 251), and to another portion under the grant
mad eto the Central Pacific Railroad Company, by the amended Pacific Railroad Act of July 2, 1864. 13 Stat. 356. In his suit against A., B. seeks the
recovery of damages, and also prays that the canal may be declared a nuisance, and as such abated. Held, 1. That B.'s title under the pre-emption

laws is subject to A.s right of way under said act of 1866. 2. That said act
expressly confirmed to the owners of such canals a pre-existing right, wlich
the government had ly its policy theretofore recognized. A. had, therefore,

t

within the meaning of said act of 1864, a "lawful claim" to the continued
use of the water, which was not defeated or impaired by the grant of the
lands to said railroad company.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of California.
The facts of the case and the legislation bearing upon them
are set out in the opinion of the court.

Mr. John

. rcKune for the plaintiff in error.
Mhr. A. P. Catlin, Hr. S. Shellabarger,and MJ1r. J.M. Wilson,
contra.
MR. JUSTICE MmLLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The Natoma Water and Mining Company owns a canal for
conducting water and distributing the same for mining, agricultural, and other uses, which is some fifteen miles long. It
was completed in the year 1853, and since then has been in
constant and successful operation under the control and in the
possession of the company. Its cost was about $200,000. The
court of the first instance on the trial of this cause found also
as a fact that the canal and branches have, ever since their
construction, been uniformly acknowledged and recognized by
the local customs, laws, and the decisions of the courts of the
State of California, in which they lie, and that the land covered by them is indispensable to their use. At the time they
were finished, and for many years after, in fact up to the passage of the Pacific Railroad Acts of 1862 and 1864, the land

'Oct. 1879.]

BRODER V. WATER Co.

through which they ran was the public property of the United
States. A portion of it is included in the grant made by that
act to what has since, by change of name and consolidation
of corporate franchises, become the Central Pacific Railroad
Company, and the plaintiff in error, by proper conveyance from
said company, has become the owner of it. A small part of it is
traversed by the canal, and be brought this action in the proper
court of that State against said water and mining company, to
have the canal declared a nuisance and abated, and to recover
$12,000 damages on account of its maintenance on his land.
The case was submitted to the court, which found the facts
we have stated, and others that will be referred to.
The inception of the title of plaintiff to the land described
in his petition, other than that derived from the railroad company, was a declaratory statement for pre-emption, filed Aug.
6, 1866, by himself for one tract, and a similar statement filed
Sept. 14, 1866, by his brother, Jacob Broder, for another. But
prior to either of these dates, to wit, on the 26th of July of the
same year, Congress enacted a law, the purpose of which was
to deal with the rights of miners who had theretofore, without
objection, and with the tacit encouragement of the United
States, discovered, developed, and mined the public%lands. 14
Stat. 251. The ninth section of that act contains this declaration : "That wherever, by priority of possession, rights to the
use of water for mining, agricultural, manufacturing, or other
purposes, have vested and accrued, and the same are recognized
and acknowledged by the local customs, laws, and the decisions
of courts, the possessors and owners of such vested rights shall
be maintained and protected in the same; and the right of way
for the construction of ditches and canals, for the purposes
aforesaid, is hereby acknowledged and confiried." p. 253.
As to the canal of the defendant, so far as it ran at that date
through the land of the United States, this act was an unequivocal grant of the right of way, if it was no more. As the
plaintiff's right to the lands patented to him and his brother
commenced subsequently to this statute, he took the title subject to this right of way, and cannot now disturb it.
In reference to his lands held under conveyance from the
railroad company, it might be a question of some difficulty

BRODER V. WATER CO.

[Sup. at.

whether the right was so far vested in that company before the
passage of this act of 1866, that the latter would be ineffectual
as regards these lands. But we do not think that the defendant
is under the necessity of relying on that statute.
It is the established doctrine of this court that rights of
miners, who had taken possession of mines and worked and
developed them, and the rights of persons who had constructed
canals and ditches to be used in mining operations and for
purposes of agricultural irrigation, in the region where such
artificial use of the water was an absolute necessity, are rights
which the government had, by its conduct, recognized and encouraged and was bound to protect, before the passage of the
act of 1866. We are of opinion that the section of the act
which we have quoted was rather a voluntary recognition of a
pre-existing right of possession, constituting a valid claim to its
continued use, than the establishment of a new one. This subject has so recently received our attention, and the grounds on
which this construction rests are so well set forth in the following cases, that they will be relied on without further argument:
Atchison v. -Peterson, 20 Wall. 507; Basey v. Gallagher, id.
670; Forbes v. Gracey, 94 U. S. 762; Trennison v. .irk, 98 id.
453.
We turn now to the act of July 2, 1864 (13 Stat. 356), which
makes the final grant to the Pacific railroad companies, the
acceptance of which by the companies bound them to its terms,
and we find in sect 4, which enlarges the grant of lands made
by the act of 1862, this clause of reservation from the general
terms of the grant: "Any lands granted by this act, or the act
to which this is an amendment, shall not defeat or impair any
pre-emption, homestead, swamp-land, or other lawful claim, nor
include any government reservation or mineral lands, or the
improvements of any bonafide settler on any lands returned or
denominated as mineral lands, and the timber necessary to support his said improvements as a miner or agriculturist." p. 358.
We have had occasion to construe a very common clause of
reservation in grants to other railroad companies, and in aid of
other works of internal improvements, and in all of them we
have done so in the light of the general principle that Congress,
in the act of making these donations, could not be supposed t6

Oct. 1879.]

BRODER V. WATER

CO.

exercise its liberality at the expense of pre-existing rights,
which, though imperfect, were still meritorious, and had just
claims to legislative protection.
See Wolcott v. DesMoines
Company, 5 Wall. 681; Williams v. Baker, 17 id. 144; Leavenworth, Lawrence, & Galveston Railroad Co. v. United States,
92 U. S. 733.
In construing the grant to the Pacific railroad companies
this principle is eminently applicable. The lands were vastly
greater in extent than those embraced in any previous grant,
and surrounded by much more varied circumstances. The
number and diversified character of the interests which might
be affected largely exceeded any with which Congress had
theretofore dealt.
Hence we have in the clause of reservation a much more liberal and extended protection of pre-existing rights than in the
reservation clause which had become a formula in previous
grants.
Not only are prior reservations made by the government, and
rights of pre-emption excepted, but the improvements of bona
fide settlers on land returned or denominated mineral lands,
and the timber necessary to support the miners' improvements,
and any other lawful claim, are unaffected by the grant. Of
course, this means any honest claim evidenced by improvements
or other acts of possession.
The defendant had been in possession of the claim in question
for twelve years when this act was passed, and had expended
$200,000 upon it. It was of great utility, nay necessity, to a
large agricultural and mining interest, and we cannot doubt
that it was of the class which this section declared should not
be defeated by the grant which Congress was then making.
As the judgment of the Supreme Court of California was
based on this principle, it is
Affirmed.

