Oct. 1879.]

MAY V. SLOAN.

power in any other person to be thus executed. Nor is the
power a chose in action. It did not, therefore, in our judgment, constitute assets of the bankrupt which passed to his
assignee.
.Decree affirmed.

MAY V. SLOAN.
1. The word "trade" in its broadest signification includes not only the business
of exchanging commodities by barter, but that of buying and selling for
money, or commerce and traffic generally.
2. Where, to effect a settlement of all his indebtedness to B. and C., who each
held a mortgage upon his lands and personal property, A. entered into an
agreement in writing with them, containing sundry provisions, by one of
which C. stipulated "not to interfere with any bonafJie trades made by A.,
so far as any of the mortgaged property is concerned, provided the trades
have been carried out in good faith and completed," - Held, that a sale by
A. to B. of a portion of the lands, which was known to C., and evidenced
by an instrument under seal, was a trade within the .meaning of the agree.
ment.
3. Where an agreement for the sale of lands, alleged in a bill in equity praying
for specific performance, is denied by the answer, the defendant, where
there is no written evidence of such agreement, may, at the hearing, insist
on the Statute of Frauds as effectually as if it had been pleaded.
4. Where the record shows that the appellee, who raises the objection that the
lands which are the matter in controversy are not of sufficient value to
give this court jurisdiction, bought them for 521,000, and by virtue of that
purchase claims them here, and the prayer for appeal, which is verified by
the affidavit of the appellant, shows that they are worth more than $5,000,
- Hdd, that this court has jurisdiction.

from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Florida.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
APPEAL

.Mtr. Samuel Field .Pillipsfor the appellant.
Mr. Charles N. West for the appellee.
Mr. JUSTicE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a bill in equity filed in the Circuit Court for the
Second Judicial Circuit of Florida, by Andrew M. Sloan, against
Asa May, to compel the latter to convey to the complainant a
certain tract of land situated in Jefferson County, Florida,

MAY V. SLOAN.

[Sup. t

known as the Alvin May place, containing about eleven hundred acres; and for an injunction against his attempting to
obtain possession of the land pending the suit. The case was
removed into the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Florida, and the appeal is from the decree
of that court, rendered in favor of Sloan.
A preliminary point is made as to the jurisdiction of this
court, on the ground that it does not appear that the matter
in dispute exceeds the value of $5,000. This objection is
untenable. It does appear from the record that the appellee,
who raises the objection, purchased the land for the price of
$21,000; and it is by virtue of that purchase that he claims it
in this suit. Then again, the petition of appeal to this court,
which is verified by the affidavit of the appellant, distinctly
avers that the matter in dispute is a large body of land worth
more than $5,000 in value. No attempt is made to controvert
this allegation, and we think that it sufficiently appears that
the case is within our jurisdiction.
The facts as set forth in the bill and answer, and developed
by the proofs, are substantially as follows: In 1868, Asa May, the appellant, sold and conveyed to his
relative and friend, Alvin May, a plantation in Jefferson County,
Florida, called the Asa May place, consisting of about twelve
hundred acres of land, for the sum of $14,848 in gold; and
received in payment eight sealed notes, payable at intervals of
one year, with interest, seven of which were for $2,000 each,
and the eighth for the balance. To secure the payment of these
notes, Alvin gave to Asa May a mortgage on the property sold,
and on two other plantations adjoining, one called the Picolata
place, containing six hundred and fifty acres, and the other
called the Alvin May place (being the property in question),
containing about eleven hundred acres. Various payments
were made on this debt, amounting, as Alvin May testified, to
from $9,000 to $11,000.
Alvin May, besides the above property, became the ostensible owner of several other plantations in the vicinity, and became indebted to A. M. Sloan & Co., commission merchants in
Savannah, for money lent and advanced and supplies furnished,
to an amount exceeding $50,000. To secure this indebtedness,

Oct. 1879.]

MAY V. SLOAN.

in January, 1872, he gave to Sloan & Co. three notes, one for
$16,831.28, one for $18,777.14, and one for $20,696.78, payable respectively on the first days of January, 1873, 1874, and
1875; and executed to Sloan & Co. a mortgage on the same
property previously mortgaged to Asa May, and on several
other tracts of land, namely, one called the Elbow tract, containing six hundred and sixty acres, one called the Arendell
tract, containing over a thousand acres, one called the McCain
place, containing about eleven hundred acres; and a small tract
of one hundred and fifty acres, called the S. F. May place.
Both mortgages embraced all the personal property on the lands
mortgaged, or that might thereafter be thereon.
Alvin May being unable to pay this indebtedness, in May,
1873, Asa May and Andrew M. Sloan (who succeeded to the
rights of A. M. Sloan & Co.) severally brought suits against
him, and recovered simultaneous judgments, upon which executions were duly issued. Asa May's judgment was for ,$5,782.15;
but the whole balance due to him for principal and interest
on his mortgage, including the amount of said judgment, was
upwards of $13,000. Sloan's judgment was for $13,811.66,
being only upon the note given to his firm which had first matured, - the other two notes not being due. Subsequent judgments were obtained by other parties, and executions sued out
thereon.
To obviate the necessity of an actual levy on his property,
and to save the expense of advertising, Alvin May, in October,
1873, agreed with the sheriff that no part of the property should
be removed, that the sale might take place on the first Monday
of December, 1873, and that the proceeds should be distributed
according to the rights of the creditors. The sale was afterwards postponed to the first Monday of January, 1874. It was
understood that the property to be sold would be the three
plantations included in Asa May's mortgage and all the personal property, including mules, farming utensils, and crops. It
seems that Sloan had a lien for advances on the crop, independent of his execution and mortgage. The reason why the several
tracts covered by Sloan's mortgage, and not covered by Asa
May's, were not proposed to be sold at the same time does not
clearly appear, except that the title to the McCain place had

MAY V. SLOAN.

[Sup. 0 t.

failed, and the Arendell place, as will be seen, was allowed to
be retained by Alvin May free of Sloan's mortgage. The other
two tracts, namely, the Elbow tract, and the S. F. May place,
may have been reserved for the remaining notes held by Sloan
which were not yet due.
On the 13th of December, 1873, Alvin May, the debtor, and
Andrew M. Sloan, made the following written agreement: "State of Florida, County of Jefferson: Memorandum made and
entered into this thirteenth day of December, A.D. 1873, by and
between Alvin May and Andrew M. Sloan, relative to the sale of
the lands and personal property hereinafter specified.
"The said May, in consideration of one dollar, in hand paid, of
twenty-one thousand dollars to be paid by the said Sloan, bargains
and sells to the said Sloan the lands owned by him in said county,
known as the Lang place, the Gamble eighth, the Harvey forty, and
twenty acres belonging to the Gorman eighth, and the Murray land,
comprising eleven hundred acres, more or less; also, six mules, one
thousand bushels of corn, one four-horse and one two-horse wagon,
the said lands comprising the home settlement, the house formerly
occupied by the said Alvin May, and the other tenements and improvements thereon. The said May is to give a good title to the
same, and the same is to sell in such way as to make the title perfect at sheriff's sale, if necessary, to satisfy the judgments now upon
record, or mortgages now existing, and the payments are to be made
upon the claims existing against the said May, and in favor of the
said Sloan. The said Sloan is to have possession immediately, and
the said May is to vacate the houses by the first day of January, or
sooner, if possible.
"Witness our hands and seals, this 13th of December, A.D. 1878.
"A. M. SLOAN. [SEAL.]
"ALvix MAY.

[sEAL.]

"Signed, sealed, and delivered in our presence:
"A. DENHAm.
]k. IPALMER."
M

It is conceded that the lands which form the subject of this
agreement constituted the Alvin May place, now the subject of
controversy, and were included in Asa May's mortgage.
The evidence establishes, we think, that, in pursuance of this
agreement, Sloan did take possession of portions of the property

Oct. 1879.]

v. SLOAN.
8MAY

on the 1st of January, 1874, and has ever since continued to
occupy the same.
On the 5th of January, the day before the sale was to take
place, Asa May, Alvin May, and Andrew M. Sloan had a meeting at the office of Mr. Pasco, an attorney at Waukenab, in the
neighborhood of the property, and entered into the following
agreement: -

".Memorandum of Propositions to Alvin Nay by Asa May and
A. . S7oan, relative to Settlement of Indebtedness.
"The property subject to the mortgages and execution of the
said May and Sloan is to be sold on the first Monday in January,
1874, under the executions against Alvin May. Unless there are
other purchasers ready to bid the amount of Asa May's claim, he is
to buy in the property for his own use.
"If Asa May buys the property, he agrees that if Alvin May and
wife will relinquish all right and title, including her right of dower,
to the property sold, that the Arendell plantation shall be given up
to Alvin May; that Asa May will pay up or guarantee the payment
of the balance due to Arendell's creditors on the Arendell place, the
said amount not to exceed $3,000 at the present time; and that
the said Asa May and Sloan will make no further claim to the
said place, and will permit the title to rest in Alvin May or his
wife.
"Asa May and Sloan bind themselves to make no further personal
claim upon Alvin May on account of the mortgage and judgment
debts of theirs against him; Asa May agrees to let Alvin May have
mules of those bought in, and
bushels of corn, and
pounds of fodder, to enable him to work the Arendell place,
the value of the mules to be deducted from the $3,000. Alvin May
is to give peaceable possession of the property as soon as possible,
so as to enable Asa May to proceed at once to make his arrangements for the coming year.
"Alvin May is to bring up a memorandum of all the property
subject to the mortgage and executions against him, early on the
morning of the sale, and is to get in as many as possible of the
mules sold by him and not paid for, or paid for only in part. The
amount of $3,000 embraces the entire amount to be paid by Asa
May, whether it is paid on the land, in mules, or in any other
manner. Asa May agrees not to interfere with any bona fide
trades made by Alvin May, so far as any of the mortgaged property

[Sup. Ct.

MAY v. SLOAN.

is concerned, provided the trades have been carried out in good
faith, and completed.
"Witness our hands and seals, this fifth day of January, A.D.
1874.
"As& MAY.

[SEAL.]

"A. M. SLOAN.
"ALvn MAY.

[sEAL.]
[sEAL.]

"Executed in our presence:

"A.
"S.

DExHAm.
PASCO."

The last clause of this agreement constitutes one of the principal grounds of the present controversy.
On the 6th of January, 1874, sale took place under the
executions. Asa May bid off the three tracts of land covered
by his mortgage at fifty cents per acre; namely, the Asa May
place, the Picolata place, and the Alvin May place; also nine
mules, one pony, one mare, three two-horse wagons, one sixhorse wagon, one log-cart, a sugar-mill, and a buggy and
harness. Sloan bid off the fodder, a four-horse wagon, a cotton-gin, and two sugar-kettles. One Whitfield bid off fifteen
hundred bushels of corn, which he afterwards surrendered to
Sloan under the latter's plantation lien.
The proceeds of the sale of the lands, mules, plantation
implements, &c., amounting to about $3,000, were applied to
Asa May's mortgage; and the proceeds of the sale of the corn
and fodder, amounting to about $1,260, were applied to Sloan's
plantation lien for advances. It does not appear that any
money passed; the application of the proceeds of sale was
made by simply crediting the amounts. Sloan received the
articles which had been sold to him by Alvin May by the agreement of Dec. 13, 1873, though the mules and one of the
wagons were bid off by Asa May, who afterwards purchased
the mules and the corn and fodder from Sloan. The sheriff
executed a deed to Asa May for the real estate in accordance
with the sale.
The object of this suit is to compel Asa May to convey to
Sloan, the complainant, the Alvin May place according to
what he alleges was the agreement and understanding between
the parties, and the intent and meaning of the last clause in
the agreement of Jan. 5, 1874.

Oct. 1879.]

MAY V. SLOAN.

If the case depended upon the parol agreement set up by the
complainant, whereby he claims that Asa May bound himself
to convey the land to him, no relief could be granted on this
bill. The Statute of Frauds would be a complete bar. The
defendant in his answer denies that any such agreement was
made. Such a denial is as effective for letting in the defence
as if the Statute of Frauds had been pleaded. Sugden, Vendors and Purchasers, 150, c. 4, sect. 6, par. 5.
This renders it unnecessary to examine minutely the testimony on the question thus put in issue by the parties. Had
the complainant succeeded in proving such an agreement, it
could not have availed him. But the fact is, that he did not
succeed in making such proof. The evidence is conflicting on
the subject. The fact being denied in the answer, it would
have required evidence tantamount to the testimony of two
witnesses to establish it; whilst we have only that of the complainant himself, in which he is contradicted by the defendant
and by Alvin May and Pasco, the attorney.
The question must stand, then, on the construction to be
given to the written agreement of Jan. 5, 1874, in view of the
surrounding circumstances and the acts of the parties. Does
the last clause of that agreement by its terms embrace the
transaction contained in the contract made by Alvin May and
Sloan on the 13th of December, 1873? Was that transaction
a "trade" made by Alvin May relating to the mortgaged
property, within the meaning of the terms? Was it a "trade"
carried out in good faith and completed ?
The word " trade," in its broadest signification, includes not
only the business of exchanging commodities by barter, but
the business of buying and selling for money, or commerce
and traffic generally. There is nothing in the manner in which
it is used in the clause in question to limit its meaning. Asa
May was to buy in the property for his own use. This was
the general purport of the agreement. But it was added that
"Asa May agrees not to interfere with any bona fide trades
made by Alvin May, so far as any of the mortgaged property
is concerned, provided the trades have been carried out in
good faith and completed." Now certainly the agreement of
December 13, between Alvin May and Sloan, was a trade,

MAY V. SLOAN.

[Sup. Ct.

within the broad meaning of the term. It was a trade relating to a portion of the mortgaged property. It appears to have
been made for full consideration and in good faith. Asa May,
when put on the stand, although he denied that by the clause in
question he intended to confirm or to agree to carry out the
agreement of December 13, yet he could not deny that he knew
of its existence; and Pasco, the common attorney of the parties,
knew all about it, and had it in his possession when the agreement of January 5 was made in his office. It cannot be said,
therefore, that it was a secret agreement, withheld from the
knowledge of Asa May, or that any fraud or bad faith was
practised upon him in relation to it. It was also a completed
agreement, so far as it could be completed without the execution sale itself, which was contemplated as part of the means
of carrying it out. The title was to be made good in that way
if necessary, and it cannot be disputed that it was necessary.
The weight of evidence also is, that the sale had been carried
into effect by delivery of possession by Alvin May to Sloan.
It is true that as to a portion of the place there is conflicting
testimony on this point. Asa May, after the sale, worked a
portion of it; though it is not disputed that Sloan was in
possession of the residue. In this connection the conduct of
the parties in relation to the mules and other personal property
included in the agreement of December 13 cannot be overlooked. Although bid off by Asa May, by whose mortgage it
was covered, yet Sloan's claim to it was respected, and Asa
May soon afterwards actually purchased the mules from Sloan.
If we look to the surrounding circumstances existing at the
time, it will be difficult to resist the conclusion that the sale by
Alvin May to Sloan of the property in question was one of the
trades to be respected by Asa May. At the time of the slieriff's sale he had already received some $10,000 from Alvin
May on the principal and interest of the purchase-money for
the place he had sold him, and there was about $14,000 still
due. By the sheriff's sale and the agreement of Jan. 5, 1874,
he not only got back the original Asa May place, which was
all the property he had ever parted with, but the Picolata
place adjoining, containing over six hundred and fifty acres,
which is stated in the bill, and is not denied, to be a valuable

Oct. 18T9.]

MAY V. SLOAN.

tract of land. It is true that he agreed to give Alvin May an
additional $3,000; but it must be recollected that he also got
a considerable personal property, the full amount of which
does not appear, and a release of dower from Alvin's wife.
This was Asa May's situation, and the result of the agreement
as it affected him, if construed as we have suggested.
Now, what were the circumstances of Sloan's case? His debt
was between 650,000 and $60,000. Besides the lands covered
by Asa lay's mortgage, he had a mortgage on the McCain place
of eleven hundred acres, on the Arendell place of a thousand
acres, on the Elbow tract containing six hundred and sixty acres,
and on the S. F. May place containing one hundred and fifty
acres. He also had a lien on the crop. The McCain place failed
in the matter of the title; and in the agreement of Jan. 5, 1874,
he agreed to give up to Alvin May all claim on the Arendell
tract, to release him from all personal obligation, and to allow
$21,000 (its full value) for the Alvin May place; leaving still
due to him between $30,000 and 840,000, with only the Elbow
tract and S. F. May place as security. Now, why should he
have given up the Arendell tract, and all personal claim
against Alvin May? And why should this be stipulated for
in an agreement between him and Alvin May and Asa May ?an agreement which is entitled "Memorandum of propositions
to Alvin May by Asa May and A. M. Sloan, relative to settlement of indebtedness." What did he get? What came to
him in the transaction ? Nothing, - absolutely nothing, unless
the clause in question, at the end of the paper, is to be construed as embracing the agreement of December 13, by which
lie was to have the Alvin May place at $21,000, on account of
his claim.
In the light of all these circumstances, it is hard to resist the
conclusion that the word " trade " in the agreement of Jan. 5,
1874, was used by the parties in its broadest signification, so
as to include any bargain or sale. As such a meaning of the
term is admissible, we think that the circumstances and acts
of the parties show that it must have been intended. This
being conceded, it plainly became the duty of Asa May, after
having purchased the property, to convey the land in question
to the appellee.
-Decreeaffirmed.

