Oct. 1879.]

OWRIGHT

v.

NAGLE.

in legal effect, a bounty was offered to those who imported the
products of that region directly from the countries themselves,
instead of from places west of the Cape.
We see nothing in the act of Congress which is in conflict
with the treaty with Persia. 11 Stat. 709. If the subjects
of Persia export their products directly to the United States,
they are required to pay no more duties here than the "merchants and subjects of the most favored nation." It is only
when their products are first exported to some place west of
the Cape, and from there exported to the United States, that
the additional duty is imposed. Under such circumstances, the
importation into the United States is not, commercially speaking, from Persia, but from the last place of exportation.
Judgment affirmed.

WRIGHT v. NAGLE.
1. This court follows the decision of the Supreme Court of Georgia, that authority to grant the franchise of establishing and maintaining a toll-bridge over
a river where it crosses a public highway in that State, is vested solely
in the legislature, and may be exercised by it, or be committed to such
agencies as it may select.
2. The construction by the State court of a statute under which a court made an
exclusive grant of such franchise within designated limits, upon conditions
which the grantee performed, is not conclusive here upon the question
whether a subsequent conflicting grant impairs the obligation of a contract.
3. The statutes of Georgia confer upon certain courts the power to establish
such bridges, but not to bind the public in respect to its future necessities.
The legislature could, therefore, authorize the erection and maintenance of
another bridge within the limits of the original grant.

E noR to the Supreme Court of the State of Georgia.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
X.r. Pillmore Beall and Mr.0. A. Locitrane for the plaintiffs
in error.
11r. Joel Branham, contra.
M .. Cmx JUSTICE WAiTE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This was a suit in equity brought by Wright and Shorter in

WRIGHT v. NAGLE.

[Sup. Ot.

the Superior Court of Floyd County, Georgia, to restrain the
defendants from continuing and maintaining a toll-bridge across
the Etowah River, at Rome, in that county. The facts are
these: In July, 1851, the Inferior Court of Floyd County
entered into a contract with one H. V. Ml. Miller, by which
the court, for a good and valuable consideration, granted to
Miller and his heirs and assigns for ever, so far as it had authority for that purpose, the exclusive light of opening ferries and
building bridges across the Oostanaula and Etowah Rivers, at
Rome, within certain specified limits. Miller, on his part,
bound himself by certain covenants and agreements appropriate
to such a contract. He afterwards assigned his rights under
the contract, so that when this suit was commenced the
complainants, Wright and Shorter, were the owners. Large
amounts of money were expended in building and maintaining
the required bridges, and the franchise is a valuable one. In
December, 1872, the commissioners of roads and revenue for the
county authorized the defendants to erect and maintain a tollbridge across the Etowah, within the limits of the original grant
to Miller. The bill avers that "the said board of commissioners in the making and conferring of said franchise exercised
legislative powers conferred upon it by the laws of the State;
that the said grant is in the nature of a statute of the legislature; that the same is an infringement of the said grant and
contract made by the said superior (inferior) court to and with
the said H. V. M. Miller, under whom complainants hold,
and impairs the obligation and validity thereof, and is repugnant to the Constitution of the United States, art. 1, sect. 10,
par. 1, which prohibits a State from passing any law impairing
the obligation of contracts; and the complainants pray that the
said graiit to said defendants be by this court annulled and declared void, and the defendants perpetually enjoined from any
exercise of the privileges thereby conveyed and granted."
There is no dispute about the facts, and in the answer it is
expressly stated that the commissioners of roads and revenue
" are vested with legislative, or quasi-legislative, powers and
exclusive powers on this subject, and, therefore, . . . the order

making said bridge and streets public has all the authority,
sanction, and effect of an act of the legislature of the State, and

Oct. 1879.]

WRIGHT V. NAGLE.

cannot be interfered with by the unauthorized and void act of
any public functionary of this State." The parties, by stipulation befoie the hearing, eliminated every thing from the case
except so much as was necessary to obtain "a final and legal
decision upon the main question; to wit, whether or not the
Inferior Court of Floyd County, Georgia, could and did grant
to the complainants, or their assignors, an exclusive fianchise,
such as is set up and claimed in the complainants' bill, and
whether or not, therefore, the subsequent grant of the bridge
franchise, described in the pleadings, by the said board of commissioners to the defendants, is or is not valid, and the right of
complainants to the relief prayed for." It was also agreed
that the defendants had title to the lands on which the piers of
the bridge were built.
The Superior Court decided that the inferior court of the
county had no power to grant Miller any such exclusive right
as was claimed, and for that reason dismissed the bill. This
decision was afterwards affirmed by the Supreme Court of the
State on appeal, and to reverse that judgment this writ of error
was brought.
Accompanying the submission of the case on its merits is a
motion to dismiss because no Federal question is involved.
Before proceeding to consider the questions presented by the
record, we are called upon to dispose of a preliminary motion.
On or before the 6th of December, 1879, the counsel for the
respective parties stipulated, in writing, to submit the case on
printed arguments under the twentieth rule. The plaintiffs in
error ask leave to withdraw their stipulation, and set the cause
down for oral argument when reached. We think their showing in support of that motion is insufficient, and that under the
rule laid down in 3lIuller v. .Dows (94 U. S. 277) the stipulation must be enforced.
We think, also, that the motion to dismiss must be overruled. It is true, the court below disposed of the case by
deciding that the State statutes did not authorize the inferior
court to grant Miller an exclusive right to maintain bridges
within the designated limits, and that in so doing it gave a
construction to a State statute. It is also true that ordinarily
such a construction would be conclusive on us. One excep-

WRIGHT V. NAGLE.

[Sup. Ot.

tion, however, exists to this rule, and that is when the State
court "has been called upon to interpret the contracts of
States, ' though they have been made in the forms of law,' or
by the instrumentality of a State's authorized functionaries in
conformity with State legislation." Jefferson Branch Bank v.
Skelly, 1 Black, 436. It has been decided in Georgia that the
right to receive tolls for the transportation of travellers and
others across a river on a public highway is a franchise which
belongs to the people collectively. Young v. Harrison, 6 Ga.
130. A grant of this franchise from the public in some form is
therefore necessary to enable an individual to establish and
maintain a toll-bridge for public travel. The legislature of the
State alone has authority to make such a grant. It may exercise this authority by direct legislation, or through agencies
duly established, having power for that purpose. The grant
when made binds the public, and is, directly or indirectly, the
act of the State. The easement is a legislative grant, whether
made directly by the legislature itself, or by any one of its
1properly constituted instrumentalities.
Justices of Inferior
Court v. Plank Boad, 14 id. 486. The complainants claim
they have such a grant through the agency of the inferior
court, acting under the authority of the legislature. This is
denied, because, as is insisted, the legislature has not given the
court power to make an exclusive grant. That was the precise
question decided below, and under the exception to the rule
just stated is reviewable here.
If the court erred in construing the statute, and in holding
that there was no contract, then the question is directly presented by the pleadings and the stipulation as to the facts,
whether the subsequent action of the commissioners of roads
and revenue is, in its legal effect, equivalent to a law of the
State impairing the obligation of the contract as it was made.
In this way, it seems to us, a Federal question is raised upon the
record, which gives us jurisdiction.
We, therefore, proceed to consider whether the inferior court
had the power to grant Miller the exclusive right. It certainly
has done so, if the power existed. There is no doubt that the
legislature, under the Constitution of the State in force at the
time, had authority to make such a grant. The only question

Oct. 1879.]

WRIGHT v. NAGLE.

is, whether power for that purpose had been delegated to the
inferior court.
The statutes relied on by the plaintiffs in error as conferring
that authority are: An act of Dec. 1, 1805 (Cobb's Dig. 945), as follows:-'
"The inferior courts in the several counties in this State are
hereby empowered, if they shall deem it necessary, on application
being made, to authorize the establishment of such ferries or bridges
as they may think necessary, other than where ferries and bridges
have already been established by law, and to allow such rates for
crossing thereat as are usual or customary on watercourses of the
same width: Provided,nevertheless, that the legislature shall, at all
times, retain the power of making such alterations in the establishments made by the justices of the inferior courts as to them may
seem proper."
An act of Dec. 19, 1818 (Cobb's Dig. 952) :"SECT. 29. The justices of the infbrior courts of each county, in
this State, or a majority of them, shall have power and authority to
hear and determine all matters which may come before them relative to roads, bridges, &c., as are authorized by law, either in term
time, or while sitting for ordinary purposes, or at any special meeting held for that purpose."
"SECT. 33. The inferior courts shall have power to establish ferries, to rate the toll to be taken, as well those already established
as any which may hereafter be established, within the several
counties within which they may severally reside; and, generally, all
other matters relative to ferries which may, in their judgment, be
of public utility, any law to the contrary notwithstanding."

An act of Dec. 26, 1845 (Cobb's Dig. 958) : "That the justices of the inferior court of the several counties in
this State, or a majority of them, be and they are hereby authorized to contract for the building and keeping in repair of public
bridges for such time and in such way as they may deem most
advisable, either by letting the same to the lowest bidder, hiring
hands for that purpose, or in any other way that to them may
appear right and proper. And should they at any time let the same
to the lowest bidder, that they be authorized to require and receive
the same bond that commissioners now do."

WRIGHT V. NAGLE.

[Sup. Or.

It is conceded that these statutes contain all the authority
th*e inferior court of Floyd County had to make the contract in
question. Exclusive rights to public franchises are not favored.
If gr'anted, they will be protected, but they will never be presumed. Every statute which takes away from a legislature its
power will always be construed most strongly in favor of the
State. These are elementary principles. The question here
is whether the legislature of Georgia conferred on the inferior
courts of its several counties the power of contracting away the
right of the State to establish such ferries and bridges in a
particular locality as the ever-changing wants of the public
should in the progress of time require. In our opinion it did
not. It gave these courts the right to establish ferries or
bridges, but not to tie the hands of the public in respect to its
future necessities. The right to establish one bridge and fix
its rate of toll does not imply a power to bind the State or its
instrumentalities not to establish another in case of necessity.
In fact, the act of 1805, which remained in full force until the
contract with Miller was made, expressly retained power for
the legislature to make such alterations of what might be done
by the courts as should seem to be proper. The act of 1818
gave the courts general power over all matters relative to ferries, and authorized them to hear and determine all matters
which should come before them in relation to roads and bridges;
but there was no express repeal of the proviso of the act of
1805, and there is no such inconsistency between the two acts
as to amount to a repeal by implication. Such being the case,
the original power retained by the legislature over the acts of
the courts in this particular remained in full force. The act of
1845 related only to the building and repairing of such public
bridges as were not owned by private individuals or corporations.
It conferred no new powers in respect to the bargaining away of
public franchises. We see nothing in the case of Shorter v.
Smith (9 Ga. 517) to the contrary of this. All the court there
decided was that an exclusive right had not been granted. The
question of power in the inferior courts to make such a grant
was not involved, and certainly not decided. The language of
the court in the opinion is to be construed with reference to
the question actually under consideration, and should not be

Oct. 1879.]

TRENIER V. STEWART.

extended beyond for any purpose of authority in another and
different case.
Upon the whole, it seems to us that the Supreme Court of
the State was right in its decision, and the judgment is therefore

Affirmed.

TiV.

STEWART.

The concession of certain lands now within the State of Alabama, confirmed
to Nicholas Baudin Sept. 15, 1713, by the then governor of Louisiana (infra,
p. 708), was a complete grant to the donee, and vested in him a perfect title
to them.

EDRROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Alabama.
This was an action of ejeetment brought by the defendants
in error in the Circuit Court of Mobile County, Alabama, for
the recovery of a parcel of land on Mon Louis Island, a triangular tract of over 14,000 acres of land in the lower part of
that county, bounded on the east by Mobile Bay, on the northwest by Fowl River, and on the south by the waters of ther
sound which separates the mainland, of which Mon Louis
Island is a part, from Dauphin Island.
The plaintiffs in proof of their title put in evidence an entry
in American State Papers, vol. iii. pp. 19-20, being a part of
the report of William Crawford, commissioner under the act of
Congress of 1812 and 1813.
"Register of claims to land in the district east of Pearl River in
Louisiana, derived fiom either the French, British, or Spanish
government, which, from the circumstances, require a special
report:"No. 1. By whom claimed: Heirs of Nicholas Baudin.
"Original claimant: Nicholas Baudin.
"Nature of claim and from what authority: French concession.
"Date of claim: 15 Sept., 1713.
"Quantity claimed: Area in arpens, about 14,360.
"Where situated: Fowl River.
"By whom issued: La Mlothe Cadillac.
"Surveyed: No survey.
"Cultivation and inhabitation: Proved from 1804 to 1813."

