Oct. 1879.]

NATIONAL "BANK V. CARPENTER.

was a mistake of the clerk in using a superfluous word. The jury
found a general verdict for the plaintiff. But they found the
value of the goods " eloigned" to have been $7,015.97. The
word "eloigned" was inadvertently used, and it might have
been stricken out. It should have been, and it may be here.
The judgment was entered properly. As the verdict was
amendable in the court below, we will regard the amendment
as made. It would be quite inadmissible to send the case back
for another trial because of such a verbal mistake.
Judgment affirmed.

NATIONAL

BAN]K v. CARPENTER.

1. Where it appears by the complainant's bill that the remedy is barred by lapse
of time, or that by reason of his laches he is not entitled to relief, the defendant may by demurrer avail himself of the olJjection.
2. Under the rules of equity practice established by this court, the complainant
is not entitled, as a matter of right, to amend his bill after a demurrer thereto has been sustained; but the court may, in its discretion, grant him leave
to do so upon such terms as it shall deem reasonable.

3. The order refusing him such leave cannot be reviewed here, if the record
does not show what amendment he desired to make.
4. Wood v. Carpenter(supra, p. 135) reaffirmed.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Indiana.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. Andrew L. Bobinson and Mr. Asa Iglehart for the appellant.
lMr. £9 arles Denby and Mr. James Shackelford, contra.
SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit was brought by the Mercantile National Bank of
the City of Hartford against Willard Carpenter, John Love,
and DeWitt C. Keller. The chief difference between it and
Wood v. Carpenter (supra, p. 185) is that it is in equity, while
that was an action at law. The bill sets out the same facts in
the same way as the declaration, except that the latter alleges a
fraudulent purchase by Keller of a judgment in favor of Wood
MR. JUSTICE

NATIONAL BANK V. CARPENTER.

[Sup. oh.

against Carpenter, while the bill alleges such a purchase of a
judgment in favor of the complainant against him and John
Love. The defendants severally demurred. The demurrers
were sustained, and the complainant asked leave to amend.
Leave was refused and the bill dismissed. The complainant
thereupon appealed to this court.
Our reasoning in the case at law and the authorities there
cited are applicable here. It appears on the face of the bill
that the case which it makes is barred by the Statute of Limitations, and that the excuse of concealment of "the cause of
action" by the defendants is not s"alleged as to avail the complainant. This defect can be taken advantage of by demurrer.
Rhode sland v. Miassachusetts, 15 Pet. 233; iMfaxwell v. -ennedy, 8 How. 210. The objection of laches is also fatally
apparent. Brown v. County of Buena Vista, 95 U. S. 157;
-Duncan v. Eyon, 3 Johns. (N. Y.) Ch.351. The demurrers
of the defendants were, therefore, rightly sustained, and the
bill was properly dismissed.
It is insisted that the complainant was entitled of right to
amend under the 29th of the rules of equity practice established by this court, and that the learned judge below erred in
refusing the leave asked for. That rule has no application
and does not affect the case. It applies only where leave is
asked before a demurrer is allowed. Formerly, upon the allowance of a demurrer to a whole bill, the bill was out of court,
and no subsequent proceeding could be taken in the cause.
1 Daniel, Ch.Pr. 597; 1 Barb. Ch.Pr. 111. The rigor of this
principle was subsequently relaxed. It is unnecessary to pursue the subject further, because the practice in such a state of
things in the courts of the United States is regulated by the
35th rule of equity practice, which is as follows: "If, upon the hearing, any demurrer or plea shall be allowed,
the defendant shall be entitled to his costs. But the court may,
in its discretion, upon motion of the plaintiff, allow him to
amend his bill upon such terms as it shall deem reasonable."
In this case it does not appear what amendment or amendments the appellant desired to make, nor that the court below
in any wise abused the discretion with which it was clothed.
Error must be shown affirmatively. It cannot be presumed.
Decree affirmed.

