Oct. 1879.]

KENNEDY V. CRESWELL.

company on the other. The United States ask for no new decree, but execution because of default in the payment of an
old one. Upon their application the only question is whether
there has been default for the requisite time in the payment of
the coupons filed. The railroad company admits the default,
but insists, in effect, that the United States ought to apply the
coupons to the payment of a debt they owe the company, and
thus cancel the default. This the United States decline to do,
because they claim they do not owe the debt set up by the
company. Clearly this dispute between the parties could not,
even before final decree, be made the subject of a cross-bill,
because it does not grow out of the original suit. A cross-bill
cannot be used to bring in new and distinct matters. Ayers v.
CMdeago, supra, p. 184; Rubber Company v. Goodyear, 9 Wall.
788; Cross v. De VFalle, 1 id. 5. Neither can the petition
be treated as an original and independent suit, for the United
States cannot be sued on contracts except in the Court of
Claims. If the United States had sued the railroad company
on the coupons, other questions might have arisen; but they did
not do so. All they have done has been to file their coupons
with the clerk in order to get execution on their old decree.
Decree affirmed.

KENNEDY V. CRESWELL.
A bill filed by A. for himself and other creditors against B., executor of C., and
the devisees of the latter, alleged that C. was indebted to him, that the personal assets were insufficient to pay the debts, and that B. was paying some
of them in full and leaving others unsatisfied. It prayed for an account of
the personal estate, the application thereof to the payment of the debt, and
the discovery of the real estate whereof C. died seised. The defendants
pleaded in bar that B. had in his hands assets sufficient to pay A.'s claim and
all others. To this plea A. filed a replication. The proofs sustained the allegations of the bill, but showed those of the plea to be untrue. Held, 1. That
A. was entitled to a decree as though the bill had been confessed or admitted.
2. That as by reason of B.'s admission of assets no discovery was required, a
decree against him rendering him individually liable was proper. 3. That
there is nothing in the local law of the District of Columbia or in the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of said District, sitting as a probate court,
inconsistent with these rulings.
41
VOL xx.

KENNEDY V. CRESWELL.

[Sup. ot.

APPEAL from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. Richard T. Herrick and Mr. Martin
appellant.
Mr. -Enoch Totten, contra.

. Morris for the

MR. JUSTIOE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

The appellees filed a bill in equity for themselves and other
creditors against the executor and the devisees of the will of
James C. Kennedy, deceased, praying for an account of the personal estate of the testator, a discovery of his real estate, and
the application thereof to the payment of his debts. The bill
stated that the complainants were the holders of a note of the
testator for $12,000, with interest, which was due and not paid;
that the defendant, Harvey Kennedy, as executor, had proved
the testator's will, and entered upon the execution thereof ;
that the personal property was insufficient to pay the debts,
and that he was paying some debts in full and leaving others
unsatisfied-; and that the testator left a large amount of real
estate, some of which is described and pointed out.
To this bill the defendants filed a plea, the material part of
which is as follows: "That the executor aforesaid has in his hands assets of the
estate of the said James C. Kennedy, deceased, amply sufficient
to pay and discharge the claims of the complainants and all
other claims that have been brought to his notice, and that he
is ready and willing to pay the said claim of the complainants
whenever and as soon as the same shall have been proved and
established by a tribunal of competent jurisdiction according
to law; but the said executor disputes the said claim, and denies the justice and validity thereof, and has for such cause
rejected the same; and the said complainants have not sought
in any manner to enforce the said claim against the said executor and the assets in his hands by proper proceedings at
law:
"Wherefore, these defendants aver and plead the premises in
bar of the complainants' bill; and they pray that the complainants be required to enforce their claim against the said

Oct. 1879.]

O .ENNEDYV. ORESW.ELL.

executor by proper proceedings at law, and they pray also the
judgment of the court whether they (these defendants) should
be compelled to make any further or other answer to the said
bill, and that they be hence dismissed with their reasonable
costs in this behalf wrongfully sustained."
To this plea the complainants filed a replication, and proceeded to prove the note held by them and its non-payment,
and also produced in evidence the accounts filed by the executor in the office of the register of wills and the exceptions
filed by the complainants thereto. In the executor's account
he charged himself with assets to the amount of $31,794.62,
and claimed credit for moneys paid and for commissions to the
amount of $27,014.75, showing a balance in his hands of only
$4,729.87. The defendants offered no testimony, and the court
on final bearing made a decree that the executor should pay to
the complainants the full amount of their claim. From this
decree the executor appealed.
The appellant insists that, according to the rules of equity
pleading, the complainants by taking issue on the plea admitted
its sufficiency; and as the decree was based upon the-admission
of assets contained in the plea, it was an affirmation of its
truth; and therefore it should have been in favor of the defendants, and the bill should have been dismissed.
This argument is very ingenious, but it is not sound. The
defendants not only failed to prove the truth of their plea, but,
on the contrary, the complainants, by the executor's own sworn
accounts, filed in the probate office, proved, so far as such
proof could go, that the plea was untrue. These accounts show
that the executor had not sufficient personal estate in his hands
to pay one-third of the complainants' claim alone. So that
according to the strictest rules of equity pleading the complainants were entitled to a decree in their favor. The executor
may have had sufficient assets in fact; but he did not see fit to
disclose them, or prove that he had them. His admission that
he had assets may be taken against him for the purpose of
charging him with a liability, but it cannot serve him as evidence to prove the truth of his plea. His mere allegation
cannot be received as proof of its own truth where the fact is
directly in issue, and the burden of proof is on him.

KENNEDY V. CRESWELL.

[Sup. at.

Since, then, the complainants were entitled to a decree, the
question is, what decree ? If a defendant plead a false plea,
and it be so found, what is next to be done? Is it to be merely
overruled, and an order made that he answer further, as in case
of overruling a demurrer, or of overruling a plea for insufficiency? This is not the usual course. Having put the plaintiff to the trouble and delay of an issue, the defendant cannot,
after it is found against him, claim the right to file an answer;
although, if the complainant desires a discovery, which the plea
sought to avoid, he may undoubtedly insist upon it. But that
is the complainant's right, not the defendant's. Lord Hardwicke said: "All pleas must suggest a fact; it must go to a
hearing; and if the party does not prove that fact which is
necessary to support the plea, the plaintiff is not to lose the benefit of his discovery, but the court may direct an examination
on interrogatories in order to supply that." Brownsword v.
Edwards, 2 Yes. 243. This statement is adopted by Lord Redesdale, Mr. Beames, and all subsequent writers on equity pleading. Mitf. (4th ed.) 302; Beames, Pleas in Equity, 318;
Story, Eq. Pl., sect. 697. If the plea is found to be false, it
would seem to be just and equitable that the case should stand
as if the defendant had admitted the allegations of the plaintiff. Sir Thomas Plumer states the matter thus: "Supposing
a plea to be correct in form, but proved false, it seems to be
conceived that the course at the hearing is to take it up just as
if there was no answer. That is not correct. Upon a plea
found false the plaintiff is entitled to a decree; and if a discovery is wanted, the defendant is ordered to be examined
upon interrogatories." Wood v. Strickland, 2 Ves. & Bea. 150.
Chancellor Walworth, in a case before him, where the defendant
produced no evidence to establish the truth of his plea, said:
"Where a plea in bar to the whole bill is put in, if the complainant takes issue thereon he admits the sufficiency of the
plea, and leaves nothing in question but the truth thereof. If
at the hearing the plea is found to be true, the bill must be
dismissed. But if the plea is untrue, the complainant will be
entitled to a decree against the defendant in the same manner
as if the several matters charged in the bill had been confessed
or admitted. If a discovery is necessary to enable the corn-

Oct. 1879.]

KENNEDY V. ORESWELL.

plainant to obtain the relief sought for by his bill, the defendant cannot evade answering by putting in a plea which turns
out to be false. In such a case, after the plea is overruled as
false, the complainant may have an order that the defendant,
be examined on interrogatories before a master as to the several matters in relation to which a discovery was sought by the
bill." Dows v. McMichael, 2 Paige (N. Y.), 345.
In the present case, the complainants did not see fit to insist
on a further discovery. Being entitled to a decree pro confesso
as to the principal charges of their bill, and the executor having admitted sufficient assets to pay the debts of the estate,
they were content to take a decree against him for the amount
of the debt. The executor's admission, as we have before said,
was a good ground for charging him with the liability, though
he could not urge it as evidence in support of his plea. And
as an admission of assets renders the executor personally liable,
a decree against him was proper. The usual decree on a creditor's bill is for an account; but, as said by Vice-Chancellor
Wigram in a similar case, "The reason for and the principle of
the usual form of decree have no application where assets are
admitted, for the executor thereby makes himself liable to the
payment of the debt. In such a case, the other creditors cannot be prejudiced by a decree for the payment of the plaintiff's
debt; and the object of the special form of the decree in a
creditor's suit fails. . . I am satisfied that in this case there
Woodgate v.
ought to be a decree for immediate payment."
Field, 2 Hare, 211; Story, Eq. Jur., sect. 548 a. Had it been
contended or shown in this case that the estate of the testator
was insolvent, so as to require a pro rata payment among all
the creditors, there might have been room for the objection
that the ordinary decree was not made. But no such point is
made in the case, and we think that the decree was properly
rendered for the debt of the complainants alone.
As to the objection that the bill was not formally dismissed
as to the devisees, we do not think it can be raised here by
the executor, who alone appealed from the decree.
The point taken by the appellant, that the court below, sitting as a court of equity, had no jurisdiction of the case, is not
well taken. The authorities are abundant and well settled that

]KENNEDY V. CRESWELL.

[Sup. Ct.

a creditor of a deceased person has a right to go into a court
of equity for a discovery of assets and the payment of his debt.
When there, he will not be turned back to a court of law to
establish the validity of his claim. The court being in rightful
possession of the cause for a discovery and account, will proceed to a final decree upon all the merits. Tiompson v. Brown,
4 Johns. (N.Y.) Ch. 619; 1 Story, Eq. Jur., sect. 546; 2 Wins.
Exrs. 1718, 1719. The allegations of the bill in this case were
sufficient to give the court jurisdiction; and the accounts of
the executor show that the complainants had reasonable cause
for making those allegations. They went into the court for
the discovery of assets; and the object of the bill was attained
by the admission of the executor that he had sufficient assets.
It would be strange indeed if that admission could be made a
ground for depriving the court of its jurisdiction. If it could,
the discovery, by proof of assets concealed by the executor,
would have the same effect; and the result would be that a
bill in equity could be defeated by proofs showing that there
was good ground for filing it.
In conclusion, we will state that we have found nothing in
the local law of the District of Columbia, or the jurisdiction of the Probate Court, that is, of the Supreme Court of
the District acting as such, inconsistent with the views expressed.

Decree affirmed.

