Oct. 1879.]

STEWART V. PLATT.

STEWART V. PLATT.
1. A mortgage of goods and chattels in the State of New York, which is not
accompanied by an immediate delivery and followed by an actual and continued possession of them, is void as against the creditors of the mortgagors,
subsequent purchasers, and mortgagees in good faith, if it be executed by a
firm the members of which reside there, unless, pursuant to the statute, it
be filed in the city or town where they respectively reside.
2. A failure so to file it does not impair its validity as between the mortgagee
and the mortgagors, or the assignee in bankruptcy of the latter.
3. Where a controversy arose between the assignee in bankruptcy of the mortgagors, their execution creditors, and the mortgagee, touching the application of the fund in court derived from the sale of the personal property
covered by a mortgage which was not so filed,-Held, that the creditors are
entitled to payment, and that the residue of the fund, the same not being
more than sufficient to satisfy the mortgage debt, belongs to the mortgagee,
and is not chargeable with any expense incurred by the assignee in the
execution of his trust.
4. Where property, conveyed to the wife under a valid settlement made by the
husband, was by their joint act afterwards appropriated to the payment of
one of his creditors, -Held, that subsequent creditors and his assignee in
bankruptcy could not rightfully complain.
6. The bankrupt law does not prohibit an insolvent debtor from dealing with or
exchanging his property before proceedings in bankruptcy are instituted
against him, provided there be no purpose to defraud or delay his creditors,
or to give a preference to any one, and the value of his estate is not thereby
impaired.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the

Southern District of New York.
This is an appeal from a decree whereby the distribution of
a fund in court was ordered, and certain conveyances of real
estate declared to be void as in violation of the provisions of
the bankrupt law.
The record presents the following facts, in addition to those
stated in the opinion of the court: -

-

By an indenture executed April 30, 1867, Alexander T.
Stewart leased to Simeon Leland, Warren Leland, and Charles
Leland, copartners, the Metropolitan Hotel, in the city of New
York, for the term of four years from that date, at an annual

rent of $79,186, payable in equal monthly instalments.

One

of the conditions of the lease was that, simultaneously with its
delivery, the rent reserved should be secured by the lessees

STEWART V. PLATT.

[Sup. Ct.

giving a first mortgage and lien upon their household furniture
and chattels of every description then contained in, and used
for the purposes of, the hotel; and also that they should every
year during the term, and within thirty days prior to the thirtieth day of April therein, renew such mortgage, and execute an
additional one, covering all property of the like kind used at
its date in the hotel for hotel purposes, including that described
in the first mortgage.
The lessees accordingly executed and delivered to Stewart a
first mortgage upon the property described, dated April 30,
1867, which they acknowledged June 11. It was filed September 2 in that year in the office of the register of deeds for the
city and county of New York. Among its stipulations was one
that in case of default in the payment of rent, at the times and
in the manner specified in the lease, the lessor might "take
and carry away the said goods and chattels," dispose of them
at the best price he could obtain, and apply the proceeds in
satisfaction of the rent due and unpaid. As required by the
lease, mortgages in renewal, and in addition containing similar
conditions, were executed by the lessees during the subsequent
years of the term, and filed in the same office.
At the respective dates of the several chattel mortgages, as
well as during the entire term of the lease, Simeon Leland
resided with his family at New Rochelle, in Westchester
County, New York, where he had resided since 1850; Warren
Leland resided with his family in the same county, and had
resided there since 1857; and Charles Leland then and for
the ten or twelve previous years resided with his family at lt
Vernon, in the same county.
None of the mortgages were filed in the towns where the
lessees resided with their families.
In pursuance of an Arrangement made in January, 1871,
between the lessees and Stewart, the former caused conveyances
to be made to the latter as follows: 1st, Certain houses and
lots on Crosby and Jersey Streets in New York City, at the
price of $10,000, by conveyance from George S. Leland, dated
Jan. 23, 1871, acknowledged and recorded in the proper office
on the following day; 2d, Certain houses and lots on Prince
Street, in the same city, at the price of $14,000, by conveyance

Oct. 1879.]

STEWART V. PLATIT.

from George S. Leland, dated Feb. 9, acknowledged Feb. 13,
and recorded Feb. 15, 1871; 3d, An improved farm in the
town of Harrison, Westchester County, at the price of $19,500,
by conveyance from Warren Leland and wife, dated Feb. 1,
acknowledged Feb. 2, and recorded Feb. 24, 1871.
The real estate conveyed by George S. Leland was the property of the lessees or of some of them, the legal title having
been transferred to him, as was claimed, for the convenience of
the real owners when they should sell to others.
The farm conveyed by Warren Leland and wife was purchased by him in 1866, and in pursuance of his directions conveyed to her in 1868.
There were at the time of these transactions unsatisfied mortgages for large sums upon all the real estate. Stewart took it
subject to them, but without assuming to pay the debts thereby
secured.
During the months of February and March, 1871, numerous
creditors obtained judgments against the lessees, in the courts
of New York, and sued out executions, which were levied upon
the property covered by the chattel mortgages. The judgments
were also docketed in the proper offices in New York City and
in Westchester County, so as to create a lien upon the real
estate of the lessees. The first, in point of time, of these
executions was issued February 3, and the last March 29, in
that year.
Upon the petition of one of their creditors, filed March 24,
1871, the lessees were duly adjudged bankrupts April 1, 1871.
Under an order of the bankrupt court, directing possession to
be taken of their property, the marshal took into his custody
that covered by the chattel mortgages to Stewart. It was
inventoried at $47,253.92, and under subsequent orders of the
court was sold at public auction, bringing the sum of $43,469.31.
After paying sundry expenses there remained at the date of
the decree in the District Court about $26,867.29, subject to
distribution.
This suit was commenced in the District Court May 26,
1871, by the assignee in bankruptcy of Simeon, Warren, and
Charles Leland, against them, their judgment creditors, Stewart, and others. The bill, besides seeking the distribution of

STEWART V. PLATT.

[Sup. Ot.

that fund, assails as invalid, not only the several chattel
mortgages and the conveyances of the real estate heretofore
described, but also the judgments obtained in February and
March, 1871. The assignee claimed that he was entitled to
the fund in court, and also to the proceeds of the sale of the
real estate, for distribution among all the creditors of the
bankrupts, without any preference among them, except one
Ramaley, who was conceded to be entitled upon his judgment
to priority.
The court, upon final hearing, held that the chattel mortgages
as well as the conveyances of real estate were void as against
the assignee in bankruptcy. Stewart was ordered to convey
the real estate to the assignee, and he was adjudged to be
liable for the net rents and profits arising from the same subsequently to the execution of the several conveyances. The
court also held that the judgments obtained against the bankrupts within four months preceding the commencement of the
bankruptcy proceedings were void as against the assignee,
and by its further order prohibited Stewart and the judgment creditors from proving their claims in the bankrupt
court.
An appeal was taken to the Circuit Court, pending which
Stewart died. His representatives were made parties to the
proceedings. The decree of the District Court as to the chattel
mortgages and the conveyances of the real estate was affirmed,
and reversed only as to the creditors who had obtained judgments against the lessees within four months prior to March
24, 1871. The court held that the several judgments had not
been obtained in violation of the bankrupt law, and that the
claim upon the fund in court, asserted by the creditors, whose
executions had been levied prior to the commencement of the
proceedings in bankruptcy, was superior to the respective
claims of Stewart and the assignee.
From that decree this appeal is prosecuted by the devisee
and the executors of Stewart.
The case was argued by Mr. Roscoe Con/ling for the appellants, and by Mr. A. Hf. Dana and .3r.Denni8 Meffahon for
the appellees.

Oct. 1879.]

STEWART v. PLATT.

MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
The objects of this suit, so far as they concern the appellants,
were, 1st, To obtain the distribution of the fund arising from the
sale of furniture and other personal property in use in the
Metropolitan Hotel, in the city of New York, at the commencement of the proceedings in bankruptcy. The Lelands were
lessees of that hotel under a written lease from A. T. Stewart,
dated April 30, 1867, for a term of four years thereafter, at an
annual rent of $79,186, payable in equal monthly instalments.
Upon the property thus sold Stewart held, as security for rent
reserved by the lease, several chattel mortgages executed by
the Lelands, the validity of which was questioned in this suit
by the assignee in bankruptcy.
2d, To have a decree declaring sundry judgments against the
bankrupts within four months prior to the adjudication in
bankruptcy, as well as certain conveyances of real estate to
Stewart, to be, as against the assignee, invalid under the provisions of the bankrupt law.
The first question to which we will direct our attention
relates to those several chattel mortgages.
The District and Circuit Courts concurred in opinion that
they were not filed in the office designated by the statutes of
New York, and, upon that ground, were ineffectual to give the
security and lien contemplated by the parties, and void as
against the assignee.
By the laws of New York it is provided that every mortgage
or conveyance, intended to operate as a mortgage of goods and
chattels, which should not be accompanied by an immediate
delivery, and followed by an actual and continued change of
possession of the things mortgaged, should be absolutely void,
as against the creditors of the mortgagor, and as against subsequent purchasers and mortgagees in good faith, unless the
mortgage, or a true copy thereof, shall be filed as directed in
the act. The statute requires such mortgages to be filed in the
town or city where the mortgagor, "if a resident of that State,
shall re8ide at the time of the execution thereof; and if not a
resident, then in the city or town where the property so mortgaged shall be at the time of the execution of such instrument."

STEWART V. PLATT.

[Sup. Ot.

In the city of New York, the mortgage is directed to be filed
in the office of the register of said city; in other cities of the
State, and in the several towns thereof in which a county
clerk's office is kept, in such office; and, in each of the other
towns of the State, in the office of the town clerk thereof.
Registers and clerks are required to file such instruments,
presented to them for that purpose, and indorse thereon the
time of receiving same, and keep them deposited in their offices
for the inspection of the persons interested.
It is further provided that every mortgage filed in pursuance
of the statute should cease to be valid against the creditors of
the mortgagor, or against subsequent purchasers or mortgagees
in good faith, after the expiration of one year from the filing
thereof, unless within thirty days next preceding the expiration
of each and every term of one year after the filing of the mortgage, a true copy thereof, together with a statement exhibiting
the interest of the mortgagee in the property thereby claimed
by him in virtue thereof, shall be again filed in the office of the
clerk or register aforesaid of the town or city where the mortgagor shall then reside.
The bankrupts resided with their families in the county of
Westchester at the respective dates of the several chattel
mortgages, but the business of the firm of Simeon Leland &
Co., as lessees of the Metropolitan Hotel, was carried on in the
city of New York, and all the property covered by the mortgages was in use in that hotel. The mortgages were filed in
the office of the register of deeds for the city and county of
New York, and were not filed in the towns where the lessees
respectively resided with their families. The contention of
learned counsel for the appellants is that the firm was the
mortgagor, that its residence or domicile was in the city of
New York, and that the manifest object of the statute was met
by filing the several mortgages in the city where the firm
carried on its business. The question thus presented is within
a very narrow compass, and is not free from difficulty. Its
solution depends upon the meaning of the word "reside"
employed in the statute. It is to be regretted that we are not
guided by some direct controlling adjudication in the courts of
New York construing the statute under examination. But no

Oct. 1879.]

STEWART V. PLATT.

such decision has been brought to our attention. With some
hesitation we have reached the conclusion that a chattel mortgage, executed by a firm upon firm property, is void, under the
New York statute, as against creditors, subsequent purchasers,
and mortgagees in good faith, unless filed in the city or town
where the individual members of the firm severally reside.
The statute upon its face furnishes persuasive evidence that its
framers intended to make a sharp distinction between the place
where the property might be at the time of the execution of
the mortgage and the place of the mortgagor's residence. If
he be a non-resident of the State of New York, the mortgage
may be filed in the town or city where the property shall be at
the time of the execution of the mortgage. If he be a resident,
then his residence, not the actual situs of the property, governs.
If these instruments be executed by several resident mortgagors, the statute would seem to require that the mortgage be
filed in the towns or cities where the mortgagors at the time
respectively reside.
Some stress is laid upon the fact that in each of the mortgages the mortgagors are described as "of the city of New
York." If that is to be regarded as a representation by them
that their fixed abode was in that city, it is obvious that the
statute designed for the protection of creditors, subsequent purchasers, and mortgagees in good faith cannot be thus defeated.
Their rights depend not upon recitals or representations of the
mortgagors as to their residence, but upon the fact of such
residence. The actual residence controls the place of filing,
otherwise the object of the statute would be frustrated by the
mere act of the parties to the injury of those whose rights were
intended to be protected. The recital of the residence in the
mortgage "seems to be of no importance, and might for the
matter of security be omitted altogether." Nelson, 0. J., in
Clandlerv. Bunn, Hill & D. Supp. (N. Y.) 167.
A good deal was said in oral argument as to the serious
inconveniences which may result from any construction of the
statute that requires chattel mortgages executed by a firm upon
its property to be filed elsewhere than in the town or city
where the property is used, and where the firm business is conducted. On the other hand, it is quite easy to suggest reasons
vox,. Xi.

47

STEWART V. PLATT.

[Sup. Ct.

of a cogent character why, in view of the manifest purpose of
such legislation, the actual residence of the mortgagors should
determine the place of filing. But these are considerations to
be addressed more properly to the legislature of New York,
with whom rests the power to make such alterations as experience may suggest to be necessary. The statute expressly
declares that a chattel mortgage not filed as required by its
provisions is void as to creditors and subsequent purchasers and
mortgagees in good faith; and the circuit justice well said that
the statute had "imposed a rigid and unbending condition, to
wit, a filing in the place where the mortgagors actually reside,
as a preliminary to the validity of the mortgage. Whether
this condition is wise or not, whether convenient or difficult of
performance, is not for the courts to say. The statute exacts
it, and the courts must see that it is performed." Upon this
branch of the case, therefore, we concur in opinion with the
Circuit Court.
It follows, necessarily, from what has been said, that the
Circuit Court rightly adjudged that creditors who obtained
judgments and sued out executions against the Lelands, previous
to the commencement of bankruptcy proceedings, had prior
claims and liens upon the proceeds arising from the sale of the
property covered by the chattel mortgages.
But the final decree in the Circuit Court is erroneous in
directing the residue of the proceeds of the sale of the mortgage
property, after satisfying execution creditors, "to be paid to
the assignee (in bankruptcy) for the purposes of the trust,"
and in charging that balance with the payment of the fees due
counsel of the assignee.
In Yeatman v. Savings Institution (95 U. S. 764), we held it
to be an established rule that, " except in cases of attachments
against the property of the bankrupt within a prescribed time
preceding the commencement of proceedings in bankruptcy,
and except in cases where the disposition of property by the
bankrupt is declared by law to be fraudulent and void, the
assignee takes the title subject to all equities, liens, or incumbrances, whether created by operation of law or by act of the
bankrupt, which existed against the property in the hands of
the bankrupt. Brown v. Meathcote, 1 Atk. 160; lIitchell v.

Oct. 1879.]

STEWART V. PLATr.

Winslow, 2 Story, 630; Gi6son v. Varden, 14 Wall. 244;
Cook v. Tullis, 18 id. 332; Donaldson, Assignee, v. Paruell,
93 U. S. 631 ; Jerome v. McCarter, 94 id. 734. He takes the
property in the same Iplight and condition' that the bankrupt
held it. Winsor v. ltceellan, 2 Story, 492."
The decree below is plainly in contravention of this rule.
Although the chattel mortgages, by reason of the failure to file
them in the proper place, were void as against judgment creditors, they were valid and effective as between the mortgagors
and the mortgagee. Lane v. Lutz, 1 Keyes (N. Y.), 213;
Wescott v. Gunn, 4 Duer (N. Y.), 107; Smith v. Acker, 23
Wend. (N. Y.) 653. Suppose the mortgagors had not been
adjudged bankrupts, and there had been no creditors, subsequent purchasers, or mortgagees in good faith to complain, as
they alone might, of the failure to file the mortgages in the
towns where the mortgagors respectively resided. It cannot be
doubted that Stewart, in that event, could have enforced a lien
upon the mortgaged property in satisfaction of his claim for
rent. The assignee took the property subject to such equities,
liens, or incumbrances as would have effected it, bad no adjudication in bankruptcy been made. While the rights of creditors, whose executions preceded the bankruptcy were properly
adjudged to be superior to any which passed to the assignee by
operation of law, the balance of the fund, after satisfying those
executions, belonged to the mortgagee, and not to the assignee
for the purposes of his trust. The latter representing general
creditors, cannot dispute such claim, since, had there been no
adjudication, it could not have been disputed by the mortgagors.
The assignee can assert, in behalf of the general creditors, no
claim to the proceeds of the sale of that property which the
bankrupts themselves could not have asserted in a contest exclusively between them and their mortgagee. As between the
mortgagors and the mortgagees, the chattel mortgages were and
are unimpeachable for fraud, or upon any other ground recognized in the bankrupt law.
It results that the court below erred in directing the fees of
the assignee's counsel to be paid out of the residue of the fund
in court remaining after the claims of execution creditors were
satisfied. To that balance the appellants are entitled without

STEWART V. PLATT.

[Sup. Ot.

diminution, to be applied in payment of the rent remaining
unpaid, after crediting thereon $43,500, the agreed valuation of
the real estate conveyed to Stewart, and to which we will
presently refer in another connection. It was error to charge
that balance with the payment of costs of fees of counsel, or
any expense incurred by the assignee in bankruptcy in the administration of his trust.
We come now to the questions relating to the several conveyances of real estate made to Stewart in January and February, 1871; all of which were adjudged by the Circuit Court
to be void as against the assignee in bankruptcy.
It is important to consider the circumstances under which
those conveyances were made. Early in the month of January,
1871, commenced a series of interviews between the lessees
and Stewart, brought about, perhaps, by the demand of the
latter, through his agent, for the settlement of rent in arrear,
which then amounted to about $50,000. The lessees desired
a new lease at a reduced rent, while Stewart insisted upon the
payment, or a satisfactory arrangement, of the rent due him.
They confessed present inability to discharge the indebtedness
in any other mode than by conveyances of real estate, which
they urged him to take at fair valuation and give a new lease
at reduced rent. They, in those interviews, expressed the
utmost confidence that such an arrangement would relieve
them from all immediate financial burdens, growing out of the
hotel business, and enable them to meet promptly thereafter
not only instalments of rent, but all other engagements.
Stewart, finally, agreed, for the accommodation of his lessees,
to accept certain real estate, offered to him at the aggregate
price of $43,500, in satisfaction of a like amount of back rent,
and, necessarily, in extinguishment to that extent of his mortgages upon the furniture and other property in the hotel
building. He also signified his willingness to renew the lease
to the same parties, at the reduced rent of $65,000. In pursuance of this arrangement the lessees, or some of them,
caused conveyances to be made to Stewart of the real estate in
question, consisting of a farm in Westchester County, and
several houses and lots on Crosby, Jersey, and Prince Streets,
in New York City.

Oct. 1879.]

STEWART V. PLAT.

We are all of opinion that the conveyance, dated Feb.
1, 1871, by Mrs. Warren Leland and her husband of the
farm in Westchester County, was unassailable by the assignee
upon any ground whatever. That property was a gift from
the husband to the wife at a time when his right to make
it cannot be disputed. As early as 1868 it was distinctly separated from the mass of his property, and the title made to her
for her benefit. There is no proof that the conveyance was
with any intention to defraud his then existing or future creditors.
Of those whose interests the assignee in bankruptcy
here represents, or assumes to represent, none, except perhaps
one, were creditors of Warren Leland at the date of that conveyance. The bill alleges that the bankrupts, or some of
them, intended to give Stewart a preference over other creditors, and to that end, it is charged, Warren Leland caused the
conveyance to be made to his wife of the farm in question,
"owned by the said Warren Leland, but standing in the name
of his wife." But clearly it was not owned by the husband
after the execution of the absolute conveyance of 1868. Her
rights, by reason of any thing appearing in this record, could
not be disturbed by the husband's creditors who became such
after the execution of the conveyance to her. She chose, in
order to aid her husband, or for other reasons satisfactory to
herself, to unite with him in the conveyance to Stewart, thereby
surrendering her estate for the benefit of the husband's creditor. Suppose she had not so done, and that the title had
remained in her name up to the time of the adjudication in
bankruptcy. Would it be contended, for a moment, that the
assignee in bankruptcy, or that the creditors of the bankrupts,
becoming such after the execution of the conveyance, could
have subjected that farm to the debts of Warren Leland against
the consent of his wife ? This question must, in view of the
evidence, receive a negative answer, which shows, conclusively,
that the appropriation of the wife's property, by the joint act
of herself and husband, to the payment of the debt of a particular creditor of the latter, is not a matter of which the assignee
in bankruptcy, or any subsequent creditor of the husband, can
rightfully complain. The decree of the Circuit Court declaring the conveyance of that farm to Stewart to be void, and

STEWART V. PLATT.

[Sup. Ct.

requiring Mrs. Stewart to convey to the assignee in bankruptcy, was, for the reasons stated, clearly erroneous.
It remains to consider that part of the decree which declared
the conveyances to Stewart of the houses and lots on Crosby,
Jersey, and Prince Streets, in New York City, to be void.
When these conveyances were agreed to be made, Stewart,
as already stated, had an undisputed claim for rent in arrear
amounting to over $50,000. Under the provisions of the mortgages, a default in the payment of rent having taken place,
Stewart, at the time the exchange was determined upon,
could have taken actual possession of the mortgaged property
and sold it for the best price he could obtain in satisfaction of
his claim for rent. His right to possession for such a purpose
could not have been questioned by any creditor of the lessees
who had not, by previous judgment and execution, acquired
a lien upon the mortgage property. Burdickc v. Ml Vanner,
2 Den. (N. Y.) 170; Stewart v. Slates, 6 Duer (N. Y.), 83; Hall
v. Sampson, 35 N. Y. 274; Ackley v. Finch, 7 Cow. (N. Y.)
290 ; Langdon v. Buel, 9 Wend. (N. Y.) 80; Patchin v. Pierce,
12 id. 61. Instead of exercising that right, -a course which
would have seriously endangered, if it had not utterly destroyed,
the business and credit of the lessees, - Stewart, at their earnest solicitation, and for their accommodation, accepted real
estate at a fair valuation in satisfaction of rent due and unpaid,
thereby surrendering and extinguishing his lien to that extent
upon the property described in the chattel mortgages. Of the
$43,500 at which the real estate received by Stewart was
valued, $19,500 represented the farm in Westchester County,
which, we have shown, could not have been subjected to the
claim of any creditors who became such after the conveyance to Mrs. Leland. In point of fact, therefore, only $24,000
in value of real estate, belonging to the bankrupts, was received
by Stewart, while he surrendered his claim and lien for rent to
the extent of $43,500. This was, in its substance and effect, a
mere exchange of securities, not forbidden by the letter or the
spirit of the bankrupt law. In Cook v. Tullis (18 Wall. 332),
we said that "a fair exchange-of values may be made at any
time, even if one of the parties to the transaction be insolvent.
There is nothing in the Bankrupt Act, either in its language or

Oct. 1879.]

STEWART V. PLATT.

object, which prevents an insolvent from dealing with his property, selling it or exchanging it for other property, at any time
before proceedings in bankruptcy are taken by or against him,
provided such dealing be conducted without any purpose to
defraud or delay his creditors or give preference to any one,
and does not impair the value of his estate. An insolvent is
not bound in the misfortune of his insolvency to abandon all
dealing with his property; his creditors can only complain if
he waste his estate or give preference in its disposition to one
over another. His dealing will stand ifit leave his estate in
as good plight and condition as previously." Substantially the
same doctrine was announced in Clark v. Iselin, 21 Wall. 860;
Sawyer v. Turpin, 91 U. S. 114.
These principles would seem to be decisive of the case under
consideration. While there is some conflict in the testimony as
to certain matters, we have a strong conviction, from all the
facts and circumstances established by the proof, that the
transaction by which the real estate, at a fair valuation, was
substituted for the lien, of like amount, upon personal property, was without any fraudulent purpose. The substitution
was not made to give a preference to Stewart. The belief and
hope of the bankrupts, expressed in decided terms to him,
were that the substitution or exchange would enable them to
remove all financial obstacles of a serious nature. They induced him, by earnest representations, to share these hopes.
lie delayed or forebore to exercise the right, which, at the commencement of negotiations, he undoubtedly had, of taking the
mortgaged property into his custody, and disposing of it in satisfaction of his claim for rent. That the arrangement in question did not substantially impair the value of the bankrupts'
estate is abundantly clear. His lien, which was extinguished
by the exchange, exceeded, in value, that portion of the real
estate, embraced in the conveyances to him, which the creditors
of the bankrupts could have reached under their executions.
The fact that the mortgaged property brought only $43,469.31,
is relied upon to show that the exchange did impair the
estate of the bankrupts. This argument proceeds upon the
assumption either that when the exchange was determined
upon, he bad not a lien upon the mortgaged property. as

STEWART V. PLATT.

[Sup. Ct.

between him and the mortgagors, or that if he had, he would
not have enforced it by taking the property into his custody,
upon a refusal of the lessees'to make some satisfactory arrangement. But such assumption is without support in the law or
the proof. Besides, the evidence leads to the conclusion that
the mortgaged property sold, at public auction, for less than its
fair value. While the witness, who made the inventory and
appraisement, testifies that it sold for its full value, the
auctioneer, who conducted the sale, testified that with proper
appliances it would have brought fifty per cent more. It is
certain that it sold for much less than either the lessees or
Stewart at the time of their negotiations supposed it to be
worth.
For these reasons we are of opinion that the court below
erred in adjudging the conveyances to Stewart of the houses
and lots on Crosby, Jersey, and Prince Streets, in New York, to
be void, requiring Mrs. Stewart to convey the same to the
assignee in bankruptcy, and declaring his estate liable for the
rents and profits of the same.
.Decree reversed, with directions to enter a decree in conformity
with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD, with whom concurred MR. JUSTICE
SWAYNE and MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY, delivered the following
opinion: I concur in the decree of reversal in this case, but I go
further than the majority of the court. I think that the
chattel mortgages were properly filed with the register in the
city of New York. The mortgagors were partners doing business there. They are described in the mortgages as of that

city. The property mortgaged was furniture in a hotel situated
there, and it is to the records of the city that one would naturally resort to ascertain whether there were any liens upon it.
The domicile of a firm, under the law requiring chattel mortgages to be filed in the county where the mortgagors reside, is,
in my judgment, the place where it is located and carries on its
business. I am of opinion, therefore, that the chattel mortgages in this case held the property against the judgments of
the creditors.

