700

DAUTERIVE V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

clerk after he went out of office; because the clerk in office
adopted that signature as his own when he united with the
chairman in delivering the bonds to the railroad company, pursuant to the vote of the town. There the bonds were not only
complete in form at the time they bore date, but when they
were actually issued as genuine by the proper agents, one
of whom was the clerk who should have signed them. Here
they were not actually complete in form when they were issued,
and it was only by a false date inserted by one of the two
agents required by law to unite in their execution, and without the knowledge or consent of the other, who never acted at
all, that they were apparently so. They were never in a condition to be issued, and were never in fact issued by the proper
authorities. They were in legal effect forged.
It follows that the judgment of the Circuit Court was right,
Afrmed.
and it is consequently
MR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD, MR. JUSTICE SwANE, and
JUSTICE STRONTG

MR.

dissented.

DAUTERI

v. UmITED STATES.

1. Where a petition was filed under the eleventh section of an act entitled "An
Act for the final adjustment of private land claims in the States of
Florida, Louisiana, and Missouri" (12 Stat. 85), praying for the confirmation of title to a tract of land in Louisiana, and it appears that the grant,

as the same is alleged in the petition, was not surveyed before the treaty
of cession, and that it furnishes no means whereby its location or extent
can be determined, -

Hdd, that the petition was properly dismissed.

2. United States v. D'Auterieve (14 How. 14), in which the same grant was under
consideration, cited and approved.

APPEAL from the District Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Edward Janin for the appellants.
Te Solicitor- General, contra.

Oct.1879.]

DAUTERIVE V. UNITED STATES.

delivered the opinion of the court.
Claimants to land lying within the States of Florida, Louisiana, or Missouri, by virtue of any grant, concession, order of
survey, permission to settle, or other written evidence of title
bearing date prior to the cession of the territory out of which
those States were formed, may make application to certain
commissioners for the confirmation of their title, or they may
at their option proceed by petition in the District Court within
whose jurisdiction the lands are situated. 12 Stat. 85.
Either party aggrieved by the decree in the case may appeal
directly to the Supreme Court as of right, neither affidavit or
security being required of the claimant, other than for costs.
Pursuant to that authority the appellants presented their petition to the District Court of the District for Louisiana, asking
for the confirmation of their title to the same, except as to such
parts thereof as have been granted by the United States or confirmed to other parties, as to which they pray that they may be
adjudged to be entitled to indemnity in certificates of location
to the same extent of land.
Sufficient appears to show that the same claim was presented
to the same District Court twenty years earlier, and that on
appeal to the Supreme Court the claim was rejected. United
State8 v. D'Auterieve, 15 How. 14. Full report is there given
of the origin, nature, and extent of the claim, and in view of
that fact it is not deemed necessary to reproduce the allegations
of the petition in this opinion, as the whole substance of the
same is given in the opinion of the court in that case.
Due appearance was entered in behalf of the United States
in this case, and the district attorney filed an answer to the
petition, setting up several defences, as follows: 1. That no
such grants or mesne conveyances as those under which the
petitioners claim were ever made. 2. That if any such grants
were ever made as alleged, which is denied, that the lands
were never separated by metes and bounds or actual survey
from the mass of the public domain, and are therefore null
and void by reason of uncertainty of location and vagueness of
description, both as to the boundaries of the grants and to their
extent.
Tracts of land of great extent were granted by royal charter
MR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD

DAUTERIvE V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. OL

to a certain ass6ciation called the Western Company, and the
claim of the appellants is that that company made concession
of the tract in question to the grantor of their ancestor, the
tract at the date of the concession being four leagues front on
the right bank of the Mississippi River and extending back to
the river Atchafalaya, a distance of ten or twelve miles. Neither the royal charter granting the land to the Western Company nor the concession to the grantor of their ancestor is given
in evidence. Nothing of the kind is pretended, but the appellants allege that the letters-patent, bearing date in 1717, were
issued in the name of the sovereign of France, by which the
said company was created, and that by the fifth article of
the same all the lands, coasts, ports, havens, and islands of the
Province of Louisiana were given and granted to the said company, with power to give, sell, and grant the same to others,
and that the company during that year or early in the next
year conveyed the tract antecedently described to the grantor
of their ancestor.
Their theory is that the concession was made by the French
authorities before the province was ceded to Spain. History
shows that France subsequently, by a secret treaty, transferred
the province to Spain in pursuance of the stipulations between
the contracting parties. When the first governor under the
Spanish rule visited the province he reduced the tract to a front
of twenty arpents, to which no objections appear to have been
made by the claimant; but the successor of that magistrate,
three years later, when he assumed the functions of governor of
the province, enlarged the front to forty-four arpents, which
perhaps was done at the request of the claimant. Galvez was
the third governor of the province after the cession to Spain,
and he, in the exercise of his powers, took away from the heirs
of the alleged purchaser the whole front to the depth of forty
arpents from the Mississippi River, leaving them nothing except
what is called in legal phrase the back lands.
Throughout these several changes in the alleged title of the
ancestor of the appellants and his immediate heirs, all parties
appear to have acquiesced without any complaint. Nor do the
appellants now claim any of the front land on the river MAississippi, nor the four leagues, nor the forty or forty-four arpents.

Oct. 1879.]

DAUTERIVE V. UNITED

STITES.

Instead of that, their claim is to the back lands, the side lines
commencing at a point forty arpents from the Mississippi River
and extending back to the river Atchafalaya. Even as reduced
the claim is a large one, amounting to perhaps five hundred
thousand acres, but it is not more than one-fifteenth part of the
original claim, as appear by the documents exhibited in the
transcript.
3. Besides denying the authenticity of the concession, the
answer also denies in the most explicit terms that the tract, as
described in the evidence, ever extended back to Atchafalaya
River.
4. Support to that proposition is derived in the answer by
referring to the regulations adopted two years before the second
governor under Spanish rule enlarged the front to forty-four
arpents, which provide that all grants fronting upon rivers shall
be limited to a depth of forty arpents. White's Recopilacion,
p. 299, art. 1.
5. That the case is in all respects the same as that previously
decided by this court. United States v. D'Autereve, 15 How.
14, 23.
No record of the concession, say the court in that case, has
been produced, and after a thorough examination of the archives,
both at New Orleans and in the appropriate offices for the
deposit of such records, none can be found. Mention was then
made of the proof exhibited in the case, which it seems consisted
only of certain historical sketches given to the public of the first
settlement of the province under the direction of the Western
Company, together with some documentary evidence relating to
the plantation of the alleged original donee through his agents,
such as powers of attorney and some intermediate transfers of
the titles in the charge of the agency. These are given in
detail, but the court remarks that unfortunately neither the historical sketches nor the documentary evidence furnishes any
information as to the extent of the concession or its boundaries.
Speaking to the same point, the court say that the tract claimed
as derived from the original donee is without boundaries or location, and the court proceeds to remark that the only description
that has been referred to, or which the court has been able to
find after a pretty thorough search, even in historical records,

DAUTERIVE V. UNITED STATES.

[Slip. Ct.

is that it was a concession of a large tract upon the right bank
of the Mississippi River, opposite Manchac, a point some twenty
leagues above New Orleans. We have no evidence of the extent
of the concession on the river or the depth back, say the court,
or of any land-marks designating the tract, by which it can be
regarded as severed from the public domain.
Governor Unzaga, who succeeded the first Spanish officer of
that rank, ordered a survey of the tract, and it appears it was
made by the public surveyor, and that it was returned and
approved in the same year. Special attention to that fact was
called in the argument of the prior case, and it was urged that
it furnished evidence of an incipient step to establish an incomplete title under our treaty of cession, and the court entered
into a full examination of the proposition and the evidence to
support it, which consisted chiefly of the field-notes of the
survey.
Reference is made to the claim in some of the intermediate
conveyances as a plantation or concession by the name of the
first agent of the company, or by the name of the "Bayou
Goula village," the name of a place on the river where the
tribe of Indians of that name made their headquarters. Satisfactory evidence is exhibited that the public surveyor surveyed
the front to the depth of forty arpents, but it must be remembered that the front of the tract on the river to the depth of forty
arpents was given up, and that it was subsequently assigned by
the governor to other emigrants, and no part of it is now claimed
by the appellants.
Back concessions, it seems, were seldom made, and in no
instance of which there appears to be any authentic account,
except to the proprietor of the front, and where made uniformly
had a depth of forty arpents, reckoning from the rear line of
the first concession, but the same form of title appears to have
been required in the one case as in the other, and in no case
could a fee-simple estate be acquired from the government without the severance of a definite tract from the mass of the public
lands under the operation of a complete grant. 4 Op. Att.Gen. 683.
Such a severance might be made by the grant itself, if it contained specific boundaries, or was well defined by courses and

Oct. 1879.]

DAUTERIVE V. UNITED STATES.

distances, or other authentic and definite description of the tract.
It is not pretended that either boundaries or courses and distances, or any other authentic or definite description of the tract,
was given in the supposed concession. Where such evidence
of the location and description of the tract is wanting in
the concessions, they may and often have been supplied by
what is called a judicial survey, nor is it doubted that an
official survey under the order of the governor might have a
like effect.
Beyond doubt, such a survey was made of the front on the
river; but this court decided, in the case already referred to,
that there is not the slightest pretence that the tract as surveyed under that order of the governor extended back further
than the usual depth of forty arpents from the river. No support to the theory of the appellants that it extended back to
the river Atchafalaya is exhibited in the record. Nor do the
field-notes or the proces verbal of the surveyor who made the
field-notes and the survey give the proposition the least countenance.
Under our treaty of cession the United States acquired in sovereignty all the lands in the province which had not before been
granted by one or the other of the two prior sovereigns and
severed as private property from the royal domain. It was
incumbent, therefore, upon the appellants to show that the
land in question had been so granted by the antecedent authorities, else the United States are entitled to recover it. United
State8 v. King, 7 How. 833, 849.
Subsequent concessions were made by the Spanish authorities
within this claim, which, as well as the action of the authorities
in resuming the possession of the larger portion of it, show conclusively that no such right as is now claimed by the appellants
was recognized by those authorities.
Since the cession of the province, the right of such a claimant is the same as it would have been if the jurisdiction had
not been transferred, from which it follows that rejected claims,
which had no validity at the date of the treaty, impose no obligation upon the United States as the successor of the foreign
sovereign.
Cases of the kind have frequently been before the court, in
voi. Mi.

45

DAUTERIVE V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ot.

which the act of Congress authorizing such litigations has been
construed and the rights which it confers defined. We adopt
the construction given to the act in the last-reported case upon
the subject, as follows: 1. That the claimant or those under
whom he holds must have been out of possession for twenty
yeaxs or more. 2. That the land must be claimed by a complete grant or concession or order of survey or other mode of
investiture of title in the original claimant by separation of the
tract from the mass of the public domain, either by actual survey or defined, fixed natural boundaries or initial points and
courses and distances by the competent authority, prior to the
treaty of cession. 3. That those conditions do not apply where
the title was created and perfected during the period of the actual
possession of the government under which the claim is asserted.
Titles in fee-simple which were complete when the jurisdiction
of the province was transferred to the United States needed no
confirmation, as they are fully protected by the treaty of cession. United States v. Percheman, 7 .Pet. 51, 88; United
States v. Wiggins, 14 id. 334, 349. 4. That the title must be
complete under the former sovereign, that is, the land must
have been identified by an actual survey with metes and bounds,
or the description in the grant must be such that judgment can
be rendered with precision by such metes and bounds, natural
or otherwise; that nothing must be left to doubt or discretion
in its location; and if there was no actual survey previously
made which a surveyor can follow, there must be such a
description of natural objects for boundaries that he can do the
same thing de novo, or, in other words, the separation of the
tract from the public domain must not be a mere conjectural
separation, but complete, without any element of discretion or
uncertainty. Scull v. United States, 98 U. S. 410, 418; Smith
v. United States, 10 Pet. 326, 334.
Apply those rules to the case before the court, and it is clear
that the decree of the court below must be affirmed. Even if it
be conceded that the concession is proved, it is clear that it has
no boundaries, nor does it contain any means to determine
either the location or the extent of the supposed grant.
Grants of the kind which do not contain any description by
which the land can be located, and are not connected with a sur-

Oct. 1879.]

DAUTERIVE V. UNITED STATES.

vey, do not create private property under the treaty of cession.
Where the concession contains no lines or boundaries whereby
any definite and specific parcel of land was severed from the
public domain; the claim of the donee cannot be sustained, it
having been repeatedly decided by this court that if the description is vague and indefinite, as in the case before the court, and
there is no official survey to give it a certain location, it will
create no right of private property which can be maintained in
a court of justice. United States v. King, 3 How. 773, 787.
Legal survey will often be sufficient to establish the locality
of the tract, and may have the effect to establish its extent; but
if the claimant shows no survey under the former sovereign, it
lies on him to establish the boundaries of his concession and to
identify his land with such certainty as to show what particular
tract was segregated from the public domain, and if he fails to
do it, then he has no judicial remedy, and if he seeks confirmation he must go to Congress. United States v. Boisdorg, 11
How. 63, 96; Lecompte v. United States, 11 id. 115, 127;
United States v. Forbes, 15 Pet. 173, 184.
Attempt is not made to show that the supposed concession
contained any definite boundaries or any other means of establishing its locality or of defining its extent, nor is it pretended
that the tract as now claimed by the appellants was ever surveyed by the public surveyor antecedent to the treaty of cession to the United States. Conclusive proof to the contrary is
exhibited in the opinion of this court delivered by Mr. Justice
Nelson, which conclusion is fully sustained by the field-notes of
the survey of the front, and by the proces verbal and the figurative plan exhibited in the transcript.
.Decree affirmed.

