622

JONES

JONES v.

v.

GUARANTY AND INDEMNITY C0.

GuA-RANTY A:ND INDEMN=T

[Sup. Ot.

Co11PANY.

1. A corporation of New York having authority to mortgage its property for
the purpose of carrying on its business is not prohibited by the laws of
that State from executing such a mortgage to secure the payment of money
to be thereafter advanced.
2. A., as president of B., a corporation, applied to C. for a loan. The latter
then advanced $50,000, taking therefor a note of B., payable to the order of
D. & Co., - of which firm A. was a member, - and bearing their indorsement. A. also stipulated to deliver to C., B.'s mortgage on its real estate
for $100,000, as security for said $50,000 and for any further loans from C.
to B. The execution of the mortgage was assented to in writing by B.'s
trustees and by A., who was its creditor to a large amount and the holder of
nearly all of its capital stock. The mortgage describes the individual obligation of A. as the liability to be secured, but recites that its execution
was authorized to secure a loan of 100,000; that A. had given to C. his
personal bond in that sum to secure advances made as therein stipulated.
It was conditioned for the payment by B. of the amount that might be due
upon the instrument secured by it. The bond bears even date with the
mortgage. It recites that it was given to cover any advances made or to
be made to A. by C. to the amount of $100,000 or less, on condition that
such advances and their payment should be indorsed thereon, as fixing the
amount of indebtedness, for all of which certain premises that day conveyed
by B. to C. by indenture of mortgage shall be liable. -Upon the delivery of
the bond and mortgage to C., B.'s note for said .50,000 was renewed, and
the amount thereof indorsed on the bond as an advance of that date. The
bond shows two other advances to A. of $25,000 each, for one of which a
note of B. for that amount payable to his order, and duly indorsed, was
delivered as collateral, and for the other a warehouse receipt for oil, given
by B. to him. The receipt proved worthless, and the note was subsequently
renewed. None of B.'s notes were paid, but the money advanced to A. was
used for the benefit of B. Held, 1. That it was the debt of B. and not that
of A. which was intended to be, and is, secured by the mortgage. 2. That
parol evidence was admissible to show such intent.
AIPPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of New York.
The New York Kerosene Oil Company and the New York
Guaranty and Indemnity Company were corporations organized
-pursuant to the laws of New York.
On the 15th of February, 1867, Abraham M. Cozzens, as the
president of the Oil Company, applied to the Guaranty Company
for a loan of $100,000. The sum of $50,000 was advanced to
him, and he thereupon delivered to the Guaranty Company the
note of the Oil Company for that amount, of the date above

Oct. 1879.]

JONES V. GUARANTY AND INDEMNITY CO.

623

mentioned, payable to and indorsed by A. M. Cozzens & Co.,
and having sixty days to run.. At the same time he gave to the
Guaranty Company a memorandum signed by him as such president, whereby he stipulated that he would cause to be prepared
a mortgage by the Oil Company to the Guaranty Company on
the real estate of the former therein mentioned, for the sum of
$100,000, to be held by the latter as security for the $50,000 so
lent, and for any further loan thereafter made by the Guaranty
Company to the Oil Company. Cozzens thereupon procured
a formal order to be made by the trustees of the Oil Company
that such a mortgage should be executed, and the written consent of the holder of more than two-thirds of the stock of the
Oil Company was given to the same effect. Both were necessary to the validity of the mortgage.
The capital stock of the Oil Company was $500,000, and
Cozzens owned of it 8493,000.
Passing by some intermediate details not necessary to be particularly stated, Cozzens caused to be prepared the bond and
mortgage here in question, and both were duly executed. The
counsel who prepared them made the mortgage describe the
individual obligation of Cozzens as the liability to be secured
instead of the debt of the company; but the mortgage recited
that the Oil Company had authorized the giving of the mortgage
to secure a loan of $100,000, and that Cozzens had given to the
Guaranty Company his personal bond in that sum to secure
advances, not to exceed that sum, to be made to Cozzens, upon
the conditions in the bond mentioned, and that the requisite
consent of stockholders had been given. The mortgage was
conditioned for the payment by the Oil Company, and not by
Cozzens, of the amount that might be due upon the instrument
secured by it. The bond is set out at length in the record. It
states that it was given to cover any advances then made or
thereafter to be made by the Guaranty Company to Cozzens to
the amount of $100,000 or less, on the condition that whenever any sum was so advanced the amount and date of the
advance should be indorsed on the bond and signed by Cozzens,
and that when any payment was made by Cozzens such payment
should be indorsed in like manner, and that the amount which,
according to the indorsements, should appear to be due on the

JONES V. GUARANTY AND INDEMNITY C0.

[Sup. Ct.

bond should be considered as the amount due, "and for which
the premises which have this day been conveyed to the said
New York Guaranty and Indemnity Company, by the New
York Kerosene Oil Company, by indenture of mortgage bearing even date herewith, shall be liable, and for no greater
sum."
The mortgage and bond bear date on the 29th of April, 1867,
but were delivered and took effect on the 11th of May follow
ing. The indorsements on the bond show that Cozzens received
from the obligee three several advances, - one of 850,000,
and two of $25,000 each. No credits are indorsed. The note
of the Oil Company, indorsed and delivered to the Guaranty
Company on the 15th of February previous, when the first loan
of $50,000 was made, was renewed when the bond and mortgage were delivered, and the amount was indorsed on the bond
as an advance of that date. It was renewed several times subsequently, and the Guaranty Company holds the last renewal.
When one of the advances of $25,000 was made, a note of the
Oil Company for that amount to Cozzens & Co. was indorsed
and delivered as collateral. That note was also renewed from
time to time, and the last renewal is held by the Guaranty
Company.
When the other advance of $25,000 was made, a warehouse
receipt for oil, given by the Oil Company to Cozzens, was indorsed and delivered as a collateral. The receipt proved worthless. Nothing was ever received upon it. It is not controverted
that the Oil Company owed Cozzens more than $100,000
for his advances to it, nor that every dollar of the loans in
question were used for its benefit. Not the slightest taint of
dishonesty is shown in these transactions, nor is any thing disclosed which warrants the suspicion of such a purpose.
The Oil Company was expressly authorized by the act under
which it was organized to secure the payment of its debts theretofore or thereafter " contracted by it in the business for which
it was, incorporated, by mortgaging any or all real estate of
such corporation," and it was declared that "every mortgage so
made shall be as valid to all intents and purposes as if executed by an individual owning such real estate."
In March, 1868, Cozzens and the Oil Company became insol-

Oct. 1879.]

JONES v. GUARANTY AND INDEMNITY

CO.

625

vent. Their paper went to protest. The business of the latter
for the time was ruinous, and both were engulfed in the vortex
of common disasters. Cozzens died about a week afterwards.
"His death was caused by his failure. His physician said so."
The unsecured creditors attacked the validity of the mortgage.
The Circuit Court sustained it, and the controversy has been
brought here for review.
31r. Benjamin P. Tracy for the appellant.
I. George P. Comstolek and Mr. William Allen Butler, contra.
AI.
JUSTICE SwAYNE, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
The analysis of this case in the preceding statement divests
it of all extraneous considerations, and presents it in the nakedness and simplicity of its material facts.
The central and controlling questions to be determined are:Whether the Oil Company had the power to give a mortgage
for future advances; and,
Whether the mortgage here in question is, in the view of a
court of equity, for the debt of the Oil Company or for the debt
of Abraham M. Cozzens.
The oral arguments of the eminent counsel who appeared
before us were addressed principally to these subjects. Numerous other points are made by the counsel for the appellant in
his brief, and have been fully discussed in the printed arguments upon both sides. They are minor in their character,
and we think involve no proposition that admits of doubt as to
its proper solution. We are satisfied with the disposition made
of them by the Circuit Court, and shall pass them by without
further remark.
At the common law, every corporation had, as incident to its
existence, the power to acquire, hold, and convey real estate,
except so far as it was restrained by its charter or by act of
Parliament. This comprehensive capacity included also personal effects of every kind.
The jus disponendi was without limit or qualification. It
extended to mortgages given to secure the payment of debts.
1 Kyd, Corp. 69, 76, 78, 108; Angell & Ames, sect. 145;
2 Kent, Com. 282; _eynolds v. Commissioners of Stark County,
VOL. xx.
40

626

JONES v. GUARANTY AND INDEMNITY

CO.

[Sup. Of.

5 Ohio, 204; White Water 17alley Canal Co. v. Vallette, 21 How.
414.
A mortgage for future advances was recognized as valid by
the common law. Gardnerv. Graham, 7 Vin. Abr. 22, pl. 3.
See also Brinkerhoff v. Marvin, 5 Johns. (N. Y.) Ch. 320;
Lawrence v. Tecker, 23 How. 14.
It is believed they are held valid throughout the United
States, except where forbidden by the local law.
The statute under which the Oil Company came into existence
made it "capable in law of purchasing, holding, and conveying
any real and personal estate, whenever necessary to enable" it
to carry on its business; but it was forbidden to "mortgage the
same, or give any lien thereon." This disability was removed
by the later act of 1864, which expressly conferred the power
before withheld. This change was remedial, and the clause
-which gave it is, therefore, to be construed liberally with reference to the ends in view.
The learned counsel for the appellant insisted that a mortgage could be competently given by the Oil Company only to
secure a debt incurred in its business and already subsisting.
This, we think, is too narrow a construction of the language of
the law. A thing may be within a statute but not within its
letter, or within the letter and yet not within the statute. The
intent of the law-maker is the law. The People v. Utica Insurance Co., 15 Johns. (N. Y.) 857; United States v. .Ba~bit,
1 Black, 55.
The view of the court in Thompson v. New York & Hfudson
River Railroad Co. (8 Sandf. (N. Y.) Oh. 625) was sounder and
better law. There the charter authorized the corporation to
build a bridge. It found one already built that answered every
purpose, and bought it. The purchase was held to be intra
vires and valid. Here the object of the authorization is to
enable the company to procure the means to carry on its business. Why should it be required to go into debt, and then
borrow, if it could, instead of borrowing in advance, and shaping
its affairs accordingly? No sensible reason to the contrary can
be given. If it may borrow and give a mortgage for a debt
antecedently or contemporaneously created, why may it not
thus provide for future advances as it may need them? This

Oct. 1879.]

JONES

v.

GUARANTY AND INDEMNITY

CO.

627

may be more economical and more beneficial than any other
arrangement involving the security authorized to be given. In
both these latter cases the ultimate result with respect to the
security would be just the same as if the mortgage were given
for a pre-existing debt in literal compliance with the statute.
No one could be wronged or injured, while the corporation,
whom it was the purpose of the law to aid, might be materially
benefited. Is not such a departure within the meaning, if not
the letter, of the statute? There would be no more danger
of the abuse of the power conferred than if it were exercised
in the manner insisted upon. The safeguard provided in the
required assent of stockholders would apply with the same
efficacy in all the cases. The object of the loan, the application of the money, and the restraints imposed by the charter in
those particulars, would be the same, whether the transaction
took one form or the other. According to our construction the
company could give no mortgage but one growing out of their
business, and intended to aid them in carrying it on. In legal
effect the difference between the two constructions is one
merely of mode and manner, and not of substance.
Such securities are not contrary to the law or public policy
of the State. Many cases are found in her reported adjudications where both judgments and mortgages for future advances
have been sustained.
Our view is not without support from the language of the
statute, that "every mortgage so made shall be as valid to all
intents and purposes as if executed by an individual owning
such real estate." If this mortgage had been given by individuals, the question we are examining doubtless would not
have been brought before us for consideration.
When a deed is fatally defective for the want of a sufficient
consideration to support it, such a consideration subsequently
arising may cure the defect and give the instrument validity.
Sumner v. Hiek8, 2 Black, 532. It is not necessary to go
through the form of executing a second deed to take the place
of the first one. This principle applieg to the mortgage after
all the advances had been made, conceding that it had before
been invalid for the reason insisted upon.
The statute of 1864 neither expressly forbids nor declares
void mortgages for future advances.

628

JONES v. GUARANTY AND INDEMNITY CO.

[Sup. Ct.

If the one here in question be ultra vires, no one can take
advantage of the defect of power involved but the State. As
to all other parties, it must be held valid, and may be enforced
accordingly. Silver Lake Bank v. North, 4 Johns. (N. Y.) Ch.
370; National Bank v. Matthews, 98 U. S. 621. In the latter
case this subject was fully examined.
A corporation can act only by its agents. If there were any
such technical defect as is claimed touching the execution of
this mortgage, it has been cured by acquiescence and ratification by the mortgagor.
No one else can raise the question. All other parties are
concluded. aordon v. Preston, 1 Watts (Pa.), 385.
Where money had been obtained by a corporation upon its
securities which were irregular and ultra vires, but the money
was applied for the benefit of the company, with the knowledge
and acquiescence of the shareholders, the company and the
shareholders were estopped from denying the liability of the company to repay it. And the same result follows where such
securities are issued with the knowledge of the shareholders, so
far as the money thus raised is applied for the benefit of the company. In re Cork &JYoughal Bailway Co., Law Rep. 4 Ch. 748.
A court of equity abhors forfeitures, and will not lend its aid
to enforce them. Marshall v. Vicksburg, 15 Wall. 146. Nor
will it give its aid in the assertion of a mere legal right contrary
to the clear equity and justice of the case. Lewis v. Lyons, 13
Ill 117.
The second point to be considered is whether the mortgage
was for the debt of Cozzens or for the debt of the Oil Company.
Cozzens occupied a twofold relation to the latter. He owned
all the stock but a trifle, and was the president of the company.
At the same time he was largely its creditor. When he applied
to the Guaranty Company, he appeared in his official character,
and proposed a present loan to the Oil Company of $50,000
upon its note, and further advances thereafter to the amount
of $50,000, making in the aggregate the sum of $100,000, the
whole to be secured by a mortgage from the company upon all
'its real estate.
This offer was accepted. The proposition as to the mortgage
'was in writing, and signed by Cozzens as president. It men-

Oct. 1879.]

JONES v. GUARANTY AND INDEMNITY CO.

629

tioned a loan of $50,000 as already made to the Oil Company,
and spoke of "any future loan you may make to our company,"
as the liabilities to be secured.
Let us pause for a moment and consider the position of the
parties at this point of time. So far, all that had been done
and all that had been proposed and agreed to be done was in
form and substance solely for the Oil Company. Nothing had
been done or proposed for Cozzens individually. There is no
ground for the allegation or suspicion that the transaction was
in aught otherwise than as we have stated it. It is true the
Guaranty Company held the indorsement, not of Cozzens, but
of Cozzens & Co. on the note of the Oil Company for $50,000.
But the Oil Company was primarily liable. Cozzens & Co.
were responsible as indorsers and sureties, and were liable to
be called upon only in the event of the default of the principal
debtor. Until that occurred, they could not be required to
respond; and in that contingency they would have been liable
as any other sureties are under the same circumstances. The
Oil Company was the principal debtor.
When the agreement between the Oil Company and the Guaranty Company came to be carried out, the scrivener by whom
the papers were prepared without the request or knowledge of
the Guaranty Company, described in the mortgage the penal
bond of Cozzens as the thing to be secured, but the mortgage
recited that the president had been authorized to make the
loan and to execute the mortgage to secure its payment, and
that the requisite consent of the stockholders had been given,
and the condition of the mortgage was that the Oil Company,
and not Cozzens, should pay whatever might become due upon
the bond. It is true that Cozzens covenanted personally in the
mortgage to pay, while there was no such covenant on the part
of the company.
The first indorsement upon the bond was made upon the renewal of the company's note of $50,000, held by the Guaranty
Company. One of those of $25,000 was for that amount advanced upon the note of the Oil Company for the like sum.
The remaining indorsement was for that amount advanced
upon a warehouse receipt for oil given by the company to
Cozzens and by him transferred to the Guaranty Company.

630

JONES v. GUARANTY AND INDEMNITY Co.

[Sup. Ct.

All the moneys thus advanced were applied exclusively for
the benefit of the Oil Company.
There can be no question as to the first indorsement on the
bond of $50,000 being the debt of the mortgagor. It was the
same debt which subsisted when the first note was delivered to
the Guaranty Company, and the character of the debt was not
changed by the renewal of the note and the indorsement on
the bond then made.
If a note secured by a mortgage be renewed or otherwise
changed, the lien of the mortgage continues until the debt is
paid. Changes in the form of the instrument are immaterial.
Equity regards only the substance of things, and deals with
human affairs upon that principle. The same state of things
in effect occurred with respect to each of the other sums advanced by the Guaranty Company. The note and warehouse
receipt given for them were the note and receipt of the Oil
Company, and it was responsible accordingly. Its needs were
the motive, and were at the foundation of every loan that was
made; and whether Cozzens acted as its agent in making them,
or transferred the securities as a creditor acting for himself, is
quite immaterial. The result is inevitably the same. In
either case the Oil Company became directly liable upon the
securities, and to that amount, the principal debtor to the
mortgagee.
The condition of the mortgage being that the company
should pay and not that Cozzens should, it could not be
broken without the company's default. Until that occurred,
there could be no remedy upon it either by foreclosure or
ejectment. If Cozzens made default, no such consequence
would follow. He could be sued on his covenant, but the
rights and remedies of the mortgagee with respect to the mortgaged premises would be neither more nor less on that account.
The covenant of Cozzens was collateral to the liability of the
company. No such covenant was needed from the Oil Company,
because the mortgage pledged its entire real estate, and the
mortgagee held in addition a direct liability for each advance
upon which a judgment at law could be taken. As before
remarked, there could be no breach of the condition of the
mortgage without the default of the Oil Company; and if it

Oct. 1879.]

JONES

v. GUARANTY AND INDEIANTY

CO.

631

had paid the amount due that would have extinguished the
collateral liability of Cozzens and of Cozzens & Co., and if
the tender had been refused, it would have extinguished the
mortgage, though not the debt. .ortright v. Cady, 21
N. Y. 343.
In all that Cozzens did he acted as the agent of the Oil Company, and it would involve an utter perversion of the facts to
hold that he and not that company was the principal debtor
to the Guaranty Company.
We are satisfied beyond a doubt that it was the debt of the
Oil Company and not his debt that was intended to be secured
and was secured by the mortgage.
In examining this point, it was proper to consider all the
evidence in the record. This was objected to by the counsel
for the appellant. He insisted that the scope of our view must
be limited to the face of the mortgage and the obligation secured by it.
It is common learning in the law that parol evidence is admissible to show that a deed absolute on its face is a mortgage,,
to establish a resulting trust, to show that a written contract
was without consideration, that it was void for fraud, illegality,
or the disability of a party, that it was modified as to the time,
place, or manner of performance or otherwise, or that it was
mutually agreed to be abandoned; also to show the situation
of the parties and the surrounding circumstances when*it was
entered into and to apply it to its subject, to show that a joint
obligor or maker of a note was a surety, and that the acceptor
or indorser of a bill or the maker or indorser of a note became
such for the accommodation of the plaintiff. Where a party
has entered into a written contract, it may be so shown that he
did it as the agent of another, though the agency was concealed and the principal not disclosed, and the principal, in
such case, may be held liable upon it. A mortgage or a judgment may be assigned by parol.
These are but a small part of the functions which such evidence is permitted to perform.
In no class of cases is it admitted with greater latitude and
effect than in that to which the one here in hand belongs.
In 87drras v. (Jaig & Mitchell (7 Cranch, 34), Mr. Chief Jus-

632

JONES

v.

GUARANTY AND INDEMNITY

C0.

[SUp. Ot.

tice Marshall said: "It is true that the real transaction does
not appear on the face of the mortgage. The deed purports to
secure a debt of £30,000 sterling, due to all the mortgagees.
It was really intended to secure different sums, due at the
time to particular mortgagees, advances afterwards to be made
and liabilities to be incurred to an uncertain amount."
After remarking that such an instrument was liable to suspicion, he proceeds: "But if, on investigation, the real transaction shall appear
to be fair, though somewhat variant from that which is de-'
scribed, it would seem to be unjust and unprecedented to deprive the person claiming under the deed of his real equitable
rights, unless it be in favor of a person who has been in fact
injured by the misrepresentation. That cannot have happened
in the present case."
The decree of the court was that the mortgagees were entitled to have the mortgaged premises sold, "and to apply the
proceeds of said sale to the payment of what remains unsatisfied of their respective debts," &c.
In Gordon v. Preston (supra), it appeared that the mortgage
was for a greater amount than was owing to the mortgagee.
Chief Justice Gibson said the mortgage was good "for the
sum actually due." He said further: " But the mortgage
was in fact given for the benefit of other creditors, whose
debts are not disputed, and though the trust is not expressed
in the instrument, evidence was proper to explain the true
nature of the.transactionand negative any imputation of actual
fraud."
In .lurd et al. v. Robinson et al. (11 Ohio St. 232), the condition of the mortgage was: "Provided always, and these
presents are upon the condition, that whereas the said Robinson is indebted to said bank for money loaned, and for divers
bills of exchange and promissory notes, now if the said Robinson shall discharge his said several liabilities in six months
from this date, these presents shall be void, otherwise, to remain in full force and virtue." The condition was held to be
sufficiently definite, and the mortgage was sustained. The
opinion of the court is able and elaborate. Gill v. Pinney
(12 id. 38) is to the same effect.

Oct. 1879.]

LUMBER

Co. v. BUcHTEL.

Other like cases might be multiplied to an indefinite extent.
It is unnecessary to incumber this opinion with further references. The grounds upon which they proceed are, that a thing
is to be regarded as certain which can be made certain; that
evidence can be adduced to apply the contract to its subject;
that where there is enough to put those concerned upon inquiry, the means of knowledge and knowledge itself are, in
legal effect, the same thing.
A multo fortiori was it proper to receive the evidence referred to in the present case.
See, in this connection, also, Chester and Others v. The Bank
of KEingston, 16 N. Y. 336, and Horn v. Keteltas, 46 id. 605.
-Decree affirmed.

LU3mBER

OtPA.y v. BUCHTEL.

1. A. contracted to sell B. a tract of pine land at a stipulated sum, payable in
future instalments, a conveyance to be made only upon payment of the
several sums as they became due, the cutting or removal of the timber being
in the mean time prohibited without the written permission of A. Two
days afterwards B. assigned the contract to C. A. assented to the assignment, and gave C. permission to enter the lands and cut and remove the
timber, in consideration whereof the latter guaranteed the payments stipulated in the contract., The first instalment due not having been paid, A.
brought suit against C. upon the guaranty. The latter set up the defence
that he was induced to enter into the undertaking by the false and fraudulent representation of A. as to the quantity of good merchantable timber
contained in the tract. The case was, by stipulation of the parties, tried
before a referee, who reported that the representations were made by an
agent of B., and that he did "not find" that A. participated therein. Held,
1. That A.'s grant of permission to C. to cut and remove the timber was
the release of an important security to him against possible loss if payment
were not made on the contract, and that the guaranty was a reasonable
exaction from 0. therefor. 2. That said representations not coming from
A., nor relating to the permission to cut and remove the timber, did not
release C. from liability on the guaranty.
2. The objection cannot be made for the first time in this court, that the report
of the referee finds certain facts inferentially and not directly.
3. Smble, that the finding of a referee should have the precision of a special
verdict, specifying with distinctness the facts, and not leaving them to be
inferred.

