MOULOR v. INSURANCE 0O.

[Sup. Gt.

MOvIOR V. INSURAINTCE COMPANY.
In an action upon a life policy, where the defence is set up that some of the
answers to the interrogatories contained in the application for insurance are
untrue, and the evidence is conflicting, the court should not direct the jury to
find for the defendant.

EItRoIt to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
This action was brought by Emilie Moulor, widow of Louis
Moulor, against the American Life Insurance Company, upon
a policy of insurance upon his life issued June 17, 1872. The
instrument contains the following stipulation: "And it is
hereby declared and agreed that if the representations and
answers made to this company in the application for this
policy, upon the full faith of which it is issued, shall be found
to be untrue in any respect, or that there has been any concealment of facts, then, and in such case, this policy shall be null
and void." The application contains the following interrogatories and answers, among others: "Seventh. Has the party"
(Louis Moulor) "ever been afflicted with any of the following
diseases? Answer ' yes' or ' no' to each. Insanity? No. Gout? No.- Rheumatism? No.- Palsy? No. - Scrofula?
No. -Convulsions?
No.-Dropsy? No.- Small-pox? No.
Yellow fever? Yes. - Fistula? No. - Rupture? No.Asthma? No. - Spitting of blood? No. - Consumption?
No. - Any diseases of the lungs or throat ? No. - Or of the
heart? No. - Or of the urinary organs? No."
Interrogatory twelfth. "How long since the party was attended by a physician ? For what disease or diseases?" Answer.
"Not since the year 1847, when he had the yellow fever."
After these answers the application contained the following:
"It is hereby declared and warranted that the above are fair
and true answers to the foregoing questions, and it is acknowledged and agreed by the undersigned" (Louis Moulor) "that
this application shall form a part of the contract of insurance,
and that if there be in any of the answers herein made any
untrue or evasive statements, or any misrepresentations, or
concealment of facts, then any policy granted upon this application shall be null and void."

Oct. 1879.]

MouLOR V. INSURANCE

CO.

The defence set up at the trial was that some of the answers
to the interrogatories contained in the application were untrue,
and this defence was attempted to be supported by the testimony of a single witness, Dr. Mathieu. He testified that he
bad been the family physician of Moulor since 1855; that in
1858 and 1859 he attended Moulor for chronic asthma, manifestations of the first stage of consumption, and also treated
him for scrofula. The witness did not testify positively that
Moulor had the diseases for which he treated him, but his testimony was that Moulor never learned from him or any other
physician, and that he never suspected or had the remotest
idea that he was affected with any such diseases; on the contrary, that he always boasted of himself as being a strong,
healthy, and robust man. The witness further testified that
the asthma Moulor had was the dry, nervous asthma, attended
by no expectoration; that there was nothing connected with it
to make the patient believe he had it. As to the first stage of
consumption, there was no softening of the tubercles, and,
therefore, no expectoration of the tuberculous matter. As to
the scrofula, that his was very mild diathesis.
This was all the testimony adduced, and now relied upon to
prove that the answers in the application were untrue.
There was, however, in evidence the statement of two medical examiners attending the application. They represented
the assured as in perfect health, and as having never had any
constitutional disease except yellow fever, and a curvature of the
spine in his early youth, and as having no predisposition, either
hereditary or acquired, to any constitutional disease.
The court instructed the jury to find for the defendant.
Judgment having been rendered accordingly, the plaintiff sued
out this writ.
1XIr. James Parsonsfor the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Isaac Hazlehurst and Mr. Henry Hazlehurst for the
defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE STRONG, after stating the facts, delivered the
opinion of the court.
As the judgment which was entered by the Circuit Court
was in accordance with the verdict, the only assignment of

710

MOULOR V. INSURANCE

CO.

[Sup. Ct.

error which we have to consider is the first, namely, that the
court erred in giving to the jury a binding charge to return a
verdict for the defendant.
We are of opinion that the evidence did not warrant a
peremptory instruction to the jury to find a verdict in favor of
the defendant. The testimony of Dr. Mathieu was parol. Its
credibility as well as its effect was for the jury, especially as
it was not positive and unqualified that Moulor had had the
diseases for which the witness had treated him, and as the
statements of the examining physicians which were in evidence
tended in some degree to prove that he never had. The jury
might, perhaps, have drawn the conclusion from Dr. Mathieu's
testimony that there had been only predisposition to the diseases,
and not the diseases themselves. He stated in regard to the
*asthma for which he treated Moulor that it was attended with
no expectoration, and that there was nothing connected with
it to make the patient believe he had it. In regard to the
first stages of consumption, according to his statement there
was no expectoration of tuberculous matter. He does not state
that there was any cough or pain in the chest. There were,
then, no external symptoms of either of the three diseases
mentioned. Had scrofula existed, it would seem probable the
patient must have known it. Yet the doctor states he did not
suspect, or have the remotest idea, that he was affected with
either of the diseases. That he was treated for them is not
conclusive that he had them. The most skilful treatment
sometimes is given when the existence of a particular disease
is only suspected, not known, and when afterwards it appears
the physician was mistaken.
For these reasons we think the testimony was not such as to
justify a withdrawal from the jury of the inquiry whether the
answer to the seventh interrogatory was untrue.
Nor was it sufficient to enable the court to conclude, without
reference to the jury, that the answer to the twelfth interrogatory was untrue. The entire interrogatory should be considered as one. It was, "How long since the party was attended
by a.physician? For what disease or diseases?" To this the
answer was, "Not since the year 1847, when he had the yellow
fever." It may well be that the applicant understood the

Oct. 1879.]

EX PARTE RAILWAY Co.

interrogatory as asking information respecting attendance for
a particular disease or diseases and their description, especially
as the thirteenth interrogatory sought information respecting
the party's usual medical attendant, and the name of that
attendant was truly given.
Upon the whole, therefore, we think the case should have
been submitted to the jury on the evidence.
Judgment reversed, and the cause remitted for a new trial.

Ex PARTE RAILWAY COMPANY.
1. This court will not by mandamus revise the action of inferior courts acting
within the scope of their authority touching any matter about which they
must exercise their judicial discretion.
2. A petition was presented for a mandamus to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Colorado in the matter of the proceedings had
subsequently to its receipt of the mandate ordered in Railway Company v.
Alling, 99 U. S. 463. They are mentioned infra, pp. 715-717. Held, that
the case is not one which calls for interposition by mandamus.

PETITION for mandamus.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
The case was argued by Mr. Roscoe Conkling and Mr. Samuel
Siellabargerfor the petitioner, and by Mr. Sidney Bartlett and
Mr. George 0. Shattuck, contra.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an application, by petition, for a writ of mandamus
to the judges of the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Colorado, commanding them to proceed and give
final decree, in accordance with the opinion and mandate of
this court, in the suit of the Cation City and San Juan Railroad
Company against the Denver and Rio Grande Railway Company. The history of this litigation is set forth in Railway
Comnpany v. Alling (99 U. S. 463), to which reference is here
made. The present application is supported by an exemplified
copy of the proceedings had in the Circuit Court at its May

