Oct. 1879.]

NATIONAL BANK V. COUNTY OF YANKTON.

129

upon our approval or disapproval of the decision upon its
merits. In Pease v. Peek (18 How. 599), we said that this
court would not feel bound, "in any case in which a point is
first raised in the courts of the United States, and has been
decided in a circuit court, to reverse that decision contrary to
our own convictions, in order to conform to a State decision
made in the mean time. Such decisions have not the character
of established precedent declarative of the settled law of the
State." Mlorgan v. Curtenius, 20 How.1.
For these reasons we are of opinion that the demurrer to the
third plea was properly sustained.
The facts set out in the fourth plea clearly do not constitute
a defence to the action. We could not hold otherwise without
overturning the settled doctrines of this court in reference to
municipal bonds issued in payment of subscriptions to the
capital stock of railroad corporations. Our remarks in Brookly/ v. Insurance Company (99 U. S. 862) are applicable to
this case, and support the action of the court in sustaining a
demurrer to the fourth plea.
Other considerations might be suggested in support of the
judgment, but what we have said is sufficient to dispose of the
case.
Judgment affirmed.

1NATiONAL BANKv. CoUN-Y OF YANK3TON.
1. The statute of Congress organizing a Territory within the jurisdiction of the
United States is the fundamental law of such Territory, and as such binding upon the territorial authorities.
2. Subject to the limitations expressly or by implication imposed by the Constitution, Congress has full and complete authority over a Territory, and may
directly legislate for the government thereof. It may declare a valid enactment of the territorial legislature void or a void enactment valid, although
it reserved in the organic act no such power.
3.Under the statutes of Congress (12 Stat. 239 and 15 id. 300) the legislative
assembly of Dakota meets biennially, and no one session thereof can exceed forty days. That assembly met Dec. 5,1870, and after continuing in
session every day, Sundays excepted, until Jan. 13, 1871, adjourned without
day. The acting governor convened it April 6,1871, when, after organizing, it passed, among other laws, one entitled "An Act to enable organized
VOL. Xi.

9

180

NATIONAL BANK V. COUNTY OF YANKTON.

[Sup. Ct.

counties and townships to vote aid to any railroad, and to provide for payment of the same." In strict conformity to its provisions, the electors of
a county voted to donate a specific sum to a certain railroad company.
Congress, by an act approved May 27, 1872 (17 id. 162), disapproved and
annulled said territorial act, but provided that the vote of aid for the
construction of the main stem of the road of the company should not be
impaired, and that the company was a valid corporation. The company
complied with the requirements of Congress by giving for the aid so voted
an equal amount of stock to the county, and the latter issued its bonds
therefor. In an action brought by a bona fide holder of them to recover
certain instalments of interest,- Held, that, independently of the question
of authority to convene that extra session, or of the validity of the laws
enacted thereat, the bonds are binding on the county, inasmuch as the act
of Congress is equivalent to a direct grant of power to issue them.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of Dakota Territory.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr.S.
. Packard and Mr. James Grant for the plaintiff
in error.
Mr. Hatt. H. Carpenter and Mr. James Coleman for the

defendant in error.
JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
MR. CHi
court.
By sect. 4 of the act to provide a temporary government
for the Territory of Dakota, no one session of the legislative
assembly shall exceed forty days (12 Stat. 239), and in 1869
Congress declared that the sessions of all territorial legislative
assemblies should be biennial. 15 id. 300. The members of the
legislative assembly of Dakota met on the 5th of December, 1870,
and continued in regular session on all days, except Sundays,
until Jan. 13, 1871, when they adjourned without day. The
day of adjournment was called on the journals the fortieth day
of the session, although there had been but thirty-five days of
actual session for the transaction of business. On the 18th
of April, 1871, the members of the legislature elected the preceding fall again assembled at the call of the acting governor
of the Territory. After organizing themselves as a legislative
assembly and proceeding to legislate for the Territory, they
passed, among other acts, one entitled "An Act to enable
organized counties and townships to vote aid to any railroad,
and to provide for the payment of the same." Under this act

Oct. 1879.]

NA&iONAL BANK V. COUNTY OF YANKTON.

181

the voters of Yankton County, on the 2d of September, 1871,
voted to donate the Dakota Southern Railroad Company
$200,000 in the bonds of the county. All the proceedings
under which this vote was taken were conducted strictly according to the requirements of the law.
On the twenty-seventh day of May, 1872, the following act
of Congress was approved and went into effect. 17 id. 162.
"An Act in Relation to the Dakota Southern Railroad
Company.
"Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of
the United States of America in Congress assembled, that the act
passed by the legislative assembly of the Territory of Dakota, and
approved by the governor on the twenty-first day of April, 1871,
entitled ' An Act to enable organized counties and townships to
vote aid to any railroad, and to provide for the payment of the
same' be, and the same is hereby, disapproved and annulled, except in so far as herein otherwise provided. But the passage of
this act shall not invalidate or impair the organization of the company heretofore organized for the construction of the Dakota
Southern Railroad leading from Sioux City, Iowa, by way of Yankton, the capital of said Territory, to the west line of Bon Homme
County, or any vote that has been or may be given by the counties
of Union, Clay, Yankton, and Bon Homme, or any township granting aid to said railroad, or any subscription thereto, or any thing
authorized by and that may have been done in pursuance of the
provisions of the aforesaid act of the legislative assembly of said
Territory towards the construction and completion of said railroad,
and the said Dakota Southern Railroad Company, as organized
under and in conformity to the acts of the legislative assembly of
said Territory, is hereby recognized and declared to be a legal and
valid corporation; and the provisions of the act of the legislative
assembly first aforesaid, so far as the same authorize, and for the
purpose of validating any vote of aid and subscriptions to said company for the construction, completion, and equipment of the main
stem of said railroad, between the termini aforesaid, are hereby
declared to be and remain in full force, but no further, and for no
other purpose whatsoever.
"SECT. 2. That for the purpose of enabling the said Dakota
Southern Railroad Company to construct its said road through the
public lands between the termini aforesaid, the right of way through
said public lands is hereby granted to said company to the extent

182

NATIONAL BANK V. COUNTY OF YANKTON.

[Sup. Ct.

of one hundred feet in width on each side of said road: Provided,
that nothing in this act shall relieve said Dakota Southern Railroad Company from constructing and completing said railroad in,
accordance with the conditions and stipulations under which the
citizens of the counties therein named voted aid to said railroad in
accordance with the laws of said Territory, approved April 21,
1871: Providedfurther, that said Dakota Southern Railroad Company shall issue to the respective counties and townships voting
aid to said railroad, paid-up certificates of stock in the same in
amounts equal to the sums voted by the respective counties and
townships."
After the passage of this act, the bonds voted were delivered
by the county commissioners to the railroad company, and stock
in the company for an equal amount was issued to the county.
The First National Bank of Brunswick, Maine, the bona fide
holder and owner of ten of these bonds, amounting in the
aggregate to $10,000, brought this suit against the county to
recover three instalments of interest. The defence was that
there was no law authorizing the issue of the bonds, and, as a
consequence, that the county was not bound for the payment
of either principal or interest. Upon the trial of the cause, the
facts were found substantially as already stated, and a judgment was rendered by the District Court of the Territory in
favor of the county. This judgment was afterwards affirmed
by the Supreme Court, and thereupon the bank brought the
case here by writ of error.
We do not consider it necessary to decide whether the governor of Dakota had authority to call an extra session of the
legislative assembly, nor whether a law passed at such a session
or after the limited term of forty days had expired would be
valid, because, as we think, the act of May 27, 1872, is equivalent to a direct grant of power by Congress to the county to
issue the bonds in dispute. It is certainly now too late to
doubt the power of Congress to govern the Territories. There
have been some differences of opinion as to the particular
clause of the Constitution from which the power is derived,
but that it exists has always been conceded.' The act to adapt
the ordinance to provide for the government of the Territory
northwest of the river Ohio to the requirements of the Con-

Oct. 1879.]

NATIONAL BANK V. COUNTY OF YANKTON.

133

stitution (1 Stat. 50) is chap. 8 of the first session of the first
Congress, and the ordinance itself was in force under the confederation when the Constitution went into effect. All territory within the jurisdiction of the United States not included
in any State must necessarily be governed by or under the
authority of Congress. The Territories are but political subdivisions of the outlying dominion of the United States. Their
relation to the general government is much the same as that
which counties bear to the respective States, and Congress
may legislate for them as a State does for its municipal organizations. The organic law of a Territory takes the place of a
constitution as the fundamental law of the local government.
It is obligatory on and binds the territorial authorities; but
Congress is supreme, and for the purposes of this department
of its governmental authority has all the powers of the people of the United States, except such as have been expressly
or by implication reserved in the prohibitions of the Constitution.
In the organic act of Dakota there was not an express reservation of power in Congress to amend the acts of the territorial
legislature, nor was it necessary. Such a power is an incident of sovereignty, and continues until granted away. Congress may not only abrogate laws of the territorial legislatures,
but it may itself legislate directly for the local government.
It may make a void act of the territorial legislature valid, and
a valid act void. In other words, it has full and complete
legislative authority over the people of the Territories and all
the departments of the territorial governments. It may do for
the Territories what the people, under the Constitution of the
United States, may do for the States.
Turning, then, to the particular act of Congress now under
consideration, we find that the attention of that body was in
some way brought to the fact that the, legislative assembly of
Dakota bad, on the 21st of April, 1871, passed an act to enable
organized counties and townships to vote aid to railroads. In
addition to this, it was known that the Dakota Southern Railroad Company had been organized as a corporation under certain acts of the territorial legislative assembly, and that votes
had been taken under the aid act in some of the counties and

184

NATIONAL BANK V. COUNTY OF YANKTON.

[Sup. Ct.

townships granting aid to or authorizing subscriptions of stock
in this corporation. It is clear that Congress disapproved the
policy of the aid act, and was unwilling to have it go into general operation; but to the extent it could be made available
for the construction and completion of the main stem of the
Dakota Southern Railroad the contrary is distinctly manifested.
The act as a whole was "disapproved and annulled," but in
substance re-enacted by Congress "for the purpose of validating
any vote of aid or shbscription" to that company, but "for no
other purpose whatever." A careful examination of the statute
leaves no doubt in our minds on this subject. To make it sure
that the organization of the company was complete, the "Dakota Southern Railroad Company, as organized under and in
conformity to the acts of the legislative assembly of said Territory," was "recognized and declared to be a legal and valid
corporation." It is then in terms enacted that the provisions
of the aid act, "so far as the same authorize, and for the purpose of -validating any vote of aid and subscriptions to said
company, for the construction, completion, and equipment of
the main stem of said railroad, . . . are hereby declared to

be and remain in full force." And again: "that said Dakota
Southern Railroad Company shall issue to the respective counties and townships voting aid to said railroad, paid-up certificates of stock in the same in amounts equal to the sums voted
by the respective counties and townships." In the light of
these distinct and positive declarations and enactments of Congress, it is impossible to bring our minds to any other conclusion than that, when the bonds now in controversy were put
out, there existed full and complete legislative authority to
bind the people of the county for their payment. No complaint is made of any irregularity in the proceedings under the
law. The question in the case is one of power only. As we
think, the vote of the people of the county was "validated"
by Congress, and express authority given to issue the bonds for
the purposes originally intended. The only change which
Congress saw fit to make was to require the company to give
stock in return for the donation as voted.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory will be
reversed, and the cause remanded with instructions to reverse

Oct. 1879.]

WOOD V. CARPENTER.

the judgment of the District Court and direct a judgment for the
plaintiff on the facts found for such amount as shall appear to
be due on the coupons sued for; and it is
So ordered.

WOOD

V. CARPENTER.

The statutes of Indiana provide that "an action for relief against frauds shall
be commenced within six years," and that "if any person liable to an action
shall conceal the fact from the person entitled thereto, the action may be
commenced at any time within the period of limitation after the discovery of
the cause of action." A., who had recovered judgment in 1860 in a court of
that State against B., brought suit in 1872, alleging that the latter, in 1858, in
order to defraud his creditors, confessed judgments, incumbered his property,
and in 1862 transferred his real and personal estate to sundry persons, who
held the same in secret trust for him; that on being arrested in 1862, upon
final process to compel the payment of A.'s judgment, he deposed that he was
not worth twenty dollars, and had in good faith assigned all his property to
pay his creditors; that A. believing the statement, and relying upon the representations of B., that C., his son-in-law, would with his own means purchasa
the judgment for fifty cents of the principal and interest, sold it in 1864 to
C.; that he has since discovered that the money he received therefor belonged
to B.; that the latter has now an indefeasible title to the property; and that
said judgment has been entered satisfied. Held, that the Statute of Limitations commenced running when the alleged fraud was perpetrated, and that
it is not avoided by a replication averring that B. fraudulently concealed the
facts in the declaration mentioned, touching the incumbering or the conveying
of the property, the confession of judgments, and his real ownership of the
property, and that A. had no knowledge of them until a short time before the
suit was brought.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Indiana.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Andrew L. Robinson and Mr. Asa Iglehart for the

plaintiff in error.
1Mr. ChYarles Denby and Mr. eT H. Slackelford for the defendant in error.
Mr.. JUSTICE SwAYNF, delivered the opinion of the court.
This action was brought Oct. 21, 1872. The amended complaint or declaration makes the following case: William L.

