Oct. 1879.]

BANK V. SHERMAN.

but did not transfer her separate estate to him. Unless his
means were actually used to pay her debts, his creditors have
lost nothing they ever had a right to claim as in law or equity
belonging to them. Conradv. Shomo, 44 Penn. St. 193; Brown
v. Pendleton, 60 id. 419. As he was at the time hopelessly
insolvent, it cannot for a moment be supposed that credit was
given to his personal obligation. The wife and her separate
estaid furnished the only security the parties supposed they had
for the money which was loaned.
We have thought it unnecessary to go over the details of the
evidence in an opinion. The result we have unanimously
reached is that the decree below should be reversed and the
cause remanded with instructions to dismiss the bill with costs.
It is consequently
So ordered.

BANK v. SERx".
IOKSLNG v. SHERMAN.
On the 23d of February, 1875, certain creditors filed their petition in the District Court of the United States, praying that A. should be declared a bankrupt. On the 9th of March he appeared, and leave was given them to amend
their petition, by adding new causes of bankruptcy or otherwise. On the 16th
of April, he filed his answer, denying that the aggregate of the claims of the
petitioners amounted to one-third of the debts provable against him. Time
was thereupon allowed for other creditors to unite with the petitioners, and
the previous leave to amend the petition was continued. On the 22d of that
month one B. was permitted to unite with the petitioning creditors, and their
petition was amended by alleging that A. within six months before the petition was filed committed, by the non-payment of his commercial paper, an act
of bankruptcy. The amount of A's debts then represented, was sufficient,
and upon the alleged act of bankruptcy set forth in the amended petition A.
was duly declared a bankrupt. On the 12th of July, 1875, an assignment was
made to C. as assignee which included all the property and effects of every
kind in which A. "was interested or entitled to have" on the 23d of February, 1875. 0. filed, July 7, 1877, his bill to reach certain securities which had
been transferred by A. on or about March 20, 1875. Hdd, 1. That the continuity of the proceedings in bankruptcy was unbroken and that the assignment was operative, according to its terms, although the act upon which the
adjudication was had was first alleged in said amendment to the petition.
2. That C.'s suit was not barred by the Statute of Limitations.

BANK v. SHERMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

APPEALS from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Northern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

MTr. Julius Rosenthal and Mr. A. M. Pence, for bank.
Mr. Albion Cate for Hickling.
Mr. I. S. Poll and Mr. L. H. Bisbee for Sherman.
MR. JUSTICE SwAYINE delivered the opinion of the Court.

These are suits in equity. Our attention will first be given
to the first-named case. The bill was filed by the appellee,
Hoyt Sherman, as assignee in bankruptcy of Benjamin F. Allen,
to reach certain securities therein described, which were transferred to the appellants by the bankrupt to secure the payment
of two promissory notes of T. A. Andrews & Co., a firm consisting of T. A. Andrews and the bankrupt. One of the notes
was for $15,000, and was held by the International Bank. The
other was for $5,000, and was held by the appellant Hickling.
On the 23d of February, 1875, a creditor's petition was filed
in the District Court praying that Allen should be declared
a bankrupt. On the 9th of March Allen appeared before the
district judge. The hearing was postponed until the 16th of
that month. Allen was given until that time to answer, and
leave was given to the creditors to amend their petition, by adding new causes of bankruptcy or otherwise. Nothing further
material was done in the case until the 16th of April following,
when Allen filed his answer denying that the aggregate of the
claims of the petitioning creditors amounted to one-third of the
debts provable against him. Ten days was thereupon allowed
for other creditors to unite with the petitioners, and the leave
before given to amend the petition was continued. On the
22d of April following, Receiver Burley was permitted to unite
with the petitioning creditors by signing the petition, which
he did, and the petitioning creditors, including Burley, thereupon amended their petition. The amount of the debts of the
bankrupt then represented was sufficient. The amendment set
an act of bankruptcy by Allen in not paying his commercial
paper within six months next preceding the time of filing the
petition. An order of adjudication was duly entered, and on
the 12th of July, 1875, an assignment was made to Hoyt Sher-

Oct. 1879.]

BANK V. SHERMAN.

man, as assignee. The assignment included all the property
and effects of every kind in which Allen, the bankrupt, "was
interested or entitled to have on the twenty-third day of February, A.D. 1875."
The continuity of the proceeding from the outset was unbroken. The original petition was amended by inserting an
act of bankruptcy which occurred before the petition was filed,
as before stated, but the original petition was in no wise either
dismissed or abandoned. There is no pretence for alleging
either.
The assignment related back to the commencement of the
proceeding, which was by filing the petition on the 23d of
February, 1875, and the title of the assignee to all the property
and effects of the bankrupt became vested as of that date. Rev.
Stat. 980, sect. 5,044.
This bill was filed on the 7th of July, 1877. It was amended
twice, but the amendments were chiefly verbal. Their effect
was only to give greater precision to the charges already made.
The framework of the bill remained the same. No new cause
of action was introduced. The chages were not such as could
have any effect with respect to the statutory limitation as to
suits by or against assignees in bankruptcy. The limitation in
such .a case is two years. Rev. Stat. sect. 5,057. The time
begins to run when the assignee is appointed. Bump on Bankruptcy, 558. The appellee having been appointed assignee on
the 12th of July, 1875, and the bill having been filed on the
7th of July, 1877, it escaped the bar of the limitation prescribed
by five days. The statute, therefore, does not affect the case,
and may be laid out of view. No further remarks as to this
aspect of the proceeding will be necessary.
The assets involved in this controversy were transferred to
the appellants on or about the 20th of March, 1875. The bill
proceeds upon the assumption, and charges, that the title vested
in the assignee for all the purposes of this case on the 23d of
February, 1875, and that hence, when the transfer was made
by the bankrupt, he had no title and no control over the property. This is denied by the appellants. They insist that as
the act of bankruptcy upon which the adjudication was founded
was introduced into the petition by an amendment made on the

BANK V. SHERMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

22d of April following, the title of the assignee cannot be held
to have vested at an earlier time, and that Allen, therefore, had
the title when he made the transfer.
The court below held according to the theory of the bill.
The statute is clear and imperative. Its constitutional validity is not questioned. • It contains no qualification. We cannot
interpolate what is claimed. Such a function is beyond the
sphere of our power and duty. It is our business to execute the
law as we find it, and not to make or modify it. In the disposition of property among creditors, equality is equity. It was
the genius and purpose of the statute to secure this result as
far as possible from the moment its aid was invoked, whether
by debtor or creditor. The power of amendment is incident to
all judicial administration. Its exercise is vital to the ends of
justice. Tilton v. Cofield, 93 U. S. 163. The filing of the petition was a caveat to all the world. It was in effect an attachment and injunction. Thereafter all the property rights of the
debtor were ipso facto in abeyance until the final adjudication.
If that were in his favor they revived and were again in full
force. If it were against him, they were extinguished as to him
and vested in the assignee for the purposes of the trust with
which he was charged. The bankrupt became, as it were, for
many purposes, civiliter mortuus. Those who dealt with his
property in the interval between the filing of the petition and
the final adjudication, did so at their peril. They could limit
neither the power of the court nor the effect of the final exercise of its jurisdiction. With the intermediate steps they had
nothing to do. The time of the filing of the petition and the
final result alone concerned them. In this case the title of the
assignee is in all respects just what it would have been if the
bankrupt had ldone nothing, and there had been no interposition by the appellants. Otherwise the efficacy of the act
depended not upon its own language and meaning, but was only
what others outside of the proceeding might choose to permit
it to be. This would be a solecism, and largely defeat the purpose of the statute and the policy of Congress in enacting it.
We concur entirely in the opinon of the Circuit Court upon
the subject.
The bankrupt was under arrest upon civil process when the

Oct. 1879.]

COUNTY OF LIVINGSTON v. DARLINGTON.

407

transaction complained of by the bill occurred, and the appellants knew of the filing of the petition against him, and of his
utter insolvency when they received the assets.
Our opinion in this case disposes also of the other. The
record shows that the rights of Witherow were settled and provided for by a decree in another litigation to which he and the
assignee were parties. The cross-bills were properly dismissed.
-Decreesaffirmed.

COUNTY OF LIVINGSTON V. DARLINGTON.
The act of the General Assembly of Illinois, approved March 6, 1867, establishing the State Reform School, examined. The provision, authorizing municipal corporations to donate money to secure the location of the school within
their limits, sustained as not being in conflict with the constitution of the
State, adopted in 1848, there being no settled or uniform decision to the contrary by her Supreme Court.

ERROR, to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. R-iclard T. M5lerrici and M1Tr. Bobert
plaintiff in error.
MIr. Wayne 3Iac Veagl, contra.

a. Ingersoll for the

MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
The court is asked in this action to declare an act of the
General Assembly of Illinois to be repugnant to the Constitution of that State. The act referred to was approved March
5, 1867. It established a State Reform School for the discipline, education, employment, and reformation of juvenile
offenders and vagrants, between the ages of eight and eighteen
years. The management of the institution was committed to
a board of trustees, appointed by the Governor by and with the
consent of the Senate. Cook County was excepted from the
operations of the act, because a similar institution had been
previously established in that county.

