Oct. 1879.]

O1oWAiD v. RAILWAY CO.

HOWARD v. RAILWAY COMTANY.
Where judgments were rendered against a railway company in Wisconsin, and
the assignee of the older one, in order to enforce his lien, filed his bill against
another company, who, under claim of right, had obtained possession of the
road, - Hdd, 1. That the junior judgment creditor was not a necessary party,
although, before the bill was filed, he had put on record in the proper office
the sheriff's deed conveying the road to him pursuant to a sale under an execution sued out upon his judgment. 2. That he could not maintain ejectment
against the purchasers, under the decree directing the sale of the road to
satisfy the older judgment.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Wisconsin.
This is an action of ejectment brought by Charles Howard
against the Milwaukee and St. Paul Railway Company, to
recover certain parcels of ground on which the defendant's
railway and depots in the city of Milwaukee are situate. The
La Crosse and Milwaukee Railroad Company constructed this
end of its road in 1853-54, and erected its passenger and
freight depots and its warehouses and road tracks in that city
on the demanded premises. The latter have been in use since
1856 for railway purposes. Howard claims title under a deed
executed June 13, 1862, by the sheriff to him as the purchaser
for $7,500, at a sale which took place Jan. 15, 1859, under an
execution sued out on a judgment for $25,586.78 against the
latter company, and in favor of Sebre Howard, which was
recovered and docketed in the Circuit Court of Milwaukee
County, May 1, 1858. The deed was recorded Nov. 20, 1863,
in the office of the register of deeds of that county.
The defendant also claims title uncder a judicial sale. A judgment was rendered Oct. 7, 1857, for $111,727.21 in favor of
Newcomb Cleveland against the La Crosse and Milwaukee
Railroad Company by the District Court of the United States
for the Eastern District of Wisconsin. It was docketed on
that day, and by several mesne assignments transferred to
Frederick P. James.
That company executed its mortgage, dated June 21, 1858,
and recorded July 8 of that year, to William Barnes, to secure

HoWARD v. RAILWAY Co.

[Sup, Ot.

the bonds issued by it, amounting in the aggregate to $2,000,000.
A supplemental mortgage was executed to him by way of further security. Default having been made, the mortgaged property, including that now in controversy, was, with all the
franchises, rights, and privileges of the company, advertised
for sale, and sold to Barnes, May 21, 1859. He purchased the
same for $1,503,333.38, in trust for the bondholders, and they
organized a new corporation, under the name of the Milwaukee
and Minnesota Railroad Company, to which was transferred
all the property and the rights and franchises acquired by the
sale.
There was, however, a mortgage prior in date to both the
judgments above mentioned. It was executed Aug. 17, 1857,
by the La Crosse and Milwaukee Railroad Company to Bronson and Soutter to secure the payment of $1,000,000, and
covered the entire road and property of the company from
Milwaukee to Portage City. The mortgagees filed, Dec. 9,
,1859, their bill of foreclosure against that company, the Mil,Waukee and Minnesota Railroad Company, the plaintiff in this
suit, said Sebre Howard, and others, defendants. The court
passed a decree for the sale of the property, providing, however,
that if the last-named company should pay into court a certain sum of money for the complainants, possession should
be delivered to it of the eastern division of the La Crosse
and Milwaukee Railroad, being that portion of the road
from Milwaukee to Portage, upon said company executing a
bond to pay such sums of money as should come into the
hands of the company to satisfy the Howard and Chamberlain judgments, if they should be established as liens upon
the road. The -company was let into possession of the road,
and retained it until March 6, 1867. No sale was ever had
under this decree.
James and other creditors of the La Crosse and Milwaukee
Railroad Company filed their bill in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Wisconsin against
that company, and the Milwaukee and Minnesota Railroad
Company, praying that the sale to the latter company under
the mortgage to Barnes be set aside as fraudulent and void,
&c. This court, on appeal (6 Wall. 752), declared such sale to

Oct. 18T9.]

OOWARD V. RAILWAY 06.

be void, and pursuant to its mandate a decree was entered in
the lower court enjoining that company from setting up any
right or title to the property by virtue of its purchase under
that mortgage. Said James filed his bill, April 18, 1866, in
the court below against the Milwaukee and Minnesota Railroad
Company to enforce the lien, and have execution of the said
judgment, whereof he was the assignee, by a sale of the property, subject to certain liens and judgments thereon. A decree
was passed declaring that the judgment was a lien upon the
property, and fixing the amount due thereon; that the La
Crosse and Milwaukee Railroad Company had ceased to exist
as a corporation; and that the other company had succeeded
to its property, subject to all valid and subsisting liens and
incumbrances. The court further adjudged that all and singular the railroad formerly known as the La Crosse and Milwaukee Railroad, from Milwaukee to Portage City, its depots,
station-houses, and buildings, together with all its rolling-stock,
franchises, and appurtenances now in the possession of or
claimed by the Milwaukee and Minnesota Railroad Company,
be sold at public auction by the marshal of that district, unless
prior to such sale said defendant pay to said complainant, or
his solicitor, or to said marshal, the amount so as aforesaid
adjudged due said complainant, with interest and costs up to
the time of such payment; and that after such sale the company and all persons claiming or to claim from or under it
be for ever barred and foreclosed of and from all equity of
redemption and claim of, in, and to said railroad, rollingstock, franchises, and appurtenances, and every part and parcel
thereof.
The sale was made subject to said prior liens and incumbrances on the day prescribed by the decree, and was reported
to and confirmed by the court. The marshal thereupon executed a deed to the defendant, purchaser at said sale. It has
been ever since in possession of the premises.
Said Charles Howard was not a party to the said proceedings
and decree.
There was verdict for the defendant, and judgment having
been rendered thereon, Howard sued out this writ of error.
The remaining facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

HOWARD V. RALWAY

O.

[Sup.

e

Mr. H. H. Pinch for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. John F. Cary, contra.
MR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Possession of the lands in controversy was held by the defendants at the time laid in the declaration, as the road-bed,
depot site, and other structures of their railroad, at the described locality, and the plaintiff brought ejectment to recover
the premises, claiming title to the same by purchase at a sheriff's sale by virtue of a seizure to satisfy a judgment recovered
in the name of Sebre Howard against the original company
owning and operating the railroad and under which both parties claim title.
I Sufficient appears to show that the company became indebted to the judgment creditor in the sum of $25,000, and
gave him its promissory note for that amount. Payment
being refused, he sued the same, and on May 1, 1858, recovered judgment for the amount. Execution in due form
issued on the judgment, and the sheriff, by virtue thereof,
seized and sold the property to the plaintiff, Jan. 15, 1859, as
appears by the deed given in evidence.
Such a deed, it is claimed by the plaintiff, is by the law of
the State made primafacie evidence that the title of the person
against whom the judgment was rendered and by virtue of
which the sale and deed purport to have been made in the
lands and real estate described in the deed, passed to and
vested in the grantee in such deed, and this without making
other proof, either of the judgment or sale, than that furnished
by the deed. Laws Wis. (1869), 89; Ehie v. Brown, 81 Wis.
405, 412.
Title to the lands in controversy is also claimed by the
defendants through a purchase pursuant to a prior lien made
by a creditor of the company, under whom they claim, at a
sheriff's sale of a subsequent date, by virtue of an execution
issued on a judgment docketed Oct. 7, 1857, and the lawful
deed of the sheriff executed to the creditor in pursuance of
such sale. Without entering into details, suffice it to say that
the judgment was rendered against the company in that case
for $111,727.71, together with the costs of suit, and the evi-

Oct. 1879.]

HOWARD V. RAILWAY CO.

dence exhibited in the transcript shows that the title of the
judgment in due form of law passed to the defendants by
certain operative mesne assignments.
Suppose the law of the State to be such as is contended by
the plaintiff, it is plain that it is as applicable to the purchase
by the creditor under whom the defendants claim as to that
under which plaintiff claims title.
Service was made, and the defendants appeared and filed an
answer denying each and every allegation in the complaint or
declaration. Preliminary matters being settled, the parties
went to trial, and the verdict and judgment were in favor of
the defendants. Exceptions were filed by the plaintiff, and he
sued out the present writ of error and removed the cause into
this court for re-examination.
Since the cause was entered here, the plaintiff has assigned
errors pursuant to the rule making that requirement: 1. Five
of the assignments call in question the rulings of the Circuit Court in admitting evidence offered by the defendants.
2. Then follows the sixth assignment of error, which calls in
question the ruling of the court that the title of the lands in
controversy is in the defendants, and that the verdict of the
jury should be in their favor. 3. Thirty-three requests for
instruction were presented by the plaintiff, and he calls in
question the ruling of the court in refusing each one of those
requests.
When the plaintiff made the purchase under which he claims
title, there were subsisting liens upon the property prior in date
to the judgment for the satisfaction of which the sale was
made, to wit, a mortgage dated Aug. 17, 1857, executed by
the original company to Bronson and Soutter to secure the
payment of one million dollars, and a judgment in favor of
Newcomb Cleveland, dated Oct. 7, 1857, for the amount before described, and which was docketed on the day it was
rendered.
Bonds to the amount of two millions of dollars were issued
by the company, and June 21st of the next year they executed
a mortgage upon its railroad and property to William Barnes
as trustee, to secure the payment of those securities, and on the
11th of the next month they executed a supplemental morti-

HOWARD v. RAILWAY Co.

[Sup. Ct.

gage to the same party for the same purpose.' -Interest having
fallen due, which was not paid, the mortgage was foreclosed
by advertisement, and on the 21st of May of the next year all
the property, franchises, and rights of the mortgagor were
sold under the mortgage, and were bid off by the mortgagee in
trust for the bondholders. By virtue of that sale the bondholders and the mortgagee became the owners of the property,
franchises, and rights of the mortgagor, and they united two
days later in organizing a corporation under the statutes of the
State, which received the name of the Milwaukee and Minnesota Railroad Company, to which they transferred all the
rights and interests they acquired by that purchase.
Enough appears to show that the Bronson and Soutter mortgage covered the line of the road from Milwaukee to Portage
City, and it appears that the mortgagees, Dec. 9, 1859, filed a
bill in the District Court for the district to foreclose that mortgage, in which they made both the old corporation and the new
company, together with Sebre Howard and the plaintiff in the
present action, parties defendants in the suit. Somewhat protracted litigation followed, but it will be sufficient to say that it
culminated in a decree of sale, with an order that if the successor company should, before sale, pay into court certain sums
of money they should be let into possession of the'road, rollingstock, and other property of the old company from Milwaukee
to Portage City, subject to prior liens. Pursuant to that order
the new company paid the specified sums into court, and on
the same day took possession of the property, and managed and
operated it from that time until the same was sold to the
defendants.
Other judgment creditors of the old company, including
Frederick P. James, on the 22d of April, 1863, filed a bill in
the Circuit Court against the successor company, joining the
old company and Selah Chamberlain as parties respondent in
the suit. What the bill prayed was that the sale to the new
company might be decreed fraudulent, and that the company
should be enjoined from exercising any control over the property and franchises mentioned in the mortgage. Hearing was
had, and the bill was dismissed in the Circuit Court; but, on
appeal to the Supreme Court, the decree of the Circuit Court

Oct. 1879.]

OOWARD V. RAILWAY 00.

was reversed, and the cause remanded for a decree in favor of
the complainants.
It appears from the mandate that it was decreed that the
foreclosure and sale of the mortgage be set aside and annulled
as fraudulent, and that the new company was perpetually
enjoined from setting up any right or title under it to the railroad and other property sold under the mortgage, and that the
mortgage remain only as security for bonds issued under it in
the hands of bonafide holders without notice. Besides that, an
order of sale was contained in the decree, but no sale of the
railroad or property was ever made under that decree.
James became the assignee of the judgment rendered Oct.
7, 1857, in favor of Cleveland, and on the 18th of April, 1866,
be, the assignee, filed his bill in the Circuit Court against the
successor company to enforce the lien of that judgment, and to
have the property covered by the lien sold to pay the judgment
debt. Among other things, he set out the judgment, the mortgage, and the organization of the new company, and alleged
that the mortgage was fraudulent, and that the new company
was holding the property in fraud of the creditors of the original company, and prayed that the property might be sold to
satisfy the judgment, subject to certain prior liens and incumbrances.
Due process was served, and the respondent appeared and
filed an answer. Litigation followed, which resulted in a
decree that there was due to the complainant, as such assignee,
$98,801.51, and that the same was a lien and incumbrance as
of the date of Oct. 7, 1857, upon all the right, title, and interest which the original company had in and to the property situated between Milwaukee and Portage City. Provision was
also made in the decree for the sale of all that portion of the
railroad, the same being then in the possession of the successor
company, and that that company and all persons claiming
under it be barred from all equity of redemption. Explicit
recitals were contained in the decree that the original company
had ceased to exist as a corporation, and that the new company
had succeeded to its property, subject to subsisting liens and
incumbrances.
On the 2d of March, 1867, pursuant to that decree a sale

HOWARD V. RAILWAT 06.

I[Sup.

0f

'was made of the property by the marshal to the defendants for
the sum specified in the transcript, and three days later the
sale was confirned by the Circuit Court, when the defendants
xeceived their deed of the premises, duly executed by the marshal. Demand of possession was made by the purchasers on
-the following day, which was duly surrendered by the occupants, and the defendants .have continued to operate the road
to the present time.
Separate exception was taken to the introduction of each of
the documents offered by the defendants to prove the facts set
forth in the preceding statement, and those exceptions constiuate the basis of the first five assignments of error. Without
entering into details, suffice it to say in that regard that the
court is of the opinion that those assignments of error must be
,overruled, as it is clear that the entire evidence to which they
relate was admissible either to show the title of the defendants,
-orto explain the changes made in the name of the corporation,
or the regularity of the judgments, or the creation of the liens, or
the transfers of the titles, or regularity of the proceedings by
which the title was acquired or transmitted from one party to
nother.
Suppose that is so, still it is insisted by the plaintiff that the
Circuit Court erred in directing the jury to return a verdict for
the defendants, as specified in the sixth assignment of error.
SNone of the facts were in dispute, nor was there any conflict
of testimony. Nothing of the kind is pretended, as all the
naterial facts were exhibited in the documents given in evidence, consisting of judicial proceedings, mesne conveyances,
judicial sales, and written assignments or conveyances, leaving
nothing as an issue of fact to be determined by the jury.
Judges are forbidden to submit a question to the jury where
-there is no evidence to sustain the theory of the party making
the request, nor are they any longer required to do so even
-when there is some evidence to support the theory, unless the
evidence is of such a character that it would warrant the jury
-in finding a verdict in favor of the party presenting the request.

_Improvement Company v. Munson, 14 Wall. 442, 448;
v. Wombwell, Law Rep. 4 Ex. 82.

llyder

Both parties set up a lien as the foundation of their title,

Oct. 1879.]

O 9OWARD V. RAILWAY CO.

and it is undeniable that the judgment upon which the defendants rest their claim of title was rendered and docketed so as
to become a lien upon the premises in controversy more than
six months earlier than that which constitutes the basis of the
title claimed by the plaintiff. Nor can it benefit the plaintiff
in this litigation that he first took the necessary steps to enforce his lien, unless he can show that by some means the prior
lien of the defendants has been displaced or has become inoperative, which is not pretended. Priority of lien certainly gave
priority of legal right, just as in the case of a first and second
mortgage. Either may proceed in the case of mortgage, where
the condition is broken, to foreclose; but if the second mortgagee
proceeds first, his decree of foreclosure does not supersede or
impair the rights of the first mortgagee, nor did the proceedings
of the plaintiff to enforce the lien of his judgment have any
effect whatever to supersede or displace the prior lien under
which the defendants claim.
Concede that the judgment under which the defendants
claim is prior in time and legal effect, still it is suggested by
the plaintiff that it should have been enforced by seizure and
sale instead of by a proceeding in equity.
Pending that litigation the decree declaring the lien was
appealed to this court, and this court, Mr. Justice Nelson giving the opinion, decided that judgments, by the law of the
State, are liens on real estate, and that the judgment, being the
one now in question, became a lien on the road from the time
of its rendition, and that a sale under a decree in chancery and
a conveyance in pursuance thereof, confirmed by the court,
passed the whole of the interest of the company, existing at
the time of its rendition, to the purchaser. Railroad Company
v. Jacne8, 6 Wall. 750.
Weighed in view of that decision, it is clear that the suggestion of the plaintiff cannot be adopted.
Failing in that, his next suggestion is that he is not bound
by the decree, inasmuch as he was not made a party to the suit
which resulted in the decree, to which several answers may be
given: 1. That he was not a necessary party, even if within
the jurisdiction. 2. That he was not within the jurisdiction,
and did not ask to be made a party. 8. That the decree in the

HOWARD v. RAILWAY

Co.

[Sup. M

case, being a decree in equity, did not supersede or displace his
lien. 4. That the decree left him still the right, as second
lienholder, to redeem, which he may still do if his right is not
lost by laches or lapse of time.
Much discussion of the mortgage to the trustee to secure the
two millions of bonds is unnecessary, as it was subsequent in
date to the judgment of the plaintiff. Nor is it necessary to
add to what has already been remarked in respect to the foreclosure of the mortgage, as it left the judgment under which
the sale- to the plaintiff was enforced wholly unaffected as to
priority and as to any rights accruing from priority. Evidence
in that regard was not material to aid the alleged title of the
defendants in any respect, except to show the origin of the new
company and the transfer of the property from the old company to its successor.
Regular proceedings to foreclose the one million mortgage
was also instituted; but there was no sale under that decree,
the only result affected by it being to vest in the new company
the possession of the railroad and its appurtenances. By paying the amount ascertained as allowed by the court, the new
company acquired both the right of possession and the actual
possession of the mortgaged property, and to that extent at
least it stepped into the place of the old company as mortgagor,
and became by the decision of the court the owner of the
equity of redemption.
I Beyond doubt such was the primafacie effect of the proceeding, but the possession and interest acquired by the new company were during all the time subordinate and subject to
subsisting prior liens and incumbrances, among -vhich was the
judgment of the plaintiff as enforced by the prior sale. Prior
liens and incumbrances were not affected by that proceeding,
nor is it of much materiality in the present controversy, except
to show the relation which the new company bears to the railroad and property in question.
Questions of various kind arise in the case, but the main
question throughout is who holds the paramount legal title to
the property which the plaintiff seeks to recover by his action
of ejectment; and in determining that question it is evident
that the controlling inquiry is who has the prior lien, as it is

Oct. 1879.]

HOWARD v. RAILWAY 00.

clear that the sale- of the property by one having only a subsequent lien will not supersede or displace a prior lien held by
another; and it is equally clear that a sale in equity under a
prior lien will not impair any rights which belong to the bolder
of the subsequent lien, if the latter duly asserts his rights in
proper season. Such propositions cannot be successfully controverted; but the plaintiff contends that inasmuch as the new
company was enjoined from asserting any right or title to the
property on account of the fraudulent character of the proceeding, and inasmuch as the plaintiff was not a party to the proceeding to enforce the prior judgment against the old company,
that the defendants did not acquire any superior legal rights
by the sale under that decree.
Other suggestions of various kinds are made to show that
the sale under that decree is ineffectual to give effect to the
lien secured by the judgment; but the principal one is that the
plaintiff was not made a party to the proceeding, and has not
had his day in court, in opposition to the final decision which
ordered the sale. Mere equities are not involved in the controversy, but the court is required to deal with the strict legal
rights of the parties.
Frequent reference is made in argument to the fact that the
proceeding for the foreclosure of the larger mortgage was subsequently adjudged fraudulent, and to the injunction which followed; but it is nevertheless true that the new company was
duly organized, and that its actual existence as a corporation
has been recognized in repeated instances by the courts in litigations of great importance. It was recognized as such in the
proceeding to foreclose the smaller mortgage, and in the decree
or order of the court in letting the new company as such into
the possession of the railroad and its property, and throughout
the period, exceeding fourteen months, that its directors and
agents possessed, controlled, managed, and operated the railroad and all its fixtures and appurtenances. Public acts of the
kind cannot be overlooked, and it was recognized in the proceeding to enforce the lien of the judgment under which the
defendants claim title, both by the Circuit Court and the Supreme Court in three appeals here, as evidenced by the reported
decisions of this court. Railroad Companies v. Chamberlain,

HOWARD V. RAILWAY CO.

[Sup. Ct,

6 Wall. 748; .Railroad Company v. James, id. 750; James et
al. v. Railroad Company, id. 752.
Judicial recognitions of the kind are repugnant to the theory
of the plaintiff, to which it may be added that it was the new
company that was in possession of the property when the proceeding was commenced to enforce the lien of the judgment
under which the defendants claim title, and they were still in
actual possession of the same when the first decree was entered.
Complaint is made by the plaintiff that he was not made a
party to the proceeding, but the omission to make him a party
did not displace any lien he had upon the property, nor did it
give him any new or enlarged interest in the same. Coming
to the question of priority of legal title, the court must look at
the judgments from which the respective titles flow. In settling legal rights, the court must give the party superiority
whose lien was first acquired and perfected by an appropriate
proceeding.
By omitting to make the plaintiff a party to the equity proceeding to enforce their lien, the defendants did not deprive the
plaintiff of any legal right, nor was he cut off from any equitable rights which under the law had accrued to him in his position as a subsequent judgment creditor. Had the plaintiff
been in possession of the premises when the decree was rendered and when the sale was made, he could not have been
dispossessed by any process issued in the equity suit; the rule
being that the writ of assistance cannot go against a stranger
in a suit for foreclosure, and that the remedy of the party in
such a case is ejectment.
Grant all that, and still it is suggested that the plaintiff lost
his right to redeem which he could have exercised if the sale
had been made at law; but it is not admitted that the suggestion as to loss of remedy is well founded, as it is clear that he
might have had a remedy in equity after the sale as well as
before. Equity in such a case is a convenient remedy, and it
is obvious that the plaintiff could have filed his bill, and if
there had been no other difficulty than priority of lien the
court of equity would have granted him the right to redeem.
Subsequent incumbrancers, when not made parties to a bill
for foreclosure or sale, are not bound by the decree; nor is that

Oct. 1879.]

HOWARD

v. RAILWAY CO.

rule violated in the least degree when it is held that the title
of the defendants is paramount, as that consequence flows from
the fact that the lien of the judgment under which the defendants claim is prior to that under which the plaintiff claims his
title. Whatever rights the plaintiff had prior to the sale in
equity which gives the defendants the paramount title, he still
has, wholly unimpeached by that sale or by any other cause,
unless they are barred by lapse of time or laches.
Process against the plaintiff under that decree could not affect his rights, as he was not a party to the proceeding, consequently the lien of his judgment still remained in full force.
Even if the plaintiff had been made a party to that proceeding,
the only effect would have been to cut off his equity of redemption, and as he was not made a party, his equity of redemption
is not extinguished.
Authorities are scarcely needed to support these propositions,
it being universally admitted that writs of assistance can only
issue against parties affected by the decree, which is only saying that the execution cannot exceed the decree which it enforces, the rule being that the owner of property mortgaged
which is directed to be sold can only be barred when he has
had notice of the proceedings for its sale, if he acquired his
interest prior to their institution. Terrell v. Allison, 21 Wall.
289, 292.
Everybody admits the correctness of that rule; but it by no
means follows that the decree of sale in equity is void because
a second incumbrancer is not made a party to the proceeding,
as it is clear that his lien remains in full force notwithstanding
the decree of sale entered pursuant to such a proceeding.
Tested by these considerations, it follows that the sixth assignment of error must be overruled.
Most of the material matters involved in the seventh assignment of errors have already been sufficiently examined. Many
of the assignments of error under this number aimed to show
that the Circuit Court erred in refusing to adopt the theory of
the plaintiff, that certain portions of the premises in controversy occupied by the defendants for railroad tracks or as sites
for their depod and other structures are not necessary for the
purposes suggested, or that the title to the same did not pass
VOL. X1.

54

