REPORTS OF THE DECISIONS
OF THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
OCTOBER TERM, 1879.

NATIONAL BANK V. UNITED STATES.
1. Sect. 3113 of the revised Statutes, which enacts that "every national banking
association, State bank, or banker, or association, shall pay a tax of ten per
centum on the amount of notes of any town, city, or municipal corporation,
paid out by them," is not unconstitutional.
2. The tax thus laid is not on the notes, but on their use as a circulating medium.
3. Veazie Bank v. Fenno (8 Wall. 533) cited and approved.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Arkansas.
This is a suit by the United States to recover from the
Merchants' National Bank of Little Rock, Ark., $160,000,
being ten per cent on $1,600,000 of certain notes of the
City of Little Rock, which it was alleged the bank had paid
out during the years 1870, 1871, 1872, and 1873. The notes
were issued and put in circulation by the city, and used in
business and commercial transactions as money. They were
printed on bank-note paper in amounts ranking from $1 to
$100, and were payable to a person named or to bearer. By
an ordinance of the city, and also by an act of the legislature
of the State, they were receivable in payment of city taxes
and of all dues to the city.
Sect. 3413 of the Revised Statutes is as follows: "Every
national banking association, State bank, or banker, or assoVOL. X1.

I

NATIONAL BANK V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

ciation, shall pay a tax of ten per centum on the amount of
notes of any town, city, or municipal corporation, paid out by
them."
There was a verdict in favor of the United States for
$2,000; and judgment thereon having been rendered, the bank
thereupon sued out this writ of error.
.Mr. B. C. Brown for the plaintiff in error.
So far as, it seeks to impose a tax by the United States
upon the circulation or other use of the notes of a State municipal corporation, the statute in question is unconstitutional and
invalid.
The principle to which the plaintiff in error appeals is well
settled.
In our dual government, each- State and Federal- is
supreme in its own sphere. Each, in all its departments, may
devise and use its own means for the discharge of its duties
and the exercise of its powers, without hindrance from the
other. Neither may, directly or indirectly, by taxation or
otherwise, impede the other in the use of such means. MNcCullough v. The State of Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316; Weston v. City
Council of Charleston, 2 Pet. 449; -Dobbins v. Commissioners
of Brie County, 16 id. 435; Bank of Commerce v. _New York
City, 2 Black, 620; Bank Tax Case, 2 Wall. 200; Bradley v.
The People, 4 id. 459; The Banks v. Me Mayor, 7 id. 16;
Bank v. Supervisors, id. 26; The Collector v. Day, 11 id. 113;
United States v. Railroad Company, 17 id. 322; .ireedman
v. Sigel, 10 Blatch. 327; State v. Garton, 32 Ind. 1; Jones
v. Keep, 19 Wis. 369; Sayles v. Davis, 22 id. 229; .iifield v.
Close, 15 AMich. 505; In the Matter of Georgia, 12 Op. Att.Gen. 282.
A municipal corporation is a part of the State government,
and is protected from Federal taxation to the same extent and
in the same manner as the State itself. United States v. Railroad Company, supra.
This principle cannot be denied, but the United States will
contend that it does not relieve the bank from payment of the
tax.
That the tax is laid upon the municipality's notes and evidences of indebtedness, or rather upon it, cannot be denied.

Oct. 1879.]

NATIONAL BANK V. UNITED STATES.

In determining whether a tax falls within the prohibition, its
effect must be considered, and is decisive. In Railroad Cornpany v. Peniston (18 Wall. 5), the exemption of Federal agencies from State taxation was said to be dependent "upon the
effect of the tax; that is, upon the question whether the tax
does, in truth, deprive them of power to serve the government
as they were intended to serve it, or does hinder the efficient
exercise of their power." p. 86.
The effect of the tax in this case is apparent. The tax is
more burdensome than any which has ever come before the
court for determination. In all former cases, the tax was a
single specific one, ending on payment. This is a continuing
one, following the city's note wherever it may go, and never
ending or ceasing until the city abandons the attempt to
exercise its legitimate powers. In ten transfers, the national
government absorbs the whole value of all the notes issued
by the city. Each taker from the city must consider not only
the tax which he must pay, but also that which must be paid
by the person who takes it from him; for by each transfer, in
exchange for the obligations of the government, or of private
persons, or for articles purchased or in payment of debts, the
note, whether it be taken at a discount or a premium, or at
par, is "paid out," within the meaning of the act imposing this
tax.
The case most nearly analogous to this is Meston v. City
Council of Charleston, supra. The "stock" of the United
States and these "notes" are similar in every respect. Each
was the evidence of a governmental debt, contracted in the
exercise of the borrowing power. It is a mistake to call this a
tax upon the bank. The bank may be the paying agent, just
as in United States v. Railroad Company, supra. There the
railroad company was the paying .agent, but the tax, when
paid, fell upon Baltimore. In this it falls upon Little Rock.
The only material difference between Weston v. City Council of Charleston (supra) and the case at bar is, that there
the tax was imposed directly upon the stock, while here the
attempt is to arrest the city's notes in their circulation, and
prevent their passing from hand to hand, by affixing a tax
upon their transfer. The contention by the United States

NATIONAL BANK V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. 0t.

that this is not a tax upon the note is to argue that the national government may do indirectly what it cannot do directly.
The argument has been frequently met and answered by this
court. In the case last cited it was admitted that the power
of the government to borrow money could not be directly
opposed; but a distinction was taken, in argument, between
direct opposition and those measures which had ultimately the
same effect. The distinction was promptly repudiated by the
court.
If this is a tax which affects the notes of the city directly
or indirectly, it must be condemned; and that it is such there
can be no doubt. For it is the quality of transfer - of passing from hand to hand -which gives their chief value to the
notes or evidences of debt which are issued by the United
States or the smallest municipality. To say that Congress
cannot tax the paper, and yet may destroy the quality which
gives it value, is an evasion unworthy of any government.
As to the power of taxation, the rights and regulations of
the national and State governments are strictly correlative.
Each, as to the other, possesses the same rights and is bound
by the same restraints. If, without the power to tax the notes,
Congress may arrest their circulation by imposing a tax upon
the act of paying them out, the States may, with the same
right, impose a tax upon the act of paying out the national
currency, or upon the transfer of national obligations. If the
power exists upon one side, it does upon the other, and the
States may destroy the value of the notes or other obligations
of the national government, just as the United States, in this
case, destroyed the value of the notes of Little Rock.
It is said that the national banks being the creatures of
Congress, that body can impose upon them any prohibition,
or grant to them any privilege, - enforce the prohibition
by any penalty, or affix to the exercise of the privilege any
price; that the plaintiff in error, having violated the prohibition, must incur the penalty, or, having exercised the privilege,
pay the price. That argument does not affect this case, for
the reason that Congress neither imposed a prohibition upon,
nor granted a privilege to, national banks, in regard to the
matter in question. What it might have done, or could have

Oct. 1879.]

NATIONAL BANK V. UNITED STATES.

done, is not for consideration here. The question is, What
was done?
It seems clear that the argument of prohibition or privilege
gains nothing from the fact that the plaintiff in error is a national banking association, deriving its powers from the act of
Congress. While such associations are named, the tax is not
imposed upon them as a distinct class, but is intended to suppress the circulation and transfer of the notes of municipal corporations. If that effort cannot be sustained as to the other
corporations and persons named in the act, it must fail as to
all, national banks included.
Penalties are never implied. They must be directly prescribed by clear words, for courts will never find them by implication. The act contains neither prohibition, penalty, nor
privilege, and taxation implies neither. Youngblood v. Sexton,
cited in Cooley on Taxation, 404; A3c Guire v. T]7e Gommonwealth, 3 Wall. 382; Pervear v. The Gommonwealtkh, 5 id. 475.
Feazie Bank v. Fenno (8 Wall. 533), which upheld a statute
imposing a similar tax upon the paying out of the notes of a
State bank, presents a very different question. It is true, as
argued in that case, that the franchise of the Veazie Bank was
granted by a statute, but it was granted to private persons and
for private purposes. The notes of the bank were issued for
mere trading purposes. The notes of Little Rock were the
evidences of a debt, contracted for public uses by a branch of
the State government; and formed a part of the debt of the
State. A tax upon them in any- form is a tax upon the government of the State.
T]7e Solicitor-General, eontra, cited Veazie Bank v. Fenno,
8 Wall. 533.
MR. CmnF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The only question presented is as to the constitutionality of
sect. 3413 of the Revised Statutes, the objection being that
the tax is virtually laid upon an instrumentality of the State
of Arkansas.
We think this case comes directly within the principles set.
tled in Veazie Bank v. Fenno (8 Wall. 533), where it was

NATIONAL BANK V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

distinctly held that the tax imposed by that section on national
and State banks for paying out the notes of individuals or State
banks used for circulation was not unconstitutional. The reason
is thus stated by Mr. Chief Justice Chase: "Having thus, in
the exercise of undisputed constitutional powers, undertaken
to provide a currency for the whole country, it cannot be questioned that Congress may constitutionally secure the benefit
of it to the people by appropriate legislation. To this end
Congress has denied the quality of legal tender to foreign coins,
and has provided by law against the imposition of counterfeit
and base coin on the community. To the same end Congress
may restrain, by suitable enactments, the circulation as money
of any notes not issued under its authority. Without this
power, indeed, its attempts to secure a sound and uniform
currency for the country must be futile." p. 549.
The tax thus laid is not on the obligation, but on its use in
a particular way. As against the United States, a State municipality has no right to put its notes-in circulation as money.
It may execute its obligations, but cannot, against the will of
Congress, make them money. The tax is on the notes paid
out, that is, made use of as a circulating medium. Such a use
is against the policy of the United States. Therefore the
banker who helps to keep up the use by paying them out, that
is, employing them as the equivalent of money in discharging
his obligations, is taxed for what he does. The taxation was
no doubt intended to destroy the use; but that, as has just
been seen, Congress had the power to do.
Judgment affirmed.

