BANK OF AUERICA v. BANKS.

[Sup. Ot.

BANK OF AMERICA v. BAN-xS.
1. Lands in Mississippi belonging to a married woman, which she, at a stipulated
rent, leased to her husband, who entered thereon and cultivated them in his
own name and for his own benefit, are not, during the term, her plantation, within the meaning of the statute of that State which enacts that all
contracts of the husband and wife or either of them for supplies for her
plantation may be "enforced, and satisfaction secured out of her separate
estate."
2. A contract for-such supplies will not bind the separate property of the wife,
unless she be the beneficiary of the cultivation, and-they in fact are purchased for her account and benefit.
3. A parol lease of lands in Mississippi for one year, made by a woman to her
husband, is not invalid.
4. The recital in a deed of trust of her separate estate, executed by her and her
husband, that it is given to secure her indebtedness, evidenced by her and
his notes, does not estop her from showing that they were given for supplies furnished for a plantation, which he cultivated in his name and for
his benefit.
5. In order to work an estoppel, the parties to a deed must be suijuriscompetent
to make it effectual as a contract.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Mississippi.
The fadts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. *W B. Pittman for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. James B. Chalmers, contra.
MR. JUsTcE CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Married women, as the code of the State provides, may rent
their lands or make any contract for the use of the same, and
may loan their money and take securities for its payment, and
employ it in trade or business; and the express enactment is
that all contracts made by the husband and wife, or by either
of them, to obtain supplies for the plantation of the wife, may
be enforced and satisfaction secured out of her separate estate.
Provision is also made that when a married woman engages in
trade or business as afeme sole she shall be bound by her contracts made -in the course of such trade or business, in the
same manner as if she was unmarried. Code (Miss. 1871),
sect. 1780.

Oct. 1879.]

BANK OF AmIIERICA V. BANKS.

Sufficient appears to show that Virginia Banks, one of the
defendants, is a married woman, and that A. D. Banks, the
other defendant, is her husband; that they executed three
promissory notes, each for the sum of $2,000, payable to their
own order, and that they indorsed the same in blank ; and that
the Bank of America, the plaintiff, is the lawful holder of the
several notes. Payment being refused, the plaintiff instituted
the present suit, and prays judgment for the amount against
her separate property.
Process having been served, the defendants appeared and
pleaded three pleas in answer to the declaration: 1. That they
never promised in manner and form as alleged. 2. That they
had fully paid and satisfied the notes before the suit was instituted. 3. That said Virginia, when the notes were made and
indorsed, was a married woman, and that the same were made
and indorsed by her as the surety and accommodation indorser
of her husband, for the purpose of enabling him to obtain
money to carry on a plantation cultivated by him and not
by his wife, and that the notes were not made and indorsed
in payment of money and supplies furnished to the wife to
enable her to cultivate a plantation belonging to her as her
separate property, in accordance with a contract made to that
effect with the plaintiff, and that the notes and indorsements
as to her are without legal consideration, and that she is not
liable to pay the same.
Prepayment was denied by the bank. In its replication to
the third plea of the defendants, it avers that the notes described in the declaration were not made and indorsed by the
wife as an accommodation surety for the husband, as alleged in
the third plea. Instead of that, it alleges that the notes were
made and indorsed by her in payment of necessary plantation
supplies to enable her to cultivate her separate plantation ; that
the same were furnished and delivered to her by certain commission merchants; and that the notes were given for the payment of such plantation and family supplies and necessaries for
family use as a married woman is allowed by law to purchase
on credit and to bind her separate estate therefor.
Leave to amend the declaration and replications was subsequently granted to the plaintiff, and it appears that amended
VOL. X1.

16

BANK OF AMERICA

v.

BANKS.

[Sup. Ct.

counts were filed in" pursuance of the authority granted; but
it is not necessary to reproduce the new pleadings, as they
do not vary the material issues between the parties. Continuance followed, when the parties entered into a stipulation to
waive a jury, and that the matters of fact, as'well as of law,
should be tried by the court. Hearing was had, and the findings of the Circuit Court are as follows: 1. That the husband
was discharged before the commencement of the suit from all
liability upon the notes, as alleged in his plea. 2. That said
Virginia was a married woman at the time she executed the
notes, and the wife of the other defendant, as averred in
defence. 3. That the notes were executed not to secure any
existing indebtedness, but as a security for such advances in
money and supplies as the parties to whom the notes were
delivered might thereafter make upon the order of the husband,
for plantation purposes. 4. That the parties to whom the
notes were delivered did thereafter make large advances to the
husband, in money and supplies, that remain unpaid, of which
an,amount as large in value as the aggregate of the three notes
was forwarded to the parties and used in the cultivation of two
plantations owned by the wife and her two children by a former marriage; that the husband was -cultivating those two
plantations during the year in question, on his own account
and in his own name, under a verbal contract of lease made by
him with his wife for a stipulated money rent. 6. No proof
was exhibited that the parties to whom the notes were delivered or the plaintiff knew whether the wife was or was not
interested in such plantation enterprise; but the court finds
that they did know of her interest in the property of the plantations, and that the whole of the account was kept in the name
of one of the plantations, and that it contained many items for
supplies furnished for another plantation in the cultivation of
which the husband was interested, and other items having no
relation to plantation matters. 6. That a deed of trust of one
of the plantations was executed by the husband and wife contemporaneously with the making of the notes to secure the
payment of the same, in which it is recited that it is made to
secure the indebtedness of the wife. Based on these findings,
the Circuit Court rendered judgment for the defendants; and

Oct. 1879.]

BANK OF AMERIOA V. BANKS.

the plaintiff excepted, and sued out the present writ of error.
All the facts are found by the court, and the only error assigned
is that the court misapplied the law to the facts.
Marriage, by the rules of the common law, gave the husband
a freehold tenure in the estates of inheritance in land of the
wife, and the right to the rents and profits during their joint
lives. During coverture the husband must sue in his own
name for any injury to the profits of the land, but for an injury
to the inheritance it was required that the wife must join in the
action. 2 Kent, Com. (12th ed.) 131.
Money, goods, and personal chattels in possession vested
absolutely in the husband, and became his property as completely as property purchased with his own money; and such
property never went back to the wife unless given to her by
the husband in his lifetime or by his will, and in case of his
death it vested in his executors. Choses in action did not vest
absolutely in the husband, but he acquired the power to sue for
and recover or release or assign the same, and when recovered
and reduced to possession, and not otheiwise, the money in
most cases became absolutely his own.
Husband and wife during coverture were regarded as one
person at common law in most respects, from which it followed
as a general rule that the wife could neither sue nor be sued
without joining her husband. Great changes in the rules of
the common law in that regard were made, even before the
colonies separated from the parent country. Deeds of indenture in transferring the real property of the wife, with the consent of the husband, were substituted in the place of fine and
recovery; and when it became settled that the wife might hold
a separate estate, many other exceptions to the rule that she
could neither sue nor be sued without joining the husband were
sanctioned by judicial authority.
Exceptions almost without number have been admitted by
the courts, and many more have been added to the catalogue
by legislation, until in some jurisdictions it is difficult to say
that there is any thing left of the ancient rule. Questions of
the kind in the State of Mississippi depend almost entirely upon
statute regulations and the decisions of the State courts in construing those provisions.

BANK Op AMERICA.

v.

BANKS.

[Sup. Or.

Contracts made by the wife at the period mentioned in the
declaration, or by the husband with her consent, for family supplies or necessaries, including wearing-apparel of herself and of
her children, or for their education, or for.buildings on her land
or premises and the materials therefor, or for work and labor
done for the use, benefit, or improvement of her separate estate,
were by statute declared to be binding on her, and that satisfaction might be had for the same out of her separate property.
Code 1857, sect. 25, p. 336.
Supplies for the comfort, convenience, and maintenance of the
family and the education of her children must be contracted
for by the wife, and, if not purchased directly by her but by the
husband, they imposed no liability on her separate property,
unless the husband had her consent to act. Unlike that, the
rule is that supplies for her plantation, or for the repairs or
improvement of her separate estate, or for work, labor, and services in cultivating the same, the contracts may be made by
husband and wife, or either of them. Clopton v. Afatheny, 48
Miss. 286, 295.
Orders for supplies to her plantation, if filled, bind the separate property of the wife, whether bought by herself or her
husband with or without her consent, the rule being in that
State that the husband is for that purpose the agent of the wife
in invitum, and that he is made so by legislative enactment.
Code 1871, sect. 1780; id. 1857, 336. Her separate estate is
bound for such supplies, even when purchased by the husband
without her direction. Cook v. Ligon, 54 Miss. 368, 373.
. Nothing, say the court in that case, will discharge her estate
save an express contract that it shall be released, or something
equivalent to it. Neither the acceptance of the note of the husband nor the recovery of the judgment on such note will have
that effect. Plantation supplies may include money advanced
for the purpose of purchasing the same, -farming utensils,
working stock, or other things necessary for the cultivation of a
farm or plantation, -which latter designation must depend upon
the usage and custom of agricultural pursuits. Herman &. Co.
v. Perkins, 52 id. 813.
Express statutory provision exist$ in the State that a married
woman may rent her lands or make any contract for the use

Oct. 1879.]

BANK OF AuERICA v. BANKS.

thereof, and may loan money in her own name, take securities
therefor, and employ it in trade or business; and it is equally
clear that she may rent her separate estate to her husband as
well as to strangers. 1obinson, Stevens v. Powell, Sup. Court
Miss., not reported.
Beyond doubt, the two plantations belonged to the wife and
her two children by a former marriage, but it is equally certain
that the husband cultivated the same, during the year in question, on his own account and in his own name, under a verbal
contract of lease made by him with his wife for a stipulated
money rent. Supplies for the plantation of the wife, whether
purchased by her or by the husband, bind her separate estate;
and if she had cultivated these two plantations during the year
referred to, the plaintiff would be correct, but the finding of the
Circuit Court shows conclusively that she did not cultivate
either of them during that year. Her authority to lease th6
premises is not denied, and the finding of the court establishes
the fact that she did not cultivate either plantation during the
period when these supplies were furnished.
Leased premises cultivated by the husband in his own name
and for his own benefit are not plantations of the wife, within
the meaning of the section of the statute which enacts that all
contracts made by the husband and wife, or by either of them,
may be enforced and satisfaction had out of her separate estate.
Code 1871, sect. 1780; Code 1857, p. 836.
Nor is the contract in this case one made by the husband
with the consent of the wife, which may also be satisfied out of
her separate property. Nothing of the kind is pretended; and
if it were, it could not be supported for a moment, as the findings of the court do not contain any thing to give such a proposition the least countenance whatever.
Suppose the plantations were leased to the husband and were
cultivated by him that season in his own name and for his own
benefit, still it is suggested by the plaintiff that neither the
party to whom the notes were delivered nor themselves had any
knowledge of the lease, or that the husband purchased the supplies without the consent of the wife or authority of law. Even
if that be conceded, it will not benefit the plaintiff, as it only
shows that it acted improvidently and without due caution, the

BANK OF AmERICA

v.

BANKS.

[sup. ot.

settled decision of the courts of the State being that the pro-vision that makes the husband the agent of the wife to purchase
plantation supplies for her plantation applies only to those
plantations which are cultivated for the wife's account and
benefit, and not to those she has leased and which are in the
possession and under the control of the tenant. Grubbs v. Collins, 54 Miss. 485, 489.
Enough appears in the findings of the court to show that the
plantations were in the exclusive control of the husband, and
that the supplies were procured for the use of his employgs, and
that they were not plantation supplies for account or benefit of
the wife. Neither the words of the statute nor the decisions
of the State courts permit such a contract to be enforced against
the separate property of the married woman. In order that
the contract may bind the separate property of the wife, she
must be the beneficiary of the cultivation, and the supplies
must in fact have been purchased for her account and benefit.
Her plantation, says Simrall, C. J., is the predicate of her power
to make the contract, and, he adds, that a false representation
that she has such property will not estop her from averring that
the fact is otherwise.
Nor does the statute oblige her to pay for property purchased
on credit, the rule being that such an obligation cannot be enforced. Contracts made in the purchase of supplies for the
cultivation of her own plantation, where the cultivation is on
her own account and for her own benefit, may be enforced
against her separate property. Previously, says the Chief Justice, the word was used by the law-maker to include all those
things required and used by the planter in the production and
preparation of the crops for consumption and sale.
If it be said that the family must be supported, and that the
term ought to embrace food and raiment" for them, the answer
to the suggestion is furnished by a subsequent part of the same
section, which provides that supplies, necessaries, and conveniences for the family are not necessarily chargeable on the
wife's property. She is not liable for such expenses, unless she
bargains to be, or unless the husband, with her consent, buys
them on her account. Wright v. Walton, Sup. Court, Miss., not
yet reported. Verbal contracts of lease, not exceeding the

Oct. 1879.]

WATT v. STARKE.

term of one year, are valid by the laws of the State. Code
1871, sect. 2892.
Much discussion of the question of estoppel is unnecessary,
as it is clear that a married woman cannot, by her own act,
enlarge her capacity to convey or bind her separate estate.
Palmer v. Cross, 1 Smed. & M. (Miss.) 46.
Facts recited in an instrument may be controverted by the
other party in an action not founded on the same instrument,
but wholly collateral to it. Recitals of the kind may be evidence for the party instituting the suit, but they are not
conclusive. Carpenterv. Buller, 8 Mee. & W. 209, 213; Herman, Estoppel, sect. 238; Lowell v. Daniels, 2 Gray (Mass.),
161, 169; Champlain v. Valentine, 19 Barb. (N. Y.) 485,
488.
In order to work an estoppel, the parties to a deed must be
8uijuris competent to make it effectual as a contract. Hence
a married woman is not estopped by her covenants. Plainly
the wife was not competent to purchase supplies for the plantation of the husband, and therefore cannot be estopped by these
recitals. Bigelow, Estoppel, 276 ; Jackson V. Vanderheyden, 17
Johns. (N. Y.) 167.
Viewed in the light of these suggestions, it is clear that there
is no error in the record. Tyler, Inf. and Coy. 726.
Judgment affirmed.

WATT v. STARKE.
1. The verdict upon an issue which a court of chancery directs to be tried at law
is merely advisory. A motion for a new trial can be made only to that
court, and the party submitting it must procure, for the use of the Chancellor, notes of the proceedings at the trial, and of the evidence there given.
2. The evidence and proceedings become then a part of the record, and are subject to review by the appellate court should an appeal from the decree be

taken.
3. These rules are not affected by the second section of the act of Feb. 16, 1875
(18 Stat., part 3, p. 315), which provides that in a patent case the Circuit
Court, when sitting in equity, may inpanel a jury and submit to them such
questions of fact as it may deem expedient.

4. Harm= v. Johnson (94 U. S. 371) reaffirmed.

