MEGUIRE V. CORWINE.

[Sup. Ct.

MEGUIRE V. CORWIME.
A contract is contrary to public policy, and void, whereby, in consideration of
A.'s procuring B's appointment as special counsel in certain causes against
the United States, and aiding him in managing the defence of them, B. agrees
that he will pay A. one-half of the fee which he may receive from the government.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Frederick P. Stanton for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Enoch Totten for the defendant in en-or.
MR. JUSTICE SwAY-EE delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in the court below is the plaintiff in error here.
The first count of the declaration avers that in consideration
of the assistance to be rendered by him to the defendants' testator in procuring him to be appointed special counsel of the
United States in certain litigated cases known as the "Farragut prize cases," and also in consideration of the assistance to
be rendered by the plaintiff in managing and carrying on the
defence in those cases, - which assistance was accordingly rendered, - the testator promised the plaintiff to pay him one-half
of all fees which the testator should receive as such special
counsel, and that the testator did receive as such special counsel in those cases $29,950, of which sum the plaintiff was
entitled to be paid one-half, &c.
The second count is substantially the same with the first,
except that it avers the consideration of the contract to have
been the assistance to be rendered by the plaintiff in the defence of the cases named, and is silent as to the stipulation
that he was to assist in procuring the appointment of the testator as special counsel for the government.
The third is a common count alleging the indebtedness of
the testator to the defendant for work and labor to the amount
of $12,975.
It appears by the bill of exceptions that the plaintiff called
three witnesses to establish the contract upon which he sought
to recover. Lovel testified that "the testator also stated that

Oct. 1879.]

MEGUIRE V. CORWINE.

he had agreed to pay the plaintiff one-half of all the fees he
should receive in said cases, for his aid in getting the appointment of special counsel and for the assistance which the
plaintiff was to render in procuring testimony and giving information for the management of the defence in said cases."
"On cross-examination, the witness said he knew, before his
said conversation with R. M. Corwine, and before Corwine
was employed, that Mr. Mleguire, the plaintiff, had the selection of counsel in said cases, the Treasury Department only
restricting him to the selection of a man who was familiar
with admiralty practice, and Mr. Mleguire was to utilize the
information he professed to have at that time. The bargain,
as witness understood it, was that in consideration of Meguire's
procuring Corwine to be employed as special counsel in those
cases, and of assisting him in getting evidence and information,
Corwine agreed to pay to the plaintiff (Mleguire) one-half of
the fees which he (Corwine) might receive from the United
States for services in said cases.
"The plaintiff then called Lewis S. Wells, another witness
in his behalf, who, being duly sworn, stated that since the
commencement of this suit -he thought some time last yearhe met the testator (R. M. Corwine, deceased) in the Treasury
Department, and had a conversation with him about the plaintiff and the Farragut cases. Mr. Corwine was very angry,
and said that he had agreed to pay Mr. Meguire one-half of
his fees in the Farragut cases, and had paid him one-half the
retainer received in 1869, and 94,000 in July, 1873, and had
taken his receipt in full. That he had found out that plaintiff
had not been the means of his appointment as special counsel,
and he thought he had paid the plaintiff enough."
Wells testified further that upon two occasions the testator
told him the plaintiff was assisting him in the preparation of
the defence in the Farragut cases, and that he had agreed to
pay to the plaintiff one-half of his fees for the plaintiff's services. This is all that is found in the record touching the
terms and consideration of the contract. It was in proof by a
late solicitor of the treasury that the plaintiff strongly urged
on him the employment of the testator as special counsel, and
that at the instance of the plaintiff he called the attention of

MEGUIRE V. CORWINE.

[Sup. Ct.

the Secretary of the Treasury to the subject, and that the appointment of the testator was thus brought about. The plaintiff had been a clerk in New Orleans, in the office of Colonel
Holabird, Chief Quartermaster of the Department of the Gulf,
during the war, and had possession of Ilolabird's papers, from
which he derived the facts communicated to the testator for
the defence of government in the prize suits in question. It
was not controverted that the amount of fees received by the
testator was $25,950, and that he paid over to the plaintiff
$4,475 before the breach occurred between them. The further
sum of $8,500 was claimed by the plaintiff, and this suit was
brought to recover it. The learned counsel for plaintiff in
error complains in his brief that "in the charge of the court,
page 10, the jury were instructed that ' the contract set out in
the first count of the declaration was illegal and void, and that
the plaintiff could not recover on the second count unless the
jury should find that the parties made another and a distinct
contract;' 'and in the first instruction asked by the defendants
and given by the court the jury were told that such an arrangement is void, because it is contrary to public policy, and
the plaintiff cannot recover in any form of action for any
services rendered or labor performed in pursuance thereof.'
. . I' There can be no doubt that this charge was fatal to the
plaintiff's whole case. The jury were not allowed to infer, as
they well might have done from the testimony of more than
one of the witnesses, that the testator, after his appointment
as special counsel, recognized an implied agreement to pay the
plaintiff half of his fees for the services of the latter rendered
during the progress of the business.'"
In our view of the record this is the turning-point of the
case. The objection taken to the instructions referred to is
not so much to them in the abstract as the concrete. The
complaint is that they closed the door against the inference of
another contract which the jury might have drawn from the
testimony in the case. To this there are several answers. If
there were such testimony, it should have been set forth in the
record. After a careful examination, we have been unable to
find any. The instructions expressly saved the right of the
jury to find another and a different contract, and their atten-

Oct. 1879.]

MEGUIRE V. CORWINE.

tion was called to the subject. They found none. The contract objected to by the court as fatally tainted was proved by
witnesses called by the plaintiff himself. He neither proved
nor attempted to prove any other. It was, then, neither
claimed nor intimated that any other had been made. After
the views of the court were announced, it was too late for the
plaintiff to change his position and claim for the jury the right
to wander at large in the field of conjecture and find as a fact
what the evidence wholly failed to establish, and which, if
found, would have thrown on the court the necessity to set
aside the verdict and award a new trial.
A judge has no right to submit a question where the state of
the evidence forbids it. Michigan Bank v. Eldred, 9 Wall.
544. On the contrary, where there is an entire absence of
testimony, or it is all one way, and its conclusiveness is free
from doubt, it is competent for the court to direct the jury to
find accordingly. JIerchants' Bank v. State Bank, 10 id. 604.
The practice condemned in Michigan Bank v. Eldred is
fraught with evil. It tends to create doubts which otherwise
might not, and ought not to exist, and may confuse the minds
of the jury and lead them to wrong conclusions. If the instructions here under consideration are liable to any criticism, it is
that they were more favorable to the plaintiff in error than he
had a right to claim.
The law touching contracts like the one here in question has
been often considered by this court, and is well settled by our
adjudications. iMfarshall v. Baltimore &. Ohio _ailroad Co.,
16 How. 314; Tool Company v. lVorris, 2 Wall. 45; Trist v.
Child, 21 id. 441; Coppell v. Hall, 7 id. 542. It cannot be
necessary to go over the same ground again. To do so would
be a waste of time. The object of this opinion is rather to
vindicate the application of our former rulings to this record than
to give them new support. They do not need it. Frauds of
the class to which the one here disclosed belongs are an unmixed evil. Whether forbidden by a statute or condemned by
public policy, the result is the same. No legal right can
spring from such a source. They are the sappers and miners
of the public welfare, and of free government as well. The
latter depends for its vitality upon the virtue and good faith of

112

MARKET

Co. v. HOFFMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

those for whom it exists, and of those by whom it is administered. Corruption is always the forerunner of despotism.
In Trist v. Child (supra), while recognizing the validity of an
honest claim for services honestly rendered, this court said:
"But they are blended and confused with those which are
forbidden: the whole is a unit, and indivisible. That which is
bad destroys that which is good, and they perish together.
. . Where the taint exists it affects fatally, in all its parts,
the entire body of the contract. In all such cases potior conditio defendentis.. Where there is turpitude, the law will help
neither party." These remarks apply here. The contract is
clearly illegal, and this action was brought to enforce it. This
conclusion renders it unnecessary to consider the plaintiff's
other assignments of error. The case being fundamentally
and fatally defective, he could not recover. Conceding all his
exceptions, other than those we have considered, to be well
taken, the errors committed could have done him no harm, and
opposite rulings would have done him no good. In either view,
these alleged errors are an immaterial element in the case.
Barth v. (lise, Sheriff, 12 Wall. 400.
Judgment afyirmed.
*

MARKET COMrPANY V. HOFFmAx.
1. Pursuant to the authority conferred by its charter, granted by an act of Congress approved May 20, 1870 (16 Stat. 124), the Washington Market Com.
pany offered to the highest bidder at public auction the stalls in the market
for a specific term, subject to the payment of a stipulated annual rent. At
the expiration of that term, A., one of such bidders, filed his bill to enjoin the company from selling the stall leased to him, claiming that he
had the right to occupy it as long as he chose in carrying on his business
as a butcher, provided that lie thereafter paid the rent as it from time to
time should become due. Held, that A.'s right of occupancy ceased with

the term. and that the company had the right to offer the stall for sale
to the highest bidder.
2. Where a number of bidders filed such a bill, the value of the right to sell,
which the company claimed and the court below denied, determines the
jurisdiction here. Where, therefore, a sale which would have produced
more than $2,500 was enjoined by the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia, the company is entitled to an appeal, under the act of Feb. 25,
1879. 20 Stat. 320.

