Oct. 1879.]

CRAMIPTON V. ZABRISKIE.

one case becafise the die was furnished, and refused in the other
because it was not.
Error must be affirmatively shown. It is not to be presumed.
Judgment affirmed.

CRAMPTON V. ZABRISKIE.
1. Under the laws of New Jersey, the Board of Chosen Freeholders of the
County of Hudson had no authority, Dec. 14, 1876, to purchase lands
whereon to erect a court-house, and to issue in payment therefor bonds
payable out of the amount appropriated and limited for the fiscal year
commencing Dec. 1, 1877.
2. Unless otherwise provided by legislative enactment, a resident tax-payer has
the right to invoke the interposition of a court of equity to prevent an illegal disposition of the moneys of the county, or the illegal creation of a debt
which he in common with other property-holders may otherwise be compelled to pay.
3. After the Supreme Court of New Jersey had decided that the resolution
adopted by the board for such purchase and payment was illegal, A., the
vendor of the lands, brought an action on said bonds against the board.
Thereupon certain resident tax-payers filed their bill, praying that A. be restrained from prosecuting that action or one to recover the value of the
lands; that the board be enjoined from paying the bonds, and directed to
convey the lands to A., and that he be required to accept a deed therefor.
Held, that they were entitled to the relief prayed for.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of New Jersey.
"The Board of Chosen Freeholders of the County of Hudson," in the State of New Jersey, adopted, Dec. 14, 1876, a
resolution for the purchase of certain lots in Jersey City, on
which to erect a court-house and offices for the county, at the
price of $2,000 for each twenty-five hundred square feet. In
payment therefor the county was to issue to the owner of them
bonds "payable out of the amount appropriated and limited
for the expense of the next fiscal year; said bonds to run one
year from the date thereof, and bearing interest at the rate of
seven per cent per annum."
Crampton, the owner, in accordance with the terms of the
resolution, accepted the proposition of purchase, and delivered,
Dec. 22, 1876, to the board a duly executed deed for the lots,

602

[SUP.. Ct.

CRAMPTON V. ZABRISKIE.

bearing date the 18th of that month. The board accepted
it, caused it to be duly recorded in the register's office of the
county, and delivered to Crampton three several bonds for the
purchase-money, amounting to $225,720.
One of the bonds is as follows: " $75,000.
"STATE

OF NEW JERSEY, COUNTY OF HUDSON.

"No. 1.
"TEMPORARY

LOAN BOARD.

"Know all men by these presents, that the Board of Chosen Freeholders of the county of Hudson acknowledge themselves indebted,
for value received, to MAhlon B. Crampton, in the sum of seventyfive thousand dollars, lawful money of the United States of America, to be paid to the said Mahlon B. Crampton, at the county
collector's office in the county of Hudson, on the eighteenth day of
December, one thousand eight hundred and seventy-seven, with
interest thereon from'the date of these pvesents, at the rate of
seven per cent per annum, payable annually.
"This bond being executed and issued in pursuance
of a resolution of the said board passed the fourteenth day of December,
A.D.

1876, and approved by the director at large Dec. 16, 1876,

authorizing the county collector to issue the same for the use of the
county in payment for land purchased by said board in pursuance
of said resolution.
"In witness whereof, the' Board of Chosen Freeholders of the
County of Hudson have hereunto -affixed their corporate seal and
caused these presents to be signed by their director at large this
twenty-second day of December, eighteen hundred and seventy-six.
[EL.s.]

"E. W. KNGSLAND,
"County Collector of the County of Hudson.

"D. C.

HALSTED,

at large,

"Director of the Board of Chosen Freeholders of the County of Hudson.

(On the margin:) "Board of Chosen Freeholders Hudson County."
The other bonds are of the same purport, except that one
of them is for $75,720. Crampton assigned the latter to one
Harrison, who, in consideration thereof, released the lots from
a mortgage in his favor to which they were subject.
Crampton, March 13, 1878, brought suit against the board on

Oct. 1879.]

ORAMPTON V. ZABRISKIE.

the other bonds in the court below. Zabriskie and two other resident tax-payers of the county thereupon filed their bill of complaint on the equity side of that court, praying that the bonds
be declared void and be delivered up, that the board be ordered to reconvey the property to Crampton, and that he be
enjoined from prosecuting an action on or parting with the
bonds in any other way than by surrendering them to the board.
The bill alleges that Siedler and other tax-payers of the county
applied to the Supreme Court of the State by writ of certiorari
for relief against said resolution and purchase, and that the
court, by its final judgment rendered Nov. 22, 1877, declared
that said resolution was illegal and void. It further~alleges
that the lots should have been then conveyed to Crampton and
the bonds surrendered to the board, "but that nothing had been
done by either in the matter."
Crampton sets up that the transaction between him and the
board was in all respects lawful, that he was not a party to
the proceedings before the Supreme Court, that it was not his
duty to surrender the bonds, and that if the latter are void,
the defence is available at law.
The court below, Oct. 1, 1879, rendered a decree in accordance with the prayer of the bill, and also restrained Crampton from suing for the value of the lots. He thereupon
appealed.
The boards of chosen freeholders are created by the act of
April 16, 1846, bodies corporate and politic, and invested with
certain powers, among which is that of purchasing, receiving,
and holding lands in trust to and for the use of the respective
counties.
Under the fourth section, it is the duty of the board at its
stated annual meeting, or at any other meeting held for the purpose, to vote, grant, and raise such sums of money as it deems
necessary and proper for the building of jails and court-houses,
and doing, fulfilling, and executing all the legal purposes, objects, and business of the county; and, after it has passed an
order or grant for the raising of any sum of money, it is required by the twelfth section to direct, in writing, the assessors of the several townships to assess the said sum or sums
on the inhabitants and their estates, agreeably to the law for

1604

CRAMPTON V. ZABRISKIE.

[Sup. CL.

the time being, for the raising of money by taxation for the

use of the State.
Whenever the needs of the county require it, the thirteenth
section authorizes the board to assess and collect money by
taxation, for the use of the county, at a different time from the
assessment for the State tax.
An act approved Feb. 26, 1874, designates the 1st of December as the commencement of the fiscal year of the board
for the county of Hudson; and its fifth section provides "that
the expenditures of the board of chosen freeholders in any fiscal year shall not exceed the amount raised by tax for said
year, unless by the spread of an epidemic or contagious disease a greater expenditure shall be required for the protection
of the public health, and the board may fix the amount to be
raisgd by tax for county purposes at any meeting of said board
held prior to July (16th)' fifteenth in any year."
The following act of the legislature was. approved Feb. 7,
1876:",ASupplement to an act entitled '.An Act for the punishment of
crimes,' approved farch twenty-seventh, eighteen hundredand
seventy-four.
"1. Be it enacted by the Senate and General Assembly of the
State of New Jersey, that if any board of chosen freeholders, or any
township committee, or any board of aldermen or common councilmen, or any board of education, or any board of commissioners of
any county, township, city, town, or borough in this State, or any
committee or member of any such board or commission, shall disburse, order or vote for the disbursement of public moneys, in
excess of the appropriation respectively, to any such board or
committee, or shall incur obligations in excess of the appropriation and limit of expenditure provided by law for the purposes
respectively of any such board or committee, the members thereof,
and each member thereof, thus disbursing, ordering or voting for
the disbursement and expenditure of public moneys, or thus incurring obligations in excess of the amount appropriated and limit
of expenditure as now or hereafter appropriated and limited by
law, shall be severally deemed guilty of malfeasance in office,
and on being thereof convicted shall be punished by fine not
exceeding one thousand dollars or imprisonment at hard labor for

Oct. 1879.]

CRAMPTON V. ZABRISKIE.

any term not exceeding three years, or both, at the discretion of the
court.
"2. And be it enacted, that this act shall take effect immediately."
The members of the Board of Chosen Freeholders are
elected at the spring charter and township elections, and hold
their offices for one year commencing in May and until their
successors are chosen and legally qualified.
It does not appear that the board at any meeting prior to
July 15, 1877, included in the amount to be raised by taxation
the purchase-money for the lots in question.
Mr. Frederick T. Frelinghuysen and .31r. Jo8epI D. Bedle for
the appellant.
The bonds are valid; and if they are not, Crampton should
not have been enjoined from prosecuting an action for the
recovery of the purchase-money for the lots.
He was not a party to the proceedings on certiorari,and is
therefore not bound by the judgment rendered in them. The
Supreme Court of New Jersey expressly held that its decision
was "not upon the validity of his claim." He may, therefore,
insist upon it here, notwithstanding that court was of opinion
that the resolution was in violation of statutes that are merely
directory, but which the board could not plead in avoidance of
his rights under an executed contract. An order setting aside
the resolution after it had been carried into effect cannot cancel
the obligation of the bonds, or impair the title which passed by
his conveyance.
It must be conceded that by the original act creating the
county of Hudson, its board of freeholders had all the rights,
power, and authority vested in any other board, and that no
limitation other than the public needs, of which it was the
exclusive judge, was imposed upon its power to purchase land
whereon to erect buildings for the use of the courts and public
officers, or for any other authorized purpose.
The only objection made below to the bonds is grounded
upon the assumption that the statutes of 1874 and 1876 prohibit a contract by which the board gains a credit beyond the
fiscal year in which such a purchase is made.
The act of 1874 only requires that the expenditures of the
fiscal year shall not exceed the amouit raised by taxation for

CRAMPTON V. ZABRISKIE.

[Sup. ot.

that year. It will not be questioned' that under its general
powers the board had the right to purchase land and erect a
court-house thereon. The current of authority 'is that a municipal corporation may borrow money for any appropriate
purpose within the scope of its charter. Bank v. Chillicothe,
7 Ohio, Part II. 31; State v. Madison, 7 Wis. 688; Clarc
v. J"anesville, 10 id. 136; Mills v. Gleason, 11 id. 470. The
'properly constituted authorities of a municipality may bind
the corporation whenever they have power to act in the premises. Cincinnati City' v. Morgan, 8 Wall. 275. Authority to
'build a court-house carries with it' the right to borrow money
to build it, Lynde v. The County (16 id. 6) ; and bonds or notes
'maybe given for any authorized work or purchase. The layor
v. Bay, 19 id. 468. But although there may be some conflict
in the decisions as to the power of a municipality to borrow
money, there is none as to its power to contract for work or
property on credit. There is a wide and manifest difference
between incurring a debt in the prosecution of a purpose expressly sanctioned by statute and borrowing money with a view
to such prosecution.
The learned district ju~dge who decided this case below says,
"The contract for the purchase was consummated on the 22d
of December, 1876, and if the board at any regular meeting, or
special meeting, called for the purpose prior to the 15th of July
following, had included the consideration money to be paid in
the amount to be raised by tax for the fiscal year, it is difficult
to perceive any illeglity in the'transaction."
The board had, in his opinion, the right to give the bonds
in question. The illegality then consists in the alleged failure
to provide in 'the proper fiscal year the money to pay them.
Crampton is in no wise responsible for that failure, and neither
the board nor the tax-payers can set up its wrong to bar his
claim for the stipulated price of the property. His reasoning
substantially amounts to this,- the bonds were valid when
given; but inasmuch as 'the board neglected to levy a tax to
pay them at maturity, the defence of ultra vires must be sustained.
It 'does not, however, appear that when the bonds were due
there was not money 6nough in the treasury to pay them.

Oct. 1879.]

CAMPTON V. ZABRISKIE.

There is no evidence whatever in the record of the amount
raised or then unexpended, and the burden of proof of any fact
in discharge of the liability rests upon the board and not upon
Crampton.
The act of 1876 must receive a strict construction. The
object was not to impair obligations incurred, but to reach
offending individual members of the board. Its terms do not
justify the assumption that it was the legislative intent to
render absolutely void a contract in contravention of them.
It contemplates certain things accomplished, - the disbursement as a fact, and the obligation incurred as an existing liability. Its policy was not to punish a third party who contracts
with the board, and delivers to it his property.
But if the bonds are void, they are mere evidences of debt,
and can be severed from the consideration of the debt. The
right of recovery on the consideration still subsists and may be
enforced. Hitchcock v. Galveston, 96 U. S. 341.
Ir. J. i. Lippincott and Mr. Peter Bentley for the appellees.
delivered the opinion of the court.
On the 14th of December, 1876, the Board of Chosen Freeholders of the County of Hudson, in New Jersey, passed a resolution to purchase of the defendant, Crampton, certain real
property in Jersey City, uponwhich to erect a court-house and
other buildings for the county, at the price of $2,000 for every
2,500 square feet, the price at which he had previously offered
to sell the same, and to issue to him in payment thereof bonds
of the county, payable out of the amount appropriated and
limited for the expenses of the next fiscal year, the bonds to
run for one year and to draw interest at the rate of seven per
cent per annum. The bonds were to be signed by the director
at large and the collector of the county, and to be issued under
its seal. On the 18th of December, Crampton executed and
delivered to the board a conveyance of the property, which was
accepted and recorded in the office of the register of deeds;
and thereupon three bonds were executed and delivered to him,
two of which were for the sum of $75,000, and one was for
$75,720. No provision was made by the board for the payment
AIR. JUSTICE FIELD

608

b

CRA.IPTOTT V. ZABRISKIE.

[Sup. C.

of the bonds beyond the general declaration that they should be
paid out of the amount appropriated and limited for the next
fiscal year. By the law then in force the fiscal year commenced
on the first day of December of each year, and the .expendibures of the board were restricted to the amount raised by tax
for that year, unless by the spread of an epidemic or a contagious disease a greater expenditure should be required; and
the amount to be raised was to be determined at a meeting
of the board to be held prior to July 15 of each year. Some of
the resident tax-payers were dissatisfied with this issue of bonds
without making definite provision for their payment by taxation, and accordingly obtained from the Supreme Court of the
State a writ of certiorarito review the proceedings of the board.
The court adjudged the proceedings invalid, and set the same
aside.
It does not appear that any attention was paid either by the
board or Crampton to this judgment. The board did not reconvey or offer to reconvey the land to Crampton; nor did
the latter return or offer to return to the board the bonds received by him. But, on the contrary, Crampton commenced an
action in the Circuit Court of the United States to'enforce their
payment. The present suit, therefore, is brought by other taxpayers of the county to compel the board to reconvey the
land and Crampton to return the bonds, and to enjoin the prosecution of the action to enforce their payment.
The facts here stated are not contradicted; they are substantially admitted; and upon them the court below very properly
rendered a decree for the complainants. Indeed, upon the
simple statement of the case, it would seem that there ought to
be no question as to the invalidity of the proceedings of the
board. The object of the statute of New Jersey defining and
limiting its powers would be defeated if a debt could be contracted without present provision for its payment in advance of
a tax levy, upon a simple declaration that out of the amount to
be raised in a future fiscal year it should be paid. The law, in
terms, limits the expenditures of the board, with a single ex
,ception, to the amount to be raised by taxation actually levied,
not by promised taxation in the future. And, as if this limitation was not sufficient, it makes it a misdemeanor in any mere-

Oct. 1879.]

CRAMPTON V. ZABRISKIE.

her of the board to incur obligations in excess of the amount
thus provided. It would be difficult to express in a more emphatic way the will of the legislature that the board should not
incur for the county any obligations beyond its income previously provided by taxation; in other words, that the expenses
of the county should be based upon and never exceed moneys
in its treasury, or taxes already levied and payable there.
Of the right of resident tax-payers to invoke the interposition
of a court of equity to prevent an illegal disposition of the
moneys of the county or the illegal creation of a debt which
they in common with other property-holders of the county may
otherwise be compelled to pay, there is at this day no serious
question. The right has been recognized by the State courts in
numerous cases; and from the nature of the powers exercised
by municipal corporations, the great danger of their abuse and
the necessity of prompt action to prevent irremediable injuries,
it would seem eminently proper for courts of equity to interfere
upon the application of the tax-payers of a county to prevent
the consummation of a wrong, when the officers of those corporations assume, in excess of their powers, to create burdens
upon property-holders. Certainly, in the absence of legislation
restricting the right to interfere in such cases to public officers
of the State or county, there would seem to be no substantial
reason why a bill by or on behalf of individual tax-payers
should not be entertained to prevent the misuse of corporate
powers. The courts may be safely trusted to prevent the abuse
of their process in such cases. Those who desire to consult the
leading authorities on this subject will find them stated or
referred to in Mr. Dillon's excellent treatise on the Law of
Municipal Corporations.
.Decree affirmed.

VOL. XT.

