Oct. 1879.]

9ROBERTS
v. BOLLES.

of occupancy for more than two years. The construction now
insisted upon by the complainants is an afterthought, a creature
of recent birth.
In view of the considerations thus presented, we are of opinion that the Supreme Court of the District erred in construing
the charter of the company, and sustaining the complainants'
bill. Of the cross-bill it is sufficient to say that it must fall
-with the bill of the complainants. This is conceded by the
appellants.
The decree of the Supreme Court of the District will be
reversed with costs, and the record remitted, with instructions
to dismiss both the bill and the cross-bill; and it is
So ordered.
AM. JUSTICE

BRADL-EY, with whom concurred MR. JUSTICE

dissenting.
I dissent from the judgment of the court in this case. I
think that it was the intent of the statute to give to the purchasers of stalls the benefit of the "good-will" acquired during the term, so long as they chose to keep them and pay the
rents originally fixed, or which might from time to time be
imposed by the common council.
HARLAN,

ROBERTS V. BOLLES.
1. By the statutes of Illinois, municipal bonds payable to bearer are transferable
by delivery, and the holder thereof can sue thereon in his own name.
2. The statute of that State of Mlarch 6, 1867, provides that the supervisor of a
town, if a majority of the legal voters thereof voting at an election to be
held for the purpose so authorized, shall subscribe for stock of a railroad
company in the name of the town, and issue its bonds in payment therefor,
and the fifth section declares that "no mistake in the giving of notice, or in
the canvass or return of votes, or in the issuing of the bonds, shall in any
way invalidate the bonds so issued, provided that there is a majority of the
votes at such election in favor of such subscription." An application in
due form for an election was signed by only twelve legal voters and taxpayers instead of twenty, and ten days' notice of the election instead of
twenty given. The election was held at the specified time, and a majority

ROBERTS V. BOLLES.

[Sup. Ot.

of the electors of the town voting thereat favored the subscription. It was
accordingly made. An act of the legislature legalized the subscription,
and the bonds were issued. Held, that, independently of that act, the
bonds are not, in the hands of a bona fide purchaser, rendered invalid by
reason of the departure from the statutory provisions touching the application for, and the notice of, the election.
3. Williams v. Town of Roberts (88 Ill. 1), decided three years after the judgment
now under review was rendered, is not accepted by this court as conclusive
against the validity of the bonds; for the Supreme Court of Illinois, while
holding the election to be void, does not refer to said sect. 5, nor to the precise question upon which their validity is sustained here.
4. That decision would be an authority in point if it declared that said sect. 5 is
in conflict with the Constitution of the State, or that the defects in the
application and notice are not mere mistakes, within the meaning of the
said statute of larch 6, 1867. Sed quacere, would it be conclusive here.
5. Brooklyn v. Insurance Company (99 U. S. 362) cited and approved.

to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
This was an action brought by Bolles & Co. against the
town of Roberts on certain bonds and coupons issued in its
name by the supervisor of the town, in payment of its subscription to the capital stock of the Hamilton, Lacon, and Eastern
Railroad Company. A judgment was rendered against the
town, and the case was removed here on error. The facts are
fully stated in the opinion of the court.
ERROR

Mr. A. J Bell for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. George 0. _Tde, contra.
delivered the opinion of the court.
This case involves the validity 6f certain township bonds,
bearing date April 7, 1871, issued in the name of the town of
Roberts, in the county of Marshall, Ill., and made payable to
the Hamilton, Lacon, and Eastern Railroad Company, or hearer,
on the 7th of April, 1874, with interest from date, payable
annually, on the presentation and surrender of the interest
coupons as they matured.
Each bond, signed by the supervisor of the town, attested
by its clerk, and certified upon its face to have been duly
recorded in the township registry of bonds, as directed by law,
recites that it "is one of a series, amounting in the aggregate
to $30,000, and consisting of thirty bonds, numbered from 1 to
MR. JUSTICE HARL~u

Oct. 1879.]

ROBERTS V. BOLLES.

30, inclusive, each of which is for $1,000, and all of which are
of even date herewith, and are issued in accordance with the
laws of the State of Illinois, in payment of a subscription made
by said town of Roberts for three hundred shares of the capital
stock of the Hamilton, Lacon, and Eastern Railroad Company,
which said subscription was made by said town by virtue of
a vote of a majority of the voters of said town in favor thereof,
at a special election had for such purpose in said town on
the twenty-fifth day of March, 1869, in pursuance of the provisions of the laws of the State of Illinois, and of the several
acts of the General Assembly of the State of Illinois incorporating said company."
It is found as a fact in the case that, in January, 1872, defendants in error purchased, in good faith, the bonds in the
market, without notice of any defence thereto, and paying therefor at the rate of ninty-three and a half cents on the dollar.
The first plea alleges that the payee named in the bonds,
the railroad company, had never indorsed them, or any of them,
in writing, and that by the law of Illinois in force when they
were made, as well as when they were sold by the company,
without such indorsement, they were not transferable so as to
vest the title thereto, and the right to sue thereon in the name
of the holder.
A demurrer to that plea was sustained, and, as we think,
properly so. It is true that the Supreme Court of Illinois, in
Hilborne v. Aetus (4 Ill. 344), held that under a statute of that
State, then in force, notes payable to a person or bearer could
not be transferred, or assigned by delivery only, so as to authorize the holder by delivery to sue in his own name. "There
is one way," the court said, "by which he can do so, and that
is by virtue of the assignment indorsed on the note itself. The
indorsement gives the right to sue in the name of the assignee."
That construction of the Illinois statute was followed in Boosa
v. Crist, 17 id. 450. But New Hope -DelawareBridge Co. v.
.Perry (11 id. 467) decides that bank-notes payable to bearer,
or to a particular person or bearer, are not embraced by the
provisions of the statute, or by the reasons which caused its
passage; and that the holder, by delivery merely, can maintain
an action thereon, unless it.appears that he obtained them

ROBERTS

v.

BOLLES.

[Sup. Ct.

mala fide. The statute, it was said, applies "only to instruments that were not negotiable by the common law or the
custom of merchants."
In Johnson v. County of Stark (24 id. 75), the court put
municipal bonds and coupons on the footing, in this respect, of
bank-bills, and thus brought that class of commercial securities
within the rule announced in _New Hope Delaware Bridge Co.
v. Perry. Its language was: "It seems to be the well-settled
doctrine that State, county, city, and other bonds and public
securities of this character are negotiable by delivery only,
without indorsement, in the same manner as bank-bills, especially when they are payable to bearer." Subsequently, in
Supervisors of Mercer County v. Hubbard (45 id. 139), which
was an action on coupons attached to bonds issued by a county
in payment of a railroad subscription, the court said: "More
recent decisions place these coupons in the condition of bankbills payable to bearer, and no one will deny such bills can be
given in evidence in a suit by the bearer against the bank
issuing them, under the common counts. We see no difference
between coupons payable to bearer for a sum certain, and a
bank-bill. They alike pass by delivery only." Finally, in Town
of Eagle v. KYohn (84 id. 292), it was said: "It is the well-settled doctrine that bonds of this character are to be treated as
commercial paper; and this court has held coupons attached to
them to be negotiable by delivery only, without indorsement."
It is thus seen that by repeated adjudications of that court,
prior to the statute of 1874, municipal bonds payable to bearer
were excepted from the rule announced in Hilborne v. Actus
and Boosa v. Crist.
But all doubt upon the subject is removed by the eighth
section of the act approved March 18, 1874, revising the laws
of Illinois in relation to promissory notes, bonds, due-bills, and
other instruments of writing, which was in force when this
action was commenced. It provides "that any note, bond,
bill, or other instrument in writing, made payable to bearer,
may be transferred by delivery thereof, and an action may be
maintained thereon in the name of the holder thereof." Rev.
Stat. Ill. 719, sect. 8.
This act, though not in force when defendants in error

Oct. 1879.]

ROBERTS V. BOLLES.

acquired. the bonds in suit, applies, we think, to actions commenced after it took effect.
We are satisfied that this plea, tested alone by the law of
Illinois, and without reference to the decisions of this court
upon the subject of commercial securities, is insufficient.
The third plea, to which a demurrer was also sustained, proceeds upon the ground that the election of March 25, 1869,
was called without competent authority, and conferred no
power upon the supervisor and town clerk, or either of them,
to subscribe to the stock or issue the bonds in question, and
that the latter were, consequently, void.
Of the facts set out in the plea it is alleged that the defendants in error had " constructive notice," prior to their purchase
of the bonds; to wit, on the day they bear date.
The questions of law presented under this plea arise out
of certain facts which it is necessary to state somewhat in
detail.
By an act of the legislature of Illinois, approved March 5, 1869,
it is provided that any incorporated town or township of any
county through or near which the Hamilton, Lacon, and Eastern Railroad Company may be located, or is about to be located,
might, by a vote of the people thereof, subscribe to the corporate stock of the company any sum not to exceed $100,000
each, - such vote to be ascertained by an election held in the
manner prescribed by and in conformity with the provisions of
an act, approved March 6, 1867, authorizing certain designated
counties, and townships, cities, incorporated towns, and corporations in said counties, to subscribe to the capital stock of any
railroad then or which might thereafter be incorporated in the
State of Illinois. The act of March 5, 1869, made it the duty
of the clerk of each township, subscribing stock under its authority, to keep, in duplicate, a complete register of the bonds
issued, showing their numbers, amount, date, and rate of interest, and deliver one copy of the same to the county clerk of his
county.
Under the act of March 6, 1867, to which reference is made
by the act of March 5, 1869, elections, to take the sense of the
people upon subscriptions to the capital stock of a railroad
company, could be called and held, upon the application of

ROBERTS V. BoLLES.

[Sup. Ob.

twenty legal voters and tax-payers of the county, township,
city, or incorporated town in whose behalf it wag proposed to
make the subscription, such application specifying the amount
and the conditions of the proposed subscription. The notice
of such election was required to be posted, in the case of a
township, by the clerk thereof, in three of the most public
places of such township. If a majority of such voters voting
at said township election favored the subscription, then it was
made the duty of the supervisors thereof to make the subscription; and when the subscription was accepted or received, to
cause the bonds to be issued in compliance with the popular
vote. Pri. Laws Ill. 1867, vol. i. p. 866.
The fifth section of the act of March 6, 1867, declares that
"no mistake in the giving of the notice, or in the canvass or
return of votes, or in the issuing of the bonds, shall in any way
invalidate the said bonds so issued: Provided,that there is a
majority of the voters at such election in favor of such subscription."
A few weeks after the election of March 25, 1869, to wit,
on 17th April, 1869, the legislature of Illinois passed an act
which, in its second section, declares that subscriptions of
stock made by certain townships, including that made by the
town of Roberts of $30,000 to the capital stock of the Hamilton,
Lacon, and Eastern Railroad Company (quoting from the act),
"be each legalized, and are hereby made valid and binding,
according to the terms thereof; and the several supervisors of
said townships shall issue, in due form, the bonds of their
respective townships for the amount of stock subscribed for,
according to the terms and conditions of said subscription, and
shall deliver said bonds to said railroad company." Pri. Laws
Ill. 1869, vol. iii. p. 802.
With these facts before us, we come to the examination of
several propositions which have been pressed with much force
upon our attention.
It is contended that the election mentioned in the bonds
declared on was a nullity, because called upon an application
signed by only twelve, instead of twenty, legal voters and taxpayers, and because only ten days' notice thereof was given,
when the law required twenty; that the law is imperative in

Oct. 1879.]

ROBERTS

v.

B6LLES.

these respects, and that the failure to comply with its requirements rendered the bonds void, even in the bands of innocent
holders for value; that such was the settled law of Illinois, as
declared by the Supreme Court of that State prior both to the
election of March 25, 1869, and to the issuing of the bonds;
and, finally, that such prior judicial declarations are to be regarded as part of the local statutes, binding upon this court,
according to its own decisions.
Undoubtedly there are several decisions by the Supreme Court
of Illinois of the character indicated by counsel; but unless we
are greatly in fault in our examination, no one of them relates
to a municipal subscription, or to an issue of bonds, under a
statute containing a provision similar to sect. 5 of the act
of March 6, 1867, under which the election in question was
held. That act rests the validity of bonds issued under its
authority upon the essential fact that the majority of voters
at the election voted, as in this case, in favor of the subscription. In that event, it expressly declares that the bonds shall
not in any way become invalidated by reason of mistake in
the giving of tie notice, or in the canvass or return of votes,
or the issuing of th~e bonds. These words are without effect
if the municipality issuing the bonds can avoid their payment
because its agents or constituted authorities committed mistakes
such as are specified in the statute. If the town clerk gave a
notice of ten instead of twenty days, based upon an application
of twelve instead of twenty legal voters and tax-payers, was
not this a mistake "in the giving of the notice" and "in the
issuing of the bonds "? The purchaser of the bonds, if chargeable with notice of these facts, was, in terms, assured by the
statute that no such mistakes as those facts indicated would
invalidate the bonds, if the majority of the voters at the election
had approved the subscription. He had the right to rely upon
these legislative assurances, unless the fifth section of the act
of March 6, 1867, was in violation of the Constitution of the
State. We do not, however, feel justified in declaring that
provision of the act to be in conflict with that instrument. We
are referred to no decision of the State court which so decides.
On the contrary, that court, in Burr v. City1 of Carbondale
(76 Ill. 455), which was a case of municipal bonds, said:

ROBE RTS

v. BOLLES.

[Sup. Or.

"These bonds having been issued in the exercise of a power
constitutionally conferred, must be binding on the municipality,
although some irregularities in the form of notice of the election,
want of the precise words on the ballots, and others of like
character, may have occurred." p. 469.
It is true that, according to the settled construction of the
Constitution of Illinois in force in 1869, the legislature could
not require or compel the corporate authorities of a county,
city, or town, against or without its consent, to subscribe to
the stock of a railroad company. But it could authorize such
corporate authorities to make subscriptions with or without
referring the question to the people immediately interested.
In President and Trustees of the Town of Keithsburg v.
Frick (34 Ill. 405), the Supreme Court of Illinois, speaking by
the late Chief Justice Breese, held that it was by no means a
necessary element in municipal subscriptions to the stock of
railroad corporations that there should be a vote of the inhabitants of the town or city authorizing them; "that it was competent for the legislature to bestow the power directly on the
corporation without any other intermediary." The authority
of that case, upon some points therein determined, has perhaps been shaken by later decisions in the same court. But
in 111arshallv. Silliman (61 id. 218), the court, while holding
that the legislature could not clothe the supervisor and town
clerk, without the consent of the people, with discretionary
power of taxation or of creating a debt, - they not being the
corporate authorities of the township in the sense of the Constitution, - yet approved that case so far as it ruled that those
who were the corporate authorities of a town, within the meaning of a State Constitution, might be empowered by the legislature to subscribe to the stock of a railroad corporation, and
issue bonds therefor, without taking a vote of the people. Q.
H. & P. B. B. Co. v. Morris, 84 id. 410.
Certainly the legislature could prescribe the mode of ascertaining the sense of the voters, who alone, it is claimed, were
the corporate authorities of the town, within the meaning of
the State Constitution. And as it might, in the act of March
6, 1867, have allowed the election to be called upon the application of a less number of voters and tax-payers than twenty,

Oct. 1879.]

O OBERTS v.

BOLLES.

and to be held after a notice of ten days, rather than twenty,
we do not see any ground to question its right, consistently
with the State Constitution, to declare, in advance, that if the
majority of voters at the election favor the subscription, the
bonds issued in payment thereof should not be invalidated by
mistakes of the kind specified in the fifth section of that act.
The mistakes here complained of were not such as necessarily
affected the substance or essence of the election, and consequently it cannot be said that the subscription was made or
the bonds issued without the consent of the corporate authorities or the legal voters of the township. The application for
the special election and the notice therefor were not so radically
defective as to justify us in saying, as matter of law, that a
debt for a railroad subscription was thrust upon the legal voters
and tax-payers of the township without their having a reasonable opportunity to vote upon the question of subscription. It
is not a case where bonds have been issued by the supervisor
and town clerk, without any previous election whatever to
authorize them so to do. It is a case of bonds issued in pursuance of a popular election, defectively called and held, and as
to which the legislature declared that the bonds should not be
invalidated by mistakes in giving the notice and in issuing
them, if there was "a majority of votes at such election in
favor of such subscription."
In this respect the case in hand is different from Township
of Elmwood v. Marcy, 92 U. S. 289. In the latter case, when
the notice for the election was given, there was no provision in
the charter of the town or in any statute of the State which
authorized the subscription. The power of the town to subscribe had previously been exhausted; and the notice was not
under or with special reference to the subsequent act allowing
an additional subscription. Nothing here determined conflicts
with that decision.
Independently, therefore, of the curative act of April 17,
1869, we are of opinion that the bonds sued on are not invalid
by reason of the departure from the provisions of the act of
March 6, 1867, in the matter of the application for and notice
of the election of March 25, 1869.
But a farther contention of the plaintiff in error is that the

ROBERTS v. BOLLES.

[Sup. t

Supreme Court of Illinois, in Iilliams v. Town of Ioberts
(88 Ill. 1), decided in June, 1878, nearly four years after the
commencement of this action, and three years after the entry
of the judgment in this case, held not only that the curative
act of April 17, 1869, was in violation of the Constitution of
the State, but that the election of March 25, 1869, was a nullity,
conferring no power upon the supervisor of the town to make
the subscription and issue the bonds.
In reference to the alleged conflict of the last-named act with
the Constitution of Illinois, we give no opinion. The views we
have expressed as to the validity of the bonds, under the act
of March 6, 1867, particularly its fifth section, render it unnecessary to consider or determine the constitutional validity
of the curative act of 1869. It is, however, claimed that we
are obliged to accept the decision. in Williams v. Town of Roberts, as conclusive against the validity of these particular bonds.
We cannot give our assent to this proposition, for the reason,
if there were no other, that that decision does not touch the
precise point upon which we sustain their validity, despite the
defective application and notice for the election of March 25,
1869. No reference is made, in that case, to the fifth section
of the act of March 6, 1867, upon which we have commented.
The Supreme Court of Illinois, in the case alluded to, undoubtedly held that the defects in the application and notice rendered
that election a nullity, and that, because of such defects, the
subscription was made and the bonds issued without authority
of law. But we are not informed as to the effect which, in the
opinion of that court, is to be given to the fifth section of the
act of March 6, 1867. If the court had gone further, and decided that section to be unconstitutional ; or that the defective
application and notice for the election were not mere mistakes
within the meaning of that section; or that the bonds declared
on were null and void, notwithstanding the legislative declaration that they should not be invalidated because of any mistake in giving the notice, in issuing the bonds, or in the canvass
or return of votes, - then its decision would have been an authority in point, covering the precise question before us. If we
are mistaken in this, it does not follow that we should accept
that decision as conclusive of this case. That would depend

Oct. 1879.]

NATIONAL BANK V. COUNTY OF YANKTON.

129

upon our approval or disapproval of the decision upon its
merits. In Pease v. Peek (18 How. 599), we said that this
court would not feel bound, "in any case in which a point is
first raised in the courts of the United States, and has been
decided in a circuit court, to reverse that decision contrary to
our own convictions, in order to conform to a State decision
made in the mean time. Such decisions have not the character
of established precedent declarative of the settled law of the
State." Mlorgan v. Curtenius, 20 How.1.
For these reasons we are of opinion that the demurrer to the
third plea was properly sustained.
The facts set out in the fourth plea clearly do not constitute
a defence to the action. We could not hold otherwise without
overturning the settled doctrines of this court in reference to
municipal bonds issued in payment of subscriptions to the
capital stock of railroad corporations. Our remarks in Brookly/ v. Insurance Company (99 U. S. 862) are applicable to
this case, and support the action of the court in sustaining a
demurrer to the fourth plea.
Other considerations might be suggested in support of the
judgment, but what we have said is sufficient to dispose of the
case.
Judgment affirmed.

1NATiONAL BANKv. CoUN-Y OF YANK3TON.
1. The statute of Congress organizing a Territory within the jurisdiction of the
United States is the fundamental law of such Territory, and as such binding upon the territorial authorities.
2. Subject to the limitations expressly or by implication imposed by the Constitution, Congress has full and complete authority over a Territory, and may
directly legislate for the government thereof. It may declare a valid enactment of the territorial legislature void or a void enactment valid, although
it reserved in the organic act no such power.
3.Under the statutes of Congress (12 Stat. 239 and 15 id. 300) the legislative
assembly of Dakota meets biennially, and no one session thereof can exceed forty days. That assembly met Dec. 5,1870, and after continuing in
session every day, Sundays excepted, until Jan. 13, 1871, adjourned without
day. The acting governor convened it April 6,1871, when, after organizing, it passed, among other laws, one entitled "An Act to enable organized
VOL. Xi.

9

