Oct. 1879.]

RAILROAD Co. v. TENNESSEE.

do not use all of these elements, but that they dispense with
one of them at least which is material in the complainant's
meter. Our conclusion, therefore, is, that they do not infringe
the complainant's patent.
It may be observed, before concluding this opinion, that the
courts of this country cannot always indulge the same latitude
which is exercised by English judges in determining what parts
of a machine are or are not material. Our law requires the
patentee to specify particularly what he claims to be new, and
if he claims a combination of certain elements or parts, we
cannot declare that any one of these elements is immaterial.
The patentee makes them all material by the restricted form
of his claim. We can only decide whether any part omitted
by an alleged infringer is supplied by some other device or
instrumentality which is its equivalent. We think no such
equivalent is supplied in this case. The general construction
of the defendants' meter, and the arrangement of its parts, are
so different from that described in the complainant's patent,
and claimed therein, that the defendants are enabled to dispense with the entire part referred to.
Decree affrmed.

RAItROAD

CO1PANY

v. TENNESSEE.

The Constitution of Tennessee, in force in 1838, declares that "suits may be
brought against the State in such manner and in such courts as the legislature
may by law direct." The statute of 1855 providing that actions might be
instituted against the State under the same rules and regulations that govern
those between private citizens, but conferring no power on the courts to execute their judgments, was repealed in 1865. No other law was enacted prescribing the manner or the courts in which the State could be sued. In a suit
subsequently brought by the State in 1872 against the Bank of Tennessee and
certain of its creditors, A., who was admitted a defendant, filed a cross-bill,
setting up that while the first statute was in force the bank became indebted
to him, and, praying that under the indemnity clause of its charter a decree
be rendered against the State for the amount of the debt. The cross-bill was
dismissed solely upon the ground that the State could not be sued in her own
courts. HFd, that the repealing statute of 1865 did not impair the obligation
of a contract, within the meaning of the contract clause of the Constitution of
the United States.
22
VOL. x1.

RAILROAD

Co. V. TENNESSEE.

[Sup. Ct.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Tennessee.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Submitted on printed briefs by Mr. Benjamin J. Lea, Attorney-General of Tennessee, and Mr. 3. B. Heiskell, for the
State; and by Mr. aeorge ifoadly and Mr. -. L. Andrews,
contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
On the 19th of January, 1888, the State of Tennessee established a bank in its own name and for its own benefit, and
pledged its faith and credit to give indemnity for all losses
arising from any deficiency in the funds specifically appropriated as capital. The State was the only stockholder, and
entitled to all the profits of the business. The bank was by
its charter capable of suing and being sued. At that time the
Constitution of the State contained this provision: "Suits may
be brought against the State in such manner and in such courts
as the legislature may by law direct." Art. 1, sect. 17. No
law had then been passed giving effect to this express grant of
power, but in 1855 it was enacted that actions might be instituted against the State under the same rules and regulations
that govern actions between private citizens, process. being
served on the district attorney of the district in which the
suit was instituted. Code, sect. 2807. No power was given
the courts to enforce their judgments, and the money could
only be got through an appropriation by the legislature.
In 1865, this law was repealed, and after that there was no
law prescribing the manner or the courts in which suits could
be brought against the State. On the 16th of February, 1866,
an act was passed to wind up and settle the affairs of the bank,
under which an assignment of all the property was made to
Samuel Watson, trustee. Afterwards, on the 16th of May,
1866, the State and the trustee filed a bill in equity, in the
Chancery Court at Nashville, against the bank and its creditors,
for an account of debts and assets and a decree of distribution.
At the November Term, 1872, of the court, the Memphis and
Charlestown Railroad Company was admitted as a defendant
to this suit, and given leave to file a cross-bill. This cross-bill

Oct. 1879.]

RAILROAD

Co. v.

TENNESSEE.

was accordingly filed, and set forth an indebtedness from the
bank to the railroad company, which accrued while the law
allowing suits against the State was in existence, and sought to
enforce the liability of the State under the indemnity clause of
the charter. To this bill both the State and Watson, the trustee, demurred, and assigned for cause, among others, that the
State could not be sued. The demurrer was sustained by the
Chancery Court, and the cross-bill dismissed. An appeal was
then taken to the Supreme Court of the State, where the decree
below was affirmed, upon the express ground that the repeal of
the law authorizing suits against the State was valid, and did
not impair the obligation of the contract which the railroad
company had. All other questions were waived by the court,
and the decision placed entirely on the ground that as the
State could not be sued in its own courts, the bill must be
dismissed. To reverse that judgment this writ of error was
brought.
The question we have to decide is not whether the State is
liable for the debts of the bank to the railroad company, but
whether it can be sued in its own courts to enforce that liability. The principle is elementary that a State cannot be
sued in its own courts without its consent. This is a privilege
of sovereignty. It is conceded that when this suit was begun
the State had withdrawn its consent to be sued, and the only
question now to be determined is whether that withdrawal impaired the obligation of the contract which the railroad company seeks to enforce. If it did, it was inoperative, so far as
this suit is concerned, and the original consent remains in full
force, for all the purposes of the particular contract or liability
here involved.
The remedy, which is protected by the contract clause of the
Constitution, is something more than the privilege of having a
claim adjudicated. Mere judicial inquiry into the rights of
parties is not enough. There must be the power to enforce
the results of such an inquiry before there can be said to be a
remedy which the Constitution deems part of a contract. Inquiry is one thing; remedy another. Adjudication is of no
value as a remedy unless enforcement follows. It is of no
practical importance that a right has been established if the

RAILROAD

Co. v.

TENNESSEE.

[Sup. Ct.

right is no more available afterwards than before. The Constitution preserves only such remedies as are required to
enforce a contract.
Here the State has consented to be sued only for the purposes
of adjudication. The power of the courts ended when the
judgment was rendered. In effect, all that has been done is
to give persons holding claims against the State the privilege of
having them audited by the courts instead of some appropriate
accounting officer. When a judgment has been rendered, the
liability of the State has been judicially ascertained, but there
the power of the court ends. The State is at liberty to determine for itself whether to pay the judgment or not. The
obligations of the contract have been finally determined, but
the claimant has still only the faith and credit of the State to
rely on for their fulfilment. The courts are powerless. Every
thing after the judgment depends on the will of the State. It
is needless to say that there is no remedy to enforce a contract
if performance is left to the will of him on whom the obligation to perfoim rests. A remedy is only wanted after entreaty
is ended. Consequently, that is not a remedy in the legal
sense of the term, which can only be carried into effect by
entreaty.
It is clear, therefore, that the right to sue, which the State
of Tennessee once gave its creditors, was not, in legal effect, a
judicial remedy for the enforcement of its contracts, and that
the obligations of its contracts were not impaired, within the
meaning of the prohibitory clause of the Constitution, of the
United States, by taking away what was thus given. This renders it unnecessary to consider whether in this suit a cross-bill
could have been maintained by the railroad company if the
right to sue had been continued, and also whether a remedy
given after the charter of the bank was granted, but in force
when the debt of the bank was incurred, might be taken away
without impairing the obligation of the contract of the State to
indemnify the creditors against loss by reason of any deficiency
in the capital. Neither do we find it necessary to determine
what would be a complete judicial remedy against a State, nor
whether, if such a remedy had been given, the obligation of a
contract entered into by the State 'when it was in existence

Oct. 1879.]

LANGFORD V. UNITED STATES.

would be impaired by taking it away. What we do decide is
that no such remedy was given in this case.

Judgment affrmned.

M . JUSTICE SWAYNE and MR. JUSTICE STRONG dissented.

LANGFORD v. UNITED STATES.
1. As applicable to the government or any of its officers, the maxim that the
king can do no wrong has no place in our system of constitutional law.
2. Qucrre, where lands which are confessedly private property are by the express
authority of the government taken for public use, can the just compensation
therefor which is guaranteed by the Constitution be recovered under existing laws in the Court of Claims .
8. That court has jurisdiction only in cases ex contractu, and an implied contract
to pay does not arise where the officer of the government, asserting its
ownership, commits a tort by taking forcible possession of the lands of an
individual for public use.
4. The provision restricting that jurisdiction to contracts express or implied
refers to the well-understood distinction between matters ex eontractu and
those ex ddicto, and is founded on the principle, that while Congress is
willing to subject the government to suits on contracts, which can be valid
only when made by some one thereunto vested with authority, or when under
such authority something is by him done which raises an implied contract,
that body did not intend to make the government liable to suit for the
wrongful and unauthorized acts which are committed by its officers, under
a mistaken zeal for the public good.
5. If, under claim that they belong to the government, an officer seizes for the
use of an Indian agency buildings owned by a private citizen, no implied
obligation of the United States to pay for the use and occupation of them
is thereby raised.

APPEA, from the Court of Claims.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
M3r. ,Benjamin P. Butler and Mr. Thomas Wilson for the
appellant.
The Attorney- General for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit was brought by the plaintiff against the United
States to recover for the use and occupation of certain lands

