236,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

credit as it has in the state
court from whence it was taThe
orjwma. ken; if in such court it has the
effect of record evidence, it
must have the same effect in
every other court within the
United States. 2d. That in
every case arising vnder the
act, the only inquiry is,what is,
-the effect of the judgnvnt in
the state where it was rendered. 3d. That whatever might
be the effect of a plea of nil
debet to an action on a state
judgment, after verdict,, it
.could not be sustained on
demurrer. 4th. That on such
a plea the original record need
not he produced for inspection,
but that an exemplification
thereof is sufficient. 5th. That
the act applies to the courts
of the- district of Colombia,
and to every other court within the United States.
In the argument of Bordon
v Fitch, 15. Tohns. ,lep,121.
1818.

in the supreme court of NewYork, it seems to have been
supposed that 'this court had
decided in Mills v. Duryee,
that nul tiel record was the
only proper plea to an action
upon a state judgment. But
it is connived that as to the
pleadifig, it only decided that
nil debef %as not a proper plea;
and that the court would hold
that any plea (as well as MIT
fiel record) that would avoid
the juldgment, if technically
pleaded, would be good.
However this may be, it may
safely be affirmed, that tile
question is still open in this
court whether a special plea
of frauid might not be pleaded,
or a plea to the juri,diction of
the court in xdiich the judgment was obtained; for these
might, in' sone cases, be
pleaded in the state court to
avoid the judgment.

(PRIZE.)

THE Fo.TUVA.-Krause et al. Claimanft,
.A question of proprietary interest and concealment of paper.g. Farther
proofordered, open to both parties. On the production offarther
proof by the claimant, condemnation pronounced.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

237

1818.
Where a neutral ship owner lends his name to cover a fraud with recondemto
ship
the
subject
will
gard to the cargo, this circumstance
The
nation.
It is a relaxation of the rules of the prize court, to allow time for far- -Fortuna.
ther procf in a case where 'there has been concealment of material
,papers.

THIs is the same cause which is reported ante, vol,
2. p. 161. and which was ordered to farther proof' at
the last term. It was submitted without argument,
upon the farther proof, at the present term .
Mr. Justice JoHNsoN delivered the opinion of the Feb. 26th.
court. Both vessel and cargo, in this case, are claimed in behalf of M. & J. Krause, Russian- merchants,
resident at Riga. The documents and evidence exhihted Martin Krause as the proprietor of the ship,
but the captain swears that he considered her as the
property of the house of M. & J.'Krause, from their
having exercised the ordinary acts of ownership over
"her ; and in this belief he is supported by the fact that
his contract is made with John Krause, by whom he appears to have been put in command of the ship.a Mara TraaislalionafExhibit,-87.
A. "On the following conditions have I given to Captain
Henry Behrens, the command
of the ship Fortuna, under
Russian colouis, lying at present in Riga.
1. Captain Behrens shall'
have -25Alberts do;lars monthly wages.
'. The whole cabin freight
has been allowed him.

3. He is to receive 5 per
cent. primage.
4. Travelling expenses for
the benefit of the vessel, as,
likewise, victualling expenses
for the use of the ship in port,
consistent with moderation,
havebeen allowed to the captain.
Captain Behrene, on is
partpromises to watch the interest of his owner in every re-

238

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

tin Krause, who appears in the grand bil o1 sale, is the
same Martin Krause who is a member of the firm of
Fortuna. M. -& J. Krause.
Analo~y be-. In all its prominent features, this case bears a strik.weenthZscaselng resemblance to the case of the St. Nicholas. A
and that of the
St Nicholas, vessel, documented as Russian, is placed under the
ue, voL 1. P.absolute controul of a British house, is dispatched un-417.
der the orders of that house to the Havanna, where
she is loaded under the directions of an individual of
the name of Muhlenbruck, who assumes the cbaracter
'of agent of the Russian owners ; she is then ostensibly cleared out for Riga, but -with express orders to
call at a British port, and terminate her voyage under
the orders of the same house, under the auspices of
which the adventure had originated and been so far
1818.
The

conducted.
Under these circumstances, it was certainly incumbent upon the claimant to show the previous correspondence of the British -with the Russian house, and
-thd immediate dependence of the agent at the Havan'na, upon the Russian house for authority, instructions,
and resources. When we come to compare the correspondence of Muhlenbruck -with that of Smith, the
agent in the St. Nicholas, we find here, also, a striking
similitude. In that case, the supposed correspondence
with the Russian principal is inclosed under cover
Riga, the 12th of August,
spect, and do the best he can
1813.
vessel.
the
of
benefit
the
for
Per Proc. John Krause,
-For the fulfilment of the.
Schulz."
(Signed)
myself
bind
present contract'I
by my signature.

239

OF THE UNITED STATES.

to the British house, with a request that they would
1818.
forward it. In this case the letters covering the inThe
voice and bill of lading, and directed to M. & J. -Fortuf.a
Krause, is confided to the captain, but with express instructions to forward it to the British house, and await
itheir orders.
The material facts on which the court relies, in making up its judgment on the claim of the cargo, are the
following:

In the first place, there ig a general shade of suspi- sifromth
'
cion cast oier the whole case, by the fact that all the concealonntof
material papers relating to the transaction were mys-papers.
teriously concealed in a billet of wood. Had there
been nothing fraudulent intended, these papers ought
to have been delivered along with the documentary
evidence. But they were not discovered until betrayed by one of the crew. It is upon the investigation
of these papers, principally, that the circumstances
occur which discover the true character of this voyage.
Want
ofevi

Secondly. There is no evidence that this adven- dence of the
ture was ever undertaken under instruction's froproprietaryin.
M. & J. Krause.

But there is evidence

I

that every

terest of the
claimant, and

of
thing is set in motion at the touch of Bennet & Co. existence
cmy's: inteevidence
of
of London. And although they affect to act in the rest.
capacity of agents of the Russian house, even the
rules of the common law would constitute them principals, in a case in which they cannot exhibit the
authority under which they assume the character of
agents.
Again; there is no evidence that" any
funds were furnished by the Rus~ian house for the
purchase of this cargo. But there is evidence, ana

CASES IN THE ,RPREME COURT
?818.

we think conclusive evidence, to show that it was
purchased on funds of the British house, vemited
The
Fortuna. through the medium of the cargo of the Robeit
Bruce, a ship loaded by Bennet & Co., and despatchin ine
ed about'the same time for the Havanna.
the
1S13,a
letter of instructions of the 18th of March,
a "London, 18th Nov. 1813.
Capt. Henry, Behrens,
As we have settled your
ship's accounts by paying you
a balance of 2061. I6s. lid.
up to November 13th, we now
agree that the arrangement
made with Messrs. M. -J.
Krause, when you wexe last at
Riga, shall contisue in force,
for the pending voyage, as far
as rerates to your pay and primage, and we agree to pay
youta gratuity of one hundred
pounds (1001.) sterling at the
exchange current, whenever
your voyage shall end, and
likewise to allow you your cabin freiglit at the rate which
the ship receives for her cargo. We have ordered Mr. J.
F. Muhlenbruck to supply you
with the cash necessary for
your expenses in the Havanna
when arrived out, which we
beg may be as little as possible. And in case ofyour Wanting any aid in Portsmouth, apply to *Mr. Andrew Lindergreen, or in Plymoutb, to

Messrs. Fuge & Son, or in
Falmouth to Messrs. Fox 4,
Son, who will supply you on
showing this letter. We desire tuat you wil, with .our
ship Fortuna, as speedily as
possible, join the West India
convoy now laying at Portsmouth taking sailing instructions, and proceed %%ith the
same convoy to the Ilav!'nna,
where you will apply to Mr.
J. F. Muhlenbruck, at M1essrs.
Ychazo & Carricabura, merchants there. You will receive at the Havanna Mr. J.
F. Muhlenbruck's instructions
which you will fidlow implicit
Mr. J. F. Muhleribruck
ly.
goes out to the Havanna on
board the Robert Bruce, or
some other vessel in the convoy, if the Robert Bruce is tbo
late. Should any accident liefal him in the vessel on board
)f which he goes, so that it is
ascertained that Mr. J. F.
Muhlenbruck cannot arrive at
the Havanna, or if he should
not be arrived there sixty

OF THE UMNTRD STATES.

24V

captain is told to proceed to the Havanna and await
181-8
the arrival of Muhlenbruck, in the Robert Bruce, for
-he
The
order; and in case of any accidents befalling that.1 ForLune.
'vesseL:.to apply to the Spanish house of Ychazo &
Carricabura,. at. the Havanna, for farther instructions.
And in- a letter to the house of Lorent &"Steinwitz
of Charleston, Bennet & Co. inform them, that the
Fortuna is despatched to the Havanna to the address
of Ychazo and Carricabura to obtain a freight for
the Baltic, and request Lorent & Steinwitz to
advise that house, if they could obtain a. freight for
her to any port in Europe. This correspondence is
explained thus: the cargo of the Robert Bruce would
probably be sufficient to load this ship with colonial,
produce; if she arrives in safety, the original adven'ture can then proceed, but should she b6 captured or
lost, some return freight must then be fcound for the
Fortuna. And accordingly we find in the letter to
Bennet & 0* of the 24th March,a Mphlenbruck solidays, (60) after you hive arrived there, you will consult
with Messrs.Ychazo & Carricabura what is best to be done.
Should the convoy be gone on
your arrival at Portsmouth you
are at liberty to follow it without convoy. Wishing you a
good voyage, we remain, &c.
(Signed,) BENNET & Co.
On your arrival at Leith apply to Ogilvie & Patterson.

ol. II.

alBavanna,24th
1March,1815.

Messrs. Eennet& Co.London
C entlemen,

I havre the honour to refer
you to my last letters of 21st
of February, and the I st of
M1arch, of which I have sent
you by different apportunities
triplicates. 'I he first letter
principally contained to request the favour of your opening me a credit in Jamaica or

32

CASES IN THES1JPREME COURT
lis.

The
Fortuna.

it-0
cits a credit on Jamaia or Cadiz as he expresses
alamount
the
of
"to be able.to settle the surplus
ready shipped which may be left out of the proceeds',
of the outward bound shipment of the Robert Bruce."
by
Now the only shipment he had then made was
that
of
the Fortuna ; and this letter gives advice
Cadiz to be able to settle the
surplus of the amount already
shipped, which maybe left out
of the 'proceeds of the outbound shipment of the Robert
riruce. I hope that the above
letter has reached you in time
to grant me as soon as possible
the favour, and beg to be convinced that only the greatest
necessity engages me to request it; not being able to
draw on either America or
England. I have now the
greatest pleasure to inform
you of the safe arrival of the
Robert Bruce, James Chessel,
master, on the 19t, under
protection of his majesty's
ship North Star, Captain Thomas Coe, from Jamaica. From
Cork she sailed with convoy,
consisting of his mnjesty's ship
Leviathan 74, Ca'ptain Adam
Drummond. the Talbot 20,
Captain Spelman Swaine, and
the Scorpion of 18 guns.
Therefore, she has been the
whole voyage under convoy,

and the insurers have to pay
the full returns of 6 per cent.
The North Star, which sails to
morrow, takes all the ready
vessels for Europe out to Bermuda ; from thence another
convoy will be-granted to protect them to ]England, or at
least as far as the latitude of'
Halifax. The Russian ship
Fortuna, Captain Behrens, laden with 1520,boxes assorte&
sugars bound to Riga, and for
account and risk of Messrs.
MI. & J. Krause at that place
is ready to join this convoyI enclose you invoice and bill
of lading, which you will be
pleased to forward, with the'
first opportunity to the abovW
friends. The Captain Behrens
has got instructions from me
to touch, according to the prevailing winds, either in Leith
or in the channel. By the
present circumstances on the
continentof Europe, Messrs.
M. & J. krause may have
been iaduced to send this cr-

243,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

*ipment, as also of the arrival of the Robert Bruce,
1818.
and the progress he had made in disposing of her carThe
go. The passage quoted means, therefore, (although
somewhat obscurely expressed,) 'It is possible that the Fortune.
outward cargo of the Robert Bruce may not be sufficient
to pay for the shipment already made by the Fortuna,
go to a better market than it , same, and the arrival of this
probably meets at Riga. Should
they have given you any instructions concerning this vessel, the Captain Behrens has
orders to wait for your kind
information in regard of the
farther destination, which orders from you I beg to send
him as soon as you know at
what port of the above mentioned he has arrived in England. Please to inform also
Messrs. M. & J. Krause, that
I have advanced here the captain, 1332 dollars4 cents, for
the use of ship Fortana. Next
weelk the cargo of the Robert
Bruce will be all delivered,
and I endeavour to procure
the highest prices possible.
The Oznaburgs will sell as
well as the Estopillas, but I
am sorry you was not aule to
getmore of the latter, and of
a finer quality, being alvays
thp leading article of an assortment of linen. The pricus of sugar are nearly the

convoy has brought them up
1-8 to 1-4 dollar higher. Coffee is lower, and I expect to
buyand lay in good coffee, at
10 to 11 dollars.
Messrs,
Hubbeits, Taylor- &" Simp.
son inform me that I may not
expect a convoy leaving"'Ja
maica before the :0th of
April. This same convoy can
arrive here the 10th or 15th
of May, and &I possible exertion shall be made on my side
to get the Robert Bruce laden
before this time. I have till
now not received an answer of
Messrs. Hibberts, respecting
the bills on London. Your
kind letter' of the 18th of December I have duly received.
lam happy that the sugars apr
bought within your limits, and
wish to be as fortunate with
those wanted for the Robert
Bruce's cargo.
I have the nonour, &c.

(Signed,)
3. F. MUHLENBRUCK"

-

244
1818.
*-""

Thp
:F.rtuna.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT.
and you must, therefore, furnish -me with a credit to
make up the deficiency."

Ychazo and Carricabura no

cargo of sudoubt advanced for the purchase of the
gars upon the credit of the cargo of the Robert Bruce,
and according y we find that house charging a commission for advancing. On these facts we are satisfied
that the cargo was purchased with British funds.
Lastly ; there is no eVidence that Muhlenbruck was
there is abundant
Want of e-he ag3nt of M' & J,. Krause, and
confidential agent
and
vidence that evidence of his being the avowed
Muhlenbruck
wasthe agentof the British house.
of the claimants, and sx- greatest
f
isteiice

We

see' in the

midst.of the

anxiety to keep ui the 'character of agent to

being aware
this gentleman, without
he
proofs thathe the Russian house,
shows to wiom he
once
at
which
act
an
does
it,
w
wasthe agentf
o
enemy
of the
Bennett

.house.

holds himself accountable, In his letter to
inform
& Co. of tlie 34th of March, he requests them to
advances
certain
the Russian house, that he has made
&
on account of the ship. But why request Bennett
Co. to do this if he was himself in immediate connection aud correspondence with the Russian house ? The
-factis, his correspondence with the Russian hoirse was
C.
ictitious, and his object was to inform Bennett and'
tp
in reality, whilst he feigned to addreba himself
M. & J. Rrduse, and thus the letters to the latter house,
covering the invoice and bill of lading,-although of the
same dqte with that to Bennett & Co. omits this piece
would
-of information, which, in a real correspondence,
contains
be groundwork of a credit to himself, and
enough
just
infornation,
rothing but the most general

5

OF THE UNITED STATES.
hi fact to glss over the transaction, -and give it the

IsiS.

aspect of reality.a

The

With regard to the vessel, it would be enough to Fortuna.
observe, that if a neutral ship-owne.r will
lend his
Neutral
ship
thecrgo
his owner,
lendin
do
name to cover a fraud with regard to the caro, thisef
circumstance alone will subject him to condemntioh ver a frauds
to the earg
But in this case there are, also, many circumstances to subjects t
ship to cog
maintain a supicion that the vessel was British prop; demnation.
erty, or at least not owned as claimed. Although this
court, from extreme anxiety to avoid siubjecting a neu- Relaxation
the rules ofli
tral to condemn-ation. has relaxed its rules in allowingourt in alle,
time for further proof in a case where there was con- ;ng frther
proof ia cad
cealmentof papers,.yet nothing has been brought for- ofconcealment
No pper
waid to support the neutral character of the ship.
a (Translation)
"Havanna, 24th Alarcl, 1814.
Messrs.;1.&J. Krause,Riga.
With the present I have the
honour to sendyou the invoice
and bill of lading of a cargo
of Sugars fok your estoemed
account inthe Fortuna, Cap:
tain H. Behrens. The ship
could not take .more than
1520 boxes white, and 600
brown, with Campeachy wood
which was necessary for stowing ; tog'ether $57, 517 4, for
which you will please give me
credit. The sugars are of the
,new crop bought at a moderate price, and of a very good
v, uality. And I flatter myself

you will be content with the
fulfilment of your kind evamission. As there is a convoy
leaving this place to-morrow
for Bermuda, I found it advisable for the Fortuna to join'
)he same, and wish her a very
jnic4 and safe passage. Of
the above documents I shall
send yo duplicatea when I
have the honourof writing you
again. The prices of Bussian
articles are at present-Raven's Duck, $16, Canvas$42.
Iron can only be sold with a
loss, and in small quantities,
as the price has fallen, &c.
(Signed,)
J. F. MUHLENBRUCK."

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
charter-party, no original correspondence, nothing, in
'fact, but those forinzl papers which never fail to acv.
company a fictitious, as well as a real, transaction.
On
Hoyt. the contrary, we find the captain, without any instructions from his supposed owners, submitting implicitly
to the orders of Bennett & Co. in every thing; and the
latter assuming even a control over the contract which
he exhibits with h;. supposed owner in Riga, and expressing a solicitude about his expenses, which could
only have been suggested by a consciousness that the
house of B. & Co. would have to pay those expenses.
Upon the whole,'we are satisfied that it is a case for
condemnation both of ship and cargo.
1818.

Decree affirmed.

(CONSTITUTIONAL AND COMMON LAW.)
GELSTON, et al. V. HOYT.
Under the judiciary act of 1781, ch. 20. s. 25. giving appellate jurisdictionto the suprome court of the United Stateq, from the final judgment or decree of the hghest court of ]aw or equity of a state, its
certain cases, the writ of error'may be directed to any court in which
the record and judgment on whicl it is to act may be found, and if
the record has been remitted by the highest court, &c. to another
court of the state, it may be brought by the weit of error from that
court.

The courts of the United States have an exclusive cognizance of the
questions of forfbituro upon all seizures made under the laws of the

