CASES IN THE 'SUPREME COURT

23Z

1818. profits of the said land in'its untenantable situation
tes from the said 27th day of March, 180,9, to the 27th day
Unt
Iv.
of March, 1816, with due care would be equal to
60 dollars."
2077
crate"1
150
The cause coming on to be heard in the court below
on this report, and that court being of opinion that under the decree of this court, the defendants w re only
to be-accountable for the rents and profits actually received, it was decreed that the ill, so far as it seeks
a recovery of r-ents and profits, should be dismissed,
from which decree an appeal was prayed to this court.
I am instructed by the court to say, that the decree
of the circuit is in strict co'nformity with the decree and
mandate of this court, and is therefore to be affirmed..
Decree affirmed.

(INSTANCE COURT.)

THE

UNITED STATES V.

150 CRATES OF

EARTHEN WARE.

Libel for a forfeiture of goods imported, and alleged to have been invpiced at a less sum than the actual cost at the place of exportation,
of the
with design to evade the duties, contrary to the C6th section
as
evidence
the
upon
decreed
Restitution
128.
ch.
law,
collection
shipped;
last
were
they
wvhere
to the cost of the goods at the place
tie place
the-form ofthe libel excluding all inquiry'as tu their cost at
of voycontinuity
the
to
as
and
shipped,
originally
were
they
where
age.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
from the district court of Louisiana.
1818.
This cause was argued by the A9ttorney-General for
Unit. States
the United States, and Mr. D. B. Ogden for the claimant.
150 Crates.
Feb. 191h
APPEAL

,.

Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion Feb. 24th.
of the court In this case the libel alleges that the
goods in question were exported from Bordeaux in
Fiance, and entered at the office of the collector of the
customs at New Orleans, and that they were invoiced at
a less sum than the actual cost thereof at the place of
exportation, with design to evade the duties thereon,
contrary to the provisions of the 66th section of the
collection law of 1799, ch. 128. It appears in the case,
that the goods were oliginally shipped from Liverpool,
and were landed at Bordeaux. All question as to continuity of voyage, and as to whether Liverpool or Bordeaux ought to be deemed the place of exportation, is
out of the case, because the information charges the
goods to have been exported from Bofdeaux. Upon
the evidence, it appears that the goods were invoiced
at sixty or seventy per cent. below the price in NewOrleans; which it is supposed was at least-as high as
the price -would have been in Liverpool: But it also appears that goods of this kind, at the time of their exportation from Bordeaux, were depreciated in value to
an equal degree: And it is proved that the samegoods
were offered to a 'witness at 50 per cent. below their
cost at Liverpool. The court is, therefore, not satisfied that the goods were .invoiced below their true vilue
at Bordeaux, with a design to evade the lawful duties;
VOL. III.
31

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
and the inquiry as to their value in the port from whict
1818.
%.0-~ they were originally shipped is excluded by the
fbampton
in which the libel is drawn. The decree of the
form
V.
X°Conrjl. district court, restoring the goods to the claimant, is,
therefore. affirmed.
Decree affirmed.

(CONSTlTUTOoN.Ar

LAW.)

HAMIPTON V. W'CONNEL.
A judgnent of a state court has the same credit, validity, and effect
in every other court within tto United Stateg, which it had in the
state whare it was rendered; and whatever pleas would be good to
a suit thereon in such state, and none others, can be pleaded in any

other court within the United States.

ERROR to the circuit court of the district of South
Carolina.
The defendant in error declared against the plaintiff
in error, in debt, on a judgment of the suprerme court
of the State of New York, to which the defendant below pleait il debet, and the plaintiff below demurred.
The circuit court rendered a judgment for the plaintiff
below, and thereupon the cause was brought by writ of
error to this court.
Peb. 141h.

Mr. Hopkinson, for the plaintiff in error, suggested,
that if, under any possible circumstances, the plea of
nil debet could be a good bar to the action, a general
He cited Mills v. Durdemurrer was insufficient.

