529

OF' THEUNITED STATES

1818.
Burton
v.

(LOCAL LAW.)

BURTONS Lessee v. WILLIAMiS et al..
The state of North Carolina, by her act of cession of the westem lands"
of 1789, ch. 3. recited in the act of congrem of 1790, h. 33. accepting that cession, anil by her'act of 1803. ch. 3. ceding to Tennesge. the right to issue grants, has parted *ith her right to issue
grants for landa within the state of Tennessee, upon entries made.
before the cession.
But it seems, that the holder.of such a grant may resort to the equity;
jurisdiction of the United States' courts for relief.

ERROR to the circuit court of East Tennessee.

This was an action of ejectment,, brought by theplaintiff in error, to recover the possession of. 5000
acres of land, lying in Maury county, in the state of
Tennessee, and granted to the lessor of the plaintiff
by the state of North Carolina, on the 14th of July,
1812. The grant was founded on an entry ma-2e 6n
the 27th of October, 1783, in the land office of North
Carolina, commonly called John Armstrong's office ;
on a warrant of survey issued from the same office
on the 10th of July, 1784; and on a survey made on
the 26th of February, 1812, under an act of the legislature of North Carolina, passed in. 1811. The.
lands lay in that part of Tennessee in which the dis,position of the vacant and unappropriated'lands is res'erved to the United States by the act of congress of.
the 18th of April, 1806, oh. 31. Thi' title was offei68
VOL. Ill.

William.

CASES IN THI SUPREME COURT

bac

ed in evidence by the plaintiff at the trial, and vu,
objected to by the defendant, who'claimed undei a
Burton
grant from Tennessee. The evidence was rejected
V.
Williams. by the court below ; on which the plaintiff excepted,
and the caue was brought by writ of error to this
I81a.

court.

Marht 26L

.%r. Harper, for the planiff, argued) that the state
of North Carolina, uj'der the conditions of her not of
1789, eh. 3. for ceding the Western lands to tlhe Untifed s(ates, had a right to per tecr grants on all such
entries as this,,at any time after 'the cession, and not
merely within the time Which was limitedby the, thern
of
existing laws of North Carolina; the conditions
of
act
the
in
aonfirmed
the cession being recited and
accepting
'83.
ch.
congress of the 2d of April, 1790,
ft4t cession.. -That the act of North Carolina of 1803,
ch. 3. for ceding this right to the state of Tennessee,
with the assent of ongress, was wholly inoperative<
and void, for want of that assent; congress not having assented sTmply And tfncondflio,'-dly, as was intraded by the Jegislature of North Carolina, but having coupTed its assent with conditions destructike
of the rights of that state and her citiZens, under the
14ct of cessron. That, consequently, the act 6f conr.
wress of the 18th of April, 1806, cli. 81. being found,
ed ori this act of-North-. CartDlina, an&on the act of
Tennessee of 1804, ch. 14., which rests on the, same
bwsis, is Without authority, and void. That even if
tlie act of North Carolind.of 1F03, ch. 3". were operativer it merely, gives the state of Tennessee concur:r#2t,-pir. with Nbrth Carolina for Ierfieting these

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1218.
titles and does not devest the power of the-latter state.
this
act
by
to
Tennessee
power
granted
that
if
the
And
Burton
v.
.was absolute and exclusive, while it existed, it reverted
to North Carolina, when Tennessee, by assenting to the Willias
conditions imposed by congress in the act of April
18th, 1806, ch. 31. disabled herself -from exercising this powet or procuration, according to
the terms and intentions of the grant fiom North
Carolina.&

Mr. CampelleII,'contra, contended, that the state of
North Carolina, by her act of 1803, . ch. 3. transferred to Tennessee all the power to issue grants reserved by her in the act of cession of 1789, on the
conditions that the state of Tennessee should agree
to said act as a compact between the twp - tates, and
that the assent of congress should be obtained there to. Tennessee did agree to the act, by her ow act
of 1304, ch..14. and the assent of congress was -given
thereto by-the act of the 19th of April,, 1805, .ch. 31.
Consequently, the state of North Carolina had no power to issue the grant in question. That the provisions in the act of congress of the 18th .of April, 1806,
ch. 31. relate only to the final deposition of the vacant
lands in Tennessee, remaining after -all the claims
from North Carolina are satisfied, according to the
conditions of the cession act, and do not impair the
right acquired under -titles derived from the latter
state. 'That the transfer of power to perfect grantl
from North Carolina to Tennessee vested it in the.

a Co. Lift. 52. 202. Srep. 21uchstene. 2M3

•53
1818.
Burton

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
latter, unconditionally and exclusively; and the power having once vested, cannot revert, or be de-

vested. The authorities cited, as to reversion of powv.
Willians. ers, upon a breach of the conditions on which they
were granted, are wholly inapplicable to transactions
betveen independent communities and *states. But
even supposing the'same rules in this respect were to
be applied to their acts,.as to' those of private individualsc he contended, that Tennessee had performed the
condition as near to the inient as might be, and that
whatever is an equitable, ought to be considered a legal execution of a power.a That the public documents, necessary to enable Tennessee to execute
the power in cuestion, were delivered to that
state according to the compact of 1803 ; and that it
wat executed by her from 1806 to 1811, with the apparent acquiescense of North Carolina, which state
•ought not, therefore, now to ble permitted to object
that the assent of congress thereto had not been sufficiently given.' That this assent was deemed necessa.
ry to comply with that provision in the constitution,
art. 1. s. 1'0. which declares, that "no state shall,
without the consent of congress, enter iilto an agreement or compact with another state," and because
-the United States hd an interest in the subject matter of the compact., This assent wa' not intended for the benefit, or to secure the interests, of North
Carolina; and the approbation of congress having
been sufficiently manifested, that state has no
a Co. Lilt. 217. Zouch v. Woolster et al. 2 Burr. 1138.
Earl of Darlington v. Pultney, Cowp. 260.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

right to object to the mode in which the assent wts

533
1818.

given. That by her act of cession, the state of 'North Burton
V.
Carolina reserved the right ib issue grants, only in
conformity to her then existing laws, but not to pass Williamus
new statutes upon the subject, like that of 1811.
And that the state of Tennessee, by an act passed in
1812, declared this grant, and all others issued under
similar circumstances, void; and provided, that they
should not be read as evidence -of-title in any court
of the state; thus asserting her exclusive'right under
the compact of 1803 to issue grants for lands within
the state.
4
Mr. Justice JoHNsoN ,leli- ered the opinion of "thegarcoh 1 .
court. This case originates in a collision of interest
and opinion, between the states of North 'Carolina and
Tennessee, and the United Sfates, relative to their 'respective rights, in certain instances, to perfect titles to
the soil of Tennessee. North Carolina, in the year
1812, issued the grant set up on the trial, in behalf of
the plaintiff. Both Tennessee and the United States
contend, that North Carolina has relinquished the right
to issue such a grant. And North Carolina replies,
that her cession was conditional; and that the conditi or,
has been violated, or that the casus faderis has never
arisen.
The whole difficulty arises from the obscure wording, or donibtfll construction, of the act of congress of
April 18th, 1806. But after comparing all the .acts
of the respective states upon the subject, reviewing
the events which led to the pissage of that'irt t
congress. and, determining the, motives which iii-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
fluenced the parties in making the compaci, -which the
of congress contains-, we are of opinion that, an exSact
Burton
V.
position may be given perfectly consistent with good
Williams: faith, and leaving to North Carolina no reasonable
ground for complaint. We here disavow all inclination, on the part of this court, to interfere, unnecessarily, in state altercations ; we enter into the consideration of such collisiorif Only so far as to secure individual right from being crushed' in the shock. But
inlall such discussions the questions necessarily arise,
-*hit bas a state granted ? and what was the extent of
its power to grant? Those questions cannot be avoided.
It will be recollected that the state of Tennessee
originally constituted a part of the state of North
-Carolina.; that in the year 1789, the latter state
made a cession, both of 6 oil and sovereignty, to the
United States, of all the soil and country now comprised witlAn the limits of Tennessee; and that in the year
1796,the state of Tennessee -was admitted into the
union. Previous'to the act of Cession, North Carolina had made; title to a considerable 1roportion of the
soil of Tennessee,'under circumstances which attached
-the title tP a 'designated portion of soil, so that nothing
morewas pecessary to vest a complete legal title,
but what, in contemplation of her laws, was a
mere formality, a survey and grant. In other instances she had issued warrants for a specified
quantity of land, but 'under which the holder had
not yet definitely fixed his landmarks, so that he
did not hold land, but only the evidence of a right
to acquire land. These, and several other descrip1818.

-

OP THEUNITED STATES.
11$
tions-of land-titlks, as they.' a-re called, the act of esto
Burton
individual,
the
to
sion makes provision for securing
.
.the full extent* to which he was entitled under the
laws of North Carolina. 'The words of the deed of WillIIfiar
cession are these: "Where entries have bqen made
agreeably to law, and titles under them not perfected
,by grant or otherwise, then, wd in that Case, the governor for the' time being shall, and he is hereby required to perfee, iTrom timae to time', such titles, in such
manner as if this act had never been passed! And that
all entries made by, or grants made to all and and every person or persdns whatsoever, agreeably to law,
and in the limits hereby intended to be ceded to'the
United States, shall have the same force and effebt .as
if-suh,cession had not been made; and that all and
every right of occupancy andt pre-emption, and every
other right reserved-by any act or acts, to persons s.ettled and -occupying lainds within the limits of the landshereby intended to be ceded as aforesaid shall continue to be in full force in the same manne: as if the
cession bad not been made, and as ponditions upon
-which the said lands are ceded to the Tdnited States;"'
and, "further it shall be understood," &c. making a
provision for the case of persons who shall lose the.
benefit of a location because of its having been' laid
on a place previously located, and declaring that "they
should be at liberty to remove the location of such entry or entries, to any lands on which no entry has been.
specifictilly located, or on any vacant lands inchiadd
within the limits of the-lands hereby intended ta be
ceded."

CASES IN THE* SUPREME COURT
'Thus under the act of cession- the United States
IN|S!
vatant lands of Tennessee,
oi': held the right of soil in the the
state of North. Carolina
qualified by the right which
V.
Willia m4

rietained bf perfecting the inchoate titles created under

Under the cesi hr own laws.,
sion act or" Whot the act was passed, admitting the .state of
North .Caro- .
lina of 1783 Tennessie into the uniolt, congress omitted to insert
ch. 3, retifed
by the act of any express provision respecting unappklt~ltated land;

congress of -andon this ciicuinstance the state of Tennessee set up
1790., ch. 33.a
the U. S. held a claim td all such land within her designated limits. -the domain of
vacant But still she was -embarrassed in the use of her suppothe
"lands in Tennessee, subjeetsed acquisition, by the rights which North Carolina reto the ri-bt.
tained of perfecting her own land titles,, alid she could
which X. 1,.
retained ofpernot obtain from a state a cession of that right without
leeing the in-

titlesthe consent of congress. This ;afforded the United'
States ultimately the meaiw of resuming, in part, the
her laws.
choate

created under

s6il that they were supposed inadvertently to have
ceded tq-Tennessee, and was the ground work of the.
1806. The
-The ac' of, 1 .corhpacvrhich is exibited in the act of
Carolina of state of North Carolina in the mean'tifie has passed
1803, ch. 3.
.
the state
iin!803,p titled "an act 'to authorise
. -- ':""t
grants toTen-pa
irrevo- pact
m~esse¢)
cabtsthepwpfTennessee toaperfect titleso land reserved to this
ero perfecting sat by the cession net," but expressly subject to the
a
cessi
e by. t
titles to land
reserved to N.asgnt of, congress ; and the two great objects of the
C. by the cessionact,andis aet of eongrss of 1806, as avowed in' the title, are
assented to by "to authorize the state of Tennessee t. issue grants
i
congress
their act Of.
1B06, ch.31. and,pefect

titles to certain lands therein described,
the claims to the vacant and unapproset.le
to
afd
priated lands within the same';" dr,,in other wortds,
to ena'ble the state of Tennessep to acquire the absolute unqualified right, (so far as it comported with'

OR} THE UNITED-STATES.
'Private right) of appyopriating the soil within its limits,
18IS.
and, eodem atu, to enter into a partition of that soil -Bnrton.
aro
with the U. States, .connected with the righf- thus acv..
quired from North Carolina. And such in effect is Williams..
the operation of the compact- of 1806. The two con,cting parties. commence with drawing a line across
the state, and then, stipulate tiat the soil to the westward shall be, vested -absolutely in the United Slates,and that to thi eastward in Tennessee. Now,,, it is'
-absurd to suppose that. when the United States pro-posed to acquireto themselves the- absolute dominionover the soil to the westward, that, they would havewithbeld that assent, without which Tennessee could
not acquire it, andf. of course, could not convey it 'to
the United States. The words in which the, assent
of congress is expressed, are found- in the. -close of
the 2d section; they are. these "to which' said act the
assent of congress is hereby given, so far as is necessary ta carry into effect. th objects of this coc ct."But these latter words, although at first view they mayappear to be restrictive, really in their operation,. as,
here applied, must give .the.utmost latittude to that:assent; because, nothing sha~t~orthqt latitude 'would give
effect to the, provisions of-the compact.. And upon
considering the act of North Carolina, to- which they
refer, it will obviously appear, that those restrictive words were introduced with a view-o, another'
object. There are se.veral .provisions, of mere detail,
contained in that act ; 'these could take effect without
the assent of congress) and to-those. provisions these
restrictive words must have had reference.
Voi. [IL
-69

638

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

But, it is contended, that in the very compact between'the United States and Tennessee, the conditions
'
Burton
of the act, of cession have been violatedp and the state
V.
Williams. of North Carolina was authorized to resume her rights.
or conclusion of
The det orWithout admitting either the premises
observe, that it
to
permitted
be
may
we
this'argument,
of
congress
members of the
The
does not vio- is at least a perilous doctrine.
late the cesAmerican family possens ample means oft defence unsion act.
der the constitution, we hope ages to 6ome will verify.
Bat happily for our domestic harmony, the power of
aggressive operation against iach other is taken away;
and the difficulty and danger of applying to the contracts of independent states, the principles of the com!non law relative to conditions- would, if necersary,
incline this court to consider words of condition,'irA
1818.

such cases, as words of .,ontract.

In this instance,

the state of North Carolina has asserted the common
law right of entering for condition broken, and the unfortuna, 'consequences may well be held up as a warning to others
But in this case the words used are not words of
condition. OA the contrary the words of 6ondition
used with relation to the provision for securing vested
freehold rights are dropped and thosb applied to the
other class of rights are appropriate only to stiptlation or contract, "it shall be understood," &c. are
the words as expressed in the quotation fromthat act.
All the operation, then, which can be given to the
provisions of the session act, on the subject of these
floating rights, is that of the stipulations of a treaty;
and all the obligation resulting from those provisions,.
as well on behalf, of the United States as' of Ten--

OF THE UNITED STATES.

58!

nessee, was, that it should be honourably and in good 1810.
faith executed. And this has been done. No more Burton
control has leen exercised over those floating claims
v.
than North Carolina might have exercised, and no ob- Williams.
ligation which North Carolina acknowledged with re
gard to those rights has been violated.
The injuries complaindd of are, that these floating.
rights have-been restricted in their original range, so as
not to be permitted now to be located 'to the. westward
of the line of demarkation, and that they have also
been restricted to the eastward by the stipulations of
Tennessee, to make certain appropriations for schools.
But this reasoning is fdunded upqn two -assumptions
that cannot possibly be admitted, to wit : That North
Carolina herself could not, if she had thought proper,
have made these appropriationg bfore the act of ces"sion, and that after the act of cession, the United
States could not have set apart any portion of the un-

located land for specified purposes; or, in fact, have
issued any grants or warrants for ira-ppi*rhted
land, until these floating claims had finally found a
place of rest, after landing and embArking again a
hundred times. It would have been nugatiry under
such circumstances to have made a cession of territory. 'These claims were not forgotten; Tennessee
stipulates to make provision for them -on her side of.
the line, and the United States to make provision on the
other side, if Tennessee cannot sa'isfy them; so that
the whole country is in fact open to the holders of these
rights; but they are only in the first instance directedto a particular tract of country to iiake their selections.

CASES :N 'THE - SUPREME COURT

:840

With regard to the objection; that the appropriation
of theselands was made to a single state, 'when they
Burton
were expressly given- for- the use of the United States,
IFo
in
Williams. including North Carolina, there'is certainly nothing
.it; for the-erection of a 'state may have appeared to
congress the most beneficial general purpose to which
prothose lands could be appropriated f nor -can the
hibition to locate warrants on the Cherokee, lands'be
objected to, when it is contidered that it was actually
illegal under the laws of North Carolina: and the stipulation is expressly made in sibservience to the laws
1818.

'

of that state.
U pn the whole, we. are decidedly of opinion, thai

N.
aroih
.. ecesso

Y

has, parted with the pow-

state of North Carolina
andthe coc
"lS03,ci.3haser to issue thisgrant, and could- not resume it,

Bat

parted viththe
we must decide against the action of the plain.Lo issue although
righttforlands
. .
gra
tiff in this wase, Because it rests'upon that grant, it must
Tennessee,
in
upon ,entries

right
obefore not be interred that we think uifavourably of'his

•

as far
tcsso, to the lar4. On the contrary, we have no doubt,
hc-d! as appears in this, record.-ofthe obligation on the Uthe

of such
gr1nts may re- td -States .to make provision' for'issuing a' grant in his
ition..qU r;,'anid in'ihe mean lime the courts of the Uniteld
.t
equity juris States are not without resources in their
'
nt -oSdiction'too afford him-relief.

,Judgipent aflire.

