REPORTS
OF

THE DECISIONS
OF THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES.
FEBRUAR Y TERM, 1818.

(COMt4ON LAW-.)
JACKSON,

ex dem.
N

THE PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF

g-YORx, "v.CLARKE.

G.. C., born in the colony of Now-York, vent to England in 1738, where
he resided until his diqease; end being seized of lands in New,York, he, on the 30th of November, 1776, 'in England, devi.sed the
same to the defendant, and E. C.,as tenants in common, and died so
seized on the 10th December, 1776. The defendant and E. C. havIng entered, and becoming possessed, E. C. on the 3d December, 1791
his interest. The defendant and
bargained and sold to the defendant ail
E. C. wore both born in England long before the revwoution. On thp
twenty-seceond of March, 1791, the legislature of New-York passed an
act to enable the defendant to purchase lands, and to hold all other
lands which lie might then he entitled to within the state, by nurchase or descent, in fee simple, and to sell and dispose of the same
in the same manner as tny natural born citizen might' do. The
treaty between the United States and Great Britain of 1794, contains
the following provision : "Article 9th. It is agreed that British subjtcts who now hold lands in the territories of the United States, and
American citizens who now hold lands in the dominions of his majesty,
1

o0L. III.

2

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
shall continue to hold them according to the nature and tenure of their
Srespective estates and tites therein; and may granz, sell, or devise
the same.to v.olom they please, in like manner as if they were naJacksorn
tives, and that neiiher they, nor theirheirs, or assigris shall, so Cir as
C.
respocts the said lands and the legal remedies incident thereto, bo ccin1818.

sidered as aliens."

The defendant at the time of the action lbrugit.

was entitled to
stiU continued to be,a British subject. Held, that h-3

hold the lands so devised to him by G. C., 'and tran,ferred to him
by E. G.

ERRO. to the circuit court for the district of NewYork.
This was an action of ejectment commenced in the
supreme court of the state of Nev-York, and %removed thence into the circuit court of the United States,
for the New-York district, where, in September, 1815,
a trial was had, and a special verdict found, in the
words following, to wit :
At wrhich day in this same court, at the city of
New-York, in the New-York district, came the parties aforesaid, by their attorneys aforesaid, and the jurors aforesaid being called also cotn, who to say the
truth of the above contents, being elecifd, tried and
sworn, say, ipon their oath, that long before the above
mentioned time, when the trespass and ejectment above
mentioned, are supposed to have been committed,
namely, on the tenth day of, April,,1706, Anne,
Queen of England, by letters patent under the great
seal of the then colony of New-York, did grant unto
Sampson Broughton, and divers other persons in the
said letters patent named, and their heirs, a certain
tract of land, situate in the then colony, now state of
New-York,- to have and to hold the same to them,
their heirs and assigns, forever, as tenants in common,

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1818.
and not as joint tenants. And that the lands and
tenements, with their appurtenances specified in the Jackson
v.
foregoing declaration of the said James Jackson, were
Clarke.
as
granted,
land
of
tract
said
the
part and parcel of
aforesaid, by the said letters patent. And the jurors
aforesaid, upon their oath aforesaid, further say, that
the said Sampson Broughton, and the said other persons to whom the said tract of land was granted as
aforesaid by the said letters patent, being so seized ifee simple, and possessed of the said tract of land by
virtue of the said letters patent, did afterwards, to wit:
on the twelfth day of April, in the year last aforesaid,
by good and sufficient cqnveyance and assurance in
the law, for a valuable consideration, grant, bargain,
sell, and convey unto George Clarke, now deceased,
(who was formerly lieutenant governor of the said
colony, and who was then a subject .of England, and
who remained so until the time of his death,) and to
his hetrs, one equal undivided ninth part of the 'said
tract ocf lard granted as aforesaid, in and by the said
letters patent, to have and to hold to him, his heirs
and assigns, forever. And the jurors aforesaid, upon
their oath aforesaid, further say, that partition of the
said tract of land mentioned in the said letters patent
was afterwards, to wit, in the year last aforesaid,
made in due form of law, between the last aforesaid
George Clarke, and the other proprietors of the said
tract of land mentioned and granted in and by the
said letters patent. And that by virtue of the said
partition, the last aforesaid George Clarke became,
and was sole seized in fee simple, and possessed' of the
lands and tenements, with the appurtenances specified
in the said declaration of the said James Jackson,

CASES IN THPE SUPREME COURT
1818.

and continued to be so seized and possessed thereof,

Jackson
v.
Clarke.

untl lthe~time of his death., And that the last aforesaid George Clarke died so seized and possessed, in
the year 1759. And the jurors aforesaid, upon their
oath aforesaid, further say, that George Clarke, who
was late -secretary of the colony 6f New-York, was
the eldest son, and heir at law of the before mentioned George Clarke, formerly lieutenant governor, as
aforesaid. And that, upon me death of the said
George Clarke, formerly lieutenant governor as
aforesaid, the said George Clarke. late secretary
as aforesaid, as spn and heir, as aloresaidi entered up-.
on, and was seized in fee simple, and possessed the
lands and tenements, with the appurtenances specified in the said 'declaration of the said James Jackson.
'And being so seized and possessed, did afterwards, to
wit, on the thitieth day of November, 1776, at Hyde,
in the county palatine of Chester, in the kingdom of
Great Britain, make and publish, in due form of law
to pass real estate, lis last will and testament, and did
thereby devise unto his grand nephews, the said
George Clarke, the defendant in the said declaration
named, and Edward. Clarke, and to their heirs and
assigns, as tenants in common, and not as joint tenants, the lands and tenements in the said declaration
specified, with the appurtenances. And the jurors
aforesaid, upon their oath aforesaid, further say, that
the said George Clarke, late secretary as aforesaid,
afterxwavds, to wit, on the tenth day of December, 1776,
at Hyde aforesaid, in the said county palatine of Chester, in the sdid kingdom of Great Britain, died so seized and possessed as aforesaid, and without having altered or revoked his said last will and testament. And

OF THE UNITED STATES.
the jurors aforesaid, upon their oath aforesaid, further
1618.
say, that upon the denth of the said George Clarke, Jackson
late secretary as aforesaid, the said George Clarke,
- v.
the said defendant, and the said Edward Clarke, claim- Clarke.
ing under the said last will and testament, entered
upon, and became possessed of; the- said lJads. aid
tenements, with the appurtenances, in the said declaration specified. And the said George Clarke, the said
defendant, and the said Edward Clarke,,being actuallypossessed of the.said land§ and tenements,-vith the appurtenances, in the said declaration' specified, as under the said last will and testament, the saidl Edward
Clarke did afterwards, to wit, on the twenty-third day
of December, 17 9 1,y a deed of bargain and sale, duly executed, grant, bargain and sell,, for a valuable
consideration, t6 the said George Clarke, the'said de-.
fendant, and his beits, one equal moiety of the said,
lands and tenements, with the appurtenances, in the
said declaration specified) and all the estate and interest of the said Edward Clarke, in and to the- said lands
iand tenements last aforesaid, with the appurtenances,
to have and to hold the same to the said George Clarke,
the said defendant, his heirs, and asigns ;by reason,
whereof, the said" George Clarke, thle said defendant,
entered upon, and became, And was actually possessed of, the said lands and tenements, iwith the appur
tenances, in the said declaration specified, claiming tobe seized thereof in fee simple, and so continued until
the entry of the.people of the state of New-York, heteafter mentioned. And the jurors aforesaid upon their
oath aforesaid, further say, that the said George Clarke ,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
late secretary as aforesaid, was born in the city of
1818.
the late colony, now state of New-York,
New-York, irn
'
Jackson
V . and that in the year 1738 he went to that part of
Clarke. Great Britain called England, and thenceforth continued -to live, and reside thdre on fiis family estate
until and at the time when he 'made and published
his said last will and testament, and ever after, and*
until and at 'the. lime'of his deatl. And the jurors
aforesaid, upon their oath aforesaid, further say, that
on the fourth day of July, in the year 1776,, the late
colony, of New-York, together with the other coloihies
of'Great Britain in North America, no w called the
United States of America, declared themselves free
and independent states, and that frqm that day to the
first day of September, in the year 1783, the said United States, and the citizens thereof, were at open and
public war with the king of Great Britain and his subjects. Ana ihe'jurors aforesaid, upon their oath aforesaid, further say, that the said George Clarke, the said
defendant, wasborn in England, on the twenty-eighth
day of Apiil, in the year 1768. And that the said Edwaid Clarke was born in' England, on the twenty-eighth
day of November, in the year of our Lord 1770. And
that the said George Clarke, the said defendant,
and the said Edward Clarke, were both British subjects.
And the jurors aforesaid, on their oath aforesaid, further say that the said George Clarke, late seci etary as
aforesaid, died without issue, and thdt at the time of
his death one George Hyde Clarke was his nephew;
and that the s'aid George Hyde Clarke, if he is capable
Qf inheriting the real estate of the said George Clarke,

OF THE UNITED STATES.
late secretary as aforesaid, within the state of New1818.
York, is the heir at law 'of the said George Clarke,I Jackson
late secretary as aforesaid; and that the said George
v.
Hyde Clarke was born in Great Britain,. before the Plarke.
fourth day of July, inthe year 1776: and hath ever since
resided, and still doth reside in Great Britain, and'is
still living; and that no other person than the said
George Hyde Clarke is, or can be, the heir at law of
the said George Clarke, late secretary as aforesaid,; and
that the said George Hyde Clarke, is cappble of inheriting the real estate of lhe saia George Clarke, late
secretary as aforesaid, within the state of New-Ybrk,
unless he is incapable of inheriting such real estate, by
reason of his having been born, nd having resided in,
Great Britain as aforesaid. And the jurors aforesaid,
on their oath aforesaid, further say, that on the eighth
day of February, in the year 1791, the said George
Clarke, the said defendant, caused to be presented to
the legislature of the state of New-York, a petition, in
the words following, to wit:
To the honourable the sen ate and assembly of the
state of New-York, in legislature convened : The petition of George Clarke humbly showeth, that your petitioner was born in England, and i: great grandson of
George Clarke, formerly lieutenant goveruor of New.
Yoik; that he resided in the city of New-Yor for
about a year preceding the month of October last, with
intention, at the end of two years, to have Veen naturalized under the statute of the United States; that he
was unexpectedly called abroad on important business,
buit expects to return in the course of the ensuing sum.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1818.

mer; and as his naturalization must now be unavoida-

ly suspended, to the great embarrassment of his afJackson
V.
fairs, your petitioner humbly prays that his name may
Clarke.' be inserted in the bill now before the honourable the
legislature, to grant a similar privilege of hwlding lands
within this state, notwithstanding the want of naturalization, and your'petitioner shall pray, &c.
GEORGE CLARKE,
By GOLDSB. BAgYnR, and JAs. DUANE,
his Attorneys.
And the jurors aforesaid, upon their oath aforesaid,
further say, that on the twenty-secind day of March,
in the year 1791, an act was passed by the legislature, of
the state of New-York, in the woxds following, to wit :
"An act to enable Francois Christophe Mantel, and the
several other persons therein named, to purchase and
hold real estates within this state. Be it enacted by the
people of the state of New-York, represented in senate and assemkly, and it is hereby enacted by the authority of the same, that it sha.11 and may be lawful for
Francgis Christophe Mantel, Samuel Clows, junior,
Sf.tnuel Richardet, William Robert O'Hara, Erick
Glad, George. Turnbull, Thomas Mounsey,. and Jan
Barnhard, respectively,.to .1ufcbase lands, tenements
and hereditaments within this state, and to have and to
hold the same to them respectively, and their respective heirs and assigns, forever, as fully to all intents and
purposes as any natural born ciizen may or can do,
any law, usage, or custom, to the contrary notwithstanding. And b6 it further enacted by the authority
aforesaid, that it slall and may be lawful for George

OF THE UNITED STATES.
Clarke, who is great grandson of George Clarke,'form1818.
erly lieutenant governor of New-York, to purchase any Jackson
lands, tenements or hereditaments within this state, and
v.
to have and to hold the same, and all other lands, ten- C1arke.
ements and hereditaments which he may now be entitled to within this state, by purchase or descent, to
him the said George Clarke first above named, his
heirs and assigns, to his and their own proper use and
belhoof forever, and to. sell and dispose of the same,
or any part thereof, 'as ftily, to all intents and ptirposes, as any natural born citizen may or'can do, any
law, usage or custom to the contrary notwithstanding." And the jurors aforesaid, on their oath aforesaid, farther say, :tbat the said George Clarke, the
said defendant, and the said George Clarke, dreat-'
,grandson of George Clarke, former lieutenant, governor of New-York, mentioned in the said act, Is
one and the same -person. And the jurors aforesaid,
on their oath aforesaid, further say, that on the first
day of May, in the year 1810, the said George Clarke,
the said defendant, was in actual possession and occu
pation of the said lands and-tenements, in the said .Uc
laration specified, with the appurtenances, 'and that bn
the day and year,last aforesaid, the'.said people of the
State of New-York, lessos of the *aid James Jackson
entered into the said tenements, with .the appurtenan-.
ces, and from thence put out and removed the last
aforesaid George, Clarke, and' were seized thereof as
the law requires ; and.being so seized thereof, the said
people, on the day and year last.afoaesaid, demised to
the said James Jackson, the tenements aforesaid, wit h
VOL. III.
3

LO

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1818. the appurtenances, to have Pnd to hold to the said
James Jackson, and his assigns, from the said first day of
a
Jackson
May then last past, until the full end and term of twenv.
Clarke. ty-one years from thence next.ensuing, and fully to be
complete and ended, in the manner in which the said
demise is set forth in the said declaration of the said
James Jackson. By virtue of which said demise, the
said James Jackson entered into the said lands and tenements, with the appurtenances, and was thereof possessed; and he being so posessed thereof, the said
George Clarke, the said defendant, afterwards, to wit,
on the tenth day of May, in the year last aforesaid,
with force and arms, &c. entered into the said tencments, with the appurtenances, which bad been demised to the said James Jackson as aforesaid, and
ejected, expelled and amoved the said James Jackson from his, said possession, as the said James Jackson
hath above complained against the last aforesaid1 George
Clarke.
And the jurors aforesaid, upon their oath aforesaid, further say, thit at the time of the commencement of this action, the tenements aforesaid, in the
said declaration specified, were, and ever since have
been, and yet are, of a valud exceeding the sum of five
hundred dollars, exclusive of all costs and expenses.
And the jurors aforesaid, on their oath afdresaid,,
further say,.that the said James Jackson, at the time
of the commencement of this action, vas and yet is
a citizen of the state of New-York, in the United
States of America. And that at the time of the commencement of this action, the said George Clarke, the
said defendant; in the said declaration named, was and

OF THE UNITED STATEt.
yet is a subject of the king of the united kingdom of
Great Britain and Ireland.

But whether

1818.

upon the

Jackson
whole matter aforesaid, by the jurors aforesaid, in
V,
manner aforesaid found, the said George Clarke,' the Clarke.
said defendant, is guilty of the trespass and ejectment above mentioned, the said jtirors. are entirely ignorant, and pray the advic of the court thereon.
And if it shall.appear to this court, that th last aforesaia George Clarke, in construction of law, is guilty
of the trespass and ejectment above mentioned, then
the said juroxs say upon their oath, that the last aforesaid George Clarke is guilty of the trespass and ejectment in the said declaration of the said James Jackson
mentioned, in manner and form, as the said James
Jackson 'hath above in his said declaration complained. And they assess the damages which the said
James Jackson hath sustained, by reason of the 'said
trespass and eje'ctment, besides his costs and charges
by him about his suit in this behalf expended, at six
cents, and for his said costs and charges at six cents.
And if it shall appear to the court, that the last aforesaid George Clarke is not guilty of the said trespass
and ejectment, then the said jurors say upon.their oath,that the last aforesaid George Clarke is not guilty
thereof, in manner and'form as he hath above in his
plea alleged.
On ,the foregoing special verdict, judgment vas
rendered for tne defendant, George Clarke, by the
eircuit court, to reverse which, this writ of error was
brough
Mr. Champlin, for the plaintiff in error, made the Feb. 5.
following points, and cited the authorities in the'mai-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

.2
1818.
'
Jackson
V.

Clarke.

gin. 1. That Secretary George Clarke, at the time of
-his death, was an alien enemy, and there being at that
time no statute of wills in force in the state of New-

York, the people of the state, at his death, became
seized of the premises.e 2. That Secretary George
Clarke, beipg an alien enemy, had'no power to make a
valid will, or alien his estate in any manner whatever.&
3. His will being void, and George Hyde Clarke being
an alien eneray, took nothing by descent. 4. That, after the death of Secretary George Clarke, there was no
person competent to take the premises by inheritance
or devise, whereby the people of the state of New York
at his death, became ipsofacto possessed thereof, wi;hout
office found.
Mr. D. B. Ogden, contra,
court.

was stopped by the

Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion
of the court, that every question arising in the cause had
been settled by former'decisions.
Judgment affirmed, with costs.e
a Dawson v. Godfrey, 4
Gardner v.
Cranch, 321.
Wade, 2 .Mass. Rep. 244.

Campbell v. Hall, Cowp. 208.
Vallel, L. 3, ch. 5. s. 7.

b 5 Bac. .fbr. Tit. Will. B. 499. 7 Co. Rep. 33. 1 B1.

Com. 372.
cIn the, case of IV'llvainev. there until.1777, but who then
Coxe's lessee, 3 Cranch, 209, joined the British army, and
the court determined that a per- ever since adhered to the Brisonborn in the colony of New- tish government, has a right
Jersey, before the declaration t6 takelands by descent in the
of independence, and residing state of New-Jersey. But in

OF THE UNITED STATES.
Dawson's lessee v. Gomicy, 4[ those lands of which he was
Granbh,321, it was held that a seised befere -the revolution,
person born in England befor(e but not of those of which he
the declaration of indepen.- was subsequently seised. Kelly
dence, and who always reside( I v. Harrison, 2 Johns. Cas. 29.
there, and never was in thE The same court has also d.United Stt-es, could not tak(e ternined, that where a Britis,
lands in Maryland by descent. subject died seized of lands in
And in the case of Smith v.* the state in 1752, leaving
the State of Maryland, -* daughters in England who marCranch,286, it was determined ried British subjects, and nei
that by the acts of Maryland, ther they nor their wives were
1780,ch, 45 and 49, the equita- citizens of the Unitted States;
ble interests of British subjects even if the marriages were subin lands were conhscated, and sequent to the revolution, such
vested in the state, without of- marriages would notimpair the
fice found, prior to the treaty of rights of the wives, nor prevent
peace of 1783, so that the Brit- the full enjoyment of the propish ceslui que irusl was not pro- eity according, to the laws of
tected by the stipulation in that the marriage state, especially
treaty, against future confisda- after the 5th provision in the
tions, nor by the stipulation in 9tharticle of the treaty of1794
the 9th article of the treaty of The court seemed also to think
1794, securing to British sub- that where the title to land in
jects, who then held lands in the state was acquired by a
this country, the right to con- British subjectprior to the revolution, the right of such Britinue to hold them.
In the supreme' court of N. tish subject to transmit the
York it has been held, that same by descent, to an heir in
where a married wyman was a esse at the time of the revolusubject of Great Britain before tion, continued unaltered and
the revolution, and alvays con- unimpaired; the case of a revolinued such, but her husband lution or division qf an empire
resided in this country both be- being an exception to the gen-'
fore and after that period shc eral rule of law, that an alien
was entitled to dower out of cannot take by descent. Jack-

1818.
Jackson
V.

Clarke.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
sonv. Lumn. 3 Johns. Cas. 109.
See also Jackson v. Wright, 4
•
The Friend- o
R. 75. The treaty of
schaft. 'onns.
1704, relates only to lands ther.
held by British subjects, and not
1818.

.o any after acquired lands.
Jackson v. Decker, 11 Johns.
R. 418,422.
In the case of Fairfax's devisea v. Hunter's lessee, 7
i'ranch, 603, and ante, vol. I.
'p. 304. it was adjudged, Ist.
That dn alien enemy may take
by purchase though not by descent; and that; -%,hether the
purchase be by grant or by devise. 2d. That the title thus ac-

quired by an alien enemy is no
devested until office fotind.
3d. That whether the treaty
of peace of 1783, declaring
that no future confiscations
should be made, protects from
forfeiture, under the municipal
laws respecting alienage, lands
held by British subjects at the
time of its ratification, or not,
yet that the 9th article of the
treaty of It94 completely protected the title of a British devisce, whose e&tate had pot
been preyiously devested by an
inquest ofoffice, or some eqiyalet proceeding

(PRIZE.)

The FRIENDSCHAFT-Wfinn, et al. Claimants.
court corrected and
Informal and imperfect proceedings in the district
explained in the circuit court.
unaccompanied
A bill oflading, consigning the goods to a neutral, but
to entitle
evidence
sufficient
not
is
advice,
of
by an invoice or letter
foundation for the
a
lay
to
sufficient
is
but
restitution;
to
the claimant
iitroduction of farther proof.
being found on board,
The fact of invoices aud letters of advice not
spoliated. But even
been
have
papers
that
suspicion
a
induce
may
a cargo chiefly
carrying
if it were proved that an enemy master,
to whom
claimant,
neutral
a
board,
over
papers
hostile, had thrown

from farther
no fraud is impatable, ought not thereby to be prccluded
proof.

