'CAS8S IN THE SUPREME COURT.
permitting all thecases in which the ]ase
Uitted States,
American vessels to sail with ports were not within the
"
'Robiumn provisions from the ports of ternsof the orders in coutcl
certain iescriptions
qazpbeli. the United-tates to'the islarn -by which
of St.Bartholomews, but not of licences granted by Mr.
eonfir.med by an order in coun- Forster 'had been -confirme&
18)lk

cit. Tbe~lords-condemned in

b.

'(CONS'rTUTIONAL ANb LOCAL LAW.)
ROBINSON T. CAMPBELL.
the compact of I802, settling the boundary line betwein Virginia ants
Tennessee, and the laws made in pursuance thereof, it ie declared that
all claims and titles to tands derived from Virginia, or North Carolina,
or Tennessee, whichhave fallen into the respective states, shall remiiB
as secure to the owners thereof, as if derived roiomthe gnvsinwunt
within whose boundary they have fillen, and shall not be prejudietil
or affected by the establishment of the line. Where the titles, bet!
of the pJaintiff and ddfendant in ejectmient were derived under grant.
from Virginia, to lands which fell within the limits of Tennessee, it
was held that a prior settlement right thereto which would, in equity,
give the party a title, could not-be asserted as a sufficient title in'am
action of ejectment brought in the circuit coutt of Tennessee.
. Although the state courts'of Tennessee have decided, that under their
statutes declaring an elder grant founded on a junior entry to be void,
a junior patent "futnded on e prior entry shall prevail at law against
4 senior. patent !'founded on a junior entry; this doetriva, has never
been extended beyond cases within the express purvier of the statute of, Tennessee, and could not apply to the present case 'Qf titles
deriving all their validity from the laws of Virginia, and cpnfirmed by
the compact between the two states.
*The general ruli is, that remedies in respect to real property are to be
,pursued acqording to the lex loci reisite. The acts of the two state

OF THE UNITED STATES.
.t]s:

e to be onstrued as fiving the same validity and eflect to ihe tiLs
intho-disputed territory as they had, or would have, in the state, by Robinsow
which they were granted, leaving dab remedies to enforce 'such titles
V. .
Campi] .
to be .egalated by the kexfori.
?Jme
'rmqdies
in t4pottrjis of the United Statps, at camnion law andip
emity, are Io bp, not according to the practice of state courjs, but
actoroing to the principles of common law and equity, as diinliguish.d
snd defined in that country from which we derive our knollodge of
besme
principles. Consistently with this 'doctrine it may'Wrmitted,
SWhre,by the statutes of a state, a title which would 4hfrwqe
.tj
daerood qqraly eqquitable, is recognized as a legal tige, or a title
wlebh would hbe
valid at law, is, under circumstances 4f an equitable
Nature, declared void, the right of the parties in such ctaso may be as
Ailly considered in a suit at law, in the courts of the United Siates, at
Jiu4uy state court.
-A C4911Yyakoe by the plaintiffs l0ss9 during rte pendency of ap, actiop
ofejeetmnt, can only operate upon lia reversionary interest, ard cannot extinguish the prior lease. Ti-e Oxstsbce of such lease is a fi.
tion: but it is upheld for the purposes of justice. If it expire during
thependency or a suit, the plaintiff cannot r cover his term at law,
without procuring it tobhe enlarged by thercourt, and can proceed only
for antecedent damages.
"Iathe above case it was. held that the statute 9 f limitations of Tennes.
see was not a good bar to the action, there being no proof that the
land in controversy were always %%ithin.the original limits of T-en,nessee, and the statute could not begin to rpn until it was aacerjainel
by the comnact of18Q2 that the )apdfell
within the jurisdictional lint.
itsof Tennessee.

-

Extot to the district court of East Tenessee.
This was an action of ejectment 'brought by the;defendant in error, (the plaintiff's lessor in the court below,) against the 'present plaintiff, and S. Maxtin, on
the 4th of February, 1807, in the district court for the
district of East Tennesee, which possessed circuit
court powers. The defendant in that court pleaded
separately the general issue, as to 400 acres, and dis-

oclainmed all right to the residue of the tract specified

CASES IN ThE SUPREME COURT
1818.
Rbno
R.

in the declaration. A verdict was given for the plaintiff in October term, 1812. From the stqtement contained'in the bill of exceptions, taken at the trial of

Campbell. the cause, it appears that the land for which the action
was brought, is situated between two lines, run in 1779
Ly Walker and Henderson, as the boundary lines of
Virginia and North Carolina. The former state claimed
jurisdiction to the line run by Walker, and the latter to'
the lind run by Henderson. After the separation of
Tennessee from North Carolina, the controversy between Virginia and Tennessee, as to boundary, was settled in 1802, by Tunning a line equidistant from the
former lines. The land in dispute fell within the state
of Tennessee. Both the litigant parties claimed under
grants issued by the state of Virginia, the titles to lands
derived from the said state having been protected by
the act of Tennessee, passed in 1803 for the settlement
of the houndary line.
The plaintiff rested his title on a grant, (founded on
a treasury warrant) to John Jones, dated August the
1st, 1787, for 3,000 acrep; 1,500 acres of which were
conveyed to the lessor by Jones, on the 14th of April
1788; and proved pqssession in the defendant when
the suit was commenced.
The- defendant, to support his title to the said 400
acres, offered in evidence a grant fdr the same to Joseph Martin, dated January 1st, 1788, founded on a
settlement-right, and intermediate conveyances to himself. He also offered in evidence, that a settlement
was made on said land, in 1778, by William Fitzgerald, who assigned his settlement-right to the said Jo-

OF ,THE UNITED STATES.
seph Martin; that a certificate in, right of settlement 1818.
was issued to Martinby the eommissioners for adjust- " obinson
ingtit1s , to unpatented lands; on -hich certificate,
V.
and on the payment of the composition money, the Campbell.
above grant was issued.. This evidence was rejected
by the court below, The defendant also offered in.evidence a deed of conveyance from the plaintiff's lessor
to Arthur L. Campbell, dated January 2d, 1810, for
the land in dispute; but the same was also rejected.
He also claimed the benefit of the statute of limitations
of the state of Tennessee, on the ground that he, and
those under whom he. claims, had been in continued
and peaceable possession of the 400 acres §ince the
year 1788.
The court decided that the statute 'dd not apply.
The cause was then brought before this court by writ
of error.
Mr. LJaw for the plaintiff in error, argued, 1. That
the defendant below ought to haie been permitted to
give evidence showing that his grant had preference
in equity over the plaintiff's grant. By the law, as
settled in Tennessee, the prior settlement right of the
defendant, though an equitable tit]e, might be set up as
a sufficient title in an action at law. The opinion of the
*judge below proceeds on the idea that .the Virginia
practice must prevail, under which such a title could
only be asserted in equity. The acts for carrying into
effect the compact settling the boundary, declare- that
the claims and titles'derived from Virginia shall not be
.affected or prejudiced by the change of jurisdic.

:Feb 241h.

116

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

8S. tion. "ut are the claims and titles less secure, if the
of legal proceedings of Tennessee be adopted?
]Robingft'
Is there any difference whether the plaintiff 4 grant
y, .
Cknnpbdl. be vacated on the equity side of the court, or ten.'
'.tbrms

dered inoperative in an action of ejectment? It is
admitted, that as to the nature, validity, and construction oi contracts, the Ax ;loi must prevail. But the
tribunals of one. 6ountry' hive never carried theit
courtesy to other countriet s6 far' as to change the
form of action, and'the course of judic&l proceedings,
or the time within which the action must be commeneed..' 2. The deed from the pluitiff's lessor, pending the suit, showed an outst4nding title in another, and ought to have prevented-the plaintiff from recotering b 3. It is a universal Principle that the stattte of limitations of the place' where the suit id.
brought is to govern in determining the time -wthim
which a suit must be commenced.c 4. New exceptions
to the operition of the statute of limitations as to real,
property cannot b. constructively establi.hed by
the courts.d

The statute of limitations of Tennies-.

see ought, to be applil to suits commenced in the
eourts of Tennessee for lands which were always
within the jqrigdictioz of that state as claimed by her,
?id which fell-within' her territory upon the final settlement of' the boundary. The title to such lands,
Vay be determinable only by the law of Virginia
a Chilly on, Bills; 111. note (h.) American Ed. .of' 1817, and tt k
$hOrities there cited.

1 Cruise on Real Proper4, 503. 537.
c Chilly on BIlls, lb.
&MIver v, Ragan, 2 Wheal. 25.,

OF THE UNITED STATES.
but the mode of pursuing the remedy on that title must
1818.
depend ion the lex fort.
Robiso
The Aftorney General, contra, insisted, that by the CamphelL
compact between the two states, the law of Virginia,
was made the law of the titles to these lands. By
the settled practice of that state, as well as the established doctrine of the common law, the legal title
must prevail iL a court of law. The case of real
property is an exception to the general rule, as to applying the statute of limitations according to the lex
Jori, and not according to the lex loci. Generally
speaking, suits for such property must be commenced
in the courts of the country where the land lies, and,
cousequently, both the right and the remedy are to
be determined 'by one and the same law. But this is
an anomalous case depending, upon the peculiar nature and provisions of the compact of 1802, between
the two states. The statute of ltmitations of Tennessee could not operate upon these lands until they
were ascertained to lie in Tennessee ; and the peculiar
rule established by the courts of Tennessee, permitting
an equitable title to be asserted in an actin.-at law,
would not apply to a controversy concerning titles
wholly depending on :he law of Virginia. The proceedings in ejectment are fictitious in form, but for all
the purposes of substantial justice they are considered
as real. If the term expire pending the action, the
court will permit it to he enlarged, and no conveyance
by the lessor of the plaintiffs while the suit is going on
can operate to extinguish the prior lease. The court
VOL. II.
29

CASES IN THE SUPRE f
I88.
•~"~
R.obin
on
4Campbeli.

COURT

lbelovw therefore, committed no error in refusing to perlessor to
mit"the deed of conveyance from the
I plaintiff's
existence
the
establish
,to
order
be given in evidence in
of an outstandinE title,

Mr. Justice TaD delivered the opinion of theL
court, and, after stating the facts4,,proceeded as followsis-, whether the circuit court were
A prior set- The.first question
evidence,offered'by the defendant
the
rejecting
Iloment right, right in
establish a title in himself under the grant of Josepir
It
which. woud,
the party a .ti'Martin, that grant being' posterior in date to the grant.
lecantbe
asserted as a under which the plaintiff' elaimed; and this depends upgufficient title
h
right,
te
ept settlement
at on the consideration, whether a prior
an action
in
raw,
wl h would, in equity, give the party a title to the
circuit
in
thebrought
Ten,
i~ct ofrui
be asserted also, asa sufficient title in an acqv.:t oftorTeneco- land7 can
alessee
verlandslying tion of ejectment.
within the disbetweleen Vir...
settling the boundary line between
r edteritory By the compact
in purginia and Ten-Virginia and Tennessee, and the' laws. made
thef
nessee, and
and titlesw
whiee, by the suancethereof,itis declared, that all claims
or
Virginia,
of
compact of to lands derived from the governments
1802, fell with
in the limits o North-Caralinat or Tennessee, which have illen intoTennessee,the
he
itles of both the respective states; shall remafin as secure to
Fcb. 24th.

-parties bcin
government
derived fmo, owners thereof, as if derived from the

grants by irwithin

whose line they have falleni and shall not be
in anv wise prejndiced or affect~d iii consequence of
the establishrenent of the said line. The titles, both
of the plaintiff and defendant in this case, were dirived under grants from Virginia ; and the argument is,
that as in Virginia no equitable claims or rights antecedent to the grants. could be asserted' in a court.of

OF THE UNITED STATES.

l19

aw in an' ejectment, but were matters cogrfizable in "1818.equity qnly, that the rule must, -under the compact
'
betweermthe two states, apply to all the suits inthe courts
V..
in Tennessee, respecting the lands intluded in't]ose C' P el.
gwrants.
The general rule iih that remedies in respect to Teal
S
respect
Remedies
to real
'al
estates are tobe pursued according to the law of the property,, are
s situatea Nor) "foe :.tli
n ecou
o u to
a ccordrudgt
ng t o
-i
place where the estate
the lex-oci ri

a The foundations of this
ioctrine, and of"all the niher
prnciples concerning the ex
loci, are laid down by IHuberus, in his Pr lectimieg, with
that admirable force and precision which distinguish the
works of the writers who have
been formod in the school of
the Romas juxisconsults, and
which justify the eulogivni
pronounced upon that school
biy Leibnitz. "Fundamentum
universte hujus doctrinr dixi2nus ease, et tenemus, sabjectionem homium infra leges
cujusque territorii, quandiu
illic agunt, quoe facit, ut actus
ab initio validus aut nuilus,
alibi quoque valere aut non valere non nequeat. Sed hnc
ratio non convenitrebus immobilibus, quando ille spectantur,
non ut dependentes a libera
dispositione oujusque patrisfaiiia, verum quatenus certse
acts lega cujusque Reip. ubi

sitasunt, illis impresswreperiuntur, he note manent indelibiles in ista IRepIIl. ;quioquiA
aliarum Civitatum leges aut
privatorum dispositionessecul
,aut ontmra-statuant; nec enim
sine magna confusiene prvqJudicioque Reipubl. ubi sittesujt
res soli, Leges de illis late, dispositionibusistitmutaripoasent
Hine Frisius habens agros et
domos in pr6vincia Groningensi, non potest de illis testari,
quia Lege prohibitum est ibi
de bonis inimobilibus testari,
non valente JTare Fristdo adfi.
cere bona, quie partes alieni
territorii integrantes constituunt. Sed an hoc non obstatei
iluod anta diximus, si fateurn
sit Testamentumjure loci valiL
dum, id effectum habere etiam
in bonis alibi sitis, ubi de ilis
testari licet ? Non obstat; quia
legum diversitas in ilia specie
non afficit res soil, neque de
illis loquitur, sed ordinat actunui

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
was the intention
perceive any reason to suppose that it
the acts before us,
of thle legislature of either state, in
Robinson
in cases within the
to vary the application of the rule
V.
them
Campbell. compact. Those acts are satisfied by construing
acquirtitles
the
to
to give the same validity and effect
or would have,
had,
they
as
territory,
ed in the disputed
granted, leaving the
in the state by which. they were
to be regulated by the
remedies to enforce such titles
lexfori.
in the circuit. courts
The question tlen is, whether'
a merely equitable title can be
,IT-+,,"States,
1818.

441,

an
as a defence in
The doctrine set up
state
the
that
of the stte understood
courts of TenMessee,permnitting an equita- testandi; quo recte celebrable title to be
assetted in an to, Lex Reipubt, non vetat Il-aetion at law, lur aetum valere in immobili
aer
o)nly applies toumat
cases within bus, quatenus iullus character

action of ejectment. It is
courts of Tennessee have

the express

impressus
purview of the illis ipsis a lege loci
"

Tennessee.!

Ieditur aut inrninuitur. 1-Irc
observatio locuin etiam in con
tractibus haber; quibius 'in
Hollandia vonditw res soli
Frisici, modo iii Frisia prohibito, inet, ubi gestusest, valido, recte vendite intelliguntur; idemque in rebus non
quidem immobilibus, at solo
cohbrentibus; uti si frumenturn soli Frisici in Hollandia
t
secundum Jastas, ita dictas, si
venditum, non valet venditio
nee quidem in Hollandiasecun

daum earn jus dicetur, etki tale
frumentun ibi non sit vendi
prohibitum ; quia in Frisia interdicttr est; et solo coharet
ejusque pars est. Nee aliud
juris erit in succesionibus ab
intestato ; si defunctus sit Paterfamilias. cujus bona in diversi locis imperii sita surit,
quantum attinet od immobilia,
servatur jus loci, in quo situs
eoruun est; quoad mobilia, servatur jus, qud illic loci est,

.4
Bed quyrel See Unhd State
i'. Crosby,7 Craneh, 115

ubi testator h'abuitdomnicilium,
qua de r6, vide Sandium, lib.
4. dcis. tlit. VIII. def. 7."
Huberus, Prcwektiones, totn. 2.
lib. I tit. 0. De Conflictv Le-

gum. See .Erkne'sInstitutes Of
the Lawof Scotland, 10th ed.
309. Pothier, de la Presciption
207. Code Lapolun, art. 3.

,OF THE UNITED STATES.

Q21

1818.
decided that under their statutes, declaring an elder
oio
grant founded on a younger entry, to be void, tni pri- Rob~inson
V.
ority of entries is examinable at law; and that a junior
Campbell.
acan
in
prevail
shall
entry,
prior
a
on
founded
patent
'tion of ejectment against a senior patent founded on a
But this doctrine has never been extenjunior .entry.
4ded beyond the cases which have been construed
to be within the express purview of the statutes of Tennessee. The present case stands upon grants of Virginia, and is not within the-purview of the statutes of
Tenndssee; the titles have all their validity from the
laws of Virginia' and are confirmed by the stipulations
of the compact- Assuming, therefore, that in the case
of entries under the laws of Tennessee, the priarity of
such'entries is examinable at. law, this court do not
think that the doctrine applies to merely equitable
rights derived from other sources..
The remedies
There is a more general -iew of this subject, which in the courts
of the atUnited
By the laws of the United States
corndeserves consideration.
.
and
law
men
suits
all
of
cognizance
States, the circuit courts have
in equity, are
acto be, not
to the
and in equity, in cases
cording
•
'of a civil nature at common law,
'
which fall within the limits prescribed by those laws. pracice of
courts,
statesaccordaing
of the judiciary act of 1789, it is pro- but
By the 24th section
• *
prin.€the
to
Iv'here
except
states,
several
the
of
lesofcommon
vided, that the laws
Fawandequity
the constitution, tredties, or statutes of the United
be re- England. This
States, shall otherwise require or provide, shall
redoctrine, with
garded as rules of decision in trials at common law inIconciled
the courts of the United States, in cases where they ap- the decisions
of the courts

Tennessee,
ply. The act of May, 1792, confirms the modes of of
permitting an
proceeding then used in suits at common law in the equitable title
courts of the United States, and declares that the modes o be asserted
at
in an action
law.

§2
118.
Rio
v.
Campbell.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
6f proceeding in suits of equity, shall be "according to
the principles, rules, and usages which belong to courts
cornof equity,,as contra-distinguished fronm courts of
for
provided
been
have
may
mon law," except so far as
United
'by the act to establish the judicial courts of the
States. It is material to consider whether it was the
intention of Congress, by these provisions, to confine
the courts of the United States in their mode of administering 'relief to the same remedies, and those only,
of
with all their incidents, which existed in the courts
was
it
whether
words,
the respective states. In other
the
their intention to give the party relief at law, where
in
practice of the state courts would give it, and relief
equity only, when according to such practice, a plain,
adequate, and complete remedy could not be had at law.
exIn some states in the union, no court of chancery
those
ists to administer equitable relief. In some of
at
.states, courts of law recognise ard enforce in suits
court
a
which
rights
and
law, all the equitable claims
all reof equity would recognise and enforce; in others,
lief is denied and such equitable claims and rights
A conare to be considered as mere nullities at law.
practice
state
the
adopt
struction, therefore; that would
in a its extent, would at once extinguish, in such
acts
states, the exercise of equitabl6 jurisdiction. 'The
of Congress have distinguished between remedies at
common law and in equity, yet this construction would
efconfound them. The court, therefore think, that to
in
fectuate the purposes of the legislature,the remedies
common
the courts of the United States, are to be, at
of
practice
the
to
law or in equity, not according

OF THE UNITED STATES.
,fitp courts,.but according to the principles of common
1818.
lAW and equity, as distinguished and defined iiithat
country from which we derive ,our knowledge of those Robison
.
principles. Consistently with this constriution, it may Cfmpbe1L"
be admitted, that where by the statutes of a state, a title, which waild otherwise be deemed merely equitable,
is recognised as a legal title, or a title which would be
good at law, is under circumstances of an equitable nature declared by such statutes to be void, the rights of
the parties, in such case, may be as fully considered in
a suit at law in the courts of the United States, as they
would be in any state court.
In either view of this first point, the court is of opinion that the circuit'court decided right in rejecting the
evidence offered by the original defendant. It was matter proper for the cognisance of a court of equity, and
not admissible in a suit at law.
The next question is, whether the circuit court decided correctly in rejecting the deed of conveyance from
the plaintiff's lessor to Arthur L. Campbell, for'the land
in.controve-rsy made during the pendency of the suit.
The answdr that was given at the bar is deemed decisive; although an action of ejectment is founded in fic-.
tions, yet to certain purposes it is considered in the
same manner as if the whole proceedings were real; for
all the purposes of the suit the lease is to be deemed a
real possessory title. If it expire during the pendency
of the suit, the plaintiff cannot recover his term at law,
without procuring it to be enlarged by the court, and
canproceed only for antecedent damages. In the present case the lease is to be deemed as a good .subsisting

• 24

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT.

1818. 'lease, and the conveyance by the plaintiff's lessor durRobinson
ing the pendency of the suit could not operate upon his
'
y. ' reversionary interest, and, consequently, could not ex
Campbell. tinguish the prior lease. The existence of such a leape
is a fiction; but. it is upheld for the purposes of justice,
in
-nd there is no pretencethat it works any injustice
this case.
The last question is, whether the statute of limntanesse not aP-tion of Tennessee was a good bar to the action. It is
plicable to this
admitted, that it would be a good bai only upon the supe se.
''position that the lands in controversy were always
there is no
within the original limits of Tennessee; but
the states
of
such proof in the cause. The compact
an amwas
does not affirm it, and the present boundary
the.aicable adjustment by that compact. It cannot,
was
land
the
that
law,
of
fore, be affirmed by any court
Tennesof
within the' reach of the statute of limitations
statute could
see until after the compact of 1802. The
that the land
not begin to run until it was ascertained
of Tenwai within the jurisdictional limits of the state
nessee.
Ten
Statuteofoflimi
tations

with
The judgment of the circuit court is affirmed,
costs.a
a In Buller's Nisi Prius,

ducing an ancient lease for

110, it is laid down, that in 1000 yearswillnotbesufficient
prove posejectment, "if the defendant unless he likewisp
such leaqe
prove a title out of the lessor, session under
years." The
it is sufficient, although he within twenty

stated in Run.
have no title himself; but he same doctrine is
343.
Ejectmens,
on
nington
ought to prove a subsisting
titi out of the lessor, for pro- and the case of England v.

OF THt UNITED STATE9.
1818.;
tlade, 4 T. R, 61U. is relied fendant he is not entitled to
can
defendant
the
if
recover,
Robinson
on to support it. But this
v,. ,
in a third
case only shows, that the te- show a superior-title
nant may prove that the les- person, with whom the de- Campbell.
r's title has expired, and, fendant does not claim any
therefore,'fhat he ought not to privity.
It is the purposp of this note
turn hima out of possession.
It is unquestionable law,that to show, that the authorities
in ejectment "the plaintiff do not justify the doctrne to
cannot recover -but upon the, this extent; and if it be true
strength of his own title. le in any case, (which may be
cannot found his claim upon doubted,) it is liable to a great
the weakness of the defend- many excepiions, which desant's titlq; for possession gives troy its general applicability.
the defendant a right against Speaking upon this -subject
every man who cannot show Lord Mansfiel is reported to
Haldam v. have said, "there, -is another
a good title."
Harvey, 4 Burr. 2484. S. P. distinction to be taken,whether
lartin v. Troyonell. 5 T. 1. supposing a title superior to.
107. note. But this doctrine that of the lessor of the plainwas asserted in a case where tiff exists in a third person,
the plaintiff sought to recover who might recover the posupon a title which, she had session, it lies in thl mouth of
eqnreyed awayj to a third per- the defendant to say so., in anson; and nothing can be clear- swer to an ejectment brought
er than that the plaintiff can- against himself, by a party
not recover without showing a having a better title than his
subsisting title in himself. 'If own. I found this point setthe position in Buller's Nisi tled before I came into this
Prius were confined to cases court, tlhat the court never suf
of this sort, there could not be fers a norgagor to set up the
the slightest ground to ques- title of a third person against
tion its validity But it is his morgagee." Doev. Pegsuppo.ed to establish the doc- ge, I T. R: 758. note. The
trine, that if the plaintiff has a point as to a morgage,hqs'been
title which is not an indefeasz- long established. In Lindsey
ble possessory title, but is, in v. Lindsey, Bull. N. P. 110.
fact, better than that of the de- on an ejectmeiht by- a second
2
VoL. III.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT'
1818.

morgagee against the morga- not permnitted toset up prtlhk
the court would not suf- advantage of a defect in ther
Robinson fer the latter to giv in evf
lessor's title, or to show a
Campbell. dpnce the title of the first subsisting title in a third permorgagee in bar of the second, son to defeat the lessor's rightbecause he was barred by his Drxvbr v. Lawrence, 2 W. DBl
own act from averring that he 1259, 2 Salk. 447. Menhall
had nothing iii the landf at the v. Wright, 3 .Mass. Rep. 138.
time of the second, mortgage. 153. Jackson v. Reynolds,
And the principle of this de- I Caines' Rep. 444. Jackson
cision has been repeatedly re- v.Whitford, 2Caines'Rep.215.
cognised, both in the Er- Jackson v. Vosburgh, 7 Johns.
glish and American courts. Rep. 186. Brant v. LiverDoe v. Pegge, I T. R. 753. more,10 Johns. Rep. 358. So
note. Doe Y. Staple, 2 T. R.' a person who enters into pos684. Lade v. Holford, 3 Burr. spssion under another, and
1416. Newhall v. Wright, 8 acknowledged his title, cannot
Mass. Rep. 138.153. Jackson set up an outstanding title in a.
v. Dubois, 4 Johns. Rep,. 216. third person. Jackson v.StewIndeed, the mortgagor, not- art, 6 Johns. Rep. 34. Jackwithstanding the mortgage, is son v. De Waits, TJohns.Rep.
row deemed seised, and the 157. Jqckson v. Hinman, 10t
legar owner of the land, os to Johns. Rep. 292.
Doe'v.
all persons except the mortga- Clarke, 14 Bas. 488. Nor"
gee, and those claiming under can a person claiming the
him, and he may maifitain an land'pnder the tenant set up
ejectment or real action upon an outstanding title against
such seisin. Hitchcock y. the landlord. Jackson v. GraHarrington, 6 Johns. R. 290. ham, 3 Caines' Rep 188; nor
Segwick Y. Hallenbach, 7 against a purchaser under an
Johns. Rep. 376. Collins v. execution against the landlord
Torry, 7 John '. Rep. 277. or the tenant. Jackson v.
Willington v. Gale, 7 Mass. Graman, 5 Caines' Rtp. 188.'
Rep. 138. Porter v. Millet, 9 Jackson v. Bush, 10 Johns.
,Mass. Rep. 101.. - And upon, Rep. 223. And a person who
the same prinimple, in an has entered by permission of
ejectment by the lessor against one tenant in common cannot
his own lessee, the latter is after a partition made, set up
Sgor,

YF THE UNITED STATES.
1818.
*-n adverse title in bar Of an privity of estate or interest,
,eeetment by the tenant in and who pretend to none, afcommon, to whose share the fected'by the sale, shall 'not be Robinson
v
premises had fallen. Smith entitled to set up the title of CampbOll.
:v. Burtis, 9 Johns. Rep. 174. the heirs, or to call on the exFisher v. .Creel, 13 Johns. ecutor or administrator for
Rep. 116. And whereaper. strict proof of the regularity
son in possession of land cove- of all his proceedings in the
nants with another to pay him sale. Knox v. Jenks,'7 Mass.
for the land, the cavenantee is Rep. 488. And a stranger b3.
estopped from setting up an a mortgage is not permitted to
outstanding title to bar an set it up to -defeat u legal title
ejectment by his covenantor, in the plaintiff. Collins'v. Torunless he shows fraud pr impo- • ray, 7' Johns. Rap. 278. Jacksition in the agreement. son v. Piait, 10 Johns. Rep.
Jackson v. Ayres, 14 Jolns. 381.
Thes6 cases clearly sho*
Rep. 2!24. Lord Eldon has
declared, that with regard to thatthe docrrine has been very
mortgagers and incdmbrancers much narrowed down. It reIf they do not get in a term that mains to corsider whether the
is outstanding, but satisfied, doctrine has ever been.,estabin some sense, either by taking lished,. that a mere superior
-an assignment making the outstanding title in a third
trustee a party to the instru- person, with whom the defenment, or taking possession of" dant has no privity, can be
the deed creating the term, given in evidence in an ejectthat term .cannot be used 6 meit, to defeat a possessory
protect them against any per- title in the plaintiff, which is
son having mesne" charges or superior to that of the defendintumbrances. Maundrell v.' ani. It is manifest, that at
14aundrell, 10 Ves. 246. 271. the time when Lord Mansfield
See Peake's BRid. 341. 3d ed. delivered his opinion in Doe v.
And in cases where land has" Pegge, (1 T.1. 758. note,) he
been sold by executors or ad- did not consider any such docministrators under a legal au- trine as established, for he conthority to sell, it has been set- fines his opinidn to the mere
tled, that strangers to the title, case of a mortgagee as ag'ainst
those who have no estate or his mortgagor, although. he

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
states the question in the 6 M11ass. Rep., 418. Everenden
terms ; and if the de- v. Beaumont, 7 31ass. Rep.
Sbroadest
cisions had then gone the 76. Williams v. Jackson, 5
.obison
,
V.
C$mphell, whole length, he would 'cer- Johns. Rep. 409. Phelps v.
tainly have so stated. Nor is Sage,'2 Day's Rep. 151. So a
there any subsequent case in tenant may sbow that the title
Englandin which the point of his landlord has expired.
has been decided. The case England v. Slade, 4 T. R.
of Doe v. Reade, S East, 353. 682. So in an ejectmentby
turned upon the circumstance a cestvy qu trust the tenant
that the defendant, being law- may setup in his defence the
'fully in possession, might de- legal oulstaxiding title in the
fend 'himself upon his title, trustee. Doev. Staples,2 T.R.
though twenty years had run 68-1. For in all these cascs
against him before he took the evidence shows that the
possession, the plainti' r in plaintiff has no subsisting pos.
ejeetment not claiming under sessory title at law, and therethe prior adverse' possession ; fore, he ought not to be perandthe case of Goodtitle v. mitted to disturb the tenant's
Balwin, I I East. 488. turned possession. The general role
.upon the distimntion, that the is, that possession constitutes
premises were drown .lands, a sufficient title against every
which by statute could not be person not having a better titenant
granted, and that the pos- tle ; and therefore the
naked
mere
his
upon
stand
may
sessidn of the plaintiff and
title is
better
a
until
possession
.defendant was to be presumed
melior
oequalijure
"In
shown.
by the license of the crown,
he
Undoubtedly the plaintiff est conditio possidentis;
lands,
of
possession
hath
that
niust show that he has a good
.possessory title; and, therefore though it be by disseisin, hath a
against
if the defendant shows that he right against allmen but
.
Doa.
has conveyed the land, unless, him that hath right."
and
26.
Abr.
the conveyance was void by Stud. 9. 3 Shep
reason of a prior disseisin, the the ruleof the civil law is the
same. Non possesserio incumplaintiff cannot recover.
neqessitas probandi possesbit
Gould v. Newman, 6 "Mass.
adse pertinere, Cod.iib.
siones
Rep. 239. Wolcott v. Knight
1018.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
4 cited 2 Bro. Afdm. 4. Civ.
Law, 371. note. And possesssion, although it be 'merely a
naked'possession, or acquired
by wrong, as by disseisen, is
also a title upon which a recovery can.be had. '.For as
Blackstone justly observes, "in
the mean time, till some 'act
be done by the rightful owner
to devest the possession and
assert fis title, such actual
potsessidn is prima facie cv-,
idence of a legal title in the.
possession; and it may, by
tength of time aud negligence
of him who hath the right, by
(legrees ripen into a perfect
and indefeasible title:"2 BZ.
Com. 196. So Jenkins, in his
Centuries of Reports, (42.)
states that the first possession
without any other title, serves
in an assize for land. In Bateman v. Allen, Cro. Eliz. 437,it
was held that the plaintiff was
entitled to recover in ejectment
where it waz found by special
verdict that the defendant had
not the first possession, nor entered under title, but upon the
plaintiff's possession. And in
Allen v.'Rivington, 2 Saun. R.
111, where, upon a special
verdict In ejectment, it appeared that the plaintiff had a priority ofpossession, and no title
was found for the defendant,

1818.
Saunders says. the matter in
law, wag never argued, for the' Rb
v.
priority of possession alone
gives a good title to the lessor Campbell.
of the plaintiff against the de- -.
fendant, and all the world, exceptihg against the rightfl
owner. And in a late case, it
was held, that mere prior occupancy of land, however recent, gives a goocl title to the
occupier, whereupon he may
,recover, as plaintiff, against all
the world, except such as can
prove an older and better title
in themselves: Catteris v.
Cooper, 4 Taunt. 547. See
also, 8 East. 33. And this
doctrine has been frequently
recognized in -the American
courts. Jackson v. Hazen, 2
Johns. Rep. f22. Jackson v.
Harder, 4 John8. Rep. 202.

Khe last case, 4 Johns. Rep.
202. goes farther and decides
that a mere intruder upon
lands shall not be permitted to
protect his intrusion in a suit
by the person upon whom he
lias intruded, by setting up an
outstanding, title .in a stranger.'
And in Smith v. Lorillard, 10
Johns. Rep. 338. all the authorities were reviewed, and it
was held that it is not necessary fr the plaintiffin eject"ment to show, in every case, a
possession of twenty years, or

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1818.
%"'
Robinson
v.
Campbell.

a paper title ; that a possession* dant who has no privity with
for a less period will form a 'that.title, to defeat a-title in the
presumption of title sufficient plaintiff which is yet superior to
to put the tenant upon his de- thatunder which the defendant
fence ; and that a prior posses- holds the land. Blackstone puts
sion short of twenty years, un- a case in poinf: "If tenant in
der a claim, or .assertion of tail enfeoffs A. in fee simple
right, will prevail over a sub- and dies, and B. disseizes A.,
sequent possession of less than nomB.will have the possession,
20 years, when no other evi-, A. the right or possession, and
dence of title appears on either the issue in tail the right of
side. Inrespeetto rel ac- property. A. may recover the
tions, it is said by Chief Justice possession against B. and afterParsons, that under the gene- wards the issue in tail may
ral issue-the defendant can'hot evict A., and unite in bimsblf
give in evidence a title under the possession, the right of
which he does not claim,unless possession, and also the right
itbe to rebut the demandant's of property." 2 Bl. Com.
evidence :ofseisin; but that he 199.. Here B. is an intruder,
may 1lead in bar a conveyance and, therefore, comes within
bythe, demandant to a third the reach of the case of Jackperson, under whom he does son v. Harder, 4 Johns. Rep.
not claim ; for iftenant have no' 202. But if B. had conveyed
right, yet if the demandat to C., and then A., had
haVe no right, he cannot, in brought an ejectment against
law, draw into qcestion the C., could the latter have set up
tenant's seisin, whether acqui- the title of the issue in tail,
red by right or 'by wrong. with which he had no privity
Wolcott v. Knight, 6 llfass. although that were a good subRep. 418. Gould v. Mew-' sisting superior title to defeat
man, 6 Mass. Rcp. 239.
the recovery of A.? It becomes
It is remarkable that in none not the, annotator to express
of . the foregoing 6ases the any opinion on this point ; his
pointis stated to have been only object, is to bring the auever decided upon the naked thorities in review before the
questioi whether a better sub- learned reader, Rb d tosuggest
sisting title in a third person can 'that it may bq'considated as
be givenin evidence by a defen, subjebt to judicial doubt..

