01- THE UNITED STATES.
'1818.
(INSTANCE COURT.),

The NEw-YoiK-Troup., Claimant.
LUbel under the non-importation acts.

repelled.

The,
New-York.

Alleged excuse of distress

Condemnation pronounc?.

Tars cause was argued by Mr. D. B. Ogdqnz, for the Feb. 5bt.
appellant and claimant, and by Mr. AIopkinson and Mr.
Baldwin, for the United Stateaa"
a The latter counsel cited tion. At the same time, this
the Eleanor, Edwards, 159, presumption maybe rebutted;
160. In this case. Sir'William but it lies on the party to assign
Scott observes, that "4raland the other cause, and if the'
irresistible distress mutbe at

all times a sufficient passport
for human beings under any
such application of human laws
But if a party is a false mendicant, if he brings into a port a'
ship or cargo,under a pretence
which does not exist, the holding out of such' a false cause
fixes him* with a fraudulent
purpose. If lie did not come
,in for the only purpose which
the law tolerates, he has really
come in for one which it prohibits, that of carryipg on an
interdicted comrerce in whole
or in part. It is, I presume,
an universal rule,that thermere
coming into port, though without breaking bulk, is prima
Jhcie evidence of an importa-

cause assigned turns out to be
false, the first presumption necessarily takes place, and- the
fraudulent importation is fastened down upon him. The
court put ihe question to the
counsel, whefher it was meant
to be argued, that the bringing
a cargo into an interdicted port
under a false prdtence, -was
not a fraudulent importation,
and it has not been denied that
it is to be so considered."
"Upon the fact *of importation, therefore, there can be
no doubt; and,, consequently,
the great point by which the
case is reduced, is the distress
which is alleged to hav6 occasioned it. Now, it must b an
urgeftt distress ; it must be

CBSES IN THE SUPREME COURT.
£818.

-Mr.Justice

LIVINGSToN delivered the opinion of the

court.
The
This is an appeal from the circuit court for the SouthNew-York.
Feb. 10th. ern District of New-York.
This ship was libelled for taking on board, at the
Island of Jamaica,, vith the knovledge of the master,
51 puncheons of rum, 23 barrels,,of limex, and 20
barrels of pimento, with intention to import the same
into the United States,, contrary to the provisions of
an act of Congress interdicting commercial intercourse between Great Britain and the United States,
something of grave necessity;
scLh as is spoken of in our
hooks, where a ship is' said to
b'e driven in by stress of weather. It is not sufficient to say
it was done to avoid a little bad
weather, or in consequence of
foul winds; the danger must
be such as to cause apprehension in the mind of 'ad honest
and firm man. I do not mean
to say that there must he an,
actual physical necessity existing at the moment; a moral
necessity would justify the act;
where, for instance, the ship
had sustained previous damage
so as to render it dangerous tothe lives of the persons on
board to prosecute the voyage:
Such a case,thoilgh there might
be no existing storm, Would be
viewed with tenderness ; but

there muit be at least a moral
necessity. Thenagainwhere
the party justifies the act upon
the plea of distress, it must not
be a distress which he has created himself, by putting on
board an insufcient quantity of
water or of provisionp for such
a voyage ; for there the distress is only a part of the mechanism of the fraud, and cannot be set up in excse for it;
and in the next place, the distress must be proved by the
claiwantinu clear and satisfactory manner. It is evidence
which comps from himselfand
from persons subject to his
power,.and 'probably involved
in the fraud, if any fi'audthere
be, -and is, therefore, liable to
he rigidly examined."

OF THE UNITED STATES.
pasted the
led'for an
tion of the
. A: claim

61

1st of.March, 1809, and the cargo was libel,
1818.
importation into the United States, in violaThe
provisions of the same law.
New-York.
was interposed by John Troup, of the city
of New-York, merchant, which denies the allegation
of the libel, as to the intention with which the articles
mentioned in the libel were put on board at Jamaica;
and as to the importation, he states, that on or about
the 6th -of October, 1811, the said ship, with the said
cargo on board, being on the high seas on the American coast about five leagues 'distant from land, and having lost .her rudder, and being otherwise disabled, was,
by stress of weather, compelled to put into the port of
New York, contrary to the will and, design of the master, and against the express orders of the claimant, as
owner thereof, communicated to the said master before
his arrival.
On board the vessel were two manifests of the cargo, both of which stated the cdrgo to have been laden
on board at Montego bay, in Jamaica; but one of
them declared her destination to be, Amelia Island,
and the other New-York. The latter was delivered
to an officer of the customs, and a ceitificate by him
endorsed thereon, stating that fact, dated the, 14th
October, 1811.
The other manifest was exhibited
at the custom.house in New-York, on the 25th October, 1811, at which time the master took the oath
usual on such occasions, stating that the said manifest contained a true account of all the goods on
board, and that there were not any goods on board, the
importation of which into the United States, was prohibited ly law.

62

-CASES

IN THE SUPREME COTJRT

John Davison, the master, deposed, that ne was with
1818."
The
the said ship bt Jamaika, ,in August, 1811. That his
T
New-York. orders from the claimant were not to take on board
at Jamaica any West India produce for the United
That the consignee of the said ship, the
States.
N7orthern Liberties, (evidently a mistake for the NewYork,) insisted upon it that he should take a cargo
of West-India produce on board, stating it, as his opinion, that the non-intercpurse law would probably be
repealed before he could arrive at New-York, and
'that, at any rate, he could stand off and, on Sandy
Hook until he should receive the orders of lis owner
how to proceed. That he was thus "19ducedto take
the said cargo on board, with which he sailed with orders from the consignee,' and with intention to obey
them, not to attempt to come into the port of NewYork un'less he received from the owner directions off
Sandy Hook so to do; that on the 6th of -October, in
the same year, while on the voyage from Jamaica,
they had a severe gale of wind from the south-west,
varying to the southward and eastward, accompanied
with a very heavy' sea, which continued nearly twenty hours, ir the course of which they split the foresail and- carried away the rudder. That on the 11th
day of October, they made sbundings about'40 miles
to the southward of Sandy Hook, where 'he received
contents
a letter from the ownerby a 'pilot-boat, the
them
told
and
of which he communicated to the crew,
farther
he shodld wait off the Hook until he received
the
that
declared
they
orders fkom" the owner; but
reto
unsafe
was
rudder was in such a state that it
the
main in her at sea, and that they would leave

(W THE UNITED STATES.

63

ship in the 'ilot boat unless he would bring her into '818
port. That, in his opinibn, it would have been dan- gerous and very unsafe to continue at sea with the Nw-Yofk.
said slip in the condition in which the rudder then was,
and he, therefore, consepted"to bring. her into New.
York, believing that it was necessary to do so for the
preservation of the cargo and the lives of the people
on bbard; that he was towbd into New-York by "apilot-boat, as the pilot would not take 6harge of the ship
unless she was towed..
The letter of the owner, referred to in the. master's
testim.ony, is dated in New-York,,the third of. October,
1811, and is addressed to him as follows
"Not knowing if you ha 'e rum in, I take this precaution by every boat; if you have rum, you are to
stand off immediately at least four leagues, and keep
your ship in a's
good a situation as you can,, either for
bad weather or to come in if ordered ; youmust get the
pilot to bring up all the letters for me, &c. also, a letter from yourself, stating .tlhe state of your' ship, provisions, &c ,and bring them to town as soon as possible ;
give me your opinion of-your crew, if you think they
can be depended on if wefind itnecessary to alter our
port of departure. If yni have rum in, I-expect the
ship must go to Amelia Islandi, or some other port, as
they seize all that comes here.- You may expect to
see oi hear from me in a' day or two after your being
off, you keeping the'Highlands N. W. of you I think
will be a good birth. If you are within- thred leagues
of the land you are liable to seizure by any armed vessel 1 18
On the 18th of Octob~er, 1811, a survey .was made'

64

OASES IN THE SUPREME C6URT

of the New-York, by the board of wardens, which
stated the rudaer gpnt i the stern post and counter
New-YorlI. plank injured, the oakum worked out, tie main crp
split and settled, fore-topsailyards sprung, pallpits bro,ken ; fore-topsail sheet bill, started and broken. This
injury was stated by the master to-the wardens to havE
happened in a gale, in lat. 270 30""N. and long. 80 WThe wardens gave it as their opinion, that the said vessel ought to be unloaded andhove put to repair her
damages before she could proceed to sea in safe
1818,

'ty.
On the 7th of November, of the same year, after the
New.York was unloaded, the wardens again, surveyed
her, and reported, the middle rudder brace broken, the
crown of the lower brace gone. Some of the sheathing fore a'nd aft gone, the rudder badly chafed, and sc,
much injured, as not to be fit to be repaired.
On this evidence, the district court pronounced a
decree of restitution. From this sentence the United
States appealed to the circuit court, held for the southern district of New-York, in the gecond circuit, where
that sentence was reversed. From this last decree,
an appeal is made to this court, whose duty it now is
to inquire which of these sentences is correct.
If the articles in question were taken on board with
the intention of importing the same into the United
States, and with th6 owners or master's knowledge, a
forfeiture of the vessel must be the consequence,
whethir she Were forced in by stress of weather or
not; and even if no such intention existed at the time
of loading at Jamaica, the tame consequence will at-

OF THE UNITED STATES.
tach to the goods, if it shall appear that the coming in 1818.
of the vessel was voluntary on the part of the masT'e
ter
New-York.
The claimant has first endeavoured to clear the trans.'
action of all illegality in its inception, and thinks he
has offered testimony sufficient to satisfy the court that
there was no intention at the time of loading at TJamaica, to import the cargo into the United States.
When an act takes place, which in itself, and unexplained, is a violation of law, and the inducements
to such infraction are great, it will not be thought un
reasonable in a court,' to expect from a -party who
seeks relief against its consequences, the most satisfactory proofs of innocence, especially, as such proof will
generally be within his reach. If theni any papers,
which in the course of sich a transaction must have
existed, are not produced, or if any others which come
to light, do not correspond with the master's relation ;
and especially, if all the witnesses who fare in the power, and many of them in the interest, and under the influence of the party, are omitted to be examined, when,
it is impossible that they should not be intimately .acquainted with the most material circumstances ; and
instead of thisi the chief, if not only reliance of the
claimant, is placed on the evidence of a party, who, if
the allegations "of the libel be true, is himself liable, to
a vexy heavy penalty; when such a case occurs, a
court must be expected to look at the proofs before it,
with more than ordinary suspicion and distrust.
'In this case, there was an importation vhich, prima
facie, was against law, and was in the -ame degree
VOL. II.
10

,$6

&ASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

evidence of an original intention to import; the buithen
then, of showing the absence of such an intention, was
The
New-York. thrown upon and assumed by the claimant. In doing
this, he satisfie;s himself with the examination of the
master ; who states, that he had orders from his owner, not to take on board at Jamaica any W,st India produce for the Unite~d States. What is become of these
orders ? Does a master sail on a foreign voyage with
verbal instructions only? This is, not the common
course of business. Instructions to a makter of a vessel are generally in writing; and foi.the owners greater security, there is, always left with him, a
c'opy certified or acknowledged by the former.
If so, why are they not produced? They would
speak for- themselves,- and be entitled to more
credit than the declarations of a person so deeply interested to misrepresent the transaction, as. this witness is. The court, therefore, might well throw out
of the case the little that is said of these instruction,
so long as they are not produced ; and it is not pretended that they were not reduced to writing, or if
they were, that they are lost ; which, indeed, is not a
very supposable event, if the ordinary precautions- on
this occasion have been observed. But notwithstanding these very positive orders, the master, in direct violation of them, and at the hazard of the most serious
consequences to himself, takes on board a' cargo expressly prohibited by his owner, in 'compliance with
the directions and opinion of a consignee, whose
name is also withheld, and who does not appear to,
have had any right to interfere in this way. So
great a responsibility would have attached upon such
1IS.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
18M,
a palpable breach of orders, that it is a good reason for
T
doubting whether they ever existed. Nor is this part - The
of the master's testimony verified by the claim, which New-Yo&"
-observes a profound silence in relation to these or .any
other orders, that may have been given. If tio written instructions were delivered to the inaster, which
we are at-liberty to believe, as none -re produced, -a
better mode could hardly, have been -devised to avoid
detection., It has'been said in argument, that the intention of the master's coming to the United States
was-altogether contingent, and depended on a repeal.
-ofthe non-intercourse act, and that, he, accordingly,
did not mean to come in if that act were still in force.
But how does this appear? Nothing of the kind is
stated in his deposition ; on .the, contrary, his -coming
in, according to his own account, depended not on the
repeal of this law, but on the orders of his owner;he came, he says, on this coast, with intention to obey,
the orders of the consignee, not to attempt to con~e
into port unless he received orders from the owner,
off S~ndy Hook, so to do. If, therefore, he had found
those laws yet in force, which he probably had heard
was the case, soon after his coming on the American
coast, and long before he fell in with the pilot boat
-which carried down the letter of his owner, he still
intended to have come in, if his owner had ordered
him so to do. His intention, therefore, as taken from
his own relation, is "not altogether of that innocent"
nature which it has been represented to be. When the
-vessel siled from Jamaica, does not exactly appear;
all we know from the master's account is, that she
was there in August, and met with a gale on the 6th

68

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
l818.

of October following.

It i probable, however, fromr

Then theseiates, that she hadh eeii long enongh at sea to
New-York. meet with -one orar&e vessels from the United States,
-from iwhich iiffofinaiioh' might -have been received
of'th'i'C act6i1t "siat& of -things in this country in
relatidh to this, aw. e W their any -sv&h vessel were
metwith, vd know not; but _iiiJht have known if
any of the crew'6r of {he Passengers had been examined, or the'log-book prdduced., If such information were received oi the coast, and the master of
the New-York had pbrsisted afterwards in keeping
the sea until he could hearfrom his owner, it would
amount to strong proof of an 'original design to come
here. 'the opinion which -has already been intimated on this part of the case, which 'depends on the intention with which the cargo was loaded, will be
much strengthened by proceeding 6o consider the plea
of necessity on which the 'coming in ois justified, and
the facts relied on, in support of this plea. The newhichwilex-cessity must be irger-.t, and' proceed from such a
ofthuseavlaws of s t a t

of things as may be supposed to produce on,
trade, must bethe mind of a skilful mariner, a vell grounded ap"ap
urgent, and
of the loss of.. vessel and cargo, or of the
from
proceed
..
of prehension
such a state
things asmaolives of the crew-. It is not every injury that may be
be supose received in a storm, as the splitting of a sail, the
tprouce
onthe mind ofspringingof a yard, or a-trifling leak, which will ex,a sfilful marrinor, a well
fear cuse the violation of the laws of trade. Such accigrounded
of the loss of dents happen in every voyage; and' the commere of
contry could be subject to *any regulations, if
veselandearsbcrutn
go, or of theno
lives of the they might be avodied by the setting up of such trivZ
crew.
ial acc;dents ac these. It ought also to be very apparent, that the injury, whatever it. may be, ha's not

OF THE UNITED STATES.

69

been in any degree produced, as was too often the 1818.
case, (luring the restrictive system, by the agency of
The
the master, and som6 Of the6 crew': Does then the New-York..
testimony in this case, carry with it that 'full conviction of the vis major which ought to be made out to
avoid the effects of an illicit importation ? It will not
be right -of proper for the court, in considering this
part of the case, to devest itself of those suspicions
which were so strongly excited in the first stage of
this transaction, for if it were not very clearly made
out that the lading of these goods on board was innocent, it will be some excuse for the incredulity
which the court may discover respecting the tale of
subsequent distress. On this point, also, the claimant is satisfied with the testimony of the master. Not
a single mariner, not one of the passengers, although
several were on board, is brought forward in support
of his relation. Of -the wardens' survey, nbtice will
preseftly be taken. Now, admitting the master's story
to be true, with those qualifications, however, which
ire inevitable, he has made out as weak a case of
necessity as was ever offered to a curot, in the many
instances of this kind which occurred during the existence of the restTictive system. A gale of less than
twenty hours continuance was 'all the bad weather
that Was encountered, in which it is said the rudder
was carried away and the foresail split; the rudder
pay have been injured, but it could not have been carried away, if it he true, as from the master's own account must have been th case, that the vessel after
this accident made at least one thousand ,miles in the
course of the first five days, immediately after. * But

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
it is said that is no evidence as to the place where the
~ accidhnt; happened. Of this fact the survey producThe
NewYork. ced by the - claimant himself is conclusive. It was
taken from the mouth of the captain himself, mnd if
he or the wardens committed a mistake in this impor-'
tant particular, why was it not corrected by an examioation of the master, or a production of the log-book ?
Nor has it escaped the attention of the court, that if
the New-York were disabled 'in lat. 27, 30 north,
long. 80 west, she might have reached- Amelia Island,
her pretended poit of destination; with much more
ease, and in much less time than she eraployed in
sailing more than ten degrees to the north, and taking
her station off Sandy Hook; for she was, ori the 6th
df October, mu ,h nearer to that island, and the wind
was'as fair as could be desired to carry her there.
The plea of distress, therefore, is contradicted by a
fact which could not have existed,,. if it? had been as
great as is now pretended -'nor can it be believed, if
any great danger had been produced by the gale of
the 6th of October, that either the crew or the passengers would have submitted, not only to come so
many degrees to the north, 'but continue hovering on
the coast until the owner could be heard from. No
.leak appears to have been the consequence of the
storm, no mrast was lost, nor any part of the cargo
thrown overboard; and if she steered and sailed as
well as it seems she did, without a rudder, even a loss
so veryt essential and serious to other vessels, must
be allowed to have worked little or no injury whatever in this ase. To the subsequent surveys by the
1818.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

'

:1

wardens of the port, as far as they exhibit the condi- 181*.
lion of the New York; but little importance is to be
attached. It'appears to have been an ex parte pro-New.yorL,
ceeding, and if all the injuries which they describe existed, as-they no doubt.did, it is not certain Whether
they were produced by the gale spoken of, or by any
other accident at sea, or by the act of the master himself; and, at any rate, their recommending repairs before she .'vent to sea again was very natural, the vessel being then in p6rt; but is no proof at all that she
might not as well, and better, have gone to Amelia
Islands as to have come to that port. The letter to
the master, which .has been produced, does not place
in i very fair light the pretensions of the claimant.
However unpleasant the task, thecourt is constrain'ed
to make some remarks on it. I seems agreed that it
is but little calculated to lull ihe suspicions which other parts of this case'have excited. The interpretatio.n
resorted 'to by the claimant is at variance with the
only appropriate sense of the terms -which are used,
and with the most manifest intentions of the writer.'
By changing the Port of departure, nothing else could
have'been intended than to legalize the voyage by
the crew swearirig that the New-York had sailedfrom some West-India possession, not under the do-,.
minion of Great Britain. This sense of the letter,
which seems inevitable, .is but little favourable to the
character of the claimant,- or to the integritj of the
transaction. Nor .should iftbe forgotten, that the reaster'dloes not decide upon coming in until-this lettdr is
received; whereas, if his situation were as perilous as
he now repreieuts it, he could not; and would not

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1818.

have waited or orderS. "It is unnecessary to rely
much on the two manifests ;- although one of them,
The
NIew-Yrk. bearing on its race a destination for New-York, is
certainly much at variance with the pretended contingent destination of this vessel. The oath which
the master made at the custom-house,'that no goods
were on board of the New-York, the imporiation of
which was prohibited by law, was not only false, but
is an evidence of very great incaution on his part ; for
if the collector would administer the oath in no other
form, it was no reason -,hatever for his attesting to
a fact, the falsity of which was apparent on le very
manifest wlhich was attached to the oath.
The alleged opposition of the crew to' wait for
fuither orders, and their threats to come up in the
pilot-boat, have not been overlooked. This allega.tion depends altogether on the credit due to the master, and is a circumstance not very probable in itself.
No pilot , in the Lhen condition of the New-York,
could havebeen so ignorant, and so regardless of his
,duty, as to take from her, without the master's consent, an.y part, much less the whole, of her crew. If
the threat, therefore, were really made, the master
ought not to have been alarrned at it, and probably
would- have treated it with contempt, if it had not
been suggested by himself, or had not suited his then
purpose; at any rate, if by remaining longer at sea
than he ought to have done, or by hovering on the
coast in expectation of orders from his owners, after
having received so many injuries on the 6th of October, and additional dafiger were produced, or wellgrounded apprehensions and opposition on the part
'

OF THE UNITED STATES.
of the drew, he .would not without great reluctance

IBI8
on the part of the court, be permitted to draw any very
The
great acivantage from a circumstance which his owzi New-York.
imprudence, if not his own fault, occasioned. The
towing ot the New-York into port by a pilot boat, is
supposed to be a circumstance which must have proceeded from her disabled condition.
"Thisdoes not
follow. It may have liroceeded, from the request
of her master; for it* can hardly be believed that
a vessel that had behaved so well after the gale
of the 6th October, and which is not stated to have
met wO.h any injury from subsequent causes, should,
the moment it was necessary to take a pilot on
board, be so ungovrhable as to require towing into
port. If this were really tije case, it is a matter of
some surprise, that the claimant should not have recourse to the pilot himself to establish the fact, and the
reason of it.
Notwithstanding the untoward circumstances, whiclt
have already been taken notice of, and the temptations
which existed to commit violations of, the restrictive
laws, which it is known were great, and-led to frequent
infractions of them, the court is asked to icquit this
property, without producing the letter of ifistructions
to the master, or the orders to the consignee in Jamaica, where 'it is alleged there was one,. although
his name is not given, or any bill of lading, or invoice, or log-book, and in the face of two manifests,
the one purporting o' destination contrary to law. To'
expect anacquittal, in a case involved in so much mystery/ it is not too much to say, that the uncommon circumstances attending it should have been explained
VOL. III.
11

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
and accounted for in the most satisfactory manner
But when for this explanation, the court is referred to
The
New-York. the unsupported testimony of the master, who is himself
the particeps criminis, if any offence have been com,mitted, and -vbo stands convicted on the papers before us, of a palpable deviation from truth, and whose
account, if true, would have induced him ard his crew
to direct their course to Amelia Island, inslead of encountering a more northern latitude, we must believe
that the mate and others, who might have proved the
fact of distress, if real, beyond all doubt, were not
produced, not from mere negligence or inattention, but
from a conviction that they would afford no sanction
It is now near eighteen
to the master's relation.
months since the decree of the circuit court was pronounced, in which an intimation was given, that farther
testimony would be admitted here, and yet none has
1818.

been produced.
, It is the opinion, threefore, of a majority of the
judges, that the sintence of the court he affirmed, with
costs.
Mr. Justice JoHNsoN. This is a Iibel against the
cargo of the ship New-York. The vessel herself was
libelled for lading a cargo with intent to violate the
laws of the United States; but the cargo in this case
is libelled as forfeited, for having been imported into
the city of New-York contrary to law. The intent
-with which it was laden on board becomes immaterial as. to the cargo, except so far as it might
operate to cast a shade of suspicion over the act of
coming into port. The defence set up- is, that the

OF THE UNITED STATES.
ship sailed with the alternative destination to go into
1818.
New-York if legal, and if not, to bear away-for Ame- "
The
lia Island. That she was ordered to call off the portNew.york
of New-irork for information; and in her voyage
thither she encountered a storm, from which she su3tained such damages as to oblige her to put into NewYork for the safety'of the lives of the passengers and,
crew. That a vessel under such circumstances has a
right to call off a port for information has been de.
cided in various cases; and it has, also, been decided,
and is not ,low questioned, that if in the prosecution
of that voyage, she sustains such damage as renders it
unsafe to keep the sea, she might innocently enter
the ports of the Tnited States to repair, and resume her'
voyage. The laws of the United States make provision in such ,cases f6r securing the cargo to prevent an
evasion efour trade-laws.
There are, then, but two questions in the case: 1st
Whether her actual state of distress was such as to make
it unsafe for her to keep the seas? 2d.- Whether that
state of distress was the effect of design or accident?
Admitting that the greatest frauds that can be imagined
had been proven to have been in contemplation, yet
as the libel does not' charge a lading with intent to
import into the United States, it is immaterial to this de-

cision to inquire what "was intefided, if it be'made
to appear that the distress, was real, and not pretended or fictitious. Now, as far as I can judge, the facts
in this case are such as* leave nothing for the mind to
halt upon. The distress was obvious 'to the senses,
and the nature of it such as could not have been pro.
duced by the ingenuity of man. Without dwelling

CESES IN THE SUPREME COURT.

76

upon less important larticulars, it appears, from the
surveys, ,that the fore-topsail yards were sprung ; the
carried away,
New-York. main cap split and settled; and the rudder
or, in the words of the survey, gone; and the sternpost,'after sheathing, and cbunterplank much chafed.
These words car-ried away and gone, mean, in nautical language, wholly disabled o xendered useless.
And that puch was the 'state of the rudder is evident
from the contents of the surveys. For, when the vessel was hove keel out, it appeared that the middle rudder
brace was broken, and the crown of the lower brace
gone; so that it is evident the rudder must have
swung in the chains. And that this was the case
appears from sev'eral particulars, also gethered from
the surveys: 1st. The impossibility, on sny other
supposition, to believe, that the surveyors would on
the first survey, before the .vessel was hove-down,
report the rudder gone. 2d. The chafed state of the
rudder and-stern post, could only have been produced
by the' action of the ruddef against the stern-post,
when . forced to and fro by the waves, and must have
occurred at sea. And, lastly, the same cause naturalli produced the injury reported to have been done
to her counter-plank andfter sheathing. These injuries, I repeat, could not have been done by the
hand of man, especially those' gustained under water;
and although I see neither frafid nor falsehood in the
case, yet I care not though every word of the testimony,' besides, be false:' that falsehood could neither
have produced these injuries, nor repaired them; and
the evidence is sufficient to show that the safety of
1819,
The
T

OF THE'UNITED STATES

77

the lives of the passengers and crew required the ves- '1818.
Th Samel
sel to put into port, gnd therefore it was innocent.
bre- T
my
of
two
by
In this opinion I' am supported
thren, the CHZF JUSTICE,and Mr. Justice WASHiN.aTO.

Decree afrmed.

(PAAcTICE.)

The SAMTUEL.-.BeaCh, et al. Claimants.
A witness offored to be examined, viva vace, in open court; in
an instance cause, ordered to be examined out of court.
This, cause, being an instance, or revenue ctuse,
Feb. 31.
had been ordered to farther proof at a former term.a
Mr. Daggett, for the claimants, now offered to produce a witness to be examined, viva voce, in open
court on farther -proof; but the' court, for the sake, of
convenience, ordered his'deppsition to be taken in wriFeb. 1 lk
ling outof c'ourt.
Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion

of the court, reversing the decree ,of condemnation in
the court below, and ordering the property to be, restored as claimed.Decree reversed.
a Vide ante vol. 1 p. 9.

