OF THE UNITED STATES.

(COMMON LAW.)
MURRt--Y'S Lessee v. BAKER et at.
The terms " beyond seas," in the proviso or saving clause ofa statute of limitations, are equivalent to without the limits of the State
where the statute is enacted ; and the party who is without thoso limits
is entitled to the benefit oi the exception.

,TH1s was an action of ejectment brought by the
plaintiff in error in the circuit court for the district of
Georgia; to recover the possession of certain lands lying in that state. At the tripL, a special verdict was
found, as follows:
9 We find that the lessors of the plaintiff have not
been in the state of Georgia since the defendants, or
their ancestors, came. into possession of the premises
sued for. We further find, that the ancestor of the
defendants possessed the land from about the year 1791
until his death, which happened about" February last,
and that the defendant, his -children, and legal repr&
sentatives, hale been in possession thereof from that
time. If the court are of opinion that the case of the
plaintiffs is excepted from the operation of the act of
limitations of this state, passed the 21st day of March,
1767, then 4e find for the plaintiffs, with ten cents damages; but-if the court are of a contrary opinion, then
we find for the defendants."
The judges of the court below divided on a motion
.that judgment should be entered up for the p]aintiffs

54

Murray
Ba.
Baker.'

LCASES

IN THE SUIREME COURT

1618.
'
Murray
V.

on this verdict, and the question was thereupon certified to this court.
The statute of limitations, in question is as fol-

Baker.

lows:
,"Be it enacted, &c. that all writs of formedon in
descender, -emander, and reverter of any lands, &c.
or any other writ, 'suit, or action, whatsoever, hereafter to be sued or brought, by Occasion or means of
,any title heretofore accrued, happened, or fallen, or
which may hereafter descend, happen, or fall, shall
be sued or taken within seven, years next after fhe
passing of this act, or after the title and cause of action shall'or may descend or accrue to the same, and
at no time after the said seven years. Ahd that no person or persons that now bath, or kave, any right or title
of entry into any lands, &c. shall at any time hereafter make any entry but within seven years next
after the passing of this act, or after his or their right
or title shall or may descend or accrue to The same;
and in default thereof, such person so not eiltdring,
and his heirs, shall be 'utterly excluded and disabled
from' such entry after to be made. Provided, nevertheless, that if any person or persons, that is or shall
be entitled to such writ or writs, or that bath, or shall
have such right or title of entry, be, or shall be, at
the time of such right or title first descended, accrued, come, or fallen, within the age of twenty-one
years, feme covert, non compos, mentis imprisonedr
or beyond seas, that then such person or persons, and
his and their heir, and heirs'v, shall or may, notwithstanding the said seven years are expired, bring his,
bet) or their- actioi, or make his, her, or their -entry,

04

OF THE UNITED STATES.
as he, she or they might have done before this act; ib
as such person, or persons, or his, her, or their heir
and heirs,,shall, within three years next after his, her,
or'their full age, dis'coverture, coming of soundmind,
enlargement out of prison, or returning from beyond
seas, take benefit of, and sue for the same, and. at no

.
Murray
i8

Baker;

time after the said three years#"
Ma
that the ter: , rcY Ist.
Mr. Berrien, for the plaintiff, argued
"beyond seas," in the statute of limitations, .was not to
be construed literally, according to its geographica.
import, but liberally, and with reference to the protec-tion which this clause of the statute was intended to .afford. "Beyond iens, and out'bf the state, vre analogousexpressions, and mus have the same construe o..
the expression beyond seas has been borrowed from 'a,'
dorresponding statute in Great Britain, -where it has a
local or geographical aptitude, which it does not possess here. The phraseology pf the English' stat htes
hqs b~en nmodified to adapt it to the verying circumstances of that nation. Anterior to the accession of the
first Jgmes, the northern part of the island was held'by
Scotland in distinct sovereignty, and in this sfate of
things the expression "beyond seas" would have bben
unapt. A resident of Scotland, though that countrywas then foreign to England, would not have been
within the proviso oof the statute. Accordingly, .we
find, that the corresponding expression in the sta'tutes-

a Per.Chief Justice MARSUAL.' Faw v. Roberdeau's ex'is-

3,0ranch, 174.;177.

CASES, IN THE SUPREVIE COURT
1818.
urra
Murray
T.
Baker.

-

passed anterior to this. period, is "out of the, realm."
And Mr. Justice Wilmot, in pronouncing his opinion
in the case of the King v. Walkera observes, that "the
legislature by altering the phraseology of the' statute
from 'out of the realm' to 'beyond seas' at this precise
period, seems to have pointed to the case ofa dwelling
in Scotland." During the -war of our revolution, the
British army was in possession of part of the state
of New-York. it has been held there, that-the maker of a promissory note, -who -was within the British
lines during such occupancy, and departed with the
British army at the close. of the war, was out of the
state during that time, and, therefore, not entitled to
plead the statute in bar;. and that the cause of action
accrued oily upon his coming i4to the state after the
peace. "The party was out of the jurisdiction of the
state.. He was quasi ,out of the realm. He was
wherethe anthority which was exercised, was derived, not from the state, but from the king of Great
Britain by right of conquest."b So, in this case, the
plaintiffs were never within the jurisdiction of the,
state : and if in the language of the chief justice first,
cited, beyond seas and out of the state are analogous,
expressions, they are entitled, to bring their action at
any time -within three years after coming into the
state. The opposite construction would involve the
absurdity of refusing the protection of the statute to
a person living in Chili, because access can be had
to that remote country by land; whilst it is extended
a I W:. B. 286.
b Sleight v Kane, I Johns. Gas. 76, 81.

OF THE U)NITED STATES:
to a person residing in the neighbouring West-India
island, because the seas 3iust be passed in order to
reach the latter.
on the othNo counsel appeared to argue the cause
er side.

b4f
1818.
v.
Baker.

Mr. Justice J bnrsor delivered the opinion of the a0rch7 91&
court. This is an action of ejectment. The defence
set up is the act of limitations of the state of Georgia. The only question which the case presents is,
whether the plaintiff, who resided in Virginia, comes.
within the exception in the act in favour, of persons"beyond seas."
On this question, the court are.unanimously of opin.ion, that to give a sensible construction to that act,
the words "beyond seas" must be held to- he equivalent
to "without the limits of the state," and order this opinion to be certified to the circuit court of the district of
Georgia.
Certificate foT the plaintiff.

V6L

