6M,
1818.
Ross

CASES.'IN THE:SUPREE COURT
ly protected and confirmed.by the ninth article of'00i
treaty of 1794.
These principles are'decisive of the -objection now

Triplet.. under consideration. In that, c'se, as in this, the le-,
gal title-vested hi the -alien by purchase during the
'war, and was not ddvested by any act of Virginia, prior to the treaty o 1794," which rendered their estates
absolute and indefeasible.
]Decree affirmed with costs.

(PRACTICE.)

Ross v.

TRIPLETT.

'Irscourthas no jtridiction o6causes bro ught bdrore it,.upon
,certiEcato of a diVision of opinions of t',e jiidjes of tho circuit court
Jfr the Districtof Columbia. Thisr.atjIylatc juiisdictioii ofthi; court,
ia isipect, to that court, only extends to the final judgments arid decrees qf the lattef.

Tnis cause *as brought from the circuit court for
the ditrict of;Columbia, upon a certificate that the
opinions:of the judges of that court were divided upon
a ruesetion wiich occurred in the cause, under tbe judiciary act of 1802* ch. 291. (xxxi.) s. 6. It'was submitted withput argument.
It was ordered to be certified to the circuit court,
MarcT& 12th for the district of Columbia, as follows :

OF THE UNITED STATES.

60:

CE1,TIFICATE.
This cause came on 'to be heard on 18t$.
the transcript of the record of the circuit court for the
"
District of Columbia, and on the question certified, on
The
Neptune.
which the judges of that court, were divided, and was
argued by- counsel. On consideration whereof this
court is of opinion, that its. jurisdiction extends only to
the final judgments and decrees of the 6aid circuit
court. It is, therefore, considered by this court, that
the cause be remanded to the said circuit court for the
District of Columbia, to be proceeded in according to
law.

(INSTANcE COURT.)

The

NEPTUNE,

Harrod et al. claimants.

Libel under the 27th section of the registry act'of 1792,ch.
146. 1.)
for the fraudulent use by a vessel of a certificateofregistry,
to the benefit of which she was not entitled. Vessel forfeited.
The provisions of the 27th section apply as well to vessels
which have
nist been previously registered, as to those to which registers
have been;
previously granted.

from the district court of Louisiana.
This cause was argued by Mr. D. B. Ogden, and Feb.
26th
Mr. C. J. Ingersoll, for the appellants and claimants,
and by the sttorney General, for the United States.
APPEAL

VOL.

II.

77

