OF THE UNITED STATES,
1818.

(COMMON LAW.)

Hughes.
V.
Union Ins.
Company

HUGHEs v.

THE UNIoN INSURANCE COMPANY.

Insurance on a vessel and freight "at and from Tenerifflo to the Havanna, and at and from thence to New-York, with liberty to stop at
,Matanzas," with a representation that the vessel was It to stop at
Matanias to know if there were aiy men of war off the Havarna."
The vessel sailed on the voyage insured, and put into Matanzas to
avoid British cruizers, who were then off the Havanna, and were in
the practice of capturing neutral vessels, trading from one Spanish
port to another. While at Matanzas she unladed her cargo, under
an order from the Spanish authorities; and afterwards proceeded toHavanna, whence she sailed on her voyage for New-York, and was afterwards lost , by the perils of the seas. It was proved that the stopping and delay at the Havanna was necessary to avoid capture, that
no delay was occasioned by discharging the cargo, and that the 1Ilsk
was not increased, but diminished.
Held, that the order of the Spanish government was obtained under
such circumstances as took from it the character of a vis major imposed upon the master, and was, therefore, no exclise for discharging
the cargo ; but that the stopping and delay at Matanzas were per.
mitted by the policy, and that the unlading the cargo was not adeviation. This case distinguished from that of the Maryland Imn&o.
v. La Roy, et al. 7 Cranch,26.

ERROR to the circuit court for the district of Mary-

land.
THrs was an action of assumpsit brought on a po-

licy insuring the ship Henry, and her freight, "at and
from Teneriffe to the Havanna, and at 'and from
thence to New-York, with liberty to stop -t Matanzas." At'the trial the plaintiff gave in evidence tlha
representation on which the policy was made, which
contained this expression: "We are to stop at Ma-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
tanzas to know if there are any men of war off the KaA818.
H.g$es vanna." The vessel sailed from Teneriffe on the 7th
Hughes
of April, 1807, and on the 7th of June following, put
V.
into Matanzas, in the island of Cuba, to avoid British
Ins.
Union
Company. cruizers, who were then cruizing on her way to, and off
the port of, Havanna, and who were then in the practice of capturing American vessels sailing from one
Spanish port to another. On the 6th of July, as soon
as the passage was clear, she proceeded o the Havanna, whence, on the 14th of July, she sailed on her voyage to New-York. On the 28th of that month she
foundered at sea, and was totally lost. The action
was for the insurance on the vessel and freight from
the Havanna. The underwriters gave in evidence,,that
while at Matanzas she unladed her cargo, and insisted
that this was a deviation, by which they were discharged, To repel this evidence, the plaintiffs showed that
the stopping and delay at Matanzas were necessary to
avoid capture, and, therefore, allowed by the policy;
that no delay was occasioned by discharging the cargo;
that the risk was not increased, but diminished by it;
and that an order from the Spanish government had
made this act necessary.
The court instructed the jury, that unlading the
cargo at Matanzas was a deviation which discharged
the underwriters, unless it was rendered necessary by
the order of the Spanish government at the Havanna.
That in this case the order did not justify such unlading, and that the underwriters were, consequently,
d'scharged. Under these directions the jury found
a veidict for the defendants. The plaintiff having
cepte tQ the opinion of the court, the judgmenit

OF THE UNITED STATES.
which was rendered in favour of the defendants was 1818.
Hughes
brought before this court on writ of error.
V.

Mr. Harper, for the plaintiff, argued, that the unla- Union Ins.

Company.
ding at Matanzas was by a mandate, and not a permis- Fcb. 12th.
don from the Spanish government, which being a
vis major, excused the master. That in this case the
risk was not increasedbut diminished, by stopping at Matanzas. Neither party"is at liberty to vary the risk;
but this rule applies to cases where the change may.produce some inconvenience to .th iusurer, not where it
does actually produce it merely. Unnecessary deviation always discharges the underwriters, because it
may increase the risk. But here the policy permitted
the stopping and delay at Matanzas; and die risk not
only could not be increased, but was actually diminished by discharging the cargo, and proceeding with the
vessel close along the shore to the Havanna. This
doctrine is not impugned, in the Maryland Insurance
Company v. Le Roy et al.a That case went on the
ground of variation from the terms of the policy. The
taking on board the jack asses might have increased
the risk; but -- hether in point of fact it did, or no.t, the
But in the pre§ent case
court said was- immaterial.
.of the contract; the
terms
the
from
variation
is
no
there
by unlading
increased,
risk neither was, nor could be,
the cargo. In Raine v. Bell,b the court of K. B. determined that a ship may trade at a port where she has lib"
a 7 Cranch,26.
b 9 East, 195.

VOL. III.

Marshaallois Ins. App. No. VIII. 834. 0.

22

162

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

erty to touch and stay, provided this occasions no delay,
18f8.
any increase or alteration of the risk. It has also
hnor
H.
been held in the courts of our own country, that selling
Un.on Ins. a part of the cargo during a necessary detention, does
Company. not discharge the insurers.
Mr. Winder, and Mr. jones, contra, argued, that the
proceedings of the Spahish authorities were a mere
permission, which the party might ise or not at his
pleasure, and not an imperious mandate which he was
compelled to obey. It is an elementary principle of insurance law, that whether the deviation increase the
risk or not, it discharges the underwriters.a The case
of the Maiyland Insurance Company v. Le Roy etal. illustrates the rule, and the jury there found that taking
on board the jackasses did not increase the risk. Discharging the cargo at a place where permission is only
given to touch, is a deviation,b It is immaterial whether the risk be increased, or diminished, or remaib the
same in quantum. In Raine v. Bell, the jury found
that the vessel would have otherwise been necessarily
detained while she was taking in the cargo; and that
case proves nothing more than that, while so detained,
the master, inay take in cargo, but not break bulk.
Staying to unlade increases the risk; but taking cargo
on board, while necessarily detained, does not increase
or alter the risk.
a I Emerigon, Des A.suranes, 558.
185. el infra.

1 Marshall on Int.

6 Marshallon Ins. 208. !75, and the cases there collected.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1818.
Mr. D. B. Ogden, in reply, contended that the quesHughes
the
of
tion was whether during the necessary detention
vessel the master had a rightto land the cargo. The- U ni v.
on Ins,
authority of Kane v. The Columbia Insurance Compa
Company.
to
according
If
ny is conclus*ve to show that he had.
cargo at a port o f necessity, neither is it a deviation t,
land the cargo at a port of necessity. The case of the
Maryland Insurance Company v. Le Rby, et al..is dis.
tinguishable. Where the master deviates from necessity, his subsequent conduct, if bona fide, cannot discharge the insurers. But in this case he acted in good
faith for the benefit of all parties.
16
Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion Feb., T
of the court, and after stating the facts, proceeded as
follows:
At the trial the cause seems to have turned princi- pally on the necessity to unlade the cargo at Mantanzas produced by the order of the Spanish government
at the Havanna. As this court concurs with the circuit
judge in the opinion that this order was obtained under
circumstances which take from it the character of a
force imposed on the master, and compelling him to
discharge his cargo, and is, therefore, no excuse for
such discharge, it will be unnecessary farther to notice
that part of the case. The question to be considered
is, that part of the opinion which declares that unlading
the cargo at Matanzas, although it occasioned no delar
and did, not increase, but diminish the risk, was a deviation which discharged the underwriters.

164

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT.

In considering this question, it is to be observed that
the termini of the voyage were not changed. The
was
Henry did sail from Ten eriffe to the Havanna, and
The
lost on the voyage from the Havanna tQ Baltimore.
policy permitted her to stop at Matanzas, and the purThe stopping
there were any men of
,of stopping was to know if
nd delay by_tpose
w
be idle to stop for the
would
-It
Havanna.
p~ermitted
war off the
Mtnzbas
purpose of making this ehquiry, if it were not intended
thepolicy.
that the Henry might continue at Matanzas so long as
the danger continued. The stopping and delay at Matanzas is then expressly allowed by the policy.
But, admitting this, it is contended, that unlading the
1818.
Hughes
*
'
v.
Union Ins.
Company.

The unlading
thecargo w,

cargo is a deviation.
And why is it a deviation? It produced no delay,
Th

voyage.
;ol adpyiation no, increase of risk, and did not alter the

The

vessel pursued precisely the course marked out for her
in the policy. In reason nothing can be found in this
transaction which, ought to- discharge the underwriters.
If, however, the case has been otherwise decided, especially in this court, those decisions must be respected.
In Stitt v. Wardel, (1 Esp. N. P. Rep. 610.) it was
il-termined that liberty to touch and stay at any port
did not give liberty to trade at that port ; and in Sherthat
iffv. Potts, (5 Esp. N. P. Rep. 96.). it was decided
liberty to touch and discharge goods did not authorise
the taking in of other goods. These cases certainly
but
bear considerable force on that under consideration,
been
have
to
they were decided at nisiprius and seem
of
in a great degree overruled by the court in the case
unRaipe v. Bell, reported in Oth East. In that cas6,

OF THE UNITED STATES.
8
der a policy to touch and stay at any place, goods were r81 .
taken on board during a necessary stay at Gibraltar. ' Hughes
The court was of opinion that as this occasioned no'
v.
In.
Union
the
risk,
the
of
alteration
or
increase
any
nor
del;y
Company.
of
case
the
Between
recover.
to
entitled
plaintiff was
Raine v. Bell, and this case, the court can perceive no
essential difference.
In the supreme court of Pennsylvania, (Kingston v.
Gerard, 4 Dal. 274.) a similar question occurred, and it
was there held, that unlading and selling part of her
cargo by a captured vessel during her detention, would
not avoid the policy.
But it is contended, that this point has been settled in Thiscae
ditinuihedthis court, in the case of the Maryland Insurance Corn- fromte
pany against Le Roy and others. In that case, a liber-rylandIns.Co,
v. Le Roy at
ty was reser ved in the policy "to touch at the Cape deat. 7 crunh,
26
Verd Islands for the purchase of stock, such as hogs, .
goats, and poultry, and faking in water." The vessel
stopped at Fago, one of the Cape de Verd Islands, and
took in four bullocks and four Jackasses, besides water and other provisions, unstowed the dry goods, and
broke open. two bales, and took 40 pieces out of each,
for trade. The vessel remained at the island from'the
7th to the 24th of May, although the usual delay at
those islands for taking in stock and water, when the
weather is good, is from two to three days. The weather was good during this delay; and the bullocks and
jackasses encumbered the deck of the vessel, more than
small stock would have done. The court left it to the

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
jury to determine, whether the risk was increased by
1818.
taking the jackasses on board, and directed them to find
'
Hughes
for the plaintiffs, unless the risk was thereby increased.
v.
Union Lhs. The jury found for the plaintiffs ; and this court reverCompany. sed the judgment rendered on that verdict, because the
taking in the jackasses was not within the permission of
the policy.
perfectly clear, that the case of the Maryland
It -is
Insurance Company v. Le Roy and others, differs inaterially from this. In that case, articles were taken on
board xihich encumbered the deck of the vessel, and
which were not'within the liberty reserqed in the policy. In that case too, the insured trade 1, and the delay
was considerable and unnecessary ; the risk, if not increased, might be, and certainly was varied. The
judge, therefcre, ought not to have left it to the jury
on the single point of increase of risk by taking in the
jackasses. Although the risk might not be thereby increased, the unauthorised delay and unauthorised trading during that delay, connected with taking on board
unautborised articles, discharged the underwriters according to the settled principles of law ; and the court
does not say in that case that these circumstancR- were
immaterial or without influence. The court does not
feel itself constrained by the decision in the Maryland
Insurance Company v. Le Roy et al. to dete-mine that
in.this case also, which differs from that in several
important circumstances, the underwriters are dis-

OF THE UNITED STATES.
charged. The Judgment is reversed, and the cause remanded, with directions to issue a venire facias de no-

1818.
Hughes

VO.

V.

Judgment reversed.
a In the case of Urquhart v.
Barnard, it was held by the
English court of C. B. that if
a ship has liberty, to touch at
a port, it is no deviation to
take in merchandize during
her allowed stay there., if she
does by means thereof exceed
the period allowed for her remaining there. And that if
liberty be given to touch at a
port, the contract not defining
for what purpose, but a communication having been made
to the underwriter, that the
ship was to touch for a ptrpose of trade, it shall be intended as a liberty to touch
for that pirpose. I 2-dunt.
450. Liberty to touch at a

Union Ins.
Company.

portfor any purpose whatever
includes liberty to touch for
the purpose of taking on board
part of the goods insured
Violet v. Allnutf, 2 Tauni.
416. Under a liberty-to touch
and stay at all ports for all
purposes whatsoever the stay
must be for some purpose connected with the furtherance of
the adventure. Wheth,,r the
purpose is within the scope of
the policy, is a question for
the court. The policy not
limiting the time of stay,
whether a ship has staid a
reasonable time for the purpose, is purely a question for
the jury: Langhorn.v. Alnutt
4 Taunt. i 1.

