OF TME UNITED STATEf-'-$
on principle, but the most liberal and honarable to" 161t
Houston
the jurisprudence of this country.V..
Farther proof ordered.a
*'Mr. Justicd'TonD and: Mr. JusticeDtVAi.1did not tit in-

(PRACTICE.)

HOUSTON v. MooR
i%. cbuit has no jurisdiction under the 25th section ot the judiciary ad"
of 1789, ch. 20; unless thejudgrnent, or decree, f th6 state court be
ifina judgment or decrec. A juaginnt reversing that oi~an inferiol'
dourt, and awarding a venirk facias de ttovo isnot a finaljudgment.-

ERROR to the supreme court 'of'te state of Peih ,
sylvania.
This was an action of trespass, brought by tie plaihtiff in error against the defendant in error, for levying
a fine ordezed to be collected by. the sentencei 6f a
court martial, under an act of't~ei 1egislattire-of the
state of Pennsylvania, which" was. alleged to' be repugnant to the constitution .and laws of the United'
States. The suit was .commenced- in the court of4
common pleas for the county of tancaster,'in which
court a trial was had, and the jury, under the charge
h
of the court, found a verdict for the plaiutiffCon'whic
56
VoL. III.

Moore.

04

CASES INTHE SUPREME CO URT

to
1SI& judgment was rendered.' The cause -was carried
ioust
the supreme court of the state of Pennsylvania, by writ
v.
of error, where the judgment of the court of common
Moore. pleas was. reversed, and the cause remanded to that
,court, with directions to award a venire, facias de ?oo.
The plaintiff then sued out of a writ of-error, to bring
the'eause to this court.
Kl. C.J. rngersoll moved to dismiss the writ of error, as having been'improvider.tly issued under the
25th section of the judiciary act, oh. 20. the decision of
the state court not being a "final judgment" in the
cause.-

Mr. Hopins, contra.
of the
Mr. Ch.J. MARSHALL delivered thdopinion

court, under
eburt. The appellate jurisdiction of this
20. extends
te 25th section of the judiciary act, ch.
courts
highest
the
of
only to afijznajugment or decree
Al~t a
is
This
of law 9 requity in the cases specified.
Pennsylvania.
Aaljudgment of the supreme court of
in favour of
determined
finally
The causp,may yet be
oawf in the state, court;
Lssed.
Writ of error d
This cause came on to ie heardI orr
court of
tI transcript of thp record )f the supreme
tancasthe
forth co.nmonwealth of Pennsylvania,
adjudged
it is
ter district. On examination whereof,
this cause be
in
error
of
writ
and ordered, that the
not havand the same is hereby dismissed, this, court
ijVVGMENT;

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1430

ing jurisdiction in said causa, there not having been a 1818.
final judgment in said suit, in: the said supreme court of T'"'
the commonwealth of Pennsylvania.a
q CostA are not given where the writ of error is dismissed
for want of jurisdiction. Inglee v. Coolidge, ante, vol. II. p.
168.

(PIzIE.)
The ANNE, Baraubeu, Claimant.
The captors are competent witnesses upon an order Ifor farther. proor
where the benefit of it is extended to both parties.
The captors are always competent witnesses, as to the circumstances
of the capture, whether it bejoint, collusive, or within neutral territory.
It is not competent for a neutral consul, without the special authority of
his government, to interpose a claim on account of the violation of
territorial jurisdiction of his country.
Qucere, Whether such i.claim can be interposed, even by a public misinter, without the sanction of the government in Whose tribunal* the
cause is pending?
A capture, made within neutral territory, is, as between the belligqr.
enite, rightful; and its validity can only be questioned by the neutral
state.
If the captured vessel commences hostilities upon the- captor, shs
tforfeits the neutral protection, and the capture is not an injury Lbr
which redress can be sought from the neutral sovereign.
Irregularities on the part of the captors, originating from mere mistake,
"or negligence, which work no i-rcparable mischief, and are consistent
w Ith good faith, will not forfeit their rights of prize.
APPEAL

and.

to the circuit court of the district of Mary-

'

