OF THE UNITED STATES.

60:

CE1,TIFICATE.
This cause came on 'to be heard on 18t$.
the transcript of the record of the circuit court for the
"
District of Columbia, and on the question certified, on
The
Neptune.
which the judges of that court, were divided, and was
argued by- counsel. On consideration whereof this
court is of opinion, that its. jurisdiction extends only to
the final judgments and decrees of the 6aid circuit
court. It is, therefore, considered by this court, that
the cause be remanded to the said circuit court for the
District of Columbia, to be proceeded in according to
law.

(INSTANcE COURT.)

The

NEPTUNE,

Harrod et al. claimants.

Libel under the 27th section of the registry act'of 1792,ch.
146. 1.)
for the fraudulent use by a vessel of a certificateofregistry,
to the benefit of which she was not entitled. Vessel forfeited.
The provisions of the 27th section apply as well to vessels
which have
nist been previously registered, as to those to which registers
have been;
previously granted.

from the district court of Louisiana.
This cause was argued by Mr. D. B. Ogden, and Feb.
26th
Mr. C. J. Ingersoll, for the appellants and claimants,
and by the sttorney General, for the United States.
APPEAL

VOL.

II.

77

oCASES

IN THE SUPREME COURT

Mr. Justice DUVALL delivered the opinion of the
court. The ship Neptune, owned and commanded by
London
Neptune. Captain Myrick, arrived at New-Orleans.from
he ap-'
day
next
the
On
1815.
on the 20th of October,
of the
one
Ogden,
M.
peared, in company with George
Nepthe
appellants, at the custom house, and reported
tune as a registered vessel of the United States, belonging to Wilmington North Carolina, where, he alleged,
and it was so stated in the manifest, she was registered.
He declared, at the same time, that he had lost the
register in ascending the Miisissippi, and required a
new one to be issued'in lieu ofit. Captain Myrick had
made a pr'otest before a notary public to that
effect, and offered to take the oath required by the 13th,
section of the act, enti.tled, an act 'ioncerning the
registering and recording of ships or vessels, but was
taken sick, and, in a few days afterwards, died without
118.

taking it.
George M. Ogden administered on the estate 'of
Captain Myrick, - and on the 22d of Nov ember, the
court of probates ordered e sale of the effects of the
intestate, which was made on the 5th of December
following, at which sale Messrs. Harrod and Ogdens
became the purchasers of the Neptune, for 7,500 dollars.
On the 19th of January, 1816, Messrs. Harrod and
Ogdens addressed a letter to the collector, requesting
to be infofjmed whether a register could be granted
for the ship Neptune, on the ovner- taking the oath
prescribed by law. The collector replied, by .letter
dated the 20th, That a reg'ster had been refused the
slhip Neptune, on'the ground that the oath, offered to

VDF THE UNITED STATES.
s'how the loss of a former register was insufficient,
iasrmuc.h as it contained an assertion that the register

1818.

The
lost was granted at the port of Wilmington in North Nepfune,
Carolina, and by a letter from the collector of that
port, information had been received that no such regis.
ter was ever issued from his office. The collector was
afterwards examined as a witness in the cause, and declared on oath to the same dffect.
George M. Ogden, one of the owners, afterwards
applied at the collector's office for a register, offering
to take an oath, the form of which he had prepared,
varying from the form of the oath required by law;
he was informed by the collector it was not sufficient, and that unless he would take the oath in the
form prescribed by the registry act, a register could
not be granted. Mr. Ogden pressed the form of the
oath which he had tendered, but was again told it
c, ,ld not be received. Mr. Ogden had been shown
ne letter from the collector at Wilmington, and had
been informed of its contents by the attorney for the
district. Nevertheless, he appeared in the collectors's
office on the 22d of January, 1816, and took the
oath required by law, relying, as he said, tn the oath
which Captain Myrick had taken, as the ground of
his oath ; and a register issued in form to the owners, Richard Peniston, master.
In this oath he
deposed, that "being owner in part and having charge
of the ship or vessel called the Neptune, the said
ship or vessel had been, as he verily believed, registered according to law by the name of Neptune,
and that a certificate thereof was granted by the cobz
lector of the district of Wilmington in the state of

CA&SES IN THE SUPREME COURT

304
1818.
The "

North Carolina, which certificate had been lost and
destroyed by accidentally falling overboard in the

:Neptune. river Mississippi."
On the part of the owners, John i'Cauley, mate
of the Neptune, deposed, that on her voyage from
London to New-Orleans, he had seen the register of
the ship Neptune frequently, and before the issuing
of the new register ne had' assured Mr. Ogden he
had seen it, and that he believed it to be dated at
Wilmington, North Carolina, and that it was lost, by
-accident, from the pocket of' the captain in the river
Mississippi; and that he had no reason to doubt it a
genuine one. M'Cauley being asked, "Did captain,
Myrick tell you on his return from town that he had
shown the register' to Messrs. Harrod and' Ogdens ?
answered, he ad laid the pocket book containing
it on the desk. The carpenters, who repaired the
Neptune, certified that in their opinion, she wAs built
in the United States.
The Neptune .cleared out at the custom house of
New-Orleans, on the 9th day of February, 1816,
when she was immediately seized by the collector,
as forfeited to the United States, and libelled for a
breach 'of the 27th section of the act of congress of
the 31st of December, 1792, ch. 146. (I.) entitled,
cAn act concerning the registering and recording of
ships or vessels." Upon these facts, the Neptune together with, her tackle, apparel and furniture, was, by
tae sentence of the district court, condemnned as forfeited to the United States. From this decree the owners
appealed to this court.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

60

1818.
The question for the decision of this court must depend upon the true construction of the act before mentioned. If the appellants have, in all respects, corn- Neptune.
plied with the requisites of that act, they have incurred no forfeiture; if any of its provisions,, which inflidt
a forfeiture of the vessel for a non-compliance, have
been violated, a forfeiture will ensue.
By the first section of the act, it is provided, that
sbips or vessels of the United States shall not continue
to enjoy the benefits and privileges appertaining to such
ships or -vessels, longer than they shall continue to be
wholly owned, and be commanded by a citizen, or citizens, of the United States.
The third section directs that all vessels, thereafter
to be registered, shall be registered by the collecter of
the district, in which shall be comprehended the port
to which the ship or vessel shall belong at the time of
her registry; which port shall be deemed to be that
at or nearest to which the owner, if there be but one, or
if more than one, the husband or acting and managing
owner, of such ship or vessel usually resides; and the
name of the vessel, and of the port to which she belongs, shall be painted on her stern.
The fourt section prescribes the substance of the
oath to be taken in order to the registry, and contains
a clause of forfeiture, in case any of the matters of
fact, which shall be within the cnowledge of the party
swearing, shall not be true. The fifth section makes it
the duty of all the owners resident within the United
States, to takea like oath within ninety days after the
granting the register.

106

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT'

The ninth section directs the collector of each district to keep a record of all ships and vessels to which
The
Neptune. regiters shall have been granted, and prescribes the
form of the register. The tenth section directs a
copy of each register to be transmitted to the register
of fhe treasury, who shall cause a record of them to be
1818.

''

kept.
The eleventh section directs the course of proceeding, in case a vessel be pirchased by a citizen before
registry, and contains a clause of forfeiture in case of
false swearing.
By the thirteenth section it is enacted, that if the
certificate of registry of any vessel shall be lost, destroyed, or mislaid, the master, or other person having
the charge or command of her, may make oath, or affirmation, before the collector of the district, where
such vesqel shall first be, after such loss or destruction;
and the form of the oath is prescribed. It is an essential part of the oath, that in it shall be stated the name
ofthe collector, and the port at which the former register was granted.
The fourteenth section requires, that when a registered vessel shall be sold or transferred to a citizen of
the United States, she shall be registered anew *by her
former name; and if not registered anew, she shall not
be entitled to the privileges or benefits, of a ship of
the United States.
By the twenty-seventh section it is provided, that
if any certificate of registry or record shall be fraudulently, or knowingly, used for any ship or vessel not
then actually entitled to the benefit thereof, according
to the true intent of the act, such ship or vessel shall

OF THE UNITED S rATES.
be forfeited to the United States, with her tackle, ap- 1818.
parel, and furniture.
The,
In the argument of this case it was admitted by Neptune.
the counsel for the appellants, that the register was
improperly obtained, but it was denied that - the . vessel became thereby forfeited under' the, 27th, or any
other sectioa of the registry act. And it was contended that the owner having a register issued Icy
the collector, was proof that it was not fraudu-'
lently obtained. In support of this position, the
case of the Anthony Mangin was cited from 3 Cranch.
337.
To this it was replied, that the appellants purchased
the Neptune knowing that she was without a register.
That' it was alleged to have been granted to the former owner by the collector for the port of Wilmington)
in North Carolina, and that it was lost. The appellants knew that information had been received fiom the
collector at Wilmington, that a register for the
Neptune had never been issued at that port; and
that, therefore, it was fraudulently obtained, and
used for the Neptune, not then entitled to the
benefit of it.
The case of the Anthony Mangin does not sup'port the argument of the appellant's counsel. In that
case an action was brought by the United States
against Grundy and Thornburgh, for money had and received for the use of the United States by the defendants, as assigaees of Aquila Brown, junior, a
bankrupt, it being money received by the defendants for the sale of the ship Anthony Mangin,
Swhich ship the United States alleged was forfeited by

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1818
reason that Brown, in order to obtain a register for
T h er as a ship of the United States, had falsely sworn
The
Neptun(e that she was his sole property, when he knewthat she
was in part owned by an alien. There was no proceed'ing in rem against the vessel. It was a suit against
the assignees of Brown for the value of the vessel
and the court decided that an action for the value
could only be supported against the person who had
taken the oath.
It is evident "fromthe facts in this case, that George
M. Ogden, when he applied for a register for the Neptune, did not believe.that he could with safety take
the oath required by law ; because he had prepared an
oath varying in form from the oath required, -x'hich he
pressed the collector to be permitted to take, but
which the collector refused to administer. And the
collector was of opinion, until he consulted the district
attorney, that he ought not to be permitted to take the
oath prescribed, as he could not do it without swearing to a fact which was known to be untrue. For this
reason he refused to admit :ster the oath to C.,.ptain
Myrick in his life time.
There are strong grounds for the belief that the
Neptune never had a genuine register. She is represented in the inanifest to have been built at Bostgn---r
to be owned by Captain Myrick of New-York-and
that she belonged to the port of Wilmington, in North
Carolina. If she had been built at Boston, and belonged at the time to a person residing in New-York,,it is
more than probable that, pursuant to the provisions of
the third section of the act, she would have been regis.
tered at one of those places. If Captain Myrick or

OP THE UNITED STATES.
I38
the present owners had been desirous of obtaining cor'nm
rect information .on the subject, it w ould have been
Ndptune.
depart"
treasury
the
to
application
ftarnishel on
ment. A'1 registers are transmitted regularly to the
register of* the treasury to be registered in his
-ofice.
It should be recollectedf, that the mate of the Neptune testified, that Captain Myrick, after returning frorl
the house of Messrs. 'Harrod and Ogdens to his
vessel said he had left his pocket-book containing
the register oa Ftheir' desk. Hence, it ii rational
to conclude, either that Captain Myrick had no register, or that if he had one, it would not bear inspection.
Upon the'whole, the court are of opinion that the register was fraudulen4y and knowningly used for the
Nepjunt, when she was not entitled to the benefit of itand that shc is ferfeited for a violation of the provisions
of the 27th section of the registry' act ; and that the
provisions cf that section apply as well to vesseis
vhich have not been previously rcgist ered, as to
those to which registers have been previously granted.

Decree affirmed -

DECRFE.-This cause came on to be heard on the
transcript of the record, and was argued by counsel
On consideration whereof, it is decreed and ordered
that the decree of the district court of Louisiana in this
case be, and the same is hereby affirmel, with costs and
dainages at the rate of six per centumi per annum, inVOL. III.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1818.

ctding interest on thtiamount of the appraised valuie
of the said ship Neptune, to be computed' from the dateThe
U. States of the decree of the said. district court,
V.

Palm ez

THE UNITED S9.rATES V. P'ALMER

etal.

A: robbery committed on tile bligh sens, although such rol-bery if committed on land would not by the )au s of the United States be purshhable with death, is pirtrnj, underthe 8th section ofthe act of 1790,
oh.'36, (ix) for the punishment of certain crimnes against the United
States; and the circuit courts havejuri.d&etion thereof
The crime ofrobbern. as nenticnmd in ihe act, is the eritno of robbcry
as recognized and defined at common lair.
The crime ofroLbery committed by a pcrsor'%%ho is not a citizen of
lhe United States, on the high seas, on board a Ehip belonging exr
elusively to, subjects of a foreign state, is not piracy under the act
and is not punishable in the courts of the Unitt d Statte.
When a civil war rages in a foreign nation, one part of which separates itself from theold 'stab'ifl.ed te:v(rn nt, nd crcits it*(.If
into a distinct government, the courts of the Union thust view such
newvly constituted government, as it is viewed by the legi~latiie and
executive departments of the government of the United States:.
If that government remains neutral, but recognizes the existence of a
civil war, the courts of tme Union cannot consider as criminal thoso
acts of hostiity which war authorizes, and uhich tlo new goveror
inent may direct against its enemy.
The same te.timony wh'ich woul] be sufficient to prove that a vessel or
person is in, the service of an acknowlcdaed state, is admitsible to
prove that they are in the service orsuch novhy erected .nvornment.
Its seal cannot be alioc rd to prove it~elfu
lut may be proved lby such
testimony aq the nature of the case admits ; an! thelfact that a vesso! or person is in the service ofsuch g . .rnient may be cstabl;hed
etherwise, ,hould it be impracticable to prove.tile seal.

THis case was certified from the circuit court for the
Massachusetts district

