CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
sonv. Lumn. 3 Johns. Cas. 109.
See also Jackson v. Wright, 4
•
The Friend- o
R. 75. The treaty of
schaft. 'onns.
1704, relates only to lands ther.
held by British subjects, and not
1818.

.o any after acquired lands.
Jackson v. Decker, 11 Johns.
R. 418,422.
In the case of Fairfax's devisea v. Hunter's lessee, 7
i'ranch, 603, and ante, vol. I.
'p. 304. it was adjudged, Ist.
That dn alien enemy may take
by purchase though not by descent; and that; -%,hether the
purchase be by grant or by devise. 2d. That the title thus ac-

quired by an alien enemy is no
devested until office fotind.
3d. That whether the treaty
of peace of 1783, declaring
that no future confiscations
should be made, protects from
forfeiture, under the municipal
laws respecting alienage, lands
held by British subjects at the
time of its ratification, or not,
yet that the 9th article of the
treaty of It94 completely protected the title of a British devisce, whose e&tate had pot
been preyiously devested by an
inquest ofoffice, or some eqiyalet proceeding

(PRIZE.)

The FRIENDSCHAFT-Wfinn, et al. Claimants.
court corrected and
Informal and imperfect proceedings in the district
explained in the circuit court.
unaccompanied
A bill oflading, consigning the goods to a neutral, but
to entitle
evidence
sufficient
not
is
advice,
of
by an invoice or letter
foundation for the
a
lay
to
sufficient
is
but
restitution;
to
the claimant
iitroduction of farther proof.
being found on board,
The fact of invoices aud letters of advice not
spoliated. But even
been
have
papers
that
suspicion
a
induce
may
a cargo chiefly
carrying
if it were proved that an enemy master,
to whom
claimant,
neutral
a
board,
over
papers
hostile, had thrown

from farther
no fraud is impatable, ought not thereby to be prccluded
proof.

OF THE

NITED STATES.

The nat*ve character does no' revert, by a more return to his native
country, of a merchant, who is domiciled in a neutral country at the
time ofcapture; who afterwards leaves his commercial establishment
in the neutral country to ho conducted by his clerks in his absence;
who visits his native country merely on mereantil business, and
intends to return to his adopted country. Under these circumstances,
the neutral domicil still continues.
Britihl subjects resident in Portugal, (though entit'ed to great privilege-,)
do not retain" their native character,, but acquire that of the country
where they reside and carry on their trade.

APPEAL from the circuit court for the district of
North Carolina.
The brig Friendschaft was captured on a voyage
from Lond5n to Lisbon, by the privateer Herald, and
brought into Cape ffiar, in North Carolina, where the
vessel and cargo were libelled, in July, 1814, as prize
of war. The commercial agent of his royal highness
the Prince Regent of Portugal, interposed a claim to
several packages, parts of the said .cargo, on behalf of
the respective owners, whom he averred to be Portuguese subjects and merchants residing in Portugal.
The cargo consisted of many different shipments.
Most cf them were accompanied with bills of lading,
directing a delivery to shipper or order. Of these a
few were specially indorsed.
Generally, however,,
they were without endorsements, or with blank
endorsements only. A few shipments were accompanied with bills of lading, deliverable to persons in Lisbon, especially named in the bills. Very few were
accompanied with letters or invoices. These, it was
alleged in the claim, had probably been sent by the regular packet.
In August 1814, the district court pronounced its

1818.

The Friendsehaft.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COUBIT
1818.
sentence, condemning as prize of war, "all that part of
cargo for wh;ch no claim had been put in," and
idthe
Th
schaft. ' "all'that part of the cargo which Was shipped, as evidence by bills of ladin', either without endorsement or
with blank endorsements, and not accompanied by letter or invoice, viz.
and that part appearing by the
bill of lading to consist of forty bales of goods shipped by Moreira, Vieira, and Machado. Farther proof
was ordered with respect to the residue of the cargo
itnd the vessel.
From this sentence the claimants appealed to the circuit court. That court:, in Mayo 1815, dismissed so
much of the appeal as respected.the Ibrig, and that part
of the cargo in respect to whicKh farthei" proof was
ordered, as having been improvidently allowed before a.final sentence, and affirmed the residue of the
decree, except in regard to the forty bales shipped by
More'ira, Vieira, and Machado, with respect to which
farther proof Was directed,, to establish the right of
Francis Jose Moreira to restitution of one third part
thereof.
In April, 1816, farther proof was exhibited to the
district court, in support of the claim for the parts of
the cargo 'comprehended in the lills of lading numbered 108,'109, 141, 122, and 118, which bills being deliverable to merchants residing in Lisbon, whose names
were expressed therein, were not endorsed. The far.
ther proo was deemed sufficient and restitution was
ordered. The vessel and the residue of the cargo were
condemned as prize of war.
From -so'much of this sentence as awarded resti-

OF THE UNITED STATES.
tution, the captors appealed ; and in May, 1S16, the
1818.
circuit court decreed as follows: "This court being 'ienof opinion that the former sentence of the district ichaft.
court, affirmed by the sentence of this co'urt, rendered in May term, in the year 1815, having been left,
imperfect by omitting to recite the particular claims
intended to be involved in the condemnation pronounced in the district court in terms of general description ; and being also of opinion that the words
'all that part of the cargo which was shipped as
evdenced, by bills of lading, either without endorsement, or with blank endorsements, and not accompaniecd with letter or invoice, could be intended
for those bills only which were to shipper or order,
and not to those-addressed to consignees named in
the bill itself, is of opinion that there is no error in
the sentence of the district court, and doth affirm the
same. ))
From this decrea the.captors appealed to -this court.
On the interposition of this appeal, the circuit court
ordered that Joseph Winn, a British born subject' resident in Portugal, in whose behalf a claim was filed to
No. 118, should be permitted to offer farther proof to
the supreme court, to be admitted or rejected by that
court.
Mr. Wheaton, for the' appellants and captors. 1.
The decrees of the district court of August, 1814,
and of the circuit court of May, 1815, were final and
conclusive, and ought to have precluded the district
court from subsequently allowing farther proof as to
these five claims. The terms of general description,
VOL. Ill.
4

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1818.
which are used by the judge of the district court, are
ie , rlend- eqtvalentoto a particular designation of the claims intended to be condemned. "All that part of the cargo
§chaft.
which -vas shipped as evidenced by bills of lading,
.either without endorsement, or with blank entorse'
ment6, and not accompanied with letter or invoice, is as effectually condemned by the sentence, as if the
particular portions of tfie cargo' thuA documented had
The portions 'now
been specifically enumerated.
claimed were shipped as evidenced by bills of lading,
either without endorsement, or with blank endorse2nents, and not accompanied with letter or invoice.
Consequently, they were, included in the condemnation by the district court, whick -becdme final and
conclusive upon the, parties, by Me decree of the
circuit court rendered at May term, 1815, affirming
that of the district court, and from which no appeal
was entered. The subsequent proceedings, by which
the district court admitted the claimants to farther
proof, were, therefore, coram non judice, and utterly
null and. void. These branches of the cause were
completely extinct, and could not be revived in any
court. 2. And .can this court have the least doubt of
the justice and legality of this decree of- the district
court, as thus understood and explained ? Ii it possible that it is come to this, that in a court of prize, a
mere bill of lading to A. B. or assigns, unsupported
by any other documentary evidence found on board,
or by the oath of the master, shall be regarded as
sufficient, even to entitle the party to farther proof?
If goods shipped in the enemy's country can pass

OF THE UNITED' STATES.
.
1818.
the seas under so thin a veil as this, the defects of
he-iead
fabricated
bysupplied
which aay afterwards be
The Friendproofs, what security is there for belligerent' rights ? -1chaft.
To what cause are we to attribute a transaction so
unusual and irregular in commerce, but to 'the desire of the British shippers and 'wners to retain in
their own hands the double power of stopping the
goods in transitu, and of enabling the consignees to
claim them in the prize court in case of capture? If
this practice be tolerated by. the 'court, the enemy .
shipper need resort to no complicated machinery of
traud in order to dover his'property. He-needdo no
more:'than put on board -a bill of lading, unaccompanied by any invoice c f the goods, or letter. of advice showing 'to -whom the property vests. In case
of'capture, nothing more will be neeessa'ry than to
enter a claim in the name of the neutral consignee,
and to demand an order for farther proof, and under
that order to ransack the great ofioina fraudis to
find the instruments of forgery and perjury; the aid
of which will not become necessary, in: case the shiptaett thus made, escapes the vigilance and activity
of the belligerent cruisers. Should they thus escape,
the goods will be sold on account of the enemy shipper, and the proceeds of the sale will be remitted 'to
him again by the same process ; and thus the whole
of the enemy's trade may be effectually screened
from the perils of war. A bill of lading is an instritment too easily fabricated, to permit a court of prize
td consider it alone as furnishing any,'proof, (even
presumptive,) of property in the consignee. Whether
the goods had been previously ordered by the Portu-

2U

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1818.

Thed
sihat:

guese consigice, or -ent by the British shipper for
sale on his own account, they would equally have
been accompanied by the same document, which is,
equivalent ro 2,o cvidence wha:ever ot proprietary inerest found on board. Unless some such e-idence
be found on board, or a foundation be laid by the
preparatory examinations of the captured crew, to
let the claimants into fartler proof, the necessary simplicity of the prize proceedings forbids a resort to extraneous tes.imony ; and, as that originally before the
court is insufficient to entitle Alie party to restitution,
ondemnation must ensue. Not only are the bills of
Jading unaccompanied by invbices and letters of advice, but they do not express the shipment to be "for
account and risk" of the consignees ; and the freight
is payabie in. London,. and, (of course,) by the consignors. These cireumstances distinguish this case
Prom all those cases in which it has been determined,
(under the municipal law,) that a bill of lading, cpressing the shipment to be fo'r accouit and risk of the
consignee or his assigns, vests the property in him,
subject only to the right of stoppage in transitu; and
the same- circumstances liken it to those where the
obligation on the part of the consignor to, pay the
freight was held to authorise him to bring n action
against the carrier master" fdr the goods notwithstanding the form of the bill of lading.4
It is
wholly incredible, that the letters and invoices
which ought to have accompanied these shipments,
were sent by the Lisbon packet, (as suggested,) since

a. Davisetal v. James, 5 Burr. 2690.
1. ., 669,

Moora v. Wilson, i

OF THE UNITED STATES.
18t8.
though dtplicales of such papers -may be sent, and
frequently are sent, by conveyances, other than that,r~nd
of the ship in which the goods are tiansported, yet schaft.
it is unusual and'mercantilely irregular not to send
the originalswi.h the goods. ThQ invoices are, by the
revenue laws of most, if not all countries, indispensably necessary to enter the goods at the custom-house.,
avoiding the inconvenience of unpacking andi valuing
them. These papers are required by the law of nations,
and the prize code of every country, to acc.onpany the.
bill of lading, in order to fortify anA c'nfirm it;
The absence of them does not, indeed, in all cases,
furnish a substantive -ground of condemnation, and
exclude the party from farther proof. But in order to
avoid this consequence there must be some favourable
presumption raised by the circumstances of thi
case, and the nature of the documentary .evidence
i'his presumption cannot exist in
found on board.
the case of a shipment in the enemy's country, of
goods, the growth of ranufacture of that country,
under a bill of lading, unsupported by the oath of the
master, and unaccompanied by any invoice, letter of
advice, or other document whatever. The privilege of.farther proof is imparted und'er the sound
discretion of the court, where a foundation is laid for
it, by the papers found on board, and t-he dtepositions
of the captured persons. Neither ',the doeumentary
evidence, nor the examinations in preparatario,afford.
any foundation for it in the present case; siuce they
do not furnish any, the sli'ghtest reason for believing,
that it belongs as claimed. The court would be

CASE

IN T112 SUPREME COURT

1818. 6pening a wide door for f'taud, were it to extend the
TiheFriend. privilege of farther proof t.) such a case; wbich is
scbal. neither - one of lhonest ignorance or mistake It is impossible that the parties should have been ignorant ofwhat both the usage of trade, and the practice of prize
It is impossible that they should
courts, require.
have omitted by mistake, -what could n6t have been
bmitted but by design. The ancient French prize
law, and the prize regulation of many other countries, do absolutely exclude farther proof, and con'
demn, or restore, upon the priginal evider, e only. I
by the more mitigated practice which this court has
adopted, farther proof be sometimes allowed, it is not
as of strict right, but of equitable indulgence, where
the circumbtanceS of the case lay a foundkition for it,
and-the claimants do not forfeit the privilege by their
own misconduct. 3. No additiona! farther proof
ought .to be admitted in this court, under the spedial orders of the circuit court, in the claim of
Mr. Winn, giving him liberty to produce still
farther pioof (in addition to the fartheir proof exhibited to the district court,) in this court, to bu
admitted, or rejected at the discretion of the court,
It is a settled principle of practice, that farther
proofctannot be introduced in this court, unless un7
der the circumstances of the case, it 'ought to have
been ordered in'the court below. Such itthe limitation to the admission of farther proof in the appellate
tribuhal, which has been established by the lords
of appeal ia England and adopted by this court.
If)at has been contended, farther proof ought not to

.OF THE UNITED STATX..
have been admitted in the dirtrict court, the conse1818.
quence follows, that it ought not to be admitted here. The FriendBut the lapse- of time alone ought to 'preclude the schaft.
claimants from this indulgence.
They were fully
apprized. of the nature of the proof which their case
required; they had it in their power to produce. it;
and after two years have elapsed, the necessity of sup,
pressing the frauds which might be consequent upon
such excess of indulgence, demands that' the court
should reject the additional farther proof Pow offered
by them.a
'Jr. Winn'a claim ought to be rejected, because, supposing, his proprietary, interest to be made
out ever so clearly, he is a BritishL born subject, who
-"
offers a claim upon the ground of his being a resident
merchant of Portugal, although at the time of the first
adjudication, he was not domiciled in that country.
The claimant makes and' -affidavit at London, in
June, 1816, in which he describes himself, as f5 of
the city of ]Lisbon, in Portugal, 1oo in London on
mercantile business," sN'ears to the property in him.
Self, and thai at the time of the shipment and cpture, he was a domidiled subject of Portugal, and
had resided in Lisbon for several years preceding the
capture, and until the 12th of Jiirp, 1814," when he
left Lisbon for Bordeaux, and -"has si2ice arrived,"
(without .ying uitden,) "in this city on mercatile
husiness ,, that lie still is a' aomiciied subject of Portugal, &c.
'The native character easily reverts,"
say* $ir W. Scott 5b arid it is so, not merely becaus 9

a The Dos Hermanos, 2 Wh/eat. 76. 93,
b La Virginie,5 Bob. 98.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
he says it, but from the -very nature of things, and
1818.
TheFricnd- tihe gravitating tendcncy, (if the expressiohi may be
schaft. allowed,) which every person'has towards his native
to his native
country. Here ilr. 'Vinn was returnmi
eotintry, shortly after the capture, and we may safely
conclude, arrived there long before the first adjudiafter the
cation. rhere he continued until lon
peace, -without resuming his acquired domicil in Portugal ; and more-than a year zfterwards, we find him
still resider,' it, his native country. He was not in
fransitr to reg,-;n his neutral charicter, like Mr. Pinto
in the case of the Nereide ;a but he was iaz transitu
to regain his native hostile character. He did regain
it, and became a redifitegrated British subject.
That the party must be in a capacity to clavm' at the
time of adjudication, as well as ciflt!ed it restitution
at the time of sailing and capture, is an elementary
principle which lays at the very foundation of the law
of prize. It is alluded to by Sir W. Scott, in a leading case on this sub~ject;b it is evidenced by the anciently established formula of the test affidavit, arid sentence of condemnation, both of which point to the national character of the party at the time of adjudication, as an essential ingredient in determining the fate
of his-claim. Mr. Winn had 'no persona standi injjudicio at the'time of the first adjudication ; iond unless
he bas been re-habilitated by the subsequent intervention of peace, and restored to his capacity to claim,
by ,a species of the jfts postliminii, his native character
still remains fixed upon him, and his property must be
condemned by relation back to the time of the first

a 9 .Cranch,338.

b The Hersteidr, I Rob. 97.

OF TH1E UNITED STATMS,
adjudication, to which 'period every thing must be I818.
referred. 5. But even the Portuguese domicil of
"eed
Mr. Winn will not avail to avert the condemnation
chaft.
of.his property, because his nati e character is pres5rved, notwithstanding his residence and trade in
Portugal. As the native domicil dasily reverts, so
also, it may with truth be affirmed, that it is with
difficulty shaken off. Every native subject of a belligfrent power, is,primafacie, an enemy of the other
belligerent. To repel this presumption, he m ust
show, not merely that he has acquired a personal domicil in a neutral country, but that, under all the circumstances of the case, he is unaffected with the
hidstile character c-f- his native domicil. The political relations between Great Britain and -Portugal,.
completely recognize the privileged national character of British subjects in Portugal, which is preserved to themi, in a mannei anal]gous to that of European merchants in the East, who are held to take
their national character from the, factory to which
they are attached, and from the European goveinment under whose protection they carry on their
trade.a Thus, also, Sir W. Scott states, in the Henrick and Mariab that British subjects resident in
Portugal retain 'their native national character in
spite of their Portuguese domicil, even, in the estimation of -he enemy himself, (France,) and that they
exercise'an active jurisdiction over their own countrymen settled there.. This peculiar immiscible character of British subjects in Portugal is strengthena The Indian Chief, 3 Rob. e.
VOL. III.
5

b 2 Rob.,,O.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
ed by the circumstance of that country having, been,
from :he earliest periods of her national existence,
"
The Friend.
the ally of Great Britain ; and something more than
schaft.
a mere common ally, .s Sir W. Scott. observes, a
the Flad Oyen.a The case of the Danaos, cited in
a note -to the Nayade,b in which the lords of appeal
allowed a British born subject resident in the English
factory at Lisbon, the benef.t of a Portuguese character, so far as. to legalize his. trade with Holland,
then at war with Ergland, but not with Portugal,
must be considered as a departure from principle,
and imputed- to some motive of national or ccmmercial policy, operating on the lords at the time. Certain it is, that the reasons on wh'ch Sir W. Scott
grounds the opinion expressed by him, are entitled
to much more weight than is the mere authority of
of the lords, unsupported by any reasons whatever.
This court, which is the supreme appellate prize tribunal of this country, will scrutinize carefully all the
precedents settled in the British prize courts, (since
the United States ceased to be a portion of the British empire,) and will regard rather the reason than
the autlwrity on which tLey are f'un:ed. Trace
the treaties between Great Britain and Pqrtugal, and
it vill be found that they impress something like a
provincial dependent on Portugil, and an independent character on British snbects residftt in that
country, Itis to the.lights of history that we must
resort to account for compacts so singularly unequal.
13efore the subjugation of Poitugal by Spain, the an1818.

a I &b. 133,

b 4 Bobe10.

OF THE UNITED STATES.'

27

cient Portuguese, kings granted special immunities to
1818.
English fnerchants settled in their dominions. The
.. The Friendwant of capital in a poor and comparatively barba- schafen
rous country, made it necessary to encourage the establishment of foreign merchants in Jactories, which
were essential to their protection, on account of the
difference of language, manners, religion, .and laws,
almost (if not quite) as great as between Christendoin and the Countries of the East.a On the restoration of the monarchy by the house of Braganza,
in 1640, John IV. was supported by Charles I. of
England, who was the first prince that acknowledg'ed the vrew Portuguese monarch, and entered into a
treaty with him. Urider the English Commonwealth,
this treaty was renewed by Oliver Cromwell, whose
energy in maintaining the foreign influence and commercial interests of his country is so well known.
Charles If married the Infanta of Portugal; confirmed all other treaties; 'and made a new and perpetual one with Alfonzo VL Undei his mediation
and guarantee, Spain acknowledged the independence of Portugal ; which Great Britain has since
constantly maintained, by succouring Portugal against
her enemies. In return for a friendship so ancient,
so unalterable, and so beneficial, Portugal has lavished upon the subjects of Great Britain the. most precious,.mmercial privileges; and for them, has even
relaxed her commercial monopol,
and opened 'to
them the sanctum sanctbrum of her possessions in
the two Indies. These privileges have been uniforma 2 PoR~kwail'sJpcg.of Tr

and Cormftrcee arti nIealit.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1818.

ly revived and renewe4 in every successive treaty
which has been - formed between the two countries,

e
The Frieidad may be enumerated under the following heads.
schaft.
First. Prizes made by British subjects, from nations
at peace with Portugal, may be carried into the Portuguqse ports for' adjudication, and condemned whilst
lying there.a If the ports .of .Portgal can be so far
considered as British, as that - British prizes may be
carried inti them, and conlemned, surely they must
be considered such in respect to British subjects r&siding and trading thlire. The rule of reciprocity, or
amicable retaliation may be ex3tended to them (being
tnemio,) though it may not be extended by the Court
to the si.bjects of Portugal, (lecause they arefriend:,)
and the judicial department cannot reciprocate to, or
retaliate on them, the unjust proceedings of their nxtion. Second, Portugal is bound; by fre;aty, to deliver
up British vessels captured and brought into her ports
by the enemies of Great Britain, but her friendsJ.#
Third. British subjects resident in Portugal are exerupt from ihe ordinary jurisdiction of the country;
and are imenoble only to the judge- conservator appointed by-themselves, who has cognizance of all
civil cause in which they are concerned ; and the
ordinary authorities of the co-umtry cannot proceed
against them in criminal cases, without a petission
in writinr from the judge conservator, exopt only
.where the'offender is taken flagrante deticto.c Fourtfa The Henrick and Maria, 4R.b. 50.
b 2 Chalm Ps Col. Treat. 279.
c 2 Chaliner's271. Trewtyof 1674,art.7. 15.

3$10. art. 10.

Treatyof

OF THE UNITED.STATES.
1818.
The Portuguese courts of probate, or orphan's courts,
have no authority whatever, in the distribution of the
The Friendeffects of British -subjects deceased,- in Portugal, but -chaft.
the same is referred to the ".udge conservator, under
whose superintendence" administrators are appointed

by a majority of the British merchants resident in
the place,a Fifth. British subjects in Portugal, have
the privilege of being paid with d2ebts due to them by

Portuguese subjects,, whose property may be seized
Sixth.
by the inquisition, or the kiiig's exchequer.b
They are exempted from the operation of the funda-

mental law of tho Portuguese monarchy, which has
immemorially excluded every other religion Ifom
Portugal, except the Roman Catholic; and'the- are
permitted to enjoy their own religious priciples an'
worship as Protestants c Seventlh. This favoured nation are also exempted from all the monopolies, and
other exclusive privileges, with which the internal
*nJ external cowiperce of Portugal and her colonies
are cramped and restrained and to which Portuguese subjects are exposed. The only exception to
this immunity is the crown farm, for the exclusive
sale of certain precloas productions.d The treaty of
1810, now subsisting, confirms and renews all the privileges and immunities granted by former treaties, or
municipal regulations,, except onlr the stipulation
that free ships should mhke free goods. These privileges and inmmunities segregate British residents in

a 2 Ohalrners.271. lb. 28 1.
c OWhalins, 265.

b e Chlners, 260.
d Treaty of 1810, art. 2.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT'
Portugal fromithe general society, and from the commercial, political, and ecclesiastical regulttions of the
The Friendthe
country. They distinguish those residents from
schaft.
other inhabitants, as much as the merchants of Christendom are distinguished from the natives in the oriental countries. The privilegced character of Christians, established in those countries, dep~ends as much
upon the conventional law, as 4- es thakt of British
subjects settled in Portugal. The treaties and capitulations between the powers &f Christendom and
'the Porte secuxe to the subjects of the forrmer, privileges not more extensive than those which are now
enjo',ed, and have been enjoyed from time immemnorial, by-the British in Portugal.a It is true. that by
the treaty of 1810, art 26. his Britannic majesty re-nounces the right of establishing factories or corporations of merchants in the Portuguese dominions, but
there is a proviso, that this concession ("shall not deprive the subjects of his Britannic majesty, residing
wvithin the dominions of Portugal, of !tie fdl enjoyiment,
as individuals engagcd in conmcrce, of any rf those ridhts
and privileges mAhich they did or might posses.cs as members
of incorporated commercial Wdics ; -.rd, also, that the
trade and commerce carried on by British subjects
shall not be restricted, annoyed; or othei wise 'affected
by any favours within the dominions of Portigal; "
and in the case of Mr. Fremeam., the lords of appeal
in England decided, that the claimant was to be considered as a Dutchman, because he carried on trade at
Smyrna, under the protection of the Dutch Consul, a17
1818.

a Veli, Sur ' Ordon. 234, 235. 2 Chambers, 436,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

31,

1818.
thogh it was proveed in that gentleman's case, that
the
that
and
Smyrna,
-t
factory
Dueh
no
there was
The Friend- sehuft.
Dutch merchants there are not incorporated.a
Mr. Gaston, for the respondents and claimants.
I. On the first point the claimants have to encounter a difficulty purely .technical, which dannot pretend to a .foundation in justice, and which, indeed,
aims to pievent a decision upon the merits of the
controversy. If this difficulty can nelher be sirmounted nor escaped without a vjcfation of the established principles and rules of jurisprudence, the claimants mu;t submit -ithout repining. But it will be impossible for the friends to the repose of nations, WAd to
the impartial admiristration ofjustice in.the courts of
belligerents, not to regre', that the highest tribunal in
our land should find itself so fettered with forms, as to
be unable to do what shall appear to them to be right ;
as to be compe!le.1 to condemn as prize of war what the
inferior tribunals shall have restored, (in their opinion
justly,) as neutral property. The captors' objection
is founded on a literal exposition of the decree of
August, 1514, inconsistent with its obvious meaning.
However desirable it may be that precision should be
used in drawing up the decrees of judicial tricunals,
yet the infirmity of human nature, and the imperfection of human language, alike demand that these decisions should not be perverted by verbal criticism
from their stbstantial import. No one can doubt the

a Cited in the Indian Chief, 3 Rob. 32. lb. App. Note No I. 20,.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
meaning of the sentence of August, 1814. No one
can hesitate to, say, that it designed not to ,ondemn
The Frk-ndeclaft., such parts of the cargo as were evidenced by bills of
lading addressed 'to consignees, special'y named in
them. This design appears as distinely as though it
had been expressed in the most formal terms. The
court exempts from u:ondemnation, and reserves for
farther proof, all the cases of bills of lading delivera-"
ble to shipper or order, which are specially endorsed
to consignees. Afortiori, it could not but exempt
from condemnation *.1pse where the bills of lading are
addressed to consriees specially named in the bills
of lading. It is the order of the English shipper for
the derrver" of the goods to the Portuguese consignee,
that raises the doubt where resides the proprietary
interest; whether in the shipper or in the consignee. And kinquestionably the probability 'that such interest in the consignee is, at least, as strong where the
consignment is original, and on the face of the bilL of
]ading, as where it is made by, an endorsement of te
bill. The sentence of August, 1814, which is insisted on as condemning*the property in question, co',dd
not have that effect until it was completed. A blank
was purposely left for the insertion of the parts of the
cargo intended to be condemnfed. Until this blank
-was filled up, or sorpething done by the cuurt equally
definitive and precise, the sentence was necessarily
imperfect, both in substance and in form. This imperfection continued as to the district court until Augotterm, 1816,andIthen the property in question was
not only not condemnedi but ordered to be restored.
affirmancv of the sentence of August, 1814. by
-The.
1818.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1818.
the circuit court was in general terms.- It cannot,
therefore, have any other effect than if the sentence The Friendaffirmed h!ad been repeated in todidem terbis. The schaft.
sentence of condemnation, therefore, of the circuit
court of May, 1815, was incomplete; and remained
so until November term, 1816, when ift'direct terms
it was declared that it should not apply to the present
claims. Whatever informalities or errors of proceeding may have been had below, yet as the property to which the claims apply is still in the custody
of the law, and the whole case in i4ation to it is now
beforp this court, all these errors a'nd irregularities
will be so corrected, as to make the final decdiiu of
the controversy, and disposition of the property, conform to the rights of the parties litigant. 'Whether
the district court, in August, 1814, did or did not condemn this part of the cargo; vhether it did or did not
decree that farther proof shoulA be heard in relation
jo %t;yet if it ought~not td have been condemned---if
farther proof ought to have. been received in relation
to it-this 'court will receive such farther proof.
2. But, it is contended, that whatever might have
been the meaning of the sentence df the district court
of August, 1814, affirmed in the circuit cotirt in May,
1815, it ought to have condemned the goods in question, and not to have let in the claimants to farther
proof. And this position is founded on an assertion
that the bills of lading, No. 108, 109, 141, 122, and
118, furnish rro evidence whatever of proprietary Aa
terest in "the consignees, and on -the apprehenfon
that the admission of farther proof in cases so circumstanced might destroy all security for belligerent
VOL. III.
6

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

84

rights. And, does a bill of lading furnish no evi1818.
dence, not even presumptive, of proprietary interest
'
The Friend-.
andl such was
chaft. in the consignee? It is understood,
the St. Joze
of
case
the
in
court
this
the language- of
prize court,
the
of
Indiano,a that in general the rules
as to the vesting of property, are the same with those
of the common law. Now, "every authority which
can be adduced, from th6 earliest period' of time down
to the present hour, agree, that at law, the property
does -pass as absolutely and as effectually, (by a bill
of lading,) as if the goods had been actually delivered
6
into the hands of the consignee." b "If upon a bill
of lading," (says Lord Hardwicke, in Snee v. Prescott,c) between merchants residing in different countries, the goods'be shipped and consigned to the principal expressly in the body of the bill of lading, that
vests the property in the consignee." The right of
the consignor to stop'goods in transitu is not founded
on any presumed property in the consignor, but nccessarily supposes the property to be in the collsignee ; for, "it is a contradiction in terms, to say a
man has a right to stop his own goods in transitu."
It is a right founded wholly on equitable principles,
"which owes its origin to courts of equity-and, the
question is not whether the property has vested under
the bill of lading, for that is cler ; but whether on
the insolvency of' the consignee, who has not paid for
the goods, the consignor can countermand the LonaIWheal.!212.
1 Per Buller, J. in Dor. Proc. Lickbarrow v. Mason, 6
East. 23. Note.
c I

k. 245.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1818.
signment, Qr, in other words, devest the property
which was vested in the consignee."a Unless, there-Te ed
fore, a totally different rule, as to the vesting of pro- schaf
perty, is to be asserted in a court of prize from that
which is established at law, a bill of lading absolutely vests the property in the consigneei and, of bourse,
is the appropriate and definite evidence of his proprietary interest. But, it is said, these bills of lading
do not express the shipment to be for the account and
risk, of the consignees, and state that the freight has
been paid in London, and, "1of course, by tthe consignors." Surely it is not seriously contended, that
the omission to declare the shipment to be on account
of the consignees, and the declaration that the freight
has been paid in London, and, "1.of boqrse, by the
consignors," oould haye been designe41 to secure to
the consignors the right of stopping in transitu?
This right is founded on principles. of, equity which
give it a direct application to 9hipments 'Made on account of the consignees, and which have no connection whatever with the legal consequences of the payment of freight. Let us see, however, what inferences may be fairly drawn from the peculiarities
which are noticed in the bills of lading. --They omit
to state that the shipment is on account and riA of
the consignees. Shall we thence infer that the shfpment is on account and risk of the consignors ?-LThis is not the inference of the law. If the bill of
lading vests the property in the consignee, he, of
oourse, sustains the peril of the shipment, unless there
be an agreement to the contrary. It would be a sina 6 East. 28. Note.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

36

gular absurdity, indeed, if the law, upoin.the instrupresured that the consignee was the owner,
The Friendschaft. and ,at'the same time jerred that he did not bear
the ordinary risks of ownership. Where the shipment is on account and at the risk of the consignor,
and not of the consignee, there it may be proper to
express the fact, 'because it is opposed to the legal
presumption-But -that an omission to state, what
without statement is presumed, c..n be converted into
an argument against the presumption-will be an instance of intellectda. dexterity, rather fitted to surprise
than to satisfy the inquirer after truth A bill of lad.
ing evidences an agreement made by the master with
the shipper for the delivery of the goods to the consignee. His undertaking is simply to carry the
goods for the stipulated price to the consignee. He
knows not that the consignee is to sustain the risk
ef the shipment-He cannot, therefore, with propriety, aver it in his contract. If, indeed, the consignor is to sustain the risk, and wishes this fact to
be stated in the master's undertaking, then has he
the full evidence which warrants the insertion of such
a clause in the bill of lading. And, accordingly, such
Bills of 'lading ordinarily
is the mercantile usage.
express account and risk when they are nbt thE account and risk of the consignee. But it is otherwise
are documents 1Sassing be..
with invoices-These
tween the parties, to the shipment, and contain the
declaration of the consignor to the consignee. These,
therefore, declare, however it may be, at whose account and hazard the shipment is made. The other
peculiarity noticed in the bills of lading is, that the
1818.

'

'ment,

37

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1818:
freight is paid. in Londbn, and, "of course, by the
nd[
consignors."1 I -his edrollary, thus summarily de-Th
duped, of a payment by the.'ihippers, mean no more scaft,
thapi a payment by the consignees through the sippers as their immediate agents at London, it may be
admitted as probable, and, at all events, as harmless.
But if it meana payment by the shippers- as principals, or on their own account, then it is denied to follow from the proposition which it claims as its premises. But the peculiarities, thus exarnined, are relied on -as constituting a support on which to re t
the doctrine contained in the cases of Davi*s, et al., .v.
James,a and Moore v.' Wilsn,b which are cited, (as
it would seem,) to prove, 'that where the consignor
pays the freight, the bill of lading does not vest the
property in the consignee ; It is not material to in-quixe how far these cases wotild now stand the test
of a strict scrutiny. It 'iibut doing justice, however,
to.the gteat men who decided them, to say, -thatthey
establish no such doctrine, Lord Mansfield e6kpressly declares, that he does not proceed at all bn the
ground of proprietorship, but, simply on the agreement of the carrier. And Lord Kenyon, in Dawes
v. Peck,c stat'es, that the doctrine which they furnish
is no more, than, tliat the consigpior may bring an actibn for breach of contract against the carrier on his
agreement, where the consignor is to be at the expensoe
of the carriage, "where he stands.in the character of
an iniurer to the .consignee for the safe arrival df the
goods." It is alleged, that if the interest in these claims
a 5 Burr. 2680.

S1

r. 8R.
659.

. R. 330.

OASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
were bona fide neutral, if is incredible, that the in1818.
Te'F'edFriend- voices and letters would not have accompiani~d the
The
shipment. Is it r ot equally propable, where the shipschaft.
menk is not on neutral account, or partly on neutral
and partly on hostile account, and there is no attempt
,atdeception, that it would have been accompanied with
letters and invoices? Yet in the vast multitude of the
shipments clearly on enemy account, made by this
ship, and which have been cofidemned without a controversy, there is not one in ,ten thus accompanied.
The packet sails between London and Lisbon with
a regularity, certainty: and frequency, little short of
what takes place in transmissions by mail. It is the
great and established medium ofconveyance, established by treaty stipulations, for passengers and letters.
Is it strange, therefore, that all the communications
between the shipper and the owner of the goods, except a copy of the bill of lading, (which at once evidences the property, and is directory to the master,)
should havebeen sent by this certain and regular and
official'medium of conveyance ? If duplicates of these
communications had accompanied the shipments in
question, this unusual caution might have been construed into a proof of guilt, and these' additional evidences of neutral proprietorship stigmatized as the
badges of ffaud. ,But it is alleged, also, that the bills
9flading are not verified. The only individual of the
crew examined by the commisgioners, is the master,
and he supports the bill of lading as far as can be expected of a carrier-master. In answer to the 13th
interrogatory, he declares that the bills of lading are
not false or colourable - and in answer to the 20th,

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1818.
that he presumes the goods shipped belong to the
respective consignees. The right of belligerents are The Friendnot the only rights deserving of the notice, and schaft.
entitled to the protection of the courts of prize. Though
human testimony may sometimes be corrupt, and often
fallacious, it is by human testimony alone, that human tribunals can hope to eviscerate the Iruth. Condemnation should take place only when the fact of
enemy's property hag, been ascertained; and where
that fact is doubted, proof should be resorted to.
These principles have received the countenance of all
those engaged in the administration of public- law,
whom the civilized ivorld (cruisers excepted) regard
with reverence. They will be found stated with
simplicity and perspicuity in the famous British answer to the Prussian memorial, and communicated to
the American government in 1794, as the basis-of the
proceedings in British courts of Admiralty ; and which"
has been'adopted by this court as the substratum of
it8 own conduct in cases of 'prize.-3. When it is rer
collected that the claimants have sought to furnish
proof, Woth ftom the port of shipment and the port of
destinati 6 n, from London and from Lisbon; that
during the war, the means of procuring such proof
froma Europe and bringing it to the United States were
unfrequent and uncertain ; and that delaY will not.'
be occasioned by listening to the additionql proof now
tendered, it is believed that the court will not refuse
to hear it. The case of the Bernon, (a shows that the
court, after receiving farther proof, may order additional proof, if requisite, to enlighten its judgment ;
(a) 1 Rob. 88.

CASES IN THE SIPREME COURT
and, the case of the Franes (a) is an authority in
~p d POint, that the arpellati 'ourt may order idditional
schaft. proof, if the farther proof on which the cause has been
hlVrdI elow is defective. May not the appellate court
tnen bear it, if to prevent injurious delays it be prepared in anticipation ?-4. The only inquiries of fact,
as to the ,haxcter of the claimant, accoidin to the
rules laid down by Sir William Scott, in tho Hersteldei,(b) are, was hat the, time 'of seizure entitled to
restitution; and is he, at"the time of adjudication, in a
capacity to claim The present capacity of the claimHis right to restitution must be
ojt is without &ubt.
tested by his national ckarater at the time of seizure,
.on the 10th of May, 1814. But the objection, is found-ed qntirely on 1 misconception of the. meaning of tlie
affitlavits. Whether the facts testified be true or not,
must depend ou the veracity of the deponents. if
they are to be aelieved, they prove a residence of the
.,!aimani qs, an estatlished meichant .at Lisbon, for
several years pr eceding the deizure, and up to the
1'2th, of June ther~tftqr- the leaving of Lisbon on
merzantitebusiness, anirn revertendi, o" the 12th of
June, 1814, and the continuance of his domicil, resi'dence, ana establishment there, and a continued purpose of actually returning thither, up to the date of the
dffidavits.-A5. It'must be conceded, that for commercial purpose§, among the civilized nations \ of Europe
and the West, the national character of an individual
is-ordinarily that of the country in which he reside.
No positioiis better established than this, that if a perir
son goes to another country, and there engages
1818.

~l

"q) 8 Cranch. 308. 353.

(b) I Rob. 97.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

41
trade and takes up his residence, he is by the law of 1818.
nations, to be considered as a merchant of that coun-The Friend
try. This general rule applies to the case of British schaft.
merchants domiciled in Portugal. They owe aplegiance to the government, are protected by its laws
mingle intimately with the natives in all the social
and domestic relations, cherish Portuguese industry,
increase Portuguese capital, and contribute to the revenue of Portugal. It is true that a very intimate.
commercial connexion has long subsisted between
Portugal and Britain, and that the subjects of the lat-.
ter are encouraged to settle in the Portuguese dominions, by many advantageous regulations infa your of
their trafic. But it- is by no means true that any
British authority is exercised in Portugal, or that
Portugal can be viewed -s the dependent province of
Britain. First. There is no authority for the assertion thatthe ports of Portugal are open in war for
the adjudication of British captures made from nations
at peace with Portugal. An irregular practice for
merly obtained to that effect, to which Sir Win. Scott
alludes in the Hearick andlMaria; bat it was sanctioned neither by treaty nor decree. The' treaty of
1810 is utterly silent-on that head, and it is a
matter of notoriety, that on the breaking out of the
late wtr between the United States and Great Britain, a royal decree was issued, forbidding cruisers of belligerants from bringing their prizes into the
dominions of Portugal, which was enforced throughout the war. Second. Portugal is not bound by treaty to deliver up British vessels brought into her ports
which have been taken by the enemy of Britain.
VOL. III. '
7

42-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

The 30th article of the present treaty limits the obli
1818.
g
gation to the restitution of propeity plundered by
The FriendS
pirates. And this obligation is reciprocal. Third.
schaft.
Britkth residents are not exempt from the jurisdiction
They have the priviof the Portuguese tribunals.
lege indeed of choosing from anong the commissionto
edjudges or he reatm one who is to' be presented
the king for his approbation as ther judge conservator, and who, if approved, is so appointed. The authority of this judge, (-vho is usually selected because
reaches
of his knowledge of the English language,)
commercial
of
"instance
first
the
only to the trial in
disputes brought before him by British merchants, and
is ever subordinate to the higher tribunals of justice established in the x'ealm, who, in all cases, possess over him an appellate jurisdiction. The privilege is not peculiar to the British, but is extended
to every friendly European nation. Fourth. The
provision of the treaty of 1654, relative to the aprpointment of administrators to British residents dying
intestate, is not reiewed in the treaty of 1810. There
is in lieu of it a rceiprocal stipulation, (Art. 7th.) for
the disposal, by the subjects of both nations, of their
personal property by testament. Fifth. The provision for applying the effects seized by the Inquisition
to the payment of debts due the British creditor,
is but a dictate-of justice, and probably places these
creditors on the 'same footing with native creditors.
It is not found in the treaty of 1810. Sixth. There
is nothing extraordinary in the mutual stipulation for
the tolerance, by each, of the religion of the subjects
of the other, as- far as it may consist- with the laws of
unusual
their respective realms. Seventh. Nor is it

OP THE UNITED STATES.
to grant to the subjects of other nations, an exemp-

tion from monopolies obligatory on native merchants.
It is perfectly familiar to the court, that under the
British treaty of 1795, such an exemption was accorded to American merchants from the monopoly of
the British East India Company. And in the treaty of 1810 it will be seen that the stipulations are reciprocal. There is much difficulty in ascertaining the
precise nature of the imimunities.*njoyed by British
merchants in Portugal, at the date of the treaty of
1810, because the practice had been to grant them
occasiopally by alvaras. These are temporary proc.
lamations, which have effect, only, for a year
and a day. Itis -very certain that some privileges
heretofore granted, were not then possessed. For
instance, the alvara of 1717 exempts Englisbmen
from certain taxes to which. the natives are liable, while the 7th article of the treaty of 1810,
provides that they shall be liable to the same taxes,
(and no other) as are imposed on the- natives of Por'tugal. The probability is, that the most important of
these immunities are especially enumerated in the
treaty. It is unnecessary, however, to proceed further with this examination. Enough appears to show
that the attempt to take the case of British merchants
resident in Portugal, out of the general rule applied
to domicil among civilized nations, whatever admi"
,ration may be due- to its boldness, cannot receive the
sanction of an enlightened court. The analogy be-,
tween such merchants and Europeans in Turkey,
who, there, neither sustain their original chazacter,
nor take the character of the people' within whose
'territories they sojourn, but owe their -name and -oli-

1818.
"'hdsh ft.

44

CASES IN THE SUPREME .OURT

iical existence -to the factory and association iander
1818.
protection they carry on a precarious traffickFhdhse
schaft, who are viewed as a people e*empt from Turkish
dotiiniorya and who never mix with the ntives in any
unsocial or domestic concern-is too forced and
applicaarguments
Any
natural to 'afford a basis for
ble to them both. No authority is cited in support of
this objection, other than a remarc of Sir William
unScott in the HenViek and Maria, which must,.be
there
is
He
derstood secundumn subjectam -materiam.
in Enspeaking of the validity of a condemnation
gland of an enemy's ship, carried into 'Lisbon or Leghorn-into the port of a' very close and intimate ally.
But in opposition to it there are great authorities.
at
The case of the Armenian merchants resident
Madras under special privileges, who were ievertheless, subjected to the general rule of domicil, bears
directly upon it.b The case of the Naynde, which
applies the commercial rule of domicil to Prussian
merchants in Portugal, also bears upon it.c The case
of the Danaosd decided in March, 1802, at a time
when the objection was stionger than at present, is
directly in point, and of the highest prize tribinal in
England. In the St. Joze Indianoe it was expressly
decide4 b- one of the learned judges of this court,
that British residents in the dominions of Portugal
take the character of their domicil, and as to all third
parties, are to be deemed Portuguese subjects. This
decision -was acquiesced in by the counsel for the
captors. In the case of the Antonio Johanna, such
a See Consuller Certificate in the Herman, S Rob. Appen.
L 295.
b The Angelique, 3 Rob. Appen. B. 994.
c 4 Rob. 1206. d4 Rob.210. "e 2 Gallis. 268. 292-

OF THE UNITED STATES.
was considered the settled rule;. and, accordingly, re- 1818.
stitution was made by this court to Mr. Ivers, a re-ThF d
*ident British merchant, at St. Michael's,' one of the schaft.
irm of Burnet & Ivers, of the moiety claimed in his
behalf as a Portuguese subjecta
The counsel who
now advances this'objection, declined then to bring it
forward.
Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL Ielivered the opinion of the court, and after stating,' e facts, proceed-Feb.
ed as follows:
The appellants contend, 1st. That the sentence
pronounced by the district court in Aughst, .1814,
-which was affirmed by the circuit court in May, 1815,
-condemned finally, the' packages for which a decree
'of restitution was afterwards made, and that the subsequent proceedings were irregular, and in a case not
before the court. 2dly., That upon the merits, far"
ther proof ought not to haxe been ordered, and acondemnation ought to have taken place.
On the first point, it is contended, that these goods,
having been comprehended in invoices not endorsed,
nor accompanied' with letters of advice, are within
the very terms of the sentence of condemnation, and
must, consequently, be considered as condemned.
The principle on which this argument was overruled in the court below, is to be found in its sentence.
The district court, in its decree of 1814, did not intend
to confine its description of the property condemned,
to the general terms used in thatLdecree, but did intend
to enumerate the particular bills to which those
a I Wlteat" 159.

46
1818.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
terms should apply. This is conclusively proved by

The Friend reference to the siibsequent intended enumeration,
which is followed by a blank, obviously left for that
=chaft.
enumeration. ' Had the enumeration been inserted as
was intended, the particular specification, would undoubtedly have controlled the general description
which refers to it. The unintentional and accidental
omission to fill this blank, leaves the decree imperfect
the
in a very essential point ; and if the case, and
supply
whole context of the decree can satifactorily
of
'this defect, it ought to be tihpplied. This court is
opinion, that no doubt can be entertained respecting
the bills with which the district court intended to ,fill
up the blank. 'he condemnation of shipments evidenced by bills of lading, with blani endorsements, or
without endorsement, could apply to those only which
required 6ndorsement, or which were in a situation to
admit of it. These were the bills which were made
deliverable to shipper, or to the order of the shipper.
Bills addressed to a merchant, residing in Lisbon,
could not be endorsed by such merchant, until the vessel carrying them should arrive at Lisbon. Consequently, such bills could not be in the view of the
judge, when condemning goods, because the bills of Iading.were not endorsed; and, had he completed his
decree, such bills could have been inserted in it. No
conceivable reason exists, for admitting to farther
proof, the case of a shipment, evidenced by a bill of lading, made deliverable to shipper, or order, and endorsame
sed to a merchant, residing in Lisbon; and at the
proof,
farther
to
time condemning, without admitting
lading,
the same'shipment, if evidenced by a bill of
'

OF THE UNITED STATES.
made deliverable, in the first instance, to the Lisbon
1818.
merchant. No. 108, for example, is made deliverable The'Friendat Lisbon, to Segaiior Jose Ramos de Fonseco, and is -sehaft.
consequently not endorsed. It 'is contended, that
these goods are not condemhed. Btit had the bill been
made deliverable, to shipper, or order, and endorsed
to Segnior Jose Ramos de Fonseco, farther proof
would have been admitted.
Nothing but absolute necdssity could suslain a con,struction, so obviously ahsurd. This court is unanimously of opinion, that justice ought not to be diverted
from its plain course, by circumstances so susceptible
of explanation, that error is impossible,; and ttat,
when the decree was returned to the district court of
North Carolina, with the blank unfilled, that court did
right in zonsidering the specification intended to have
been inserted, and for which the blank was left, as a
substantiie and essential part of the decrec, still capable of being supplied, and in acting upon, and explaining the decree, as if that specification had been originally inserted.
This impediment being removed, the cause will be
considered on its merits.
It is contended, with great earnestness, that farther
proof ought not to have been ordered, and t hat the
goods which have been r,.3tored, ought to' have been
condemned as prize of war. In support of this proposition, the captors, by their counsel, insist. that the
rights of belligerents would be sacrificed, should a mere
bill of lading, consigning the goods to a neutral, unac-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT'

48

companied by letter of advice or invoice, let in the neu-

1818;
Th

d tral claimant to farther proof.

The Friendschaft.

It is not pretendedd,-hat such a bill would of itself
A bill of la- justify an order for rititution ; but it certainly gves
h
oftato receive
oa right
"
consign' person to whom it is addressed,
ding,
goods the
ing the
tl e
that the
proof,
for
foundation
the
lays
and
goods
to a neutral
but unaccom-property is in him. It cannot be believed, that, admitpanied by an

invoice or let- ting farther proof in the st$iience of an invoice or letter
ter of advice.,
issufficientev-of advice, endangers the fair rights of belligerelnts.
idence to lay a
papers are so easily prepared, that no fraudufor These
foundation
.'
the introduction of farther lent case would be withoift them. It is not to be cred-ited, that a shipper in London, consigning his own
proo.

of
goods to a merchant in Lisbon, with the intention
passing them on a belligerent cruizer as neutral, would
omit to furnish a letter of advice and invoice, adapted
it
to the occasion. There might be double papers, but
framed,
easily
is not to be imagined, that papers so
would not be prepared in a case of intended deception.
It is unquestionably extraordinary, that the same
goods should not also carry
inference
y invoices, and letters of advice. But the
by thee
clar onthe which the counsel for the captors would draw from
tral shippers this fact, does not seem to be warranted by it. It
Effectof, ie

suspicion or
ation
ofpapers.
spoli' vessel which carries the
proofof

conducting bo,sfider.

might induce a suspicion, that papers had been'thrown
overboard ; but in the total absence of evidence, that
this fact had occurred, the court would not be justified
in coming positively to such a conclusion. Between
London and Lisbo'n, where the voyage is short and
the packets regular, the bills of lading and invoices
it
might be sent by regular 'conveyances. But were
a
carrying
even admitted that a belligerent master

OF THE UNITED STATES.

49

cargo chiefly belligerent, bad, thrown papers over- .1818.
board, this fact ought not to preclude a neuqal claim-T'
dFriendexibiingThe
fom exhibiting
ant, to whom no fraud is impjxable, 'Al,
from
schaft.
proof of property. In the case before the court, no
attempt was made t6 disguise any part of the cargo.
By far the greater portion of it was confessedly British, and was-condemned withouta claim. The whole
transaction with respect to ti cargo, is plain and open;
and was, in the opinion of this court, a clear case for
farther ptoof.
The farther proof in the-claims 108, 109, 141, and
122, consists of affidavits tW the proprietary interest
of the claimants; of copies of letters, in some instances ordering the goods, and in others advising of their
shipment; and of copies of invoices-all properly authenticated. This proof was .satisfactory, and the order for restitution made upon it was the necessary consequence of its admission.a
a].f. Bonnernant in his comn- forme. Toute ne sont pasd'abmentary upon De Habreu, solue necessite; comme elles
makes the following remarks: sont correlatives, elles se sup"Parmi les pieces dont un .pleent entre elle et peuvent
navire do~it etre pourvu pour etre supplees par d'autres equi.
]a regularite ddsa navigation, valentes. Mais si l'on en deil en est de deux sortes; -es couvre d'autres qui les demenunes serient a prouver la neu- tent, s'il se rencontre des doutralite du navire, les autres eel- ble expeditions on autres docuin de la cargaison."
mens capable d'ebranlerla con
- Celles relatives a la car- fiance, la presomption defraude
gaison sont les connoissments, • se change des-lors en certitude,
les polices de chargement, les on ne presume pas simplement
factures. Toutes ces pieces le navire ennemi, on le supfont pleine et entiere foi, si pose.
elles sont en bonne et due
"La preuve de ]a neutraVOL. III.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

80

In the claim to No. 118, made for Joseph Winn, the
proof was not so conclusive. It consisted ol
The Friendthe affidavit of the claimant to his proprietary inschaft.
terest, and to his character as a domiciled Portuguese subject, residing and carrying on trade in
Lisbon. The affidavit was made in London on the
29th day of June,. 1815, but states the claimant to
have been at his fixed' place of residence in Lisbon,
at the time of the capture, where he had resided
for several years preceding that event, and where he
continued until the 12th of June, 1814, when he left
1818.

Sfarthe'r

lite est toujours a la charge du
capture.
" Cette preuve ne peut et
ne doit resulter que des paers trouves a bord ;(I) toute
autre indirecte ne pout etre roque ni pour ni contre, c'est la
disposition de l'art. 11. du. reglement du 26 Juillet, 1773,
et des precedens qui veulent
qu'on n'ait egard qu'aux pieces
irouvees a bord, et non a cellos
qui pourroienf etre produites
apres la prise.
C'estau capteur a prouver
&C
ensuite l'i-iegularitedes pieces
a les discuter de la maniero
qu'il juge convenable pouren

demontrer la fraude et la simulation.
,,Quantaux irregularitesque
peuvent contenir certaine pieces de bord, ce 'est pas a des
omissions de forme usitees que
les tribunaux doivent s'attacher
c'est par l'ensemble des pieces,
et surtout par ]a verite des
choses qui en resulte, qu'ils
doivent se determiner; l'experience n'a que trop demontre
que ]a plus grande regularite
dans les papiers mas quoit souvent la fraude etla simulation,
uihniaprecautiodolus." Bonnemant's T'anslatims of de Hab.
rett, Tom. 1.p. 28.

(1) The French prize practice not allowing farther proof, but acquitting or condemning upon the original evidence consisting of.the papers
found on board and the depositions of the captors and captured. The
only exception to this rule is, where the papers have been spoliated by thb
captors, or lost by shipwreck, and other inevitable accidents. Valin,
Traite des Prises, ch. 15. n. 7. But the Spanish law admits of farther
proofin the case ofdoubts arising upon the original evidence. De Habreu part . oh. 15.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1818.
Lisbon for Bordeaux, and has since, arrived in London
'
on mercantile business. That he is still a domiciled "he Friendschaft.
Lisbon,
to
riturn
to
intending
Portugal,
of
subject
where his commercial establishment is maintained, and
his business carried on by his clerks until his return.
To a copy of this affidavit is annexed that of Duncan
M'Andrew, his clerk, made in Lisbon, who verifies all
the facts stated in it.
This property was also restored by the sentence of
the district court, and affirmed in the circuit court. On
an appeal being prayed, the circuit court made an order, allowing this claimant to take farther proof to be
offered to this court. The proof offered under this order consists of a special affidavit of one of the shippers
of sworn copies of letters, ordering the shipment, and of
the invoice of the articles shipped.
This claim not having been attended, -when the sentence of restitution was made, with'any suspicious fcircumstances, other than the absence of papers which have
since been supplied, and which was probably the result
solely of inadvertence, this court is of opinion, that the
farther proof now offered, ought to be received. It
certainly dissipates every doubt respecting the proprietary interest. The only question made upon it respects the neutral character of the claimant.
.I A merchant"
a neuIt has been urged, that his native character easilyhaving
tral domicil at
rn nv
reverts, and that by returning to his native country, the time of
capture, does
the claimant has become a redintegrated British sub- not lose it by

visiting his native country afterwards aminao reverimdi, and leaving his commercial establishment
obe carried on by.his clerks in his absence.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

62
1818.
'

ject.

But his commercial establishment in Lisbon still

remains; his mercantile affairs are conducted in his

The Friendat
shaft. absence by his clerks; he was himself in Lisbon
the time of the capture ; he has come to London merely on mercantile business, and intends returning to
Lisbon. Under these circumstances, his Portuguese
domicil still continues.
But it is contended, that the connection between
Britain and Portugal retains the British character, and
the counsel for the captors has enumerated the priviliges of Englishmen in that country.
British sub- There privileges are certainly very great ; but,
sects resiWe"'
Portugal do without giving them a minute and separate examinanotretain their

native charac-tion, it may be soid, generally, that they do not con-

that of thefound the British and Portuguese character. They do
country where not identify the two nations with each other, or effect
they'reside.

n

1

those principles on which, in other cases, a merchant
acquires the character of the nation in which he resides
and carries on his trade. If a Brittisb merchant, residing in Portugal, retains his British character when
Britain is at war and Portugal at peace, he would also
retain that character when Portugal is at war and Britain at peace. This no belligerent could tolerate. Its
effect would'be to neutralize the whole commerce of
Portugal, and give it perfect security.
Sentence affirmed.

