CAS1ES 4N THE SUPREME COURT
1818.

The
,.Amiable
Nancy.

(PRLZE.3

THE AIABLu NANCY.
The district courts of the United States'have jurisdiction of ques'lions of prize, and its incidents, independent of the special provisions or
the prize act of the 26th Sune, 1812, ch..430. (CVII.)
Oi'an illegal seizure, the original wroa-g-doers may be made responsible beyond the loss actually sustained, in &case ofgress and wanton outrage ; but the owners of the piivateer, who are only constructively liable, are not bound to the extent of vindictive damages.
An item for loss by deterioration of the cargo, not occasioned by ther
improper conduct of the captors, rejete@d..
The probable or possible profits of an Rufinished voyage aFord no,
rule to estimate the damages, in a case of'marine trespass.
The prime cost or value of the propasty lost, and, in"case of injury
the diminution in value by reason of the injury, with interest thereon affords the true measure for estlinating damages in suah a case.
An item for the ransom of the vessel and cargo, which had been ashsequently seized by another belligerent, (as alleged for want ofpapers)
unaof which the vessel had been deprived by the first captors, rejected
case.
the
of
circumstances
der the particular

THis was a-suit fora marine trespass, cdmmenced
in the district court for the southern district of New-

York, by the libeT'ants and appellants, who were the
ow!.er, masfer, supercargo, and crew of the Haytian

Schooner Amiable Nancy,.against the defendatits7 whowere the owners of the private armed A-ve'rinan vessel
Scourge.

The libel states, that the Amiable Nancy and her
rirgo b.loniged to be libellant, Peter Joseph Mirault,
ofPort-au-Prince, imthe island of Hayti, or St. Do"

OF THE UNITED STATES.
iningo ; .that the vessel; with a cargo of corn, sailed 1818:
fronA Port-au-Prince about the 7th of October, i814,-T
-I.
The
on a voyage to Bermuda, and in the prosecution there- Amiable
ofabout the twenty-fourth day after sailing, in lati- Nancy.
tude 25 degrees north, was obligedy by stress of
weather, to bear away for Antigua, there to refit andagain proceed on the said -voyage ; that whilst proceeding toward Antigua, about the 4th of November,
in the same year, in latitude 17 degrees 54 minutes
north, and in longitude 62 degrees 42 minutes west,
the said Haytian schooner was boarded by an armed
boat's crew from the private armed American brig
Scourge, commanded by Samuel Eames' and owned
by the defendants; that Jeremy C. Ilickenson, the
first lieutenant of the said brig, with the said armed
boat's c'ew, then and there took po.sssion of the
Amiable Nan~y, and iobbed and .plundered the libellants, respectively, of divers articles of wearing apparel, money, and othe valuable effects of a great value,
being all that the libellants, at the tinle of the boarding as aforesaid, were po'ssessed of; and also robbed
and plundered the said schooner of her papers, notwithstanding that Samuel C. Lathrop, the- officer
commanding the narines of the aforesaid private.
armed brig, and who accompanied the said armed
boat's crew, had reported to the said Jeremy C.
Dickenson that he had examined the said papers;
that they were perfectly in order; and that the said
schooner was a Haytian schooner as aforesaid ; that
the said armed boat's crew also robbed and pundered the said schooner of divers articles belonging to
her tackle and apparel, to wit, of a log.reel and line,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
lines and cordage, and also, of poultry; and greatly
the libellants, and, in particular, knockea
The
Amiable down and greatly bruised the libellant, Frederick
Nancy, Roux, and put the libellants in bodily fear and danger of their lives; that about twelve o'clock of the
same night, the armed boat's crew aforesaid Ibft the
Amiable Nancy, and the.said schooner was permitted
to proceed on her course as aforesaid, and did so proceed,-but her papers were not restored, nor any other article of apparel, money, nor any of the valuable
effects of which the said schooner ahd libellants had
been robbed arid plundered, although the said captain
and supercargo did frequently and urgently remonstrate
with the boarding officer upon the impropriety of suclb
conduct as aforesaid; and did then and there state,
that the said schooner could not proceed without 'her
said papers ; but, notwithstanding the remonstrances of
the said libellants, nothing whatever -which had been
taken from the said schooner, and from the libellants,
wasrestored. That the libellant, Galien Amie, was
not permitted to go on board of the .said private armed
brig, although he earnestly requested permission so
to 'do, with the intent to complain to the commander
of the said private armed brig, of the conduct of his
said armed boat's crew, and of requesting him to
cause the papers and articles taken as aforesaid, to be
restored to the libellants and th-e said schooner. That
the said schooner continued on her course as aforesaid, and on or about the morning of the 8th oi No.
vember, in the-year aforesaid, arrived -at the entrance
of the harbour ot St. John's, in the island of Antigua,
when she was seized and detained by his, Britanniq maI818.

'

'ill-treated

OF THE UNITED STATES.
.jesty~s guard-brig Spider, on account of the want of

W

1818.
The
the
were,.for
her papers; and both the vessel ad cargo
same reason, libelled and proceeded against in the vice Amiable
Naney.
admiralty prize court in the said island:, That the
amiable Nancy was detained in the.possession of the
said guard-brig Spider until the 24th of Noyember ;
and in consequence of an agreement previously made
between the captors aforesaid and the said s'upercarg6
which he was advised to make, .an order to avoid the
farther detcntio~n, deterioration of the cargd, and total
loss of the same, as of the said schooher; the schooner
and her cargo were condemned as good and lawful
prize, and were immediately delivered up to the libellant, the supercargo aforesaid, on the engagement to
-Pay to the said capto.s the sum of $1,000, and all. l w
and'court charges, 'to a great amount, to wit, to the
amount of about $542 21, which said compromise, law
and court chages together, amounted to the' -,nm of
$1542 21, which the libellant, Frederick Roux, *as
obliged to pay, and did actually pay, in order to procure
the liberation of the said vessel and cargo. And in order to pay the same, the said last mentioned libellant
was obliged to pay, and did pay the larner sum of $536 44
by selling bills to procure specie to make the said'pay.
inent; besides which, the said'carao of corn sustained a
loss of $1,200, by its detention in poft a* foresaid,- deterioration and fall in price;, and the owner "of said
schooner did sustain farther loss by the breakinfr
-up of his voyage, and the said schooner bein&
obliged to leave Antigua in ballast, although a full
-freight was offered to him. That in consequence of,

gCASES
1818.

IN THE SUPREME COURT

the robbery and plunder of the said schooner, and the
treatment'of the libellants, and the capture and deThe
,
h
e
Amiable tention, as aforesaid, heavy loss and damage accrued
Nancy." to the libellants, respectively, amounting in the whole
to $15,000.
The libel then prays, that the defendants, as the owners of the Scourge, may be decreed to pay to the
libellants the damages respectively sustained by them
by the illegal conduct of the said boat's crew, with al,
other charges and expenses thereb 'incurred, and losses th'erefrom accruing, and for such other relief as mxy
be suited to the case.
The defendants, by their answer and plea, admit
that they were, at the time mentioned in the libel, the
owners of the Scourge, which was regularly rommissioned as a private arned vessel "Zuring the late war;
and that whilst cruising on the high seas, she met with
the said Haytian schooner; 'but they do nt't admit tbpt
the -plundering, outrages, and other unlawlul aqts
mentioned in the libe.l, were committed as therein
bharged; they do, howelver, admit, that the said schoo
er was boarded by a crew from the scourge, under the belief that she was an enemy, and that some improper acts
were committed by some of the said crew; but they. deny their responsibility therefor, especially as the- sw
qrew, or some of them, were punished for their inproper conduct.
-Samuel C. Lathrop, captain 'of marines on board
the Scourge, proved, that whilst the' said vessel w~s
on a cruise they fell in with the Amiable l ancy, about
the 4th or 5th of 'November, "1814, and boarded her;
that Lieutenant Dickenson and himself, 'with twelve
'ill

.•OFTHE UNITED TAT!S.
or thirteen of the crew, -went in the boarding boat, '1819.
uuderthe command of Lieut. Dickenson, and that as '
schooner, Amibe
soon as the boat cine alongside of the
Dickenson and himself went on board of her, and Nancy
all the men but one followed; that the men immediately commenced plundering the -vessel, which
Dickenson saw, and took no measures to prevent ;
that-the witness examined bet papers, and found her
to be a Haytian Schooner, and that they were all regular' and so reported to Lieut. Dickeifson. That
the bpat's crew ought not to have gone 'on board of
fle'tchooner at- all; but Dickenson did not order them
bak, 'and permitted them to proceed in breaking into.
the cabin, breaking open the trunks of the captain
and supercargo, plundering their contents, and the
schooner's crew of their clothes and effects, anl thiow-.
ing them in bundles -into the boat along side the.
Schoonex.; that the captain and supercargo complained'
to Dickenson of the conduct of his crew, and especially of their destruction of the schooner')s papers; and
T'he supercargo also complained of being knocke4
down; but Dickenson took no notice of their'com-plaints, and suffered the boat's crew to continue theirplundering, two jours on board of the schooner,,
thoigh he had examined. Ali schoon'er's papers, and'
made his report, as before. stited, in ten .minutes afteri
going on board.'
Commissions were issued to Antigua and Port-au-Prince to take testimony on the part of t&e libellants.
Under the Antigua commission, if was proved, that
the Amiable Nancy and her cargo were seized, libel.
led, and condemned at Antigua, on account of her

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
want of papers. That the supercargo compromiscd
-with the captors for $1,000, and court charges
The
Anliable $542,21, which he was advised to do, as most for the
iWancy, interest of the owner. That it was necessary to pay
this amount in specie, which could only by raisedby a
sale 'of the bills for which the cargo was sold, and was
done at a loss of $596 44 :'that other sums were
disbursed for the vessel, making in the whole
$2127 60. During the detention of the vessel, the
price of corn fell a dollar a bushel, and the cargo was
injured by the search of the schooner, made by
the Spiders crew, which occasioned a loss of $1,200.
The expenses of the schooner at Antigua were proved
The value of the articles plunderto be $414.
ed from the vesel, captain, supercargo, and crew
was proved by one of the witnesses, and by the protest; also,. the ill treatment and personal violence com.plained of.
,Under 'the commission to Port-au-Prince, it was
proved that the libellant, Peter Joseph Mirault, was
the owner of both the schooner and cargo, and that
the schooner was a Haytian *-esse],, regularly documented as such. The detention and plunder' of the
schooner, by the boat's crew of the Scourge, is fully
and particularly jroved by one of the seamen on board'
of the schooner, The object of the voyage to Bermuda, and, the loss sustained -in consequence o its
beinj broken up, are also proved.
On the hearing of the cause in the district court, -it
was referred to the clerk, or his deputy, to associate
with him two merchants, and report the damages sustained by the libellants. The deputy clerk accord1818.

OF THE UNITED STATES,.
ingly associated with him twa respectable merchants,
,.919,
one chosen by each of the parties, who reported the
TIe
damages as follows :
Amt.ble
Nanny.
vesMoney paid for redeming
sel an. cargor,

at Antigua,.
.
$2,127 66
Loss sustained on sales of the
cargo bf corn,,at Antigua, in,
consequence of the cap~uro, 1,200 00.
Detention, wages of the crew at
-Antigua, in consequence of
seizure by the Spider brig,
occasioned bythe loss of ship's
papers, .
414 00'
Articles plundered from; the
schooner Amiable Nancy,
25 00
Money and effects plur.dered
from M. Roux. the'supercarafter condemnation,

go,

47000

AIoney and eff&ets plundered
from the officers and crew
of che Amiable NancyV,om Captain Amie, 100,00
Moriset, mate, 80 00
E. 'Lenau, . 54 00
J. J. Loiseau, 5300
Michael,'
.
10 00
Savou,
'700
-304

00"
-'--4.540

VOL. Ill.

71

401

554
1818.
A,.i'ihk
Nancy.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
Loss sustained in consequence of !he eXpenses ocea,.ionel by the seizure and
condeinnation in .Artigua, growing out,
of the Am:able Nancy having been
deprived. of her papers by the acts of
the officers and crew of the.Scourge,
as proved by the deposition of Samuel
Dawson, and F. Lavaud, of Pori-au3,50000
.
..
.
Prince,
8,04060
Interest on this sum, from 1st January,
1815, till the 1st JuI-, 1817, at 6 per
.
.
cent. per annum-,

1,206 07
9,246 67

Allowance for M. Roux's expenses to and
from Port-au-Prince, Antigun, Boston, &c.;' detention in New York, loss
of time, and other incidental expenses,
procuring evidence, and attending the
..
.
trial,

1,500 00

$10,746 67
This report was confirmed by the court, and it was
further ordered by the co:t", that t! e defendar; should
pay to the libellant, for personal injuries, as follows:
$500
To the supercargo, five- hund-ed dollars,
10
dollars.
hundred
one
captain,
the
.To

555

OF ikkiF, UNITED STATES.
To the mate, one hundred dollars,
To the sailor, fifty dollars,

18is
100
50 • The
-Amiible
$750" Nancy.

And that th defendants should pay to the lihellants
ar.e thousand dollars, for the commission Flaimed by
the.supercargo, Frederick Roux, seven hundred and fifty dollars for couhsel fees, the proctor's costs, and the
costs of court.
The defendant appealed from the decision of the district court to the circuit court for ihe southern district
of New-York, where it was heard in September term,
1815, and the following decree made
This app~eal having bren argued, &c. this court, after mature deliberation thereon, do order, klajudge, and
decree, that the sentence of the district court, which
has been appealed from, be reversed, and this court
proceeding to assess the damages in this cause, make
the following allowances, that is to sayTo the Owner (f the Scwhaner.
1. For expenses during her detention at Antigua, in conformity with the estimate of
$300 00
.
the consignee,
2. For expenses of the mate
and supercargo while there,
according to the testimony
70-00
of the same witness, "
3. For articles plundered from
25 00
.
schooner,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1556

Interest on these sums at 10
per cent. from 1st of January
1815, to 1st September, 1S17,
Amiable
two years and eight months, 103 94
.tqancy.
-498
1318.
T-e
The

94

To the J.lasterof the &hwoner.
For articles taken from him, 100 00
the same interest on this sum, 26 66
10000
2. For personal injuries,
22666
To the Supercargo.
I. For articles plundered of him, 470 00
11432
The like interest on this sum,
500 00
-2.For personal wrongs,
108432
-3. For his expenses in cqllecting testimony at Antigua,
Port-au-Prince, &c., and at750 00
tending trial,
To the Mfate.
I. For the property lost by him, 80 00
The like interest on this sum, 21 32
100 00
2. For injury to his person,
.20132
To Lenau, .6eSailor,
1. For property robbed of him, 54 00
The like interest on this sum, 14 40
50 00
2. For injury to his person,
'11840
$2879 64

I OF THE UNITED STATES.
It is therefore further ordered and directed, That
1.
there be paid by the appellants, to the respondents and
The
libellants, the said some of two thousand eight hun- Amiable
dred an! seventy nine dollars, and sixty. four cents, i' - Nancy.
the manner and proportions following that is to sayto the libellant, Peter -Joseph Mirault, owner of the
schooner and cargo, the sum of four hundred a: "'
ninety eight dollars and ninety four cents; to the
libellant, Galien Amrie, master of the schooner, the
sum of $226 66 ; to the libellant, Frederic Roa.,
the superqargo, the sum of $1, .834 32 ; to the libellaht3
4mthony Morrisset, the .mate,. the sum of $2018-0 ; to
the libellant, Elie Lenau, one of the mariners, the sum
of $118 40.
.dnd it is fin-rAer ordered, adjudged, and decreed,
That the-appellants pay the further sum of $750 for
counsel fees in the district court; and that they also
pay the proctor's costs in the suid court, and the costs
of that court to be taxed."
.dnd it is furtier ordered and decreed, That each
party pay his own cosfs in ihis court; from which decree the libellants appealed to. this court.
This cause was argued by- Mr. Sergeant and Mr.
Baldwina for'the appellants, and by Mr. b. B. Ogden
for the'respondents.b
Mr. Justice STO Y delivered the opinion of the March 11th.
court. The jurisdiction of the district court to enaTheycited TheLucy, 3 Rob. Q08.
Rob. 17.

The Narcissu,

TheLively, I Gallis, 315.

b He cited Del Col v. Arnold, 3 Dail.,M.

4

558

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

tertain this suit, by virtue of its general admiralty
maritime jurisdiction, and independent of the
'and
- The
.Am 6 special provisions of the prize act of the '.th of
Nancy. June 1812, ch, 107. has been so repeatedly decided
by this court, that it cannot be permitted again to be
judicially 1 rought into doubt.a Upon the facts dik.
closed in the evidence, this must be pronounced a case
of gross and wonton outrage, without any just provocation or excuse. Under such circumstances, the
honour of the country, and the duty of the court,
*equally require that a just compensation should be
for all the injuries
Actu'lwrong-made to the unoffending neutrals,
And if this
them.
by
sustained
actually
doersin anra-arid losses
rine trespass
a suit against the original wrong-doers, it might
aretesponsiblewere
ary b
for exe ,p
them in
damages, bute, proper to go yet farther, and visit upon
the owners ofth 6 shape of exemplary damages, the proper punishthe privateers
which belongs to such lawless misconduct.
are
beyond_
sible bspnmert
But 'it is to be considered, that this is a suit against
joss the
injury Sustheaetual
or
owners of the privateer, upon whom the law has
aused.
from motives of policy, devolved a responsibility for
the conduct of the officers and crew employed by
them, anti yet, from the nature of the serlice, they
can scarxely ever be able to secure to themselves an
1818.

a Vide ante, vol, II. APrENDIX, note 1. p. 5.

Tiojurisdic-

tion of the admiralty, a: a court of prize, has been recently re.
viewed in England. on an npplkiaii-n to the court of chancery
for a prohibition, in which it wns detrnined, that this juris.
tiction do.es not depend upon the. prize act or cointnissiov, ror
cease with the cessation of hostiltites; but-th-it it extends to
all the incidents of prize, and to an indefinite period after the
termination of the war. Ex parte Lynch ctal. 1 Maddock's
Rep. 1

OF THE UNITED STATES.
adequate ind.m .nity in cases of loss. They are innocent
1818.
of the demerit o'this transaction,' having neither directed it, nor countenanced it, nor participated in it in Ambie
the slightest degree. Under such circumstances, ,we - Nuncy
are of opinion that they are bound to repair all the real
injuries a'nd personal wrongs sustained by the libellants, but they. are not bound to the extent of vindictive damages. While the government of the country
shall choose to authorize the employment of privateers
in its public wavrs, with the knowledge that such endployment cannot be exeinpt from occasional irregularities and improper conduct, it connoi be the duty of
courts of justice to defeat the policy of the government,
by burthening the service'with a responsibility beyond
what justice requires, with a responsibility for unliquidated damages, resting in mere discretion, an& intended t6 punish offenders.
As the respondents have not appealed from the decree of the circuit court, that decree, so far as it allows
damages againstthem, is not re-examinable here.An'd the only inquiry will be, whether any of the items
allowed by the district court were improperly rejected
by the circuit court.
And first, as to the item of 1,200 dollars, for losses losnby deter i ra t i n
o dofthe
sustained in the sale of the cargo at Antigua. This carV,
not OCh
loss is said to have been occasioned partly by the de-csionedbyt
^~prop~er
im
con-e
terioration of the corn by sea damage, •the mixing
of tors,
ductonh-cap
"
rejected.
the damiged will the sound corn by the improper
-conduct of the crew of the Spider bfig of war, and
partly by a fall of the price of corn during the detention of the vess-l at Antigua. We are of opinion,
tlat ihis item was properly - rejected. The jury to

. CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1818.

the corn was in no degree attiibutable to the improper conduct of the 9flicers and crew of the privateer.
The vessel was actually bound to Antigua at the
Amiabi
Nancy. time when she was met by the privateer, under a
necessity occasioned by stress of weather, and the
fall of the market there is precisely what would have
arisen upon the arrival of the vessel under ordinary circnmstances. Unless, therefore, the sale of
the corn was compelled at Antigua, solely by the
misconduct of the privateer, (which, in our opinioni
,was the case,) the claim for such loss cannot be sustained.
Another item is 3,,500 dollars, for the loss of the
pssirble
The
or posi"eprofothlcsfte
17 of a" un- supposed profits of the voyage on which the AmiaT]he

'l
finished voy-a afird noble Nancy
rRl for d'ama

b

was originally bound.

In the opinion o

ges in a ma the court, this i em'also was properly rejected. The
retatisthe
probableor possible benefits of a voyage, as yet in
"
can never afford a safe rule by which to estimate
ofdafleri,
rule
true
Images in.such
damages in cases of a marine trespass. There is
acas.
so much Uncertainty in the rule itself, so many con,
tingencies which may vary or extinguish its applicatioii, and so many difficulties in sustaining its legal
correctness, that the court cannot believe it proper to
entertain it.- Il several cases in this court, the claim
for:profits has been, expressly overruled; and inDel
Col v,. Arnold, (3 Dall 333.) and the Anna Maria,
(.2 Wheat. Rep. 327.) it was, after strict consideration,
held,' that the prime cost, or -value of the property lost,
at the time of the loss, and in the case of injury, the di.
riinution-in value, by reason of the injury, with interest
upon such valuation, afforded the true measure for
gssening. damages. TWis rule may not secure a com.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
plete indemnity for all possible injuries; but it has
1818.
certainty and general applicability to recommend it, '
and in almost all cases, will give a fair and'just re- Amiable
compense.
Nancy.
The next item is 2,127 dollars and 60 cents. for The item for
the ransom of the vessel and cargo, and the payment the ranson of
the vesselro
of the costs of court. The evidence upon this ,headjected.
is not very satisfactory in its details. It is assei ted
that the vessel was seized for the want of papers, but
whether as prize of war, or to enforce a municipal
forfeiture, is not distinctly stated ; and no copy of the
proceedings of the court is produced to c'ear up a
single doubt or obscurity. Nor does it appear, whether the com~promise was made before or after the libel
was filed; and it. is admitted that it was made-without
taking the' advice of counsel, upon tle mere opinion
of a merchant at Antigua, who supposed that a condemnation would certainly ,ensue. Upon what legal grounds this opinion could be reasonably entertained, it is extremely difficult to perceive. Assuming
that the vessel and cargo were seized as prize of war,
it cannot for a moment be admitted, that the mere
want of papers could afford a just cause of condem-,
nation.
It might be a circumstance, of suspicion;
but explained (as it must have been) by the preparatory examinations of the officers and crew, andby
the fact of a'voluntary arrival, it is difficult td suppose that there could be any judicial hesitation in
immediately acquitting the propErty. And the farthest that any prize court could, by the utmost
straining,' be presumed to go, would be to order farther pxoof of the proprietary interest. It would be
VOL: III.
72

562 •CASES

IN THE SUPREME COURT

the highest injustice to the British courts to suppose thal
Sthe mere want of papers, under such circumstances,
The
An i be could draw'after it the penalty of confiscaiion. We do
Nancy. not, therefore, think, that the ransom was justifiable or
reasonable. The utmost extent of loss to which the
owner was liable, was the payment of the costs and
expenses of bringing the pioperty to adjudication ; and
for such costs and expenses, as far as they were incur'
red and paid, the owner is now entitled to receive a
Aecompense. In this respect, the decree-of the circuit
court ought to be amended.
The item for the supercargo's commission was also
crnM;i@o.5 properly rejected. It does not -appear, with certainty,
notallowed. to what sum he was entitled ;-and under the circum"
stances, if lost, (which is not satisfactorily shown,)
the commissio ns -kere not lost by any act for which the
respondents are liable. The sum allowed for the travel, attendence, and expenses of the supercargo in proc.uring testimony, by the circuit court, i, in our judgment, an adequate compensation.
The sum of 41 dollars was (probably by mistake)
deducted by the circuit court from the expenses at An
tigua. This sum is to be reinstated.
To the decree of the circuit court there are, consequently, to be added the following sums :
For expenses and costs of court at Antigua, 542 dollars, 2l cents.
The loss on the exchange to pay that sum,.(say)
1$8 dollars.
The short allowance of expenses, 44 dollars.
In the whole, amounting to the sum of 774 dollars. 21 cents, on which interest, at the rate of 6 per
I1818.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
cent., is to be allowed from the time of payment up to
the time of thisjudgment. And the decree of the cir0
cuit court is to be reformed accordingly.
Decree reformed.

(CHANCERY;)
CRAIG V. LESLIE etal.
It. C., a citisen of Virginia, being seized of real property in th1E
tate, made his will: -In the first place I give, devise, and bequeath
unto J. L.- and four others, "all my ertate, real and personal, of
which I may die seized and possessed in an. part of Ameuric.,,in special trust, that the afore-mentioned persons, or such of them as may be
living at my dealh, u ill sell my personal cstate to the highest bidder
on two years credit, and my real estate on one, t.vo and three years
credit, provided satisfectory security be given by bond and deed of
1rust. In the second place, I give an bequeath to my brother T. C."
an alien, "a!l the proceeds-of my estate, real and personal, which I have
herein directed to be sold, to be remitted to him, accordingly as the
payments are wade, and I hereby declare the aforesaid J. L." and the
four other persons, "to be my trustees and executors for the purposes
afore-mentioned." Held, that the legacy given to T. C., in the will of
R. C., was to be considered asa bequest of personal estate, which he
was capable of a.:iig for his own benefit, though an alien.
Equity considers land, directed in wills, or other instruments, to blo
iold and converted into money, as money; and money directed to be
;mployed in the purchase of land, as land.
Where the whole beneficial interest in the land or money, thus directed to be employed, belongs to the person for whose ule it is given
aaourtofequity will permit the cestui que trust to take the money

1818.

g
Craig
v.
Leslie.

