CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
and the inquiry as to their value in the port from whict
1818.
%.0-~ they were originally shipped is excluded by the
fbampton
in which the libel is drawn. The decree of the
form
V.
X°Conrjl. district court, restoring the goods to the claimant, is,
therefore. affirmed.
Decree affirmed.

(CONSTlTUTOoN.Ar

LAW.)

HAMIPTON V. W'CONNEL.
A judgnent of a state court has the same credit, validity, and effect
in every other court within tto United Stateg, which it had in the
state whare it was rendered; and whatever pleas would be good to
a suit thereon in such state, and none others, can be pleaded in any

other court within the United States.

ERROR to the circuit court of the district of South
Carolina.
The defendant in error declared against the plaintiff
in error, in debt, on a judgment of the suprerme court
of the State of New York, to which the defendant below pleait il debet, and the plaintiff below demurred.
The circuit court rendered a judgment for the plaintiff
below, and thereupon the cause was brought by writ of
error to this court.
Peb. 141h.

Mr. Hopkinson, for the plaintiff in error, suggested,
that if, under any possible circumstances, the plea of
nil debet could be a good bar to the action, a general
He cited Mills v. Durdemurrer was insufficient.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1818.
yee,a and stated that the present case, might, perhaps,
be distinguished from that, as it would seem that in Hampton
v6.
Mills v. Daryee the defendant hafd actually appeared to
recover-M'Connel.
was
'the suit upon which the original judgment
ed; bvt that in the present case there was no averment
ii the declaration to that effect, and the proceeding in
,the former suit might have been by attachment in -rem,
-without notice to the party.
Mr. Law, for the defendant in err6r, relied upon the
authority of Mills v. Duryee, as conclusive to show that
siul liet record ought to have been pleaded. He also cited Armstrong v. Carson's executors.b
Mr. Chief Justice MAtSH1AI 4 L delivered the opinion 2Rb. 4&
of the court. This is precisely the same case as that
of Mills v. Duryee. The court cannot distinguish the
two cases. The doctrine there held was that the judgment of, a ptate court should have the same credit, validity and effect, in every other court, of the United
States, which it had in the state where it was pronoun'ced, and that whatever pleas would be g.ood to a suit
thereon in such state, and none others, could be plea,ed in any other court in the United States.
Judgment affirmed.c
a 7 Crauch, 481.
h 2 Dall. 302.
c In Mills i. Duryce, 7
Cranch, 48 1. the following
points were adjudged: 1st.
That the act of 1790, ch. 38,
prescribing the mode in which

the public acts, records, and
judicial proceedings, in each
state, shall be so authenticated,
as to take effect in every other
state, declaring that the record
of a judgment duly authentieated shall have such faith and

236,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

credit as it has in the state
court from whence it was taThe
orjwma. ken; if in such court it has the
effect of record evidence, it
must have the same effect in
every other court within the
United States. 2d. That in
every case arising vnder the
act, the only inquiry is,what is,
-the effect of the judgnvnt in
the state where it was rendered. 3d. That whatever might
be the effect of a plea of nil
debet to an action on a state
judgment, after verdict,, it
.could not be sustained on
demurrer. 4th. That on such
a plea the original record need
not he produced for inspection,
but that an exemplification
thereof is sufficient. 5th. That
the act applies to the courts
of the- district of Colombia,
and to every other court within the United States.
In the argument of Bordon
v Fitch, 15. Tohns. ,lep,121.
1818.

in the supreme court of NewYork, it seems to have been
supposed that 'this court had
decided in Mills v. Duryee,
that nul tiel record was the
only proper plea to an action
upon a state judgment. But
it is connived that as to the
pleadifig, it only decided that
nil debef %as not a proper plea;
and that the court would hold
that any plea (as well as MIT
fiel record) that would avoid
the juldgment, if technically
pleaded, would be good.
However this may be, it may
safely be affirmed, that tile
question is still open in this
court whether a special plea
of frauid might not be pleaded,
or a plea to the juri,diction of
the court in xdiich the judgment was obtained; for these
might, in' sone cases, be
pleaded in the state court to
avoid the judgment.

(PRIZE.)

THE Fo.TUVA.-Krause et al. Claimanft,
.A question of proprietary interest and concealment of paper.g. Farther
proofordered, open to both parties. On the production offarther
proof by the claimant, condemnation pronounced.

