OF THE UNITED STATES.

1430

ing jurisdiction in said causa, there not having been a 1818.
final judgment in said suit, in: the said supreme court of T'"'
the commonwealth of Pennsylvania.a
q CostA are not given where the writ of error is dismissed
for want of jurisdiction. Inglee v. Coolidge, ante, vol. II. p.
168.

(PIzIE.)
The ANNE, Baraubeu, Claimant.
The captors are competent witnesses upon an order Ifor farther. proor
where the benefit of it is extended to both parties.
The captors are always competent witnesses, as to the circumstances
of the capture, whether it bejoint, collusive, or within neutral territory.
It is not competent for a neutral consul, without the special authority of
his government, to interpose a claim on account of the violation of
territorial jurisdiction of his country.
Qucere, Whether such i.claim can be interposed, even by a public misinter, without the sanction of the government in Whose tribunal* the
cause is pending?
A capture, made within neutral territory, is, as between the belligqr.
enite, rightful; and its validity can only be questioned by the neutral
state.
If the captured vessel commences hostilities upon the- captor, shs
tforfeits the neutral protection, and the capture is not an injury Lbr
which redress can be sought from the neutral sovereign.
Irregularities on the part of the captors, originating from mere mistake,
"or negligence, which work no i-rcparable mischief, and are consistent
w Ith good faith, will not forfeit their rights of prize.
APPEAL

and.

to the circuit court of the district of Mary-

'

@6

CASES 'IN THE SUPREME COURT'

The British ship Anne, pith a cargo belonging ta.1818.
subject, was captulred by the privateer' Ultor,
. .e.British
while lying at anchor ,near the Spanish
part of the
1815,
March,
of
.island of St. Domingo, ,on the 13th
The
,and carried into New-York for adjudication.
master and supercargo were put on shore at St. D oWingo, and all the rest of the crew, except the mate,
-carpnter, and.-ook, were put on board the capturing
ship. After arrival at New-York, the deposition of
:the cook only was .taken, before a commissioner of
prize, and that, together .with the ship's papers, wvas
;transmitted by the commissioner, under seal, to the
,district judge of Maryland district, to which district
-the Anne was removed, by. virtue of the provisions of
.the act of congress of the 27+h of January, 1813, ch.
.478.
Rrize proceedings were duly instituted against the
,ship. and cargo. and a ciaim was afterwards interposed -in behalf of the Spani.h consul, claiming reski
.tution of the property', on account of an asserted vi
oolattion .of the neutral .territory of Spain. The testimp,uy of the carpentex *as thereupon taken by the
.claimant, and the captors were also" admitted to give
.testimony as to the circumstances of the capture; and,
.upon the whole evidence, the district court rejeted
-the-claim, and pronounced a ,senten.e of condemnatiQn
tothe captors. Upon appeal to the circuit court, peace
having taken, platee, the British owner, Mr. Richard. Scott, interposed a claim for the property, and
the deoree of the.district court was affirmed, profora,
tobring the c3use for a final adjudication beforp this
*

zourt.

,OF THE UNITED STATES..

43

1811.
7Mr. Ilarper, for the appe!iWt and claimant, argued,
Anne.
The
the
on
witnesses,
that the captors were incompetent
ground of interest, except when farther proof was im - a r ch
5th.
partedto them ;a and that they were not'entitled tob M
the benefit of farther proof in this case, being in delicto. The irregularity 'of their proceedings,' and the
violation .of the neutral territory, would not. only -exclude thera from farther proof, but forfeit their rights
of peize. The testimony being -irregularS'it must appear, aftlrmatively, that.it was taken by consent, where
the irregularity consists, not in -a mere bmissi6n" of
form, but-in the incompetency or irrelelancy *of the
evidence. The testimony of the captprs being eicluded from the case, the violation -of the neutral territory would appear uncontradicted. The" text wri.ters affirm the immunity of the neutral territory from
hostile operations in its ports, bays, and barbouts,
and within the range of cannon shot along its coasts.b
N4or can it be used as a station from which to exercise
As to the authority by which the claim
•hostilities.e
was interposed; the Spanish consul's was sufficient
-for that purpose; especially under the peculiar circumstances of the times when, on account of the unsettled state of the government in Spain, no minister.
from that country was received by our government,
a The Adriana, I Rob. 34. The Haabet,, Rob. 54. L'Amitie, 1d. 269. note (a.)
b Yattel, L. 3. ch. 7. § 132. Id. L. 1. h, 23. § 289. B3ynk.
Q1 J. Pub.L. I c. s. Ma:'tens L, 8. s, ck. 6. § 6. .!zuni,7)art
2.'ch. 5. art. 1. § 15.
e The Twee Gebroeders, 3 Rob. 162. The Anna, 5 Rok

4OASES

IN TI-E SUPREME COURT

but'the foimer consuls were continued in the exercise
of their functions by its permission. In- one of the
The Anne. cases in the English books, the Portuguese consul
.18.

'was allowed to claim on account of violated territory,
although it does not appear that he had any special
'Bot
instructions from his sovereign for that purpose.a
even supposing the powers of a consul not" adequale
t*this function, whence arisesthe necessity that the
neutral government should interfere in geneial? Be,oise the.enemy- proprietor is absolutely incapable of
interppsing a claim on this, or 4ny other ground.
But here the incapacity of the claimant is removed,
his pesona standi in judicio being restored by the intervention of peace. He may, consequently, assert
-his claim upon every ground which shows that the
capture, though of enemy's property, was originally
unlawful ad void.
Mr. D. B. Ogden and Mr. Winder, contra, contended, that the captors were admissible witnesses in
thig case; as they are in all cases respecting the cir6umstances of the capture; such as collusive and joint
captures, where the usual simplicity of the prize procediugs is necessarily departed from. So, also, their
A
testimony is generally admitted on farther proof.b
violation
claim founded merely upon the allegation of a
.of.neutral territory, is a .case peculiarly requiring the
6 The -Vrow Afina Catharine, 5 Rob, Ii.
b The" Maria, .1 Rob. 340. The Resolution, 6 Rob. 13.
The Grotius, £ Cranch, 368. The Sally, 'I Gallis. 401. The
'George, The Bothnea, and The Jahnstoff, I Wheaton, 408.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

4

1818.
introduction of evidence from all quarters, the capAnne
trans-,,.
the
of
-itnesses
necessary
much
tors being as
persons. Every capture
captured
,the
are
as
a2ction
of enemy's property, wheresoever tnade, is valid, primafacie ;.and it rests with the neutral government to
interfere, where the capture is made within neutral
jurisdiction. The enemy proprietor has no persona
standi injudicio for this or any other purpose. But
here the suggestion of a violation of the neutral t~rritory is not made by proper authority. All the cases
show that a claim for this purpose ' can only be interposed by authority of the government whose territorial rights have been violated.a The -public ministers of that government may make the claim, because they are presumed to be fully" empwered -,fpr
that purpose: But a -consul is a mere commercial
Kent,'and has none of the diplomatic attributes, oi'
lrivileges of an ambassador ; be must, therefore, Dve
specially empowired to interpose the claim,- in prd.y
that the court may be satisfied' that it comes from the
Offended government. A consul may, 'indeed, claim
fbr the property of his fellow subjects, but. not foi the
alleged violation of the rights of his sovereign ; because it is for' the sovereigir alone to judge whei
thos6 rights are ''iolated, and how far policy may ilkd6ice him silently tpcquiesc6 in those acts of .the bel]ierent by which they 'are supposed, ta'be infringed. There is only one case in the English books,
where a'claim of this-sort appears to have been made'
'

aThe Twbebroeders, 3 Rob. 162. uote. The Diilgentia,
.Dod8oa,412. The Eliza Ann, Id. 244.

gtCASES

IN THE SUPREME COURT

i818.: by a consul; aid from- 'tie report of that case it may
be fairly inferred that he was specially directed by his
'
The Ann...
governmnent to interpose the' claim.a But even the
Spanish government itself has not cQnducted with,
that impartiality between the belligerents, which entitles it to set up 'this exemption.b Its territory was,
during the late war, permitted to be made the theatre
of British hostility, and iii various ilistances was violated with impunity. Spain" was incapable, or unwilling, at that time, to maintain her neutrality in any
part of her immense dominions. Iii this very case
the captured vessel was not attacked; she was the
aggressor : and, in self-defence; the privateer had not
only a right fo resist, but- to capture. The local
circumstances alone would have prevented the
Spanish government from protecting the inviolability of its territory- on a desert coast, and out
of the reach of -the guns of any fortress. Bynker
shoekc and Sir William Scott hold, that a flying ena The Vrow Anna Cathar- Casaregis 'seems to concur,
(Disc. 24, n. 11.) is reprobaf
in, 5 Rob, 1S"
by several writers. De Ha.,
ted
b The Eliza Ann, Dodson,
244, 24b.

cQ.J.Pb.L. 1. ch. 8.
Vi"no verbo;. territorilm com-

munis anici valet ad prohiben4um vim, qum ibi inchoatur,
non valet ad inhibendam, qurn,
extra territorium inchoata,
dum fervet opus, in ipso territorio-continuatur." This opinion of Bynkershoek, in which

breu, Part 1'. ch. 4. ' 15.
2
Azuni, part . c. 4. art. I. 'Va.
in, Traite des Prists, ci. 4
sec. 3. n. 4. art. 1. Ernerigon,
Des Assurances, Tom. 1. P.
449. Azuni observes, "Di fatti _dacche. il demico persoguitato si trova sotto il cannon
o nel mare territoriale della
Potenza amici e neutrale egli

OF THE UNITED STATESM,
my may lawfully be pursued and taken in such pla- I8M.
ces, if the battle has been commenced on the high TheAnn
seas.a . fortiori, may an enemy, who commences
the first attack within neutral jurisdiction,-be resisted
and captured., But should all these grounds fail, the
captors may stand upon the effect of the treaty
of peace in quieting' all titles of possession arising out
of the war. 6 As betweeii the American captors and
tie British. claimant, the proprietary interests of thesi considera to-ito sotto l'asilo, pis alieni, aut in pnari ita vicie protezioie della nazione pa- no, ut tela tormentave muralia
ciflca ed amica: laorldo se maritimae arcis illuc adigi
fos.se permesso di 'continuare possint, tune citra omne dtibiil corso fino alle spiagge neu- um dictae naves hostilles,
trali, potrebbe anche contin- eoque minus naves communis
uarsi nel porto mcdesimo ed anlici principis recognosci,
incendiare perfino ]a citta ave visitari, et depraedari subquol'inseguita nave si fosse rifu- vis praetextu minime va!ent,
giata.
Lo stesso Casaregi quia dictae naves -non minus
connobe in appresso lo sbaglio sunt sub custodia et protecti preso su di questa materia o ne talis principis, quam sunt
stordo questia suna dottrina,
giacche sostenne di poi Popinione in'altro discorso posteriormente scritto da ni." "Ant
naves inimicae (ot hme est
secunda pars distinctionisprin-

illius subditi intra civitatis

muros exi stentes." Optimus
textus est in lege 3. § fin. if.
De adquir. rer. dom. Ibid.
"Quidquid autem eorum cdep.
erimus, ea usque nostrum esse.
cipalis) reperiuntur intra Por- intelligiter, donee nostra custus, vel sub prmsidiis, vel aici- todia coercetur." "Casaregis
bus maritimis alicujus princi- Disc. 174. n. 11. Ibid."
a The Anna, 5 Rob. 345.

b Wlieaton on Capt. 307. and the authorities there Cited.
Vol. II.
57

442
i$io
""nne.

CASS IN TflK SUPREMEfE COURT
latter was completely deveste'd by the capttire. The
''as confirmed by
title of the captors acquired in war
prxpidia. The
infra
property
captured.
bringing the
in order
interpose,
to
neutral go'ernment-has na right
to pteven t the execution of the treaty of peace in this;
vespect, by gcopefling restitution to British- subjects
eontrary to the treaty to whieh theyyaxe parties., The
'neutral government may,- perhaps; require some atonement for the violation of its territory, but it has no,
right to, require" that this atonement shall fnclucte any
sacrifice to the British claimant.
Mr. Harper, in reply, insisted that the- claim of
neutral territory, as invalidating the capture, might be
set up by a eonsul as weir as any other public minister. He may be presumed to have been autherized to interpose it by, his government; and in the
ease, of the Vrow Anne Cathari'nao it does not appeap
that any proof was given to the- court, that the Portuguese consul, Was, specially instructed to make thesuggestion. However partial and unjustifiable may
have been the conduct of Spain in the late war,
it has. not yet been consideredtby the executive gov.
ernment and& the legislature, (who are exclusively
oharge.d with. the care of our foreign relations,) -asforfeiting her right still to be cohsiderecr, in courts of
In the- case of Eliza
Justice, as a ,neutral state.
ALn~b Sir.- W.. Scott. went on the, ground ot the
Ck-5 Bob. la

Do4smi, 244.,
&.5Ro4.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
.egal existence of a war between Great Britain 'and
1818.
Sweden, although declared by 'Sweden only; and The Ann
that the place where the capture was made- was
in the hostile possession of the. British arms. The
observations thrown out by him in delivering his 1-udgment*as to the necessity of the neutral state main
taining a perfect impartiality between" the bellVgerents,
in order to support a 'laim of thiz sort in the prize
court, were superfluous; because the facts showed
that Sweden was in no respect to be con'sidered as
neutral, having openly declared war 'gainst Great
Britain., and a counater declara-ion being nnecessary
to constitute a state of hostilities. As tio the alleged
resistance of the cap~tured vessel, it was a premature
defence only, commenced in consequence of apprehensions from Carthagenian rovers, which frequent
ed those seas, and being-the z'esult of misapprdhension, could confer no righ' to capture where none pre-yiouslyexisted.
Being in -aneutral place, -the vessel was entitled to the privileges of - neutral. Resistance to search does not always forfe it the privilegesof neutrality; it may be excused under eircuia-stances of misapprehension, accident, or inistake,But resistance to search by a 'neutral on the high seas
Isgenerally unjustifiable. Here the righ of search
could not exist, and, consequently, an attempt to ixercise it might lawfully be resisted. Finding-the neutral territory no prbtection, the captured Ivessel .i esumed her rights as an enemy, and attempted to defend herself. The titles of possession, which are said
t The St. Juan Baptista, &d. 5 Rob, 36.

CASES" IN THE SUPREME C01URT

444
1818.

'Te A

to be confirmed by a treaty of peace, are those which
*arisefrom sentences of condemnation, valid or inva-.
!lid'; but the principle cannot be applied to a mere tortious possession, unconfirmed by any sentence of
.condemnation like, the present. The capture being
invalid ab initio, and the former proprietor being rehabilitated in his'rigbts by the intervention of peace,
may interpose his claim at any time before a final sentence of condemnation.

Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the court
The first question which is*presented to the court
is, whether the capture wais made within the territorial limits of Spanish St. Domingo. The testimony
of the carpenter and cook of ther captured vessel distinctly asserts that the ship, at the time of the capture,
vas laying at anchor about a mile from the shore of
the island. The testimony 'of the captors as dis-tinctly asserts, that the ship then lay at a distance
,of from four to five miles from the shore. It is contended, by the counsel for the claimants, that captors,
are, in no cases admissible witnesses in prize causes
being rendered incompetent by reason of tleir inteTest. It 'is certainly true, that, upon the .original
hearing, no other evidence is admissible than that of
the, ship's papers, and the preparatory examinations
of the ciptured crew. But, upon an order for farOtptors arether proof, where the benefit of it is allowed to'the
neomeentwher captors, their attestations are clearly admissible evima- dence. This is the ordinary' course of prize courts,
itbecomes
terial to ascerascertain the
tlin the cir- especially wheee it becomes material tosuch
cases the
cuimstatueo
Ahcaptur*,, of cir~qumstances of the capture ; for in

'.arc

71h_

OF THE UNITED STATES

445

facts'lie as much within the knowledge of the captor$ 188.
as the captured; and the objection' of interest geone party as to the
nrally applies as strongly to the
other. It'is a mistake, to suppose that the common
law'doctfine- as-to competericy, is ,applicable to prize
proceedings. In courts of prize, no person is incompetent merdly on the ground of interest. His testimony
is admissible, subject to all exceptions as.to its crqdibility. The cases cited at the argument distinctly support this position; and thy are perfectly consistent
with the principles by which courts o Ifprize, profess
We are, therefore,
to regulate their proceedings.
of opinion, that the attestation8 of the eaptors are le-.
the ease, and it remains to examiie
gal. evidence
And without entering into a minute
their credit.
examination, in this conflict of testimony, we are of
opinion, that the weight of evidence is, decidedly, that
the capture was made within the territorial limits of
Spanish St. Domingo.
And this brings us to the second question in the cause;
onsl can
and that is, whether it was competent for the Spanish A
not interpose a
consul, merely by virtue of his office. and without the claim for tho
of
Soiolation
special authority of his government, to interpose a neutral tero
authoioltedspecial
fortheassrtio
claim in this (]ai
caseinthiscas
for the assertion ofthe
of the violated
rypcialaho-b
gchis
rityof
his
that
opinion,
of
are
We
rights of his sovereign.
0
vernuient.
ofF ;e confers on him no such legal competency. A
consul, though a public agent, is supposed to be clothed with authority only for ccinmercial purposes. He
has an undoubted right to interpose claims for the restitution of properly belonging to the subjects of his own
country; but he is Aot considered as a minister, or di.
plomatic agent of his sovereign, intrusted, by virtue

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
of his office, with authority to represent him in his ne
with foreign states, or to vindicate his preroSgotiations
The Anne. gatives. There is no doubt, that his sovereign may
specially intrust him with such authority; but in such
case his diplomatic character is superadded to his ordinary powers, and ought to be recognized by the govexerernment within whose dominions he assumes to
such
any
of
proof,
or
cise it. There is nd suggestion,
thereand
case;
this
delegation of special authority in
fore we consider this claim as asserted by an incompeto be dismisstent'person and on that ground it ought
sed. It is admitted, that a claim by a public minisier,
of his
or in his absence, by a charge d'affairs in behalf
admission,
sovereign would be good. But in making this
in a court
made
be
can
it
that
it is not to be understood
governthe
of
sanction
of justice without the assent or
That is
ment in whose courts the cause is depending.
this court
a question of great importance, upon which
shall
point
the
until
expressly reserve their opinion,
come directly in judgment.a
the vioThe claim of the Spanish government for
lation of its neutral territory being thus disposed of,
British claimit is next to be considered whether the
that circumant can assert any title founded upon
became
stance. By the return of peace, the c..imant
a suit in
rehabilitated with the capacity to sustain
is that
argument
the
the courts of this country; and
and
void
is.
a capture made in a neutral territory
18lb.

Selwyn, 284. as to the eztent
a See Viveash v. Becker, 3 MTfaalc and
of the powers and privileges of consuis.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

4Cr-

therefore, the title by capture being invalid, the Brl-- 1,8.
tish owner has a right to restitution. The difficulty
The Ain.
of this argument rests in the incorrectness
of the' pre-" -A
capture
'
~within=uta
raises. A capture
made
within
neutral
waters
is,
as
terrtor, as be-is
betwe e"
eeniis
"
ro
rightful,
lietwee~ enemies, deemed, to all intents, and purposes, t.eenthe bel.
right ul ; it is only by the'neutral
sovereign that its le-ligere.ts; the
tho
ntlneutral
&6 validity can be called in questior; and as to him n
ques
state
-and him only, is it to be considered void. The ene-t-.
my has no rights WhAtsoever ; and if the neutral sovereign- omits or dcclhnes to interpose a flaim, the- property is condemnable,jure bellt, to tio. aptors. This
is the clear result of the authoi ities ; and the doctrine
rests on well established principles of public law.a
There is one other point in the case which, if all oth-captured ship
first commenor difficulties were removed, would be decisive -against cing hostilities
I i a fact that the captured shiiP first uonoh!
the claimant. It
neutral
prota
comencedhostilities against the privateer. This is'
thattLon.
assert
to
excuse
no
is
it
and
;
,admitted on all sides
it was done under a mistake of the national characterof the privateer, even if this were 'entirely made out
in the evidence. While the ship was lying in neutral
i'aters,, she was bound-to abstain, from all hostilities,
except in self defence. The privateer had an equal
title with herself to the neutral*protection,.and was in.
no default in approaehing the coast without' showing,
a The same ruleis adhered' "councilof pti'zes refused resto inthe prize practice of titution, because the Spanish:
France, and was acted on in governmept did-not interpose
the case of tie Sacnta 'iinta a claim on account of its, vioa Russian vessel, captured lated territory. Blonncmantt'
within a mile and a half-of Translation of Di Habress
the coast of Spain; but the otm. Ip. 117.

4 48

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

her national character. It was a violation of that
The-.Anne. neutrality whidh the captured ship was bound to ob•
n serve, to commence hostilities for any, purpose in these
waters; for no vessel coming thither was bound to
submit to search, or to account to her for her conduct
or character. When, therefore, she commenced hostilities, she forfeited the neutial protection, and the
capture was no injury for which any redress could be
rightfully sought from the neutral-sovereign.
1818.

The concluaon from all these views of the case is,
that the ship and cargo ought to he condemned as
good prize of war. And the only remaining inquiry
is, whether the captors have so conducted themselvqs
as to have forfeited the rights given by their cbmmission, so that the condemnation ought to' be to the
United States. There can be no doubt, that if captors are guilty of gross misconduct, or laches, in viofation of their duty, courts of prize will - visit upon
thevn the penalty of a forfeiture of the rights of
prize, especially where the government chooses to
interpose a claim to assert such forfeiture. Cases of
gross irregularity, or fraud, may readily be imagined
in which it would become the duty of this court to enforce this principle in its utmost rigour. But it has
never been supposed that irregularities, which have
arisen from mere mistake, or negligence, when they
work no irreparable mischief ,and are consistent with
good faith, have ordinarily induced such penal conpdquences. There were some irregularities in this
case; but there is no evidence upon the record from
which we can infer that there was any fraudulent

OF THE UNITED STATES.
suppression, or any gross misconduct inconsistent with
1818.
good faith; and, therefore, .we are of opinion, that
Brown
condemnation ought to be to the captors.
v.
It is the unanimous opinion of the court, that the de- Jackson.
cree of the circuit court be affirmed, with costs.
Decree affirmed.

(CoMmox LAW.)

BROWN V. JACKSON.
Although the grantees in a deed executed after, but recorded Sefore,
another conveyance of the same land, being boaiflt purchasers with.
out notice, are by law deemed to possess the better title;: yet wherq
L. conveyed to C. the landin controversy specifically. describing hin"
self as devisee of A. S. by whom the land was owned in his life time'
and by a subsequent deed (which was first recorded) L. conveyed
to B. "all the right, title, and claim, which he, the said A. S., had
and all the right, title and interest which the said S. holds as legateo
and representative to the said A. S. deceased, of all land lying and
being within the state of Kentucky, which cannot at this time be
particularly described, wliether by deed, patent, mortgage, qurvey
s
location, contract, or otherwise," with a covenant of warranty
against all persons claiming under L. his *heirsand assigns; it was
held, that the latter conveyance operated only upon lands, the right
tie and interest of which was then in L. and which he derivedfrom
A. S., and consequently, could not defeat the operation of The firgt
dced upon the land specifically, conveyed.

ERRoR to the circuit court for the district of Xentucky.
VOL. III.
58

