MELROSE DISTILLERS v. UNITED STATES.

271

Opinion of the Court.

MELROSE DISTILLERS, INC.,

ET AL. V.

UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 404.

Argued March 30, 1959.-Decided April 20, 1959.

Petitioners, two Maryland corporations and a Delaware corporation,

were indicted in a Federal District Court for restraining trade
and conspiring and attempting to monopojize commerce in violation of §§ 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act. They were dissolved
under their respective state statutes and moved to dismiss the
indictment on the ground that their dissolution abated the proceeding. Held: Under the applicable Maryland and Delaware
statutes, their corporate lives were sufficiently continued to make
them "existing" corporations within the meaning of § 8 of the
Sherman Act, so that the proceeding did not abate. Pp. 271-274.
258 F. 2d'726, affirmed.

Robert S. Marx argued the cause for petitioners.
With him on the brief were Hilary W. Gans and Roy G.
Holmes.
Richard A. Solomon argued the cause for the United
States. With him on the brief were Solicitor General
Rankin, Assistant Attorney General Hansen and Henry
Geller.
-MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Petitioners are corporations--two organized under
Maryland law and one under Delaware law-and wholly
Owned subsidiaries of Schenley Industries, Inc. They
were indicted with others for restraining trade, conspiring
to monopolize and attempting to monopolize commerce in
violation of §§ 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act, 26 Stat. 209,
15 U. S. C. §§ 1, 2. Shortly after the indictment was
returned, petitioners were dissolved under their respective

272

OCTOBER TERM, 1958.
Opinion of the Court.

359 U. S.

state statutes and became separate divisions of a new
corporation under the same ultimate ownership. They
then moved to dismiss the indictment on the ground that
their dissolution abated the proceeding. The District
Court denied the motions, holding that under the applicable Maryland and Delaware statutes the existence of
the dissolved corporations continued so far as prosecution
of this criminal proceeding was concerned. 138 F. Supp.
685. Petitioners then pleaded nolo contendere and the
District Court levied fines against them. The Court of
Appeals affirmed, 258 F. 2d 726. The case is here on a
petition for a writ of certiorari which we granted because
of a conflict among the Circuits.' 358 U. S. 878.
We start from the premise that in the federal domain
prosecutions abate both on the death of an individual
defendant (List v. Pennsylvania,131 U. S. 396; Schreiber
v. Sharpless, 110 U. S. 76) and on the dissolution of a
corporate defendant (Defense Supplies Corp. v. Lawrence
Warehouse Co., 336 U. S. 631, 634), unless the action is
saved by statute. We need not decide whether federal
law alone would be sufficient to save a federal cause of
action against a corporation dissolved under state law.
We have here a situation where the interplay of federal
and state law makes it clear that petitioners did not
escape criminal responsibility under the Sherman Act by
the kind of dissolution decreed under Maryland and
Delaware law.
The Sherman Law in § 8 defines "person" to include
corporatiors "existing" under the laws of any State. The
question whether a corporation "exists" for any purpose
is thus determined by reference to state law. We conclude that under both Maryland and Delaware law the
See United States v. Lzne Material Co., 202 F. 2d 929; United
States v. United States Vanadium Corp., 230 F. 2d 646. Cf. United
States v. P. F. Collier & Son, 208 F. 2d 936.

MELROSE DISTILLERS v. UNITED STATES.
271

273

Opinion of the Court.

lives of these corporations were not cut short, as is sometimes done on dissolution, cf. Chicago T. & T. Co. v. Wilcox Bldg. Corp., 302 U. S. 120, but were sufficiently
continued so that this proceeding did not abate.
In Maryland, during the period relevant here, though
the dissolution of the corporation was effective when the
articles of dissolution had been accepted, the corporation
continued "in existence for the purpose of paying, satisfying and discharging any existing debts and obligations . . . ." (Flack's Md. Ann. Code, 1951, Art. 23,
§ 72 (b).) It was also provided in § 78 (a) that "such
dissolution" shall not "abate any pending suit or proceeding by or against the corporation ....
" We have found
no Maryland decisions interpreting these sections; but we
are satisfied that the term "proceeding," no matter how
the state court may construe it,2 implies enough vitality
to make the corporation an "existing" enterprise fbr the
purposes of § 8 of the Sherman Act.
The Delaware'statute seems equally clear, though again
there is no authoritative interpretation of it. It provides
that any "proceeding" begun by or against a corporation
before or within three years after dissolution shall continue
"until any judgments, orders, or decrees therein shall be
fully executed." Del. Code Ann., 1953, Tit. 8, § 278;
Addy v. Short, 47 Del. 157, 89 A. 2d 136, 139. The term
"proceeding" is elsewhere used in the Delaware Code as
including criminal prosecutions; ' and that seems to us to
2 A memorandum filed by the Attorney General's office states that
while there are no rulings on the point by the Maryland Court of
'Appeals or by the Attorney General, '"the issue has been fully covered
in opinions of- the District Court and the Fourth Circuit Court of
Appeals." And it adds, "We wish to express, however, our concurrence with the rulings of the lower courts in the pending litigation."
8 "Whenever a corporation is informed against in a criminal
proceeding . : . ." Tit. 11, § 1702.

OCTOBER TERM, 1958.
Opinion of the Court.

359 U. S.

be consistent with its normal construction. We conclude
that irrespective of how the Delaware statute may be construed by the Delaware courts, it sufficiently continued
the existence of this corporation for the purpose of § 8 of
the Sherman Act.
Policy reasons look to the same result. Petitioners
were wholly owned subsidiaries of Schenley Industries,
Inc. After dissolution they simply became divisions of anew corporation under the same ultimate ownership. In
this situation there is no more reason for allowing them
to escape criminal penalties than damages in civil suits.
As the Court of Appeals noted, a corporation cannot be
sent to jail. The discharge of its liabilities whether criminal or civil can be effected only by the payment of money.
Affirmed.

4

An argument to the contrary is premised on Del. Code Ann.,
1953, Tit. 8, § 281, which provides that the trustees of a dissolved
corporation shall, after payment of allowances, expenses, and costs,
pay "the other debts due from the corporation." It is urged that
"debts" in this setting means existing debts; 'But that seems tu us
too narrow a reading in light of the provision in § 279 which contemplates the entry of judgients against the corporation.

