KLOR'S v. BROADWAY-HALE STORES. 207
Syllabus.

KLOR'S, INC., v. BROADWAY-HALE
STORES, INC., ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT. OF APPEALS FOR
THE NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 76. Argued February 25-26, 1959.Decided April 6, 1959.
Petitioner, which operates a retail store selling radios, television sets,
refrigerators and other household appliances, brought this action.
for treble damages under § 4 of the Clayton Act against respondents, a chain of department stores and 10 national manufacturers
and their distributors, alleging that the manufacturers and distributors conspired among themselves and with the chain of
department stores either not to sell to petitioner or to do so only
at discriminatory prices and highly unfavorable terms, in violation
of §§ 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act, and that this had seriously
damaged petitioner. Respondents did not deny these allegations
but moved for summary judgment and dismissal of the complaint
for failure to state a cause of action. They filed affidavits that
there were hundreds of other retailers selling the same and competing appliances in the same community and contended that the
controversy was a "purely private quarrel" b tween petitioner and
the chain of department stores, which did not amount to a "public
wrong" proscribed by the Sherman Act. Held: Petitioner's allegations clearly showed a group boycott, which is forbidden by the
Sherman Act, and respondents' affidavits provided no defense to
the charges. Pp. 208-214.
(a) A group boycott is not to be tolerated merely because .the
victim is only one merchant whose business is so small that his
destruction makes little difference to the economy. P. 213.
(b) Monopoly can as surely thrive by the elimination of small
businessmen, one at a time, as it can by driving them out in large
groups. P. 213.
255 F. 2d 214, reversed and cause remanded.

Maxwell Keith argued the cause for petitioner.
him on the brief was Irvin Goldstein.

With

OCTOBER TERM, 1958.
Opinion of the Court.

359 U. S.

Moses Lasky argued the cause for respondents. On
the brief were Mr. Lasky for Broadway-Hale Stores, Inc.;
Herbert W. Clark for Admiral Corporation et al.; Robert
E. Burns and Joseph S. Wright for Zenith Radio Corp.;
Alvin H. Pelavin for Whirlpool-Seeger Corporation;
David B. Gideon for H. R. Basford Co.; Francis R.
Kirkham for Radio Corporation of America; H. W.
Glensor for Leo J. Meyberg Co.; Nat Schmulowitz and
Peter S. Sommer for Emerson Radio & Phonograph Corp.
et al.; Marion B. Plant for Philco Corporation et al.;
Boice Gross for Rheem Manufacturing Co.; Everett A.
Mathews for General Electric Co. et al.; and Philip S.
Ehrlich for Olympic Radio & Television, Inc., et al.,
respondents.
Philip Elman argued the cause for the United States,
as amicus curiae, urging reversal. On the brief were
Solicitor General Rankin, Assistant Attorney General
Hansen, Robert A. Bicks, Charles H. Weston and Henry
Geller.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Klor's, Inc., operates a retail store on Mission Street,
San Francisco, California; Broadway-Hale Stores, Inc.,
a chain of department stores, operates one of its stores
next door. The two stores compete in the sale of radios,
television sets, refrigerators and other household 'appliances. Claiming that Broadway-Hale and 10 national
manufacturers and their distributors have contpired to
restrain and monopolize commerce in violation of § § 1 and
2 of the Sherman Act, 26 Stat. 209, as amended, 15 U. S. C.
§§ 1, 2, Klor's brought this action for treble damages and
injunction in the United States District Court.1
1 Section 1 of the Sherman Act provides: "Every contract, combination in the form of trust or otherwise, or conspiracy, in restraint of

KLOR'S v. BROADWAY-HALE STORES.
207

209

Opinion of the Court.

Insupport of its claim Kor's made the following allegations: George Klor started an appliance store some
years before 1952 and has operated it ever since either
individually or as Klor's, Inc. Kor's is as well equipped
-as Broadway-Hale to handle all brands of appliances.
Nevertheless, manufacturers and distributors of such
well-known brands as General Electric, RCA, Admiral,
Zenith, Emerson and others I have conspired among
themselves and with Broadway-Hale either not to sell to
Klor's or to sell to it only at discriminatory prices and
highly unfavorable terms. Broadway-Hale has used its
"monopolistic" buying power to bring about this situation. The business of manufacturing, distributing and
selling household appliances is in interstate commerce.
The concerted refusal to deal with Klor's has seriously
handicapped its ability to compete and has already caused
it a great loss of profits, goodwill, reputation and prestige.
The defendants did not dispute these allegations, but
sought summary judgment and dismissal of the complaint
for failure to state a cause of action. They submitted
unchallenged affidavits which showed that there were
trade or commerce among the several States, or with foreign nations,
is declared to be illegal . . . ." Section 2 of the Act reads, "Every
person who shall monopolize, or attempt to monopolize, or combine
or conspire with any other person or persons, to monopolize any
part of the trade or commerce among the several States, or with
foreign nations, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor . .. ."
Section 4 of the Clayton Act, 38 Stat. 731, 15 U. S. C. § 15, states,
"Any person who shall be injured in his business or property
by reason of anything forbidden in the antitrust laws may sue
therefor ... and shall recover threefold the damages by him
sustained. .. ."
2 The appliance manufacturers named in the complaint are: Admiral Corp., Emerson Radio and Phonograph Corp., General Electric
Co., Olympic Radio and Television, Inc., Philco Corp., Rheem Manufacturing Co., Radio Corp. of America, Tappan Stove Co., Whirlpool
Corp., Zenith Radio Corp.

210

OCTOBER TERM, 1958.
Opinion of the Court.

359 U. S.

hundreds of other household appliance retailers, some
within a few blocks of Klor's who sold many competing brands of appliances, including those the defendants
refused to sell to Klor's. From the allegations of the
complaint, and from the affidavits supporting the motion
for summary judgment, the District Court concluded that
the controversy was a "purely private quarrel" between
Klor's and Broadway-Hale, which did not amount to a
"public wrong proscribed by the [Sherman] Act." On
this ground the complaint was dismissed and summary
judgment was entered for the defendants. The Court of
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit affirmed the summary judgment. 255 F. 2d 214. It stated that "a violation of the
Sherman Aot requires conduct of defendants by which
the public is or conceivably may be ultimately injured."
255 F. 2d, at 233. It held that here the required public
injury was missing since "there was no charge or proof
that by any act of defendants the price, quantity, or
quality offered the public was affected, nor that there was
any intent or purpose to effect a change in, or an influence
on, prices, quantity, or quality . . . ." Id., at 230. The
holding, if correct, means that unless the opportunities
for customers to buy in a competitive market are reduced,
a group of powerful businessmen may act in concert to
deprive a single merchant, like Klor, of the goods he needs
to compete effectively. We granted certiorari to consider
this important question in the administration of the
Sherman Act. 358 U. S. 809.
We think Klor's allegations clearly show one type of
trade restraint and public harm the Sherman Act forbids, and that defendants' affidavits provide no defense
to the charges. Section 1 of the Sherman Act makes
illegal any contract, combination or conspiracy in restraint
of trade, and § 2 forbids any person or combination from
monopolizing or attempting to monopolize any part of

KLOR'S v. BROADWAY-HALE STORES.
207

211

Opinion of the Court.

interstate commerce. In the landmark case of Standard
Oil Co. v. United States, 221 U. S. 1, this Court read § 1
to prohibit those classes of contracts or acts which the
common law had deemed to be undue restraints of trade
and those which new times and economic conditions would
make unreasonable. Id., at 59-60. The Court construed
§ 2 as making "the prohibitions of the act all the more
complete and perfect by embracing all attempts to reach
the end prohibited by the first section, that is, restraints
of trade, by any attempt to monopolize, or monopolization
thereof . . . ." Id., at 61. The effect of both sections,
the Court said, was to adopt the common-law proscription of all "contracts or acts which it was considered had
a monopolistic tendency . . ." and which interfered with
the "natural flow" of an appreciable amount of interstate
commerce. Id., at 57, 61; EasternStates Lumber Assn. v.
United States, 234 U. S. 600, 609. The Court recognized
that there were some agreements whose validity depended
on the surrounding circumstances. It emphasized, however, that there were classes of restraints which from their
"nature or character" were unduly restrictive, and hence
forbidden by both the common law and the statute. 221
U. S., at 58, 65.1 As to these classes of restraints, the
Court noted, Congress had determined its own criteria of
public harm and it was not for the courts to decide
whether in an individual case injury had actually occurred.
Id., at 63-68.1
3 See also United States v. American Tobacco Co., 221 U. S. 106,
179, where the Court noted that the statute forbade all "acts or contracts or agreements or combinations . . . which, either because of
their inherent nature or effect or because of the evident purpose of
the acts, etc., injuriously restrained trade . .. .
4See
also United States v. Trenton Potteries Co., 273 U. S. 392,
395-401; Radovich v. National Football League, 352 U. S. 445,
453-454. In this regard the Sherman Act should be contrasted with
§ 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act, 38 Stat. 719, as amended,

OCTOBER TERM, 1958.
Opinion of the Court.

359 U. S.

Group boycotts, or concerted refusals by traders to deal
with other traders, have long been held to be in the forbidden category.' They have not been saved by allegations that they were reasonable in the specific circumstances, nor by a failure to show that they "fixed or
regulated prices, parcelled out or limited production, or
brought about a deterioration in quality." Fashion Originators' Guild v. Federal Trade Comm'n, 312 U. S. 457,
466, 467-468. Cf. United States v. Trenton Potteries
Co., 273 U. S. 392. Even when they operated to lower
prices or temporarily to stimulate competition they were
banned. For, as this Court said in Kiefer-Stewelrt Co. v.
Seagram & Sons, 340 U. S. 211, 213, "such agreements,
no less than those to fix minimum prices, cripple the freedom of traders and thereby restrain their ability to sell in
accordance with their own judgment." Cf. United States
v. Patten, 226 U. S. 525, 542.
Plainly the allegations of this complaint disclose such
a boycott. This is not a case of a single trader refusing
to deal with another,6 nor even of a manufacturer and a
dealer agreeing to an exclusive distributorship. Alleged
15 U. S. C. § 45 (b), which requires that the Commission find "that
a proceeding by it . . . would be to the interest of the public" before
it issues a complaint for unfair competition. See Federal Trade
Comm'n v. Klesner, 280 U. S. 19, 27. But cf. Fashion Originators'
Guild v. Federal Trade Comm'n, 312 U. S. 457, 466-467.
5 See, e. g., Eastern States Lumber Assn. v. United States, 234
U. S. 600; Binderup v. Pathe Exchange, Inc., 263 U. S. 291; Fashion
Originators' Guild v. Federal Trade Comm'n, 312 U. S. 457; KieferStewart Co. v. Seagram & Sons, 340 U. S. 211, 214; Times-Picayune
Publishing Co. v. United States, 345 U. S. 594, 625; Northern Pacific
R. Go. v. United States, 356 U. S. 1, 5.
8 Compare United States v. Colgate & Co., 250 U. S. 300, with
United States v. Schrader's Son, Inc., 252 U. S. 85; United States
v. Bausch & Lomb Optical Co., 321 U. S. 707, 719-723; Lorain
Journal Co. v. United States, 342 U. S. 143.

KLOR'S v. BROADWAY-HALE STORES.
207

213

Opinion of the Court.

in this complaint is a wide combination consisting of
manufacturers, distributors and a retailer. This combination takes from Klor's its freedom to buy appliances in an open competitive market and drives it out
of business as a dealer in the defendants' products. It
deprives the manufacturers and distributors of their freedom to sell to Klor's at the same prices and conditions
made available to Broadway-Hale, and in some instances
forbids them from selling to it on any terms whatsoever.
It interferes with the natural flow of interstate commerce.
It clearly has, by its "nature" and "character," a "monopolistic tendency." As such it is not to be tolerated merely
because the victim is just one merchant whose business
is so small that his destruction makes little difference to
the economy.' Monopoly can as surely thrive by the
elimination of such small businessmen, one at a time, as
it can by driving them out in large groups. In recognition of this fact the Sherman Act has consistently been
read to forbid all contracts and combinations "which 'tend
to create a monopoly,'" whether "the tendency is a creep7 The court below relied heavily on Apex Hosiery Co. v. Leader,
310 U. S. 469, in reaching its conclusion. While some language
in that case can be read as supporting the position that no restraint
on trade is prohibited by § 1 of- the Sherman Act unless it has
or is intended to have an effect on market prices, such statements
must be considered in the light of the fact that the defendant in
that ease was a labor union. The Court in Apex recognized that
the Act is aimed primarily at combinations having commercial objectives and is applied only to a very limited extent to organizations,
like labor unions, which normally have other objectives. See United
States v. Hutcheson, 312 U. S. 219; Allen Bradley Co. v. Local 3,
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, 325 U. S. 797.
Moreover, cases subsequent to Apex have made clear that an effect
on prices is not essential to a Sherman Act violation. See, e. g.,
Fashion Originators' Guild v. Federal Trade Comm'n, 312 U. S.457,

466.

214

OCTOBER TERM, 1958.
Opinion of the Court.

359 U. S.

ing one" or "one that proceeds at full gallop." International Salt Co. v. United States, 332 U. S. 392, 396.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed and
the cause is remanded to the District Court for trial.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, believing that the allegations of
the complaint are sufficient to entitle the petitioner to go
to trial, and that the matters set forth in respondents'
affidavits are not necessarily sufficient to constitute a
defense irrespective of what the petitioner may be able
to prove at the trial, concurs in the result.

