OCTOBER TERM, 1958.
Syllabus.

359 U. S.

BIBB, DIRECTOR, DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC
SAFETY OF ILLINOIS, ET AL. v. NAVAJO
FREIGHT LINES, INC., ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 94. Argued March 30-31, 1959.-Decided May 25, 1959.
As applied to. interstate motor carriers operating under certificates
of public convenience and necessity issued by the Interstate Commerce Commission, the Illinois statute here involved, which requires
trucks and trailers operating on that State's highways to be
equipped with a specified type of rear fender mudguard which
would be illegal in Arkansas, which is different from those permitted
in at least 45 other States, and which would seriously interfere with
the "interline" 6perations of motor carriers, is' invalid because it
unduly and unr'easonably burdens interstate commerce in violation
of Art. I, § 8 of the Constitution. Pp. 521-530.
(a) Even state safety regulations must yield when they run
afoul of the policy of free trade reflected in the Commerce Clause.'
Pp. 523-524, 528-529.
(b) Interchanging mudguards on trucks and trailers at the
border 6f Illinois is a time-consuming task; - and the necessity to
use welding might mean that some trucks or trailers would havp to
be unloaded and loaded again-all of which adds tip to a serious
burden on interstate commerce fiot justified by a compelling need
for this new safety measure. Pp. 527-528.
(c) The record in this'case.shows that this is one of those exceptional cases where a state safety regulation in the exercise of the
police power places such a heavy burden on interstate commerce,
uncompensated by compelling advantages of safety, that it violates
the Commerce Clause. Pp. 529-530.
159 F. Supp. 385, affirmed.

William C. Wines, Assistant Attorney General of Illinois, argued the cause for appellants. With him on the
brief were Latham Castle; Attorney General of Illinois,

BIBB v. NAVAJO FREIGHT LINES.
520

Opinion of the Court.

and Raymond S. Sarnow and A. Zola Groves, Assistant
Attorneys General.
David Axelrod argued the cause for appellees. With
him on the brief were Jack Goodman and Carl L. Steiner.
MR. JUSTCE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
We are asked in this case to hold that an Illinois
statute 1 requiring the use of a certain type of rear fender
1 The state statute

(effective July 8, 1957)

in relevant part

provides:
"It is unlawful for any person to operate any motor vehicle of the
second division upon the highways of this state outside the corporate
limits of a city, village or incorporated town unless such vehicle is
equipped with rear fender splash guards which shall comply with
the specifications hereinafter provided in this Section; except that
any motor vehicle of the second division which is or has been purchased, new or used, prior to August 1, 1957 shall be equipped with
rear fender splash guards which are so attached as to prevent the
splashing of mud or water upon the windshield of other motor vehicles
and such splash guards on such vehicle shall not be required to
comply with the specifications hereinafter provided in this Section
until January 1, 1958.
. "The rear fender splash guards shall contour the- wheel in such
a manner that the relationship of the inside surface of any such splash
guard to the tread surface of the tire or wheel shall be relatively
parallel, both laterally and across the wheel, at least throughout
the top 90 degrees of the rear 180 degrees of the wheel surface;
provided however, on vehicles which have a clearance of less than
5 inches between the top of the tire or wheel and that part of the
body of the vehicle directly above the tire or wheel when the vehicle
is loaded to maximum legal capacity, the curved portion of the splash
guard need only extend from a point directly behind the center of
the rear axle and to the rear of the wheel surface upwards to within
at least 2 inches of the bottom line of the body when the vehicle
is loaded-to maximum legal capacity. On all vehicles to which this
Section applies, there shall be a downward extension of the curved
surface. which shall end not more than 10 inches from the ground

OCTOBER TERM, 1958.
Opinion of the Court.

359 U. S.

mudguard on trucks and trailers operated on the highways of that State conflicts with the Commerce Clause of
the Constitution. The statutory specification for this
type of mudguard provides that the guard shall contour
the rear wheel, with the inside surface being relatively
parallel to the top 90 degrees of the rear 180 degrees of
the whole surface 2 The surface of the guard must
extend downward to within 10 inches from the ground
when the truck is loaded to its maximum legal capacity.
The guards must be wide enough to cover the width of
the protected tire, must be installed not more than
6 inches from the tire surface when the vehicle is loaded
when the vehicle is loaded to maximum legal capacity. This downward extension shall be part of the curved surface or attached directly to said curved surface, but it need not contour the wheel.
"The splash guards shall be wide enough to cover the full tread
or treads of the tires being protected and shall be installed not
more than 6 inches from the tread surface of the tire or wheel when
the vehicle is loaded to maximum legal capacity. The splash guard
shall have a lip or flange on its outside edge to minimize side throw
and splash. The lip or flange shall extend toward the center of the
wheel, and'shall be perpendicular to and extend not less than 2 inches
below the inside or bottom surface line or plane of the guard.
"The splash guards may be constructed of a rigid or flexible material, but shall be attached in such a manner that, regardless of movement, either by the'splash guards or the vehicle, tLe splash guards will
retain their general parallel relationship to the tread surface of the
tire or wheel under all ordinary operating conditions." Ill. Rev.
Stat., 1957, c. 95/2, § 218b.
Motor vehi,Ics of the second division are defined as "Those vehicles
which are designed and used'4or pulling or.carrying freight and also
those vehicles or motor tars which are designed and used for the
carrying of more than seven persons." Ill. Rev. Stat., 1957,
c. 95/2, § 99 (b).
2 The specifications are somewhat modified if the clearance between
the top of the tire and the body of the vehicle directly above it is
less than 5 inches when the vehicle is loaded to its maximum legal
capacity.

BIBB v. NAVAJO FREIGHT LINES.
520

Opinion of the Court.

to maximum capacity, and must have a lip or flange on
its outer edge of not less, than 2 inches.'
Appellees, interstate motor carriers holding certificates
from the Interstate Commerce Commission, challenged
the constitutionality of the Illinois Act. A specially constituted three-judge District Court concluded that it
unduly and unreasonably burdened and obstructed interstate commerce, because it made the conventional or
straight mudflap, which is legal in at least 45 States,,
illegal in Illinois, and because the statute, taken together
with a Rule of the Arkansas Commerce Commission4
requiring straight mudflaps, rendered the use of the same
motor vehicle equipment in both States impossible. The
statute was declared to be violative of the Commerce
Clause and appellants were enjoined from enforcing it.
159 F. Supp. 385. AA appeal was taken and we. noted
probable jurisdiction. 358 U. S. 808.
The power of the State to regulate the use of its highways is broad and pervasive. We have recognized the
peculiarly local nature of this subject of safety, and have
upheld state statutes applicable alike to interstate and
intrastate commerce, despite the fact that they may have
an impact on interstate commerce. South CarolinaHighway Dept. v. Barnwell Bros., 303 U. S. 177; Maurer v.
Hamilton, 309 U. S. 598; Sproles v. Bin!ord, 286 U. S.
374. The regulation of highways "is akin to quarantine
3 There are certain exemptions from the statute, but their validity
or the validity of the statute in light of them is not questioned here.
But see Rudolph Express Co. v. Bibb, 15 Ill. 2d 76, 153 N. E. 2d 820.
No contention is here made that the statute diseriminates against
interstate commerce, and it is clear that its provisions apply alike
to vehicles in intrastate as well as in interstate commerce.- Nor is it
contended that the statute violates the Due Process Clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment. Cf. People v. Warren, 11 Ill. 2d 420, 143
N. E. 2d 28.
4 Arkansas Commerce Commission Rule 100, December' 13, 1957

495957 0-59-38

524

OCTOBER TERM, 1958.
Opinion of the Court.

359 U. S.

measures, game laws, and like local regulations of rivers,
harbors, piers, and docks, with respect to which the state
has exceptional scope for the exercise of its regulatory
power, and which, Congress not acting have been sustained even though they materially interfere with interstate commerce." Southern Pacific Co. v. Arizona, 325
U. S. 761, 783.
These safety measures carry a strong presumption of
validity when challenged in court. If there are alternative Ways of solving a problem, we do not sit to determine which of them is best suited to achieve a valid state
objective. Policy decisions are for the state legislature,
absent federal entry into the field.' Unless we can conclude on the' whole record that "the total effect of the law
as a safety measure in reducing accidents and casualties
is so slight or problematical as not to outweigh the
national interest in keeping interstate commerce free from
interferences which seriously impede it" (Southern Pacific Co. v. Arizona, supra, pp. 775-776.) we must uphold
the statute.
The District Court found that "since it is impossible
for a carrier operating in interstate commerce to determine
which of its equipment will be used in a particular area,
or on a particular day, or days, carriers operating into or
through Illinois . . .will be required to equip all their
trailers in accordance with the requirements of the Illinois
Splash Guard statute." With two possible exceptions
5It is not argued that there has been a pre-emption of the field by
federal regulation. While the Interstate Commerce Commission has,
pursuant to § 204 (a) of the Interstate Commerce Act (49 Stat. 546,
49. U. S. C. § 304 (a)), promulgated its Motor Carrier Safety. Regulations to govern vehicles operating in interstate Dr foreign commerce
(see 49 CFR, Pts. 190-197), it has expressly declined to establish any
requirements concerning wheel flaps, and has disclaimed any intention
to occupy the field or abrogate state regulations not inconsistent with
its standards. 54 M. C. C. 337, 354, 358.

BIBB v. NAVAJO FREIGHT LINES.
520

Opinion of the Court.

the mudflaps required in those States which have mudguard regulations would not' meet the standards required
by the Illinois statute. The cost of installing the contour
mudguards is $30 or more per vehicle. The District
Court found that the initial cost of installing those mudguards on all the trucks owned by the.appellees ranged
from $4,500 to $45,840. There was also evidence in the
record to indicate that the cost of maintenance and
replacement of these guards is substantial.
Illinois introduced evidence seeking to establish that
contour mudguards had a decided safety factor in that
they prevented the throwing of debris intothe faces of,
drivers of passing cars and into the windshields of a
following vehicle. But the District Court in its opinion
stated that it was "conclusively shown that the contour
mud flap possesses no advantages over the conventional
or straight mud flap previously required in Illinois 'and
presently required in most of the states" (159 F. Supp.,
at 388) and that "there is rather convincing testimony
that use of the contour flap creates hazards previously
unknown to those using the highways." Id., at 390.
These hazards were found to be occasioned by the fact
that this new type of mudguard tended to cause an
accumulation of heat in the brake drum, thus decreasing
the effectiveness of brakes, and by the fact that they were
susceptible of being hit and bumped when the trucks were
backed up and of falling off on the highway.
These findings on cost and on safety are not the end
of our problem. Local regulation of the weight of trucks
using the highways upheld in Sproles v. Binford, supra,
also involved increased financial burdens for interstate
carriers. State control of the width and weight of motor
trucks and trailers sustained in South CarolinaHighway
Dept. v. Barnwell Bros., supra, involved nice questions of
judgment concerning the need of those regulations so far
as the issue of safety was concerned. That case also prei

OCTOBER TERM, 1958.
Opinion of the Court.

359 U. S.

sented the problem whether interstate motor carriers,
who were required to replace all equipment or keep out
of the State, suffered an uncoristitutional restraint on
interstate commerce. The matter of safety was said to
be one essentially for the legislative judgment; and the
burden of redesigning or replacing equipment was said
to be a proper price to exact from interstate and intrastate
motor carriers alike. And the same conclusion was
reached in Maurer v. Hamilton, supra, where a state law
prohibited any motor carrier from carrying any other
vehicle above the cab of the carrier vehicle or over the
head of the operator of that vehicle. Cost taken into
consideration with other factors might be relevant in some
cases to the issue of burden on commerce. But it has
assumed no such proportions here. If we had here only
a question whether the cost of adjusting an interstate
operation to these new local safety regulations prescribed
by Illinois unduly burdened interstate commerce, we
would have to sustain the law under the authority of the
Sproles, Barnwell, and Maurer cases. The same result
would obtain if we had to resolve the much discussed
issues of safety presented in this case.
This case presents a different issue. The equipment in
the Sproles, Barnwell. and Maurer cases could pass muster
in any State, so far as the records in those cases reveal.
We were not faced there with the question whether one
State could prescribe standards for interstate carriers that,
wouldconflict with the standards of another State, making
it necessary, say, for an interstate carrier to shift its cargo
to differently designed vehicles once another state line
was reached. We had a related problem in Southern
Pacific Co. v. Arizona, supra, where the Court invalidated
a statute of Arizona prescribing a maximum length of 70
cars for freight trains moving through that State. More
closely in point is Morgan v. Virginia,328 U. S. 373, where
a local law required a reseating of passengers on interstate

BIBB v. NAVAJO FREIGHT LINES.
520

527.

Opinion of the Court.

busses entering Virginia in order to comply with a local
segregation law. Diverse seating arrangements for people
of. different'races imposed by several States interfered, we
concluded, with "the need for national uniformity in the
regulations for interstate travel." Id., at 386. Those
cases indicate the dimensions of our present problem.
An order of the 'Arkansas Commerce Commission,
alrea.dy mentioned,' requires that trailers operating in
that State be equipped with straight or conventional mudflaps. Vehicles equipped to meet the standards of the
Illinois statute would not comply with Arkansas standards, and vice versa. Thus if a trailer is to be operated
in both States, mudguards would have to be interchanged,
causing a significant delay in an operation where prompt
movement may be of the essence. It was found that
from two to lour hours of' labor are required-to install -or
remove a contour mudguard. Moreover, the contour
guard is attached to the trailer by welding and-if the
trailer is conveying a cargo of explosives (e-g., for the
United States Government) it would be exceedingly
dangerous to attempt to weld on a contour mudguard
without unloading the trailer.
It was also found that the Illinois statute seriously
interferes with the "interline" operations of motor carriers-that is to say, with the interchanging of trailers
between an originating carrier and another carrier when
the latter serves an area not served by the former. These"interline" operations provide a speedy through-service
for the shipper. Interlining contemplates the physical
,transfer of the entire trailer; there is no unloading and
reloading of the cargo. The interlining process is particularly vital in connection with shipment of perishables, which would spoil if unloaded before reaching their
destination, or with the movement of explosives carried
B

Note 4, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1958.
Qpinion of the Court.

359 U. S.

under seal. Of course, if the originating carrier never
operated in Illinois, it would not be expected to equip
its trailers with contour mudguards. Yet if an interchanged trailer of that carrier were hauled to or through
Illinois, the statute would require that it contain contour
guards.' Since carriers which operate in and through Illinois cannot compel the originating carriers to equip their
trailers with contour guards, they may be forced to cease
interlining with those who do not meet the Illinois
requirements. Over 60 percent of the business of 5 of
the 6 plaintiffs is interline traffic. For the other it constitutes 30 percent. All of the plaintiffs operate extensively in interstate commerce, and the annual mileage in
Illinois of none of them exceeds 7 percent of total mileage.
This in summary is the rather massive showing of burden on interstate commerce which appellees made at the
hearing.
Appellants did not attempt to rebut the appellees' showing that the statute in question severely burdens interstate commerce. Appellants' ',showing was aimed at
establishing that contour mudguards prevented the throwing. of debris into the faces of drivers of passing cars
and into the windshields of a following vehicle. They
concluded that, because-the Illinois statute is a reasonable exercise of the police power, a federal court is
precluded from weighing the relative merits of the contour mudguard against any other' lnd of mudguard and
must sustain the validity of the statute notwithstanding
the extent of the burden it imposes on interstate commerce. They rely in the main on South CarolinaHighway
Dept. v. Barnwell Bros., supra. There is language in that
opinion which, read in isolation from,'such later decisions
as Southern Pacific Co. v. Arizona, supra, and Morgan v.
Virginia, supra, would suggest that no showing of burden
on interstate commerce is sufficient to invalidate local

BIBB v. NAVAJO FREIGHT LINES.
520

Opinion of the Court.

safety regulations in absence of some element of discrimination against interstate commerce.
The various exercises by the States of their police power
stand, however, on an equal footing. All are entitled to
the same presumption of validity when challenged under
the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Lincoln Union v. Northwestern Co., 335 U. S. 525;
Day-Brite Lighting, Inc., v. Missouri, 342 U. S. 421;
Williamson v. Lee Optical Co.,. 348 U. S.483. Similarly
the various state regulatory statutes.are of equal dignity
when measured against the Commerce Clause. Local
regulations which would pass muster under the Due
Process Clause might nonetheless fail to survive other
challenges to constitutionality that. bring the Supremacy
Clause into play. Like any local law that conflicts
with federal regulatory measures (Califor-nia Comm'n v.
United States, 355 U. S.534; Service Storage & Transfer
Co. v. Virginia, 359 U. S.171), state regulations that run
afoul of the policy of free trade reflected in the Commerce
Clause must also bow.
This is one of those cases-few in number-where local
safety measures that are nondiscriminatory place an
unconstitutional burden on interstate commerce. This
conclusion is especially underlined by the deleterious
effect which the Illinois lawwill have on the "interline"
operation of interstate motor carriers. The conflict between the Arkansas regulation and the Illinois regulation also suggests- that this regulation of mudguards is
not one of those matters "admitting of diversity of treatment according to the special requirements of local con'ditions," to use the words of Chief Justice Hughes in
Sproles v. Binford, supra, at 390. A State which insists
on a design out of line with the requirements of almost all
the other States may sometimes place a great burden of
delay and inconvenience on those interstate motor carriers

OCTOBER TERM, 1958.
HARLAN,

J., concurring.

359 U. S.

entering or crossing its territory. Such a new safety
device-out of line with the requirements of .the other
States-may be so compelling that the innovating State
need not be the one to give way. But the present show-'
ing-balanced against the clear burden on commerce-is
far too inconclusive to make this mudguard meet that test.
We deal not with absolutes but with questions of degree,
The state legislatures plainly have great leeway in providing safety regulations for all ehicles-interstate as
well as local. Our decisions so hold. Yet the heavy
burden which the Illinois mudguard law places on the
interstate mQvement of trucks and trailers seems to us
to pass the permissible limits even for safety regulations.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN,

whom MR.

JUSTICE STEWART

joins, concurring.
The olpinion of the Court clearly demonstrates the
heavy burden, in terms of cost and interference with
"interlining," which the Illinois statute here involved
imposes on interstate commerce. In view of the findings
of the District Court, summarized on page 525 of the
Court's opinion and fully justified by the record, to the
effect that the. contcir mudflap "possesses no advantages" in terms of safety over the conve:ational flap permitted in all other States, and indeed creates certain
safety hazards, this heavy burden cannot be justified on
the theory that the Illinois statute is a necessary, appropriate, or helpful local safety measure. Accordingly, I
concur in the judgment of the Court.

