JANUARY TERM 1833.

IN THE* MATTER OF THE UNITED STATES V. EIGHTY-FOURBoxEs OF SUGAR, TUFTS AND CLARKE CLAIMANTS.
The claimants of eighty-four boxes of sugar, seized in the port of New Or.
leans, for an alleged breach of the revenue laws, and condemned as forfeited to the United States for having been entered as brown istead of
white sugar, claimed an app eal from the district court of the Uriited States
to the supreme court. The, sugars, while under seizure, were appraised at
two thousand s= hundred and two dollars and fifty-one cents; and after.
condemnation they.were sold for two thousand three hundred and thirtyeight dollarsand forty-eight cents; leaving, after deducting the expenses
and costs ofsale, the sun of two thousand one hundrea and fifty dollars and
sir cents. The duties ontlie sugars, considering them as white or brown,
being deducted from the amount, reduced thenet proceeds below two
thousand dollars, the amount upon wnch an appeal could be taken. Held,,
that the value m controversy was the value of the property at the time
of the sezre, exclusive of the duties, and that the claimant had a right
to appealto this court.
'The statute under which these sugars were seized and condemned, is ahiglily penal law, and'should, in conformity with the rule on the subject, be
construed strictly. If eitherthrough accident or mistake the sugars were
entered by a different denomination from what their qualityrequired, a
forfeiture is not incurred.

FROM the district court of the district of East Louisiana.
In the port of New Orleans, eighty-four boxes of sugar, imported from Matanzas, were entered as brown sugar, and were
seized by the officers of the customs for having been so enter,
ed, the same being alleged to be white sugar, and therefore forfeited'to the United States; a libel was filed against the whole
importation, but afterwards a part of the cargo was released,
and the proceedings in the libel were against the remaining
eighty-four boxes. The whole parcel had consisted of one
hundred and fifty-five boxes, of which seventy-one were marked B, and eighty-four marked C: The seventy-one boxes released were marked C, and of the eighty-four remainmg, seventy were marked B, and fourteen were marked C.
In the answer of the claimants, all fraudilent intention is
denied, and the character of the sugar, as entered, is asserted,

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Eighty-four Boxes of Sugar.]

and the claimants also allege, that if the contrary shall be adjudged by the court, th6 just conclusion should be that a istake has been committed, and not that a ftaud waq meditated.
The sugars while under seizure were appraised by two officers of the customs at two thousand six hundred and two dollars fifty-one cents. After their condemnation tbhy were sold
by the marshal of the United.States at a public sale for two
thousand three hundred and tlurty-eight dollars forty-eight
cents, leaving two thousand one hundred and fifty dollars six
cents after deducting the costs and the charges attending the
suit and sale. Upon the sugars Whether white or brown; the
duties amounted to a sum sufficient to reduce the net proceeds
below two thousand dollars,. considering the sugars as white
sugars these proceeds would be one thousand three hundred
and eighty-eight dollars thirty-six cents.
Testimony was taken as to the real nature and description
of the sugars, all of which was set forth in the record of the
proceedings ii the district court, and which is particularly referred to'in the opinion of this court. The district court conderaned the sugars as forfeited to the United States, for having
been entered under a false denommation, the entry stating
them to have been brown sugars and the court having adjudged them to have been white sugars.
The claimants prayed an appeal, which the district court
refused to allow, taking the giound that the value of the property in dispute was not above two thousand dollars: and insisting, that to ascertain the value, the duties must be deducted
from flie amount of sales, which deduction would leave a sum
much below two thousand dollars.
Upon this refusal, notice was given to ihe district judge and
distnct.attorney, of an application to this court for a mandamus, for the allowance of the appeal. And the case came
before the court upon a motion for such a mandamus. The
record in court being full, it was, to avoid delay, agreed
that if this court shall consider that the case admits of an appeal, it may, on the present transcript, proceed to decide the
merits of the cause.

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[United States v. Eighty-four Boxes of Sugar.]

The case was argued by Mr Mayer, for the appellants; and
by Mr Taney; attorney-general, for the United States.
For the appellants, Mr Mayer contended.
1. That. the value of the property in suit, in reference to the
right of appeal, is the amount of money into which it is convertible, and that the sales made in this case, are the best
test of the value of the sugar, and decide the value of property
in dispute to be abovze two thousand dollars, that in such a
case, to learn the value, the court ought not to make any deduction for the amount of duties-a subject, as regards value,
entirely collateral to the goods, the productive capacity of the
goods to yield the amount for paying the duties, being, in itself, a part of their essential value.
On the merits, he -contended
1. That the testimony shows that the sugars ought to be
considered brown.
2. Thatwhether adjudged brown or white, there is no ground
for forfeiture of the sugars, the testimony exhibiting justification for a belief that the sugars should be, or might be, denomnated brown, and the court's opinion, if to the contrary,
only settling a doubt, and at most establishing an error of judgment, and not a wilful deception.
That no presumption of fraudulent representation necessarily arises from showing a specification of an entry to be incorrect in regard to the commercial character or designation of
an article, when that incident of the article is speculative, or
may be variously interpreted, or when, at all events, as in this
case, it is variously defined by the opinions and expenence of
commercial witnesses.
3. That the testimony of the custom house officers is incompetent, that it is inadmissible, at least as-to declarations
of Mr Tufts, and that, under any view, it is entitled to but
little weight, siceq it must have been governed by the prepossessions which led themito seize the sugar, and tomes in aid
of tlir act of seizure
On tie point of jurisdiction, Mr Mayer argued, that the
value of the propeitv in question, in reference to the right of

SUPREME COURT.
tUnited States v. Eighty-four Boxes of Sugar.1

appeal, is commensurate with.the party's interest and is the
amount of money into which the sibject matter is convertible;
that the sales made in this case, are the best test of the value
of the sugar, and decide the value of property in dispute to be
above two thousand dollars; that, to learn the. value, the court
ought not to make any deduction for the amount of duties, a
subject, as regards value, entirely collateral to the goods; the
productive capacity of the goods to yield the amount for paying
the duties themselves being in itself a part of their essential value.
The lien of the United States on imported goods for the duties
gives the government no property in them, and does not impair
in any degree the proprietary interest of the individual throughout the whole property. No lien would have such an effect in
regard to the owner's interest; but the lien for duties is not
one of as proprietary a character as the lien of mortgage, or a
sailor's lien, or a judicial lien of.any kind. The existence of
the lien in no case extinguishes the personal liability. It does
not in case of duties; because, no matter what may be the fate
of the goods held for the dutiess the personal liability continues.
A mortgagor may insure the vessel mortgaged, without specif;'ng his interest as incumbered, and recover as owner. 2
Canfes's Rep. 19; Cames's Ca. Er. 124, 1 Johns. Rep. 385.
Even a mortgage of land is not in effect regarded as giving an
interest in the land, even at law; but is looked on as a mere
chattel interest. 11 Johns. Rep. 534, 15 Johns. Rep. 319.
The utmost, in respect of the duty claim, to be pretended by
the United States, is an interest in the proceeds of the goods
liable to duty; but such an interest is not an interest in the
properiy. In case of an insurance, an averment of interest in
the property would not be sustained by proof of right to the
proceeds. 11 Johns. Rep. .302.
Under the poor laws in England, property, though mortgaged, will "support a claim of settlement at its full value. as if
not mortgaged. 6 Term Rep. 755, 1 W BI. 598. A mortgagor of a ship cannot commit barratry, because deemed the
owner. Marsh. Ins. 528. A mortgage of a ship is regarded
as only a rightf by means of the ship to enforce payment of the
mortgage debt. *Themortgagor is liable for the ship's repairs,
as if no mortgage were made. I H. Blac. 117;, Abbott, 117.

JANUARY TERM 1833.

..457

[United States v. Eighty-four Boxes of Sugar.]

The questiolt of duties was not involved in this case in the
court below. The claim for the duties was not therefore to
be recognized by the court. The pretensions of the United
States in the case, were paramount to all ownership or claims
of duties, as the government demanded the whole property,
under the charge of unlawful importation. The obligation and
the claim for duties are incidental only to lawful importation.
It is therefore contradictory to the very nature of such a case
as the present, to assume that the claim for amount of duties
can be judicially known or regarded in it. But in the very
question of duties the owner of the goods has an interest, and
it may be a subject of judicial controversy; and what is the
value of that interest but the amount of the dutiesQ It is no
answer to say.that the property has been here condemned and
sold, and that the claimant can be restored only to the amount
of- sales remaining after deducting for the duties. For the
purposes of the appeal only, the judgment complained of, and
not the acts done in pursuance of the erroneous judgment, is to
be regarded. The appellate court can take notice of the execution of the erroneous judgment only after reversing the
judgment, and to determine the mode of doing justice to the
appellant on the reversal. The consequences of the judgment
constitute the ground of the complaint against it, and cannot
come in to sustain it. As regards the present question, the
sugars are to be treated as in their original specific condition.
'It is a cause of complant that they were not allowed to remain
so, but were converted into money, by adverse proceedings.
Suppose the importer had wished to use the merchandize
himself, would it not be deemed to be of the value to him of
the cost and the amount of duties I Or, suppose that he intended to export the property and receive the drawback; where
in such case is the propritary interest to the amount of duties
_ not these tobe consiof governmentin the merchandize 2 Are
dered by the court as rights, and rights of -property in the importer, respected by our revenue system7 But the theory of
the district court in this case would contravene all tlus pnvilege, on every fair inference to be drawn from its existence.
It may also be said too, that in reference to sales of merchandize even tor home consmnption, the amount of the duties is
VOL. VI.-3 H

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Eighty-four Boxes of Sugar.]

part of its worth, its value. It has been decided that the nporter is liable for duties, although another to whom he has
sold the merchandize before entry has given bond and security
for the duties. 1 Mason's Rep. 482. If the merehandize, while
held at the custom house for duties, is destroyed, still the
owner would be liable for the duties. Do not all these liabilities constitute an interest to the extent of the amount of duties
involved in theiii9 and, if so, that amount is part of the value
of the property -sconcerns the owner of it.
On the merits it was contended, that in a proceeding of forfeiture like this, the rules of evidence applying to penal or criminal proceedings are to be observed, and that, accordingly,
fi'audulent intention must be proved. Unexplained discrepancy between the entry and' the package may testify the
sinister purpose, but still the court must be satisfied of that
purpose having existed before it will condemn m a case of this
description. 9 Wheat. 430. 3 Wheat. 232. 6 Wheat. 120.
2 Mason, 48. 12 Wheat. 480. 1 Paine, 129, 499.
Whether adjudged brown or white, there is no ground for
forfeiture of the sugars, the testimony exhibiting justification fbr a belief that the sugars should, or might be, determined
brown, and the court's opinion to the contrary only settling a
doubt, and at most establishing an error of judgment and
not a wilful deception. no presurnption of fraudrltenc representation necessarily arises from showing a specification of
an entry to be incorrect in regard to the commercial character or designation of an article, when that incident of the article is speculative, ui may be variously inte preted, or when, at
all events, as in this case, it is variously defined by the opinions and experience of commercial witnesses.
Mr Taney, attorney-general, contended that the opinion of
the district judge of Louisiana in condemning the sugare, and
refusing. the appeal, was correct.
Mr Justice M'LEAN delivered the opinion of the Court,
This case is brought before the court, by an application for
a mandamus to be directed to the judge of the court of the,
United-States for the district of Lousiamna, requiring him to
allow an appeal from the judgment of that court.-

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[United States v.'Eightyfour Boxes of Sugar.]

In their petition the claimants state, that the eighty-four
boxes of sugar were consigned to them at New Orleans, and
that on their arrival, they were libelled by the United States
for an alleged breach of the revenue laws ;. that the sugars
were v6lued by the two custom house appraisers at two thousand six hundred and two dollars fifty-one cents-; that they
were afterwards condemned and sold by the marshal at public
sale, for two thousand three hundred and turty-eight xdollars
forty-eight cents, leaving two thousand one hundred and fifty
dollars six cents, after deducting the costs and charges of the
sale.
From the judgment of. condemnation the claimants prayed
an appeal to the -supreme court, which was refused, on the
ground that the value of the sugars, exclusive of duties, is
less than two thousand dollars.
By consent of parties, if the claimants shall, in the judgment of this court, be entitled to an appeal, the merits of the
case shall be considered as regularly before the court, for a
final decision.
Whether the claimants were entitled to an appeal, is the first
point to be considered.
The decision of this question depends on the amount in controversy If it be "less than two thousand dollars, the judgnient of the district court was final, and cannot be revised by
an appeal.
The judgmnt of condemnation was entered on the 9th of
April 1831, and on the 28th of the same month, under the
order of the court, the marshal sold the property.
On the 19th of April an appeal was prayed, and an orde,
was made, that the district attorney should show cause on the
23d of the same month, why an appeal should not be granted.
In his opinion against the right of the claimants to an appeal, the district judge says, that "the supreme court has lately, in the case of Gordon v. Ogden, decided, that the defendant cannot support an appeal, from a judgment obtained
against him in the court below for a less stun than two thousand dollars, because thatjudgment is the onlkr matter in dispute" "In this case," the judge says," "the thing demanded on
one side was the forfeiture of -a specific quantity of'sugar, and

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Eighty-four Boxes of Sugar.]

on the other the restoration of the same article, the value of
which did not amount to two thousand dollars." "1There
was no demand of duties, nor could such demand have been
takeli into consideration in the case then before the court.
There was no contest about the duties."
It will be observed that at the time the judgment of condemnation was entered, and also when the appeal was prayed,
the sugars remained in the bands of the proper officer. Suppose the judgment had been given for the restoration of the
property, in what form should it have been entered Q Could
any part of the property have been detained for the payment
of the duties 1 The duties were not then due, and could the
court have directed them to be paid, by the sale of a part of
the property"
A judgment in favour of the complainants in the district
court should have directed the property to be restored to them,
on the payment of the duties or securing them to be'paid, according to law. This would have given to the claimants the
whole amount of their property, as though no seizure of ifhad
been made. Under the law, they were entitled to a credit for
the playment of the duties, on the condition of giving bond and
security.
Does it not thus appear, that the whole. of the property was
the amount in dispute and would have gone into the possession of the claimants had the judgment of the court been in
their favour1 How then could it be said in the court below,
that the duties must be deducted from the value of the sugars;
as forming no part of the controversy, and that by such de.duction the value of the property was reduced below the
amount which entitles the claimants to an appeal I
If the claimants had given bond for the payment of the
duties, and a judgment of restoration had been entered by the
court, before any part of the duties became payable, should the
court have'directed them to be paid'I Such an order, under
iuch circumstances, would be oppressive and unjust.
The duties having been secured to the government, as the
law requires, no wrongful act on the part of the officers of the
government, could lessen %theterm of credit fixed by the law
und stated in the bond. And if no bond had been given, be-

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[United States v. Eighty-four Boxes of Sugar.]

cause of the seizure of the property or its restorations, the
claimants would lave been at least entitled to a credit for the
unexpired time allowed by law for -the payment of the duties,
on their giving the requisite bond and security.
The case must stand before this court on the appeal, as it
stood before the district court, at the time the appeal was
prayed. No subsequent action of the court in the sale of the
property can affect the question. Before this court, therefore,
the case must stand, on the judgment of condemnation, and
this, before the duties were payable by law. Was not the
entire property, and consequently, its full value, rii dispute
between the parties at the time judgment waa enteredq
On the one side a condemnation of the property is claimed,
on the ground that the revenue law has been violated, and on
the other a restoration of the property is demanded. In this
view, this court think the right of appeal from the judgment
of the ditnct court, was clear, as the value of the property in
controversy exceeded two thousand dollars.
The next inquiry is, whether the sugars were entered for
the payment of duties, under a false denomination, with a
view to defraud the revenue.
The sugars were entered as brown, on which a duty of
three cents per pound is paid, and. the libellants contend, that
they should have been entered as white, on which a duty of
four cents per pound is paid. The quality of the sugars can
only be ascertained by a reference to the proof in the case.
The witnesses diffir m their opinion as to the quality of these
sugars. Bertrand'and Smelser, two of the custom house officers,
say the sugars were white, and their testimony is corroborated
by five other witnesses. But a still greater number of witnesses,
embracing the largest impbrters of sugars at New Orleans, are
of the opinion that the sugars were properly denominated
brown, by.the importers. Some of the boxes.appeared to be
.whiter than others, but by far the greater number, as it would
seem from a majority of the. witnesses, were brown.
. W Zachane says that he.is engaged m the importation
of Havana sugars, and that had he been ordered to purchase
white sugar, he would not have purchased the sugars in question. That if he had entered these sugars. as brown. for the

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Eighty.four Boxes of Sugar.]

payment of duties, lie would not have considered himself as
practisng a fraud on the government.
A. Fiske states, that he knew sugar of superior quality imported as brown sugar, and that it is very difficult beforehand
for an importer to know how his sugar will be classed. He
says, when the qualities of superior brown and inferior w approximate, a very fair difference of opinion may exi"' .s to
the quality.
Mr Grant states, that he has bad great experience in white
Havana sugar. and after examining the samples of the sugars
shown him, says that a majority of them a brown, though
there may be a few boxes of white. He would not purchase
them as white, on an order for sugar of that quality.
A. R. Taylor and Joseph Cockayne state, substantially, the
same facts as Mr Grant.
Mr Suarez says that a portion of the sugar shown him has
been white, but being very old, it has become worse than
brown, and that he would not purchase it as white sugar. He
considers the entire lot brown.
J: H. Shepherd states substantially the same facts. It appears'±hat the planters in Havana mark their white sugars
with the letter B, and that the mark for brown is Q, and it
appears from the testimony of Bertrand, one of the custom
house officers, that he suspected a fr'aud was designed by the
importers, as he discovered the marks on the boxes had been
changed from B to Q. Two of the boxes had the letter B
still on them.
Whether these changes were made by the planter or the
importer does not appear; but Fiske and other witnesses state
that the marks which are placed on sugars in Havana, depend
very much on the fancy of the planters, and that they are
sometimes marked B, with the view of selling them higher.
There does not appear to be any thing in these marks which
shows that a fraud was contemplated by the importers. Any
such inference is rebutted by many respectable witnesses in
the case, who state that the sugars are of the quality denominated in the entry
The statute under which these sugars were seized and condemned is a highly penal law, and should, in conformity with

JANUARY TERM 1833.
(United States v. Eighty-four Boxes of Sugar.]

the rule on the subject, be construed strictly. If, either through
accident or nistake, the sugars were entered by a different denomination from what their quality required, a forfeiture is not
incurred.
Under all the circumstances of this case, the court thunk,
that the evidence not only fails to convict the claimants of
fraud, in the entry of these sugars by a false denomination, but
they think that the weight of testimony is in favour of the
quality of the sugars, as stated m the enrtry. They therefore
reverse the decree of the district court, and direct said court to
enter a decree, that the proceeds of these sugars be restored to
the complainants, if the duties shall have been paid, and if
they shall not have been paid, as they are now due, that the
restoration be of the balance of the proceeds, after deducting
the duties.
The court think there was probable cause of seizure, and
they direct the fact to be certified.

On consideration of the motion of the claimants, and of the
arguments of counsel, as well for the United States as for the
claimants, thereupon had, it is now here considered, ordered,
adjudged and decreed by this court, that a writ of mandamus,
as prayed for, be, and the same is hereby awarded, directed to
the judge of the district court of the United States for the eastern district of Lomsiana, ordering him to grant an appeal in
the premises.

