SUPREME COURT.

Ex

PARTE MARTHA BRADSTREET, IN THE MATTER' OF MARTHA
BRADSTREET, DEMANDANT.

Mandamus. In the district rourt of the northern district of New York,
writs of right were prosecuted for lands lying in that district, and neither-in the writs, or in the counts, was there an averment of the value of
the premises being sufficient in amount to give the courtjurisdctio). The
tenants appeared, and moved to dismiss the cause for want ofjurisdiction;
which motion was granted. Subsequently, the demandant moved to reinstate the cases and to amend, by inserting an averment that the premises
were of the value of five hundred dollars; which motion was demed by
thj court. The demandant also moved the court to compel full records
of.the judgments and orders of dismission, and of the process in the
several suits, to be made up and filed, so that the demandant might
,have the benefit of a writ of error to the supreme court, in order to have
its decision upon the grounds and merits of such judgments and ordem
The district court refused this motion. On a tule in the supreme court
for a mandamus to the district judge, and a return to the same, it was
held, that the refusal to allow the amendment to the writ and count, by
inserting the averment of the value of the property, was not the subject
of. examination in this court. The allowance of amendmenta to pleadings is in the "discretion of the judge of the inferior court; and no control
over the action of the judge in refusing or admitting them will be exer,
cised by this court. The court granted a mandamus requmng the distnct judge to have the records of the cases made up, and to enter judgments thereon, in order to give the demandant the benefit Df a writ of
error to the supreme court.
In cases where the demand is not for-money, and the nature of the action
does not require the value of the thing demanded to be stated in the de.
claratipn, the practice ofthis court, and of the courtsof the United States
has been, to allow the value to be given in evidence.
This court will not exercise any control over the proceedings of an inferior court of the United States, in allowing or refusing to allow emendments in the pleadings, -n cases depending m those courts, but Wery
party in such courts has a right to the judgment of this -court in a suit
brought in those courts, provided the matter ut dispute exceeds the value-of two thousand dollars.

AT the January term of this court in 1832, on the motion of
Mr Jones, counsel for the demandant, the court granted "a
rule on the district judge of the district court of the United
States for the northern district of New York, commanding him
td be and appear before this court, either in person or by an

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Ex parte Bradstreet.]

attorney of this court, on the first day of the next January term
of this court, to wit on the second Monday of Jaliuary, anne
Domini. 1833, to show cause, if any he have, why 4 mandamus
should not be awarded to the said district judge of the northern
district of New York, commanding hin,
11 1. To reinstate, and proceed to try and adjudge, according
to the law and right of the case, the several writs of right
and the mises thereon joined, lately pending in said court, and
said to have been dismissed by order ot said court, between
Miartlha Bradstreet, demandant, and Apollos Cboper et al.
tenants.
"2. Requiringsaid court to admit such amendments in the
form of pleading, or such evidence as may be .necessary to aver
or to ascertain the jurisdiction of said court, in the several suits
aforesaid.
"3.Or if sufficient cause should be shown by the said judge
on the return of this rule, or should otherwise appear to this
court, against awrit of mandamus requiring the matters and
things aforesaid to be done by the said judge, then to show
cause why a writ of mandamus should not issue from this court,
requiring the said judge to direct and cause full records of the
'judgments or orders of dismission in the -several suits aforesaid,
and of the processes of the same, to be duly made up and filed,
so as to enable this court to re-examine and decid& the grounds
and merits of such judgments or ordeys upon writs of error,
such records showing upon the face of each what judgments or
final orders dismissing, or otherwise definitively disposing of
said suits, were rendeted by the said district court, at whose
instance, upon what grounds, and what exceptions or objections were reserved or takeni by,said demandant, or on her
behalf, to the judgments or decisions of the said district court
in the premises, or to the motions whereon such judgments or
decisions were found, and what motion or motions, applica'tion or applications, were made to said court by the demandant,
or on her behalf, and either granted or overruled by said district court, both before and after said judgments or decisions
-dismissing or otherwise finally disposing of said suits, especiauy, what motions or applications were made by said demandant or on her behalf to said district court, to be admitted
to amend her counts in the said suits, or to produce evidence

SUPREME COURT
[Ex parte Bradstreet.)

to establish the value of the lands, &c. demanded in such
counts, together with all the papers filed, and proceedings had
in said suits respectively." 6 Peters, 774.
The honourable Alfred Concklin, judge of the district court
of the United States for the northern district of New York,
appeared before the court, byMr Beardsley his counsrl, and, in
pursuance of the rule, made the following statement as a return
thereto.
"To the supreme court of the United States. In answer
to a rule granted by your honourable court, the certified copy
'whereof, hereunto .annexed, was on the 21st of December
instant served upon him, the unaersigned begs leave respectfully to state, as follows:
"1. That after the. mises had been joined in the several
causes mentioned in the rule, motions were made thereto on
t'he part of the tenants that the same should be dismissed upon
the ground that the counts respectively contained no allegation
of the value of the matter in dispute; and that it did not'therefore appear by the pleadings that the causes were within the
jurisdiction of the court. In conformity with what appeared
to have been the uniform language. of the national courts upon
the question, and his own views of the law; And in accordance
especially with several decisions in the circuit court for the
third circuit (see 4 Wash. C. C. Rep. 482, 624), the undersigned grantea these motions. Assuming that the causes were
rightly dismissed, it follows of course that he ought not now to
ie required to reinstate them, unless leave ought also to be
granted to the demandant to amend her counts.
"12. After the dismissal of these causes as above stated, motions were made therein on the part of the demandant, that
the same should be reinstated, and that she should be permitted to amend her counts. These motions the undersigned
considered it to be his duty to deny; and he can, perhaps, in
no other manner menre properly show cause why he should not
now be required to do what he then refused to do, than by here
inserting a copy of the opinion which he delivered upon that
occasion. This opinion is as follows:
"' This cause having at a former term of the court been
dismissed upon the ground that it did not appear upon the face
of the demandant's count, that the case was one to which the

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Ex parte Bradstreet.]

jurisdiction of the court extends, a motion has been made by
the demandant, for leave to amend her count, and that the
cause be reinstated in court. There are also a great number
of other causes brought by the same demandant, standing in
exactly the same predicament, and depending, of course, upon
the decision of this. The question is therefore important, and
by no means free from difficulty. Under these circumstances,
and ample time having been afforded to the parties for thorough
investigation, it was expected that the question would have
been more fully and satisfactorily argued. It is incumbent
upon me however now to decide it, and I shall proceed
to peiform that duty. The defect m question is clearly one
in substance. It consists in the want of any averment in
the count of tne value of the land in dispute, an allegation,
without which the court will not ever take jurisdiction of the
cause.
"' The power of the national courts to grant amendments,
depends upon the thirty-second section of the judicial act
of September 24, 1789, which is as follows -[this quotation
is omitted as unnecessary to be here inserted]. With the
exception of the last clause of this section, it !s understood to
relate exclusively to defects -inmatters of form. No proceeding in civil cases is to be rendered ineffectual by reason of any
such defects; they are to be disregarded in giving judgment,
except when especially set down, as causes of demurrer; and are
to be amended of course, without the imposition of conditions.
To this extent the language of the section is also imperative.
The last clause of the section however extends, in terms, to
defects of every description in the process and pleadings, and
confers "upon the courts a discretionary power of pernittmg
amendments therein"upon such conditions as they shall direct.
Without stopping then to ascertain the precise limits of this
authority, it may be safely assumed that it extends to the case
before the court, and the true question for decision is, whether
this is a fit instance for its exercise. No affidavit has been
furnished as the foundation of the motion, and I do not understand it to be pretended that there are any circumstances of a
special nature, entitling the demandant to favour. Leaving
out of view, therefore, fbr the present, a peculiarity affecting

SUPREME COURT.
[Ex pite Bradstreet.]
the case which will be notioed in the sequel, the application
presents the naked question, whether, as a general rule, the
demandant in a writ of right ought to be allowed tp amend a
defect in substance.
"1 It is wholly unnecessary to refer to adjudications ir
the Engish common pleas (in which court alone this action
is cognizable in that country),. to show how such an application would be there decided. No one in the least degree
conversant with "the settled usage of that. court m this ret.
spect, can doubt that it would, without a moment?s hesitation,
be denied.. But as one of the reasons for the great strictness which prevails in England (viz, the long period of limitation against this action), does not exist in an equal degree
here, and as it is contended that this difference would of itself
warrant a relaxation of the rules which govern there it is important to advert to a iew of the English decisions, m order
the more clearly.to perceive to what extent this court would be.
obliged to depart from them, to permit an amendment in the
present case. In the case of Charlwood v. Morgan, 4 Bos.
and Pull. 64, a motion was made to amend the mistake of a
Christian name in the count, founcted upon an affidavit accounting for the mistake. The motion was however denied,
upon the ground that there was no precedent to warrant such
an amendment, the court at the same time declaring that they
should have been willing to amend had not the case before
them been a proceeding by writ of right. The demandant
then asked leave to discontinue; but this was also refused.
In the case of Maidment v. Jukes, 5 Bos. and Pull. 429, a
sidebar rule to discontinue having been entered, the court
ordered it to be set aside with costs.
"'And. in the very tecent case of Adams v. Radmay,
1 Marsh. 602, a motion was made, on the part of the demandant, for leave to quash the writ of summons to the four knights,
on the ground that no previous notice of executing it had been
served on the tenant's attorney. The application, it was urged,
was made in the demandant's own delay, ex major&cautela,
lest it should be objected that the tenant would have a right
to challenge the four knights. - But the motion was denied.
Lord Chief Justice Gibbs declaring the rule adopted on consi-

JANUARY TERM 1833.
(Ex parte Bradstreet.]

deration to be, that the court will not-assist a demandant in a
writ of right m getting over any difficulties that may occur to,
him. And the other judges concurred in what he said.
"' To this brief reference to English cases, I will only add,
that as far as I have been able to discover, the records of English jurisprudence furmsh no instance of a successful application by the demandant in a writ of right to amend.
" 'If then, in England, a demandant is not allowed to amend a
nmstake, even in a simple Christian name, though satisfactorily
accounted for, if he is not permitted to quash his own proceeding
to enable him to correct a slight informality, nor even to disconin short, no aid whatever will be granted
tinue his own suit, if,
in any difficulty into which he may have the misfortune to
fall, it is clear that to permit the amendment now applied for,
would not only be a wide departure from the established rule
in that country, but an unqualified rejection of it, for it would
be placing the writ of right in this respect upon a footing of
perfect.equality with the most favoured actions. Still, however, could I find myself warranted in such a course by the
decisions of the supreme court of this state, I should not hesitate to pursue it, though this is one of those questions upon
which the decisions of the state courts are not deemed obligatory upon the national courts. But the only case of this nature
in our own courts, referred to upon the argument, or which
I have been able to find, is that of Malcolm v. Roberts, reported
in 1 Cowen, 1. In that case the sheriff, in his return to a
writ of right, had stated that he had made proclamation at the
most usual door of the episcopal church in Beekman street,
called St George's chapel, in the second ward of the city of
New York, within which the tenements lay The tenant
having been called on th6 quarto die post, it was objected that
the return was defective under the statute of this state, although
in exact conformity with the English form of a return, in not
stating that the church mentioned in the return was the nearest church to the tenements in question. The court having,
after advisement, held the objection to be well taken, the questionwas, wvhether the sheriff should be permitted to amend his
return in this particular, it being admitted that the church at
which the proclamation was made, was in fact the nearest to
the tenements, and that the proceeding in itself had therefore

SUPREME COURT.
tfx parte Tadsltreet.]

been correct. It certainly is not easy to fancy a more favourable case than this for amendment, but I well remember the
strenuous and very protracted argument to which the court
deemed it their duty to listen before they determined to grant
the application.
" It does not appear that any such case has arisen in
England, nor does it by any means follow-from the decisions
of the common pleas, that even there such an application
would be denied. Indeed, it is said in one of the cases above
cited, that there might possibly arise a case in which an
amendment would be permitted. The case of Malcolm v.
Roberts, therefole, which I have already said is a solitary one
in this state, does not warrant the conclusion that the strictness
of the English practice in this respect had been relaxed, much
less that it has been wholly repudiated here. It is true that
one of the judges in that case remarked, that' the ancient
-strictness which prevailed-n real actions had been much relaxed by the late decisions; and as evidence of such a change
he stated, that he recollected a case in which, at the last term
of the court, a default and grand cape having been taken, the
default was set aside. I have searched for this case, but it
does not appear to have been reported. But (admitting, which
does not appear, that the case referred to by his honour was a
writ of right), it is to be observed, that in that case it was the
tenant, and not the demandant, who applied for relief. The
indefatigable reporter, however, whose well known and useful
practice it-was to collect all the important decisions tending
to confirm or illustrate the point decided, cite,%in a note, the
case of Van Bergen v. Palmer, 18 Johns. 504, in which the
default of the detnandant for not appearing upon the call of
the tenant, was set aside upon an affidavit satisfactorily excusing the default. But this, upon examinationD, turns out to
*havebeen idn action of dower; an action favoured in law, and
to which less strictness has been applied. However the fact
may be, therefore, it no where appears, as far as I have been
able to discover, except in the dictum in Malcolm v. Roberts,
above 'mentioned, that the ancient strictness against the demandant zn the writ of rnght has been rela. ed, eveit here. while
it is abundantly evident from the recent case of Adams v.
Radmay, cited above, (the latest case which I have found),

JANUARY TERM 1833.
Efx parte Bradatreet.]
that no such relaxatior: has .taken place m England. The
writ of right is an ancient common law remedy, injudiciously
adopted here, with all its cumbrous machinery and. useless
appendages; and in the absence of any authority for so doing,
I fear I should hardly be warranted in denying-that its peculiar disadvantages were also adopted along with it, and that
he who chooses to resort to it, must be content to take it with
all its imperfections on its head.
"' But there is a peculiar feature in this case which remarns
to be noticed, and which ought not to be without influence
upon its decision. By a recent statute of this state, the remedy
by writ of right is wholly abolished. The present action was
commenced aftet the enactment of this law, and just before it
went into operation. Whatever room there may have been,
therefore, before the passage of this act, for doubting whether
this action ought to be viewed by our courts in the light in
which it has already been regarded in England, as one by no
means entitled to favour, but to be discouraged, no such doubt
can now exist, since it has been abolished as an evil which
ought no longer to be tolerated. But this is not all.
,, 1I apprehend it may safely be assumed, that this act, taken
in connexion with the rule of this court adopting the practice
of the supreme court of this state, is to be regarded as applicable
to this court; so that no new action by writ of right can now be
prosecuted in this court. If this be so, it becomes a seriotis
question whether this, of itself, does not, upon authority, constitute an insuperable objection to this application. By the dismission of the cause, thp ,l'mandant has lost the power of further prosecuting it, and the application now is, first, for leave
to insert in the court an allegation indispensable to her right of
recovery in this court, and second, that the cause be thereupon
reinstated, without prejudice in court. Now, there is no action
in which the courts have been more liberal in permitting
amendments than that of ejectment; insomuch, that it has
been the uniform practice of the courts of England, as well as
m this state, to allow new dermses to be added, even after the
lapse of several years.
"' By an act of the legislature of this state, passed in
1813, suits against bona:fide purchasers for the recovery of
military bounty lands, were required to be commenced beVOL. VII.-4 F

SUPREME COURT
(Ex parte Bradstreet.]

fore the 1st day of January 1823. In the case of Jackson
v. Murray, I Cowen, 156, which was commenced before the
expiration of this period of limitation, an application was
made soon after its expiration, for leave to amend the declaration, by the insertion of a new demise. This motion was
denied upon the ground, that such an amendment, without
which it was clear the plaintiff could not recover; would be
equivalent to a new action, and would therefore be in violation
of the act of limitation. And this decision was afterwards referred to and vindicated by the court of errors. Now, I am not
able to distinguish the case before me, in principle, from that.
Here, too, by an act passed in 1828, the right to prosecute by
writ of right was limited to the 1st of January 1830; and if, in
the case cited, to grant the amendment prayed for would have
been equivalent to permitting a new action to be commenced,
it would be no less so here. Upon the whole, therefore, I am
of opinion, that it would be against authority, and indiscreet to
grant this motion, and it must accordingly be demed?
"3. After the denial of these motions, and at a subsequent
session of the court, motions were made by the demandant for
a rule requiring the tenants to make up and file records in the
several causes, for the purpose of enabling the demandant to
prosecute writs of error thereon. The application was resisted
by the counsel for the tenants, upon the ground that no final
judgment had been rendered, in these causes, subject to revision by writ of error. After taking time to examine -nd
consid& the question thus presented, the undersigned denied
these motions, upon the ground assumed by the counsel for
the tenants.
"With respect to this refusal to permit the demandant
to amend her counts, it is hardly necessary to remark that
as the application for this purpose was one, m its very
nature, addressed to the discretion of the court, it could
not be the foundation of a writ of error. And with regard
to the dismissal of these causes for want of an averment
necessary to give the court jurisdiction, he supposed that
a decision having no reference whatever to th.e merits of
the. controversy, which adjudicated'nothng incompatible with
the right of the demandant to institute a new suit for the
same cause of action even in the same court, but which

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Ex parte Bradstrect.]

merely declared that she had not shown as she was bound
to do that her causes were within the jurisdiction of the
court, and that on that account the court could not entertam them---could not be regarded as such a final judgment as
could be reviewed by writ of'error. A final judgment is
defined to be an adjudication upon the question whether the
plaintiff is .entitled, or is not,- to recover the remedy he sues for.
But the. adjudication in this case was, not that the demandant had no right to recover, but that she had not shown herself
entitled to sue m the -forum she had chosen. But even admitting this decision to have been a final judgment, and as such.
subject to revision by writ of error, still it- is respectfully submitted. that if your honourable court shall be satisfied that no
error has in fact been committed, you ought not to require
records to be made.up, for-no other purpose than to enable the.
demandant to prosecute writs of error which you already perceive must be fruitless. All which is respectfully submktted."
Mr seardsley, in support of the return of Judge Concklin,
statedi that the district court of the United States, for the
northern district of New York, possesses the ordinary jurisdiction of a circuit, as well as a district court. Its judgments,
when sitting as a circuit "ourt, may be brought directly before
this court for review, by writ of error., 4 Laws U. S. 679.
Martha Bradstreet, as demandant, prosecuted sundry writs
of rght in that court. Neither the original writs, or the counts
in these causes, contained any averment of the value of the premises in question.
The tenants appeared and entered pleas in these causes.
Subsequent motions were made, on the part of -the'tenants,
to disrss these causes for want of jurisdiction. The motions
were granted.
The demandant, at a later period, moved to reinstate the
causes, and amend, by inserting an averment that the premises
were of the value of five hundred dollars, &c. This.motion
was demed.
The court was also moved by the demandant to compel records to be made up in order that the judgments rmght be
reviewed by writ of error. These motiona were also refused.
On affidavits disclosing these -facts, this court made a rule

SUPREME COURT.
[Ex parte Bradstreet.)

at the last term, requiring the judge of 'the district court to
show cause why a mandamus should not issule to compel hnn,
1. To reinstate and try these causes, &c.
2. To permit such amendments to be made in the pleadings
as may be necessary to aver jurisdiction.
3. Or to require records to be made up and filed, so that. this
court may bring up the judgments by writ of error, &c.
To this rule the judge has answered, and has presented the
statement which is filed.
1. The first inquiry is, did the court below decide right in
refusing to permit the amendment to be made'
The defect is one of substance, not of form, and it is no!
therefore amendable of course. I Paine, 486. It might, per.
haps, well be doubted whether a court can, in any case, amend
in a matter necessary to give jurisdiction. It is, however,
believed, that a different rule has prevailed in the courts of
the United States, and therefore the proceeding will not, at this
time, be called in question.
It is then assumed that the court below had power to make
this amendment. It also had power to refuse to make it. No
special grounds were shown for granting these applications
to the court below no affidavit, in fact, was presented as a
foundation for the motion. Would the court grant it without affidavit Qproof q It was in the discretion of the court.
Has a demandant, in a writ of right, a rnght to amend of
course, on mere motion, without showing any cause, in a matter of substance I 1 Paine, 492. The answer of the judge
cites the authorities. 4 Bos. and Pull. 64, 5 Bos. and Pull.
429, 1 Marshall, 602, 1 Cowen, 1.
There is a further objection. Before these causes were
commenced, a statute was passed in New York abolishing
writs of right, after a certain day, -and which day amved before the motions to amend were made. When the motions to
amend, therefore, -were made, such actions could not be brought
in New York in its own courts. That statute was equally applicable to the district court, so that no writ of right could
then be -prosecuted in that court.
This was a good objection to the amendment. The amendmert would have been an evasion of the statute abolishing
writs of 'right it would, in effect, have given an action which

JANUARY TERM 1683.
(Exparte Bramtreet.]

had been abolished,-virtually repealing tne statute. Cited.
bythe judge, I Cowen, 156, 2 Durn. and East, 707, 708,
6 Durn. and East, 171, 54, 17 John. 346.
It is submitted that the 'district judge, in refusing to allow
the amendments, decided correctly. But if he did not, .this
court will not proceed by a mandamus to correct his errors.
Such a proceeding is not an exercise of original jurisdiction,
and if it is the employment of the appellate power of this court,
it cannot be used in this form. Congress may extend the
powers of this court to any cases under the constitution of judicial cognizance, but they have not given the power by pro.
ceedibgs for a mandamus to examine ihto the action of the
inferior courts in matters of this description. The power to
issue a mandamus exists under tfle fourteenth section of the
judiciary act of 1789; and it does not comprehend this case.
The writ of mandamus is never used for such purposes.
It does not lie to control or coerce the discretion of a subordinate tribunal. 1 Wend. 299, 1 Cow. 423, 2 Cow. 458,
483, 6 Cow. 39.3, 7 Cow. 363, 523; 1 Paine, 453.
No doubt is entertained of the power of this court to award a
mandamus for the last purpose indicated in the rule, that is, to
compel records to besmade up and filed. 1 Paine, 455. This
court may review the judgments of the district court by writ
of error. But no such judgment can be brought up until a
record has been filed.
This court may compel such record to be filed. That power
Is "necessary," to enable this court to- exercise its jurisdiction
by writ of error. The writ of mandamus is, for that purpose,
"agreeable to the principles and usages of law." This court
then, for that purpose, may award it. For that purpose the
parties interested in this case 'have no objection that it should
issue.
What will it bnng up ? Ajuugment of the court disnssmg
the cause for want of junsdictiov. If that judgment was correct, itmust be affirmed. Let it be brought here if the. demandant asks it. Whether it is a final judgment, has not
been examined, nor is it regarded as material. Perhaps, however, the better oumion is, that it is not a final judgment.
Judgments of nonsuit cannot be removed by writ of error.

SUPREME COURT.
[Ex parte Bradstreet.]

3 Dall. 401, 4 Dali. 22, 4 Wheat. 73, 5 Cranch, 280; 7
Cranch, 152.
On a writ of error to an inferior tribunal, which had given a
judgment on the merits, if it appears from the pleadings that
the court below had no jurisdiction, this court cannot award a
vemre de novo. 3 DalI. 19. Then why require a record to
be made out Q These matters are stated not as objections; for
none are made, if these were in fact final judgments. So far
the jurisdiction of this court is conceded.
But it may perhaps be said on the other side, that the judgments which have been rendered are not final judgments; and
therefore not removable by.writ of error. That it is therefore
proper to compel the court to reinstate and try the causes, to
the end that final judgments may be rendered. 6 Wheat.
601, 602, 6 Peters, 657, 2 Laws U. S. 64, 22.
For what end reinstate, try and determine them ' If judgments should pass in favour of the demandant, they would
be erroneous. She therefore cannot desire such judgments.
The pleadings being defective, and fatally so, she cannot
possibly have a valid judgment on them. If rendered -m her
favour. it would be erroneous if rendered against her, she
could not reverse it. No vemre de novo could be awarded in
such case. 3 Dall. 19.
But if this.court may compel the court below by mandamus
to reinstate and try the causes, and render final judgments
therein, yet it cannot, as it is supposed, compel that court to
grant the amendments asked for. The judgments will be just
as final without as with the amendments.
It has already been said that a mandamus does not lie to
coerce the discretionof a subordinate tribunal. Now it is insisted that it was discretionarywith the court below to make, or
refuse to make this amendment. That the question was for
that court alone, and that it cannot be controlled here.
Under the act of congress, amendments, like the one in
question, are not demandable of right.
1. The juticiary act of 1789 (sect. 32), in its first clause,
declares that no summons, &c. shall be abated, &c. 11for any
defect or want of form." But this is not a formal defect. it is
one of substance.

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Ex parte Bradstreet.]

2. lhat section declares that the court may amend any.defect upon such conditions as the court, in its discretion shall
prescribe. This section gives perhaps full power to the court
below to make the amendment. But it is to be made on condition, such condition as the court mits diseretionshall prescribe.
Permitting amendments is a matter of discretion. Cited,
5 Cranch, 17, 2 Peters's Cond. Rep. 175; 6 Cranch, 267, n., 6
Cranch, 217, 2 Peters's Cond. Rep. 351, 9 Wheat. 576, 11
Wheat. 280, 3 Peters, 32, 6 Peters, 656, 1 Paine, 456, 457.
The court below therefore is not compellable by mandamus
to allow them.
It is then submitted to the court.
1. That the court below decided correctly in refusing the
amendment-it being a writ of right. It would not have been
made in England. It should not have been made -when moved,
as no writof right could then have been prosecuted in NewYork.
2. It was not at all courts a matter resting rnthe discretion
of that court, which cannot be controlled by a mandamus.
Mr Jones, for the defendailt.
Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion, of the
Court.
After hearing -counsel, and considering the cause shown by
ihe honorable the judge for the court of the Uni-ed States for
the northern district -f New York; this court is of opinion that
it ought not to exercise any control over the proceedings of
the district court l'allowihg or refusing to allow amendments
in the pleadings; but that every party has waright -tothe judgment of this court in a suit brought by him in one of the
inferior courts of the United States, provided the matter in
dispute exceeds the sum or value of two thousand dollars.
In cases where the demand is not for money, and the nature
of the action does not require the value of the thing demanded
to be stated in the declaration, the practice of this court, and
of the courts of the United States, is, to allow the value to be
given in evidence. In pursuance of this.prac.tice, the demandant in the suits dismissed by order of the judge of the district
court, had a right to give the value of the.property demanded:
in evidence, at or before the trial of the cause, and would

SUPREME COURT.
[Ex parte Bradstreet.1

have a right to give it in evidence in this court. Consequently
he cannot be legally prevented from bringing his case before
this tribunal. The court doth therefore direct that a mandamus be awarded to the judge of the court of the United States
for the northern district of New York, requiring the said judge
to reinstate, and proceed to try and adjudge according to the
right of the case, the several writs of right, and the mises
thereon joined, lately pending in said court, between Martha
Bradstreet, demandant, and Apollos Cooper et al. tenants.
The following mandamus was issued by order of the court.
United States of America, ss.
To the honourable Alfred Concklin, judge of the district
court of the United States for the northern district of New
York, greeting
Whereas, one Martha Bradstreet hath heretofore commenced
and prosecuted, m your court, several certain real actions, or
writs of right, in your court lately pending between the said
Martha Bradstreet, demandant, and the following named tenants severally and respectively, to wit, Apollos Cooper and
others [naming them]. And whereas, heretofore, to wit, at a
session of the supreme court of the United States, held at
Washington on the second Monday of January in the year
1832, it appeared, upon the complaint of the said Martha
Bradstreet, among other things, that at a session of your said
court, lately before holden by you, according to law, all and
singular the said writs of rght'then and there pending before
your said court, upon the several motions of the tenants aforesaid, were dismissed for the reason that there was no averment
of the pecuniary value of the lands demanded by the said demandant in the several counts filed and exhibited by the said
demandant against the several tenants aforesaid, which orders
of your -said court, so dismissing the said actions, were against
the will and consent of said demandant whereupon the said
supreme court, at the instance of said demandant, granted a
rule requiring you to show cause, if any you had, among other
things, why a writ of mandamus from the said supreme court,
should not be awarded and issued to you, commanding you to
reinstate and proceed to try and adjudge, according to the law
and right of the case, the several writs of right aforesaid, and
the minses therein joined. And whereas, .at the late sess-

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Ex parte Bradstreet.]

ion of the said supreme court held at Washington On tile
second Monday of January in the year 1833, you certified. and
returned to the said supreme court, together with the said
rule, that after the mises had been joined in the several causes
mentioned in the said rule, motions were made therein, on the
part of the tenants, that the same should be dismissed -upon
the ground that the counts respectfully contained no allegation of the value of the matter in dispute, and that it did not
therefore appear, by the pleadings, that the causes were within
the jurisdiction of the court, that, in conformity with what
appeared to have been tie uniform language of the national
courts upon the question, and your own views of the law, and
in accordance especially with several decisions in 'the circuit
court for the third circuit (see 4 Wash. C. C. Rep. 482, 624),
you granted their motions, and assuming that the causes were
rightly dismissed, it follows of course that you ought not to be
required to reinstate them, unless leave ought also to be granted to the demandant to amnend her counts and whereas, afterwards, to Wit at the same session of the said supreme coutt
last aforesaid, upon consideration of your said return and of
the cause shown by you therein against the said' rule's being
made absolute, and against the awarding and issuing of the
said writ of mandamus, and upon consideration of the arguments of counsel, as well on your behalf, showing cause as
aforesaid, as on behalf of the said demandant, in support of the
said rule, it was considered by the said supreme court, that
you had certified aii(1 returned to the said court an insufficient
cause for having dismissed, the said actions, and against the
awarding aid issuing of the said writ of mandamus, pursuant
to the rule aforesaid, the said supreme court being of opinon,
and having determined and adjudged upon the matter aforesaid, that in cases where the demand is not -made for nmoney,
and the nature of the action does not require the value of the
thing demanded to be stated in the declaration,. the practice of
(ie said supreme court, and of the courts of the United States, is
to allow the value to be given in evidence that, iin pursuance
of this practice, the deinandant in the suits dismissed by order
of the judge of the district court, had a right to give the value
of the property demanded ii evidence, either at or before the
trial of the cause, and would have a right to give it in evidence
VOL. VII.--4 G

SUPREME COURT:
[Ex parte Bradstreet]
in the said supreme court, conseqiently that she cannot be
legally prevented from bringing her cases before the said supreme court, and it was also. then and there considered by
the said supreme court that the peremptory writ of the United
States issue requiring and commanding yon, the said judge ofthe said -district court, to reinstate -and proceed to try and ad.judge, according to the law and right of the case, the several
writs of right and the mises therein joined, lately pending in
your said court between the said Martha Bradstreet, demandant, and Apollos Cooper and others, the tenants aforesaid
therefore, you are hereby commanded and enjoined, that. mmediately after the receipt of this writ, and without delay, you
reinstate and proceed to try and adjudge, according to the
law.and right of the case, the several wnts of right and the
niises thereintjoined, lately pending in your said court between
the said Martha Bradstreet, demandant, and the said ApoUos
Cooper and others, the tenants herein above named, so that
complaint be not again made to the said supreme court, and
that you certify perfect obedience and due execution of this
writ to the said supreme court, to be held on the first Monday
in. Aligust next. Hereof fail not at your peril, and have then
there this writ.
Witness the lionourable John Marshall, chef justice of saidsupreme court, the second Monday of January. in the year of
our Lord one thousand eight hundred and lirty-three.
W T. CARROL,
Clerk of the supreme court of the United States.

