568

SUPREME COURT.

EX PARTS TOBIAS WATKINS.
Habeas corpus. W., at May term 1829 of the circuit court of the district
of Columbia, was tried upon three indictments for offences against the
United States, and was sentenced on each to imprisonment for three
months, and to pay a fine, on one indictment of two thousand dollars, on
another of seven hundred and fifty dollars, and on another of three hundred dollars, with the costs of prosecution. No award was made on either
judgment, that.W should stan committed until the sentence be performed; V was, under these sentences, committed to jail by the then
marshal of the district, and upon the expiration of his office, and the
appointment of his successor, after the term of W Is imprisonment was
exhausted, lie was delivered over in jail, with other prisoners, to his successor, and has ever since been detained in custody. The time of imprisonment expired on the 14th May 1830. On the 3d September 1829,
-the district attorney sued forth three several writs of fierL facias to levy
the fines, which were returned "nulls bona2' On the 16th February
1830, three writs of capias ad satisfaciendum were issued against W for
the fines, returnable to the next term of the court in May, which writs
commanded the marshal to take W., and him safely keep, and have his
body before the circuit court on the first Monday of the term, to satisfy
the United States for the fines mid costs, &c. No return was madeto the
court by the marshal, according to the exigency of the writ, and nothing
further was done until the 10th day of January 1833; when the late marshal of the district made a return to each writ of capias ad satisfaciendum
"ccepi and delivered over to my successor in office." W petitioned the
court for a habeas corpus, asserting that 'he was illegally confined. The
court awarded the writ; and on the return thereof, discharged the prisoner
from confinement.
This court has authority to award a habeas corpus upon this state of facts.
As it is the exercise of the appellate power of the court to award the
writ, it is within its jurisdiction to do so. It is revising the effect of the
process of the circuit court under wich the prisoner is detained; and is
not the exercise of original jurisdiction.
The eighth amendment to the constitution of the United States, which declares that excessive fines shall not oe imposed, is addressed to courts of
the United States exercising criminal jurisdiction, and is doubtless mandatory to, and a limitation upon their discretion. But this court have no
appellate jurisdiction to revise the sentences of inferior courts, in criminal
cases; and cannot, even if the excess of the fine was apparent on the
record, reverse the sentence.
he prisoner could not be detained in jail longer than the return day of the
processi and 110 should then have been brought into the circuit court and
committed, by order of the court, to the custody of the marshal, for pay-

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Ex parte Watkins.]
ment of the fine. This not having been done, by the law of faryland,
which is the law of the part of the district of Columbia in which is situated
the city of Washington, he is entitled to be discharged from confinement
under the process.

TOBIAS WATKINS, by Mr Brent, his counsel, presented a
.petition to the court, setting forth that' at the term of the circuit court of the district of Columbia, holden for the county
of Washington, on.the first Monday of May 1829, certain presentments and indictments were found against him, upon three
of which indictments trials were had and verdicts passed
against him, and judgments on such verdicts respectively were
pronounced by the court, purporting to condemn him to certain
terms of imprisonment, and also to the payment of certain
pecuniary fines and costs, for the supposed offences therein.
For the nature of those proceedings the petitioner referred to
the exemplifications filed in this court, with an application made
to the court at January term 1 8 3 0 , 3 Peters's Rep. 193. The
petition stated that immediately after the rendition of such
judgments, and in pretended execution of the same, on the
14th day of August 1829, he, the petitioner, was committed to
the common jail of the county of Waslungton, and there remamneji until the terms of imprisonment imposed by the several judgments had expired, the same having expired on the
14th day of.May 1830 and that: ever since that time he has
been, and still is. detained m the criminal apartment of the
prison, under the colour and pretence of authority, not only of
the judgments, but of three certain writs issued on the 16th day
of February 1830, bythe clerk.of the circuit court of Washington
county, by special orders of the district attorney of the United
States for the district of Columbia, as he has been informed
and believes, at the request and by direction of the president
of the United States. That he is illegally detained in prison
by the authority of the said writs, as he is well advised, and
avers that they give no authority for his commitment and detention, having been not only illegally and oppressively issued,
but he has been by them deprived of the privilege secured to
him by the laws of the land, to be released from imprisonment
on the ground of his insolvency, and being unable to pay his
debts.
VOL. V1.-3 W

SUPREME COURT.
[Ex parte Watkins.]

The writs gave no authority for his present detention and
imprisonment, for a longer period than the first Monday in May
1830, since which time, even admitting the writs to have
been legally issued, his inprisonment has been illegal and oppressive, abd without any authority whatever. That the fines
are excessive, and as such, contrary to the laws of the land, as
he was at the time they were imposed, and ever since has been
unable to pay the same, and it is not the law of the land that
a citizen shall be confined for life for finrs which he cannot
pay. He has been refused the benefit of the insolvent laws,
and if relief cannot be obtained from this court, from his minability to pay the fines he will be confined for life.
The petition "prays the benefit of the writ of habeas corpus
to be directed to the marshal of the district of Columbia, in
whose custody, as keeper of said jail, your petitioner is, commanding him to bnng before your honours the body of your
petitioner, together with the cause of his commitment, and
especially commanding him to return with said writ, the record
of the proceedings upon. said indictments, with the judgments
thereupon, and the several writs under the supposed authority
of which your petitioner is now detained, and to certify
whether your petitioner be not actually imprisoned and detamed; as aforesaid, 'in a criminal apartment of said jail, by
the supposed authority, and in-virtue of said several writs."
The court granted a rule to show cause returnable on a subsequent day-of the tern.
The case was argued by Mr Brent and Mr Coxe, for the
relator, and by Mr Taney, attorney-general for the United
States.
Mr Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is an application to the court to award a writ of habeas
corpus to bring up the body of Tobias Watkns a prisoner, asserted to be illegally confined in the common jail of Wash•lng.on county in .the district of Columbia, under process of
execution issued from the oircuit court of the United States for
the same district. A rule wa served upon the attorney-general, to show cause why the application should not be granted,
and the cause has been fullv argued upon the return of that

JANUARY. TERM 1833.
[Ex parte Watkins.]

rule. It is admitted that all the facts existing in the case
have been laid before the court, exactly as they would appear
if the habeas corpus had been duly awarded and returned, so
that the judgment which the court are called upon to pronounce, is precisely that which ought to be pronounced upon
a full hearing upon the return to the writ of habeas corpus, and
it has accordingly been so argued at the bar.
The material facts are as follows. Watkins was tried at the
May term of the circuit court 1829, upon three several indictments found against him at that term for certain offences
against the United States, and being found guilty, was upon
each indictment sentenced to imprisonment for three calendar
months, and to pay certain fines, to wit, on one indictment two
thousand dollars, on another, seven hundred and fifty dollars,
and on a third three hundred dollars, with costs of prosecution.
There is no award in either of the judgruents, that the prisoner
stand committed until the sentence beperformed. Under these
sentences Watkins was immediately committed to jail by the
then marshal of the district, and -upon the expiration of his
office, which was after the term of imprisonment was exhausted, and the appointment of a successor, lie was delivered over,
in jail with other prisoners to his successor, and lie has ever
since been detaned in custody. The terms of imprisonment
awarded by the judgments expired on the 14th of May 1830.
On the 3d day of September 1829, the district attorney sued
forth three several writs of fien facias, to levy-the aforesaidfines;
upon which due return was made by the marshal of nuilla
bona. Upon the 16th of-February 1830, the district attorney
sued forth three several writs of capias ad satisfaciendurn
against Watkins to levy time same fines, wich were all returnable to the then next May term of the circuit court. By these
precepts the marshal is commanded to take Watkins, and h]n
safly keep, so that lie have lis body-before the circuit court
on the first Monday .of May then next, to satisfy unto -the
United States the fine, costs and charges. No return was
made-to the circuit court by the marshal according to the exigency of these writs, and nothing further appears upon the.
records and proceedings of the court until the O1th day of January 1833; when the late marshal of thi district made.a return

SUPREME COURT.
[Ex parte Watkins.]

to each capias ad satisfaciendum as follows. "Cepi. Delivered
over to my successor in office."
Upon this state of the facts several questions have arisen
and been argued at the bar, and one, which is preliminary
its nature, at the suggestion of the court. This is, whether,
under the circumstances of the case, the court possess jurisdiction to award the writ. And upon full consideration we are of
opinion that the court do possess jurisdiction. The question
turns upon this, whether it is an exercise of original or appellate jurisdiction. If it be the former, then, as the present is
not one of the cases in which the constitution allows this court
to exercise original jurisdiction, the writ must be denied. Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch's Rep. 137, S. C. 1 Peters's Cond.
Rep. 267. If the latter, then it may be awarded, since the
judiciary act of 1789, ch. 20, sect. 14, has clearly authorized
the court to issue it. This was decided m the case Ex parte
Hamilton, 3 Dal. 17, Ex parte Bollman and Swartwout, 4
Cranch, 75, and Ex parte Keamey, 7 Wheat. Rep. 38. The
doubt was whether, in the actual case before the court, the
jurisdiction sought to be exercised was not original, since it
brought into question, not the validity of the original process
of capias ad satisfaciendum, but the present right 6f detainer
of.the prisoner under it. Upon further reflection, however, the
doubt has been removed.
The award of the capias ad satisfaciendum must be considered as the act of the circuit court, 'itbeing judicial process,
issuing under the authority of the court. The party is m
custody under that process. He is then in custody, m contemplation of law, under the award of process by the court.
Whether he is rightfully so, is the very question now to be decided. If the court should, upon the hearing, decide that the
capias ad satisfaciendum justifies the present detainer, and
should remand the prisoner, it would clearly be an exercise of
appellate jurisdiction, for it would be a revision and confirmation of the act of the court below. But the jurisdiction of the
court can never depend upon its decision upon the merits of a
case brought before it, but upon its right to hear and decide it
at all. In Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch, 137, it was said,
that it is the essential criterion of appellate jurisdiction that it

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Ex parte Watkins.)

revises and corrects the proceedings in a cause already instituted, and does not create that cause.
Tried by this criterior, the case before us comes in an appellate
form, for it seeks to revise the acts of the circuit court. In Ex
parte Bolman and Swartwout, 4 Cranch, 75, the prisoners were
in custody under an order of commitment of the circuit court,
and it was held, that an award of a writ of habeas corpus by the
supreme courtwas an exercise of appellate jurisdiction. On that-.
occasion the court said, so far as the case of Marbury v. Madison
had distinguished between original and appellate jurisdiction,
that which the court is asked to exercise is clearly appellate.
It is the decision of an inferior court, by which a citizen has
been committed to jail. Ex parte Hamilton, 3 Dall. 17, was
a commitment under a warrant by a district judge, and the
supreme court awarded a writ of habeas corpus to revise the
decision, and admitted the party to bail. In Ex parte Burford;
3 Cranch, 448, the prisoner was in custody under a commitment by the circuit court for want of giving a recognizance for
his good behaviour, as awarded by the court. The supreme
court relieved hun on a-writ of habeas corpus. In all these
cases the issuing of the writ was treated as an exercise of appellate jurisdiction, and it could make no difference in the
right of the court to entertain jurisdiction, whether the proceedings of the court below were annulled or confirmed. Considering then, as we do, that 'we are but revising the effect of
the process awarded by the circuit court, under which the
prisoner is detained, we cannot say that it is the exercise of anoriginal jursdiction.
The grounds principally relied on to entitle the prisoner.to
be discharged are First, that ,thc fines imposed upon him are
excessive, and contrary to'the eighth amendment of the constitution, which declares, that excessive fines shall not be enforced. Secondly, that the prisoner- could not be detained ih
jail on the capias ad satisfaciendum longer than the return day
of the process, and lie should then have been brought into the
circuit court, .and committed by order of the court to the custody of the marshal for payment of the fine otherwise by the
laws of Maryland (which is the law of this part of the distnct),' he was entitled to his discharge.
The first point may be very' shortly disposed of' The

•SUPREME COURT.
[Ex parte Watkins.]

eighth amendment is addressed to courts of the United Statds
exercising criminal jurisdiction, -and is doubtless mandatory to
them and a lhnitation upon their discretion. But this court
has no appellate jirisdiction to revise the sentences of inferior
courts in criminal cases; and- cannot, even if the excess of the
fine were apparent on the record, reverse the sentence. And
it may be added that if this court possessed such a jurisdiction,
there is nothing on the- record in this case, which establishes
that at the time of passing judgment the present fines were
in fact, or were shown to the circuit court to be excessive. This
objection may therefore be dismissed.
The otherground is of far more importance and difficulty.
At the common law, whenever a fine and imprisonment constitute a part of the judgment upon a conviction in a criminal
case, the judgment, if the party is in.court, is that he be committed to jail in execution of the sentence, and until the fine
is paid. If he .s not then in court, a. special writ of capias
pro fine issues against him, the exigency of ;vich is, that his
body be taken and committed to jail until the fine is paid(a).
Unless such a committitur be awarded, he cannot be detained
in jail in execution of the sentence. It is the warrant of the
jailor, authorizing the. detention .of the prisoner. No capias
ad satisfaciendum in the form appropriate to civil cases, where
the exigency of the writ is to take the body of the party and
him safely keep, so that the sheriff have his body before the
court -t the return day of the process with the writ, is ever
issued or issuable. If, therefore, the present case were to be
tried by the common law, the process of capias ad satisfaciendum, under which the prisoner is detained,. would be wholly
insufficient to justify his detention.
Let us see, then, how the case stands upon the laws of
Maryland, by which, indeed, it is to be governed. The act of
Maryland of the 20th of April 1777, ch. 6, which seems specially applicable to the recovery of pecuniary fines and forfeiiures fixed by statute, declares, that if such fines and forfeitures
shall be recovered by indictment, the court may either commit
the offender to the public jail till payment to the sheriff: or
(a) See 1 Chitty's Crnm. Law, ch. 16, p. 721; Dalton's Shenfi; .ch. 33, p.
159; 4 Chitty's Cnm. Law, ch. 16, p. 373.

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Ex parte Watkins.]

order execution to levy the same on the offender's lands, goods
or chattels. This act is not supposed to have any application
to the present case.. The act of 20th of April 1777, ch. 13,
for-the more speedy and effectual recovery of common law fines
and forfeited recognizances, provides, fhat where any fine shall
be enforced by any court of record for any common law offence
on any person, it shall be lawful for the attorney-general or
either of his deputies to order a writ of capias ad satisfaciendum,
or a writ of fien facias, to be issued for the recovery of the sum
due thereon, on which writs such proceedings shall and may
be had, as in cases where similar writs are issued on judgments obtained in personal suits. It may be here.stated, that
writs of capias ad satisfaciendum in Maryland are the same.m
substance in their exigency as those prescribed in the common
law In another section of the act (sect. 4), there is a proviso
that nothing therein contained shall be construed to extend
to prevent the several courts, as they mzght heretofore lawfully do,
from comnfitting any person from the non-paymeni of any fine,
if they shall deem it expetient so to do. This proviso completely establishes the antecedent practice m Marylaftd to have
been like that at the common law, to commit the offender for
payment of the fine, and leaves it at the discretion of the
court to order it in any future case. By necessary implication
it affirms, that without such order the offender is not detainable in jail-for the fine.
Then came the act of 24th of December 1795, oh. 74, which,
after reciting that doubts had arisen as to the issuing of a capias
ad satisfaciendum for the recovery of fines and forfeitures, provides, that it shall be lawful for the attorney-general and his
deputies ex -officio, and they are hereby directed and reqgiredon
applicationof the sheriff of the county, to orderwrits pf capias ad
satisfcienduha to be issued for the recovery of all fines and
forfeitures. Another section of the act. declares it to be the
duty of the sheriffs to return the writ of capias ad satisfaciendum to the courts, to which they are returnable at the term
succeeding.the issuing of the same, and wherever the sheriff
shall make return, that he has taken the body of the party,
he shall be obliged either to acknowledge in open court the
receipt of the amount of the fine -or forfeiture, or to produce

SUPREME COURT.
[Ex parte Watlkns.]

the body of the party to the. court, to which the said writ shall
be returned, and in default thereof, the court, upon motion
of the attorney-general or his deputy, shall order judgment
against tie sheriff for the amount of costs.
There is a prior act of the 25th of December 1789, ch. 42,
which after reciting that plaintiffs are often willing to grant
indulgence to defendants arrested on writs of capias ad satisfaciendum, but doubts have arisen whether such indulgence
can be granted without depriving the plaintiffs of the benefits
of any further execution, provides that in case of an arrest of
the defendants on any capias ad satisfaciendum, if the plaintiffs with the consent of the defendants shall elect not to call the
execution during the term, at which it is returnable, the plaintiff may afterwards proceed against the defendant by a new
execution. This statute has reference to the practice then existing in Maryland, for the sheriff, upon the return day of the
capias ad satisfaciendum, to produce the body of the defendant,
if arrested, and for the plaintiff then to pray him to be committed. Although in its terms it applies to civil suits only, yet
from its recogniizing the course of practice in Maryland, it has
-a material bearing upon the present controversy, for the act
of 1777 expressly declares that on writs of capias ad satisfaciendum for fines, such proceedings shall be had as in cases
where sinilar suits of capias ad satisfaciendum are issued in
personal suits. And, certainly, it is in entire conformity with
the exigency of the writ of capias ad satisfaciendum, which
commands the sheriff at the return day to bring the party, if
arrested, into court. Whether the practice under the capias
ad satisfaciendum in England is different, so that the party
may be detained in jail by the sheriff after the return day
without producing his body in court, and a committitur thereon awarded by the court, it is not material to inquire, since if
there be any discrepancy, the Maryland practice must govern,
The cases of Christie v. Goldsborough, 1 Harr. and M'H.
543, and West v. Hyland, 3 Harr. and John. Rep. 200, go
strongly to affirm the practice and the latter certainly leads
to the conclusion, that if a party is arrested and brought into
court on the return day, and is not then prayed in commitment, he is no longer to be detained in custody at least that

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Ex parte Watkins.j

case decides that a new capias ad satisfaciendum may issue
against him, which presupposes, that he is not then deemed m
custody upon the old one(a).
But the terms of the act of 1795, ch. 74 (as has been already
seen), expressly require the writ of capias ad satisfaciendum
for a fine to be returned into-court on the return day, and the
fine either acknowledged to be paid, or the body 6f the party
produced, otherwise judgment may-be.entered up against the
sheriff for the amount. It is clearly then his duty to produce
the -body. It is the very exigency of the writ, and when
produced, the sheriff has performed the whole duty required
by the precept. If the attorney-general wishes mm to be
committed, he is entitled to pray a commitment to be made by
the court. If he does not pray it,. it is diffitult to perceive
upon what ground it can be maintained, that the party is any
longer to be detained in the custody of the sheriff. The latter
has no power to arrest.the party, or to detain him except according to the exigency of the writ, and he has discharged
himself of his whole duty, when he has produced the body
in court. His precept, in its terms, authorizes no detainer beyond the return day. Upon what ground, then, can the court
infer it I
If resort.be had to the practice, as certified to us by the clerks
of the Maryland courts, it is in perfect coincidence with the
natural construction of the terms of the act. They assert the
uniform practice upon writs of capias ad satisfaciendtun in
criminal cases to be, to bring the party into court, and then to
award a committitur. No instance is shown in which a party
has ever been held in custody after.the return term, upon such a
capias ad satisfaciendum, without a committitur. Such a urnform course of practice, is of itself very cogent evidence of the
law. The practice in this district is not shown to be different.
If it has not invariably conformed to that of Maryland, it seems
to have conformed to it in almost all cases. The only two
cases produced to the contrary, are where the return was
"cepi in jail;" and the circumstances of these particular cases
(a) See also Evans's Harris's Entr. vol. 2d, p. 313, No. 40; Y tlton v.
Wood, 3 Harr. and M'. Rep. 99 , Dyer v. Beatty, 3Harr:.and M'H. Rep.
219

VOL. VII-3 X

SUPREME COURT.
[Ex parte.Watkins.]

are unknown. The parties may have been already m jail on
execution, or under other sentences.
And independent of the plain import of the writ of capias
ad satisfaciendum, there may be sound reasons for requiring
the body to be produced in court., The capias ad satisfaciendum may have issued irregularly; the party may have paid the
fine, he.may have received a pardon subsequently to its award,
or he may have other matters to ,urge against a commitment.
The remark of the court in Turner v. Walker, 3 Gill. and
Johns. Rep. 377, 385, upon an analogous writ, is very applicable here. "It is proper and necessary," say the court, "to
the security of the defendant, that it should be returned in
term time, in order that he may have a day in court to protect
his rights." Indeed, as the statute and the precept of the process both require this course, it is incumbent upon those who
contend that it may -be dispensed with, or is unnecessary, to
show some ground of authority or principle upon vhich the
arg. aent can be maintained. We have not been able to find
any
It has been said, that where the party convicted is already
in custody when the sentence is passed, the party is to be
deemed in custody until the fine is paid, without any award of
a commitment in the sentence, or the issuing of any capias ad
satisfaciendum. We know of no authorityjustifymg this position, either at the common law or under the laws of Maryland.
On the contrary, the act of 'Maryland of 1777, ch. 13, plainly
allows a discretion in the court to commit or not to commit,
for the fine. The omission to award a commitment, as a part
of the sentence, is manifestly an exercise of such a discretion.
Unless a committitur be. awarded, which can only be when
the party is in court(a), there must, as has been seen, be a
capias pro fine by the common law, and by the laws of Maryland a capias ad satisfaciendum, to justify his arrest and detention.
The capias ad satisfaciendum then, in this case, was properly.awarded. It was a necessary process to recover the fine.
The difficulty is, that no return was ever made to the court at
the return day by the marshal, nor indeed until long after the
(a) See I Chitty's Ckiminal Law, 695, 696.

JANUARY TERM 1833.

579.

[Ex parte Watkins.]

marshal's office had expired. Watkins was -never brought
into court, nor committed by the order of the court. He is
now held in jail, and has, ever since the return term, been-held
in jail solely upon the capias ad satisfaciendum, which became
functus officio after the return day. He might. have been
arrested and detained'in jail, if he had not been previously in
custody, until the return day, but his detention afterwards,
was not, in our judgnment,-justified by the process. In every
view which we have been enabled to take of the case, we cannot find any principle or authority to justify his detention.
Doubtless the detention has been in entire good faith, under a
mistake of the law. But this cannot vary the results.
We are accordingly of opinion that the writ of habeas corpus
ought to issue, as prayed for.
Mr Justice JoHNsON dissenting.
This case presents two questions, one of jurisdiction, and the
other on the right to relief, if we assume jurisdiction.
My opinion on the first has been so strong in the negative,
that I have taken little pains to investigate the second, but I
will give a brief exposition of myviews oil both.
On the first I have thought that it need but be'stated to be
decided.
The prisoner is in custody of a capias ad satisfaciendum issuing out of the circuit court of this district. He has been convicted of a crime, a fine has been inflicted, and tlus wilt has
been issued to recover it, as he was not required by the sentence to remain in custody until the fine was paid. It is not
questioned that the process was legally issued conformably to
the laws of Maryland, or contended that any ground whatever
exists for discharging the prisoner, except first, the excessive
character br the'fu e, which rround tis court has now decided
against, and secondly, that upon whxwI he is upw to be discharged, to wit, that he was not on the retuni day of the wfit
-brought into court, and there formally recommitted to themarshal, to be detained- until the fine was paid.
Now it does appear to me that it is impossible to avoid being
trussed on one horn or the other of the dilemma, with which the
case was met by the attorney-general. Is this court called upon
to relieve the prisoner against an act of the court, or an act of

SUPREME COURT
[Ex parte Vatkins.]
1

If of the court, then what act has the
the officers of the court
court done, or omitted to do, to the prejudice of the defendant!
The cause of complaint is, that it has not committed him to
the custody of the marshal, but the custody of -the marshal is
the very-injury that we are now called upon to redress. Is the
omission to (io that which, by the terms of this application it is
acknowledged, would have legally and effectually deprived him
of his liberty, a matter for him to complain of I or for us to relieve him from? But suppose it is a cause of complaint that
the court has erred in not doing an act which it was never
called upon to do, then have they not erred in a criminal
cause QAnd is it not therefore acknowledged to be beyond the
limits of our appellate jurisdiction'
But the truth is, and it is impossible to controvert it, that
the complaint is, and the relief sought is, against the marshal
for a detention without authority. The.court committed no error in issuing the process, under which the arrest was made,
and if, as is now established, the process has lost its efficiency,
.and is no I roger a justification for detaining the prisoner, it is
not under the process of the court that he is detained, but Without it, .and therefore false imprisonment in the officer. Why
did not the prisoner present this motion to the court that issued
the process I to the court whose officer the marshal is, quoad
hoc'z The reason is obvious, had the court refused to discharge him, and this application then been made here, the appeal would have been too palpably an a case of criminal jurisdiction. And yet, in that event only, would he have found a
pretext for claiming of this court redress against an act of that
court. At present there is no act of that court for this-court to
revise; for if not giving the order for commitment could be
tortured into such an act, then the answer is, there never was
a motion made to grant such an order" "and if holding hum in
custody under process, or pretext of process, issuing out of that
cour4 can be considered as a subject of revision here, then is
the court -unaffected by the error, since, an terms, the motion
here admits their process to have long since expired in the
marshal's hands and surely the court is not responsible for any
thing done under colour of its process, but for which the process gives no authority.
The truth is, that this is a direct interference by means of

JANUARY TERM 1833.
(Ex parte Watkins.]

the writ now moved for, between a court of the United States,
and the executive officer of that court - and upon the principles
of this decision, I see no reason why we may not next be called
upon to issue the same writ to our Ultima Thule,.the mouth of
the Oregon, to bring up a prisoner under a capias ad satisfaciendum, in order to examine whether he.has paid the debt or
not. Is tins appellate jurisdiction, or is it the proper employment of this tribunal!
This all grows out of the case of Hamilton, a case on which
the question was not decided, and a case -which, if any one will
examine the report of it, he will pronounce of very little authority. Then followed the case of Bollman v. Swartwout, professing obedience to that of Hamilton, but a case which occurred
in the midst of great public excitement. Next came those of
Burford and Kearney, et similes multi, and finally this, which
is a distinct augury in my humble opinion of the conclusions to
which we are finally to be led by precedent. I have always
opposed the progress of this exercise of jursdiction, and will
oppose it as long as a hope remains to arrest it.
On the second point, I will make but a few remarks.
I have never doubted that under the writ of capias-ad satisfaciendum, by -the common law, the sheriff may not only take;
but detain the defendant until he was legally discharged, or
that for the purpose of authorizing a detention in his own custody, a commitment to the sheriff was unheard of. On the
page of the book quoted by defendant's counsel to maintain
the contrary doctrine, which precedes the page quoted, will be
found, an entry, that explains in what cases the committitur is resorted to in England. It is true that this writ has its
return day; and that it, in terms, requires the production of the
defendant's body on that day* but practically, this exigency of
the writ has received this construction, "that he have him
ready to pr.oduce on that day, if so required by the plaintiff.."
Blackstone says, vol. 3, p. 415, "if he does not on that day
make satisfaction, hemust remain in custody until he does."
And in the case of Hopkins v. Plomer, 2 Black. 1048, the
court gives in express terms, that version to the writ. "It is
the. sheriff's duty, say the court, to obey the writ, and the writ
commands him to take the defendant, and him safely keep, so
that he may have him ready to satisfy the planit.ff What figure

SUPREME COURT
[Ex parte Watkins.]

would a sheriff make in England, if to an action for escape, lie
were to plead that he took the defendant and brought hun into
court on the day, &c., in the literal language of the exigency
of the writ. No one would dream of justifying his not detaining the prisoner, for want of a committitur. But it is insisted
that the common law has undergone a change under the laws
and practice of Maryland.
I have seen no statute of Maryland which, either in terms
or by inference, mdkes a committitur to himself necessary to
justify a sheriff in detaining his prisoner under a capias ad satisfaciendum. It is true that, by a very humane and judicious
provision, the laws of Maryland have permitted the plaintiff to
indulge the defendant in execution without losing his debt,
and'from this the practice might naturally grow up to bring
the defendant into court to await the will of the plaintiff and
the court have very properly decided, omitting the motion to
remand him, did not deprive the plaintiff of his second execution but I look in vain for any decision going to establish that
the sheriff would have been liable for false imprisonment, had
he taken the prisoner back to jail without a commitment.
This has been sought to be supplied- by a reference to the
clerks of the Maryland courts to establish a practice to that
effect; but I protest against such means of getting at the law
of a case, especially as to a practice of which those clerks are
called to testify subsequent in date to the separation from
Maryland. But I have looked into the evidence thus procured,
and, even if legal, I look in vain for any evidence to support
the doctrine, most of them speak doubtingly, or decline speaking at all, and the sum and substance of the certificates of the
whole amount to no more than this, that if the sheriff brings
the body into court, the court will, on motion, order a commitment. But this is not the point we are, called upon to
decide we are called upon to decide that, without such commitment, it would be false imprisonment in the sheriff to resume the custody of the defendant. In this district, I think
there has been positive evidence furnished by the defendant
himself of the exercise of a discretion in the marshal, whether
to bring the person of the prisoner into court or not, and therein perhaps to consult the feelings of ihe individual. I allude to
those two mtances in which the return was "cepi and defend-

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Ex parte Watkins.]

ant in jail." We may imagine some possible ground for lessening the pressure of these two instances, but certainly the
case, as exhibited to us, furnishes no such ground.
I am opposed to the order now made.
Mr Justice M'LAN dissented, on the ground that where a
defendant had been committed by the marshal on a caplas. ad
satisfaciendum, before the return day of the writ, it is not the
practice either m this district or in the state of Maryland, as he
understood it, to bring up the defendant, that he may be
prayed m commitment but that it is the practice, under the
construction of the Maryland law, where a defendant has been
arrested on a capias ad satisfaciendum, and permitted to go at
large until the return day of the writ, to bring his body into
court on such day, that it may be prayed in commitment.
On consideration of the petition filed in this case in behalf
of the petitioner, and of the arguments of counsel as well for
the United States as for the petitioner thereupon had, it is the
opinion of this court that the writ of habeas corpus ought to
issue as prayed for. Whereupon, it is considered, ordered and
adjudged by this court, that a writ of habeas corpus be forthwith issued, directed to the marshal of the United States for
the district of Columbia, commanding him to have the body of
the said Tobias, with the day and cause of his caption and detention, immediately after the receipt of the writ, to do, receive
and submit to all and singular those thmgs which the court
shall consider concermng him in this behalf, and to have then
and there the said writ with his doings thereon.
To the writ of habeAs corpus the marshal of the district of
Columbia made the following return
Henry Ashton, Esq. marshal of the United States for the
district of Columbia, having read in open court and filed the
following writ, together with his return thereon, viz. "United
States of America, ss. The-president of the United States, to
the marshal of the United States for the district of Columbia,
greeting You are hereby commanded that you have the
body or Tobias Watkins, detained under your custody, as it is

SUPREME COURT.
[Ek parte Watkms.]

said, under a safe and secure conduct, together with the day
and cause of his caption and detention, by-whatsoever name
he shall be called in the same, before the supreme court of the
United States, now sitting in the capitol of the United. States
in the city of Washington, being the present seat of the national government, immediately after the receipt of this writ,
to do, receive and submit to all and singular those things which
the said supreme court shall then and there consider concerning him in this, behalf; and have then and there this writ with
your doings thereon. Witness, &c.
Return of the marshal. "To the honourable the judges of
the supreme court of the United States. The marshal of the district of Columbia, in obedience to the writof habeas corpus issued
by the authority of your honours, now produces into your honourable court the body of Tobias Watkins, who has been in his
custody ever since he came into office, delivered over to hnn by
his predecessor, Tench Ringgoldl, in jail, he stating that he had
been held in his custody by virtue of three writs of capias ad
satisfaciendum at the suit of the United States, and by virtue
of.a writ of capias ad respondendum, at the suit of one William
Cox, upon which said last mentioned writ he the said Watkins
had been prayed into commitment by the said Cox, and had
been ordered into commitment by the honourable judges of the
circuit court of the United-States for the district of Columbia,
sitting for Washington county, by whose authority all the said
writs had been issued. That being satisfied of the correctness
of the -representations of his said predecessor, he continued to
detain the said Watkins in custody without any complaint or
allegation of any illegality or wrong in the said confinement
until the rule was moved for in your honourable court, at its
present term, at the instance of said Watkins, for cause to be
shown by the attorney-general of the United States why a writ
of habeas corpus should not be granted to bring the said Watkins before .your honours, together with the cause of his detention. He further shows .ta your honours, that since the said
rule was moved for, the writ of Cox, as aforesaid, has been
dismissed, and fiom that tune to the time of his receiving the
said writ of habeas corpus, he held hum in custody by virtue
only of the three,writs of capias ad salisfaiendui at the suit.
of^ the Uuited States. considering it improper to discharge him

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Ex parte Watkins.]

pending, the deliberations of your honours upon the legality or
illegality of his detention under and by virtue of those writs
last mentioned."
On consideration whereof; and after due deliberation thereupon had, it is now here considered, ordered and adjudged by
this court, in this behalf, that the said prisoner, Tobias Vatkins, be, and lie is hereby discharged from confinement uncier
the said several three writs of capias ad satisfaciendum at the
suit of the United States. in. the said return of the marshal
mentioned.
After the discharge of Mr Watkins, by this order of the court,
on the 19th day of February 1833, he was, on the- same day,
arrested and confined by the marshal of the district of Columbia, under three several writs of capias ad satisfaciendum issued.
on the same judgments, under which he had been previously
detained in prison. These writs were dated on the 19th of
February 1833, and were issued by order of the district attorney of the United States for the district of Columbia, and were
returnable at the next tern of the circuit court of the district.
A petition for a writ of habeas corpus, setting forth this
airest and his imprisonment under it, was presented hy Mr
Watkins; and a rule on the attorney-general was, on motion,
granted, .to show cause why the same should not issue.
After argument of this rule, by Mr Coxe and Mr Brent, for.
the relator; and by Mr Tanqy, the attorney-general of the
United States, and Mr Key, the attorney of the Uited States
for the district of_ Colmnbia, the rile was discharged. "the
court being equally divided in opinion as to the question
whether this court ought to award a writ of iabeaIs corpus, as
prayed ii the case by the penItioner"(a).
(a) At the. NIfrch term 1833 of the circut. Court of the Unitcd States for
the county ofVWashington in the district of CoLLinbi:a. Mr Watkins vab
brought up on a writ of habeas coIpus Mwarded by that court, and was discharged. The.very learned opinon of the court, delis-ered by the chief
justice of the circuit court, will be found in the appendix to ihis volmte.

Vol

VIL-3 V

