SUPREME COURT

RICHARD M. SCOTT, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR V. EZRA LUNT'S
ADMINISTRATOR.
Action of covenant brought by the plantiff in error to recover the amount
of certain rents alleged to have been due and in arrear from the defendant since the death of his intestate under an indenture, by which a certain
annual rent was reserved out of the property conveyed by the indenture,
and which the grantee covenanted to pay; a clause of re-entry for nonpayment of the rent being contained in the deed. By the court:. it is
firmly established, that on a covenant to pay rent, reserved by the deed
granting real estate subject to the rent, the personal representatives of
the covenantor are liable for the non-payment of the rent, after an. assignment, although there may also be agood remedy against the assignee.
The laws of Viignirv. have not, in this respect, narroweddown the responsibility existing by the common law in England.
The assignee of a fee farm rent, being an estate ofinheritance, is, upon the
principles of the common law, entitled to sue therefor in hs own name.
it iii an exception from the general rule, that choses in action cannot be
transferre,., and stands upon the ground of being, not a mere personal
debt, but a perdurable inheritance.
The common law of England, -and all the statutes ofparliament made in aid
of the common law, prior to the fourth year of the reign of king James
the first, which are of a general nature, and'not local to the kingdom,
were expressly adopted by the Virgima statute of 1776; and the subsequent revisions of its code have confirmed the general doctrine on this
particular subject.
The instructions given to the jury, not conforming to the issue made up by
the pleadings, a vemre de novo was awarded.

IN error to the circuit court of the United States for the county
of Alexandria in 1he district of Columbia.
This was an action of covenant instituted in the circuit
court for the county of Alexandria, by the plaintiff against the
defendant, to recover- sundry annual rents alleged to be due
from the defendant's testator to the plaintiff,. under a deed executed by General George Washington and wife of the one part,
and the defendant's intestate on the other part, by which a lot
of ground in the city of Alexandria was conveyed to .Ezra
Lunt, his heirs and assigns, subject to the payment of an
annual rent of seventy-three dollars, payable to General George
Washington, his heirs, executors and assigns, on the 8th day

JANUARY TERM 1833
[Scott v. Lunts Adamstrator.]

of August in each year. The deed was made u ion the 8th
day of August 1799, and contained the following covenants:
"And the said Ezra Lunt, his heirs and assigns, does hereby
grant unto General George Washington, his heirs and assigns,
the said annual rent of seventy-three dollars, issuing out of the
said hereby demised premises; and the said Ezra Lu it, his
heirs and assigns, 4to hereby covenant, promise and grant, to
and with the said General George Washington, his heirs and
assigns, that he, the said Ezra Lunt, his heirs and assigns, will
yearly, and every year for ever, well and truly pEty the aforesaid sum of seventy:three dollars, unto the said General George
Washington, his heis and assigns, on the day and at the time
appointed for payment, as aforesaid, -and also, that it shall and
may be lawful for the sid General George Washington, his
heirs and assigns, at any and at all times after the said rent
shall become due (if the same be not paid when demanded),
to enter upon the said hereby granted piece of land, and distress and sale make of the goods and chattels which may be
thereupon found, to pay and satisfy such rent or rents, or part
of a rent, as may remain due and in arrear. And it is further
agreed, covenanted, conditioned and provided, by the said Ezra
Lunt, his heirs and assigns, to and with the said General
George Washington, his heirs and assigns, that if the said
yearly rent of seventy-three dollars, or any part thereof, be behind or unpaid for -the space of thirty days next after the same
became due aid payable, and sufficient goods and chattels of
the said Ezra Lunt, his heirs and assigns, shall not be found
upon the said hereby granted premises to pay and satisfy the
same, that then it shall and may be lawful for the said General
George Washington, his heirs and assigns, in and upon the
said hereby granted piece of laud and premises to re-enter, and
the same to hold again, repossess and enjoy, as if this present
indenture had never been made, any thing herein contained tothe contrary thereof in anywise notwithstanding."
The deed also contamns a covenant of general warranty.
On the 28th of August 1804, the executors of General
Washington, by a deed of indenture executed on that day, sold
and conveyed to Henry Smith Turner, his executors, administrators and assigns, the annual -rent of seventy-three dollars,
issuing out of, and charged upon the piece of ground conveyed

SUPREME COURT.
[Scott v. Lunt's Administrator.]

to Ezra Lunt, "to have and to hold the said annual rent of
seventy-three dollars, unto the said Henry Smith Turner, his

heirs and assigns," &c. This deed recited the conveyance to
Ezra Lunt at large.
On the 25th day of February 1808, Henry Smith Turner
sold and conveyed the said ground rent of seventy-three dollars, to the plaintiff in error. The conveyance, after reciting
the deed from General Washington to Ezra Lunt, and that the
said rent and the powers of distress and re-entry contained in
the same, were, by the executors of General Washington,
transferred to hum, the said Henry Smith Turner, his heirs and
assigns, by the deed of August 5th, 1804, proceeds as follows:
"Now this indenture witnesseth, that the said Henry Smith
Turner, and Cathanne his wife, for and in consideration of six
hundred dollars, to him, the said Henry S. Turner, in hand
paid by the said Richard Marshall Scott, at or before the sealing and delivery of these presents, the receipt whereof he, the
-said Henry Smith Turner, doth hereby acknowledge, and
thereof and of every part and parcel thereof doth acquit, release, and discharge him, the said Richard Marshall Scott, his
heirs, executors and administrators, by these presents, have
given, granted, bargained, sold, aliened, assigned, transferred,
set over, and confirmed, and by these-presents do give, grant,
bargain, sell, alien, assign, transfer, set over, and confirm unto
him, the said Richard Marshall Scott, ns heirs and assigns
for ever, that rent of seventy-three dollars, issuing out of that
piece of ground lying upon the north side of Prince street,
and to the westward of Pitt street, in the town of Alexandria,
granted by the said George Washington to the said Ezra Lunt,
and by his executors conveyed and' transferred unto him, the
said Henry Smith Turner, and the powers of distress and reentry, and all deeds and instruments of writing which relate
to the reservation and transfer of the said rent, and every covenant, clause, and stipulation, contained in them or any of
them. To have, and to hold all and singular the said preniises, with their appurtenances, unto him, the said Richard
Marshall Scottu,. his heirs and assigns, to the-only proper use
and behoof of him, the said Richard Marshall Scott, his heirs
.and assigns for ever:"

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Scott v. Lunt's Admintrator.]

To the declaration filed upon the covenant contained in the
lease for the payment of these rents, the defendant pleaded
1st, That he had not broken the covenants in the declaration mentioned, and put himself on the country and the said
plaintiff likewise. The defendant afterwards filed a general
demurrer to the declaration, which was overruled by the court.
and the defendant then filed two additional pleas, viz
2d, That he had fully administered, &c.
3d, That before the days m the declaration mentioned
day
for the payment of said rent, that is to say, on the the said plaintiff, under and by virtue
of--,
in the yearof the said condition of re-entry in the said deed contained, did
enter on the said premises, thereby demised, for non-payment
of certain rent then in arrear and unpaid, and held and occupied the same as vested in him by the said entry as his absolute
estate, &c.
To these pleas there was a general replication and issues.
After these issues were joined, the plea fully administered
was withdrawn, and the cause went before the jury upon the
first and second pleas above stated.
The plaintiff gave in evidence the deed or lease from General Washington and Martha his wife, to Ezra Lunt, and the
conveyances of the executors of General Washington, and
Henry Smith Turner.
The defendant then gave evidence to prove that, upon the
settlement of the admimstration account by the defendant upon
the estate of his testator, there was a balance in the hands of
the administrator of one hundred and forty-nine dollars, which
he, the defendant, under the order of the orphans' court., distributed among the next of kin of the deceased, in the year
1812, no demand having been made upon him .as administrator for said -ent previously to this suit.
The defendant then gave, in evidence to the jury, a deed
from the original lessee, Ezra Lunt and his wife, to James
Boyd, and a deed from .lames Boyd to Jonathan Schofield,
by which deeds It was admitted, that the premises upon
which the said rent was ohaiued had been duly conveyed to
him, Jonathan Schofield.
The defendant" then othred Jonathan Schotield as a wit-

SUPREME COURT
LScott v. Lunt's Admnmstrator.]

ness in the said cause to prove that the said plaintiff had made
a re-entry upon the premises in question.
The said Schofield proved, that he had held the premises
in question, from the time he obtained a deed for them, that is
to say, from the 4th of November 1817, to the latter end of the
year 1820, that towards the close of 1820, the plaintiff pressed
him for the rents then due upon the premises, and threatened
to re-enter upon them, if the rent was not paid, that, in the
year 119, the said plaintiff and himself had a conversation in
relation to the said rent, in which the plaintiff threatened to
re-enter upon the premises for the non-payment, and, that the
said Schofield had, on his part, in. the said conversation, declared his total inability to make payment, and that, at the
plaintiff's request, he agreed that the plaintiff should take possession of the premises and do what he pleased in consequence
of .the non-payment of the said rent, that, in the end of the
year 1820, he received a letter from the plaintiff on the same
subject, and that the letter now produced by the latter, was
written by him in answer thereto, that after this he understood
that the said plaintiff had re-entered on, and taken upon himself the management of the said premises, and he supposed
that he meant no longer to look to him for the rents, and, m
fact, that he had re-entered upon the premises, that, from the
year 1819, to the present tifne, he has had nothing to do with
the premises, nor has any claim been made against him for the
rent. It is admitted that, during all this time, that is to say,
from January 1821 to the present time, the said Jonathan
Schofield is wholly insolvent.
The defendant then examined a witness, one Barton Lynch,
who gave evidence to prove, that about the beginning of the
year 1821,. the plaintiff engaged him to labour for him at seventy-three dollars a year, and the plaintiff informed him that
he was entitled to a ground rent upon the premises in question
of seventy-three dollars, that if he would collect this rent, he
might do so and apply it to his (the plaintiff's) credit on account of his labour, and that lie might, so far as the plaintiff
had auv concern in the premises, do whatever he pleased towards renting and making the most of tie property, that he
did not mean to re-enter upon the property; that he immedi.
ately turned his atention and found two families li.-ing upon

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Scott v. Lunt's Administrator.]

it, that, under an authority from the plaintiff, lie entered on
and repaired the premises to a pretty considerable extent, and
rented the property out, from time to tine, for nearly three
years, and received for the rents about one hundred and forty
dollars, which was paid over to the plaintiff, or rather accounted for by him to the plaintiff, in the settlement of his account
for his labour-done for the plaintiff.
This evidence being given to the jury, with a view of showing that a re-entlry had been made by the plaintiff upon the
premises in question, the counsel for the plaintiff prayed the
court to instruct the jury, that the said evidence was not coinpetent to piove that the said plaintiff had re-entered upon the
said premises, so as to vest in, him a title to the said premises,
and to bar hun from the claim which he has here.made,, and
that it was not even competent for the jury to iifer from the
said evidence, that such re-entry had been made. wich instruction the court refused to give, being of opinion that the
said evidence was competent to be left to the jury for their
consideration, upon the -question whether a re-entry had been
made by the plaintiff according to the terms of the clause in
the aforesaid original deed, from Gdneral Washington's executors to the said Ezra Lunt.
The court having refused to instruct the jury as aforesaid,
the counsel for the plaintiff prayed the court tb instruct the
jury, that the time at which the re-entry ought to be made,
depended upon the lease given in evidence by the plaintiff as
aforesaid, and could not be varied by the evidence given, as
aforesaid, by the defendant, and that if they found that a reentry had been made, that it ought to be such as would conform to the deed, and that a niere occupation of the premises,
by a landlord or his agent, or the receipt of rents of the piemises
did not, in themselves, amount to a re-entry; whichinstruction
the court refused to give, being of opinion that it was for the
said Schofield to waive any of the formalities required by law
for his benefit.
The defendant then prayed the court to instruct the niry
that if the jmry should be satisfied by the said evidence, twat
the said Richard M. Scott did enter and 'take possession of he
premises, under and by virtue of the clause of re-entry in the
deed from General Washington's executors to the testator of
VOL. VII.-4 A

SUPREME COURT.
[Scott v. Lunt's Administrator.]
the defendant, it is competent for the jury to infer from the
evidence aforesaid, that the said Jonathan Schofield assented
to-the said re-entry, and that if they believe that he did so
assent, and he yet continues to assent to the said re-entry, and
that the plaintiff has never since offered to reinstate the said
Schofield in the possession of the said premises, that the said
plaintiff is bound by the said entry, and cannot recover against
the same, 'the rent which became due subsequently thereto,
which instruction the court gave as prayed.
The counsel for the plaintiff excepted to the refusal of the
court to give the instruction prayed by the plaintiff, and to the
instruction given by the court on the prayer of the defendant.
Judgment having been rendered by the court, in favour of the
defendant, this writ of error was prosecuted.
The case was argued by Mr Swan, for the plaintiff in error, and by Mr Jones, for the defendant.
Mr Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This cause comes before us upon a writ of error to the circuit court for the district of Columbia, sitting in Alexandria.
The original suit is an action of covenant brought by Scott,
as assignee, to xecover the amount of certain rents alleged to be
.due and in arrear from the defendant, since the death of his
intestate, under ap indenture stated m the pleadings. The
defendant pleaded in- the first place, that he had not broken
the covenants in the deed, after which plea, issue was joined.
Afterwards, a general demurrer was put in to the declaration,
which being joined by the plaintiff, was, upon the hearing,
overruled by the court. Afterwards the plea of plene adimstravit was put in, which was withdrawn, and the-cause was
finally tried upon another plea, which, after oyer of the mdenture, stated, that "before the days in the declaration specified for
the payment of the rent to the plaintiff under the said deed,
that is to say, oni. &c. the plaintiff, under and by virtue of the
condition of rn-en try in. the deed contained, did enter into the
premises thereby demised, for non payment of certain rent then
in arrear aid unpaid, and held and occupied the same as vested zn
n it by the said e.try 4s- his absolute estate;" upon which plea
issue being joined, the jury found a verdict for the defendant.

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Scott v. Lunt's Admirnstrator.)

A bill of exceptions was taken at the trial, which will presently
come under consideration, as matter assigned for error.
The indenture referred to was made on the 8th of August
1799, between General George Washington and Martha his
wife, of the one part, and Ezra Lunt, the defendant's intestate, of
the other part. It purports, on the part of General Washington,
to grant to Lunt, his heirs and assigns for ever, a parcel of
land in Alexandria, he, Lunt, his heirs and assigns yielding
and paying for the same, on the 8th day of August yearly,
unto General Washington, Is heirs and assigns, the sum of
seventy-three dollars. And Lunt, and his heirs and assigns,
covenant with General Washington, his heirs and assigns, that
he, his heirs and assigns will yearly and every year for ever,
well and truly pay the aforesaid sum of seventy-three dollars to
General Washington, his heirs and assigns on the day, and at
the time appointed for payment, and that it shall be lawful
for General Washington, his heirs and assigns, at all times
after the rent shall become due, to enter upon the premises,
and distress and sale make of the goods and chattels found
thereon, to satisfy the rent in arrear. And Lunt, his heirs and
assigns, further covenant with General Washington, his heirs
and assigns, that if the yearly rent or any part thereof, be behind or unpaid for the space of thirty days after the same be-.
comes due and payable, and sufficient goods and chattels of
Lunt, his heirs and assigns, shall not be found upon the premises to pay and satisfy the same, it shall be lawful for General Washington, his heirs and assigns, to re-enter and hold the
same again, as if the .indenture had never been made. And
then follows a covenant of general warranty on the part of
General Washington, his heirs and assigns.
The executors of General Washington, by virtue of powers
given oy his will, on the 25th day of August 1804, by indenture, after reciting the substance of the indenture, assigned
and granted unto Henry S. Turner, his heirs and assigps, the
said rent by the following descriptive terms "the aforesaid
annual rent of seventy-three dollars issuing out of and charged
on the aforesaid piece or parcel of ground, herein before described"
There are no words in this'indenture assigning over
the rights, powers, and remedies, given by the former indenture,
.by distress and re-entry,, or the residuary interest in the pre.

SUPREME COURT
[Scott v. Lunt's Admmnistrator.]

mises resulting from such re-entry Turner, by another indenture on the 25th of February 1808, assigned and granted
the same rent unto the plaintiff (Scott), his heirs and assigns,
with the powers of distress and re-entry, and all the covenants
and stipulations in the original indenture. But it is manifest,
that he could not convey them, unless he had already taken
them under the assignment made to him by the executors.
Ther declaration too is founded solely upon the assignment and
transfer of the rent, and contains no allegation of any assignment of the collateral rights and remedies and interests in the
estate.
Under these circumstances, it is contended, that whatever
might be the fate of the bill of exceptions, if the action were
otherwise unobjectionable, the plaintiff, upon his own showing,
has no title to recover first, because the rent is a mere chose
in action, which.cannot be transferred by itself to the assignee,
so as to entitle him to sue therefor in his own name and secondly, because no suit is maintainable against the defendant
as administrator, for the rent in arrear, since Lunt's decease,
as there is neither privity of estate, nor of contract, between
him and the plaintiff. It is added, that Lunt, in fact, in his
life-time, assigned over his estate in the premises, and that his
administrator is not responsible for any rent subsequently accruing and in arrear. But this fact no where appears upon
the pleadings, and if it did, it would not help the defendant
for it is firmly established, that upon a covenant of this sort,
the personal representatives of the covenantor are liable for the
non-payment of the rent after assignment, although there may
also be a good remedy against the assignee(a). The laws of
Virginia have not, in this respect, narrowed down the responsibility existing by the common law in England, at the enugration of our ancestors.
Whether the plaintiff as assignee of the rent, not being assignee also of the estate, in the premises, or of the right of
re-entry, can maintain the present suit, is quite a different question. If he had been the assignee of the estate, or of the right
(a) See Comyn's Dig. Covenant, C. 1.
4. Bairnard v. Godscall, Cro. Jac. 309.
Rep. 642.

Bacon, Abridg. Covenant, E. 1,
Orgill v. Kenshead, 4 Taunt.

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Scott v. Lunt's Administrator.]

of re-entry, as well as of the rent, he would clearly be entitled
to maintain it, for the laws of Virginia are in this respect coextensive with those of England. The common law of England, and all the statutes of parliament made in aid of the
common law prior to the fourth year of the reign of king
James the first, which are of a general nature, and not local
to the kingdom, were expressly adopted by the Virginia statute
of 1776(a); and the subsequent revisions of its code have confirmed the general doctrine on this particular subject. The
very point was decided in Havergill v. Hare, Cro. Jac. 510.
There A. being seised of an estate in fee, by indenture granted
to B. his heirs and assigns, a fee farm rent.with a clause of
distress, and covenanted to levy a fine to uses, for securing
the payment of the rent, so that, if the rent should be in
arrear, B. his heirs and assigns might enter into the land, and
enjoy the rents thereof, until the rent in arrear should be paid
to them, and B. assigned, by a bargain and sale to C. the rent,
"with. all the penalties, forfeitures, profits and advantages,
comprized m the indenture." The fine was levied, the rent
was in arrear, and C. entered, and brought ejectone firme,
and a special verdict having been found, stating the above facts,
one question was, whether this contingent and future use to
arise upon non-payment of the rent, was transferable over to
C., by the bargain and sale. It was strongly urged by the defendant's counsel, that it is a matter in pnvity and possibility
only, which is not transferable before it falls in esse. But all
the justices resolved, that it being a matter of inheritance, and
being for the security for the payment of the rent, and waiting upon the rents, might well be transferred with the rent,
and by the grant of the rent, the penalty and advantage well
passed. But if it had been a mere possibility, not coupled with
any other estate, then it had not passed. This case is full to
the purpose that such a right of secuiity is capable of being
transferred, with the rent, by apt words, and even so transferred, gives the assignee a legal title both to the rent and the
attendant remedies. It leaves, however, the point untouched,
whether the mere transfer of the rent, without any transfer of
the right of entry (as in the present case), would give the as(a) See 1 Virginma Revised Code, ch. 38, p. 135, edition of 1819.

SUPREME COURT.
[Scott v. Lunt's Adminstrator.]
signee a right to maintain an action for the rent, seeing it is
not knit by any priority of right or estate to the premises. Upon
full consideration, however, we are of opimon that the assignee
of a fee farm rent, being an estate of inheritance, is upon the
principles of the common law entitled to sue therefor in his
own name. It is an exception from the general rule, that
choses in action cannot be transferred, and stands upon the
ground of being, not a mere personal debt, but a perdurable
inheritance. Thus, if an annuity is granted to one in fee,
although it be. a mere personal charge, yet a writ of annuity
lies therefor by the common law, not only in favour of the party and his heirs, but of their grantee. So the doctrine is expressly laid down by Lord Coke, Co. Litt. 144, b., and he is
fully borne out by authority(a) and in like manner for a rent
granted in fee and charged on land, a writ of annuity also lies
in favour of the assignee, at his election(b).
And since the statute of 32 Henry 8, ch. 34, covenants
of this sort running with the estate or inheritance, are transferable to the assignee with a full right to the benefit thereof.
So that there is no difficulty upon principles of the common
law, in giving effect to the present action. Whether the present plaintiff has any right to re-entry is a very different question, upon which in the present posture of this case it is unnecessary to give any opinion. It is clear, by the common law,
that a right of re-entry always supposes ap z;state in the party;
and cannot be reserved to a mere stranger. So the law was
laid down by the twelve judges, in Smith v. Packard, 3 Atk.
135, 140, and Lord Chief Justice Willis, on that occasion, in
delivering their opinion, said, "therefore
I have always
thought, that if an estate is granted to a man reserving rent,
and in default of payment a iight of entry was granted to a
stranger, it was void." What effect the statute of 32 Henry
8, ch. 34, or the provisions of the revised code of Virginia, may
have upon this point is a question not now before us.
We proceed, then, to the consideration of the bill of excep(a) See Co. Litt. 144, b., Hargrave's note, 1, Gerrardv. Boden, Het.
ley, 80 Mound's case, 7 Co. Rep. 28, b. 1 Thomas's Co.Litt. 448, note
F and 449, note (9), Bac. Abridg. Annuity, C., Com. Dig. Annuity, E.
(b) Co. Litt. 144, b.

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Scott v. Lunt's Admnistrator.]
tions. Two instructions were prayed by the plaintiff, and one
by the defendant. The latter was given by the court, and
with reference to the state of the pleadings, we see no objections thereto the difficulty is in the refusal of the second instruction prayed by the plaintiff. It is as follows.. "the plaintiff prayed the court to instruct the jury that the time at
which the re-entry ought to be made, depended upon the lease
given in evidence by the plaintiff as aforesaid, and could not
be vaned by the evidence given as aforesaid by the defendant,
and that if they found that a re-entry had been made, that it
ought to be such as would conform to the-deed, and that a
mere occupation of the premises by a landlord or his agent, or
the receipt of rents of the premises, did not of themselves
amount to a re-entry." The court refused'to give the instruction, being of opimon that it was competent for the said
Schofield, the actual tenant, to waive any of the formalities
required by law for his benefit.
Now however correct may be the opinion of the court of
this right of waiver upon general principles, still the question
is, whether with reference to the actual terms of the pleadings
and issue before the jury, the instruction prayed for was not
such as ought, upon principles of law, to have been given. It
is wholly immaterial, whether the pleadings might not have
been so framed upon the facts as to have presented a complete
defence to the action. The instruction prayed has reference
to the pleadings in the case. The averment there is, that the
plaintiff entered on the premises under and by virtue of the
condition of re-entry m the original deed, mentioned,. for nonpayment of the rent, and upon the issue joined, this was the
material inquiry. It is clear, that, upon such an issue, no entry
not conforming to that deed, and no evidence of an entry varying from it, would be admissible to support it. The sufficiency of the evidence before the jury to support the issue whs
properly left for their consideration. But the defendant had a
right to the instruction, that the proof must conform to the
allegations in the pleadings. For these -reasons we are of
opinion that the circuit court erred in.refusing -the above instruction ;and the judgment must on this account be reversed
and a venre facias de novo be awarded

