SUPREME COURT.

SYLVAN PEYROUX AND OTHERS, CLAIMANTS OF STEAMBOAT
PLANTER, APPELLANTS V. WILLIAM L. HOWARD AND FRANc.OIS VARION, LIBELLANTS.
A libel was filed in the district court of the United States for the eastern
district of Louisiana, against the steamboat Planter, by H. and V., citizens
of New Orleans, for the recovery of a sum of money alleged to be due
to them, as shipwrights, for work done and materials found in the repairs
of the Planter. The libel asserts that, by the admiralty law and the
laws of the state of Louisiana, they have a lien and privilege upon the
boat, her tackle, &c. for the payment of the sums due for the repairs and
?zkerals, and prays admiralty process against the boat, &c. The answer
of the owners of the Planter avers that they are citizens of Louisiana,
residing n New Orleans ,that the libellants are also citizens, and that
the court have no jurisdiction of the cause. Held, that thus was a case of
admiralty jurisdiction.
By the civil code of Louisiana, workmen employed in the construction or
repairs of ships or boats enjoy the privilege of a lien on such slps or
boats, without being bound to reduce their contracts to writing, whatever may be their amount, but this privilege ceases if they have allowed
the ship or boat to depart without exercising their rights. The state
law, therefore, gives a lien in this case.
In the case of the General Smith, 4 Wheat. 438, S C. 4 Peters's Condensed
Reports, it is decided that the jurisdiction of the admiralty in cases where
the repairs are upon a domestic vessel, depend upon the local law of the
state. Where the repairs have been made or necessaries furmished to a
foreign ship, or to a ship in the ports ofa state to which she does not belong, the general maritime law gives a lien on slups as security and the
party may maintain a suit in the admiralty to enforce his right. But, as
to repairs or necessaries in the port or state to which the ships belong,
the case is governed altogether by the local law of the state, as no lien
is implied unless it is recognized by that law. But if the local law gives
the lien, it may be enforced in the admiralty.
The services in this case were performed in the port of New Orleans, and
whether this was within the jurisdiction of the admiralty or no, depends
on the fact whether the tide in the Oississippi ebbs and flows as high up
the river as the port of New Orleans. The court considered themselves
authorized judicially to notice the situation of New Orlans, for the purpose of determining whether the tide ebbs and flows ashigh up the river
as that place; and being satisfied that although the current of the Mrssisippi at New Orleans may be so strong as not to be turned backwards
by the tide, .yet the effect of the tide upon the current is ap great as
occamons a regular rise and fall of the water; New Orleans may be pro-

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Peyroux-and others v. Howard and Varion.]
perly said to be within the ebb and flow of the tide, and the jurisdiction
of the admiralty prevails there.
In order to the decision whether the admiralty jurisdiction attaches to such
services as those performed by the libellants, the material consideration
is, whether the service was essentially a maritime service, and to be performed substantially on the Sea or tide water. It .)s no objection to the
jurisdiction of the admiralty in the case, that the steamboat Planter was
to be employed in navigating waters beyond the ebb and 4ow.of the tide.
In the case of the steamboat Je'fferson, itwas said by this couxt that tfiere
is no doubt the jurisdiction exists, although the commencement or termlnation of the voyage may happen to be at some place beyond the reach
of the tide.
Some of the older authorities seem to give countenance to the doctrine that
an express contract operates as a waiver of the lien. but it is settled at
the present day, that an express contract for a stipulated sum is not of
itself a waiver of a lien; but that, to produce t.hat effect, the contract
must contair some stipulations inconsistent with the continuance of such
lien, or from which a waiver may fairly be inferred.

APPEAL from the district court of the United States for the
eastern district of Louisiana.
In the district court a libel was filed on the 10th December
1830, by Howard and Vanon, shipwrights,. residing in New,
Orleans, against the steamboat Planter, claiming the sum of

two thousand one hundred and ninety-three dollars and thirtyfive cents, being the balance asserted to be due to them for the
*price of work, labour nihtenals furnished and repairs made on

the said boat, under contracts of 13th September and 19th

October 1830, and alleging that, by the admiralty law and
the law of the state of Louisiana, they had a lien on the said
boat for the payment of the same, and that she was about
leaving the port of New Orleans, and praying process, &c.
The account for the work materials, &c. was annexed to the
libel.

The owners of the steamboat Planter filed -a claun and plea
setting forth that they were all citizens of Louisiana, all resided in the city of New.Orleans, and that the libellants were
also citizens of that state; and that therefore the district court

of the United States had not jurisdiction of thetcase.
By a supplemental answer the respondents denied all the
facts set forth in the libel.

326

-SUPREME COURT.
[Peyroux and others v. Howard and Tahron.l

The plea to the jurisdiction of the court was overruled anad
dismissed, and the parties proceeded to take the testimony of
witnesses by depositions, which were filed as part or the proceedings in the case.
Bythe first contract, the shipwrights stipulated to do certain
specified work, and furnish certain materials, the same to be
approved by "1experts," for which .hey were to be paid the sum
of one thousand one hundred and fifty dollars.
By the contract of the 19th of October the Planter was to
be hauled on shore, and m consideration of four hundred and
,nty-five dollars, of which two hundred was to be paid m
cash, and two hundred and seventy-five in one monthi after the
boat should b:, launched and set afloat, certain other repairs
were to be done to her, and she should be d'livered and ready
to receive a cargo by the 20th of November, under a penalty
of twenty-five dollars per day for each day her delivery should
afterwards be retarded by-the shipwnghts.
The evidence in the case is fully stated in the opinion of the.
court.
The.district court made the following d6cree.
A"The libellants claim a balance due them of two thousand
one hundred and ninety-three dollars and thirty-five cents for
work and materials furnished in the repairs of the steamboat
Planter at the request of the claimants, and for which they
have a lien by the local law. The MIaamants, in their first
answer, deny the jurisdiction of the court, on the ground that
all the parties were citizens of the same state, to wit, of Louisiana, that objection, however, was not insisted upon at the trial,
and is not sustainable on the admiralty side of this court. In
their.supplemental answer, they deny generally the allegations
of the libellants, and pray for the dismissal of the libel and
damages. The whole -account of the libellants against the
owners amounts to three thousand six hundred and ninetythree dollars and thirty-five cents, including the amount of the
written contracts entered into between the parties; of this sum
they acknowledge the payment of one thousand five hundred
dollars, -leaving, as they allege, a balance of two thousand one
hundred and ninety-three dollars and thirty-five cents due

JANUARY TERM 1833.
"[Ppyrouxand others v. Howard and Varion.]

them. By the first contract, made on the 11th September
1890 (the boat bemgthen in the water), the libellants agreed,
for the sum of one thousand one 'hundred and fifty dollars, to
make certin repairs on that part of the boat which was above
water, from the wheel home to the bow, and itwas further stipulated, that if they made any other repairs, by rellacmg unsound
timbers in any other part of the boat above water, not then
discovered, they were to be paid separately for so much. After
commencig the work, it was perceived-that the boat required
repairs .underthe water as well as above, and in consequence
of that discovery, the claimants, through captain Jarreau,
master of the boat and one of the owners, agreed to pay the
libellants four hundred and-seventy-five dollars for hauling outthe boat, and for launching her when. she should be repaired,
and as the quantity of work to be done was uncertain, it was
stipulated that an account of it should be kept, and if approved
of by captain Jarreau, under Whose inspection the work was to
be done, the claimants bound themselves to pay the amount
thus to be ascertained: this latter contract was madeon the
19th October last. After the boat was hauled out, it appears
the work under both contracts was carried on simultaneously
On a first view of the account current exhibited in this case,
it would seem, from the dates, that at least a part of the work
to be done under the first contract was again charged, but the
subsequent testimony taken in this case shows that these
charges were made on account of the extra repairs provided
for under the first contract; and it further appears that all the
charges made after the 19th of October, have no relation to
the first agreement, but all relate to the work contemplated by
the second contract. From the complexion of the testimony
taken by the complainants their real defence seems to be that
the prices of the work charged are -greater than they should
be, that it was -not executed in a proper manner, and that the
libellanfs have forfeited a considerable sum of money in consequence of not delivering the boat within the time stipulated in
the contract. As to the two first objections, the evidence is
conclusive in favour of the libellants; captain Jarreau, himself,
upon being shown the account, did not object to it, on the
contrary, expressed himself satisfied'with the work, and said

SUPRL_.Es COOkr.
[Peyroux and others v. Howard and VaiLon.]

he was "not surprised at- it, because there was a great deal
more work done than he had any idea of;" with respect to the
non-delivery of the boat at the time agreed upon, the fault
chiefly attaches to captain Jarreau,. who, in several instances,
retarded the work by opposing repairs which were proposed by
the libellants, but which turned out to be indispensable, and
were afterwards ordered by him to be made, besides, he promised them indemnity against their obligation to pay twentyfive dollars a day for every day they were in default in delivering the, boat, and gave as the reason, that they had to do more
work than was at first anticipated. The charge of four hundred and seventy-five dollars, is for the specific service of hauling out and launching the boat, and must be allowed as such.
On the whole, the evidence and exhibits in the case fully
sustain the demand of the libellants; it is therefore ordered,
adjudged and decreed, that the claimants pay to them the said
sum of one thousand one hundred and ninety-three dollars and
thirty-five cents, and costs of suit."
From this decree the owners of the Planter appealed to this
court.

The case was argued for the appellants by Mr Morton. Mr
Livingston submitted a printed argument.
For the appellants it was contended.
1. It does not appear, upon the proceedings, that the court
below had jurisdiction.
2. That the libellants had waived any privilege or lien upon
the said steamboat, under the laws of Louisiana, and therefore
proceedings in rem were improper.
3. Though the court had iurisdiction, yet the decree rendered is erroneous.
On the first point, "that it does not appear, upon the proceedings, that the court below had jurisdiction ;" Mr Morton
contended, that jurisdiction should appear affirmatively, for
the district courts of the United States are of limited .urisdiction, and their proceedings are erroneous if the jursdiction be
not shown upon them. Kemp's Lessees v. Kennedy, 5 Cranch,
184, Walker v Turner, 9 Wheat. 341L And this rule is ap-

JANUARY TERM 1833.
Jpeyroux and others v. Howard and Varion.]

plicable to all courts of mfenor jurisdiction (Stanyon v. Davis,
6 Mod. 224, the Lord Coningsby's case, 9 Mod. 95), and has
been adopted by the appellate court, from the earliest penods
of judicial. history, for the purpose of restraining' inferior tribunals within their appropriate spheres of action, and preventing
the possibility of their passing thidoe bounds, even by the assent
of parties below, to the erroneous exercise of power.
To sustain the jurisdiction of the court below, it must appear
affirmatively, either that the Planter was a "foreign vesseb"
or, being a domestic vesse', that the lien or privilege created
by the laws of Louisiana, constituted her a proper subject for
the action of a court of admiralty. The first is not contended
for on the part of the libellants; and to maintain the second,
it mUt be shown affirmatively, that ihe Plapter "wa .I engaged
in a. maritime employment," being a navigation "super altum
mare," or "substantially upon waterswithin ebb and flow of
the tide.;" constituting a case of admiralty jurisdiction, as recogrzed "by the law, admiralty and maritime, as it has existed for ages," which alone, the admiralty courts of the United
States act under, and have authority to admister to the cases
as they anse. The Steamboat Thomas Jefferson, Johnson
claimant, 10 Wheat. 428; ,American Insurance Company v.
Canter, lTeters's Rep. 545; The St Jago de Cuba, 9 Wheat.
409, 416; The General Smith, 4 Wheat. 438; Ramsey v.
Allegree, 12 Wheat. 611, Ship Robert Fulton, 1 Pame'sC. C.
Rep. 545. Admiralty jurisdiction is not then to be inferred,
because a vessel is the subject, and a state law has created aHen, however positively these facts may be alleged upon a
record, and remain uncontroverted: a converse doctrine -would
have sustained the jurisdiction in the case of the Jefferson,
before cited; and would equally establish an admiralty jurisdiction, wtiere state laws had created liens, whether upon tideless rivers or upon the waters of the lakes: in all of which
cases, it may be observed, that the vice-admiralty colomal
courts would have exercised jurisdiction -by virtue of- their
peculiar commissions; but not as. cases of admiralty junsdiction, which they never were, and to constitute them such
wouid not be within the power of congress: though to a certan" extent, a jurisdiction over them might be confered upon
'VOL. VIL-2 R.

SUPREME COURT.
[Peyroux and others v. Howard and Varlon.]

the district courts, under the power "to regulate commerce
among the states," as is intimated in the case of the Jefferson.
For the extent of power conferred on the vice-admiralty courts
by their commssions, see 2 Gall. 470, note 47, for Commis.
of V Ad. Court.
"A libel not alleging a thing done 'super altum mare,'
nothing appears to give the courtjunsdiction; for a man shall
-not sue in the admiralty only because it is a vessel." "The
principal" must be shown to be within their jurisdiction.
Shermoulin v. Sands; 1 Lord Raym. 271, 1 Kent's Com. 33,
Hall's Ad. Prac. 135, 137, 2 Brown's Civ. and Ad. Law, 271.
What does appear upon the record, is relied upon to be suffici6nt for Wferring jurisdiction in the court below.
The libel only alleges, that the- libellants have a lien and
privilege upon said boat by tie admiralty law, and by the law
of Louisiana, being merely a statement of consequences, that'
could but give jurisdiction of the case to the court, as a result, should it appear by further facts, that the Planter was
engaged in a "maritime employment," navigating "super
altum mare," or "waters within ebb and flow of the tide;"
neither of which are to be found m any part of the record of
the proceedings below, and in the absence of which, the clear
bearng of the authorities indicates that no jurisdiction can ever
be inferred "the case not appearing to be a maritime contract, nor made such by the state law," which it is admitted
must be done to maintain the jurisdiction of the court.
It would seem to have, been conceded on the part of the
libellants, that were the inception, progress and termzm of the
Planter's employment, beyond ebb and flow of the tide, or substantially such, the case would clearly be within that of the
Thomas Jefferson, 10 Wheat. 428. It is submitted with some
confidence, that this state of 'facts is but a fair inference from
the whole record of the case.
It is by no means conceded that New Orleans is within the
ebb and flow of' the tide, on the contrary, that the court will
notice the notorious and historical fact that t is beyond the
ebb and flow of the tide, that the Mississippi river is not an
arm of the sea, nor an inlet from the ocean, but an inland
river, whose current assumes but one course or flux to the

JANUARY TERM -1833.
[Peyroux and others v. Howard and Varion.]
,ocean, and is uninfluenced by its tides. The Apollon, 9
Wheat. 374. 3 Dall. 297. Hooker v. Cummings, 20 Johns.
Rep. 98. Malte Brn's Geography, vol. 5, p. 58, book 79, ed.
of 1826. Stoddard's Louisiana, 164, ch. 4.
A"U arm of the sea is wbere the sea or tide "flows and
reflows." Sir Henry Constable's case, 5 Coke's Rep. 107.
A navigable river is also considered as an anm of the sea, but
there is an important distinction between the legal and popular import of the term "navigable," as applied to rivers; and no
part of the law is more c) arly settled, than that to determine,
'whether or not a river.is navigable, a regard must be had to
the "ebbing and flowing of the tide." For those streams of
water which are of public use for inland navigation above the
line to which the tide ordinarily flows, are strictly "not navigable," though they. are public highways, for the purpose of
transportation, although the water is~fresh at full tide, yet the
river is still an arm of the sea if it "flows and reflows."
This has never been controverted m England, and is well
settled in this country. Angell on tide waters, chap. 4, p. 60,
ed. of 1826, where will be found collected all the English and
American authorities upon the subject.
"The tide is not felt a New Orleans. The rise and fall of
the river is caused exclusively by the rainy and dry season in
the interior, at low water the flow to the sea is scarcely
perceptible." From the surveyor general of Louisiana. Hall's
Travels, vol. 2, 284.
The tides have little effect upon the water at New Orleans.
They "sometimes" cause it to "swell" but never to "slacken
its current." Stoddard's Louisiana, 164, ch. 4.
The employment of the Planter, thus, in its3inception, appearmg not to have been of a maritime nature, is shown in its further progress to have been exclusively beyond the ebb and
flow of the tide. The second contract states that the boat is
to be delivered "ready to receive a cargo." The testimony
shows her to have been "launched and partly laden." The
return of the marshal shows her redelivery to claimants.
The testimony of Wilson states Jarreau to have acted as
commander when the Planter was launched, and as commanding her at the time witness gave -his evidence. The

SUPREME COURT.
[Peyrou and others v. Howard and Vation.]

affidavit of claimants states that Captain Jarreau was theif navigating "on the Mississippi, between New Orleans and Bayou
Sarah, and on the Red river between New Orleans .and
Alexaudria."
As in the case of the Jefferson, the court noticed that Shipping port was beyond ebb and flow of tide, without any positive evidence appearng on the record, so will they notice
the same fact, as to New Orleans, Bayou Sarah, Alexandria,
Baton Rouge, and Red river. The last four places being also
historically noted as equally beyond tide water. Darby's
Louimana, 95, 197. Stoddard's Louimana, 165, 186
The record then affords evidence that the Planterb having
been redelivered to the claimants, ani. laden with cargo, was
employed, not in "maritime service," nor m trading "to Mobile, Pensacola, or intermediate places," but in navigating
between .New Orleans, Bayou Sarah, Red river, and Alexandna, presenting a case of "interior trade," wherein the inception, intermediate progress and termination of the voyage were
wholly beyond admiralty jurisdiction. On the part of the
libellants, it is assumed that New Orleans is within tide water,
and a doctrine thereupon is applied drawn from-the case of the
Jefferson, 10 Wheat. 428, that admiralty jurisdiction is susta4able when the "nweptiom" of the contract, &c. is thus circumstanced. But that case we suppose to establish a converse
doctrine. The "nception," &c. being there noticed by the
court as not answering to the idea of a navigation "substantially" beyond tide waters, so as to oust admiralty jurisdiction,
and consequently not sufficient to confer jurisdiction, were
alone relied upon as substantially "a maritime employment."
It is not. perceived in what manner the infetences adverse
to the jurisdiction below become negatived, or the defective
libel aided through the evidence of a public act making New
Orleans a port of entry. Could an analogous law for Shipping
port in Kentucky, have varied -the views taken bythe court of
that case I The general collection law of March 1799, see.
4, creates various ports of entry and delivery upon Lake Champlain, Ontario, ,and -Lake Erie; and supposing a case similar
to the present to be now bef6re the court from the northern
district of New York, thie force of these laws is not realized, if

JANUARY TERM 1833.

3s3

[Peyrmx and others v. Howard and Vance.]

invoked to aid the court in determining, admiralty and mari,time jurisdiction upon those waters. "Cases in admiralty do
not anse-under the constitution and -laws of the United States."
Amer. Ins. v. Canter, 1 Peters, 545.
The .pleadings on the part of the claimants are not only
sufficient to sustain all the exceptions now taken, but to warrant the inference, that they were taken below and overruled.
They plead to the jurisdiction first, on the ground that alt
the owners are residents, &c., which having been overruled,
subsequently a supplemental answer and plea were filed, deny.
mg generally all the allegations contained in the libel. Neither the reasons for disallowing the objections to the jurisdiction, if offered, under both of these- pleadings, nor the. objections themselves, appear, the court below, alone noticing that
part of the evidence, upon which, "in its judgment" the real.
defence of the claimants rested.
Under the first point then, it is believed that the court will
eitherdisniiss the case as not showing jurisdiction upon the
face of the proceedings, or remand the same, for the purpose
of settling the facts upon which the jurisdiction must rest, if it
is to be sustained.
The second point made on the part of the appellants is.that the libellants had waived any privilege orlien upon the
boat, under the taws of Louisiana, and, therefore, proceedings
,'inrem" were improper.
In 'other words, that the inference is fairly. deducible from
the case, that it was within the contemplation of the parties,
that their contracts should not create a right to "provisional
seizure," under articles 284 and '289 of the Code of Practice of'
1830, p. 104, and article 2748 of the Civil Code.
It is observed on the part of libellants, that, in this case,
extraordinary diligence. was used. to enforce a right which
would have been lost, had the vessel been permitted to depart
without its'exercise, and the uiference would seem to be suggested, that probably such a state of things- w: s within the
contemplation of libellants, when entering into the agreemunm Itis certamlytrue, that atticle 2748, referred'to, de.
clares the privilege to ceasS, if the boat is allowed to depart
without exeromg the right of seizure.

SUPREME COURT.
[Peyroux and others v. Howard and Varion.]

But this effect takes place only, if the contract should not
have been reduced to writing, and if the amount should exceed five hundred dollars, and the contract be reduced to writmng, the privilege may be unlimited. Civil Code, article 2743,
2747. The "curia philippica," "quoad" liens orpnvileges on
vessels, is supposed to have been abrogated by articles 3521,
2746 and 2748 of the Louisiana civil code, although referred
to as yet subsisting, in a note to Abbott on Shipping, p. 116,
ed. of 1829.
The reducing the contract to wriling, may then be fairly
taken as expressing the intention of the parties, that the right
to a provisional seizure should be wholly suspended, but the
right preserved until the return of the vessel, and to'be exercised only in the event of a failure of personal responsibility on
the part of claimants, to which, by the terms of the contract
of 19th October, the libellants alone think proper to look.
That full reliance must have been placed in-the immediate
return of the Planter to New Orleans, is apparent, from the
fact of her ownership and commercial employment there, as
well as by the evidence upon the record, showing New Orleans
to have been the inception and termim, after her voyage upon
the rivers throughout the interior of the country. And
as conclusively affirming this view of the intention of the
libellants, is the further fact evidenced by the contract of the
19th October, of extendiig a credit of two hundred and seventyfive dollars, forming a portion of the aggregate sum, to one
month after the Planter should have been launched, set afloat
and delivered, ready to receive a cargo-an evident suspension
of the right to provisional seizure, until after the Planter must
have left the jurisdiction of the court, showing clearly that such
an understanding existed between the parties as justifies an application of the principle in the note to Raitt v. Mitchell, 4
Campbell, 150, and which is conceded to be entirely compatible with the laws of Louisiana.
The construction placed upon the contract of 19th October
by the libellants, limits it to "thirty days after the vessel
should be. set afloat;" but it is presumed this limitation will
not be sanctioned, and when the whole contract is brought

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Peyroux anri oners v. Howard and V'anon.1

into n9tice and its parts viewed .mconnexion, that consLruction
contended for by 'the appellaxnts, must be affirmed.
Under the second point, then it -is admitted, that superadding to other corroborating circumstances, the extension of
credit for a portion of the aggregate amount involved, to a
period after the right -to provisional seizure could have been
exeroispd, brings the case within the doctrine of Raitt v.
Mitchell, 4 Campb. N. P 150.
The third point relied upon by the appellants is, that the
decree rendered, is erroneous. In support of this position
Mr Morton went into a particular examination of the evidence.
This part of the argument is stated and examined in the
opinion of the court.
The decree rendered is further erroneous, in that it directs
four hundred and seventy-five dollars, charged in the account
of libellants for drawing the boat out of -the water, to be paid
to them, of which sum, two hundred and seventy-five dollars,
by the.express terms of the contract of 19th October, were not
demandable until "1one month after the libellants had delivered thd Planter afloat, and ready to receive a cargo."
[Here the cbunsel went into a particular examination of the
evidence.]
The regulation of the subject of "1liens or privileges," and
provisional seizure, by the laws of Louisiana, will be found
mainly to have in view the internal trading navigation of the
country, from New Orleans. Art. 284bf the Code of Practice
of 1800, which is a oomment upon Art. 2748 of the Civil Code,
has alone reference to "water craft within the state," and
Art. 289 of the same, after dealing-much in detail upon "litn
and provisional seizure of ships, vessels or water craft, navigating within the state,"' in 5 separate sedtion, and as an exception to the general purview and scope of the legislation, further
provides that "such seizure may be made 'even' of ships -or
vessels trading out of the state, " and their laws appearto have
had in view, among other subjects, the intricate matters of
dispute, involved with 'the peculiar internal steamboat navigation fron New Orleans, by affording vranous aids and facilities,
susceptible of being adapted to most of the difficulties that
would anse, and of which aids their courts have expreas power

SUPREME COURT.
[Peyroux and others v. HowPrL and Vanon.]

to avail themselves. Thus from Art 441 to 461 of the Code
of Practice of 1830, are recognized, " exx prts," persons versed
in the knowledge either of a science, an art, or a profession,
selected in order to give their opinion, on some point or question, on which the decision of a. cause depends." Also, "auditors" of accounts, "judicial" arbitrators, &c. &c. whose detailed services are therein fully enumerated, but none of
whom, it is supposed, could ba required to act by the district
court of the United States, however essential to the elucidation
of a cause.
From the decisions of the inferior tribunals, invested with
cognizance of these cases, the right of appeal, and a speedy
final determination of the appellate court is carefully provided
for by art. 570 to 603 of the Code of Practice for Louisiana
of 1830.
In conclusion, it issubmitted that, if the inference b not
decidedly adverse to the jurisdiction below, upon the face of
the proceedings, yet important facts identified with that junsdiction, do appear of so doubtful and unsettled a character
as to render it proper to remand the case for a satisfactory establishment of those facts.
That, although it should be considered. that proceedings
below "in rem? were proper, yet material errors having been
obviously incorporated with the decree; renders its enforcement.
unpossible, and makes it now essential for the ends of justice,
that the whole subject be remanded for.that full re-investigation, through which those ends can alone be attained.
Mr Livingston, for the appellees, stated
The main objection to the decree m this case is, that the
distnot court of Louisiana, as a court of admiralty, had no
jurisdiction of the case.
The libellants contend for the jurisdiction on tie privilege
granted .by general maritime law, and on the expresa lien
given by the laws of the state.
1. The general maritime law. Cases are abundant to show
that shipwrights have a pfivilege on the ship for repairs and, a
right to libel her to enforce it. Roll's Ab. 533, 1 Peters's Admiralty Reports, 297, 233.

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[!Peyodx and others v. Howard and Vanon.]

2. The laws of the state give the privilege without reducing
the agreement to writing, as Is requred ui- other cases.. Lou.
isiana Civ. Cod. art. 2748.
It is argued that a state law cannot give junrmction to a
court of the United States. In one sense this is true a state
law cannot extend such jurisdiction, but they may create. a
right which can only be enforced by such a court. For m.
stance, by the general admiralty law, a master of a shipcannot
sue i the admiralty for his wages bya libel on the ship, because, by the maritime law, he has no lien on the vessel But
suppose a state law to give such lien for all contracts made
with the owners in the state, the maritime court of the UnitedStates, it is apprehended, would take cogmzance of the case;
and enforce the law. This, it is acknowledged, would not be
done unless the case made by the state is a maritime contract.
Is this such an one I In the case of Jefferson, 10 Wheat. the
manners could not sue m the district court, because the scrvie, in its inception, progress and termination, was above the
ebb and flow of the sea, the inference then is plain, that if the
contract and service had, either in the beginmng, end, or any
intermediate point, been within the ebb and flow-of the sea,
the decision would have been different. In the -pesent case
the contract was made, the work begun and completed in a
seapon, where there is a regular flux and reflux whenever the
river is in its ordinary statr,
Should it be objected that it does not appear that the
steamboat in question was intended, after her repair, to na.
vigate within the ebb and flow, the answer is, first, that the
presumption must be that she -was intended to navigate to
and from the place where her owners .resided and where
she was repaired,. that, at any rate, the inception of her first
voyage must be from the seaport where she was Whether
to go on the coasting trade by sea to Mobile, Pensacola, or the
intermediate places, or to ply between the sea and the part, is
at -leastas probable as that she -was for the interior trade. Nor
was it necessary for the libellants to state this. In a libel for
repairs of a vessel, it is sufficient to describe it by the name
given to vessels of that class, as ship,, schooner, &c. without
averring that the repairs were intended to enable her to proeVOL. VII -% S

SUPREME COURT
(Peyroux and others v. Howard and Vanon.]

cute a sea voyage, yet vessels of all descriptions, sometimes
navigate waters above -the flux and reflux'of the sea. So, in
the present case, it was sufficient to call the vessel, on which
the repairs were done, a steamboat, for steamboats are as frequently, and perhaps more so, employed on tide-water, as above
it. If the exception were material, it ought to have been made
by the answer, but here the objection in the answer is merely
to the person of the libellants.
If it should be objected that the fact'of New Orleans being
within the ebb and flow of the sea is not in evidence, the answer is, that there are notorious facts with which courts arevupposed-to be conversant, and of which they will take notice
without further 'proof. Thus, in the case of La Vengeance,
3 Dall. 297, 1 Petel's Cond. Rep. 132, the court takes official
notice of the situation of Sandy Hook; and in the case from
20 Johnson, cited by the defendant, they assume, in like man;ner, that Salmon river is a fresh water river, and that it has no
-flux and reflux. In the case before the court, there is moreover the t idence of a public act, making New Orleans a port
of entry' and delivery.
The-second error assigned in the printed- statenment is, that
the libellants had waived any privilege or lien on the steamboat by the laws of Louisiana. If this were made out,, it would
not affect-the right of the libellants under the law maritime.
But it is not perceived that there'is any evidence of such waiver. The article which gives the privilege declafes that-it
shall be lost if the party suffer the vessel to depart without exercising the right, and this is the only condition. But in this
case extraordinary diligence was used, and the libel calls for
the immediate interposition of the court to prevent the departure. The vessel crossed the river from the sip-yard on the
8th of December, the libel was filed on the 10th, and the
seizure made on the 11th of the same month.
That an express 'contract for a specific sum is not a waiver
,of the privilege is proved, by the case cited by the defendant
from 4th Camp. 150. Such a rule could only have been made
by.using the word credit m. a sense in which it was not employed; The workman may be said to perform his labour on
the credit of the owner, when he takes ins promise for a certain

JANUARY TERM 1833;
[Peyroun and others v. Howard and Varion.]

L

sum to be paid in cash on the finishng of the-work, and in.
this. sense the rule applies, and was considered an implied
waiver of the'privilege. In the case before the court there
are two different contracts, both written. By the first, for certam specified repairs, the owners agree; "in the name of the
boat," so pay in cash one thousand one hundred and ffty
dollars; by the second, it being found it would be necessary
to haul up the boat, .four hundred and seventy-five dollars
.were agreed to be.paid for that service, two hundred in cash,
and two hundred and seventy-five in thirty days after the boat
should be set, afloat; and it is further agreed that the libellants
should caulk and repair the boat so that she shall not leak, to
be paid for as soon as the account shall be approved, Here, it
will be obsorved, that no termi of tine was- given for any part
except the two hundred and seventy-five dollars~for hauling up,
the- boat, this was to -be paid thirty days after the boat was
set afloat. Wihen that happened does not appear. She came
over to the town side of the river on the 8th of December, but.
when she was launched was not said. Part of the oe thou'sand five hundred dollars paid may then be reasonably imputed
to this balance of two hundred and seventy-fivedollars, because
the debt for the extra repairs was not due until they were
firiished,. and it- appears they were not. fimshed until the suit
was brought. Where then there are two debts, one already
payable, the other not, a sum paid withrout designation shall
be-imputed to that which is due. Civil Code, article 2162.
Therefore, this part of the debt, on wlich credit was given
being extinguished no question can arise as to the lien for the.
balance.
There remain now only the objections to the sum allowed.
On this point the courtis referred to .the full and conclusive
testimony offered by the libellants, that all the materials and
workmen they furnished were necessary-that they were actually furnished-that they are not oveiaharged-that the work
was carried on under the inspection of the aptam, and was
acknowledged to have been executed to his -satisfaction.
Mr Justice THoMPsoN delivered the opimon of the Court.
This case comes' up from the district court of the-United

SUPREME COURT.
EPyroux and others v. Howard and Varlon.]

States for the eastern district of Louisiana. The proceedings
in the court below "ere in rem against the steamboat Planters
to recover compensation for repairs made upon th6 boat.
The libel states that Howard and Varon, shipwnglits, residing in the city of New Orleans, heA found materials and
performed certain work on the steamboat Planter, for which
the said steamboat and her owners were justly indebted to
them in the sum of two thousand one hundred and nnetythree dollars and thirty-five.cents; and alleges that by the admiralty law, and the laws of the state of Louisiana, they have
a lien and privilege upon the boat, her tackle, apparel and. furniture for the payment of the same, and prays admiralty process against the boat, ahd that the usual monition may issue.
The appellants afterwards qppeared in court and filed their
claim and plea, alleging that they are citizens of Louisiana,
and residing in the city of New Orleans, and.that they are the
sole and lawful owners of the steamboat Planter; and alleging
further, that the. libellants are also citizens of the same state,
and that the court had no jurisdiction of the case.
The plea to the jurisdiction of the court was overruled, and
a supplemental and amended claim and answer filed, denying
all and singular the facts set forth in the.libel. and by consent
of parties an order of court.was enteredi that the testimony of
the witnesses for the respective parties be taken before the
clerk of.the court, and read in evidence upon the trial, subject
to all legal exceptions, and upon the hearing of the cause the
court decreed that the claimants should pay to the libellants
two thousand one hundred and mnety-three dollars and thirtyfive cents, and costs of suit. An appeal to this court was pray.
ed and allowed.
Upon the argument here, the following points have been
made.
1. It does not appear upon the proceedings, that the court
below had jurisdiction of the case.
1. That the libellants had waived any privilege or lien upon
the steamboat under the law of Louisiana, and therefore proceedings in rem were improper.
-3. If the court had jutisdiction, the decree is erroneous on
the merits:

JANUARY TERM 1883.
[Peyroul and others -. Howard and Vanon.]

The want, of jurisdiction in the district court is not put on
the ground set up in. the plea in the court below, that 6ll the
parties were citizens-of the same state. This has been very
properly abandoned here, as entirely inapplibable to admiralty
proceedings in the district court. But it is said that it does not
appear upon the face of the proceedings, that the- cause of
action properly belonged to admiralty jurisdiction. There can
be no doubt that it must appear from the proceedings, that the
court had jurisdiction of the case.
The proceeding isin rem aganst.a steamboat, for materivs
found and work performed in repairing the vessel in the port
of Niw Orleans, as is alleged in the libel, under a conitract
entered into between the parties for that purpose. It is therefore a maritime contract; and if the service was to be performed in a place within the jurisdiction of the-admiralty, and
the lien given by the local law of the state of Louisiana, it will
bring the case within tht jurisdiction of the court.
By the Civil Code of Louisiana, article 2748, workmen emplqyed in the construction or repair of ships and boats enjoy
the privilege established by the code, without being bound to
reduce their contracts to writing, whatever may be their
amount; but this privilege ceases if they have allowed the ship
-or boat to depart without exercising their right. Tha state
law, -therefore, gives a lien in cases like the present.
In the case of the General Smith, 4 Wheat. 438, it is decided, that the junsdiction of the admiralty in such cases,
where the repairs are upon a domestic vessel, depends upon
the local law of the state. Wherethe repairs have been made,
or necessaries furnished to a foreign ship, or to a ship an the
ports of a state to which she does not belong, the general
maritime law gives a lien on the ship as security,.and the
party may maintain a suit in the admiralty to enforce his right.
But as to repairs or necessaries in the port or state to which
the ship belongs, the case is governed altogether by the local
law of the state, bnd no lien is implied unless it is recognized
-by that law. But if the local law gives- the lien, it may be
enforced in the admiralty.
It is said, however, that the place where these services were
performed, was not*within the jurisdiction of the admiralty,

SUPREME COURT.
[Peyroux and others v. Howard and Vanoa.]

serviles in this case were. performed in the port of New
Orleans, and whether this was within the jurisdiction of the
ourt or not, will depend upon the fact, whether the tide in
tie Mississippi ebbs and flows as high up the river as New
Orleans.
This is a question of fact, and it is not undeserving of notice,
that although there was a plea to the jurisdiction of the court
interposed, the objection was not set up. Had it been put in
issue,. the evidence -would probably have removed all doubt
upon that question, not having been set up, it affords an inference that the objection could not have been sustained by proof.
But we think we are authorized "judicially to notice the
situation of New Orleans, for the purpose of determining
whether the tide ebbs and flows as higb up the river as that
place. In thd case of the Apollon, 9 Wheat. 374, it is said by
this court, that it has been very justly observed at the bar, that
the court is bound to take notice of public facts and geographical positions: and in the case of the steamboat Thomas Jefferson, the libel claimed wages earned on a voyage from Shipping port m the state of Kentudky, up the river Missouri, and
back again to the port of departure. And the court say, that
the voyage, 'not only in its commencement and termination,
but in all its intermediate progress, was several hundred miles
above the ebb and flow of the tide, and, therefore, in no just
sense can the wages be considered as earned in a maritime
employment. It is fairly to be inferred, that the court judicially noticed the fact, that the tide did not ebb and flow within
the range of voyage upon which the services were rendered,
as there is no intimation of any evidence before the court to
establish the fact.
It cannot certainly be laid down as a umversal,' or even as a
general proposition, that the court can judicially notice matters
of. fact. Yet it cannot be doubted that there are many facts,
particularly with respect to geographical positions, of such
public notoriety, and the knowledge of which is to be derivedfrom other sources than parol proof, wluch the court may
judicially notice. Thus in the case of the'United States v.
La Vengeance, 3 Dali. 297, 1 Peters's Cond. Rep. 152, the
court judicially noticed the geograplucal position of Sandy
,The

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Peyroux and others v. Howard and Varlon.]

Hook. And it nibay certainly take notice judicially of like notorious facts, aa that 'the bay of New York, for" instance, is
within the ebb and flow of the tide.
The appellants' counsel has referred the court to Stoddard's
Loisiana, 164, for the purpose-of showing that the tide does
not -,ebb and flow at New Orleans, but we think it affords a
contrary' conclusion.. The author bays, "the tides hpve little
effect upon the water at :New Orleans, they sometimes cause
it to swell, but never to slacken its current." No distinction
has eve' been attempted in settling the line between the admiralty and common law jurisdiction, growing out of the greater
or less influence of the tide. So far as that admiralty junsdiction depends upon locality, it is bounded by the ebb and flow
of the tide, and if the-influence of the tide is at i felt, it must
determine the question. No other certain and fixed rule can
be adopted. and tp determining this, we must look at the ordinary state of the water,-umnfluenced by any extraordinary
freshets.
The authority- of Mr Stoddard goes to show that the tides
have some effect upon the wat~i at New Orleans, they cause
it to swell, but not so much as to slacken the current. In the
cage of Rex v. Smith and others, 2 Doug. 441, -itbecame a.
question whether the sea could properly be said to flow above
London bridge. It was contended that the tide beyond that
limit was occasioned by the pressure and accumulation backwards of the river water. Lord Mansfield said, a distinction
between the case of the tide occasioned by the flux of sea wa-I-r
or by the pressure backwards of the fresh water of a nve-r.
seemed entirely new.
We think that although the current in the Missi§sippi, at
New Orleans, may be- so strong as not to be turnedbackwards
by the tide, yet if the effect of the tide upon the current is so
great as to occasion a regular rise and fall of the water, it may
properly be said to be within the ebb and flow of the tide.
It has been argued on the part of the appellant, that the
evidetice shows that this steamboat was to be employed in navigating waters beyond the ebb and flow of the tide, and therefore not employed in the maritime service. In the case of the
steamboat Jefferson, the court said, there is no doubt the juns-

SUPREME COURT.
[Peyroux and others v. Howard and Vanon.]

diction exists, although the commencement or termination of
the voyage may.happen to be at some place beyond the reach
of the tide. The material consideration is, whether the service is essentially a maritime service. and to be perforkned
substantially on the sea or on tide water. All the service in
the edse now -before the court was at New Orleans, and the
first voyage, at all events, was to commence from'that port
The objectiop, therefore to the jurisdiction of the court cannot
be sustained.
2. The second exception is founded on a supposed waiver
of any privilege or lien, and that the appellees trusted alone
to the personal responsibility of the owners of the steamboat.
To determine this question, it becomes necessary to look at
the contracts.under which the repairs were made.
The first bears date on the I1th of September 1830, by
which certain specified repairs were to be made, for which the
appellafits stipulated to pay one thousand five hundred dollars.
No time is fixed for the payment. The repairs contemplated
by this contract were such only as could be made without
hauling up the boat. In the progress of the work, however,
it, was discovered that more repairs were ne6essmry than had
been supposed, and which could not be made without nauling
up the boat. And on the 19th of October 1830, another con-tract was entered into, by which 'the owners agreed to pay
four. hundred and seventy-five dollars for hauling up the boat,
two hundred dollars of which was to be paid in cash, and the
balance in one month after the boat shall be launched and set
afloat. The boat was then to be repaired under the instruction
of Captain Jarreau, the work to be paid for when the account
shall be approved by Captain Jarreau. The boat to be repaired
and delivered afloat by the 20th of November, ready to receive
a cargo, the appellees were to allow twenty-five dollars a day
for each day they retarded the delivery.
An express contract having been entered into between the
parties under which these repairs were made is no waiver of
the lien, unless such contract contains stipulations mionsistent
with the lien, and from which it may fairly be inferred that a
waiver was intended, and the personal responsibility of the
party only relied upon. Express contracts are generally made

.JANUARY TERM U833.

345

[Peyroux and other v. Howard and Varion.]

for freight and seamen's wages, but this has never been -supposed to operate as a waiyer of a lien on the vessel, for the
same. There are certainly some of the older authorities whfch
would seem to give countenance to the doctrine that an ex-press contract operated as a waiver of- the Hen, but whatever.
.may have been the old iule on the subject, it is settled at the
present day, that anexpress- contract for a specific. sum is not
of itself a waiver of the lien,.but that to produce -that effect,
the contract 4iust contain -some, stipulations.-inconsistent with
the continuance of -such lien, or. from -which a waiver may
fairly be inferred. Hutton v. Bragg, 2 MarshA I,-339;. 4 Camp.
145, and the cases cited in note.
Applying these rules to the case before us, we cant-discpver
nothing (except as to, two hundred and seventy-five dollars,
the balance for hauling out the boat; which will be noticed
hereafter), inconsistent with the right of a lien, or. indicating
any intention to waive it. In the first contract no time is fixed
.for the payment of the one thousand five hundred dollars, it
became payable, therefore, as soon as the work was completed.
And the repairs under the sepond contract were to.be paid for
as soon as the -account was approved by Captain Jarreau.
There is nothing, therefore, from which it can be inferred-that
any. time of credit was to be allowed: The- balance of two
hundred and seventy-five dollars, for hauling out the steamboat, stands upon a footing a little different. That was to be
paid in one month after the boat was launched and set afloat.
A credit was here given,. and a credit too beyond the time
when, in all probability, the boat would have left the port of
New Orleans, for it can hardly be supposed that -it would
have taken thirty days to load her. And by the Civil Code of
Louisiana, Art. .2748, the- privilege ceases if the ship or boat
is allowed to depart without exercising the right.
As to this sum, therefore, the decree is erroneous.
3. The principal ground of complaint under the third point
made at the bar is, that the appellants have been made to pay
twice for some part of the work. Tlat .is, that part of the
work which was to be done under the first contract, and for
which they were to pay one thousand- five hundred dollars, has
VOL. VJI.-2 T

346

°

SUPREME COURT.

[Peyroux and others v. Howard and Vaion.]
-been charged under the second contract. There is certainly
some confusion growing out of the manner inwhich this work
wag carried on under the different contracts. The work which
was to be performed under the first, was not completed when
the second was entered into, and both being cared on at the
same time, might very easily occasion some mistake. And m
addition to this, there was, under the first contract, some extra
work to be done and paid for over and above the stipulated
sum of one thousand five hundred dollars, which rendered it
still more diffibult lo keep the accounts for materials and labour
under the different contracts, separate and distinct. The evidence was taken in writing out of court, and no opportunity
afforded for explanation upon these points. The district judge,
feeling the difficulties growing out of these circumstances, ordered Wilson, one of ihe witnesses whose deposition had been
taken and read in evidience, to appear and answer in open
court. He was the iterk of the appellees, who had kept an
account of the timber used and work performed, and on his
examination he swore that all the charges and items for work
done, id-the accountif'the libellants, were over and above the
work done under the. first -contract for one thousand five hundred dollars. Thatkjthu libellants 'had'h-ands at work at the
repairs under the contract: and the extra work at the same
time. That 'there is -not a day's work nor a foot of plank
carged in the account which was to-be done under the first
contract. This testimony leaves xio reasonable doubt of the
correctness of the account. By the second contract, payment
was.-to be made whei the account was approved by Captain
Jarreau, no formal approval appears te have been made. But
he was a part owner,:-and-superintended the repairs, and'one
of. the witnesses .says hbe" was present when the account was
presented to Captain.arreitu, who. said he was not surprised
atit, because there was~a great del,more. work than he had
any idea of ,"and that he did nol think at first that she required
so much. This, although not a direct, was an implied approval of the account.
The delay iii not delivering the boat to the appellants by
the time specified in the contract, was occasioned by her unexpected state and condition, and the extent of repairs required.

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Peyroux and others v. Howard and Varion.]

And besides the delivery at the time mentioned in the contract,
was dispensed with by captain Jerreau.
Upon the whole, we are of opinion, that the decree of the
district court, as to the two hundred and seventy-five dollars,
"t be reversed, and in all other respects affirmed.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the circuit court of the United States for the eattern
district of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel, on consideration whereof, it is the opinion of thws court hait the decree of
the said district court as to the two hundred and seventy-five
dollars is erroneous and should be reversed, and that in all
other respects the said decree should be affirmed, whereupon,
it is ordered, adjudged and decreed by this court, that the decree of the said district court in this causei as to the balance
of iwo hundred and seventy-five dollars for hauling out the
steamboat, be, and the same is hereby reversed, and that the
said decree in all other respects be, and-the same is hereby
affirmed, and it is further ordered, that each party pay his own
costs in thus court.

