JANUARY TERM 1833.

Ex PARTE JUAN MADRAZZO.
Juan Madrazzo, a subj ect of tha king of Spain, filed a libel praying admiralty
process against the state of Georgia, alleging that the state was in possession of a certain sum of money, the proceeds of the sale of certain
slaves whichhad been seized as illegally brought into the state of Georgia;
and which seizure had been subsequently, under admiralty proceedings,
adjudged to have been illegal, and tht right of Madrazzo to the slaves,
and the money arsing from the sale thereof, established by the decision
of the circuit court of the United States for the district of Georgia. The
counsel for the petitioner claimed that the supreme court had jurisdiction
ofthe case, alleging that the eleventh amendment of the constitution of
the United States, which declares that the judicial power of the United
States shall not extend to any suits m law or equity, did not take away
the jurisdiction of the courts of the United States, in suits in the admirally
against a state. Held, that this is nota case where property is in custody
of a court of admiralty; or brought within its jurisdiction, and in the possession of any private person. It is a mere personal sit against a state
to recover proceeds in its possession, and such a-suit cannot be commenced in this court against a state.

MR WHITE presented a libel, in the admiralty, against the
state of Georgia, claiming relief by the aid of this court, in favour of the'libellant, a subject of his catholic majesty the king
of Spain, domiciled in the city of Havanna.
The right of the libellant to maintaid this proceeding against
the state of Georgia, Mr White stated, depended on the construction the court would give to the eleventh amendment of
the constitution of the United States, which declares that "the
judicial power of the United States shall not be construed to
extend to any suit in law or m equity, commenced or prosecuted
against one of the United States by citizens of another state,
or by citizens or subjects of any foreign state."
If the court should be of opinion, that, notwithstanding this
amendment, jurisdiction could be entertained in a suit in the
admiralty against a state, he asked that a citation in the nature of admiralty process, or -such other proceedings in the
case, as the court should deem proper, should be awarded
against the state of -Georgia, returnable to the next term of
this court.
The libel stated ihat the libellant, Juan Madrazzo, was a

SUPREME COURT.
[Ex parte Madrazzo.]

subject of the king of Spain, that about the 2d July 1817, a
vessel called the Isabelita, owned by him, with all the documrents on board to show her ownership and character, cleared
out from the city of Havanna for the coast of Africa with a
cargo of merchandize, his property, to trade there, exclusively
on Spanish account, for a -cargo of slaves, to be conveyed to
the said city, there to be disposed of for his sole account, property and risk. On the coast of Africa the vessel took on
board, purcjhased with the said merchandize, one hundred
and twelve slaves, and on her return voyage towards Havanna,
about the 1st of October 1817, she was captured by a piratical
or insurgent cruiser, under the commission of one Aurey, or
some other revolutionary flag of the revolted colonies of Sparn
not then recognized as an independent government, or in any
manner authorized to act as a belligerent power, by the laws
or consent of nations. The capturing vessel was called the
Successor, commanded by one Moore, an American citizen,
and was fitted out at Baltimore, and in the river Severn in the
state of Marylar d, for the purpose of cafrymng on hostilities
against the property and subjects of the king of Spain, with
whom the United States then were and still are at peace,
wherefore the said capture of the vessel was illegal, piratical
and felonious.
The Isabelita and her cargo were carried by the Successor
into the port of Fernandina in the island of Amelia, at that
time a colony of Spain, but usurped by the pretended patriots
or revolutionists affecting the rights of sovereignty and a separate station as a revolted independent government, but in truth
composed of a band of adventurers, chiefly American citizens,
united principallyby the hope of plunder, and not acknowledged
as an independent government for any civil or national purpose.
There the Isabelita and her cargo were condented as lawful
prize to the illegally commissioned piratical vessel, the Successor; by a tribunal pretending to exercise admiralty jurisdiction, under the usurped and assumed government of the place.
The vessel was afterwards restored to the libellant by a de-cree of the district court of the United States for the district of
South Carolina, exercising jurisdiction as a court of admiralty,
upon a libel filed for restitution on behalf of the libellant. The
proceedings in that case are invoked and referred to. The

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Ex pate

adrazzo.]

slaves, the cargo of the Isabelita, were sold under the illegal
decree pronounced at Fernandina, and by one William Bowen,
the purchaser, were conveyed to the Creek nation, where, at
a place called "the United States Agency," within the limits of
the said nation, they were, to the number of mnety-five, seized
and taken possession of by an officer of the United States, and
brought within the limits and district of Georgia. These
ninety-five slaves were subsequently- delivered over to the government of the state of Georgia, on pretence that they had
been illegally imported or introduced into the United States,
contrary to an act of congress, and in compliance with an act
of the assembly of the state of Georgia to carry the same into
effect. A part of the slaves were sold by the government
of Georgia or its officers or agents, without any form of trial
or judgment, as directed by the said act of assembly; and the
proceeds thereof, to the amount of forty thousand dollars, paid
into the treasury of the state of Georgia.
The residue .fthe slaves, twenty-seven or thirty -innumber,
remain in the possession of the state or its officers, or have been
converted to or disposed of by the state, f6r its own use, or
wrongfully delivered to some persons not entitled to the same,
and contrary to the will of the libellant. The slaves, or the
proceeds of those sold, coald not rightfully become the property of the state of Georgia, by virtue of the piratical capture,
seizure or condemnation, or by the unlawful acts of the pretended purchaser of the same, but the same remain the property of the libellant;
The libel further states that the governor of the state of
Georgia, on the 20th of May 1820, on the pretence that the
said negroes had been illegally transported to the Creek nation,
and unlawfully imported into the United States from some
foreign place, with intent to hold them to service and labour,
filed a libel in the district court of the United States for the
district of Georgia, alleging the unlawful importation, and that
a demand of them had been made by the society for the colonization of free people of colour iii Africa, which the governor alleged he was desirous of complying with, if authorized to do so
by a decree of the court. No specification is made of the number
of the slaves, and no mention is made of the illegal seizure and

SUPREME COURT.
[Ex parte Madrazzo.j

sale of the slaves, in the information, or of the payment of the
forty thousand dollars into the treasury of the state of Georgia.
The libel further states, that William Bowen, who had purchased the slaves, the cargo of the Isabelita, put m a claim for
the whole of the said slaves, on the 7th'November 1820; alleging that they were his property, and were not intended tobe
introduced into" the United States, but had been earned into
the Creek nation for safety, with the intention to remove them
to West Florida, a colony of Spain, the truth of whichallegation the libellant admits. The libellant, hearing of the proceedings in the district court of Georgia, filed a libel claiming
the slaves; and the district court dismissed the claim of William
Bowen and of the libellant, and decreed in favour of the governor of Georgia. That decree, on appeal to the circuit court
of the United States was reversed, -the claims of the state of
Georgia and of William Bowen were dismissed, and that court
decreed that the said slaves should be restored to the libellant,
Juan-Madrazzo, together with the proceeds of them, sold and
paid into the treasury of the state of Georgia.
From this decree, the governor of Georgia, on behalf of the
state, appealed to "thiscourt.
From the district court of the United States of Georgia, a
warrant of arrest upon the libel of this libellant was issued, but
the execution being prevented or evaded by the government
and officers of the state of Georgia, the same was never served.
A monition was also issued, and served on the governor and
treasurer of the state of Georgia.
The libel proceeds to state the proceedings in the circuit
court of.the sixth circuit, in which it was ordered that it should
be held a sufficient execution of the warrant, if the governor of
Georgia should sign an acknowledgement that the slaves were
held by him, subiect to the jursdiction of the court, upon
which, on the 15th of May 1823, John Clark, the governor of
Georgia, signed a paper filed in the court on the 24th December 1823, by which he acknowledged, that the governor of
Georgia held the negroes levied on by virtue of sundry executions by the sheriff of Baldwin county, "su bject to the order
of the circit court of the Unted States for the district of
Georgia, after the claim of the said sheriff, or prior thereto if

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Ex parte

tadrazzo)]

the claim in the circuit court shall be adjudged to have priority of the proceeding in the state court."
The libel states that the executions referred to had been
levied on the slaves as the property of William Bowen, and
the proceedings in the case showed that the same did not belong to him. That the. libellant relied' on the stipulation
entered into by th& governor of Georgia, by which the junsdiction of the circuit court of the United States was admitted,
and he proceeded to prosecute his appeal in the circuit court,
in which no exception to its .iunsdiction in the case was suggested or moved.
In the circuit court the rights of the libellant were established; the illegal outfit of the Successor was fully proved, and
every other matter shown to entitle him as a Spanish subject
to the restitution of his plundered property.
From the decree of the circuit court. appeals were entered
to the supreme court of the United States.
The libel then states the proceedings in the cases m the
supreme court at January term 1828, as the same are reported
in 1 Peters's Supreme Court Reports, 110, &c., and complains
that the jurisdiction of the supreme court in the case was demied by the governor of Georgia on behalf of the state, in direct
violation of the stipulation entered into by him, consenting
to, and acknowledging the said jurisdiction, by which the said
court were prevented proceeding to give a decree or judgment
in the case. That by reason of the proceedings aforesaid, and
of other acts of the state of Georgia, her officers and agents,
which the libel alleges to have been tortious, and by the sale
and dispersion of the slaves, the libellant is prevented seizing or
identifying his property; he is without remedy or redress, unless
this court will cause the state of Georgia to do him right in thepremises.
Wherefore the libellant prays the court to award admiralty
process against the state of Georgia, to be issued and served as
the court may dir'ect, citing the said state of Georgia, as well
as all others concernedi to show cause why the proceeds of the
said slaves, paid into the treasury of the said state, should not
be paid over to the libellant, the slaves remaining in the possession of the state restored to him, a just and reasonable cornpensation decreed to limn fr the slaves, conver(ed to her own

632

SUPREME COURT.
[Ex parte Madrazzo.]

use, or otherwise taken by the state, and such other damages
allowed to hun as the owner of the slaves, as the court might
think proper, against the state of Georgia, &c.
Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The case is not a case where the property is in custody of a
court of admiralty, or brought within its jurisdiction, and in the
possession of any private person. It is not, therefore, one for
the exercise of that jurisdiction. It is a mere personal suit
against a state to recover proceeds in its possession, and in such
a case no private person has a right to commence an original
suit in this court'against a state.

