JANUARY TERM 1833.

THOMAS DEYE OWINGS, AND OTHERS, APPELLANTS V. ANDREW
KINCANNON, APPELLEE.

Appeal dismissed because all the parties to the decree in the circuit court
had not joined m the appeal to this court.

APPEAL from the circuit court .of the United States for the
district of Kentucky.
In the circuit-court of Kentucky, Andrew Kincannon, the
appellee, filed a bill on the 8th of December 1815, claiming
a tract of land by virtue of a prior .entry to that under which
the persons named in the bill asserted a title to, and held possession of the land, and praying the court to compel the defendants to release all claim to the same, and that he might be
quieted in the enjoyment and possession thereof.
The bill was filed against Thomas Deye Owmgs, James M.
Blakey, Ralph Phillips, John Head, Benjamin Head, Milton
Stapp, Charles Buck, and nineteen others, as defendants, and
was afterwards dismissed as to some, and abated as to others
of the persons so named. During the pendency of the proceedings Ralph Phillips and John Head died, the former leaving
LewisW. R. Phillips his heir, and theother leaving NancyHead,
and his widow, Sally Head, his only child, who after the decease of their respective parents became defendants i the cause.
At November term, 1825, the circuit court:made a decree in
favour of the complainant, by which it was ordered, that the
complainant do recover against the defendants Thomas Deye
Owmgs, James M. Blakey, Ralph Phillips, Milton Stapp, John
L. Head, and'Charles BTack, and that said defendants do, on
or before the first day of March next, by deed, with warranty
against themselves and their heirs, convey and release unto
the complainant all their right, title, and interest, in and to the
land represented on and designated on the connected plat, returned under an interlocutory decree formerly made.
On the 15th of May 1830, an order was made granting an
appeal, and the following bond was executed, a copy of which
was certified in the record.

SUPREME COURT.
[Owings and others v. Andrew Kincannon.]

Know all men by these presents, that we, Lewis W R. Philare held and
lips, Sally Head, Nancy Head, and
sum
of five hunin
the
Kincannon
firmly bound unto Andrew
to
be made,
truly
well
and
dred dollars, to which payment
and
administrators,
executors,
our
heirs,
we bind ourselves,
firmly by these presents,. and sealed with our seals, and dated
this 15th day of May 1830.
The condition of the-above obligation is such, that whereas
the above bound Lewis W R. Phillips, Sally Head, and' Nancy
Head, have prayed for and obtained an appeal from the seventh circuit court of the United States m and for the Kentucky
district, to the supreme court of the United States, in a certain
suit in chancery wherein the said Andrew Kincannon was complainant, and Thomas D. Owmgs, Ralph Phillips, the ances'tor 6f said L. W R. Phillips, and John L. Head, the husband
of said Sally Head, And ancestor of said Nancy Head, were
defendants.
Now, if the said Lewis W R. Phillips, Sally Head, and
Nancy Head, shall well and truly prosecute the said appeal
with effect, or on failure thereof pay to the said Andrew Kincannen all costs that he incur in the defence thereof, and may
be legally awarded against them, -the said L. W R. Phillips,
Nancy and Sally Head, then the' above 6bligation to be void,
otherwise to remain in full force and virtue.
THOMAs TRIPLETT, [snAr..]
On the 18th May 1830,.the following citation was issued
to Andrew Kincannon. Whereas an appeal has been prayed.
by Lewis W R. Phillips, sole heir of-Ralph Phillips, deceased,
and Sally Head, widow, and Nancy Head, the only child, of
John L. Head? deceased, and is hereby granted to the supreme
,court of the United States, to reverse a decree of tbk seventh
circuit court of the United States in and for the Kentucky district, at the November term, one thousand eight hundred and
twenty-five, wherein the said Andrew Kincannon is complainant, and Thomas D. Owings, &c., with ancestors of said L.
W R. Phillips and S. and N. Head were defendants.
These therefore are to cite and command you that you be
and appear in the supreme court of the UAited States at the
city of Washington, on the second Monday in January next,

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Owmgs and others v. Andrew KincannoL]

and then and there to be heard, if any thing you have to say
upon the said appeal.
Witness my hand, as an associate justice of the supreme
court of the United States, and presiding judge of the seventh
circuit court of the United States of America in and for the
Kentucky district, this 18th day of May 1830.
JOHN M'LEAN,

Justice Supreme Court United States.
Mr 'Bibb, for the appellee, moved to dismiss the appeal, on.the
ground that the .decree. of the circuit court of Kentucky was
against Thomas Deye Owings, James M. Blak6y, Milton
Stapp, and Charles Buck, as well as against the appellants,
yet the appeal had not been prosecuted by any others than those
named in the citation, Lewis.W R. Phillips, Sally Head and
Nancy Head.
By the record it appears that the appeal was allowed generally, but the bond is given by'L. W R. Phillips, Sally Head
and Nancy Head only. It is therefore the proceeding of those
parties only.
No exception is taken to the execution of the bond, as by the
decisions of the state courts of Kentucky, and also of the circuit
court, a bond requiring surety, in legal proceedings, need not
be executed by any but the surety of the parties for whom he
has consented to become bound.
:Mr Loughborough opposed the motion. He contended that
as the appeal had been allowed to all the parties, the bond
and- citation operated generally, and all the defendants were
before the court as' appellants. But if this was to be considered as the separate appeal of some of the defendant6, it was
legal. Cited Coxe v. The United States, 6 Peters,.172. The
,appearance of the defendant in error,. which was entered at
January term .1831, and other proceedings on his part, by motion in the case, deprived him of a right to move to dismiss .the
appeal at this term cited.
Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
coUrt.
VOL. VII.-3 A

SUPREME COURT.
[Owings and others v. Andrew kincannon.]

This is um appeal from a decree pronounced m the court of
the United States for the district of Kentucky, by which Thomas Deye Owings,. James W Blakey, Ralph Phillips, Milton
Stapp, John L. Head and Charles Buck were directed to convey and release to the complainant all their right, title and
interest m a tract of land mentioned in the decree. An appeal
was allowed, and a bond executed by Lewis W R. Phillips,
Sally Head and Nancy Head, the condition of which recites
"that, whereas Lewis W R. Phillips, Sally Head and Nancy
Head have prayed for and have obtained an appeal from the
seventh circuit court of the United States in and for the Kentucky distnct to the supreme court of the United States, in a
certain suit in chancery wherein said Andrew Kincannon was
complainant and Thomas D. Owings, Ralph Phillips, the
ancestor of the said L. W R. Phillips, and John L. Head, the
husband of said Sally Head and ancestor of Nancy Head, were
defendants.
"Now, if the saidlewis W R. Phillips shall well and truly
prosecute," &c.
The particulai statement in the bond is considered by the
court as explaining the general entry granting the appeal, so
as to show that from a joint decree against six defendants,
only two, represented by their heirs, have appealed.
A motion is now made to dismiss this appeal, because the
decree being joint, all the parties ought to join in the appeal.
Upon principle it would seem reasonable, that the whole
cause ought to be brought before the court, and that all the
parties who are united in-interest ought to unite in the appeal.
We have however found no precedent, in chancery proceedings,
for our government in this case. But in the case of Williams
v. The Bank of the United States, 11 Wheat. 114, which
was a writ of error, sued out by one defendant to a joint judgn~ent against three, the writ was dismissed, the court being of
opinon that it had issued irregularlyj and that all the defendants ought to have joined in it.
By the judicial act of 1789, decrees in chancery pronounced
in e circuit court could be brought before this court only by
writ of error. The appeal was given by the act of 1803.
That act declares "that such appeals shall b subject to the

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Owings and others v. Andrew Kincannon.]

same rules, regulations and restrictions as are prescribed by law
in cases of writs of error."
Previous to the passage of this act, the oecree under consideration could have been brought into this court only by writ
of error, in which writ all the defendants must have joined.
The language of the act which gives the appeal, appears to us
to require that it should be prosecuted by the same parties
who would have been necessary in a writ of error. We think
also that the same principle would be applicable, from the
general usage of chancery, to make one final decree binding
on all the parties united in interest.
The appeal must be dismissed, having -been brought up
irregularly.
On consideration of. the motion made in this cause on a
prior day of the present term of this court, to wit, on Thursday
the 17th-day of January, by Mr Bibb, of counsel for the appellee, to dismiss this appeal, on the ground that only two of the
parties, represented by their heirs, have joined in this appeal,
the decree of the said circuit court being a joint decree against
six persons, and of the arguments of counsel thereupon had:
It is considered by the coirt that this appeal be dismissed, because only a part of those against whom the decree was made
have joined in the appeal. Whereupon, it is ordered, adjudged
and decreed by this court that this appeal be, and the same is
hereby dismissed, it having been brought up irregularly. "ad
it is further ordered, adjudged and decreed by this court that
said appeal be, and the same is hereby dismissed with costs.

