JANUARY TERM 1833.

ABNER

L.

DUNCAN'S HEIRS AND REPRESERNTATIVES, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR V. THE UNITED STATES.

Action on a bond executed by Wiliam Carson, as paymaster, and signed by
A. L. Duncan and John Carson as his sureties, conditioned that William
Carson, paymaster for the United States, should perform the duties of
that office within the district of Orleans. The breach alleged was that
W C. had received large sums of money in hIs official capacity, in his
life time, wlhch he had refused to pay into the treasury of the United
States.
The bond was drawn m the names of Abner L. Duncan, John Carson and
Thomas Duncan as sureties for William Carson, but was not executed by
Thomas Duncan. There were no witnesses to the bond, but it was
acknowledged by all the parties to it before a notary public. Thede&
fendants, the heis and representatives of A. L. Duncan, in answer to
a petition to compel the payment of the bond, sav that it was stipulated
and understood, when the bond was executed, that one Thomas Dunc;n
should sign it, which was never done, and the bond was never completed;
and therefore A. L. Duncfn was never bound by it. they also say, that,
as the representatives of A. L. Duncan, they are-not liable for the alleged
defalcation of William Carson, because he acted as paymaster out of the
limits of the district of Louisiana; and the deficiencies, if any, occurred
without the limits ofthe-said district.
Before the jtry were sworn the defendants offered a statement to the court
for the purpose of obtaining a special verdict on the facts, according to
the provisions of the act of the legislature of Louisiana of 1818. The
court would not suffer the 'same to be given to the jury for a special
finding, because it IIwas contrary to the practice of the court to compel
a jury to find a special verdict."
The judge charged the jury that the bond sued. upon was not to ue governed by the laws of Louisiana rn.force when the bond was signed at
New Orleans, but that this and all similar bonds must be considered as
havi'g been executed at the seat of the government of the United States,
and to be governed by the principles of the common law that although
the copy of the bond sued on, which was certified from the treasury
department, exhibited a scrawf'instead of a seat, yet they had a right to
presume that the original bond had been executed according to law, and
that in the absence of all proof as to the limits of the district of New
Orleans, the jury was bound to presume that the defalcation occurred
within the district; and if the paymaster adted beyond the limits of the
district, it was incumbent on the defendants to prove the fact. held, that
there was no error in these decisions of the district court of Louismna.
This is an, official-bond, and was given in pursuance of a law of the United
States. By.this law, the coiditions of the bond were fixed, and also the

SUPREME COURT.
[Duncan v. United States.]
manner in which its obligations should be enforced. It was delivered to
the treasury department at Washington, and to the treasury, did the paymaster and his sureties become bound to pay any moneys in his hands.
These powers exercised by the federal government cannot be questioned.
It has the power of prescribing under its own laws, what kind of security
shall be given by its agents for a'taithful discharge of their public duties.
And in such cases the local law cannot affect the contract, as it is made
with the government, and, in contemplation of law, at the place where
its principal 1owcrs are exercised.
It is not essential that any court, in establishing or changing its practice,
should do so by the adoption of written rules. Its practice may be
established by a uniform mode of proceeding for a serlas of years, and
this forms the law of the court. In this case it appears that the LouisLana law, which regulated the practfce of the district court of Louisiana,
has not only been, repealed, but the record shows that in the year 1830,
when the decision was given in this case, there was no such practice
of the court, as was adopted by the act of congress of 26 May 1824.
The court refused the statement of facts to go to the jury for a special
finding, because thev say "such was contrary to the.practice of the
court."
By the court. On a question of 'practice, it would seem that the decision
of the d'strict court as to what the practice is should be conclusive.
The pra .tice of the court cannot be better known and established than
by its own solemn adjudidations on the subject.

IN error from the district court of the United States for the
eastern district of Louisiana.
On the 22d November 1829, the district httorney of the
United Statbs filed, on behalf of the United States, a petition
stating that on the 4th of March 1807, William Carson, Abner
L. Duncan and John Carson made and executed their bond to
the United States in the sum of ten thousand dollars, by which
they bound themselves and each of them, and either of their
heirs, executors and administrators, that William Carson, paymaster. of the United States, should-well and truly perTorm and
discharge, according to law, the duties of the office of paymaster of the United States, within the district of New Orleans.
The petition alleged a breach of this bond by William Carson, paymaster, in having received in his life time large sums
of money in that capacity, which he refused to pay into the
treasury of the United States. And also that Abner L. Duncan has deceased, leaving property, and that, by reason of the
facts above stated, his heirs, to wit, John N. Duncan, Frances

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Duncan v. United States.]

Duncan, wife of Frederic Conrad, Hannah Duncan, Eliza
Duncan, and Abner Duncan, all children of the said Abner
L. Duncan, these three last named being minors, and also Frances S. Duncan, wife of the said Abner L. Duncan, who has
accepted the community of her deceased husband, have be,
come liable to pay, and are indebted to the United States,
jointly and severally, in the sum of ten thousand dollars.
The petition proceeds to pray that Johif N. Duncan and Frances S. Duncan, and the aforesaid minors Hannah, Eliza, and
Abner Duncan, their tutors and curators, be cited to answer the
petition, and that, after due proceedings had, they may have
judgment against them, jointly and severally, for the sum of
ten thousand dollars, with interest and, costs.
To this petition was annexed a copy of the bond, as follows
"1Know all men by these presents, that we, William Carson,
paymaster for the United States of America, within the district of New Orleans, Abner L. Duncan, John Carson, and
Thomas Duncan, Esquires, are held and firmly bound unto the
said United States in the penal sum of ten thousand dollars,
money of the United States, to be paid to the said United States
of America, for whih payment well and truly to be made we
bind ourselves, and each of us,. by himself, our and either of
our heirs, executors, and admimstrators, firmly by these presents. Sealed with our seals, and dated this fourth day of
March Oac thousand eight hundred and seven.
"The condition 6f this obligation is such, that if the above
bounden William Carson, paymaster for the United States of
America, do and shall well and truly, according to law, perform and discharge the duties of said office of paymaster for
the United States of America within the district of Orleans,
then the above obligation to be null and void, otherwise to remain in full force and virtue.
WILLIAM CARSON,

[sCRAWL].

A. -L. DuNeCAN, [SCRAWL].
JOHN CARSON,

[SCR:AWL]."

The bond was acknowledged by William Carson anl Abner L. Duncan, before a notary public in New Orleans, on
the 4th day of March 1807, and byJolin Carson, before a notary,

SUPREME COURT.
[Duncan v. United States.]

public at Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, on the 21st day of May
1807. The copy of the bond was certified according to the
provisions of the act of congress of 3d of March 1817, entitled
"an act providing for the prompt settlement of accounts."
To the petitiodi of the United States, the heirs and representatives of Abner L. Duncan, filed an answer on the 14th day of
December 1829, m wlnch all the allegations m the petition
were denied, except- that Abner L. Duncan did sign the bond
therein referred to, but they aver that said Duncan was not,
in Ins life time, nor are therespondents, bound m law to pay
the amount thereof, nor any part thereof.
They further aver, that by and in said bond, it was stipulated and understood (when the same was signed by the said
Abner L. Duncan, as security for said Carson), that one
Thomas Duncan should also sign the same, as his co-surety,
but that the said Thomas Duncan never did sign the same,
and said. bond never was completed, nor was said Abner L.
Duncan ever bound thereby.
Afterwards, on the 26th of May 1830, an amended answer
was filed, stating that the respondents are not liable for the alleged defalcation in the accounts of said Carson, because said
Carson acted as paymaster out of the limits of the district of
Louisiana, and the said deficiencies, if any exist, occurred
without the limits of said district.
The cause came on for trial upon these pleadings on .the
29th day of. May 1830; and before the jury were sworn, the
counsel for the defendants offered to the court, astatement.of the
facts, for the purpose of obtaining a special verdict on the facts,
under the tenth section of the act of the legislature o the
state .of-Louisiana of 1817, page 32. This being opposed by
the district attorney, the court refused to admit the same, or
to suffer the same to be given to the jury for a special linding,
"because such was contrary to the practice of this court, and
because a jury ought not to be compelled to find a special verdict." Whereupon, the counsel for the defendants excepted to
the opinion and decision of the court therein, before the jury
were sworn.
On the trial of the cause, a transcript from the treasury
department of the accounts of William Carson as paymaster,

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Duncanv. United States.]

was giv :n m evidence, showing a balance due to the United
States, of six thousand one hundred and twenty-sik dollars
eleven cents, for which sum a verdict was given, and a judg.
ment thereon rendered in favour of the United States.
On the -trial the defendants took the following bill of exceptions.
"Be it remembered, that, on the trial of this cause, the judge
charged the jury that the bond sued on was not to be governed
by the laws of Louisiana, or those in force in the territory of
Orleans at the time said bond was signed by Abner L. Duncan, who signed-it in New Orleans in the then said territory,
but that this, and all similar bonds, must be considered as
shaving been executed at the seat of government of the Un,ted States, and to be governed by the principles of a common
law, to wit, the common law of England.
"The judge further charged the jury that, although the copy
of the bond sued on exhibited a scrawl instead of a seal, yet
they had a right to presume that the original bond had been
executed according to law, to wit, that it was sealed in the
mainner prescribed by the common law, that the scrawl m the
copy represented the place of' the seal as plainly as could be
done without a fac simile, and that if the fact was otherwise,
it was in the power of the defendants to have shown it:
"The judge also.charged the jury that they were bound to
presume, in the absence of all proof as to the limits of the
district of Orleans, that the deficiency in the accounts of Carson (hereuntp annexed), the pnncipal obligor on said bond,
occurred on account of moneys received and disbursed as paymaster of the district of Orleans, although it was proved that
said Carson had acted as paymaster, and disbursed moneys, as
such, at fort Stoddart, and at the town of Washington, both
in the then territory of Mississippi, and finally, that if said
Carson disbursed money in any other distnct than that of Orleans, it was incumbent on the defendants%to prove- that fact.
The judge further charged that the possession of the bond by
the treasury department, was prima. facie. evidence of delivery.
To all of which charges, the counsel foit the defendants then
and theiae excepted, before the jury retired" to consider theirverdict."

SUPREME COURT.
[Duncan v; The United States.3

The defendants prosecuted a writ of error to this court and
the record presented the bills of exceptions to the ruling of the
district court, as to the claim to have a special verdict, and
the matters which the defendants' counsel offered for the jury
to find as such, and also the bill of exceptions sealed by the
court on the trial*of the cause.
The case came on for argument at the January term of this
court in 1832, and was held under advisement. It was m
part reargued at this term.
Mr C. J. Ingersoll, for the plaintiffs in error, contended:
1. It was an error if the courL below to reject the practice
of the state and substitute the common law of England. The
practice of the state was established by the act of 1817, adopted
and made the law of the court of the United States by the act
of congress of the 26th of May 1824. 3 Laws U. S. by Story,
1791. The case of Parsons v. Bedford, 3 Peters, 445, settles
the principle. The cases of Parsons v. Armor, 3 Peters, 413,
and Parsons v. Bedford, before cited, settle every thing but the
mere application of their principles to any given circumstance,
atie it is clear that the district court of Louisiana has established no practice of its own, which, if so, must appear judicially and declaratorily. It is true that the act of Louisiana of
1817 was repealed byr the act of 1825, establishing a different
code of practice. Which practice then is to prevail! that of
1817 or that of 1825
Certainly the former, because that was
sanctioned by the act of congress of 1824, and when state
practice is once adbpted by a federal court, it never fluctuates
according to the practice or legislation of the state, but remains
fixed, till changed by the rule of the federal court, or by act of
congress. It is the same case in principle as that of .the old
states under the judiciary act of 1789 they took the state
practice, as existing then, and 'have never followed any state
change since. Wayman v. Southard, 10 Wheat. 1. The
power of regulating process m the federal courts is exclusively
federal. it abides in congress, until by them delegated, as far
as necessary, to the federal courts. The second section of the
act of congress of the 8th of May 1792, 1 Story's Laws U. S.
257, enacts that the-modes of proceeding shall be the same as

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Duncan v. The United States.1

were hen used pursuant to the act of1789. Infinite confusion
would ensue, and the supreme power would be subverted, if
the states were allowed to alter the practice of the federal'
courts. The case of Fullerton v. The Bank of the United
States, 1 Peters, 604, shows how the federal court for Ohio,
admitted into the union in 1802, adopted' the state practice.
So the federal court of Louisiana, might adopt the state practice; but not having done so expressly, or by affunative regulation, the practice first used, that of 1817, became its permanent practice, and could not- be affected by the state code of
practice of 1825. For this is not a question of right, falling
under the decision of Cox v. The United States, 6 Peters, 203,
but a question of remedy. The common law does not apply,
but the law of Louisiana, which is the place of suit, and as
was ruled by Judge Washington, state laws qualify rights, but
have no influence on remedies in the federal courts. Campbell
v. Claudius, 1 Wash. C. C. Rep. 485. The only question is,
which of the remedies is the proper one and it is submitted
that the state practice, first sanctioned by act of congress,
and applied in the federal court, remains the practice of that
court till changed by its own regulation, or act of congress.
2. Duncan's heirs are not liable, because it is not his bond,
as they pleaded. The body of the bond proves that Thomas
Duncan was, by the contract, to share its responsibility with
Abner Duncan, and without the signature of Thomas it never
was completed or ddlivered, but remains an escrow. It may
be good against Carson, but not against Duncan. The very..
point has been adjudged.m the supreme court of Louisiana, in.
the case of Wells v. Dill, I Martin's Rep. N. S. 592. Pothier,
as there cited, shows tlus to be a -principle of law. It is a
question of contract, how far the surety's lihbility extends.
Craythorne v. Swinburn, 14 Ves. 166. The case of Leaf v.
Gibbs, 4 Car. & Pay. 46G, 19 English Common Law Reports,
475, is a case at common law, precisely in point. And the case
of Pawling Nr.The United States, 4 Cranch, 219, is-an analogous adjudication, which riiles the principle, if not the very
point. The bond is not joint and several, but a joint obligation.. "we bind ourselves and each .of us by these presents:"
and the principle of joint liability is among the rudiments of the
VOL. VII.-3 F

SUPREME COURT.
[Duntcan v. The United States.]

common law. from the .very commencement of the contract to
execution upon it by final process. Judgment against three,
will not bear execution against any one of them. Clerk v,
Clement, Roll. Ab. 888, 6 Term Rep. 525. Judgment against
two defendants will not even bear ca. sa. against one, and elegit
against another. Blunifield v. Roswitb, Cooke's Eliz. 573, 5
Co. 86 Whitaker v, Hankinson, Cro. Car. 73, Barton v.
Pettit, 7 Cranch, 288, 2,Cond. Rep. 494.
3. Duncan's. heirs are not answerable, .because he became
surety, at all events, for no more than the district of O'leans;
and Carson's delinquency, if any, occurred beyond that district.
'the bond is; explicitly confined in terms to the district of Orleans. Carson's appointment as paymaster was regulated by
the act of congress of the 14th of March 1802, by the third
section of which, each paymaster is allotted to a localized district, and by the sixteenth section the paymaster-general, who
is to. appoint the VAymasters,. and reqtire them to give bond
with surety, is to appropriate each one to a defined district.
3 Story's Laws U. S. 451. It is well settled that suretyship
for one place, does not cover delinquencies in another. Miller
v. Stewart, f9 Wheat. 630; United States v. Kirkpatrick, 9
Wheat. 720. Now the account in proof is unlimited, it is against
Carson as paymaster, without designating any district. The
only credit is for a sum recovered of Carson's administrator in
Mississippi. The charge is, that although it was proved.that
Carson disbursed as paymaster in Mississippi. yet in the absence of all proof as to the limits of the district of Orleans, the
jury must presume that the deficiency occurred in ihat district,
which takes for granted that Carson did disburse as paymaster
in Mit.issippi. Thui all districts are confounded, without regard to the act of congress, or the bond in this case, and the
surety is made to answer for every district in the union.
Mr Taney, attorney-general, admitted,
That by the act of eonvrc~s of 1824, the courts of -the United States in the district of Lonisiana, were authorize4,to modify the practice of.those courts, and to arrange the same differently from the practice. in the state mourts, if the same should be
deemed proper.

In 1624,_ the law of Louisiana of 1817, au-

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Duncan v. The United States.]

thorizing a special finding by a jury, was in force. but in 1825,
"The Code of Practice" of the courts of .Louisiana was adopted and promulgated, by which .the right of a party to insist
on a special verdict was taken away, and the proceedings in
jury trials were left to the rules of the common law
It was-in the exercise of the powers granted to the judges
of the courts of the United States by the act of 1824, that the
practice of adopting the rules of the common law m jury
trials was adopted by the court, and that the practice of 4
special finding did not prevail, is sufficiently shown by the
court saying that the mode of proceeding demanded "was
contrary to the practice in the district court of the United
States." The declaration of the judge of the district court is
evidence of the rle; as it is not required that the rule'should
have been in writing.
To maintain the exception taken by the counsel for the
plaintiffs in error, it should be shown that by the act of congress it was the duty of the courts of the United States to
adopt the practice of the state courts, as it stood at the passage
of that law. If they had the power to reject any part of it,
or if they had the power to change the practice, asit might
be changed in the state courts, the exception fails. BoLh these
powers must be denied to have existed in the court, in order to
render the refusal of the district judge error.
As the act of 1824 is in substance and effect the same with
the act of May 8tl, 1792, the interpretation given of the latteL
act will assist in the construction.of the former law.
It has been decided that under the act of 1792, the powers
of the courts of the United States could be exercised to change
the modes of proceeding and- establish them according to the
rules these courts might adopt. Bank U. S. v. Halstead 10
Wheat. 51, 60, 61.
Thb language of the act of 1824, is different from that of
1792, inasimuch as in reference to the adoption of the state
practice, the words "now used," are oimtted , thus showing
that it was the intention of the legiislature to authorize a change
of the practice in the courts of the United States, as changes
might be made in the state couts, should the judges of these
courts approve of the same. The new code of practice was

SUPREME COURT
(Duncat v. The United States.]
About to be adopted; and as it was regarded as an improvement, the courts of the United States were left at liberty to
adopt'it with such modifications as they thought proper. It
was in the power of the district court to adopt-the practice established by that code, and it has adopted it. Cited 3 Peters,
443, 1 Cond. Rep. 141.
If the act of 1824 required that the courts of the United
States should-adopt the practice of the courts of Louisiana as
then established, the law would have been unconstitutional.
The law of Lotusiana of 1817, as it took away the right of
-trial by jury, was void. The right of the jury to give a general
verdict is an essential and iot
important ingredient in the
trial by jury, it is as much a part of the law of the trial by
jury, as their number and unanimity, and a court is bound. to
receive a general verdict if the jury offer to find generally.
The right to trial by jury, as' the. same is used and exercised
at common law, is secured to every citizen of the'United States
by .the constitution, both in civil and criminal cases. Amendments to the Constitution, art. 5, 6,
Dallas, 309.
But if congress had the power to legislate on this subject,
and:it-is.riot denied that such right existed, they have, by the
-act of-1789, direct-d the mode of trial by jury in. the district
arid circuit court-, ani when by that act'that mode of trial is
directed; the powers and principles which belong to it at common law are given.
/ t wab to prevent any.discrepancy between the constitution
and laws of the United. States, and the law and practice -of
Louisiana, that the power to -modifythis practice was given to
the court, and that power has been employed. 3 Peters, 425,
445.
As to the position, ass.umed by the counsel-for the plaintiffs
in error, that the law of Louisiana is different from the
common law as to the liabilities of sureties in a bond and the
remedies against them, the decision, of this court in the case of
Cox and Dick v The United States,.6 Peters, 171, has settled
the law~of the contract to be against the plaintiffs. The contract
entered into by those who executed this bond, is governed by
the law of. the district of. Columbia, in which, at the treasury
department, the paymaster was bound to account.

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Duncan v. The United States.].

In reference to the objection taken to the copy of the bond
having a scrawl in place of a seal, it was argued that had the
original instrument been executed in that form, it would have
been sufficient. 1 Stark. Ev. 333, note 1. But this inquiry
is rendered ummportant, as the certificate from the treasury
department fully authenticates the copy.
There is no evidence that William Carson was the paymnaster of any other district than the district of Orleans, nor
what were the limits of that district. The military pay districts were -notregulated by any particular territorial divisions,
but were assigned by the president. Act of congress of March

16,.1802.
The only appointment held by William Carson, was that,
mentioned in. the bontdi and under that appointment the money
was advanced to. him, and if his payments were, rightfully
made they were made within his district, if out of it arid
made wrongfully, Ing sureties are answerable for the mis-appro
priation. If the principal in the bond had any"other appoint;
ment, it was the duty of the defendants in the-court below to
have shown the same.
The possession of the bond by the proper officers of the
government of the United States is sufficient, m the absence of
contrary proof of the delivery of the bond: Had it been held
as an escrow, until Thomas Duncan had -executed it, this
should have been made out by evidence. Bank U. S. v. Dandridge, 12 Wheat. 64, Union Bank v. Ridgely, 1 Har. and

-Gill, 480.
Mr Justice M'LEAN delivered the opinion of-the Court.
This writ of 'error ia prosecuted to reverse a judgment of-the
district court, which exercises circuit-court powers,.m the state
of Loisiana.
Tn.the year 1829 an action was commenced by the U pited
States against the plaintiffs in error, on a bond given by William Carson, as paymaster, and signed by A. L. Duncan and
.TetmCarson as his sureties. The bond bears date the 4th day
of Maron 1807,. and contains a condition "that, if the above
bounden William Carson, paymaster for the United States of
.America, do and shall well and truly, according to law, perform

SUPREME COURT.
(Duncan v. The United States.)

and discharge the duties.of said office of paymaster, &c. within
the district of Orleans, then the obligation to be-void," '&c.
The breach alleged in the petition was, that William Carson, paymaster, &c., "has not well aid truly, according to
law, discharged and, performed the duties of said office for the
district of Orleans; but that, on the contrary, he did, in his
life time, receive large fums of money in his capacity aforesaid,
which, although- frequently requesqed, he refused to pay into
the treasury of the United States."
Tge defendants in their answer say, that "by, and in said.
bond, it was stipulated and understood, when the same was
signed by Auner L. Duncan, as security for said Carson, that
one Thomas Duncan should also sign the same, as his co-surety. but that the said Thomas Duncan never did sign the same,
and said bond never was completed, nor was said A. L. Duncan ever bound thereby." They also aver that they are not
liable for the alleged defalcation in the accounts of said Carson,
because he acted as paymaster out of the limits of the district
of Louisiana, and the said deficiencies, if any exist, occurred
without the limits'of said district.
Before the jury were -svorn. the defendants offered a statement to the court, for the purpose of obtaining a special verdict
on the facts, in pursuance of the provisions of the tenth section
of a statute of Louisiana, passed in 1817. But the court overruled the statement, and would not suffer the same to be given
to the jury, for a special finding, because it was contrary to the
practice of the court to compel a jury to find a special verdict.
To this decision an exception was taken.
A transcript of the accounts of Carson, duly certified by the
treasury department, was then given m evidence to the jury;
and the judge charged the jury, that the uond sued on was
not to be governed by the laws of Louisiana, or those in force
in the territory of Orleans, at the time said bond was signed by A. L. Duncan, who signed it in New Orleans, in the
then said territory; but that -this, and all similar bonds, must
be considered as having been executed at the seat of government of the United States, and to be governed by the principles
of the common law. That although the copy of the bond sued
on 1xhibited a scrawl instead of a seal, yet they had a right to

JANUARY TERM 1883.
[Duncan v. The United States.]

presume that the original bond had been executed according
to law. That the jury-were bound to presume, in the absence
of all proof as to the limits of the district of Orleans, that the
defalcation of Carson occurred in the district of Orleans, although it was proved that he disbursed moneys, as paymaster,
at fort Stoddart and at Washington, in the territory of Mississippi; and that if the defendant Carson had acted as paymaster beyond the limits of the district of Orleans, it was incumbent on the defendants to prove the fact. And the judge also
charged the jury, that the possession of the bond by the treasurydepartment was prima facie evidence of delivery-to which
charge exceptions were taken.
The jury rendered a verdict against, the defendants, for six
thousand one hundred and twenty-six dollars, with interest, &c.
This judgment the plaintiffs in error pray may be reversed,
on the following grounds:
1. Because the surety, Abner L. Duncan, is-not bound, as
when he executed the bond; it'was agreed that it should also
be signed by Thomas-Duncan.
2.. Because William Carson was appointed paymaster for a
certain district, and the judgment covers defalcations, which
may have occurred out of such'district.
3. The rejection by the court of the statement of facts, on
which a special verdict was prayed.
4. Because the rejection of this statement precluded the defendants from proving that the bond was delivered as an escrow.
As to the first error assigned, it appears, on an inspection of
the bond, it was drawn in the names of Abner L. Duncan, John
Carson, and Thomas Duncan, as sureties for William Carson,
but that Thomas Dupcanrnever signed it. There are no witnesses to the bond, but, on the day of its date, it was acknowledged by William Carson and Abner L. Duncan, before a notary public at New Orleans, and on the 21st day of May following, John Carson acknowledged it before a notary public at
Hamsburgh,.in Pennsylvania.
To sustain this ground, reference is made to a decision of the
supreme court of Louisiana in the case of Wells v. Dill, reported in I Martin, 592. In their decision, the coart-,say, that,

SUPREME COURT.
[Duncan v. The United States.]
"the defendant is sued on the ground that he signed as
surety,
Charles
by
signed
an instrument, purporting to be a- bond,
Blanchard, for his faithful performance of the duties of curator,
to the vacant estate of one Jared Risdon, deceased. In opposition to this action, the defendant relies, principally, on the
want of. the signature of another person to the instrument,
whose name is mentioned in the body of it as cosurety. The
bond is drawn in the name of Charles R. Blanchard, as principal, and the defendant and Walter Turnbull as sureties. At
the bottom, the names of Blanchard and Dill are axed'; that
of Turnbull is wanting. We agree with the defendant, that;
under these circumstances, his signature to-the obligation does
not bind him. The. contract is incomplete, until all the parties contemplated to join in its execution affix their names to it,
and while in this state cannot be enforced against any one of
ihem. 'The law presumes that the party signing did so, apon
the condition that the other obligors named in the instrument
should sign it: and their failure tW comply with their agreement
.gives him a right to retract" Pothier is cited by the court to
sustain this principle.
'There can be no doubt, that under the civil law, the prmciple.is correctly stated by the court. It must be observed,
however, that the court say, the want of Turnbull's signature
was principally relied on to invalidate the bond; so that there
seems to have been no circumstances going to refute the presumption against its validity, ansing fr9m its fdce; .and -that
the omission of the signature, was not the only ground of ob"jbction to it.
It is a principle of the common law, too well settled to be
controverted, that where an instrument is delivered as an
escrow, or where -one surety has signed it on condition that it
shall.be.signed by another before its atelivery, no obligation is
incurred until the condition shall happen. And if it appeared
in the present case, that Abner L. Duncan signed, the bond, to
be delivered on condition that Thomas Duncan should execute
it, there can be no doubt the plea should have been sustained
in the court below. But the delivery of the bond, as well as
the signatures of the parties, is a question of fact for the jury;
and this court cannot determine the legal question arising on

JANUARY TERM 1833.
(Duncan v. 'he United States.]

such fact, unless it be stated. m a bill of excejtions. The acknowledgement of the bond by Abner L. Duncan, and afterwards by John Carson, unconditionally, and its delivery to the
government, would seem to rebut the inference drawn by the
plaintiffs against its validity, from the simple fact of its.not
having been signed by Thomas Duncan. There is, therefore,
nothing upon the face of the record-which would go to destroy
the validity of this bond.
A question was raised, and elaborately argued by the counsel for the plaintiffi, wnether thins bond, having been executed
at New Orleans, was not governed, not only as to the manner
of its execution, but also as to the extent of the obligations incurred under it, by the principles of the civil law. In the case
of Cox et al. v. The United States, decided at the last ten,
this question was settled.
This is an official bond, and was given in. pursuance df a
lar of the United States. By this law the conditions of the
bond were fixed, and also the manner m which its obligations
should be enforced. It was delivered to the treasury department at Washington, and to the treasury did the paymaster
and his sureties become bound to pay any moneys m his hands.
These powers, exercised by the federal government, cannot be
questioned. It has the power of prescribing, under its own
laws, what kind of security shall be given by its agents for a
faithful discharge of their public duties. And in such cases,
'the local law cannot affect the contract, as it is made with the
government, and m contemplation of law, at the place wherb
its principal powers are exercised.
As there was no evidence before the jury that any part of
the defalcation of the paymaster occurred without the limits of
the district m which, as appears by the bond, he was to act; the
court- below might well instruct the jury, that in the absence
of such proof, they were bound to presume that the deficiency
took place within- the district.
The rejection of the special Verdict by the court, is the
ground which seems most to be r1elied on for a reversal of this
judgment.
I.n 1817 the legislature of Louisiana enacted, that
1 m every
case to be tried by a jury, if one of the parties demands that
VOL. VII.G

SUPREME COURT.
[Duncan v. The United States.]

the facts set forth in the petition and answer should be submitted to the said jury, to have a special verdict thereon, both
parties shall proceed, before the jury are sworn, to make a
written statement of the facts so alleged and denied, the pertinency'6f winch statement shall be judged of by the counsel
and signed by the j idge, and the jury shall be sworn to decide
the question of fact or facts so alleged and denied," &c.
On the 26th of May 1824, congress passed an act entitled
"an act to regulate the practice in the courts of the United
States for the district of Louisiana, in which it is provided,
that the mode of proceeding in civil causes in the courts of the
United States, that now are, or hereafter may be established
m the state of Louisiana, shall be 'conformable to the laws
directing the mode of practice in the district courts of said
state: provided that the judge of any such court of the United
States may alter the times limited or allowed for different proceedings in the state courts, and make, by rule, such other
provisions as may be necessary to adapt the said laws of procedure to the organization of such court of the United States,
and to avoid any discrepancy, if any such exist, between such
state laws and the laws of the United States."
This section was -a virtual repeal, within the state of Lousiana, of all previous acts of congresg which regulated the prac,
tice of the courts of the United States, and which came within
its purview. It adopted the practice of the state courts of
Louisiana, subject to such alterations as the district judge of
the United States might deem necessary, to conform to the
organization of the district court, and avoid any discrepancy
with the laws of the union.
By a code of the Louisiana legislature, passed in 1829, called
the "Code of Procedure," the act of 1817 was repealed.
This repealing act was not before the court until the present
session, and a question- is made, under it, whether it does not,
by virtue of the act of congress of 1824, change the practice
of the district court. It is insisted, for the plaintiffs, that it
could not have been the intention of congress, by the act of
1824, to subject the practice of the district court in Louisiana
to-any changes which the legislature of that state might adopt,
in -eference to. the practice of the.state courts: and the con-

JANUARY TERM 1833.
•f Duncan v. The United States.]

struction winch has been given to the act of 1792, which regulates process in the courts of the United States, is relied on as
conclusive on the point. This act, by re-enacting the act of
1789, adopted the "modes of process" for the district and circuit courts, which were in use at the time of its passage in the
supreme courts of the respective states, but did not require, as
this court have decided, a conformity to the changes which
might be made in the process of those courts. Nor did the
act apply to those -states winch were subsequently admitted
into the union. But this defect was. removed by the act of
the 19th of May 1828, which placed all the courts of the
United States on the same footing in this respect, except such
as are held in the state of Louisiana,
It does not appear that the district court of Louisiana ) by the
adoption of any written rule, has altered the practice which
this court, in the case of Parsons v. Armor and Oakey, and
Parsons v. Bedford and others, reported in 3 Peters, considered
as having been adopted by the act of 1824. But, if the questions raised in these cases occurred after the act of 1817 was
repealed by the code of procedure, in 1829, the fact was not
known to the court. As the act of 1824 adopted the practice
of thne state courts before this court could sanction.a disregard
of such practice, it must appear, that, by an exercise of the
power of the district court, or by some other means, the practice had been altered.
It is not essential that any court in establishing or changing
its practice should do so by the adoption of written rules. Its
practice may be established by a-uniform mode of proceeding,
for a series of years, and this forms the law of the court.
In the case under consideration, it appears that the Louisiana
law, which regulated the practice of the district court of Louisiana, has not only been repealed, but the record shows, that
in the year 1830, when the decision objected to was made,
there was no such practice of the court as was adopted by the
act of 1824. The court refused to suffer the statement of facts
to go to the jury for a special finding, because they say, "such
was contrary to -the practice of the court."
On a question of practice, under the circumstances of this
case, it would seem, that'the decision of. the district court, as

SUPREME COURT.
[Duncan v. The United States.]

above made, should be conclusive. H6w can the practice of the
court be better known or established,, than by its own solemn
adjudication on the subject?
In regard to the last error assigned, it is not perceived how
the refusal of the speciil verdict precluded the defendants from
proving that the bond was delivered as an escrow. Such evidence was admissible under the plea or answer of the defendants; but it does not appear that any such was offered and rejected by the cQurt.
The judgment of the district court must be affirmed, with
costs.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the district court of the United States for the eastern
district of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel, on consideration whereof it is ordered and adjudged by this court, that the
judgment of the said district court m this cause be, and the
same is hereby affirmed, with costs and damages, at the rate of
six per centum per annum.

