THE DECISIONS
or

THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITEP STATES

AT

JANUARY TERM 1835.

THE UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR V. GEORGE MACDANIEL.
The V.nited States instituted a suit to recover a balance charged on the
books 9f the treasury department against the defendant, who was a clerk
in the navy department, upon a fixed annual salary, and acted as agent
for the payment of moneys due to the navy pensioners, the privateer pensioners, and for navy disbursements; for the payment of which, funds were
placed in his hands by the government. He had received an annual compensation for his services in the payment of th.e navypensioners, and for
fifteen years,.he had received, in preceding accounts, commissions of one
per cent on the moneys paid by him for navy disbursements. He claimed
these commissions at the treasury, and the claim had been there relected
by the accounting officers; and if allowed the same, he was not now indebted to the government. The United States, on the trial of the case in
-the circuit court, denied the right of the defendant to these commissions,
as they had not been allowed to him by any department of the government,
and asserted that the jury hail not power to-allow them on the trial.
The rejection of the claim to commissions by the treasury department,
formed no objection to the admission of it as evidence of offset before the

VOL. VII.-A

2

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Macdamel.]

jury. Had the claim never been presented to the department, it could
not have been admitted as evidence by the court. But, as it had been
made out in form and presented to the proper accounting officers, and
had been rejected, the circuit court did right m 6ubmitting it to the jury;
if the claim was considered as equitable.
Tins court will not sanction a limitation of the power of the circuit court, ir
cases of this kind, to the admission of evidence to the jury on a trial, only
to such items of offset against the cauns of the government as were
strictly legal, and which the accounting officer of the treasury should
"have allowed. It is admitted that a claun which requires legislative sanction, is not a proper offset either before the treasury officers or the court.
But there may be cases in which the- services having been rendered, a
compensation may be made within the discretion of the head of the department, and in such cases the court and jury will dq, not what an auditor was authorized to do, but what the head of the department should
have done, in sanctioning an equitable allowance.
The act of the 27th of March 1804, by which the president of the United
States was authorized to attach to the navy yard at Washington a captain
of the navy for the performance of certain duties, was correctly construed
by the head of the navy department until 1829, allowing to the defendant commissions on the sums paid by hun, as the special agent of the
navy department in making the disbursements.
By an act passed 10th July 1832, congress authorized the appointment of
a separate and permanent navy agent at Washington, and directed the
performance "of the duties "1not only for -the navy yard in the city of
Washington, but for the navy department, under -the direction of the
secretary of the navy in the payment of tuch accounts and claims as the
secretary may direct." These duties would not have been so specially
stated m this act, if they had been considered by congress as coming
within thejordinary duties of an agent for the navy yard at Washington,
under the act of 1804. But indepenZient of this consideration,it is emough
to -know that the duties in question were discharged by the defendant,
under the construction given to the law by the secretary of the navy.
It will not be contended that one secretary bf a department has not the
same power as another to give a construction to an act which relates to
the business of his department.
A practical knowledge of any one of the great departments of the government, must convince every person that the head of a department, in the
distribution of its duties and responsibilities, is often compelled to exercise bis discretion, -Heis limited in 'he exercise of his powers by the
law, but it does not follow that he must show a statutory provision, for
every thing he does. No government could bieadministered on such
principles. To attempt to regulate. by law the minute movements, of
every part of the complicated machinery of government, would evince a
most unpardonable ignorance of the subject. Whilst the great outlines
of its movements may be marked out, and limitations unposed on the exerqise of its powers, there are numberless things which must be done,

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[United States v. Macdaniel.]
that can neither be anticipated nor defined, and which are essential to
the proper action of the government. Hence, of necessity, usages have
been established m every part of the government, which nave become .
kind of common law, and regulate the rights and auties of those who
act within their respective limits; and no chanige of such usages can have
a retrospective effect, butmust be limited to the future.
Usage cannot alter the law, but it is evidence of the construction given to
it, and must be considered binding on past transactions.
That the duties in question were aischarged by the defendant during office
hours, can form no objection to the.compensation claimed. They were
required of hin by the head of the department; and being a subordinate,
he had no discretion to decline the labour and responsibility thus imposed.
But seeingthat his responsibility would be greatlymcreased. and perhaps
his labour, the secretary of the navy intreases his compensation, as in
justice he was bound to do.
This action of assumpsit has been brought by the government to recover from
the defendant the exact sum which in equityit is admitted he is entitled to
receive for valuable services rendered to the public in a subordinate
capacity, under the express sanction of the head of the navy department.
This-sum of money happensto be in he hands of the defendant; andthe
question is, whether he shall, under the circumstances, be required to
surrender it to the government and thenpetition congress on the subject.
A simple statement of the case would seem to render proper a very different course.
It would be a novel principleto refuse payment to the subordinates of a department; because their chief, under whose direction they had faithfully
seryed the public, had given an erroneous construction to the law.
The secretary of the navy, in authorizing the d6fendant to make the disbursements on which the claim for compensation is founded, did not
transcend those powers, which, under the circumstanczs of the case, he
might well exercise.

ERROR to the circuit court of the United States for the county
of Washington, m the district. of Columbia.
This action was brought on the 14th of August 1829 in the
circuit court by the United States, to recover from fh&-defendant the sum of nine hundred and eighty-eight dollars and
ninety-four cents; alleged to have been found due on a settlement of is accounts by the accounting officers of the treasury
department.
The case was tneA in May1831, and a verdict and judgment rendered for the defendant; to r6verse wnch"jndgment,
the United States prosecuted this writ of error.
i.
Before the verdict- was given,
the district attorney of the

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Macdaniel.]

United States filed the following bill of exceptions. After
stating that the United States gave in evidence an account
against the defendant, settled at the treasury, upon which
they claimed from the defendant a balance of nine hundred
and eighty-eight dollars and ninety-four cents, with interest
from August 3d, 1829, ihe bill of exceptions proceeds:
"The defendant then examined a witness to prove that the
said defendant was a clerk in the navy department, at an
annual salary of fourteen hundred dollars, and while he was
so acting, he was engaged and acted as the agent for the payment of the money due to the navy pensioners, the privateer
pensioners, and acted also as a special' agent for the navy disbursements; and the moneys which were applied to the use. of
those objects were placed in his hands by the government, to
be disbursed by him. That he was allowed for his services in
the payment of pensions, the annual sum of two hundred and
fifty dollars. But he has no knowledge that any annual sum
was ever allowed him for his services as a special agent for the
navy disbursements. The witness stated that he was also a
clerk in the navy department, and was in the habit of stoting
the defendant's accounts as special agent, and he knows that
a commission of one per cent was always allowed him, to his
knowledge, for ten or fifteen years past, until the settlement of
the present account, upon his disbursements as special agent
for the navy disbursements.
"The witness further stated that the services of this special
agent, in these disbursements, were similar to .those performed
by other navy agents, such as the navy agent of Boston, &c.
That they amounted, during the period that he acted as agent
as aforesaid, to from fifty to one hundred thousand dollars a
year; that the. defendant gave no bond or security, to his
knowledge, for the performance of these duties.
"The defendant then gave in evidence to the jury the certificate of B. W Crowninshield, then secretary of the navy, of
the 3d May 1817, and his account against the United States,
allowed by Smith Thompson, then secretary of the navy.
".Navy Department, .VIay 3, 1817.
"George Macdaniel, as agent of the navy pension fund, upon

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[United States T. Macdaniel.]

all expenditures by hun heretofore made, is entitled to thq
same commissions as have been allowed to other agents.
"B. W CROWNINSHIELD,
" Secretary of the .Navy.
"The navy pension fund to George Macdamel.
"For compensation as clerk of the navy pension, accounts,
from the 1st of July to the 31st of December 1818 inclusive, at
the rate of two hundred and fifty dollars per annum $125 00.
"Respectfully submitted,
- G. MACDANIEL.
"-Upon which account are the following indorsements: 'To
be allowed,
"'SMITR THOMPSON.
"' Received payment in account,
"I G. MACDANIIL.'
"The defendant set up against the claim made against him
by the United States, in ths case, a charge for a commassion
of one per cent, as special agent of the navy department, on
the expenditure of eleven thousand seven hundred and eightynine cdollars and twenty cents, amounting to one hundred and,
seventeen dollars and eighty-nine cints, and alike commission
of six hundred and ninety-two dollars and thirty cents, upon
the expenditure of sixty-nine thousand two hundred and
twenty-nine dollars and ninety-two cents, which commissions
had been disallowed by the navy department, and if now disallowed upon this trial, would leave the defendant indebted to
the United States in the sum of eight hundred and ten dollars
and nineteen cents, exclusive of the other items of cicun made
against him in this case.
"The witness who gave testimony for the defendant, proved
that the services performed by the defendant, as special. agent
as aforesaid, were performed durng office fiours, and occupied
from one-third to one-fourth of his time.
"The defendant further provedthat witness had hadoccasion
in the discharge of his duties in the fourth auditor's office, to examinerthe. accounts of defendant-and reported the accounts in
question, that the same commission was claimed by defendant
in these accounts, as had been charged and allowed in all his
previous ac6tounts, so far as witnesshas examined them, 'that

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v, Macdamel.]

the services had then been rendered, and the moneys disbursed,
when the exception was taken, that witness knows that the
accounts of public disbursem. nts, including all these, allowances of commissions upon disbursements, are annually submittect to congress, and inspected by a committee specially
appointed for that purpose; that sa:d committee attends at the
different offices, where the books are open for their inspection,
that the accounts embracing defendant's claims and allowancep
are regularly so submitted and inspected, and that no bbjectiorn, as .witness has ever heard, was taken by any committee,
or any individual, to such allowances, until defendant's final
account, after leaving office, was settled by the fourth auditor.
Defendant promptly paid over ali the moneys in his hands
when the amount was adjusted, reserving only the sums
claimed by hun, which appear m the accounts exhibited;-and
if they are allowed him, he has no public money in his hands.
"Defendant further offered in evidence a report from the
secretary of the treasury to congress, 1st March 1831. Doc.
126, H. R. 21st Cong. 2d Sess.
"cUpon the evidence so given to the jury, the counsel for the
United States prayed the court to instruct the jury, that if they
should believe the same to be true, that still the defendant had
no right, by law, to the commissions which he claims in this
case, and that, as the sums so charged as aforesaid, as commissions, had never been allowed to hun by any department
of the government, it was not competent for the jury to allow
them upon this trial.
" Which instruction the court refused to give, to which refusal the United States, by their attorney, excepted."
The accoun', exhibited on the trial by the district attorney of
the United States, by which the balanc- alleged to be due was
shown, was as follows
To balance due the United States per his account
$688 33
current, rendered on the 5th June 1829, . This sum disallowed, as per reconciling statement
228 14
of hib navy expenditure account herewith,
Commission on sixty-nme thousand two hundred
and twenty-nine dollars and mnety-two cents,
paid over to the treasurer of the United States,

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[United States. v. Macdamel.]

at one per cent, as debited in his accotut as late
special agent of the navy department, marked
A. Recorded on the 5th June'1829. Not allowed;
Compensation as agent for paying pensions from
the-lst of March to the 31st of May 1829. Not
allowed,
.
.
.
.
..
Erro ' m statement No. 141, (previous report) in
payments of Fall's pension,
credit of the treasurer
By this sum deposited to the
of the United States the 3d of August 1829,

692 30

62 50
6 00
$1,67"/ 29
688 33

Balance due the United States, by statement exammed by comptroller, 12th of August 1829,
988 96
THOMAS H. GILLISS, .&t.4th .aud.
The case was argued.by Mr Taney, attorney-general, for the
United States; and by Mr Coxe and Mr Jones, for the defendant.
For the United States it was contended, that the defendant
was not entitled to the commissions clamied by hun and mentioned in the bill of exceptions.
The attorney-general stated that the question presented in
the case was, whether the.defendant was entitled to commissions on payments made by hun for navy purposes.
The navy agents, although not established by any particular
law, have been recognised in various acts of congress. Their
duties are well knowft and ascertained. There are navy agents
at each navy yard, and there are navy agents who are not
permanent. There ii also an agent aL the navy department
to settle accounts not properly belonging to other navy agents.
Mr Macdamel was employed as the permanent navy agent at
Washington, and also as the special agent of the department.
A reference to the accounts in the record willshow that he
made payments for sloops of war, ship houses;, and for the marme corps. In making these payments, he performed duties
which properly belonged to permanent navy agents, and for

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Macdaniel.)

which they were entitled to be paid. The question then is,
whether he is entitled to commissions on the disbursements of
money, which properly belonged to the duties of other agents.
By the act of congress of 22d March 1804, 3 Laws U. S.
619, the commandant of the navy yard at Vashngton was
required to perform all the duties which have been performed
by the defendant in error.
This continued to be the law until July 10, 1832, when
congress passed an act repealing the provision assigning the
duties of navy agents to the commandant of the navy yard;
and authorizing the appointment of a permanent navy agent.
The act of 1809, 4 Laws U. S. 221, did not embrace the navy
yard at Washington.
Capt. Tingey was for many years the commandant of that
navy yard, but be did none of the duties assigned to hm by
the act of 1804. those duties were performed-by the defendant.
The case then was that of an officer of the United States, on
whom duties were specially imposed, omitting to comply with
them, and those duties executed by another person, who had
no authority under any law to perform them. All the allowances, 'therefore, made to him for commissions on disburse.
ments, as all his disbursements were such as ought t o have
been made by the commandant of the navy yard, were in violation of the act of 1804. These allowances have been made
-by a mistake of the law, and cannotbe set off. Can the head
of the navy department, by allowing payments not authorized
by law, or by one not entrusted and directed by law to make
them, authorize a compensation for them I This is denied.
The first question to be decided by the court is, what is the
true construction of the act of 1804? The second is, how far
the navy department can authorize the allowance of commissions, if they are not within the provisions of that act!
The language of the act of 1804 is such as to show clearly
that all the payments to be made at the navy department,
which were made by the defendant, were to be made by the
commandant of the navy yard. For this purpose that office
was created and the officer appointed.
When the law has fixed and established the duties of an
officer, another person, or another officer, cannot be charged

JANUARY TERM 1833.
(United States v. Macdaniel.]

with them. When duties are not defined; and when any one
has an appointment m a department, the officer at the head of
the department may enlarge the duties of the subordinate, and
they must be executed. If these are extra duties,,or new duties, it does not follow that any additional compensation is to
be made. The decision of the head of the department is conclusive on this subject.
But the case lIYefore the court is not that of enlarging duties,
or of calling for the performance of new ones, for which no
officer has beer appointed, it is that of giving duties to one,
when another is the propc. officer assigned by law to do them.
The right-to do this is denied. When the law is silent, the
department may sanction an allowance, but when the law
expressly provides for the service, no usages, no direction can
be set up to control the law. It is precisely the same case in
principle as if it had said the duties shall not be performed by&
any other.
It. is adimtted that if usage can sanction the allowance
claimed by the defendant, it is sustained; but it is denied that
usage is of any value when it is in direct violation of law.
4.s to the suggestion, that if the allowances which have been
made to the defendant in accounts finally settled at the treasury were made in violation of law, then the same should be
reimbursed to the United States, the answer is, that the accounts, having been adjusted, are finally disposed of. The
accounting officers of the treasury act judicially upon accounts
subitted to them, and no claim -can be unade for the repayment of allowances made by them in accounts which have
been finally disposed of by them.
Mr Coxe and Mr Jones, for the defendant in error.
They demed that by the act of 1804 the duties performed by
the defendant were assigned to the commandant of the navy
yard at Washington. He was by that act made the navy
agent at that navy yard, but he was not authorized to make, nor
did he ever make payments from .the navy department. The
words of the act are "agent of the department," not navy
agent. The duties of navy agent are -not defined, and must
necessarily rest in a great degree on the discretion of the secreVoL. VII.-B

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Macdaniel.]

tary. Mr Macdaniel has for twelve years been the agent for
these payments, and he has been so under the uniform construction of that law which is now contended for in his favour.
If he was not a clerk in the navy department, the duties performed by him, for which the commissions are claimed, did not
appertain to those of any other officer. The allowances made
to him have appeared in accounts which have passed under
the scrutiny of a committee of congress without exception,
and they have been sanctioned by every secretary of the navy
while he performed the duties for which they are claimed.
The account of the defendant does not show any expenditures at the navy yard of Washington. It shows miscellaneous
disbursements in various parts of the United States, and this
under the immediate directions of the secretary here, and done
as a special agent, out of the ordinary dutids of the local navy
agents.
The long usage should settle the construction of the law if
it was doubtful, and the objection to pay for services rendered
under this long secured construction, is founded on no prmciples of justice. It was for the head of the department to
ascertain what the law was; and.his construction of it should
prevail, most certainly in favour of services performed under
his direction's, and with the anticipation of a compensation for
them, derived from the uninterrupted usages of the department.
Mr Justice M'LEAN delivered the opinion of the Court.
A writ of error is prosecuted in this case, by the United
States, to recover a judgment of the circuit court for the district of Columbia.
The action was brought by the government to recover from
the defendant a balance charged against him, on the books of
the treasury department, amounting to the sum of nine hundred and eighty-eight dollars ninety-four cents.
In his defence, the defendant proved that he was a clerk m
the navy department, upon an annual salary of fourteen hundied dollars, and that he also acted as the agent for the payment of the moneys due to the navy pensioners, the privateer
pensioners, and for the navy disbursements. That the moneys

JANUARY'TERM 1833.
[United States v. Macdaniel.]

applied to the use of these objects, were placed m his hands
by the government. That he received the annual sum of twohundred and fifty dollars, for his services, in the payment of'
pensioners, but that for ten or fifteen years, he received one
per cent on moneys paid by him for navy disbursements.
That these disbursements amounted to from the sum of fifty,
to a hundred thousand dollars a year, and that no security was
required from him. He claimed the usual allowance of one
per cent, upon certain sums of money, disbursed by him,
which had been rejected by the treasury officers, but wnch,
if allowed, would show that he was not indebted to the
government.
Upon this state of facts, the attorney for the United States
prayed the court to instruct the jury, that if they should believe the same to be true, that still the defendant had no right
by law to the commissions which he claims, as the sum
charged had never been allowed to him by any department of
the government, and that it was not in the power of the jury
to allow the commissions on the trial. But the court refused
to give the instructions, and a bill of exceptions was taken.
Two questions are made by the bill of exceptions, for the
decision of this court.
1. Whether the defendant has a right to compensation for
the services charged.
2. Whether, if such right existed, it should have been
allowed on the trial as the proper department had decided
against it.
As to the second ground, it may be proper to remark, that
the. rejection of the claim of the defendant by the treasury
department, formed no objection to the admission of it by the
court, as evidence of offset to the jury. Had the clain never
been presented to the department for allowance, it would not
have been admitted as evidence by the court. But, as it had
been made out in form, and presented to the proper accounting
officer,,and was rejected, the circuit court 'did right in submitting it to the jury; if the claim was considered to be equitable.
On the part of the government, it is contended that, in a case
like the present, the court, in admitting evidence of offset
against the claim of -the government, is limited, not only to

SUPREME COURT
[United States v. ?facdamel.]
such items as were exhibited to the auditor, but to such as
were strictly legal, and which he should have allowed.
This limitation on the power of the court, cannot be sanctioned. It is admitted, that a cin which requires legislative
sanction, is not a proper offset, either before the treasury officers
or the court. But there may be cases, in which, the service
having been rendered, a compensation may be made within
the discretibn of the head of the department; and'in such cases,
the court and jury will do, not what an auditor was authorized
to do; but what the head of the department should have done,
in sanctioning an equitable allowance.
It being clear, that the circuit court did not err, in allowing
the offset of the defendant,, if he had a right to compensation
for the services rendered, the validity of this right will be the
next point for inquiry.
On the part of the.government, it is contendid, that the head
of a department may vary the duties of the clerks in his
department, so as to give despatch and regularity to the generaL business of the office, but that by such changes, no clerk
or other officer of the department, has a right to an increase of
compensation. That it appears in the present case there was
no increase of labour, as to time; as. the services for which
compensation is charged were rendered during office hours.
And it is also insisted, that the duties discharged belonged to
another officer of the government; and that it is not competent
For any officer of the government, even the president himself,
.o take from one officer certain duties which the law has
levolved upon him, and require another to discharge them.
By the act of 27th March 1804, the president was authorized to "attach to the navy yard at Washington city, and to
frigates and other vessels, laid up in ordinary in the eastern
branch, a captain of the navy, who shall have the general care
and superintendence of the same, and shall perform the duties
of agent to the navy department."
Under this law, the attorney-general contends it was the
duty of the commandant at the navy yard to make the disburseients which were made by .the defendant; and consequently, no compensation for such services can be allowed to
the defendant.

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[United States v; Macdaniel.]

Whatever may now be the construction of this act, as it regards the duties of the commandant, it appears he was not
required to make the disbursemets winch were made by the
defendant; and consequently they could not have been considered, at that time, as forming a part of the duties of commander of the navy yard.
Bk the act of the 10th July 1832; congress authorized the
apponitment of a separate and permanent agent at Washington,
who shall be entitled "to the same compensation, and under
the same responsibilities, and to be governed'by the same laws
and regulations which now are, or may hereafter be adopted
.for other navy agents;" and it is made his "duty to act as
agent not only for the navy yard in the city of Washington,
but for the navy department, under the direction of.the secretary thereof, in the payment of such- accounts and claims -as
the secretary may direct."
By this act, that.part of the act of 1804 which required the
commander of the navy yard at the city of Washington to act
as agent, is repealed.
Until the defendant was removed from officei in 1829, he
continued to discharge the duties as special agent for the navy
disbursements. But after that period, it is stated that a new
construction of.the act of 1804 being given, those duties were
requred to be performed by the commander of the navy yard,
who continued to discharge them until an agent was appointed
under, the act of the last session.
Unitil this time, the act of 1804 seems never to have been
construed, by the head of the navy department, as providing
for the special servibes performed by the defendant, and it
would seem from the provision.of the late act, which requires
the agent.to act, not only for the navy yard, but for the navy
department, and to "pay such accounts and claims as the
secretary may direct," that the former construction was correct; and the court are of this opinion. These duties would
not have been so specially stated in the act of last session, -if
they had been considered by congress as coming within the
ordinary duties of an agent for the navy yard. But, independent of this considration, it is enough to know that the

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. bacdaniel.]

duties in question were discharged by the defendant, under the
construction given to the law by the secretary of the navy.
It will not be contended that one secretary has not the same
power as another, to give a construction to an act which relates
to the business of the department. And no case could better
illustrate the propriety and justice of this rule, than the one
now under consideration.
The defendant having acted as agent for navy disbursements
for a great number of years, under different secretaries, and
having uniformly received one per cent, on th6 sums paid, as
his compensation, he continues to discharge the duties and receive the compensation, until a new head of the department
gives a different construction of the act of 1804, by which these
duties are transferred to the commander of the navy'yard. By
this new construction, whether right or wrong, no injustice is
done to the defendant, provided he shallbe paid for services
rendered under the former construction of the same act. But
such compensation has been refused him.
It is insisted that as there was no law which authorized the
appointment of the defendant, his services can constitute no
legal claim for compensation, though it might authorize the
equitable interposition of the legislature. That usage, without
law or-against law, can never lay the foundation of a legal
claim, and none other can be set off against a demand by the
government.
A practical knowledge of the action of any one of the great
departments of the government, must convince every person
that the head of a department, in the distribution of its duties
and responsibilities, is often compelled to exercise his discretion.
He is limited in the exercise of his powers by the law; but it
does not follow that he must show a statutory provision for
every thing he does. No government could be administered
on such principles. To attempt to regulate, by law, the minute
movements of every part of the complicated machinery of government would evince a most unpardonable ignorance on the
subject. Whilst the great outlines of its movements may be
marked out, and limitations imposed on the exercise of its
powers, there are numberless things which must be done, that

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[United States v. Macdaniel.]

can neither be anticipated nor defined, and which are sssencial
to the proper action of the government. Hence, of necessity,
usages have been established in every department of the government, -which have become a kind of common law, and
regulate the rights and duties of those who act -within their
respective limits. And no change of such usages can have a
retrospective effect, but must be limited to the future.
Usage cannot alter the law, but it is evidence of the construction given to it, and must be considered binding on past
transactions.
That the duties in question: were discharged by the defendant during office hours, can form no objection to the compensation claimed. They were required of him by the head of
the department, and, being a subordinate, he had no discretion
to decline the labour and responsibility thus imposed. But
seeing that his responsibility would be greatly increased, and
perhaps his labour, the secretary of the. navy increases his
compensation, as m justice he was boidnd to do.
In discharging the ordinary duties of clerk, the compensation
of the defendant was fixed at -fourteen hundred dollars; but
when the duties of agent for navy disbursements wee superadded to those of clerk, there is an adequate augmentation of
pay given to him. Is there any thing unreasonable or unjust
in this'l
But it is said there was no law authorizing such an officer
to be appointed.
That the duties performed by the defendant were necessary
for the public service, has not been denied, nor is it pretended
that the commissions allowed him, were higher than the amount
paid for similar services elsewhere. The payments by him
were legal, and being made under the immediate direction of
the secretary of the navy, errors were avoided which might
have occurred under other circumstances.
It must be admitted that there was no law authorizing the
appointment of the defendant, nor was it considered necessary
that there should be a special statutory provision on the subject. For the convemence of the officers of the navy and
others who were engaged in the -ervice of the department,
certain disbursements became necessary, and as no law spe-

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Macdantel.]

cially authorized the appointment of an agent for this purpose,
they were required to be made by a clerk.
In this manner were these payments made for fifteen years,
under different secretaries of the navy, and the same rate of
compensation, as now claimed, was allowed. The charge was
sanctioned by the accounting officers of the treasury department, and no objection was ever made to it by the committees
of congress, who annually inspected the books of the denartment.
It would seem, therefore, whether the claim of the defendant
be varied in reference to the services performed or to the long
sanction which has been given to them by the navy and treasury departments, its justice is unquestionable. The government does not deny the performance of the services by the
defendant, nor that they do in equity entitle hm to compensation but, as his appointment was without legal authority, it
is insisted he can obtain compensation only by application to
congress.
An action of assumpsit has been brought by the governnent
to recover from the defendant the exact sum, which, m equity,
it is admitted he is entitled to receive, for valuable services
rendered to the public, in a subordinate capacity, under the
express sanction of the head of the navy department. This
sum of money happens to be in the hands of the defendant,
and the question is whether he shall, under the circumstances,
be required to surrender it to the government, and then petition
congress on the subject.
A simple statement of the case would seem to render proper
a very different course.
If some legal provision be necessary to sanction the payment
of the compensation charged, application should be made to
congress by the head of the department, who required the service and promised the compensation. But no such provision
is necessary. For more than fifteen years the claim has been
paid for similar services, and 'it is now too late to withhold it
for services actually' rendered. It would be a novel principle
to.refuse payment to the subordinates of a department, because
their chief, under whose direction they had faithfully served
the public, had mistaken his own powers, and fiad given an

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[United States v. Macdanlel.]

erroneous construction of the law. But the case under .onsideration is stronger than this. It is not a case where payment for services is demanded, but where the government seeks
to recover money from the defendant, to which he is equitably
entitled for services rendered. This court cannot see any nght,
either legal or equitable, in the government, to the sum of money for the recovery of which this action was brought. They
think that the secretary of the navy, in authorizing the defendant to make the disbursements, on which the claim for compensation is founded,. did not transcend those powers which,
under the circumstances of the case, he might well exercise.
And they therefore think that the circuit court did not err in
refusing to give the instructions to the jury as prayed by the
attorney of the United States. The judgment of the circuit
court is therefore affirmed.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the circuit court of the United States for the district
of Columbia, holden m and for the county of Washington, and
was argued by counsel, on consideration whereof, it is ordered
and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the said circuit court m this cause be, and the same is hereby affirmed.

VOL.VII.-C

