JANUARY TERM 1833.

51

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS V. JUAN PERCHEMAN, APPELLEE.

Juan Percheman claimed two thousand acres of land lying in the territory
of Florida, by virtue of a grant fromthe Spanish governor, madem 1815.
His title consisted of a petition presented by himself to the governor of
East Florida, praying for a grant of two thousand acres, at a designated
place, in pursuance of the royal order of the 29th of March 1815, granting lands to the mlitary who were in St Augustine during the invasion of
1812 and 1813, a decree by the governor, made 12th December 1815,
in conformity to the petition, in absolute property, under the authority of
the royal order, a certified copy of which decree and of the petition
was directed to be ispuedto him fromthe secretary's office, in order that
it may be to him m all events an equivalent of a title in form a petition
to the governor, dated 31st December 1815, for an order of survey, and
a certificate of a survey having been made on the 20th of August 1819 in
obedience to the same. This claim was presented, according to law,
to the register and receiver of East Florida, while acting as a board of
commissioners to aseertain claims and titles to lands in East Florida. The
claim was rejected by the board and the following entry made of the
same. -In the memorial of the claimant to this board, he speaks of a
survey made by authority in 1829. If this had been produced it would
have furnished some support for the certificate of Aguilar. As it is, we
reject the claim." Held: that this was not a final action on the claim in
the sense (hose words are used in the act of the 26th of May 1830, entitled "an act supplementary to," &c.
Evdn in cases of conquest, it is very unusual for the conqueror to do more
than to displace the sovereign and assume dominion over the country.
The modern usage of nations, which has become law, would be violated;
that sense of justice and of right, which is acknowledged and felt by the
whole civilized world, would be outraged; if private property should be
generally confiscated, and private rights annulled on a change in the
sovereignty of the country. The people change their allegiance, their
relation to their ancient sovereign is dissolVed, but their relations to
each other, and their rights of property remain undisturbed.
Had Florida changed its sovereign by an act containing no stipulation respecting the property of individuals, the right of property in all those
who became subjects or clitizens of the new government would have been
unaffected by the change. It would have remained the same as under
the ancient sovereign.
The language of the second article of the treaty between the United States
and Spain, of 22d February 1819, by which Florida was ceded to the
United States', conforms to this general principle.
The eighth-article of the treaty"must be intended to stipulate expressly for

52

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Percheman.I

the security to private property, which the laws and usages of nations
would, without express stipulation, have conferred. No construction which
would impairthat security, further than its positive words require, would
seem to be admissible. Without it, the titles of individuals would remain
as valid under the new government as they were under the old. And
those titles, so far at least as they were consummated, might be asserted
in the courts of the United States, iridependently of this article.
The treaty was drawn up int the Spanish as well as in the English languages.
Both are original, and were unquestionably intended by the parties to be
identical. The Spanish has been translated; and it is now understood
that the article expressed in that language is, that- "the grants shall remain ratified and confirmed to the persons in.possession of them, to the
same extent," &c. thus conforming exactly to the umversally received
law of nations.
If the English and Spanish part can, without violence, be made to agree,
that construction which establishes this conformity ought to prevail..
No violence is done to the language of the treaty by a construction which
conforms the English and Spanish to each other. Although the words
" shall be ratified and confirmed," are properly words of contract, stipulating for some future legislation, ±hey are not necessarily so. They may
import that "they shall be ratified and confirmed" by force of the instrument itself. When it is observed that in the counterpart of the same treaty,
executed at the same time, by the same parties, they are used in this
sense, the construction is proper, if not unavoidable.
In the case of Foster v. Elam, 2 Peters, 253, this co.urt considered those
words importing a contract. The Spanish part of the treaty was not
then brought into view, and it was then supposed there was no variance
between them. It was not supposed that there was ever a formal difference of expression in the sane instrument, drawn up in the language
of each party. Had this circumstance been known, it is believed it would
have produced the construction which is now given to the article.
Oa the 8th of May 1822 an act was passed "fo'r ascertaining claims and
titles to land within the territory of Florida." Congress did not design
to submit the validity of titles, which were "valid under the Spamsh government, or by the law of nations," to the determination of the commissioners acting under this law. It was necessary to ascertain these
claims, and to ascertain their location, not to decide finally upon them.
The powers to be exercised by the commissioners ought to be limited to
the object and purpose of the act.
In all the acts passed upon this subject previous to May 1830, ihe decisions
of the commissioners, or of the register and receiver acting as commission.
ers, have been confirmed. Whether these acts affirm those decisions
by which claims are rejected, as well as those by which they are recommended for confirmation, admits of some doubt. Whether a rejection
amounts to more than a refusal to recommend for confirmation, may be
a subject of serious inquiry. However this may be, it can admit of
no doubt that the decision of the commissioners was conclusive in no

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[United States v. Percheman.]
case until confirmed by an act of congress. The language of these acts,
and among others that of the act of 1828, would indicate that the mind
of congress was directed solely to the confirmation of.claims, not to their
annulment. The decision of this question is not necessary to this case.
The act of 26th May 1830, entitled "an act to provide for the final settlement of land claims in Florida," contains the action of congress on the
report of the commissioners of 14th January 1830, in which is the
rejection of the claim of the petitioner in this case. The first, second
and third sections of this act confirm the claims recommended for confirmation by the commissioners. The fourth section enacts "that all
remaining claims, which have been presented according to law, and not
finally acted upon, shall be adjudicated and finally settled upon the same
conditions," &c. It is apparent that no claim was finally acted upon
until it had been acted upon by congress; and it is equally apparerit that
the action of congress in the report containing this claim, is confined to
the confirmation of those titles which were recommended for confirmation. Congress has not passed upon those which were rejected. They
were, of consequence, expressly submitted to the court.
From the testimony in the case, it does not appear that the governor of
Florida, under whose grant the land is claimed by the petitioner, exceeded his authority in making the grant.
Papers translated from a foreign language, respecting the transactions of
foreign officers, with whose pdwsrs and authorities the court are not well
acquainted, containing uncertain and incomplete referencesto things well
understood by the parties, but not understood by the courti should be
carefully examined, before it pronounces that an officer holding a high
place of trust and confidence, has exceeded his authority.
On general principles of law, a copy of a paper given by a public officer,
whose duty it is to keep the originals, ought to be received in evidence.

APPEAL from the superior court for the eastern edistrict of
Florida.
On the 17th of September 1830, Juan Percheman filed in
'the clerk's office of the superior court for the eastern district of
Florida, a petition, setting forth his claim- to a tract of land
containing two thousand acres, within the district of East
Florida, situated at a place called the Ockliwaha, along the
margin of the river St John.
The petitioner stated thitt he derived his title to the said
tract of land under a grant made to him on the 12th day of
December 1815 by governor- Estrada, then Spanish governor
of East Florida, and whilst East Florida belonged to Spain.
The documents exhibiting the alleged title annexed to the
petition were the following.

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Percheman.]
His excellency the governor -- Don Juan Percheman, ensign of the corps of dragoons of America, and stationed in this
place, with due veneration and respect appears before your excellency and says, that in virtue of the bounty in lands, which,
pursuant to his royal order of the 29th of March of the present
year, the king grants to the military which were of this place in
the time of the invasion which took place in the years 1812 and
1813, and your petitioner considering himself as being comprehended m the said sovereign resolution, as it is proved by the
annexed certificates of his lordship brigadier don Sebastian
Kindelan, and by that which your lordship thought proper to
provide herewith, which certificates express the merits and services rendered by your petitioner at the time of the siege, in
consequence of which said bounties were granted to those who
deserved them, and which said certificates your petitioner. solicits from your goodness may be returned to him, for any other
purposes which may be useful to your petitioner- therefore, he
most respectfully supplicates your lordship to grant him two
thousand acres of land, in the place called Ockliwaha, situated
on the margins of St John's river, which favour he doubts not
to receive from your good heart and pateml dispositions. St
Augustine, of Florida, 8th December 1815.
JUAN PERCHEMAN.

St Augustine, of Florida, 12th December 1815. Whereas
this officer, the party interested, by the two certificates inclosed,
and which will be returned to hun for the purposes which may
be convement to him, has proved the services which he rendered in the defence of this province, and in consideration also
of what is provided in the royal order of the 29th March last
past, wich he cites, I do grant hun the two thousand acres of
land wuch he solicits, in absolute property, in the indicated
place; to 'which effect let a certified copy of this petition and
decree be issued to hin from the secretary's office, in order that
it may be to him in all events an equivalent of a title in form.
ES'TRADA.

PETITION.
His excellency the governor-Don Juan
Percheman, sergeant of the squadron of dragoons of America,
stationed in this place, with due veneration and respect appears
before your excellency, and says, that in virtue of the royal

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[United States v. Percheman.]

bounties in lands, granted by his majesty, by his royal order of
the 29th of March of the present year, to the military individuals who were in this place aforesaid in the time of the-mvasion thereof, in the years 1812 and 1813, and your petitioner
considering himself as included in the said royal resolution, as
he proves it by the annexed certificates, exhibited with due
solemnity, one of them from the brigadier Don Sebastian Kindelan, and the other with which your excellency thought
proper to provide him, which certificates express the merits and
services which he acquired and rendered in the time and epochs
of the siege, in consequence of which the meritorious were thus
rewarded, and which certificates your excellency will be pleased
to return to your petitioner, for other purposes which may be
useful to him, wherefore, your petitioner most respectfully supplicates your excellency to be pleased to grant hun two thousand acres of land, m the place called Ockliwaha, situated on
the. margins of the river St John, which favour he doubts not
to receive from the benevolent and charitable dispositions of
your excellency. St Augustine, of Florida, on the 8th of December 1815.
JUAN PERCHEMAN.

'St Augustine, of Florida, on ihe 12th of December 1815. Whereas this officer interested proves by the two
certificates annexed, and which will be returned to hun for
such.purposes as may suit him, the services which he has rendered in the defence of this province, and also in consideration
of the provisions of the royal order, under date of the 29th
March last, which is referred to, I do grant to him, in absolute
,property, the two thousand acres. of hind, in the place whieh
he indicates; for the attainment of which let a certified copy of
this petition and decree be issued 'to him, which -documents,
will at all events setve him as a title in form.
DECREE.

ESTRADA.

I, Don Thomas de Aguilar, under-lieutenant of the army,
and secretary for his majesty of the government of this place,
and of the province thereof, do certify, that the preceding copy
is faithfully drawn from the original, which exists in the secretary's office, under my charge; and in obedience to what is

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Percheman.]

ordered, I give the present in St Augustine, of Florida, on the
12th of December.1815.
ToMAs DE AGUILAR,

His excellertcy the governor:Don Juan Percheman, ensign of the corps of dragoons, and
commandant of the detachment of the same, stationed in this
place, with due respect represents to your excellency that this
government having granted your petitioner two thousand acres
of land in the place called Ockliwaha, on the margin of the
river St John, he may be permitted to have the same surveyed
by a competent surveyor, as soon and at any time your petitioner will find it convenient, which favour your petitioner
hopes to receive from the high consideration of your excellency.
St Augustine, of Florida, on the 31st December 1815.
PETITION FOR SURVEY.

JUAN PERCHEMAN.

St Augustine, 31st December 1816.
is granted.

The preceding petition
ESTRADA.

I, Don Robert M'Hardy, an inhabitant of this province, and
appointed surveyor by decree - of this government, rendered on
the 31st December 1815, in behalf of the interested partyi do
certify that I have surveyed for Don Juan Percheman, lieutenant of the Havana dragoons, a tract of land containing two
thousand acres, situated on the south side of Ocldiwaha, and is
conformable in all its circumstances to the following plat. In
testimony whereof, I sign the present in St Augustine, of
Florida, on the 20th of August 1819.
RT. M'HARDY.

The petitioner proceeds to state that his claim to said tract
of land so claimed by hin was submitted to the examination
of the board of commissioners appointed under and in virtue of
an act of the congress of the United States of America, entitled
"aji act for ascertaining claims and titles to lands in the terntory of Florida, and to provide for the survey and disposal of
the public lands in Florida," passed the 3d day of March
1823.
And that the land so claimed by him, and situated, as aforesaid, within the territory of Florida, and within the jurisdiction

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[United States v. Percheman.]

of this honourable court, as aforesaid, is embraced by the treaty
between Spain and the United States of the 22d of February
1819; that his claim to said land has not been finally settled
under the provisions of the act of the congress of the United
States, entitled "an act supplementary to the several acts providing for the settlemelit and confirmation of private land
claims m Florida," passed the 23d day of May 1828, or of any
of the acts to which the said last recited act is supplementary;
and that the claim of the petitioner to the. said land has not
been reported by the said commissioners appointed under any
of the said acts of congress, or any other, or by the register
and receiver acting as such, under the several acts of the congress of the United States in such case made and provided, as
antedated or forged, and thbt the said claim hath not been
annulled by the aforesaid treaty between Spain and the United
States, nor by the decree ratifying the same.
Wherefore he prayed that the validity of his claimto said
land may be inquired into, and decided upon by the court, and
that, in pursuance of an act of congress for that purpose, m
that case made and provided, the United States be made a
party defendant to this petition, 4nd that process, &c. &c.
On the 2d of Octoler the attorney of the United States for
the district of East Florida "filed an answer to the petition of
Juan Percheman, .mw-ich it is stated,-that on the 28th of
November 1823, he, the said Juan Percheman, sold, transferred
and conveyed, to one Francis P Sanchez, all his right, title
and mtevrest in the -tract of land claimed by him; which, the
answer asserted, appeared by a copy of the conveyance annexed
to the action, and that he had not, at the tune of the filing of
his petition, any right, title or interest in the land. The answer admits that the clann of the said Francis P Sanchez to
the said tract of land was duly presented to the register and
receiver of the district, while they were acting as a board of
commissioners to ascertain titles to land in East -Florida, and
avers that the said claim was finally acted upon and rejected
by the said register and receiver, while lawfully acting as
aforesaid, as appears by a copy of their report thereon, annexed
to te answer.
The United States further say that the tract of land claimed
VOL. VII.-H

SUPREME COURT.
(United States v. Perchewan.]

by the petitioner contains a less quantity than three thousand
five hundred acres, to wit, but two thousand acres by the
showing of the petitioner himself, and that the court has no
jurisdiction in the case, nor can any court exercise jurisdiction
over-the claim against the United States.
The answer submits, that if the governor Estrada did make
the grant or concession set forth by the petitioner at the time,
"and in. the manner alleged in the said petition or bill of complaint, he made it contrary to the laws, ordinances, and royal
regulations of the government of Spain, which were then m
force in East Florida, on the subject of granting lands, and
without any power or authority to do so, and that the said
grant was and is therefore null and void, and that the right
and title to said tract of land, consequently, is vested in the
said United States, as will more fully appear by reference to
the laws, ordinances and royal regulations aforesaid."
The proceedings of the register and receiver in the claim of
Francis P Sanchez, referred to in the answer, were as follows:
"This is a certificate of Thomas de Aguilar, that, in December 1815, Estrada granted Don Juan Percheman,. comet
of squadron. of dragoons, for services, two thousand acres of
land, at a place called Ockliwaha, on the St John's river. In
1819, Percheman sold to Sanchez. In the memorial of the
clainant to this board, he speaks of a survey-made by authority in 1819. If tis had been produced it would have furnished some support to the certificate of Aguilar. As it is, we
reject the claim."
The pbtitioner, by an amended. petition filed on the 14th of
December 1830, stated that the register and receiver of the
United States for East Florida, in their final report on the land
claims,, transmitted on the 12th December 1828 to the secretary of the treasury, reported the clam of the petitioner as
rejected.on the ground that the claim depended on a certificate
only of Don Thomas Aguilar, notary of the Spanish government in East Florida, and he averred that his claim depended
on an original grant or file iL the office of the public archives
of East Florida, a certified copy of which is filed with the petition in the court, dated 8th December 1815.
The amended petition also states that the sale made by hun

JANUARY TERM 1833
[United States v. Perchcman.]

of the tract of land described in the original petition, was a
conditional sale and no more.
It alsdstates that the register and receiver further reported
that the survey of the tract of land, made by the authority of
the Spamsh government, was not produced to them but the
petitioner avers the contrary, for that the survey was filed with
the claim and was before them when they examined the same,
for the truth of which averment a certificate from the keeper of
the office of archives was filed with the amended petition.
On the-hearing of the case before the supreme court for the
district of East Florida, the claimant,-by his counsel, offered
in evidence a copy from the office of the keeper of public arcluves of the original grant on which this claun is founded, to
the receiving of which in evidence the said attorney for the
United States objected, alleging that the original grant itself
should be produced, and its execution proved, before it could
be admitted in evidence, and that the original only could be
received in evidence which objection, after argument from
the counsel, was overruled by the court, and the copy from the
office of the keeper of the public archives, certified according
to law, was ordered to be received in evidence. And the court
further ordered, that though by the express statute of this territory, copies are to be received in evidence, yet, in cases where
either the claimant or the United States shall suggest that the
original in the office of the keeper -of the public archives is
deemed necessary to be produced in court, on motion therefor,
a subpena will be issued by order of the court to the said
keeper, to appear and produce the said original in court for die
examination there.
The court proceeded to a decree in the case, and adjudged
that the claim of the petitioner as presented was within its
jurisdiction-" that the grant is valid, that it ought to be, and
by viitue of the statute of the 26th of May 1830, and of the
late treaty between the United States and Spain, it is confirmed."
The United States appealed to this court.
The case was argued by Mr Taney, attorney-general, for
the United States, and by Mr White, for the appellee.

SUPREME COURT
[United States v. Percneman.]

For the United States it was contended
1. That the copy of the grant and other proceedings produced by the petitioner, were not admissible in evidence, but
the original papers ought to have been produced.
2. That the court had not jurisdiction of the case under the
act of congress of May 26, 1830; the claim in question having
been finally acted npon and rejected by the register and receiver.
3. If the court had jurisdiction of the claim, the suit could
be maintained only by Francis P Sanchez, to whom Percheman bad conveyed his interest, and the court erred in confirning and decreeing the land to Percheman.
4. That if these points are against the United States, the
authority exercised- by the Spanish governor in making the
grant to the appellee, was not within the royal order of the
king of Spain.
A]s to. the first point, the admissibility in evidence of certified
copies of the grant and other proceedings, the attorney-general
.cited the act of congress of May 26, 1824, sect. 4, of May 23,
1828, and the Laws of Florida of July 3, 1823, sect. 4.
As to the second point, that the court had not jurisdiction of
the case under the act of May 26, 1830, the claim having been
finally acted upon and rejected, lie cited the fourth section of
that law. The acts of congress made the decision of the corn-missioners, and afteiwards of the register and receiver, final in
all cases under tnee thousand five hundred acres. For the
correctness of this position lie referred to the various provisions
of the laws on the 'subject of the claims to lands in Florida,
which are found in the first, fourth, fifth and slth sections of
the act of May 8, 1822, the second section of the act of March
3, 1823 , the fourth and fifth sections of the act of February 8,
1827, and the fourth and sixth sections of the act of May 23,
1828. The language and provisions of all these laws, he
contended, sustain the position that the decision of the register
and receiver upon the claim of the appellee was final, as his
claim was within three thousand five hundred acres.
The act of congress of May 26, 1824 gave jurisdiction to
decide on all claims to lands in Missouri. In Axkansm the
jurisdiction was confied to claims not exceeding one league

JANUARY TERM 1833.
(United States v. Pcrcheman.]

square. No argument can therefore be drawn in favour of the
jurisdiction m Florida from that given in Missouri.
The restrictive words m the act of 1828 are not in the act of
1824, and their introduction shows that the legislature,
warned by experience, did not mean to give. the same jurisdiction which it had given before.
Nor did the act of 26th May 1830 mean.to extend the jurisdiction beyond that given by the law of 1828. It uses strong
words of restriction. It refers to the jurisdiction given by "he
law of 1828, and not that given by the act of 1824.
It is said, that the act of 1830, section 4, would be nugatory
according to this construction. If that were the case, it would
not alter the plain meaning of the words.
The legislature intended to provide for any cases which, in
the various legislation on that subjedt, might, by possibility, be
found not to have been finally acted on, and to supersede the
necessity of further legislation. The fact that no such case
existed, and that there is notlng for at to operate on, and that,
there were no cases brought to the view of the legislature for
which this section provides, cannot affect its construction.
Congress meant to provide for any unforeseen contingency,
and any cases unknown or. overlooked, which had not been
finally acted on.
As to the tlrd point, that if the court had jurisdiction, the
claim could only be maintained by Francis P Sanchez, it was
argued, that the provisions of the act of 1824 required that the
party having title must file the petition. the language of the
section which gives the power to the commissioners to decide
is, "to hear and determine all questions relative to the title of
the clainants." Thus, the title under which a claimant presents himself must be exhibited, and the decision of the commissioners, and afterwards of the register and receiver, must
be upon the title. The conveyance of the appellee to Sanchez
was absolute; it gave hin all the title and rights derived fiom
the grant of the Spamsh governor; it made lum the legal owner
of the tract of land described -in the grant, and thus hy him
only, or by those holding under him, could a petition be presentcd under the provisions of the act of congress.
The petition of the appellee was a suit m chaicery against

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Percheman.]

the United States, by a person who claims the title against
every one else, and he must show his title, and establish it as
a complete title, before he can be relieved. Cited, act of congress of 1824, sect. 6, act of 1830, sect. 4. How can land be
decreed to one in a court of chancery, when it appears to the
court that he is not entitled to it, and that another is the owner
of it!
To sustain the position that, governor Estrada was not
authorized by the royal order of the king of Spain to make the
grant to the appellee, it was argued, that the powers of the
governor did not extend to the issuing of grants for so large a
tract of lands as that claimed by the petitioner in this case.
The royal order of-March 29, 1815, Whit-'s Collection of Land
Laws, 248; th, letter of governor Kenderland to the captaingeneral of Cuba, White's Collection of Land Laws, 247, were
cited. Also, The Umted States v. Arredondo, 6 Peters, 727,
728.
Mr White, for the appellee.
The appellee, who was petitioner in the court below, obtained a decree of confirmation to his claim of two thousand
arpens of land in East Florida.
From that decree the Umted States have appealed, and the
grounds upon which that appeal was taken, have been explained by the attorney-general. This case is one of great
importance, because it involves a principle common to a number of others, and more especially because it concerns the
honour and good faith of the government of the United States.
The title set up by the petitioner, an officer in the service of
the king of Spain, is admitted to be genuine.
It was made by the governor of East Florida, in pursuance
of a royal order promulgated in 1815.
It was made to one of the officers, specially designated as a
person intended to be benefited by the royal bounty which
dictated the ordinance. The*grant was made as a remuneration for services rendered by the claimant to the province at a
time of great peril, occasioned by external invasion and internal insurrection. The grant was made prior to the limitation
contained in the treaty, and was presented to the commissioners

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[United States v. Perchernan.]

appointed to ascertain clais and titles to land in East Florida.
Upon this stateof the facts presented on the record, three points
will be submitted on the part of the appellee to the consideration of the court, and relied upon in support of the decree of
the court belolw.
1. This title was confirmed by the treaty of the 22d of February 1819.
2. It is not competent for congress to pass any law authorizmg any tribunal created under its authority to invalidate
such a title.
3. By the act of 1830 this court has jurisdiction of the case.
The first point involves the construction of the treaty. Whether
is the eighth article executory or executed? This requires an
examination into the article itself, and the negotiations which
led to it.
By the treaty of the 22d of February 1819, Spain ceded the
Flondas to the United States.
The latter acquired these provinces and their appendages in
full sovereignty, including all public grounds and edifices, and
all vacant lands which were not private property. Article 2d.
It was stipulated between the high contracting parties that
all grants made by his catholic mdjesty, or his lawful authorities, before the 24th of January 1818, in the ceded territory,
should remain confirmed and acknowledged, in the same Manler as they would have been if the provinces had continued
under the dominion of his catholic majesty
Article 8th.
Further time was given to proprietors who had been prevented
from fulfilling the conditions of their grants by the recent circumstances of the Spanish monarchy, and the revolutions in
Europe.
The inhabitants of the ceded territory were protected in all
their rights, and became citizens of the United States. Articles
5th and 6th.
Congress has, from time to time, adopted various legislative
provisions for the purpose of preserving the national faith, separating private property from the public domain, and securing
the individual titles intended Eo be protected by the treaty.
Commissioners were appointed to examine land claims, with
authority to confirm grants not exceeding a certain size, and

SUPREME COURT.
(United States v. Percheman.]
to report those above that limit to congress. When these commissions were dissolted, .similar powers were vested in the
register and receiver of the land offices. In some instances,
an option was given to the.holders of certain -grants to select a
league square within their respective concessions, upon condition of surrendering the residue by deed to the United States.
Through these and other means, the titles of the smaller proprietors have, for the most part, been definitively adjusted, and
the larger claims alone remain for settlement. These, congress, by act of 23d May 1828, authorized the courts of the
territory to hear and deteriine, with an appeal to twe. supreme
court of the United States. Several cases have been adjuicated in the courts below. Decisions have been pronounced,
not easily recondolable, if not at total variance with each other:
appeals have been taken, and the questions discussed are now
before this court, whose judgment is deeply interesting, not
merely to the parties on the record, but to the numerous other
suitors whose rights, or supposed rights, depend on similar
principles.
One or two considerations of a general nature may here, it
is presumed, be not inappropriately introduced. Those who
represent the interests of the United States in some of the cases
before the court, have thought proper to assume, as one ground
of defence, that the confirmation or rejection of these titles is
matter essentially of executive or legislative cognizance, and
addresses itself exclusively to their discretion. The question
they urge is a political, not a judicial one, and is equally unfit
to be submitted to; and mcapable of being decided -by a court.
Waiving all considerations of the hardship and mockery of
referring claimants under a treaty to a tribunal-incompetent to
afford them redress-forbearing to touch on the indecorum of
a construction wluch attributes to congress an act of futile or
deceptive legislation-it will be enough to say that this interpretation, it is believed, has been once considered and rejected.
Soulard's case, 4 Peters, 511.
The argument, indeed, amounts to little more than thiswehave bound ourselves to do what Spam would have done.
What that is, we kniow not. and havng referred the questior
to thosewho cannot decide it, we will therefore do nothing.

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[United States v. Percheman.]

Perfidy often wears the mask of subtlety, as well from shame
as cowardice: but it is seldom that the counsellors of bad aith,
if they condescend to argue at aii, are satisfied with a defence
so feeble..
The act of congress requires the court to examine and decide upon these claims in conformity with the law of nations,
the treaty, aud the laws of Spare.
It is proposed to consider the subject in reference to each of
these several rules of decision.
1. The law of nations.
It is conceived .that, ac'!ording .to the mitigated rights of
war, bs now well understood and settled'by international law,
the lands of mdividuals "re safe even. after conquest, Vattel, b.
3, c. 13, sect. 200: much less can a cession, of itself, destroy
private rights. Absolute or perfect grants, itis'believed, would
be protected by the law of nations, independent of the treaty.
Some legislative recognition of their validitymight indeed be
necessary to sustain a suit upon them. in our courts, but the
national obligation to respect them could hardly-be denied.
It is in behalf of concessions or inchoate grants that the stipulations of the treaty were most requisite and important. To
the acts of the Span sh government in tins respect, not merely
the authority of res adjudicata,such as -belongs to all foreign
sentences and decrees, was given by the treaty; its effect was
to make binding on us, all that would have been-valid against
Spain, and to oblige us to complete whatever she, in good faith
had begun, but left unfinished.
A detailed examination of the maxims of customary international law, as they woulA bear upon the rights of proprietors
of land in Florida, is, not called for in the presence of an elpress
treaty stipulation, and, in referring to the law of nations as a
rule of decision for the courts, congress perhaps had more expressly m view such part of it as relates to the interpretation of
treaties. Tns will be more conveniently considered under
another head.
2. The treaty.
'This instrument, it is contended, should be most liberally
construed. Its interpretation is to be sought in the moives
and policy of the parties.; in their words, and in their ats.
'VOL. VII.-I

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Percheman.]

The leading .objects of the United States were, to procure a
mare convenient and secure frontier; to command the Gulf of
Mexico, the outlet of a large portion of their commerce; to
obtain indemnit.y for their merchants, and to secure themselves
against the annoyahce they must naturally expect from Florida,
in the hands of an enemy, or a false or 'eeble neutral. It is
notorious that for more than a century this territory had been
a constant source of injury, jealousy, and vexation to the adjoining colonies and states. The colony of Georgia was founded
as a barrier against the encroachments of the Spaniards; and
the refuge and encouragement afforded by the latter to absconding slaves, hostile Indians, and other incendiaries, was a continued- cause of complaint, from the settlement of Carolina to
the Seminole -campaign, In examining the interests and
duties of the United States in connexion with this subject, it is
not as landed proprietors alone that we must regard them.
The rage for new settlements, mdeed, makes this the chief
point among the people, and greatly increases the prejudices
against the large gr, nts; but the court is far above the contagion of their example.
To consider the cession of Florida merely as a land-jobbing
transaction, would, be doing great injustice to the liberal and
enlightened policy which sought this valuable acquisition, with
steady calmness, through so long a course of evasion and delay
Yet its value even in that point of view is not unworthy of
notice. Thirty-five millions and a half of acres, of which, up
to the 30th of June 1828, but little more than a million and a
half had been granted or sold, (Reports of Committees, H. R.
No. 95, 2d session 20th congress), will surely, -after making a
most liberal allowance for the satisfaction of unsettled land
claims, more than refund to us the five millions -paid to our own
merchants. Computing but trty millions at the mmum
ipilce to which it is proposed to reduce the refuse lands, the
United States will receive back their principal from the soil,
and obtain the sovereignty for nothing.
It is admitted that,.m the cession of a province, the disposition of the-Inhabitants.and their effects is a question of policy
between the.parties. To divest them of their rights of property
is, however, in modern times, an unheard of cruelty. Usually

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[United States v. Percheman.]

the option is allowed them of becoming subjects of the new
govermment, or of selling their estates, and removing within a
specified period. Such were the terms of cession of this very
province *from Spain to Britain in 1763;- and-from Britain to
Spain twenty years afterwards. It will be borne in mind by
the court that population rather than'land is the want of the
United States; that their policy as to naturalization is as liberal
as that which the wisest modem philosopher has praised in th .
greatest of the ancient republics; and that sovereignty, not
soil, was the great motive for the acquisition.
Our government, it may safely be iffirmed, neither contemplated the expulsion of the ancient inhabitants, nor any injury
to their property. The terms held out in the treaty ceding
Louisiana, as well as that by which 'Florida was-acquired, show
that the United States never intended to grasp a barren sceptre,
and wave it over a dispeopled territory. The inhabitants were
made citizens. The province -was to become a state. Can it
be imagmed that any rational government would act so unwisely, as to receive into their society a large body of foreigners,
endow them with civil rights and political power, and, after
rendering them disaffected, by stripping them of their property,
leave to these malcontents the protection of an extensive, inportanit, afd exposed frontierq
Many of the motives which must have operated on Spare
are equally obvious. She naturally 'wished to extinguish demands, the justice of which had been admitted, while their
satisfaction had been evaded until all the arts of procrastination
were exhausted. She night desire to get nd of a useless and
expensive appendage; and she must have foreseen -that it
would probably be wrested from her as an indemnity, if she.
trifled much longer with our patience. But, in yielding up the
inhabitants with the territory, she would naturally stipulate.
most, favourably for the people she was about to surrender.
She did not intend to sacrifice them. Their fidelity to her in
every vicissitude; the temptations by which they had been
assailed, the invasions to which they had been exposed; their
sufferings, their constancy, their very helplessness, all pleaded
powerfully in their favour.
In the eighth article, two parties were stipulating for the

SUPREME COURT.
rUnited States v. Percheman.]

security and advantage of a third, whom both had the strongest
reasons to cherish and protect. It is submitted, therefore, with
some degree of 'confidence, that, so far as the motives and
policy of the parties afford a key to the meaning of their words,
the construction most favourable to the claimants is permitted
to, nay, is enjoined upon the court.
Before proceeding to examine the language of the treaty, a
few observations on the rules of interpretation may, perhaps,
ae pardoned. Jurists generally admit that all grants, contracts,
and stipulations are to be taken most strongly against the
grantor. Cooper's Justiman, m note, 601. The words of the
party promising are to be regarded rather than those of the
party to whom the promise is made. Vattel, b. 2, c. 17, sec.
267. Other general rules are to be found m the works of the
most esteemed publicists, and must be familiar to the court.
Grotius, b. 2, ch. 16, p. 136. Vattel, b. 2, ch. 17, sec. 270.
Among the rest, that interpretation which is drawn from the
reason of the act is strongly and safely recommended. Vattel,
b. 2, c. 17, sec. 287. A .special rule of construction has,
moreover, been deduced from the character of the stipulstion
itself. Hence the distinction between things favourable and
things odious-a distinction recognized by Grotius and Vattel.
Grotius, b. 2, ch. 16, sec. 16, p. 148. Vattel, b. 2, ch. 17,
sec. 800, 301, 303. The difference between the former, and
mere acts of liberality prejudicial to the sovereign, is illustrated
by the last named author, (Vattel, b. 2, ch. 17,.sec. 310), in
such a manner as leaves no doubt to which class the provisions
of the eighth article belong.
What, indeed, can be more clearly entitled to rank among
things favourable than engagements between nations securing
the private property of faithful subjects, honestly acquired
under a government which is on the eve of relinquishing their
allegiance, and confided to the pledged -protection of that
country which is about to receive them as citizens?
This brings us to the words of the treaty. There is a difference betweenthe English and the Spanish versions of the
eighth article. Both are equally originals, but surely the justice and liberality of the United States will extend to the claimants the full benefit of either. The first difference is in render-

JANUARY TERM 1833.
LUnited States v. Percteman.]

ing " conceoones de terrenos" as "grants of land2' Coceszones,
it is apprehended, is a term much broader than grants, and
comprehends all which we, in the technical language of our
land laws, might call entries or warrants of survey or locatioh.
The substitution of lawful, in the English, for legitimos, in the
Spanish, will be commented on in another place. The residue
of the clause, that those grants shall be ratified and confirmed
to the persons in possession of the lands, to the same extent that
the same grants would be valid, &c. is by no means equivalent
to the Spanish phraseology. The latter, fairly rendered, is to
this effect; "All concessions of land nade by his catholic
majesty, or by hIs legitimate authorities, before the 24th January 1818, in the aforesaid territories, which his majesty cedes
to the United States, shall remain confirmed and acknowledged
to the persons in possession of them (i. e. the concessions), in
the same manner that they would have been if the dominion
of his catholic majesty over these territories had continued."
The difference between declaring that these grants shall be
ratified and confirmed to the persons in possession of the lands,
to the same extent that the same grants would have been valid,
&c., and,saying that all concessions of land shall remain confirmed and acknowledged to the persons in possession of them
(i. e. the title papers), in the same manner that they would have
.been, &c., is sufficiently obvious and important. The sense is
materially different. The English side of the treaty leaves the
ratification of the graits executory-they shall be ratified, the
Spanish, executed-they shall continue acknowledged and confirmed, quedaranratificados. Quedan signifies remain or continue, and in this sense is used in the last clause of the same
article-quedan anuladasy de mngun valor, remain null and o..
no effect. In the English, possession refers.to the lands; in
the Spamsh, to the grants. The relative ellas agrees with the
antecedent concesiones; if it referred to terrenos, the relative
would have been ellos. No word equivalent to recent is to be
found m the Spanish.
It has been supposed, with little reason, that the eighth
article might be interpreted to confer a discretion, rather than
impose an obligation on the American government. Itis one
of the admitted rules of construction, that interpretations .which

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Percheman.]

lead to an absurdity, or render an act nall, are to be avoided.
Vattel, b. 2, ch. 17, see. 282, 304.
The king of Spain can annul a grant made by himself without any dlegatiom of surprise or fraud, simply in virtue -f his
absolute will and sovereign power. It is too late for us to
deny that position, we have recognized it by the treaty The
grants to Alagon, Vargas, and Punon Rostro.were annulled.
By the treaty we succeed to all the rights of Spain the concessions made by Spam. are to continue valid to the same
extent, &c. but will it be asserted that, in succeeding to the
rights of Spare, we succeed to the right of his catholic majesty
to annul the grants of his subjects I Can it be pretended that
the provisions of the eighth article were designed only to leave
all grants, perfect and inchoate, as completely at the mercy of
the American government as they had been at that of the
Spanish monarchI
In attempting to ascertain the true meaning of the parties,
it is humbly conceived we are not confined to the language of
the treaty. We may look into the negotiations which preceded'it. In this instance, there is a particular propriety in
doing so. "As the instrument of ratification, an essential part
of the whole treaty refers to the history of the negotiation it
lets in the whole of that history, as matter to be adverted to,
according to all the stritness of legal argument, in reasoning
on the construction of the claun in question. The matter is
thus made capable of being argued as if the question were
upon an act of parliament, or private deed reciting the circumstances under which it was obtained. One might, therefore,
rest, as elucidating the case, upon all the authorities which
establish, with respect to private and diplomatic instruments,
that, however general and comprehensive particular expressions may be, they ought, in their effect, to be confined to the
particular object the parties had in view. The reports of the
court of chancery in England contain a variety of instances
as to the restriction of deeds, however widely expressed, to the
parti&ular object of the parties, founded on a review of the cirbthey were made. (Vide Cholmondly
cumstances under which
and Clinton.) It is also observed by Vattel (268), that we
are to interpret a clause in the itmost latitude that the stnct

JANUARY TERM 1833.
tUnited States v. Percheman.]

and appropriate meaning of the words will admit of,. if it appears that the author had in view every thing which that
strict and appropriate meaning comprehends but we must
merpr~t it in a more limited sense.when it appaars probable.
that the author did not.mean it to extend to every thing which
the strict propriety of the terms might be made to include."
MS. Opinion of sir John Joseph Dillon on Rattenbury's grant.
A short sketch of the negotiations, with some brief extracts
and references, will therefore be submitted. In January 1818
the government of the United States ploposed to the Chevalier
de Oms to terminate all differences m the following terms
1. Spain to cede all territory eastward of the Mississippi.
2. The eastern boundary to be the Colorado.
S. Claims for mdemnities to be. referred to commissioners.
4. The lands m East Florida, and to the Perdido, to be hdld
as security for the indemnities, but no grant subsequent to
August 11, 1802, to be considered valid.
5. Spain to be released from the payment of the debts. Lyman's Diplomacy U. States, vol. 2, p. 133.
On the. 24th October 1818, Don Luis de Orns proposes to
cede the Flondas: "the donations or sales of land made by
the government of is majesty, or by legal authorities, until
this time, are nevertheless to be valid." 1 Executive Papers,
1st sess. 16th cong. 1819, 1820, doc. 2, p. 25.
The secretary of state replies, October 31, 1818, "neither
can. the United States recogmze as valid all theigraiits of land
uptil this time, and at the. same time renounce all their claims
for indemnity." Ue adverts o the notice given to the government of Spain, that all the grants lately made within those
territories. (i. e. to Alagon, Vargas, &c.) must be cancelled,
unless some other adequate fund should be provided to satisfy
the claims of the United States and their citizens. 1 Executive Papers, 1st sess. 16th cong. 1819, 1820, doc. 2, p. 25.
De Onis rejoins, 10th November 1818, "my second proposal has been admitted by your government, with this modification, that all grants and sales of land made by his catholic
majesty, or by lawful Spanish authorities in the. Flondas, from
the year 1802 to the present, shall be null and void. To this
modification, in its absolute sense, I cannot assent, in as much

SUPREME COURT.
[United States Y. Percheman.]

as it is offensive to.the dignity and mprescriptible rights of the
crown of Spain, which, as the legitimate owner of both the
Flondas, had a right to dispose of those lands as it pleased
and, further, as the said modification would be productive of
incalculable injury to the bona fide possessors, who have acquired, settled, and improved those tracts of land."
"The extent of what'I can agree to is, that the late grants
made by his catholic majesty in the Floridas since the 24th of
Jatiuary last, the date of my first note, announcmg his majesty's willingness to cede them to the United States (the
said grants havingibeen made with a view to promote population, cultivation and industry, and not with that of alienating
them), shall be declared null and void, m consideration of the
grantees not -having complied with the essential condition of
the cession, as has been the fact." 1 Ex. Papers, 1st sess.
16th cong. doe. 2, p. 26.
On the 9th of February 1819, the minister of Spare submitted his project of a treaty. The ninth article, answering to
the eighth of the present treaty, is as follows
"All grants of lands made by his catholic majesty, or his
legitimate authorities, m the aforesaid territories of the two
Flondas, and others which his majesty cedes to theUnited
States, shall be confirmed and acknowledged as valid, exceptmg those grants which may have been made after the 24th of
January of last year, the date that the first proposals were
made for the cession of those proyinces, which shall be held
null, in consideration of the grantees not having complied with
the. conditions of the cession." 1 Ex. Papers, 1st sess. 16th
cong. dc. 2, p. 37.
On the 13th of February 1819, the American secretary
offered his counter project, in which the eighth article proposed
stands thus
"All grants of land made by or in the name of his catholic
majesty in the aforesaid-territo n es, after the 24th of January
1818, shall be held-null, the conditions of the said grants not
havingteen performed by the-grantees. All grants made be-fore that date by his catholic majesty, or by his legitimate authorities in the .-aid territories, the conditions 'of which shall
have been performed by the granthes according to the tenorof

TANUARY TERM 1833.
[United States v. Percheman.]

their respective grants, and none other, shall be confirmed and
acknowledged as valid." 1 Ex. P-'ners, 1st sess. 16th cong.
doe. 2, p. 43.
In the minute or protocol of conferences preserved by M.
Hyde de Neuville, whose good offices were interposed on this
occasion, the following entry will be found:
"qrticle ezghth. This article cannot be vaned from what is
contained in the chevalier's project, as the object of the last
clause therein is merely to save the honour and dignity of the
sovereignty of his catholic- majesty.
",Note. of Mr .fdants tb reon. Agreed, with the following
explanation that all grants of land which shall not- be annulled by this convention are valid to the same extent as they are
binding on his catholic majesty.
" Remarks of X. De .N'euville. The secretary of state observed to me, that the federal government would, most assuredly,
never entertain thfe idea of disturbing individuals who were
vested with a bona fide tile to their property, but, as a treaty
ought not to cover fraudulent practices, so no more could be
asked of the Unite. States than could be offered by his catholic
majesty that, being in this case substituted for his majesty,
they would scrupulously fulfil their engagements, but that
more could not be.expected 6f them.
"The secretary of state even proposes, if M. De'Onis wishes
it, that the article shal be inserted in the treaty as proposed
by the minister of Spain, on condition that the above explanation shall be given in the form of a note. The federal government, unwilling to leave any thing in -a state of doubt or
uncertainty, only wish to place on the most secure footing
whatever is just and honourable, and is at the same time perfectly satisfied that his catholic maj.esty neither asks nor wishes
more." I Ex. Papers, 1st sess. 16th cong. doc. 2, p. 48.
The eighth article was finally inserted as it at pres6nt stands;
but doubts arising whether the recent large grants were effectualy excluded by the words of the treaty, Mr Adams writes
to the Chevalier De Onis on the 10th March 1818, that it was
listinctly understood that the grants to Alagon, Vargas and
Punon Rostro, were all annulled by the treaty, as much as if
they had been specifically named, and that they will be so
VOL. VII.-K

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Percheman.]

held by the United States. 1 Ex. Papers, 1st sess. 16th
cong. doe. 2, p. 63.
Mr Adams, on the 14th July 1819, submits to M. De Neuville the following observations on the eighth article " M. De
Neuville's particular attention is requested to the difference
between the two projected articles, because it will recall particularly to his remembrance the point upon which the discussion
concerning this article turned. By turning to the written
memorandum, drawn up by M. De Neuville himself, of this
discussion, he will perceive he has noted that M. De Oms insisted that tls article could not be varied from what was
contained in the chevalier's project, as the object of the last
clause therein was merely to save the honour and dignity of
the sovereignty of his catholic majesty."
It was then observed by Mr Adams, that the honour and
dignity of his catholic majesty would be saved by recognizing
the grants prior to the 24th of January, as "valid to the same
extent as they were binding on is catholic majesty ;" and he
agreed to accept the article as drawn by M. De Ores, with this
explanation. (See M. De Neuvile's memorandum.) It was
on this occasion that VE. De Neuville observed, that, if the
grants prior to Januai 24, 1818, were confirmed only to the
same extent that they were binding on the king of Spain,
there were many bona fide grantees, of long standing, in actual
possession of their grants, and having actually made partial
settlements upon them, but who had been prevented by the
extraordinary circumstances in which Spain had been situated,
and the revolutions in Europe, from fulfilling all the conditions
of their grants, that it would be very harsh to leave these persons liable to a forfeiture, which might indeed, in rigour, be
exacted from them, but which very certainly never would be,
if they had remained under the Spanish dominion. It will be
remembered by M. De Neuville how earnestly he insisted upon
this equitable suggestion, and how strongly he disclaimed for
M. De Onis every wish or intention to cover, by a provision for
such persons, any fraudulent grants. And it was then observed
by M. De Neuville, that the date assumed, of 24th of January
1818, was not sufficient for guarding against fraudulent grants,
because they might be easily antedated. It was with refer-

JANUARY TERM 1833.
(United States v. Percheman.]

ence to these suggestions of M. De Neuville, afterwards again
strenuously urged by M. De Oms, that the article was finally
modified as it now stands m the treaty, declanng all grants
subsequent to 24th January 1818, absolutely null, and those
of pnor date valid to the same extent only that they would
have been binding on the king; but allowing to bona fide grantees, m actual possession, and having commenced settlements,
but who had been prevented by the late circumstances of the
Spamsh nation, and the revolutions in Europe, from fulfilling
all the conditions of their grants, time to complete them. The
terms of the article accom precisely with the intentions of all
the parties to the negotiation, and the signature of the treaty.
If the dates of the grants are subsequent to the 24th of January 1818, they are annulled by the date; if pnor to that date,
they are null, because not included among the prior grants
co4firmed. 1 Ex. Papers, 1st sess. 16th cong. pp. 68, 69.
From all- these documents, the clear inference is, that the
great subject of anxietywith our negotiator was the large grants
to Alagon, Vargas, and Punon Rostro. It was against them
almost alone that the article was directed. The American government, indeed, at one time, proposed to carry the date back
to 1802, by which means they would have excluded the claims.
of Forbes, Arredondo, and others, with whose existence there
is every reason to believe they were perfectly well acquainted.
But this pretension was speedily abandoned. If there appeared
a distinct declaration on the part of the .Aanerican government
that the sole object of the eighth article was to exclude the
grants to Alagon, Punon Rostro, and Vargas, such declaration,
it is apprehended, would be conclusive. It could no longer be
deemed just or honourable to apply the question ordinary and
extraordinary to other.grants, dated before the 24th January
1818, with a view of extorting from them by legal subtlety
something which should debar their proprietors the benefits of
that venry article which was framed solely to admit them, and
to exclude others. Yet, it is respectfully submitted, that no express admission of the fact could be stronger than the implication arising from this correspondence. If, however, an explicit
avowal on the part of our government will alone be received,
we refer to the message of the president to congress, in which

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Percheman.]

he tells that body, "it was the intention of the parties to annul
these latter grants, and ihat-clause was drawn for that express
purpose, and none other."? 1 Ex. Papers, 1st sess. 16th cong.
1819, 1820, doc. 2, p. 5.
May we not ask whether this is the sole purpose to which it
is now sought to be applied, and how far it is consistent with
justice and good faith to extend the effect of the clause in
question beyond what either of the parties contemplated at the
time of its adoption q
The application of the common law principle, that a grant
may be absolutely void where the officer issuing it had no authority, is insisted "on and it is asserted that the royal governors of the. Spamsh colomes had no power to make sales or
donations of the public lands, except in very limited quantities
and under numerous restrictions. An inquiry into the truth
of this assertion willbe attempted, according to the limited
means within our power, and the more readily because of the
intimations thrown out by this court in the cases of Soulard
and Smith. 4 Peters's Reports.
Every fair presumption is against these supposed limitations.
Legal' or constitutional restrictions upon the power of the king
or his officers, according to our ideas of them, are inconsistent
with the character of the Spamsh monarchy. They are hardly
comprehensible by a native of that country, and have been rejected, 'together with the constitutional monarchy, by the people of Spain. How is it possible to ieconcile limitations of
power with the fundamental maxim, "the will of the ptince
has the force of a law "
Portions of the royal authority, as arbitrary as that of the
king himself, were entrusted to the several governors of provinces, each of whom, within the limits of his own government;
was the image of his sovereign, and, in practice at least, and
in popular opinion also, absolute. The only restraints upon
his acts were hisinstructions, and .accountability to the "n.g,
but the royal instructions, and the resuleneza, or account of his
transactions, which the governor was obliged to give, were not
properly legal limitations upor'hs-power, but rather directions
for the exercise of his discretion, and securities for his good behaviouir.

JANUARY TERM 1833.
(United States v. Percheman.]

Every nation has its own manner of securing the fidelity of
its agents. Free governments are constructed upon the pnnciple of enthisting as little power as possible, and providing
against its abuse preventively by all species of checks and limitations. Arbitrary ones proceed upon the-prnciple of bestowing ample powers and .extensive discretion, and guarding
against their abuse by prompt and strict, accountability and
severe punishment. Both have been invented by mankind for
purposes of mutual defence and common justice, but the pervading spirit of the one is preventive, of the other vzndicatory.
How absurd would it be, then, to apply the maxims of the
one government to the acts of the other. As well might we.
judge the life of Pythagoras by the law of the New Testa.
ment, or the philosophy of Zoroaster -by that of Newton,. as
subject the administration of a.Spanfsh governor to the test of
magna charta, the bill of rights,. the habeas corpus act, or the
principles of American constitutional law.
Even the laws of the Indies, obscure, perplexed, and sometimes even unintelligible as they are, hardly reached across
the ocean, and the decline of the Spanish, like that of the Roman empire, was marked by the absolutism of the distant prefects.
Nor were the offices of, captain general, intendant or subdelegate, sinecures. Entrusted with the command and defence
of remote and exposed possessions; often reduced to the greatest extremities, for the want of money and supplies; neglected'
by the feeble government of the mother country, they were
yet expected to guard the colony; .and execute the most
rigorous system of monopoly, amid greedy neighbours and an
impoverished people. They were frequently obliged to create
.their own resources, and-some idea of their difficulties, and
the devotion and address which surmounted them, may be
formed by remembering how long the able but cruel Morilla
protracted a desperate warfare, amid eve ry -snecies of. distress
and destitution.
Their first duty was to preserve his catholic majesty's province, committed to their care, and if they did it, and could
only do it by some invasions of the fisc, or dilapidations of the
royal domain, does it lie with us to complain of their fid.plity to

SUPREME COURT.
(United States v. Percheman.]

him, and vitiate those titles which were devised from a law
Vide White's Land Laws, 235,
above all others-necessity
7 Ex. Doc. p. 2, 1824, 1825. Also, MS. Extracts from Col.
M'Kee's Correspondence.. See also the letter of Gov. Chester
to the Earl of Dartmouth, MS. Letter Book, West Florida,
18th Nov. 1775, p. 34.
This general outline of the treaty, the negotiations which
led to it, the objects of the contracting parties, cannot fail to be
considered by the court in the adjudication of every case presented to it. If it be considered, as it has been proved and
admitted in part in another case decided at the last term, that
the treaty itself operated as a confirmation of every legitimate
and valid title which "emanated from hIs catholic majesty, or
his lawful authorities prior to the 24th of January 1818;" it
only remains to be shown that this was such a title.
Juan Percheman was an officer in the Spanish service at
the period of the invasion of that province in 1812, 1813. He
was referred. to by name in the royal despatch, and this grant
was made m absolute property to him as a remuneration for
his services.
How is it attempted by the government agents to defeat so
just and equitable a claim I The first ground taken is, that
"the copy of the grant is ii6t admissible evidence, but the
orgnal ought to have been produced and proved."
This involves the question, what is a copy, and what an
original, under the Spanish government, as defined by the
Spanish laws. This is a paper certified by the escribano of
government to be a full copy of the petition and decree of the
governor of East Florida. It is, in fact, the original grant.
The petition and decree of the governor are preserved m the
office of the escribano, are placed there in paper books as composing the dilligencias of his office.
These papers never go out, any more than the notes of the
surveyors, upon which a grant issues in the United States.
In this country the original patent, signed by the governor or
president, is delivered to the patentee, and the copy is retained
in' the office. Now, if we are asked why this is so, the answer
is, "ita lex scripta est." It is the law and the custom of Spare
and her provinces,. and it would be as reasonable to ask, why

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[United States -. Percheman.]

has she not adopted the common law of England I The decree of the governor has been certified under his seal of office,
and the seal and signature proved.
Tho second point relied upon by the agents of the United
States, to avoid the confirmation of this grant, is, the court has
not jurisdiction, the claim having been finally settled by the
rejection of the register and receiver.
If the title was confirmed by the treaty, which is the supreme law of the land, the United States have no power to
finally to reject a claim," without an appeal
create a tribunal "1
to this court. Such an act would directly violate the treaty,
and must be considered void.
The decisions of the commissioners and register and receiver
have never been considered final by congress itself. In every
report made since the date of the Louisiana treaty upon claims,
which the commissioners nominally had power to decide, an
act of congress has been deemed necessary to 'consummate the
title.
There is a case in point in the very act relating to the report,
m which it is contended that this claim has been finally rejected.
The first section of the act of congress to confine it, provides,
that all the cases except those subsequent to a certain period,
are confirmed and approved. Here the government agents
have two horns of a dilemma. If the decrees of this register
and receiver, like the laws of the Medes and Persians, are irre.versible, it must operate both ways. It will not do for any
honest government to say it is final when in our favour, aliter
when against us. If the proposition be maintained that a
register and receiver appointed to sell lands, and who were not
selected with reference to -their ability to decide those delicate
legal questions, have been invested with such extraordinary
powers. over the rights of individuals, it will follow of course
that all such as were excluded by congress were inproperly
excluded, and the decision which bars the hope of redress
against this claim will give confirmation to all those rejected.
,A contrary doctrine would involve the absurd consequence of
the-assumption by congress of judicial power, and of its bxercise in, reversing the decisions of a tribunal vested with aitlie-

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Perhelan.]

rity by law to decide in the last resort, or, to use the larigiiagb
of the attorney-general, "finally to decide." The register and
receiver never had such a power, and it was not competent to
congress to confer it without a palpable violation of the treaty.
The register and receiver never had power to decide this case
at all, and consequently could not have rejected it. The cases
which were authorized to be presented to commissioners, divided themselves into two classes, one of which the commissioners decided subject to the approval of congress, and the
other they reported to the secretary of the treasury.
This was regulated by the quantity. The act of 1822 required them to decide clais under one thousand acres, and
report all over that quantity. The act of 1823 increased the
quantity, in certain cases, to three thousand five'hundred acres.
These specified cases were such as where the owners were in
the actual possession and occupation of the land at the date of
the treaty It was intended to give a preference to actual occupants, who have always been deservedly favourites with the
congress of the United States. This was a case in which the
owner, Juan Percheman, was not in possession at the date of
the treaty, and consequently the register and receiver could
only report, and not decide his case. The report was made,
and opposite the name of the claimant with a short note was
In this state this case was presented to
written "rejected."
congress. It is evident that it was not prepared before the
register and receiver. This report was made after the act of
1828. That act disposed of all claims under a league square,
and referred all over that quantity to the courts for decision.
This brings us to the question of jurisdiction in this case.
It is contended that the court cannot take jurisdiction of any
case under a league square. That is admitted under the act
of 1828. This is a very different case. The act of 1830 did
not dispose of these cases. A part were referred by the first
section back to the register and receiver, requiring them to report the evidence. Some were confirmed. This one was
rejected without the power to reject, because it was over one
thousand, and under three thousand five hundred acres, without proof of actual possession. The first section of the act of
1830 disposes of certain Spanish claims. The second, of coft-

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[United States v. Percheman.]

flicting Spanish and British claims. The third, of British
claims. The fourth section provides that "all the remaining
claims which have been presented according to law, and not
finally acted upon, shall be adjudicated and finally settled upon
the conditions, restrictions, and limitations of the act of 1808."
The claim of Percheman was a "remaining claim not finally
acted upon;" because I have shown it could not be finally
acted upon by the register and receiver. It was one of those
which the law declared should be adjudicated upon the pnnciples of the act of 1828. It will be observed by the court,
that this act says nothing about the quantity of lana.
The question then arises, whipch must be decisive of the
point of jurisdiction, do the words "adjudicated and settled
upon the conditions, restrictions and limitations" of another
law, confine the quantity to the amount authorized by that
law I All these relate to the quo =odo of the adjudication.
The conditions are, that they are to file a bill, conduct their
case, &c. The restrictions are, that certain evidence shall be
admitted, and certain dates regarded. The limitations, that
they shall be presented within a certain time. All these relate to the mode of conducting the cases remaining. This is
too plain to require argument.
The third point relied upon by the United States is, that the
land was conveyed by the grantee to F P Sanchez. Whether
this land belongs to Percheman or Sanchez must be perfectly
immateral to the United States. If confirmed to Percheman,
it operates eo instanti as a confirmation to Sanchez. The
attempt to hunt up a deed conditional or absolute, is but an
expedient to avoid the trial of the merits of -the case, in the
favourable decision of which the United States, as a jtst
government, ought to feel as much solicitude as in the performance of the most sacred national obligation. These pleas
in abatement and technical niceties, may serve to retard the
country, impoverish individuals, promote litigation, and .embarrass public justice, at the expense of individual rights and
public faith. They never can receive the sanction or countenance of this court. If the petition had been filed i the name
of Sanchez, and the astuteness of the government agents could
have discovered the point, we should have been thrown out of
VoLe. VII.-L

SUPREME COURT.
[United'States v. Percheman.]
court, because possession is necessary to give validity to a deed,
and because the seal is to the name of the attorney, and not to
that of the grantee. Such a deed conveys no title, and might
have been excluded. The record shows, however, that the
contract was to be void unless the title was confirmed. The
act of congress for 1823, dispenses with the deraignment of
title, and this case is to be decided not only according to "the
treaty," but the "proceedings under the same." That act,
being one of the proceedings under the treaty, dispenses with
the production of deeds froW the grantee; and sub-proprietors
have a right to file their petition in the name of the original
grantee.
The last point made by the attorney-general was, that the
governor had no right to grant. This question has been raised
in every Spamsh case.
Such a point could not have been expected, in the face of
the royal order commanding him to grant to the individual
in question by name. This question was settled at the last
term, and although an attempt has been made to reverse that
decision by a bill in congress, the judiciary committee put the
seal upon it by a unanimous rejection. Upon the subject of
the powers of Spanish governments, the court is furnished with
translations from Soloozano's Politica Indiana. This author
is one of the most celebrated of the Spanish commentators.
His authority was considered unquestionable by lord Ellenborough in the court of lkng's bench, in the trial of The King
v. Picton, governor of Trinidad, 3 State Trials.
Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is an appeal from a decree pronounced by the judge of
the superior court for the district of East Florida, confirming
the title of the appellee to two thousand acres of land lying in
that territory, which he claimed by virtue of a grant from the
Spanish governor, made in December 1815. The title laid
before the district court by the petitioner, consists of a petition
presented by himself to the governor of East Florida, praying
for a grant of two thousand acres of land in the place called
Ockliwaha. situated on the margins of St John's river; which

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[United States v. Percheman.]

he prays for in pursuance of the royal order of the 29th of
March 1815, granting lands to the military who were in St
Augustine during the invasion in the years 1812 and 1818,
to which the following grant is attached.
St Augustine of Florida, 12th of December 1815. Whereas
this officer, the party interested, by the two certificates inclosed,
and which will be returned to him for the purposes which may
be convenient to him, nas proved the services which he ren&ered in the defence of this province, and in consideration also
of what is provided in the royal order of the 29th of March last
past, which he cites, I do grant hun the two thousand acres of
land which he solicits, in absolute property, in the indicated
place, to which effect let a certified copy of this petition and
decree be issued to him from the secretary's office, in orde that
it may' be to hun in all events an equivalent of a title in form.
ESTRAD .

In a copy of the grant, certified by Thomas de Aguilar,
secretary of his majesty's government, the wdrds "which documents will at all events serve hin as a title in form," are
employed instead of the words "in order that it may be to him
in all events an equivalent of a title in form."
The petitioner also filed his petition to the governor for an
order of survey dated the 31st of December 1815, which was
granted on the same day; and a certificate of Robert M'Hardy,
the surveyor, dated the 20th of August 1813, that the survey
had been made.
The attorney of the United States for the district, in his
answer to this petition, states, that on the 28th of November
1823 the petitioner sold and conveyed his right in and-to the
said tract of land to Francis-P Sanchez, as will appear by the
deed of conveyance to which he refers; that the claim, was
presented by the said Francis P Sanchez to the register and
receiver, while acting as a board of commissioners to ascertain
claims and titles to land in East Florida, and was finally acted
upon and rejected by them, as.appears by a copy of their report
thereon. As the tract claimed by the petitioner contains less
than three thousand five hundred acres of land, and had been
reiected hv the register and receiver acting as a board of com.

SUPREME COURT
[United States v. Percheman.]

missioners, the attorney contended that the court had no jurisdiction of the case.
At the trial the counsel for the claimant offered in evidence
a copy from the office of the keeper of public archives, of the
original grant. on which the claim is founded, to the receiving
of which in evidence the attorney for the United States objected, alleging that the original grant itself should be procured,
and its execution proved. This objection was overruled by the
court, and the copy from the office of the keener of the public
archives, certified according to law, was admitted. The attorney for the United States excepted to this opinion.
It appears, fiom the words of the grant, that the original was
not in possession of the grantee. The decree which constitutes
the title, appears to be addressed to the officer of the government whose duty it was to keep the originals and to issue a
copy. Its language, after granting in absolute property, is,
"for the attainment of which let a certified cppy of this petition
and decree be issued to him from the secretary's office, in order
that it may be to him in all events equivalent to a title in form"
This copy is, in c 3ntemplation of law, an original.
It appears too from the opinion of the judge, "that by an
express statute of the territory, copies are to be received in evidence." The judge added, that "where either party shall
suggest that the original, in the office of the keeper of the public archives, is deemed necessary to be produced in court, on
motion therefor a saibpcena will be issued by order of the court
to the said keeper to appear and produce the said oninal for
examination."
The act of the 26th of May 1824, "enabling the claimants
of lands within the limits of the state of Missouri and territory
of Arkansas to institute proceedings to try the validity of their
claims," in its fourth section, makes it the duty of "the keeper
of any public records who may have possession of the records
and evidence of the different tribunals which have been constituted by law for the adjustment of land titles in Missouri, as
held by France, upon the application of any person or persons
whose claims to lands have been rejected by such tribunals or
either of them, or on the application of any person interested,

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[United States v. Percheman.]

or by the attorney of the United States for the district of Missouri, to furnish copies of such evidence, certified under his
official signature, with the seal of office thereto annexed, if
there be a seal of office."
The act of the 23d of May 1828, supplementary to the
several acts providing for the settlement and confirmation of
private land claims m Florida, declares in its sixth section,
that certain claims to lands in Florida, which have not been
decided and finally settled, "shall be received and adjudicated by the judge -f the superior court of the district within
which the land lies, upon the petition of the claimant, according to the forms, rules, regulations, conditions, restrictions and
limitations prescribed by (for) the district and claimants in the
state of Missouri by act of congress approved May 26th, 1824,
entitled "an act enabling the claimants," &c.
The copies directed by the act of 1824 would undoubtedly
have been receivable in evidence on the trial of clamis to lands
in Missouri. Every reason which could operate with congress
for applying this rule of evidence to the courts of Missouri,
operates with equal force for applying it to the courts of Florida,
and-a liberal construction of the act of May 23d, 1828, admits
of this application.
The fourth section of the act of May 26th, 1830, "to provide
for the final settlement of land claims ir'Florda," adopts, almost
in words, the provision which has been cited from the sixth
section of the act of May 23d, 1828.
Whether these acts be or be not construed to authorize the
admission of the copies offered in this cause; we think that, on
general principles of law, a copy given by a public officer whose
duty it is to keep the original, ought to-be received in evidence.
We are all satisfied that the opinion was perfectly correct,
and that the copies ought to have been admitted.
We proceed then to examine the: decree which was pronounced, confirming the title of the petitioner.
The general jutisdiction of the courts not extending to suits
against the United States, the power of the superior court for
the district of East Florida to act upon the claim of the petitioner Percheman, in the form in which it was presented, must
be .specially conferred by statute. It is conferred, if at all, by

SUPREME COURT
[United States v. Percheman.]

the act of the 26th of May 1830, entitled "an act to provide
for the final settlement of land claims in Florida." The fourth
section of-that act enacts "that all the remaining clainis which.
have been presented according to law, and notfinally acted upon,
shall be adjudicated and finally settled upon the same conditions, restrictions and limitations, in every respect, as are prescribed by the act of congress approved the 23d of Mav 18R28.
entitled "an act supplementary," &c.
The claim of the petitioner, it is admitted. "had been presented according to law;" but the attorney for the United
States contended, that "it had been finally acted upon." The
jurisdiction of the court depends on the correctness of the allegation. In support of it, the attorney for the United States
produced an extract from the books of the register and receiver
acting as commissioners to ascertain claims and titles to land
in East Florida, from which it appears that this claim was presented by Francis P Sanchez, assignee of the petitioner, on
which the following entry was made. "In the memorial of
the claimant to this board, he speaks of a survey made by
authority m 1819. If this had been produced, it would have
furnished some support for the certificate of Aguilar. As it is,
we reject the claim."
Is this rejection a final action on the claim, in the sense n
which those words are used in. the act of the 26th of May 1830q
In pursuing this inquiry, in endeavourng to -ascertain the
intention of congress, it may not be improper to review the acts
which have passed on the subject, in connexion with the actual
situation of the persons to whom those acts relate.
Florida was a colony of Spain, the acquisition of which by
the United States was extremely desirable. It was ceded by
a treaty concluded between the two powers at*Waslungton, on
the 22d day of February 1819.
The second article contains the cession, and enumerates its
objects. The eighth contains stipulations respecting the titles
to lands in the ceded teiritory.
It may not be unworthy of remark, that it is very unusual,
even m cases of conquest, for the conqueror to do more than
to displace the sovereign and assume donumon over the country. The modern usage of nations, which h"a become law,

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[United States v. Percheman.]

would be violated, that sense of justice and of right which is
acknowledged and felt by the whole civilized world would be
outraged, if private property should be generally confiscated,
and, private rights annulled: The people change their alleglance, their relation to their ancient sovereign is dissolved
but their relations to each other, and their rights of property,
remain undisturbed. If this be the modem rule even in cases
of conquest, who can doubt its application to the case of an
amicable cession of territoryl Had Florida changed its sovereign by an act containing no stipulation respecting the property of individuals, the right of property in all those who
became subjects or citizens of the new government would have
been unaffected by the change. It would have remained the
same as under the ancient sovereign. The language of the
second article conforms to this general principle. "His catholic
majesty cedes to the United States in full property and sovereignty, all the territories which belong to him situated to the
eastward of the Mississippi, by the name of East and West
Florida." A cession of territory is never understood to be a
cession of the property belonging to its inhabitants. The king
cedes that only Which belonged to him. Lands he had previously granted, were not his to cede. Neither party could
so understand the cession. Neither party could consider itself
as attempting a wrong to individuals, condemned by the practice of the whole civilized world. The cession of a territory
by its name from one sovereign to another, conveying the compound idea of surrendering atthe same time the lands and the
people who inhabit them, would be necessarily understood to
pass the sovereignty only, and not to interfere with private
property. If this could be doubted, the doubt would be removed by the particular enumeration which follows. "The
adjacent islands dependent on said provinces, all public lots
and squares, vacant lands, public edifices, fortifications, barracks
and other buildings which are not private property, archives
and documents which relate directly to the property and
sovereignty of the said provinces, are included in this article."
This special enumeration could not have been made, had
the first clause of the article been supposed to pass not only the
objects thus enumerated, but private property also. The grant

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Perchema].3

of buildings 'could not have been limited by the words "which
are not private property," had private property been included
in the cession of the territory.
This state of things ought to be kept in view when we construe the eighth article of the treaty, and the acts which have
been passed by congress for the ascertainment and adjustment
of titles acquired under the Spanish government. That article
in the English part of it is in these words. "All the grants
of land made before the 24th of January 1818 by his catholic
majesty, or by his lawful authorities, in the said territories
ceded by his majesty to the United States, shall be ratified and
confirmed to the persons in possession of the lands, to the same
extent that the same grants would be valid if the territories
had remained under the domimon of his catholic majesty."
This article is apparently introduced on the part of Spain,
and must be intended to stipulate expressly for that security to
private property which the laws and usages of nations would,
without express stipulation, have conferred. No construction
which would impair that security further than its positive
words require, would seem to be admissible. Without it, the
titles of individuals would remain as valid under the new government as they were under the old, and those titles, so far
at least as they were consummate, might be .asserted in the
courts of the United States, independently of this article.
The treaty was drawn up in the Spaish as well as in the
English language. Both are originals, and were unquestionably intended by the parties to be identical. The Spanish has
been translated, and we now understand that the article, as
expressed in that language, is, that the grants "shall remain
ratified and confirmed to the persons in possession of them, to
the same extent, &c.,"--thus confornling exactly to the umversally received doctrine of the law of nations. If the English
and the Spanish parts can, without violence, be made to agree,
that construction which establishes this conformity ought to
prevail. If, as we think must be admitted, the security of
private property was intended by the parties; if this security
would have been complete without the article, the United
States could have no motive for insisting on the interposition
of government in order to give validity to titles which, according

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[United States Y. Percheman.]

th the usages of the civilized world, were already valid.
No violence is done to the language of the treaty by a construction which conforms the English and Spanish to each
other. Although the words "shall be ratified and confl med,"
are properly the words of contract, stipulating for some future
legislative act; they are not necessarily so. They may import
'that they "shall be ratified and confirmed" by force of the
instrument itself. When we observe that in the counterpart of
the same treaty, executed at the same time by the same parties, they are used in tis sense, we think the construction
proper, if not unavoidable.
In the case of Foster v. Elam, 2 Peters, 253, this court considered these words as importing contract. The Spamsh part
of the treaty was not then brought to our view, and w.e then
supposed that there was no variance between them. We did
not suppose that there was even a formal difference of expression in the same instrument, drawn up in the language of each
party. Had this circumstance been known, we believe it
would have produr.ed the construction which we now give to
the.article.
This understanding of the"article, must enter into our construction of the acts of congress on the subject.
The United States had acquired a territory containing near
thirty millions of acres, of which about three millions had probably been granted to individuals. The demands of the treasury, and the settlement of the territory, required that the
vacant lands should be brought into the market, for winch
purpose the operations of the land office were to be .extended
into Florida. The necessity of distinguishmg the vacant from
the appropriated lands was obvious; and this could be effected
only by adopting means to search out and ascertain pre-existing
titles. This seems to have been the oojuct of the first legislation of congress.
On the 8th of May 1822, an act was passed, "or ascertainmg claims and titles to land within the territory of Florida."
The first section directs the appointment of commissioners
for the purpose of ascertaihing the claims and titles to lands
within the territory of Florid;, as acquired by the treaty of the
22d of February 1819.
VOL. VII.-NM

SUPREME COURT.
Eunited States v. Percheman.]

It would seem from the title of the act, and from this declaratory section, that the object for which these commissioners
were appointed, was the ascertainment of these claims and
titles. That they constituted a board of inquiry,. not a court
exercising judicial power and deciding finally on titles. By
the act " for the establishment of a territorial government in
Florida," previously passed at the same session, superior courts
had been established -in East and West Florida, whose jurisdiction extended to the'trial of civil causes between individuals.
These commissioners seem.to have been appointed for the spe-

cial purpose of procuring promptly for congress that information which was required for the immediate operations of the
land office.

In pursuance of this idea, the second sedtion

directs that all the proceedings of the commissioners, the claims
aamitted, with those rejected, and the reason of their admssion
and rejection, be recorded m a well bound book, and forwarded
to the secretary of the treasury to be submitted to congress.
To this desire for immediate information we must ascribe the
short duration of the board. Their session for East Florida
was to terminate on the last of June in the succeeding year;
but any claims not filed previous to the 31st of May in that
year to be Void, and of none effect.
These provisions show the solicitude of congress to obtain,
with the utmost celerity, that information which ought to be
preliminary to the sale of the-public lands. The provision,
that clains not filed with the commissioners previouh to the
30th of June 1823 should be void, can mean -only that they
should be held so by the commissioners, and not allowed by
them. Their power should not extend to claims filed afterwards. It is impossible to suppose that congress intended to
forfeit real titles not exhibited to their comnssioners within
so short a period.
The principal object of this act is further illustrated by the
sixth section, which directed the appointment of a surveyor
who should survey the country; taking care to have surveyed
and marked, and laid down upon a general plhn to be kept in
his office, the-metes and bounds of the claims admitted.
'The fourth section might seem in its language to invest the
commissioners with judicial powers, and to enable them to de-

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[United States v. Percheman.1

cide as a court in the first instance, for or against the title in
cases brought before them; and to make such decision final if
approved by congress. It directs that the "said commissioners
shall proceed to examine and determine on the validity of said
patents," &c. If, however, the preceding part of the section
to which this clause refers be considered, we shall find in it
almost conclusive reason for the opimon that the examination
and determination they were to make, had relation to the purpose of the act, to the purpose of quieting speedily those whose
titles were free from objection, and procuring that information
which was necessary for the safe operation of the land office,
not for the ultimate decision, which, if adverse, should bind
the proprietor. The part of the section describing the clauns
into the validity of which the commissioners were to examine,
and on which they were to determine, enacts, that every person,
&c. claiming title to lands under any patent, &c. "which
were valid under the Spanish government, or by the law of
nations, and which are not rejected by the treaty ceding the
territory of East ana West Florida to the United States, shall
file, &c."
Is it possible that congress could design to submit the validity of titles, which were "valid under the Spamsh government,
or by the law of nations," to the determnnation of these commissioners 2
It was necessary to ascertain these clains, and to ascertain
their location, not to decide finally upon them. The powers
to be exercised by the commissioners under these words, ought
therefore to be limited to the object and purpose of the act.
The fifth section, in its terms,.enables them only to examine
into and confirm the claims before them. They were authorized to confirm those clais only which did not exceed one
thousand acres.
From this review of the original act, it results, we think,
that the object for which. this board of commissioners was appointed, was to'examine into and report to congress such claims
as ought to be confirmed, and. their refusal to report a claim
for confirmation, wbether expressed by the term "rejected," or
in any other manner, is not to be considered as a final judicial

SUPREME COURT.
(United States v. Percheman.]

decision on, the claim, binding the title of the party; but as a
rejection for the purposes of the act.
This idea is strongly supported by a consideration of the
manner in which the commissioners proceeded, and by an exanimation of the proceedings themselves, as exhibited in the
reports to congress.
The commissioners do -not appear to have proceeded with
open doors, deriving aid from the argument of counsel, as is
the usage of a judicial tribunal, deciding finally on the rights
of parties but to have pursued their inquiries like a board of
commissioners, making those preliminary inquiries which would
enable the government to open its land office; whose inquiries
would enable the government to ascertain the great bulk of
titles which were to be confirmed, not to decide ultimately on
the titles which those who had become American citizens
legally possessed.
On the 3d of March 182:3, congress passed a supplementary
act, which also provided for the survey and disposal of the
public.lands in East Florida. It authorizes the appointment
of a separate board of commissioners for -East Florida, and
,empowers the commissioners to continue their sessions until
the second Monday in the succeeding February, when they
were to return their proceedings to the secretary of the treasury.
This act dispenses with the necessity of deducing title from
the original grantee, and authorizes the commissioners to decide on -the validity of all claims derived from the Spanish
government sn favour of actual settlers, where the quantity
claimed does not exceed three thousand five hundred acres.
The act "to extend the time for the settlement of private land
claims in the territory of Florida," passed on the 28th of February'1824, enacts that io person shall be deemed air actual
,settler, "unless such person, or those under whom he claims
title, shall have been in the cultivation or occupation of the
land, at and.before the period of the cession."
On the 8th of February 1827, congress passed an act extending the time for receiving private land claims in Florida,
and directing them to be filed on or before the 1st day of the
following November, .with the register and receiver of the dis-

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[United States v. Percheman.]

trict, "whose duty it shall be to report the same with their
decision thereon," on or before the 1st day of January 1828, to
be laid before congress at the next Iession.
These acts are not understood to vary the powers and duties
of the tribunals authorized to settle and confirm these private
land claims.
On the 23d of May 1828 an act passed supplementary to the
several acts providing for the settlement and confirmation of
private land claims in Florida.
This act continues the power of the register and receiver till
the first Monday in the following December, when they are to
make a final report, after which it shall not be lavful for any
of the claimants to,exhibit any further evidence in support of
their claims.
The sixth section of this act transfers to the court all clains
"which shall not be decided and finally settled under the foregoing provisions of this act, containing a greater. quantity of
land than the commissioners were authorized to decide, and
above the amount confirmed by this act, and which have not
been reported as antedated or forged," and declares that they
"shall be received and adjudicated by the judge of the district
court in which the land lies, upon the petition of the claimant,
according to the forms,' &c. "prescribed," &c. by act of congress approved May 26th, 1824, entitled "an act enabling the
claimants to rand within the limits of the state of Missoun and
territory of Arkansas to institute proceedings," &c. A proviso
excepts from the jurisdiction of the court any claim annulled by
the treaty or decree of ratification by the king of Spain, or any
claim not presentedto the commissioners or register and receiver.
The thirteenth section enacts that the decrees which may
be rendered by the districtlor supreme court "shall be conclusive between the United States and the said claimants only,
and shall not affect the interests of third persons."
In all the acts passed upon this subject previous to that of
May 1830, the decisions of the commissioners, or of the register
and receiver acting as commissioners, have been confirmed.
Whether these acts affirm those decisions by which claims are
rejected, as-well as those by which they are recommended for
confirmation, admits of some doubt: whether a rejection,

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Percheman.]

amounts to more than a refusal to recommend for confirmation,
may be a subject for senous mquiry however this may be, we
think it can admit of no doubt that the decision of the commissioners was conclusive in no case until confirmed by an.act
of congress. The language of these acts, and among others
that of the act of 1828, would indicate that the mind of congress was directed solely to the confirmation of claims, not to
their-annulment. The decision of this question is not necessary to this case. The claim of the petitioner was not covtamed in any one of the reports which have been stated.
On the 26th of May 1830, congress passed." an act to provide for the final settlement of land claims in Florida." This
act contains the action of congress on the report of the 14th of
January 1830, which contains -the rejection of the claim in
question. The first section confirms all the clanns and titles
to land filed before the register and receiver of the land office
under one league square, which have been decided and recommended for confirmation. The second section confirms all the
conflicting Spanish claims, recommended for confirmation as
valid titles.
The third conflums certain claims derived from the former
British government, and which have been recommended for
confirmation.
The fourth enacts "that all remaining claims which have
been presented according to law, and not finally acted upon,
shall be adjudicated and finally settled upon the saine conditions," &c.
_- ,
It is apparent that no claim was finally acted upon until it
had been acted upon by congress; and it is equally apparent
that the action of congress on the report containing this claim,
is confined to the confirmation of those titles which were recommended for confirmation. Congress has not passed on
those which were rejected. They were, of consequence, expressly submitted to the court.
The decision of the register and receiver could not be conclusive for another reason. Their power to decide did not
extend to claims exceeding one thousand acres, unless the
claimant was an actual settler and it is not pretended that
either the petitioner, or Francisco de Sanchez, his assignee,

JANUARY TERM 1833.
EUnItea States v. Percheman.]

waw - settler, as described in the third section of the act of
1824.
The rejection of this claim, then, by the register and receiver did not withdraw it from the jurisdiction of the cturt,
nor constitute any bar to a judgment on the case according to
its merits.
An objection not noticed in the decree of the territorial
court, has been urged by the attorney-general, and is entitled
to serious consideration. The governor, it is said, was empowered by the royal order .on which the grant professes to be
founded, to allow to each person the quantity of land established by regulation in the province, agreeably to the number
of persons composing each family.
The presumption arising from the grant itself of a right to
make it, is not difectly controverted, but the attorney insists
that the documents thenselves prove that the governor has
exceeded his authority.
Papers translated from a foreign language, respecting the
transactions of foreign officers, with whose powers and authorities we are not well acquainted, containing uncertain and
incomplete references to things well understood by the parties,
but not understood by the court; should be carefully examined
before we pronounce that an officer, holding a high place of
trust and confidence, has exceeded his authority
The objection rests on the assumption that the grant to the
petitioner is founded entirely on the allowance made in the
royal order of the 29th of March 1815, at the request of the
governor of East Florida, and the petition to the governor
undoubtedly affords strong ground for this assumption, but
we are far from thinking it conclusive. The petitioner says,
"that, in yirtue of the bounty in lands which, pursuant to his
royal order of the 29th of March of the present year, -tie king
grants to the military who were of this place in the time of the
invasion which took placein the years 1812 and 1813, and
your petitioner considering himself as being comprehended in
the said sovereign resolution,.as it is proved by the annexed
certificates of his lordship brigadier Don Sebastian Kindelan,
and by that which your lordship thought proper to provide
herewith, which certificates express the merits and services

96

SUPREME COURT.
'[United States v. Percheman.]

rendered by your petitioner at the time of the siege, in consequence of which said bounties were granted to those who deserved them ;" "therefore he most respectfully supplicates
yodr lordship to grant .him two thousand acres'of land in the
place," &c. The governor granted the two thousand acres of
land for which the petitioner prays.
The attorney contends that tb,- royal order of the 29th of
Mardh 1815, empowered the- governor to grant so much land
only, as, according to the established rules, -was allowed to
each settler.. This did not exceed one hundred acres to the
head of a family, and a smaller portion for each member of it'
The extraordinary facts that an application for two thousand
acres should be founded on an express power to grant only
one hundred, that this application should be accompamed by
no explanation whatever; and that the grant should be .made
without hesitation, as an ordinaiy exercise of legitimate authority, are circumstances well calculated: to excite some doubt
whether the real character of the transaction is understood,
-and to suggest the propriety of further examination.
The royal order is founded on a letter from governor Kindelan to the captain-general of Cuba, in which he recommends
the-militia-as: worthy the gifts to which the supreme governor
ihay tin k thei entitled, "taking the liberty of recommendmg the granting of some, which may be as follows to each
officer who has been in actual service m said militia, a royal
commission for each grade he may obtain as provincial, and to
the soldiers a certain quantity of land as established by regulation in this province, agreeably to the number of persons composing each. family, and which gifts can also be exclusively
made to the mramed officers and soldiers of the said third battalion of Cuba."
The words "and which gifts," &c. in the concluding part
of the sentence, would seem to refer to that part which asks
lands for the soldiers of the militia, and yet it is unusual in
land bounties for military service, to bestow the same quantity
on the officers as on the soldiers.
But be this as it may, the application of governor Kindelan
is confined to the privates Who served in the militia, and to the
married officers and soldiers of the third batt4ion of Cuba.

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[United States v. Percheman.]

The petitioner was in neither of these corpq. He was an ensign of the corps of dragoons.
The royal order alluded to? is contained in. a letter of the
29th of March 1815, from the minister of the Indies; who, after
stating the application in favour of the militia, and the third
regunent of Cuba, adds, "at the same time that Ins majesty
approves said gifts, he desires'that your excellency will inform
him as to the reward which the commandant of the third batialion of Cuba, Don Juan Jos6 de Estrada, who acted as governor pro tem. at the commencement of the rebellion, the
officers of artillery, Don Ignacia Salus, Don Manuel Paulin,
and of dragoons, Don Juan Percheman, are entitled to as mentioned by the governor in his official letter. By royal order I
communicate the same to his excellency for your information
and compliance therewith, enclosing the royal commissions of
local militia, according to the note forwarded' by your excellency."
The governor adds, " I forward you a copy of the same,
enclosing also the documents above mentioned, that you may
give their correspondent direction, with the intention, by the
first opportunity of informing his majesty of what I consider
just as to the remuneration before mentioned."
It appeas then that the part of the royal order which is supposed to limit this power of the.governor to grants of one hundred acres does not comprehend the petitioner; that he is.
mentioned in that order as a person entitled to the royal bounty,
the extent of which is not fixed, and respecting which the
governor intended to inform his majesty.
The royal order then is referred to in the petition, as showing
the favourable intentions of the crown towards the petitioner;
not as ascertaining limits applying to him which the governor
could not transcend.
The :petition also refers to certificates granted by gefieral
Kindelan, and by the governor himself, expressing his merits
and services~dunng the siege. These could have no influence
if the amount of the grant was fixed.
In his grant annexed to the petition, the governor says,
"whereas this officer, the party interested by the two certificates
enclosed, has proved thp ;:;9wes whwh he rendered in defence of
VOL. VII.-N

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Percheman.]

this provmnce, and in consideration also of what is provided m
the royal order of the 29th of March last past, 'vhich he cites,
I do grant him," &c.
Military service, then, is the foundation of the grant, and
the royal order is referred to only as showing that the favourable attention of the king had been directed to the petitioner.
The record furishes other reasons for the opinion that the
power of the governor was not so limited in this case, as is supposed by the attorney for the United States.
The objection does not. appear to have been made m the
territorial court, where the subject must have been understood.
It was neither raised by the attorney for the United States, nor
noticed by the court.
The register and receiver, before whom the claim was laid
by Sanchez, the assignee of the present petitioner, did not reject it because the governor had exceeded his power mmaking
it, but because the survey was not exhibited. "If this" (the
survey), say the register and receiver, "had been produced, it
would have furnished some support for the certificate of A-gular. As it is, we reject the claim."
It may be added that other claims under the same royal
order for the same quantity of land, .have been admitted by the
receiver and register, and have been confirmed by congress.
We do not -think the testimony proves that the governor has
transcended his power.
The court does not enter into the inquiry, whetherv the title
has been conveyed to Sanchez or remains in Percheman..
That is a question in which the United States cxn feel no interest, and which is not to be decidea m this cause. It was
very truly observed by the territoral court, that this objection
"is founded altogether on a suggestion of a private adverse
claim -" but adverse claims. uneer tha law giving jurisdiction
to the court, are not to be declded or investigated. The point
has not been made in this court.
The decree is affirmed.

