JANUARY TERM

1q33.

JOHN HOLMES, MICHAEL OMEALY, RICHARD CATON, HUGH
THOMPSON, AND WILLIAM SLATER, APPELLANTS V. DANIEL

TROUT,

WILLIAM MORELAND, WALTER MORELAND,

JERE-

MIAH TROUT, JACOB OVERPECK, AND WILLIAM BUCHANNAN,
APPELLEES.
Questions on the validity of certain entries zf lands i me state of Kentucky.
A survey itself, which bad nf' acquired notoriety, is not a good call for an
entry But when the survey has been made conformable to the entry,
and the entry can be sustained, the call for the survey may support an
entry. The boundaries of the survey must be shown. This principle is
fully settled by the decisions of the courts of the state of Kentucky.
It has been a settled principle in Kentucky that surplus land does notitiate
an entry, and a survey is held valid if made conformably to such an entry.
The principle is well settled, that a junior entry shall limit the survey of a
prior entry to its calls. This rule is reasonable and just.
Until an entry be surveyed, a subsequent location must be governed by its
calls; and this is the reason why it is essential that every entry shall describe with precision the land designed to be appropriated by it. If the
land adjoimng to the entry should be covered by a subsequent location,
it would be most unjust to sanction a survey of the prior entry beyond its
calls, and so as to include a part of the junior entry.
The locator may survey his entry in one or more surveys, or he may, at
pleasure, withdraw a part of his entry. When a part of a warrant is
withdrawn, the rules of the land office require a memorandum on the
margin of the record of the oriwinal entry showing what part of it is
withdrawn.
In giving a construction to an entry, the ntention of the locator is to be
chiefly regarded, the same as the intention of the parties in giving a constriction to a contract. If a call be impracticable, it is rejected as surplusage, on the ground that it was made through mistake; but if a call
be made for a natural or artificial object, it shall always control mere
course and distance. Where there is no object called for to control a
rectangular figure, that form shill be given to the survey.
No evidence can be looked into ih this court, which exercises an appellate
jurisdiction, that was not before the circuit court; and the evidence certified with the record must be considered here as the only evidence before the court below. If, m certifying.a record, a part of the evidence
in the case hadbeen omitted, it might be certified in obedience to a
certiorari; but, m such a case, it must appear.from the record that the
evidence was used or offered to the circuit court.
Under the laws of Kentucky, lhe cancellinig of a deed does not re-invest
the title in the grantor.

SUPREME COURT.
[Holmes and others v. Trout and others.]

APPEAL from the circuit court of the United States for the
district of Kentucky.
In the circuit court, the appellants filed their bill in November 1815,.setting forth a title to ten thousand acres of land
derived under an entry made by Edward Voss, on the 11th of
October 1783, upon which patents duly issued, and charging
that the defendants were in possession of the said lands claimmg title under entries made subsequent to that of Edward
Voss. The bill prayed a discovery, that the defendants may
be decreed to convey to the complainants their respective
claims, -to render possession of the land withheld, and for other
and further relief.
After various proceedings in the case, by amended bills and
otherwise, from 1815, the circuit court, at May term 1829, gave
the following opimon and decree
The complainants state in their bill that "Edmund Voss, on
the 11th day of October 1783, made, with the surveyor of the
proper county, the following location. Edward Voss enters
ten thousand acres by virtue of two treasury warrants, Nos.
8991 and 8990, beginnig at the north west comer of Patton's eight thousand four hundred acres survey; thence, with
Allen's line, westwardly to the river, and. along Roberts's line
on the east for quantity; also, five thousand acres by virtue of
treasury warrant, No. 8989, beginning at the south west comer
of Patton's eight thousand four hundred acres survey, then
westwardly with Patton, Pope and Thomas's survey; thence
up the river, and- on Patton's line on the east, for quantity."
That surveys having been duly executed on said entries, the
same were assigned to a certain Peyton Short, to whom patents
were issued bearing date the 12th and 14th days of March
1790; that, on the 10th day of December 1796, Short conveyed
to John Holmes, by deed, his whole claim to the land in controversy, but that, by contract, it is.
now jointly held by the
said Holmes and the other complainants; and that the above
deed is held for their joint benefit. The complainants further
state that conflicting entries have been made by different persons since taeir location on the same land, and elder patents
-obtained; and they pray that a conveyance may be decreed to
them on the ground of their prior equity. In their answers,

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Holmes and others v. Trout and others.]

the defendants deny the equity set forth in the complainants'
bill, and, having the elder legaltitle founded upon valid entries
and surveys, they pray that the bill may be dismissed. Since
the commencement of the present term, the coniplamants havc
filed an amended bill, stating that the whole of the land in
contest was purchased for the use and benefit of Holmes,
Slater, Caton and: Omealy; and that, subsequently, by the
consent of Caton and Slater, Omealy became their trustee,
that an agreement was entered into between the complainants
and a certain John Breckenridge deceased, by which he
undertook to render certain services, for-which he was to have
one moiety of the land, that the original deed to Holmes, never,
having been recorded, was handed to said Breckdnridge, with
other papers relating to the. business, and with directions to
Short to make a deed to the complainants and Breckenridge;
that the said Breckenridge.was in possession of the deed to
Holmes, and authorized to receive a conveyance from Short to
himself; and the complainants agreed with Short'to cancel the
deed to Holmes, which was done by delivering it to Short, who
cancelled it by erasing his name, and a new deed was .made
by him to Breckenridge, and to William Omealy as trustee
for John Holmes and William Slater, and to Hugh Thompson,
as trustee for Richard Caton, bearing date 21st day of September 1804. The amended bill further states-that Breckenridge departed this life in 1806, before his part of the contract
was performed, and that a bill was filed against his heirs by
the complainants for a re-conveyance of the land; that, on the
final hearing of this case, the court decreed that as Breckenridge had but m part performed his contract, the deed should
be cancelled as to all the lands within two adverse claims, to
wit: that of the defendant-Howard and
Williams or
Brown, ad the complainants were decreed to convey to Breckenridge's heirs one moiety outside of these claims; in pursuance
of this decree, deeds were executed. The complainants state
that the whole of the land in controversy is included in John
Howard's claim, under.which the defendants claim,, and is referred to in the deed from Breckenridge's heirs -to them': and.
that, since the date of such ded,.the equitable title has been
vested in them. To the 4mended bill. .TerermaJ:Tmut,'Maniel

SUPREME COURT
[Holmes and others v. Trout and others.]
Trout, William Buchannan, Jacob Overpeck, John Moreland,
Walter A. Moreland and William Moreland, defendants, answer, that they, with those under whom they claun, have been
in the actual occupancy and peaceable possession of all the
land claimed by them, in their former answers, for upwards of
twenty years before the filing of the amended bill, and they
deny the statements contained in it. On filing the amended
bill, the parties agreed that the suit shoqld progress in the
names of the parties to the record, and that 'no advantage
should be taken on account of the death of either of the parties
since the pendency of the suit; and that the decree should be
as valid as if the heirs of any such party were before the court.
Itwas also agreed that John Howard entered on the land in
controversy, by virtue of his claim of seven thousand nine hundred and forty-five and a half acres, by his tenants, and within
the claim of C. Clarke; that the entry was within the boundary of said Clarke, and that Howard's claim wholly covered
the claim of Clarke, that this entry was made m the year
1804, and continued, without interruption, adverse to the claun
of Voss and Short, set up by the complainants, until thb year
1813,.when Howard, in an action of ejectment, by virtue of
Clarke's claim, was evicted, and possession taken by William
Moreland, deceased, a purchaser from Clarke; and that such
possession was continued by said Moreland until his death, and
that his devisees have remained in the possession adverse to
the complainants ever since. It was admitted that Danel
Trout, deceased, in the year 1808, purchased the claim of
Danel and Hite's six hundred acres within the tract claimed
by complainants, and, at that time, by his two sons, Danel and
Jeremiah, entered into the'possession, which is still continued;
that the defendants, Overpeck and Buchannan, in the year
1818, entered into the possession of the above tract, under the
said Danel and Jeremiah, and have resided on it until the
present time; all of whose possessions are adverse to the complainants. The grant to Danel and Hite is admitted to be
elcer in date than Howad's or any other interfering claim;
Clarke's grant is elder than Howard's, and Short's bears date
after Howard's. As the defendants possess the elder grant,
the complainan:s must rely on their prior equity, and, .o show

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Holmes and others v. Trout and others.]

this, they endeavour to sustain the entry of Voss, under which
they claim. This entry calls to begin at the north.west comer
of Patton's eight thousand four hundred acres- survey, and for
Allen and Roberts line. Patton's entry was made on the
26th December 1782, for eight thousand four hundred acres,
upon a treasury warrant, No. 12,311, about two miles up the
first branch above the Eighteen Mile creek, begmmng at a.
tree marked J. P., to run north five miles, then to extend off
at right angles for .quantity this entry was surveyed on the
20th September 1783, and .calls to begin, at a mulberry, elnand sugar tree, marked J. P., standing on the bank of the first
large creek running into the Ohio aoove the Eighteen Mile
creek, two miles up the said creek. On the 11th October
1783, John Allen entered one thousand acres, part of a treasury warrant, No. 14,198, begmning at the north west"comer
of Patton's eight thousand four hundred acres survey, and
running with his line south two hundred and fifty poles, thence
down the creek on both sides westwardly for quantity, to be laid
off in one or more surveys. Roberts's entry was made on the
26th December 1782, the same day Patton's entry was made.
It is argued by the counsel for the defendants, that Patton's
entry, on which Voss's entry depends, is void for want of certainty and notoriety in its.calls. The depositions of several.
witnesses have been read'to sustain this entry. William Menwether swears that Eighteen Mile creek was known previous
tn the year 1782, and that Patton's creek is the first one runnmg into tb v Ohio above Eighteen Mile creek, except Bell's.
spring branch, which is not much more than a-mile in length';
that Patton's creek was so called'from the time the above entry
was made, and was generally pretty well known by that name
as early as October 1783. He does not recollect the year he
became acquainted with the tree marked .J. P., but he thinks,
within a year or two after the entry was made, he was at the
tree, about two miles up Patton's creek, lacking forty poles, in
company -with persons who were about purchasing Patton's
.entry. The letters J. P were very large, and marked on a
mulberry tree standing near the creek;- that Patton: informed
him of the entryshortly after it was made, and that he had
marked;the tree, and run nne. of the lines before theiutry was

SUPREME COURT.
[Holmes and others v. Trout and others.]
made. He states that, from the appearance of the tree, he
has no doubt of its having been marked at the time as represented by Patton. He further states, he thinks it would be
almost impossible for any person to have searched for the tree
without inding it, after finding the beginning comer of Patton's entry and survey, it would not be difficult, he states, for
a subsequent locator to find Ihe north west corner by tracing
the line, that he has traced this line several times to the corner, on the top of a hill at a sugar tree and two ashes, which
were plainly marked. At the beginning comer of Patton's
survey, the witness states'there was an appeaiance of a large
encampmelit, and several trees were marked, some with the
letters . P., and others with the initials of his own name; and
that the trees about the place were much chopped. Benjamin
Roberts states that he believes Eighteen Mile creek has been
generally known since the year 1780, and that he saw it in
1783, that Patton's creek is the first one of any notoriety running into the Ohio above the Eighteen Mile creek: and itwas
generally known by that name in the spring of the year 1783.
He thinks that a good woodsman, by searching up the creek
agreeably to the calls of Patton's entry, could have found his
beginning corner. Joseph Saunders states that he knew Eighteen Mile creek in June 1780; that Patton's creek is the first
creek of any note above Eighteen Mile creek, and its name
was derived from the entry of Patton. He states that, in May
1783, Patton showed him a mulberry tree marked J. P standig on the bank of Patton's creek, about two miles from the
mouth, and said it was his beginning comer; the letters J. P.
were large, and appeared to have been marked with.a tomahawk; and the witness thinks the tree might have been found
by any one searching for it. Several other witnesses were
acquainted with Patton's entry at an early period, and with its
principal calls, but not until some years after it was made.
No doubt can exist'that the Eighteen Mile creek-was notorious
at the time the entry was made, and that the branch called
for is the one known by the name of Patton's creek; between
this creek and the Eighteen Mile creek there are one or two
small branches, neither of which could be taken for. the call in
the entry- but it is objected to the entry, that the call, "about

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Holmes ad others v..Trout and othersj

two miles up the first branch," is not sufficiently definite to
direct a subsequent locator to the marked tree; that the side of
the creek on winch this tree stands is not designated, nor its
distance from the creek; and that, by actual measurement on
a straight line from the iliouth of the creek, the distance to the
tree falls forty poles short of two miles. It is also contended,
by the calls of the entry, it would seem to have been the intention of the locator that the body of the land should be about
two miles up the creek rather than that point should constitute
Ins beginning comer. This objection seems not to be well
taken, the words of the entry are, James Patton enters eight
thousand, four ihundred acres, &c. about two miles up the first
branch above the Eighteen Mile creek, begmmng at a tree
marked J. P., and .no one, it is believed, could mistake these
calls, or hesitate to. conclude that the tree marked was the beginning comer: from this comer the entry calls to run five
miles north, &c. The rule wnch governs in the construction
of entries has been long fixed, and if this were not the case, it
would obviously result from circunistances. Entries were
made atan early day, by individuals who were more acquainted
with the stratagems of savage warfare than the precision of
language. They were better hunters than critics:- entres must
be construed by the popular signification of the words used,
rather than by the grammatical arrangement of sentences. If
the intention of the locator can be satisfaetorily ascertamed
from the calls of his entry, it must be sustained. The call to
run up the creek, in popular signification, directs the inquirer
to follow the stream: as the Eighteen Mile creek is below
Patton's creek, any person beginning his search at that point
for the marked tree, would trace the Ohio to Patton's creek,
and would naturally seek for the marked treer on the lower
side, about two miles from its mouth, but it would not be unreasonable to require a search on both sides of the creek. Thur
search would somewhat increase the labour of a subsequent
locatpr, but it would scarcely lessen tile probability of finding
the object. No witness saw the tree-when it was marked, but
Menwether saw itone or two years afterwards; and, from the
appearance of the letters J. P., he seems to have no aoubt that
they were made at the tune Patton represented them to have
VOL. VII.-X

SUPREME COURT.
[Efolmes and others v. Trout nd others.]

been made. Saunders saw these letters in 1783, and the tree
was pointed out to. him by Patton, as irs beginning comerthis was within five months after the entry was made, and
several months before the entry of Voss. 'Several witnesses
state that the beginning of Patton's entry could be found by
observing its dscnptive calls. The variation of forty poles, on
a straight line, from the distance called for in the entry, is not
considered very material. The circumstances under which
this entry was made, would authorize no one to expect greater
accuracy" forty poles more or less than the exact distance of
two miles, is a sufciently limited rango for a subsequent
locator. Under all the facts established, the court are of opinion
that the entry of Patton is shown to possess all the requisites
of a valid entry.- this entry was surveyed on the 20th of September 1783, twenty days before the entry of Voss. Voss's
entry calls for the survey of Patton, though it does not appear
at that time to have been recorded, the north west comer of
this survey, which is the beginning called for in Voss's entry.
could easily be found by tracing the line from .Patton's beginning comer; an variation in the length of this line, from the
calls of the entry, cannot be material as to the defendants'
entry, as the distance is controlled by the marmed comer proved
to have been made. The other calls in the entry of Voss are
believed to oe sufficiently certain to enable .the holder of a
warrant to locate the adjacent land, and that is a substantial
compliance with the requisitions of the land law.
The other entry of Voss for five thousand acres, which
calls to begin at the south west corner of Patton's eight thousand four hundred acre survey, contains all the requisites of a
valid entry. To show a title from the patentee, a deed, bearIng date the 10th day of December 1796, from hun to John
Holmes for thirteen thousand five hundred acres, is given in
evidence. The signatmu of the grantor in this deed has been
erased, apparently with the view of cancelling it, but it is contended that, if such an inference can arse from the erasure,
that it does not re-invest the fee in the grantor, that this can
only be done by the solemnities of a deed duly executed. One
of the subscribing witnesses to this deed, whoso deposition is
introduced to prove its execution, states that he waf written

JANUARY TERM 1833.
rHolmes and otners v. Trout and others.]
to by Short, to endeavour to make sales of the land for him,
that, upon being told by Holmes what was the best he could
do with it, the witness advised him to sell it. 6nd told him that
he thought Short Would be satisfied, and the witness understood the land was sold. The witness states that, from his
letter book, this deed appears to have been forwarded by hun
to Holmes, on the 3Bd of January 1797. A letter from Short
to Holmes, dated 29th September 1794, in which he proposes
to sell the lands at a certain price, is read m evidence. This
letter, however, treats Holmes as an agent to sell the land,
and not in the light of a purchaser. An obligation signed by
Short, dated 10th December 1796, isalso in evidence. In this
obligation, Short states that he "has executed a deed to
Holmes, of that date, for two cprtam tracts of land, containing
thirteen thousand five hundred acres, which said deed is deposited in the hands of-W Morton of Lexington, and that,
should Holmes be dissatisfied with the warranty given m said
deed, and it is not in pursuance of the meaning and iztention of
the aboveletter, he agrees to enter into such an instrument of
writing. From the whole of this evidence, it would seem to
authoize the conclusion that the deed executed t. Holmes
was only designed to enable him to sell and make titles to the
lands for the benefit of Short but, if any doubt remained on
the subject, it is removed by a subsequent deed executed by
Short for the same lands, to Holmes and others, without any
reference to the former deed, and by the amended bill of the
complainants, who state that.the first deed was cancelled-by
agreement between Breckenridge and Short, and that they
claim title under the one subsequently executed. The first
deed, though absolute upon its face, was intended to make
H6lmes a trustee ir the use of Short. and the court can have
no difficulty, under the circumstances, in considering it a nullity so far as it relates to the present controversy this deed
has never been recorded, nor does it seem to have been treated
by the parties as'a valid instrumerit. There is no satisfactory
proof of its delivery. From all the facts, it appears most probable, that it was forwarded to Breckenridge by Caton or some
other person, and that it Nwas never in the possession of Holmes,
or intended to be delivered tohiin. By a letter, dated 13th of

SUPREME COURT.
(Holmes and others v. Trout and othersl
January 1803, Holmes, by his trustee Omealy, requested W,
Morton to surrender the deed to Breckenridge, who was authorized to receive a conveyance of the land from Short. The
complainants must rely upon their conveyance from Short,
dated 21st day of September 1804. This deed conveys to
John Omealy, trustee for John Holmes'and William Slater,
and to H. Thompson, trustee of Richard Caton, and to John
Breckenridge, the tracts of land let forth m the bill.
From. the amended bill it appears that Breckenrindge was
entitled to -one moiety of the entire clain as a compensation
for certain services to be rendered by him, that he died before
the services were completed, and that the complainants'filed
their bill against his heirs, and obtained a decree that cancelled the deed to certain parts of the land, which, in pursuance
of such decree, were conveyed by the heirs of Breckenridge to
the complainants. A question is here made by the defendants'
counsel, whether the title set up by the complainants, in their
amended bill, being different from that stated in the original
bill, is not in fact the commencement of a new suit, and, consequently, gives to the defendants a right -to insist on the
statute of limitations in bar to the complainants' right of recovery. If such shall be the effect of the title set forth in the
amended bill, it is agreed between the parties that advantage
may be taken of it. In the'first bill filed, the title is stated
to have been derived from Short, the patentee to Holmes, with
whom contracts were made by the other complainants for certain interests in the land. The amended bill sets up a title,
by deed, from Short to John Omealy, trustee for John Holmes
and William Slater, and to H. Thompson; as trustee for Richard Caton, and to John Breckenridge. Between these den,vations of title m law there is an essential variation, but not m
equity. The equitable interests of the parties may be the
same under both deeds. in 'the first bill, the complainants
state that, although .the title was acquired, and is held by
Holmes from Short, yet, by contracts with said Holmes, the
estate is their joint property, and that Holmes held it for thalr
use such an alteration in this bill, as to state the deed to have
been made by Short to the complainaits instead of to Holmes
does not-change the complainants' equity, and cannot be con-

JANUARY" TERM 1833.
tHolmes and others v. Trout and others.]

mdered as the institution of a new suit. The case is however
different, so far as it 'respects the interest of the complainants
under the decree against the heirs of Breckenridge. A- conveyance from them to the complainants of a part of the land
conveyed by Short to their ancestor, was decreed on the grouhd
that the consideration had, in part, failed. Breckenridge died
before the services he agreed to render were fully performed.
In the deed to him there was no reservation or condition. It
was only by the aid of a court of chancery that the right bf
the coiplamants would be established and enforced against d'
part of the land, Until the decree which cancelled the deed
was pronounced, the" complainants possessed no claim, in law
or equity, to the land in question, which could be rendered
effective against the clamr- of the defendants. To the decree,
therefore, must the complainants look for the origin of their
claim to the land.
This decree was obtained in November 1822, and, for the
first time, a claim is set up under it in the amended bill. Under the bgreement of the parties, this part of the bill must be
considered as the substitution of a distinct -ight, essentially
different from any pretence of claim contained in the first bill,
and, consequently, cannot be considered m a more favourable
point of view, as to the statute of limitation, than the assertion
of the same right m a-bill filed at the present term. It will
follow, therefore, that the title to the land conveyed to the
complainants, under the decree against the heirs of treckenridge -, so far as it covers the land which has been occupied
by the defendants, and those - under whom they claim, adversely to the complainants, for twenty years before the filing
of the amended bill, in law and equity, is vested in the defendants. The balance of the tract claimed by the defendants
within th6 entry of Voss, must be relinquished to the complainants, as they hold the prior equity. The interfering
claims will limit Voss to the calls of his entry, but the surveys
are not protracted'in such a manner as to enable the court
satifactorily to designate the boundaries of the parties as fixed
by this decision. Unless, therefore, the parties, from their
local knowledge of the land, shall be able to lay down the in,
terferences, it may be necessary to direct a survey.

SUPREME COURT.
[Holmes and others . Trout and others.]

And afterwards, to wit, on a subsequent day of the term
and year last aforesaid; to wit, the May term 1829, the court
do order and decree that Jonathan Taylor, surveyor of Oldham county, do lay off the land in controversy, by beginning
at James Patton's north west comer, designated on the connected plat, and lay down James Allen's entry of one thousand
acres, runmng from said comer with patent line, south two
hundred and fifty poles, and at rght angles for quantity, and
also lay down said entry by running from the base line, so that
the lower line will cross Barebone creek the same distance
that the base line crosses it from Patton's northwest comer
of said Allen, with said lines, parallel to the several courses of
the crees, within the said Allen's survey, when so made; and
if Barebone will not be included within the survey of Allen,
when so made, the survey will be so vaned as to make the
creek pass out of the lower end of the survey as near to the
point of distance that strikes the upper line as the general
course of the stream within the survey will admit, to include
both side§ of the stream. That he then lay down John Roberts's entry, by running the first line thereof six miles paral.
lil to the general course of the Ohio river, from where a due
west line from Patton's comer to the river will strike it, to a
point six miles on said river when reduced to a straight line,
that he then lay off Voss's entry of ten thousand acres by first
running a due west line to the river, and, on the course of
Roberts's line, until the quantity of ten thousand acres of land
ig obtained, and then the course of Allen's west line, when
laid down parallel to Barebone, until it strikes the river, and
then up the river, and with the course of Roberts's line as before directed. And that he then ascertain, by metes and
bounds, the interference between the complainants' entry,
when surveyed in each position, and the defendants' surveys.
And the court do further order and direct that the surveyor
aforesaid survey and lay down the said claims in any or additional positiolis which either party may direct, and make report
to the court, to enable the court to make a final' deree.
Afterwards, at May term 1830 of the circuit court, the following final decree was given by the court
"The surveyor having made his report in pursuance to the

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Holmes and others v. Trout and others.]

interlocutory decree of this court, the court do decree and order
that the defendants, John Moreland, William Moreland, and
Walter Moreland, convey to the compiamants, with special
warranty, one half or moiety of so much of Christopher
Clarke's survey of four hundred acres, as is included within
the line designated on the surveyor's report by the letter C,
and figure 2, and the original lines of Clarke's survey below or
south of said link. And the court do further decree and order
that the said defendants and complainants make partition of
the same, and that the said Jonathan Taylor, the surveyor,
divide and partition the same as nearly equal in quantity and
value as is practicable, and that he report to this court, for
their approval, the metes and bounds of the moiety allotted to
the complainants. And the court do further decree and order
that the said defendants, John Moreland, William. Moreland,
and Walter Moreland, pay to the complainants their costs
herein expended. And the court do decree and order that so
much of the bill as seeks redress against the'defendants within
the claim of Daniel and Hite, to wit, Daniel Trout, Jeremiah
Trout, Jacob Overpeck, and William Buchaunan, be dismissed,
and that the complainants pay to them their costs. Aid the
court do order and decree that the suit, as to the other defendants named in the bill, be continued."
From this decree the complainants appealed to this court.
The case was argued by Mr Wickliffe, for the appellants,
and by Mr Loughborough, for the appellees.
Mr Wickliffe, for the appellants.
This is an appeal from a decree of the circuit court of the
United States, for the district of Kentucky. The history of the
case is accurately detailed in the opinion of the court, so far as
that detail is given.
The decree recites the entries relied on accurately. They
are as follows viz.
December 26th, 1782. James Patton enters eight thousand
four hundred acres upon treasury warrant No. 12,511, about
two miles up the first branch, above the Eighteen Mile creek.

SUPREME COURT.
[Holmes and:others v. Trout and others.]
Beginning at a tree marked J. P and to run north five miles,
then to extend off at right angles eastwardly, for quantity.
December 26th, 1782. John Roberts enters ten thousand
acres on treasury warrant No. 14,224. Beginning at the upper
comer next the river of James Patton's entry of eight thousand
four hundred acres, and to run parallel with the river six miles,
then off at right angles eastwardly for quantity.
October 17th, 1783. James Allen enters one thousandacres, part of treasury warrant No. 14,198. Beginning at the
north west comer of James Pattons eight thousand four hundred acres, survey, and running. with his line south two hundred and fifty poles, thence down the creek on both sides westwardly for quantity. To be laid off in one or more surveys.
October 11th, 1783. Edward Voss enters ten thousand
acres by virtue of two treasury warrants Nos. 8991 and 8990.
Beginning at the north west comer of Patton's survey of eight
thousand four hundred acres; thence with Allen's line westwardly to the river; thence up the river, and along Roberts's
line on the east, for. quantity.
Patton's survey bears date the 20th day of September 1783,
and calls to begin at a mulberry, elm and sugar tree marked
I. P standing on the bank of the first large creek; thence north
one thousand six hundred poles, comerng at a sugar tree and
two ashes, on the top of a hill, &c.
Of the validity of the entry of Voss, scarcely a rational doubt
can be entertained. Patton's survey was, in fact, made before
the date of the entries of Allen and Voss, and is most remarkable for its description. It not only gives the beginning given by
the entry, and the course of the first line and the comer trees,
but describes the comer as standing on "the top of a hill." The
court of appeals of Kentucky has in numerous cases decided,
that in searching for the survey, the locator is bound to notice
the entry on which the survey is founded, viz. Galloway v.
Neale, 1 Bibb's Reports, 139; Ward and Kenton v. Lee, 1 Bibb,
27, Johnson v. Marshall, 4 Bibb, 134, Findlay v. Granger, 2
Marshall's Reports, 181, Moore v. Dodd, 1 Marshall, 144,
Thubalds v. Fowler, 3 Marshall, 579; Rerpass v. Arnold, Hardin, 116.
The circuit court has reasoned so well on the notoriety and

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Holmes and others v. Trout and others.]

Mclintity of the entry, that it would seem a waste of time to
repeat. in substance, what has been said by them. Indeed, it
is believed that before a. court acquainted with the rules of decision in Kentucky, a controversy on the validity of Voss's entry
would never have been ralsed, but for the opinion of the court
of appeals in the case of Merrwether v. Davige, 2 Littel's
Reports, 38, where the court decided that the objects called for
in Patton's entry had not been established, and that consequenoy, Merriwether, who depended on Roberts, who depended
on Patton, must fail against the elder patent of Davige. But
a recurrence to the evidence of that case and this, will show an
entirely different state of proof. Besides, Voss and Allen call for
the surveyas actually made; whereas, Memwether calls merely
for the entry, without the aid of the survey
Taking it therefore as granted, that Voss's -entry is fully
established, we shall proceed to examine such parts of the controversy as we think require the revisiohi of this court.
The first point we will notice in which we think the court
erred, is that in which they decide the complainants have no
equity beyond the quantity of eight thousand five hundred
acres, because the survey, on its face, purports to contain but
that quantity. This error has arisen, it is presumed, from an
idea that the survey.purpord" to survey a part, and not the
whole entry, and that the balance of the warrant was, or might
have been re-surveyed. Upon no other view of the case, can
the decree be sustained. A reference to the survey, however,
will show that the surveyor purports to survey the entire entry,
and the entry purports to locate the entire wan'ants. Both
survey and entry recite the Nos. 8990 and 8991, and that in
the salne words,-and neither survey nor entry expresses, to appropriate a part of. these warrants. The warrants do, in fact,
contain ten thousand acres, and the entry purports to embrace
ten thousand acres. The business of~the surveyor was to survey the location according to its locative calls, and he proceeded
to -do so, but according to his calculation, the entry only
embraced eight thousand five hundred acres of land, and he
reports a survey on the entry and warrants as only containing
eight thousand five hundred acres, when in fact it embraces
more than ten thousand, for which the commonwealth made
VOL, VII.-Y

186

-SUPREME COURT.
[Holmes and others v. Trout and others.1

her grant to Voss. By law all the lands within the bouncds
of the grant as marked, passed, and where patent calls differ
from the boundary as to quantity, in every case of the klnd
from the foundation of the state, the Kentucky courts have
held the grant to be good'for the whole quantity embraced by
the bounds, and not confined to the quantity expressed in the
grant. In the old case of Beckley v. Ransdale, Printed Decisions, 107, the court of appeals of Kentucky assigns unanswerable reasons why the marked boundary, and not the paterit
calls, where they differ as to course or distance, shall prevail,
to wit: the unevenhaess of grounds, and the mistakes of surveyors. This case, more than any other now remembered,
illustrates and verifies what the court there assigns, as good
reasons for departing from the face of the patent and adhering
to actual boundary. Voss had ten thousand acres of land
warrants-he made an entry. on the whole warrants for ten
thousand acres, and employed the surveyor to run out his entry
The surveyor does so, and reports that owing to the course of
the river, there is but eight thousand five hundred acres of land
m the entry. Such was the result of his mensuration and his
calculations. Voss takes his patent, but when he has a fair
calculation made, his entry holds out full ten thousand acres,
as likewise does his patent. Now all that is required to succeed in a land contest zn Kentucky, is, that the complainant

show a valid- entry, survey and patent, unless the defendant show
an elder special entry. Voss had a valid entry (say the court)
for all the land in contest. Voss's survey and patent cover his
entry, and all the land in contest. Well, why does he not
succeed? Simply because an ignorant surveyor, in making
his estimate of the number of acres within the entry, committed
the gross error of estimating his survey, containing full ten
thousand acres, to contain only eight thousand five hundred.
This mistake was not through the fault of Voss or his alienees,
nor should it prejudice them. Certainly the defendants cannot
complai-their entries are good for nothing, and they surveyed.on the face of Voss's special entry. They were bound
to know they were in Voss's special entry, and equally bound
to notice that Voss had, by actually meeting and bounding is
survey, surveyed them in, by virtue of his entry. Here, we

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Holmes and others v. Trout and others.]

ask, had not Voss a special entry and survey for the land in
contest, and has not his alienee, Short, obtained in virtue
thereof a patent? The answer must be yes! When this is
granted, we hold that Voss has manifested the best equitable
right to the whole ten thousand acres in controversy.
The next point to be considered in which we think the court
erred, is the manner in which they have directed Allen's land
to be laid down. It is a settled principle, of decision in the
courts of Kentucky, that wherever the courts can, without
doing violence to the other calls of the entry, they will decree
it to be surveyed m a rectangular form. Hite v. Harrison,
Hughes's Reports, 15; Smith v. Grimes, Hughes's Reports, 18;
Kennedy v. Payne, Hardin's Reports, 10; Moore v. Harris,
Printed Decisions, 27, Black v. Bolts, 1 Bibb, 96, Pribblq v.
Vanhooser, 2 Bibb, 120, and numerous others. Allen calls to
begin at Patton's, north %vestcorner of his survey, and run with
ns line south two hundred and fiftypoles, thence down the creek
westwardly for quantity, &c. Tie definite article has referelice
to no creek specified either in Patton's or Allen's entry, and can
be supposed to refer to Bare-Bone creek, only because that is
found to be crossed by his line of two hundred and fifty poles
along Patton's north and south line. The question then arises,
is the call to run down the creek on both sides a call of general
description or special location? Certainly not the latter. Suppose no other call to have been made than down the creek,
where would you attach the entry ! Why, to no creek or place
whatsoever. And shall a call of general description, which
cannot fix an entry without a special call, govern or control
such special call? We say not, and we believe it to be the
invariable rule of decision in Kentucky See Swearingen v.
Smith, 1 Bibb, 92, Black v. Bolts, 1 Bibb, 96, Burk, &c. v.
Toodd, &c., I Bibb, 67, Shannon v. Buford, 2 Bibb, 117, and
numberless .others. Where the entry calls to begin at the
mouth, head or other point on a stream, and to embrace such
stream, there we admit' such stream becomes locative, and no
longer merely descriptive, but here Allen makes his entry and
has but two locative calls: first Patton's line, and to run south
two hundred and fifty poles. Had he stopped here, his entry,
according to the case of Lancaster v. Pope, and the case of

SUPREME COURT
[Holmes and others v. Trout asd others.]
Merriwether v. Phillips, 5 Littel's Reports, 182, would have
been void for uncertainty, because he did not state Whethel ne
would ailgl up or down, east or west. He had fixed his base,
and then says, he will run down the creek on both sides. Had
he stopped, he might have been supposed to have made the
call fbr the creek locitive, but he could but perceive the probability of runnimg north, south, east or west on such a stream,
and to explain what he meant, and to govwm his call for the
creek, he added "westwardly for quantity."
The courts of Kentucky uniformly make calls for westwardly
or southwardly, mean west or south. Bradford v. M Clelland.
Hughes, 104, Craig v. Hawkins, 1 Bibb, 53, Clark and Oscar
v. Stribbing, 1 Bibb, 122. In this entry west gives right angles
to the base line, and every call m the entry locative or descriptive, will, be complied with. The land will lie between parallel
lines, and embrace a rectangular form, and lie on both sides of
the creek. We think, therefore, the court erred in not adoptihg the line I. B. as the base of Voss's' entry, instead of the line
I. A. Indeed, the experimental survey returned m the cause,
shows that to make Bare-Bone a locative calli w6uld be to
give Allen the most ludicrous figure imaginable-that from
the course of the stream, it is inpossible to hypothecate lines
parallel to each other, whioh will embrace the stream.
The court itself has abandoned its own decree in gi ing
directions how to lay down Allen's survey. As they have at
last fixed it, the south boundary cuts the creek, and thelcreek
runs from thence nearly south. Now it is mnpos~ible to conceive how the. court can arbitrarily depart from both the creek
and west point, .and fix on the p6int 60 W., except.that
they found the call to embrace the creek in equal lines unpossible, and that the entry, pursuing the idea that the creek was
tobe in the centre, would exhibit an absurd figuie with serpentine lines, to correspond to he serpentine windings of -the
stream. In attempting to do which, part of the survey would
be west, and a part run south. Supposing it then to be a locative call to run on both sides of the creek from the base of two
hundred and fifty-nine poles, what did'the uniform current of
decisions in Kentucky declare should be done I Why, that the
court should reject the absurd calls, and calls impossible to be

JANUARY-TERM 1833.
[Holmes and nthers v. Trout and others.]

complied with, ana survey the. entry as if they were not in it.
See Bosworth v. Maxwell, Hardin's Reports, 209, Pauling v.
Memwether's heirs, Hughes. 14. Consilla v. Briscoe, Hughes,
45; Ldnton. v. M'Connell, Hughes, 162, Prebble v. Vanhooser,
2 Bibb, 121, &c. &c. And that would be to run Allen two
hundred and fifty poles south, and at fight angles west -for
quantijy. Whether therefore we consider the call for. "down
the creek" as descriptive or locative, the result will be the same,
and a plain practicable mode of surveying both Allen and Voss,
presents itself to the mind of every one.
These errors examied, another presents itself, which we
hope will appear equally.obvious. It is so much of the decree
as gives a moiety, instead of the whole land covered by the complamants' survey and patent. The court have proceeded on
the idea that, to enable a party to maintain a bill in equity
against an adverse title, the complainant should have a coinplete legal title. This has been repeatedly overruled by the
appellate court of Kentucky. All they have required is, that
the complainant shall have the entire title either before suit or
before final decree. In numerous cases the persons holding
the equity have been allowed to sue on an executory contract,
their vendors and the adverse climant. All the courts have
required is, that the complainant shall show a clear equity to
the thing, by grant or bringing his trustee into court. In the
old cases of Thompson and Blair, where the complainant
showed no pateht, the court of appeals allowed the inferior
court to give time to complainant to obtain a grant, and decided that if he did, to decree him the land, and if he did not
obtain the patent, to dismiss his bill. As to a legal title 'there
can be but one, and defendants had that one. The commonwealth had granted the land to the grantors of the defendants,
and the grant to Short conveyed no title whatever. It .was,
according to the opinion of this court, in the case of Elmendorf
and others v. Taylor and others, 10 Wheat. 152, void, the
commonwealth havingpreviously granted all the title held to
the fitst patentee. All the reason ever assigned- in Kentucky
for the production of the patent, was that the complainant may
thereby show-he complied with the law, paid the fees &c.,
that his equity was permanently fixed to the thing, not *ith-

SUPREME COURT.
[Holmes and others v. Trout and others.]

drawn, or liable to be withdrawn, as is the case after survey
an4 patent. The whole reasoning resolves itself into this,
that the equitable claimant is he who ought to have the title
held by another. Now, Omealy claims to be such. but the defendants allege the deed of Short to Breckenridge-not that it
conveyed a legal title, for that was in themselves, but as evidence, the-equitable title as to a moiety was not in complainants. To this complainants reply, Breckenridge's title is an
inequitable one. He bought from us, but has failed to pay the
consideration. Now, in such a case, what More could the
defendants or the court require of complainants, than to show
they held the entire equity as they alleged. This they could
do in various ways. 1. By making Breckenrdge's heirs parties. 2. By a separate suit (as they have done) get back the
deed of the heirs of Breckenridge before trial.
Equity considers that as done, which ought to have been
done. The record clearly shows that John Breckenridge had
no equitable claim to the land in contest, and that he or his
heirs should have released it. Considering that as done which
ought to have been done, how stands the caseI The complainants, who allege themselves to-be the entire owners of the
equity growing out of Voss's entiy, sue the defendants for the
whole, and not a moiety, and on the trial not only show that
they were purchasers of the equity from Short, and that Breckenridge was their mere agent to be rewarded with part of the
land, but also produce the release of Breckenridge's heirs.
Suppose Breckenridge's heirs had been made parties, and no
release by them executed until the final decree, surely no doubt
could eiist as to the complainants' clain to a decree against
defendants. Can equity nake a distinction between such a
case, and the one before the court I
'Should the court, however, consider the complainants as
only acquiring an equity on the 25th day of May 1826, when
the deed of release was executed to them by Breckenridge's
heirs, then according to no principle can the complainants be
barred by time. Those claiming under Hite and Daniel did
not settle until 1808, Howard did not settle until 1804, and
when Howard entered, the complainants resided out of the
state. Of course, according -to a well settled principle of law,

JANUARY TEIM 1833.
Efolmes and others v. Trout and others.]

the statute did not begin co rnu util they all came into this
state. See 2 Digest of the Statutes of Kentucky, 861, and
Graves v. Graves, executors, 2 Bibb's Reports, 207. John
Breckenndge is admitted to have died in 1806 or 1807, leaving
his children all minors except one, and that a feme covert, and
one of them, William Breckenudge, only three years old. As
the seven years act could not run against their equity until
all became of age, and William -did not until 1824, this
time,, by the direction of this act, must be deducted. See
2 Digest of the Statutes of Kentucky, 806, May's Heirs v.
Bennet, 4 Littel's Reports, 311, Kennedy's Heirs v. Duncan,
Hardin's Reports, 365. This act went into operation in 1816,
and has no relation to the possession before John Breckenndge's death.
As the complhinants acquired the deed m- 1826, and filed
their amended bill in 1829, alleging that fact, the seven years
act must be thrown out of the question. Our suit for the
whole land was depending, and the entire title set up in the
yeat 1815. Now suppose the papers that relate to the controversy with Breckenridge, not to manifest the. complainants'
equity prior to the- decree in their favour. That decree was
made in-1822, within eighteen years after Howard's entry on
the land, and within fourteen years after the entry of Trout
under Danel and Hite. As we alleged an entire equity,
surely all the court can require of us is to show, before the
twenty years had run, the evidence of that equity The papers
fied as exhibits were read without objection, as was the depo.
sition of Moreton. The papers and letters show the original
nature of our clam,, and Moreton's deposition shows that it
was taken in the suit of complainants against Breckenridge's
heirs in the year 1816, -and the decree is entered in 1822, settling the equity in the property to be in the complainants, and
a release is produced before the hearing of the cause.
It is thererore contended that the honourable the circuit court
erred. 1. In limiting the recovery to eight thousand five hundred acres of land. 2. In the manner in which they directed
Allen's entry to be surveyed. 3. In deciding thaf as to a; moiety
of complainants' equity, they were barred by the statute of
limitation of twenty years.

SUPREME COURT.
[Holmes and others v. Trout and others.]

Mr Loughborough, for the appellees.
This is a case of conflicting land claims. The bill of
Holmes and others, filed November 23, 1815, sets up title as
follows, viz.
Edward Voss's entry for ten thousand acres, October 11,
'1783.
Survey of eight thousand five hundred acres of said entry,
February 16, 1789.
Assigpment of certificate of survey to P Short, and patent
to him of March 16, 1790.
Conveyance by Short to Holmes, December 10, 1796, a]leged to'be for the benefit of the other complainants.
The~bill alleges that the defendants are in possession of the
land under illegal entries, surveys and patents, and prays that
they may be compelled to surrender the land, and release' their
claims.
The defendants, Daniel and Jeremiah Trout, Jacob Overpeck and William Buchannan, severally answer and show
title under a grant older than complainants' survey and patent,
issued to Daniel and Hite for six hundred acres.
The defendants, the -Morelfands, jointly answering, show
title under a grant to Christopher Clarke for four hundred and
fifty acres, also older than the survey and patent upon which
.complainants rely.
The defendants also say, that- although the boundaries of
complainants' survey of eight thousand five hundred acres as
made, do include their possessions, yet that it was illegally
made to include too much land, and that a survey made to
begin at the beginning corner of Voss's entry, will give complainants the quantity of eight thousand five hundred acres
named
in their patent, without interfering with the defendants.
In May
1829 the complainants filed an amended bill, setting
fprth, that hating engaged John Breckenridge to investigate
their claims in Kentucky for one moiety thereof, they gave
him the deed of December 10, 1796, from Short, which was
cancelled, and anew deed taken from Short, dated September
21,1804, to complainants and Breckenridge in equal moieties
that the title tQ the moiety of the land in controversy, vested in
Breckenridge by the last aforesaid deed, has been reconveyed

JANUARY TERM 1833.
.Holmes and others v. Trout and others.]

to the complainants under decree of court of June 16, 1824,.the
deea of the commissioner bearing date May 23, 1826.
To this amendment the defendants respond, that they have
been in the adverse possession of the land twenty years previous to its.being filed, and rely upon the bar by lapse of time.
The court decreed the entry under which complainants
claimed a valid one-that. they were entitled to eight thousand five hundred acres, the quantity named m their survey
and patent, and that the defence, resting upon twenty years
adverse possession by the defendants, -was a bar to so much of
the right asserted by the complainants, as was derived to them
from Breckenridge's heirs.
A survey-having been made under order of court, it appeared
therefrom that complainants' eight thousand five -hundred
acres being surveyed from the beginning of Voss's entry, running with the calls thereof, the defendants D. and J. Tiout,
Overpeck and Buchannan, were not included therein, but the
Morelands were. The bill was therefore dismissed as to the
first named defendants, and the Morelands decreed to surrender one half of their land.
The complainants, not satisfied, have appealed.
For the appellees, it will, in the first place, be contended,
that the entry of Voss is invalid.
This entry calls to begin at the north west corner of Patton's
survey of eight thousand four hundred acres, without any
general description, leading a subsequent locator into the
neighbourhood of the land intended to be appropriated, and
without showing where Patton's.survey is to be found. It is,
in this respect, defective. See Matson v. Hord, 1 Wheat. 130;
Johnson v Pannel's Hdirs, 2 Wheat. 206., M'Dowell v. Peyton etal., 10 Wheat. 454, 1 Bibb, 22, 122, 2 Bibb, 107, 142.
Patton's survey was made 20th September 1783, on an entry dated 26th December 1782. As the entry of Voss depends
upon Patton's entry, in the absence of any proof of the identity
and notoriety of the lines and comers of Pattod's survey, it'is
incumbent upon the complainants to establish the latter entry.
In Meurwether v. Davidge, 2 Littel, 38, the court of appeals of Kentucky held this entry of Patton mvalid.
The descriptive calls of- this entry are -not shown to have
VOL.

II.-Z

SUPREME COURT
[Holnes and others v. Trout and others.]

been sufficient, at the time it was made, to lead a subsequent
locator into the neighbourhood of the lpmd.
The proof is not sufficient to show, that the marked tree
claimed as the beginning of Patton's entry, was m fact marked
before or at the time of making the qhtry. The legal right of
the defendants should not be made to yield to a doubtful equity.
The court will require the prior equity to be unquestionablestablished. Cleland's Heirs v. Gray, 1 Bibb, 35.
The only witness whose testirony approaches to proof on
this point is Merriwether, who was interested in the establishment of this entry in the state cqiirt. A year or two after the
entry was made, he saw a marked tree that might answer for
the begimng of Patton's entry, and which tree, he supposed,
was the same that Patton said he had marked as his beginning-for Patton was not in company with him. From the
appearance of the tree his opznzon was, that it was marked as
early as the date of the entry
Sanders says, that in May 1783, Patton showed him a mulberry tree marked plainly with the letters J. P and told him
it was the beginning corner of his entry. Other persons were
in company with Merriwether, whose testimony is not taken.
From the present existence of artificial objects, then" existence at the date of an entry cannot be presumed. 3 Bibb, 126,
4 Bibb, 158. See a case of an entiy held invalid upon proof
like this, in Humphievs v. Lewis, 4 Monroe, 337, also Miller's
Heirs v. Haw's Heirs, Hardin, 30.
Patton's entry does not state what species of tree was marked, nor on what side of the creek it is, nor how far from it.
The beginning claimed is forty poles short of two miles from
the mouth of the creek. The locative calls are too indefinite,
when we consider the nature of the object assumed as the beginning-a tree in the forest. Full proof of the identity of this
tree, and that it could, at the date of the entry, be identified
by others, is essential. Such proof is not here.
The call "about two miles up the branch," though it might
perhaps be sufficient in a case where the object at the termination of the distance is unusual or conspicuous-such us will
arrest the attention of a woodsman-will not be deemed-,good
in this case. Throw out the word "about" and an exte~isve

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Holmes and others v. Trout and others.)

circuit of forest would have to be minutely searched to find a
marked tree forty poles from the termination of a two mile
line.
This court will look into the case of Mernwether v. Davidge,
2 Littel, 38.
If the entry of Patton shall be established, we next come to
ihat of Voss, immediately in controversy.
This calls for the north west comer of Patton's survey of
eight thousand four hundred acres, which survey was made
September 20, 1783, only twenty days before the entry of Voss.
Patton's survey was not of record, and therefore no notice
to subsequent locttors. Key v. Matson, Hardin, 70; Elmendorff v. Taylor, 10 Wheat. 152, Carson v. Hanway, 3 Bibb,
160.
Making a survey is not an act of notoriety m the country,
and locators who adopt surveys as the foundations of their
claims, must-prove that they could have been found with reasonable inquiry. 1 Bibb, 7, 35, 39, 63, 139; 2 Bibb, 113, 135.
There is no proof in this cause, that at the time of Voss~s
entry t!e lines and-corners of Patton's su vey were marked at
all, much less that they were subjects of general reputation
and notqnety. They shodld have been notorious. 1 Bibb,
39 and 1373 and cases there cited, 1 Monroe, 63, Howard v.
Todd, 1 Marshall, 275; Moore v. Dodd, 1 Marshall, 144, Hardin, 89, 112, 177.
No witness is produced who was present at the making ofthe survey, or who, at any time previous to the entry of Voss,
had seen the north west comer of Patton, or had traced any of
.is lines.
As the survey existed only m the field notes of the surveyor,
what was there to teach a subsequent locator, that the comer
called'for by Voss, was five miles north of Patton's beginning,
or any where in that vicinityQ It would be rash to presume
that the survey conformed exactly to the entry. (See Ward
and Kenton v. Lee, 1 Bibb, 18.) Such was not the fact bere.
The connected plat shows that the north west comer of Patton, as supposed and erroneously assumed upon the evidence
by the court below to have been marked at the time of the

SUPREME COURT.
[Holmes and others v. Trout and others.I

survey, is in truth near half a mile more than five miles from
his beginning. Surveys very often vary from the entries.
When an unrecorded survey is notorious at the time, both as
to its calls and its poiition, it may answer the calls of an entry.
Seay's Heirs v. Walton, 5 Monroe, 368.
An entry calling for the lines of a survey, neither recorded
nor notorious, is invalid, although- the claim on which the survey was made, was notorious. Findlay v. Granger, 2 Mar.
179.
An entry calling for a survey cannot be sustained, unless
the boundaries of the survey are shown, showing the entry on
which the survey was made is not enough. Clay v. M'Kinney, 3 Mar. 570; see also Bulor's Heirs v. M'Cawley, 3 Mar.
573, Theobald v Fowler, 3 Mar. 577, 3 Marshall, 190.
A survey only. a few days old and not notorious, can only
uphold an'appendant entry by being conformable to a certain
and precise entry. Johnson v. Marshall, 4 Bibb, 133. Patton's
survey is not conformable to his entry.
But if the enti y of Voss shall be deemed valid, how do the
complainants show their title under the patent issued to Short
thereon I
The deed of December 10, 1796; set forth in the original
bill, is a nullity. When offered in evidence, the signature of
the grantor was erased. It was never recorded, nor was there
any proof offered competent to show its execution by Short.
The deposition of William Moreton, in the record, was taken
between other parties, to be used in suits to which these defendants were strangers. It cannot be evidence in this case.
So also of the letters copied into the record.
The original bill, and the proceedings under it, show no title
in the complainants, except in virtue of the deed of 1804-if it
shall be considered that that d( 3d is relied on in the original
bill. It does not appear to have been. The complainants say
that Short conveyed his land to John Holmes-not to the complainants and Breckenndge jointly. It is true the deed of
1804.1s filed with the original bill, but the tide alleged is not
derived threugh that deed.
The whole tenor of the original bill is. that the complainants

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Holmes and others v. Trout and others.]

are entitled to all the lands of Short. They do not admit a
participation of the title with them by any one. Why- was
this?.

If they relied upon the last deed, then it would appear that
proper parties were not before the, court, and the title could not
be asserted. until they were. Russel v. Clark's executors,
2 Cond. Rep. 417, Mallow et al. v. Hinde, 12 Wheat. 193,
West v. Randall, 2 Mason, 181, Fallowes v. Williamson, 11
Vesey, 806 16 Vesey, 325, 6 Jobns. Ch. Cas. 450; 3 Bro.
Ch: .Rep. 229 2 Vesey, Sen. 312, 4 Johns. Ch. Rep. 199.
Further, the heirs of Breckenndge are citizens of Kentucky,
ahd the court below could have no jurisdiction of the suit, if
they were joined with the complainants. Strawbridge v.
Curtis, 3 Cranch, 267, Ward v. Arredondo et al., 1 Paine, 410;
Corporation of New. Orleans v. Winter, 1 Wheat. 94.
In Elmendoif v Taylor, 10 Wheat. 152, when -this ohjection was made, ;he court overruled it, because the persons not
joined, and alleged to be tenants- in common with complainants, were entitled to one-fourth part, not of the whole land
sued for,'but of a specifically described portion of it-wich
may, or may not, interfere with the land claimed by defendants Here the interest of the heirs of Breckenridge, under
the deed of 1804, is a moiety, undivided, of all the lands named
in the 'deed.
In their amended bill, the complainants abandon the claim
of title under Short's first deed- and say that it was cancelled,
but that. Short executed a new deed to them and Brecken.idge-and that the interest of the heirs of Breckenridge has
been acquired by them under decree.
This bill, it is insisted, was introductory of a new and distinct title into the suit, or rather it was the first assertion of
any title. Previous to its being filed, there was no legal evidence of title in the complamants. They change their ground
altogether in it.
The defendants'might have resisted the filing of the amended
bill. In I Gallison, 123, it is held that an amendment will
not be allowed to Introduce a new cause of suit, against which
the statute of limitations has run. See also Cox v. Lacey, 3
Littel, 384, May's Heirs v. Hill, 5 Littel, 308, Elliott v. Vo-

SUPREME COURT
[Holmes and others v. Trout and others.)

hannon, 5 Monroe, 123, Currie v. Tibb's Heirs, 5 Monroe,
440; Dudley v. Grayson, 5 Monroe, 260. These are cases at
law, but the principle is the same in chancery.
Defendants, however, agreed that the amendment might be
filed upon condition that if it should be found introductive of a
new title, they should have a right to insist on the defence by
lapse of time.
It is contended that the complainants do not, by the amended bill and the exhibits, show themselves invested with the
title to the land in controversy.
Short, in 1796, had conveyed his land to Holmes. The
deed, although not recorded, passed the title between the parties, and though not proved so as to be valid against the defendants, yet they may avail themselves of the admissions of
the complainants, that it was executed and accepted by the
grantee. Did the erasure of Short's signature to this deed,
revest the title in him, so as to enable him to make the deed
of 1804? The title being in Holmes, under the first deed,
Short could only obtain it by a reconveyance. But none is
exhibited. Neither is there any competent proof in this cause
of any facts or circumstances equivalent in equity to a reconveyance to Short. Nor is there any thing properly to be regarded by this court, which can show Holmes to have been
the trustee for the other complainants.
It is objected to the deed of the commissioner under the
decree against the heirs of Breckenridge
1. That R. I. Breckenridge who made it was not authorized
so to do. He was not appointed commissioner by the court to
convey- as attorney or guardian ad litem, for his co-heirs, he
could not make the deed.
2. The.deed was defective m form and substance. The
grantor is R. L Breckenridge, not as commissioner.
-3. It does not appear to have been approved or confirmed by
the court.
The defendants rely upon adverse possession, and the important questions are, shall they have up to the period of filing
the amended bill for the computation of time for a bar and
whether, if they shah, the bar shall be of the moiety or totality
of the right asserted in the amended bill. The court below

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Holines and others v. Trout and others.]

has responded to the first question in the affirmative, but has
limited the bar to the right derived from Br~ckenridge's heirs.
As the complainants now seek more and against other defendants, it is contended for the defendants that the whole right
should be barred. Will the institution of a suit for land by a
person having no right, stop the running of the statute, which
equity adopts, until he can get a title Q Whether these complainants, having no right to the land held by the defendants
under the grants of Clarke and Hite which they can assert in
the circuit court, may yet file a bill, and years afterwards acquire a title to be engrafted in the suit, and have relation back
to its o
2ng
That the amended bill shall not relate to the beginning of
the suit. See Taylor v. Floyd, 3 Mer. 18, Miller v. MIntyre,
6 Peters, 61, Sicard v. Davis, 6 Peters, 124.
Breckenridge died in 1806 or 1807, after adverse possession
taken of the land in Clarke's grant held by the Morelands.
The descent upon the infant heirs did not stop the running of
the statute. Walden v. Gratz, 1 Wheat. 292, 3 Cond. Rep.
570.
That this possession was held at different times under various rights, is no objection, they were all adverse. Shannon
v. Kinney, 1 Mar. 4, Hord v. Walton, 2 Mar. 621, Alexander
v. Pendleton, 8 Cranch, 462.
As to extent of possession by junior patentee within interference. See Fox v. Hinton, 4 Bibb; Sicard v. Davis, 6 Peters, 139.
Complainants cannot avail themselves of any privilege of
the infant heirs of Breckenridge, supposing that these had any,
opposed to the running of the statute. An infant cannot
trangfer his protection in virtue of the saving clause of the act
of limitations. It is personal. May's Hens v. Slaughter, 3
Mar. 505.
In a joint estate to several persons, if the right of entry is
tolled as to some, all are barred. Dickey v. Armstrong, 1 Mar.
39; Smith v. Carney, 1 Littel, 296, Floyd's Heirs v. Johnson,
2 Littel, 109.
But by the act of Kentucky, January 22, 1814, the time
allowed infants after the removal of their disabilities to make

SUPREME COURT.
[Holz.Rand others v. Trout and others.]

entry or bring suit had elapsed, as to all the heirs of Brecken-

ridge before the deed to the complainants conveying their
right, and the filing of the amended-bill. That act gives
three years after amving of age. See Clay's Heirs v. Miller,
3 Mar. 147. That one of the heirs became a feme covert, will
not avail to save the right. Disabilities cannot be added to
each other, besides she was for a period discovert. 1 Mar.375.
Allen's entry is laid down correctly by the court below. It
is not such an entry as can properly be surveyed m a rectangle.
The call "1down the creek on both sides" cannot be.rejected,
and as the general course of the creek is not west, the side
lines of the entry cannot be at right angles to the base.
"Westwardly" in an entry is not synonymous with west.
Craig v. Hawkin's Heirs, 1 Bibb, 53, Hughes, 18, 104.
A base line being given by-the entry, the word "wesLwardly" serves only to show on which side of that base the
entry shall lie. 1 Bibb, 53.
"Westwardly" is an indefinite call. Hendricks v. Bell, 1
Bibb, 138, 122, 2 Bibb, 120.
" Down the creek on both sides" is a definite call.
Definite calls cannot be controlled by indefinite ones. Calk
v. Stribling, 1 Bibb, 122. Certain and definite calls control
indefinite calls, rendered certain by rules of construction. 2
Bibb, 622, 627, 4 Bibb, 161, 1 Mar. 608.
The words westwardly, northwardly, &c. have never been
construed as west, north, &c. except where there was no other
call in the entry to give it figure or certainty. 1 Bibb, 53.
Here it is not so.
Kincaid v. Taylor, 2 Bibb, 122, is authority to show that
this entry is correctly laid down, the word "westwardly" being
flexible. Allen v. Blanton, 2 Bibb, 523, Carland v. Rowland,
3 Bibb, 127
An entry should be viewed in all its parts as an entire instrument, thereby to give to each expression its proper bearing
and effect. Baker v. Hardin, 3 Bibb, 414.
There is no repulgnance in the calls of Allen's entry" all of
them have been regarded in the survey directed by the court
below
Complainants' survey and patent specify the quantity of

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Holmes and others v. Tront and others.]

land at eight thousand five hundred acres, and the decree of
the court below has given them. that quantity. Yet they msist that they are entitled to ten thousand acres.
No case has been found in which a complainant in equity
against an older grant has been allowed more land than the
quantity called for in Ins patent, actually surveyed under order
of court. For every acre of land held by a defendant in virtue
of a prior legal title, the complainant must show before he can
obtain it, first, a prior valid equity, secondly, a jumior legal
title.
An entry not surveyed, nor carried into grant, cannot be
made the foundation of a decree against a patent. Steel v.
M'Dowell, 2 Bibb, 123, Blain v. Thompson, 3 Bibb, 148.
If there is any mistake in this case, it is the common error
of making a survey to embrace a large surplus, so often comAnd an argument built upon the fact
mitted in Kentucl
that the bounds of the survey contain more than eight thousand five hundred acres, would show that the surveyor meant
to write in the certificate of survey not ten thousand acres, but
sixteen thousand acres, wlnch is about the quantitV actually
included in the survey.
By the survey and patent, Short obtained the legal title only
to eight thousand five hundred acres of Voss'. entry The
remaining fifteen hundred acres might legally have been withdrawn, and were for aught that appears.
It is to be presumed thaL the survey was made anid returned
to the land office by the authority of the owner, who might
have had the nistake, if any had exvted, corrected, and caused
a re-survey to be made, but who was ,atufi d to take a grant
for eight thousand five hundred acres only, which must now
linit the extelt of the claim. Act of 1779, 1 Lift. Laws, 411,
Galloway's heirs v. Vebb, I Mar. 129, Withers v. Tyler.
2 Mar. 174, Ioftus v. Mitchell, 3 Mar. 598.
The case of Taylor v. Brown, 2 Cond. Rep. 235, was a con.
test b~tween two military surveys pror to 1779. It is not analogous to the present case. There the complainants had the
elder survey, -wluch was considered as being at once the inception of title, and final approprimtion of the laud 'i equity.
Surplus was decreed to if. That wia the case of a survey
VOL. Vfl.-2 A

SUPREME COURT.
[Holmes and others v. Trout and others.]

specifically marked and bounded "in the country at the time
the junior survey was made. This is the case of an entry mdefinite as to its extent, and not surveyed until after the survey
made for defendants.
The case of Beckley v. Bryan, cited in Taylor v. Brown,
slhows that surplus in the bounds of survey, shall be rendered
to the holder of an entry made prior to the survey. In Johnson v. Buffngton, as cited, it appeared that both the entry and
survey of the elder patentee were subsequent to the survey of
the complainant holding the junior patent.
Mr Justice M'LEAN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This appeal is prosecuted by the complttmants, to reverse a
decree of the circuit court of Kentucky.
The original bill was filed by John Holmes, Michael Omealy,
Richard Caton, Hugh Thompson and William Slater, who set
up a title under the following entry
"Edward Voss enters
ten thousand acres by virtue of two treasury warrants, Nos.
8991 and 8990, beginning at the north west corner of Patton's eight thousand four hundred acres survey; thence, with
Aliens line, westwardly to the river, and along. Roberts's line
to the east for quantity;" "also, five thousand acres by virtue of
treasury warrant, No. 8989, beginning at the south west comer
of Patton's eight thousand four hundred acres survey, then
westwardly with Patton, Pope and Thomas's survey; thence
up the river, and on Patton's line on the east, for quantity."
The complainants represent that surveys having been executed on these entries, they were assigned to Peyton Short,
who obtaned the patents bearing date the 12th and 16th days
of March 1790. That Short afterwards conveyed both tracts
to khe complainant John Holmes, who, by virtue of certain
contracts, holds the land in trust for the other complainants;
all the complainants having a joint interest in it. The entries
of Voss are alleged to be valid, and also tre surveys and patents.
The defendants are represented to be in possession of a part
of these tracts of land, under grants older than the compliants', but which were founded, on entries made subsequent ta
the complainants', and they pray that the defendants may be
decreed to convey their respective rights to the complainants.

JANUARY'TERM 1833.
(Holmes and others v Trout and others.]

In May term 1829, the complainants filed an amended bill,
in which they state that the land in contest was purchased for
the use and benefit of Holmes, Slater, Caton and Omealy.
That by subsequent transactions, Omealy became the trustee
of Slater and Caton, and that an agreement was entered into
between the complainants and a certain John Breckenridge,
by which he undertook to render certain services, for which he
was to have one moiety of the land. and the originl deed to
Holmes, never having been recorded, was, by the complainants,
handed to Breckenridge, with other papers which related' to
the business, accompamed with directions to Short to make
another deed, and full powers, as they are advised, were given
by them to Breckemidge to take a deed from Short, vesting
the title to one half of the lands in himself, and the other in
the complainants. That Breckenridge having obtained possession of the deed made to Holmes, being vested with the
power, did agree with Short to cancel that deed, and it was
accordingly cancelled. And the complainants represent that
Omealy, trustee for John Holmes and William Slater, and
Hugh Thompson; trustee for Richard Caton, did on the 21st
day of September 1804, receive and take a deed to Breckenridge and themselves, as above stated, and did deliver over the
deed of Hohnes to Short, who cancelled it by erasing his name
therefrom.
It is further stated in the amended bill, that Breckenrdge
died before the services which constituted the consideration on
which a moiety of the land was conveyed to him, were fully
rendered, and on a bill being filed by the complainants against
Breckenndge's heirs, they were decreed to convey to the complainants a certain, part of their interest in the land. This decree was entered at November term 1822.
In answer to the amended bill, the defendants, Jeremiah
Trout, Daniel Trout,'Xilliain Buchannan, Jacob Overpeck,
John Moreland, Walter A. Moreland and William Moreland,
allege that they had been in the actual occupancy and peaceable possession of all the land claimed by them for upwards of
twenty years before the amended ill was filed.
IL was agreed between the parties thatJohn Howard entered
on the hind in controversy, by virue of his claim of seven

SUPREME COURT.
[Holmes and others v. Trout and others.)

thousand nine hundred and forty-five and a'half acres, by his
tenants, within the claim of C. Clarke, that' the entry was
within the boundary of said Clarke, and that Howard's claim
wholly covered the claim of Clarke; that this entry into the
possession was made in the year 1804, and continued, without
interruption, adverse to the claim of Voss and Short, and those
who claim under them, until the year 1813, when William
Moreland, a purchaser from Clarke, brought an action of ejectment against Howard and evicted him. That possession was
taken by Moreland, which has been held by him and his devisees ever since. It was admitted that Daniel Trout, in the
year 1808, purchased the claim of Daniel and Hite's six hundred acres within complainants' claim, and that Daniel and
Jeremiah Trout entered into the possession under such purchase, and ever since have held, by themselves and their grantees, Overpeck and Buchannan, adversely to the complainants.
As the entry of Voss, under which the complainants claun,
was made before the entries under which the defendants claim,
the complainants have a prior equity if their entry can be sustained. The validity of this entry, therefore, is the first point
-for examination. It calls to begin at the north west comer
of Patton's eight thou-and four hundred acres survey, and for
Allen and Roberts's line. Patton's entry was made on the
26th December 1782, for eight thousand four hundred acres;
upon a treasury warrant, No. 12,311, about two miles up the
first branch above the Eighteen Mile creek, beginning at a
tree marked J. P., to run north five miles, then to extend off
at right angles for quantity" this entry was surveyed on the
20th September 1783, and calls to begin at a mulberry, elm
and sugar tree, marked J. P., standing on the bank of the first
large creek running into the Olo above the Eighteen Mile
creek, two miles up the said creek. On the. I th October
1783,,John Allen entered one thousand acres, part of a treasury warrant, No. 14,198, beginning at the north west corner
of Patton's eight thousand -four hundred acres turvey, and
running with his line south two hundred and fifty poles, thence
down the creek on both sides, westwardlyfor quantity, to be lid
off in one or more survevs.

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Holmes and others v. Trout and others.]

Roberts's entry bears date on the 26th December 1782; the
same day Patton's entry was made.
As Voss's, entry can only be sustained by sustaining the
survey and entry of Patton, it will be proper in the first place
to inquire into their validity.
To support the entry of Patton, several witnesses were exammed. Mernwether Lewis states that Eighteen Mile creek,
one of the descriptive calls in this entr, was known previous
to the year 1782, and that Patton's creek is the first one falling into the Ohio above Eighteen Mile creek, except Bell's
spring branch, which is not much more than a mile in length,
that Patton's creek was so called from the time the above entry
was made, and was generally pretty well known by that name
as early as October 1783. He does not recollect the year he
became acquainted witb the tree marked J. P., but he thinks,
within a year or two after the entry was made, be was at the
tree marked, which stood two miles up Patton's creek, lacking
forty poles. The letters J. P were very large, and marked on
a mulberry tree standing near the creek; that Patton informed
him of the entry shortly after it was made, and that he had
marked the tree, and run one of the lines before he made the
entry. From the appearance.of the letters on the tree when
he first saw it, the witness has no doubt that it was marked
at the time represented by Patton. He was enabled to find
the marked tree witliout difficflty, from P' ton's descnptiomof
it, and he thinks that any subsequent locator could not have
failed to fina it. Having found the beginmng corner of Patton's survey, the witness says 'his north west corner, which -is
called for in Yoss's entry, could be found by tracing the line, of
the survey to that comer.
Joseph Saunders another witness, states, that in the year
1780, Eighteen Mile creek was well known, ana that Patton's
creek is the first branch or creek of any note which falls into
the Ohio above Eighteen 'Mile creek. In May 1783, Patton
showed him a mulberry tree marked J. P standing on the
north bank of Patton's creek, about two miles from the mouth
of said creek, which he said was the beginning comer of his
entry. As the letters were large, and the tree slood on the

SUPREME COURT
[Holmes and othersv. Trout and others.]

bank of the creek, the witness thinks it might have been found
by any one m search of it.
Several other witneisses prove that Eighteen Mile creek was
well known before Patton's entry, and that Patton's creek is
the first considerable stream whiph falls into the Ohio ablxve
Eighteen Mile creek; and that after Patton's entry, the creek
was called by his name, but they were not acquainted with
his entry and survey until some years after they were made.
It is first objected to this entry, that in the case of Merwether v. Davidge, 2 Littel, 38, the court of appeals of Kentucky decided it was invalid. Its descriptive as well as locative calls are not sufficient, it is urged, to lead an inquirer to
the beginning called for, and that a marked tree is not a good
cill, though the calls whici lead to it designate objects of notonety, unless it be proved that the tree was marked at the
time the entry bears date, or prior to that time. And, as there
is no such proof in the present case me entry must be considered void. These and other arguments are used against the
validity of this entry.,
As it regards the decisions of the court of appeals referred
to, it may be proper to remark, that it was made on a different state of facts from that which is proved m the present
case. IVerrnwether Lewis, who was a party in that cause,
could not, of course, be a witness, and on examining his deposition it will be seen that he states several important facts
respecting the entry.
The decision of the court of appeals was conclusive upon the
rights of the litigant parties in all courts; but the inquiry into
the validity of Patton's entry is only collateral to the merits of
the present case, and a decision upon it, under such circumstances, can in no respect affect the rights whch were settled
in the -case of Memwether v. Davidge. This consideration
and the variance of the proof in that cause from the evidence
in this, leave no doubt that the court should regard the validity of this entry as open- for investigation in the present
cause,
From the evidence it ]s clear, that Eighteen Mile creek was
publicly known before Patton's entry, and that the first branch

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Holmes and others v. Trout and others.]

above Eighteen Mile creek, which suits the call, we- the one
on which the entry was made. A person, therefore, desirous
of finding the begnming of this entry, could have no difficulty
in designating Patton's creek. He must then search for the
marked tree about two miles up this creek.
But it is objected., that the entry does not state how near the
creek the marked tree stands, nor on which side of it, and
that it falls short of two miles, on a straight line, forty poles.
The tree stands near the bank of the creek, as appears from
the evidence, and the letters marked being large, could easily
be seen. The variation of forty poles from the distance called
for, was as little as could reasonably be expected, when the
circumstances under which this entry was made are considered,
and to look for the marked tree within the range of forty poles
both up and down, the creek, from the exact distance of two
miles, would not require unreasonable labour of a subsequent
locator. Nor does it seem to be unreasonable, that he should
examine on both sides of the creek.
Several of the witnesses say, from the calls in the entry,
Patton's beginning comer could have been found without difficulty. This was all that the law required. But it is said
that there is no proof at .what time the tree was marked.
Lewis said it was within a year or two after the entry purports
to have been made; and he has no doubt, from the appearance
of the marks, that they were made as early as the date of the
entry. Experience enables a person to judge with great ac*curacyhow long marks have been made, fiom their general
appearance. In May 1783, only six months after the entry,
Saunders saw the marked tree. From these facts, and other
circumstances of the case, the evidence established at least
prima facie, that the tree ealled for was marked when the entry was made. If other trees were shown bearing the same
marks at other places on the-creek, it might create so great an
uncertainty as to invalidate this entry. But no such facts are
proved in the case
After an attentive examination of the evidence-in relation to
this entry, the conclusion m favour of its validity may be safely
drawn. In coming to this result, no established principle of
law is controverted, nor any sound process of reasoning.

SUPREME COURT.
[Holmes and others v. Trout and others.]

But it is contended, that if the beginning of Patton's entry
be established, it does not follow that the entry of Voss is good,
as it calls for the north west corner of Patton's survey, which
is not the beginning comer, and that a survey which has not
been recorded -cannot support an entry
Voss made his entry about twenty days after Patton's survey was executed, and before it was recorded, but the call
for the survey necessarily includes the entry, if the survey has
been made m pursuance of the entry It must be admitted
that a survey of itself, which had inot acquired notoriety, is not
a good call for an entry. But when the survey has been made
conformably to the entry, and the entry can be sustained, as
in the case of Patton, the call for the survey may support an
entry. 'The boundaries for the survey must be shown, as has
been done in the present case. Johnson v. Marshall, 4 Bibb,
133, Clay v. M'Kiuney, 3 Marshall, 570; also the same book,
573, 577 and 190.
Patton calls to run from his beginning corner north five
miles, and in making his survey, he ran near six. This shows,
it is contended, that the entry of Patton has not been accurately
surveyed, and consequently, Voss's entry must fail.
It has been long a settled principle in Kentucky, that surplus
land in a survey does not vitiate it, and such a survey is held
to have been made conformably to entry. The inquiry is not,
therefore, whether the line of Patton, from the beginning corner to his north west comer, which is called for by Voss, and
the other lines of Patton, are the exact distances designated,
but whether they were- so made as to conform to his entry,
within the established rule on the subject. Of this there can
exist no doubt.
Any one desirous of finding the beginning comer of Voss,
having found the tree marked J. P., would trace the line runnig north to the comer called for by Voss. This he-could
-have no difficulty in finding, although this line is longer than
called for in Patton's entry >
That Patton's survey was made before the entry of. Voss,
appears from the date of the survey and other l'acts in the case,
From these considerations, the court think that the complaihants.haft sustamed the entry under which they claim.

JANUARY TERM 18S3.
(Holmes and others v. Trout and others.]

In the further examination of the case, it will be necessary
to inquire, whether the title set up by the complainants under
the deed executed by Short in 1796, or the one he executed to
the complainants and Breckenndge in 1804; shall be held
valid. Both deeds are -for the same tract of land, and the
complainants in this court earnestly contend, that their title
under the deed executed in 1796 vests in them a good legal
title, From the circumstances under which this deed was
executed, and the subsequent proceedings in regard to.it, as
set forth in the amended bill, the circuit court held this deed
to be null and void. With the view to establish the validity
of this deed, the complainants alleged a diminution of the
record, and this court, at the present term, awarded a.certiorari,
directing the record of the suit in chancery by the complainants against Short and the heirs of Breckenrdge to be certified,
on the ground that it is supposed to have-been made a part of
the record in the present case. That suit was brought by the
complainants in the circuit court, to procure a reconveyance
from the heirs of Breckenridge, of one moiety-of the land in
controversy, which had been conveyed to their ancestor by
Short, under the deed of the 21st of September 1804, on the
ground that he had died before the professional services, which
formed the, consideration of the grant, were performed. On
the final heanng of this case, the court decreed that the defendants should release a part of the land to the complainants,
m pursuance of which deeds were executed.
On the heanng, several depositions and letters were read,
tending to show, that the deed from Short to Holmes in 1796,
was duly executed. A.part of this evidence seems to have
been extracted from this record, and used on the final hearing
in the circuit court of the cause now under examination. This
evidence has been certified up with the record, as forming a
part of the case: but it is alleged. that, as in the amended bill,
the decree and the deeds made in pursuance of it, in the case
against the heirs of Breckenndge, Were made a part of it, and
as in the opinion of the court there is a reference to the proceedings in that case, they form a part of.the record in the.suit
now before the court.
The decree and the deeds in that suit, which were made a
VOL. VII.-2 B

SUPREME COURT.
[Holmes and others v. Trout and others.j

part of the amended bill, were incorporated into the record by
the court below, and undoubtedly form a part of it: but it cannot be admitted that the evidence in that case, except so far as
it was extracted and used in the circuit court, is admissible in
this case. That suit was between different parties, and the
points presented for the action of the court were different.
No evidence can be looked into in this court, which exercises an appellate jurisdiction, that was not before the circuit
court, and the evidence certified with the record must be considered here, as the only evidence before the court-below If,
in cdrtifymg the record, a part of the evidence in the case had
been omitted, it might be certified in obedience to a certiorari,
but in such case'it must appear from the record that the evidence was used, or offered to the circuit court.
It is to be regretted, that on the hearing in the court below
any evidence was omitted which is deemed material in the
case, but it is now too late to remedy the omission
To prove the-execution of the deed by Short to Holmes, in
1796, the depositi n of William Moreton, one of the subscribing
witnesses, was read. He proves his own signature, and also
the signatures of James Russell and Francis Jones, who were
also subscribing witnesses, and he proves the signature of the
grantor, although a.stroke of the pen. is made over it. The
witness further states, that he was written to by Mr Short to
endeavour to make sales of lands for him,which he did not dQ,
but on being told "by J6hn Holmes what was the best he
could do with the land, he advised him to sell, and told him
he thought Short would be satisfied." "That he understood
the lands were sold, and the papers, or a part.of them, between
Short and Holmes in relation to the sales, were sent to him, as
he believes, to close the business with Short. On. the examination of lus.letter book, he fincs a copy of 'aletter to Mr John
Holmes, under date of January 3d, 1797, on which day he
forwarded to um by Mr Hughes, inclosed in said letter, the
above deed."
On the 10th January 1803, Holmes wrote to Moreton from
Baltimore, and says, "the lands you sold on 4ccount of Mr
Short, were held by Thompson, Mr Caton and myself. These
gentlemen will correspond with you respecting them, to which

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Holmes and others v. Trout and others.)

you will please to attend. I will thank you to do every thing
in your power to get the necessary title papers, &c. for my
-proportion, Mr Omealy, my trustee, has the direction, who
will direct you as it respects me."
Mr Caton wrote to Moreton, it is presumed, at the same time,
that the interest he had in the lands jointly, he some tine before transferred to William Slater, of Baltimore, who -Vould
write to him in conjunction with Mr Thompson and Mr
Omealy, Mr Holmes's trustee.
And-on the 13th January 1803, Mr Omealy, as trustee for
John Holmes, William Slater and H. Thompson, wrote to
Moreton, inclosing the above letters, and they say, "the annexed letters from Holmes and Mr Caton inform you of our
being the proprietors and legal representatives of the land
bought of Short, and heretofore held by Mr Holmes,. amountmag, we believe, to fourteen thousand five hundred acres. By
an agreement with Mr Breckenridge, your senator in congress,
he has undertaken to procure us a good title) and to effect a
sale of the lands. We therefore request that you will surrender into his hands all the papers and documents you may have
relating to them, that the title may be vested in him by Short
and yourself, and by this authority, we require yourself, Mr
Short, and.all others concerned, to consider Mr Breckenndge
as our assignee for the lands in question, subject to the agreements entered into by Mr Breckenridge and us."
The papers surrendered to Breckenrdge iii pursuance of
this letter, were, "a copy of a letter from Peyton Short to
John Holmes, dated-Richmond, 29th September 1794." "An
onginal letter from Peyton Short to Mr William Moreton, dated
Woodford, 2d April 1795." Also "a copy of a paper, dated
Baltimore, 9th May 1795, addressed to Mr J6hn Holmes, and
signed by William Moreton, attorney for Peyton Short, respect-.
ing the conveyance of fourteen thousand acres of land ;" but
these papers were not copied into the record, and there is no
proof that they were used as evidence -on the hearing in the
circuit court.
From this evidence, without reference to the facts stated in
the amended bil, it would be difficult to come to a satisfactory

SUPREME COURT.
(Holnes and others v. Trout and others.]

conclusion, as it regards the execution of the deed in 1796.
There can be no.doubt, from the deposition of Moreton, that'it
was signed by Short, and it is probable that it was forwarded
to Holmes, as stated in Moreton's deposition, but there is no
evidence of its having been received by hlm, or that he treated
it as a valid instrument. It would seem, from the letter of
Holmes, dated the 10th of January 1803, that he was not at
that, time in possession of this deed, for he requests Moreton
"to do every thing in his power to get the necessary title papers," &c. And the meinorandum of the paper delivered to
Breckenndge,.dated 9th May 1795, which was addressed to
Holmes, and signed by Moreton as attorney for Short, and
which respected the conveyance of fourteen thousand acres of
land, could not have referred to an absolute sale of the land
to Holmes, "itwould seem, as Moreton states in his deposition
that he did not sell to him. But even admitting that in this
respect the memory of Moreton is mcprrect, and that, as attorney of Short, he did sell the land to'Holmes, does it not appear
probable, from the deposition of Moreton, that the conveyance
to Holmes was made with the view of enabling him to dispose
of the land for the benefit of Short.- And if this were the
case, whether Holmes first sold the land to his co-complainants, retaining an interest in it himself, or became interested
in it by any other -means, it does not appear that he was ever
actually in possession of the deed, or claimed title under it.
If strong doubts rested upon this part of the case, a reference
to the amended bill would dispel them. But the facts there
alleged, it is insisted, were stated -through the mistake of
c unsel,. and that the nghts of the complainants ought not
therefore to be prejudiced by them.
On such an allgation the court cannot disregard the case
which the complainants have made in their bill. They allege
expressly that the deed executed by, Short to Holmes,, never
having been recorded, was delivered up and cancelled by those
who had full powers on the subject,.and that another-deed
was executed by Short, upon proper authority, vesting the fee
to one moiety of the land in Breckenridge, and the other in
the complainants. And by eference to' the decree, in the

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Holmes and others T. Trovt and others.]
case against the heirs of Breckenndge, it appears that this deed
was treated-as a valid instrument, as the heirs were required
to convey a part of the land held under it to the complainants.
The pnnciple is admitted, that the mere cancelling of a deed
does not re-invest the title in the grantor under the laws of
Kentucky; but, under the circumstances of this case, the court
are clear, that the deed to Holmes must be considered as a
nullity. It has been so treated by the parties themselves, not
only, it would seem, by the decree against the heirs of Breckenndge, but by the express allegations of the amended bill.
If, therefore, it were proved that this deed had been delivered
to Holmes, or was found among his papers after his assignment, the court could not hold it valid in opposition to the acts
and allegations*of the complainants. The conveyance may
have been made with the sole view of enabling Holmes to
convey to others who had purchased, and a different arrangement being made, as the deed had not been recorded, and
Holmes not having.acted underit, it was probably surrendered,
with all other papers relating to the land, to Breckenridge, by
those who had full power to do so, as stated in the amended
bill on which surrender, Short executed the deed to the complainants and Breckenndge. Whatever may have been the
facts in regard to the delivery of the deed to Holmes and its
surrender, this court have no difficulty in treating it as a void
instrument, under all the circumstances of the case.
In this view of the facts, the complainants must rest their
legal title to the land in controversy, on the deed executed in
1804, agreeably to the .case made in €heir amended bill.
Whatever equitable claim the complainants may have had to
this land, the deed to Breckenridge conveyed one moiety of it
to lum, and the next point of inquiry is, whether the decree
obtained against the heirs of Breckenridge, and the conveyances executed in pursuance of it, as set forth in the amended
bill, must be considered as sdttmg up a new right, so as to give
to a part of the defendants the benefit of the statute of limitations which they plead.
The conveyance was executed to Breckenridge onthe consideration of services to be rendered ni establishing the title to

SUPREME COURT.
[Holmes and others v. Tiuoit and others.]

the land. These services were only rendered in part before
the decease of Breckenridge, and on that ground the court
decreed that his heirs, tor whom the land descended, should
convey'to the plaintiffs a part of the land.
Before the conveyances under this decree, the complainants
could not be considered as having any claim to the land conveyed to Breckenridge, more than they would have had if the
contract had been to pay money instead of services, and he
had failed in paying a part of the amount. In such a case,
the complainants might have asked a rescision of the contract,
except for so much of the land as had been paid for. Or, they
might have asked a specific execution of the contract, or have
compelled the payment of the residue of the consideration by
an action at law But, until the complainants had made their
election to proceed against the land, and had, through the decree of a court of chancery, obtained a conveyance of it, they
possessed no specific right to the land which they could enforce
either in law or equity, against persons in possession under an
adverse claim. It therefore follows, that the title set up in the
amended bill, under the decree against the heirs of Breckenridge, is a new right, and must be considered as having br n
first asserted by the amended bill, and k this bill was filed in
May term 1829, the statute of liniitation will constitute a good
bar so far as the right under the decree is asserted against the
defendants, who have held, adversely, twenty years or upwards.
It is true the complainants are non-residents, but so far as
the land obtained by the decree against the heirs of Breckeir.
ndge is concerned, the statute had begun to run before the
decree, and that proceeding does not arrest it.
The survey of Voss was made for eight thousand five hundred acres on the 16th February 1789, and the patent was
issued to Short, as the assignee of Voss, on the 16th March
1790, for eighT thousand five hundred acres. In runnig the
lines of the survey, which purports to appropriate only eight
thousand five hundred acres of the entry, they were made to
include a large surplus of land, beyond the calls of the entry.
But before tis survey wvs- executed severa entries were made,

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Holmes and others v. Trout and others.]

under which a part of the defendants claim, and which are
embraced In the survey It becomes, therefore, necessary to
determine between these conflicting rights.
The principle is well settled, that a junior entry shall limit
the survey of a pnor entry to its calls. This rule is reasonable
and just. Until an entry be surveyed, a subsequent locator
must be governed by its calls; and this is the reason why it is
essential that every elitry shall describe, with precision, the
land designed to be appropriated by it. If the land adjommg
to the entry should be covered by a subsequent location, it
would be most unjust to sanction a survey of the prior entry
beyond itu. calls, and so as to include a part of the junior entry.
This principle is not contested by the complainants, but they
deny its application to the case under consideration. They
insist that the designation of the niunber of acres in the survey,
below the amount callqd for in the entry, was a mistake of the
surveyor. That it was the intention of Voss to survey his
entire entiy, as is evidenced by the number of acres actially
included in the survey. And the well settled rule is relira on,
that surplus land will not vitiatc a survey.
The intention of the surveyor can only be known by his
official acts, and a resort to these inthe present case, will show
that he intended only to survey eight thousand five hundred
acres, of the ten thousand acres entry. It is true, the lines
include a very large surplus, but this, according to the rule
stated, does not render the survey void.
The locator may survey his entry into one. or more surveys,
or he may, at pleasure, withdraw a part of his entry. Where
a part of a warrant is withdrawn, the tules of the land office
require a memorandum on the margin of the record of the
ongiatl entry, showing what part of it is withdrawn.

It does

not appear that any record of a withdrawal of a part of Voss's
entry was made, and from this fact it is argued, that none was
intended to be withdiawn.

The question ig not exclusively one of intention, or whether
any part of this warrant has been withdrawn. If a withdrawal
appeared upon the record, it would be conclusive; but must
not the right to withdraw fifteen hundred acres of the entry be
equally as conclusive as if it had been done. And is not this

SUPREME COURT.
(Holmes and others v. Trout and others.)

right incontrovertibly established by the fact, that only eight
thousand five hundred acres of the original entry have been
surveyed and patented.
If a mistake was made by the surveyor, why was it not-corrected before the emanation of the grant, or at some subsequent
period? This might have been done at any time by the holder
of the claim.
Whatever "may be the facts in regard to a mistake of the
surveyor, this court cannot correct it, nor does it prevent the
complainants from withdrawing one thousand five hundred
acres of the entry, and making a location elsewhere; or perhaps, from still executing the survey for this quantity under
the original entry. If in the latter case the right would be
barred by the statute of limatatibns; or in the former it would
be ineffectual from the lapse of time or the want'of vacan4
'land, the loss is chargeable to the negligence of the complainants, and those under whom they claim.
From this construction of the survey it follows, that the
right asserted under it must be limited by the valid entries
under which a part of the defendants claim, to the calls of the
entry which shall cover the quantity of acres that the surveyor
purported to survey. The same construction must be given
to the survey as if it had been made on an entry fvr eight
thousand five hundred acres, which, by subsequent locations,
was limited strictly to its calls.
As the line of Allen is called for as one of the boundaries of
Voss's entry, it is necessary to give a construction to Allen's
entry, and ascertain where this line should be established.
Allen's entry was not surveyed at the time Voss made his
location. This entry calls to "begin at the north west comer
of Patton's eight thousand four hundred acres survey, and to
run with his line south two hundred and fifty poles, thence
dQwn the creek on both sides for quantity; to be laid off in one
or more surveys."
The circuit court directed the survey of Allens entry to
be so made, from the base line called for, as that the lines
shall include Bare Bone creek, and be parallel to its several
courses, &c.
It appears fiom the survey executed in pursuance of

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Holmes and others v. Trout and others.]

construction of Allen's entry, that near where the creek falls
into the Ohio river, there is a bend lia it which renders it impracticable to include the mouth of the creek m the survey;
but, with the exception of this bend, the creek is included. As
it is impracticable to include the mouth of this creek in the
survey, it is insisted by the complainants' counsel, that this
survey of the entry is incorrectly made, and-that the court
should have directed it to be made by running at right angles
from the base line for quantity.
In support of this position several authorities have been cited.
In the case of Preble v. Vanhoover, 2 Bibb, 120, the court say,
"that the call to run eastu-ardly is an indefinite expression,
signifying on which side of the base line the land is to lie; and
that a rectangular figure is not to be departed from, unless the
calls of the entry are incompatible with that figure."
But in the same case the entry called to include an improvement, and the court decided that the length of the given
base and the call to include the improvement beig incompatible, the former must yield, so far as necessary, to comply with
the latter. In Hardin, 208, the construction of an entry is
given by the court of appeals of Kentucky. They say that in
the construction of enthes it is difficult to lay down general
rules, that will not necessarily admit of many exceptions.
Each case must frequently depend upon its own peculiar circumstances; but it is evident that every entry itself must be
resorted to for discovering the locator's intention, in construing
which, the whole entry, like other writings, should be taken
together. "But if, from a fair and reasonable exposition of
the entry, a call appears to have been made through mistake
and is repugnant to the locator's intention, it ought to be rejected, the court say, as surplusage, and.not suffered to vitiate
the whole entry. Therefore, they say, the object called for
should not be so repugnant as to be incapable of msleading a
subsequent inquirer with ordinary caution." "It should be
practicable to comply with the call, and, in general, it should
be a tangible object, either, natural or artificial, not a: mere
ideal one." The court also say, that a certain line should be
run south west, "not only because they conceive the locator's
intention sufficiently manifest, but because they esteem it a
VOL. VII.-2 C

SUPREME COURT.
[Holmes and others v. Trout and others.]
good rule that the lines of every survey should be as nearly
parallel to each other, and as nearly at right angles, as the
calls of the entry will admit, and when not controlled by such
calls as evidently show the locator's intention to be otherwise,
the court will give its calls this construction, as being the most
reasonable, and the least subject to exception."
These views contain the general principles which have been
established in Kentucky, and by which entries in that statc
must be governed.
It will be observed, that in giving a construction to an entry
the intention of the-locator is to be chiefly regarded, the same
as the intention of the parties in giving a construction to a contract. If a call be impracticable, it is rejected as surplusage,
on the ground that it was made through mistake; but if a
call be made for a natural or .artificial object, it shall always
control mere course and distance.. Where there is no object
called for to control a rectangular figure, that form shall be
given to the survey.
These principles must now be applied to the call for the
creek in Allen's entry.
It is objected that this creek is not called by any particular
name, and the reason no doubt was, that, at the time Allen's
entry was made, no name had been given to it. Nor was any
-name given to the creek on which Patton's entry was made.
Subsequent to that entry it was called Patton's creek, from.the
fact of hi entry having been made on its bank.
Barebone creek seems to be a stream of some magnitude;
and it does not appear that there is any other creek which answers the call in Allen's entry. This creek is a natural object,
and is crossed by the base line of the entry, and could any
one doubt the intention of the locator, under such circumstances, to include-the'land on both sides of the creek by his call
"to run down the creek on both sides westwardly, for quantryl" It is true, the mouth of this creek is not included in the
survey which was directed by the circuit court, but the mouth
of the creek is not called for specifically, and it does not'appear, but that if the exact quantity of land called for in the
entry had been surveyed, that the creek would have passed
through the whole length of the tract. The call is not to run

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Holmes and others v. Trout and others.]

to the Ohio river, but" down the creek on both sides for quantity."
It would be difficult to make a call more specific than this,
or one whh would be less likely to mislead any subsequent
locator. Is the fact that the creek, by an unusual deviation
from its general course, near its junction with the Ohio, passes
out of the boundaries designated, calculated to mislead any
one q Suppose it passed out of.the limits of the survey five or
ten poles before the lines closed, would this, by the principles
laid down, require the call to be rejected? Could that fact
lead any one into error 2 Ana unless such a deviation would
require the court to reject the call, it cannot be rejected on the
ground alleged. The creek, by the survey executed, runs
through the tract about seven-eighths of the entire length of
the line, and the extraordinary bend which carries it out of the
survey, cannot vitiate the call or render it substantially repugnant.
The question which arises out of these facts is, whether this
call shall not control the survey, so as substantially to conform
to it. The -all to run westwardly, having nothing else to
control it, would, according to the established rule of construction, require the lines to ne run at night angles from the base.
But, the court are clearly of opinion, that the call to run down
the creek on both sides for quantity, must control the survey,
and that the construction given 'to the entry by the circuit
court was correct.
This line of Allen's entry being established, it forms the
lower boundary of Voss's survey, and it remains only to say
that, agreeably to the calls of his entry, the survey must be
extended up the river and along Roberts's line, so as to include
eight thousand five hundred acres. The survey cannot be
extended beyond this limit, so as to interfere with valid entries
which were made before the original survey of Voss. This
'was the construction given to the rights of the complainants
under their entry and survey, and this court sustain that construction.
The decree of the circuit court must be affirmed, with costs.

