292

SUPREME COURT

JOSEPH SHAW, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR V. JOSEPH COOPER.
ction for an alleged violation of a patent for an improvement in guns and
fire arms.

he letters patent were obtained in 1822; and in 1829,the patentee having
surrendered the same for an alleged defect in the specification, obtained
another patent. This second patent is to be considered as having relationto the emanation of the patent of 1822; and not as having been issued
on an original application.
The holder of a defective patent may surrender, t to the department of
state, and obtain a new one, wluch shall have relation to the emanation of
the first.
The case of Grant and others v. Raymond, 6 Peters, 220, cited and affirmed.
A second patent granted on the surrender of a prior one being a continuation of the first, the rights of a patentee must be ascertained by the law
under which the original application was made.
By the provision.,of the act of congress of 17th April 1800, citizens and
aliens, as to patent rights, are placed substantially upon the same
ground. In either case, if the invention was known or used by the public before it was patented, the patent is.void. In both cases, the right
must be tested by the same rule.
What use by the public, before the application is made for a patent,.suall
make void the right of a patentee.
From an examination of the various provisions of the acts of congress relative to patents for useful inventions, it clearly appears that it was the intention of the legislature, by a compliance with the requisites of the law,
to vest the exclusive right in the inventor only; and that, on condition
that his invention was neither known nor used by the public, before his
application for a patent. If such use or knowledge shall be proved to.
have existed prior to the application for the patent, the act of 1793 declares tlie patent void; and the right of an alien is vacated in the same
manner, by proving a foreign use or knowledlge of us invention. That
knowledge or use which would be fatal to the patent right of a citizen,
would be equally so to the right of an alien.
The knowledge or use spoken of in the act of congress of 1793, could have
referred to the public only; for the pr.jvision would be nugatory if it were
applied to the inventor himself. He must necessarily-have a perfect
knowledge of the thing invented, and of its use, before he can describe
it, as by law he is required to do preparatory to the emanation of a patent.
There may be cases in which aknowledge of the invention may be surreptitiously obtained and communicated to the public, that do not affect
the right of the inventor. Under such circumstances, no presumption
can arise in favour of an abandonment of the right to the public by the
inventor: though an acquiescence on his part will lay the foundation for

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Shaw v. Cooper.1
such a presumption. It is undoubtedly just that every discoverer should
realize the benefits resulting from his discovery, for the period contemplated by law. But those can only bd reserved by a substantial compliance with every legal requisite. This exclusive right does not rest alone
on his discovery, but also uponitle legal sanctions Minch.have been given
to it, and the forms of law with which it has been clothed.
No matter by what means an invention may have been communicated to
the public before a patent is obtained, any acquiescence in the public
use by the inventor will be an abandonment of the right. If the, right
were asserted by him who fraudulently obtained it, perhaps no lapse of
time could give it validity. But the public stand in-an entirely different
relation to the inventor. His right would be secured by giving public
notice that he was the inventor of the thing used, and that he should
apply for a patent.
The acquiescence of an inventor in the public use of his invention, can in
no case be presumed where he has no knowledge of such use. But this
knowledge may be presumed from the circumstances of the case. This
will in general be a fact for a jury and if the inventor do not, immediately after this notice, assert his right, it is such evidence of acquiescenco
in the public use, as forever afterwards to prevent him from asserting it.
After his right shall be perfected by a patent, no p resumption arises
against it from a subsequent use by the public.
A strict construction of the act of congress, as it regards the public ute of
.an invention before it is patented, is not only required by its letter and
spirit, but also by sound policy.
The question of abandonment to the public, does not depend on theinten•tion of the inventor. Whatever may be the intention, if he suffers his
invention to go into public use, through any means whatsoever,.without
an immediate assertion of his right, lie is not entitled to a patent, nor
will a patent obtained under suchcircumstances protect his right.

IN error to the circuit court of the United States for the southern district of New York.
At the October term 1829 of the circuit court for the southern
district of New York, the plaintiff in error, Joseph Shaw, instituted an action against the defendant, Joseph Cooper, for an
alleged violation of a patent granted to him by the United
States, dated the 7th of MAy 1829, for "a new and useful improvement in guns and fire aims, which improvement consisted in a priming head and case applied to qrms aad"fire
arms, for. the purpose of priming and giVing them fire by themeans or use of percusion, fulminating or detonating powder;
by which patent the plaintiff alleged that there was granted to
him, &c. for the term of fourteen years from Ihe 19th of June-

SUPREME COURT.
[Shaw v. Cooper.]

1822, the exclusive right to the said invention, and by virtue
of which he became entitled to the same for the residue of the
term unexpired on the 7th day of May 1829. The declarationS
averred that the defendant had violated the patent right of the
plamtiff, .on the 1st day of August 1829; and afterwards between that day and the institution of the suit.
The defendant pleaded not guilty, and gave the following
notice of the matters of defence.
"Please to take notice, that on the trial of the above cause,
-the above named Joseph' Cooper will, under the plea of he
general issue aforesaid, insist upon, and give in evidence, that
the pretended new and useful improvement in guns and fire
arms, mentioned and referred to in the several counts of the
said Joshua Shaw's declaration, was not oiiginally discovered
or invented by the said Joshua Shaw; also, that the said pretended new and useful improvement, or the material or essential parts or porions thereof, or some or one of them, -had been
known and used in tis country, viz. in the city of New York,
and in the city of Philadelphia, and in sundry other places in
the United States, and in England, and in France, and in other
foreign countries, before the said Joshua Shaw's application
for a patent, as set forth in his said. declaration, and also, before the alleged invention or supposed discovery thereof by the
said Joshua Shaw.
"And further, that the said alleged new and useful improvement, or the material or essential parts or portions thereof, or
some or one of them, or the principle thereof, was the invention
or discovery of a gun maker, or of some other person', residing
in England. And further, that the said patent was void, because in and by the specification or description therein referred
to, no distinction or discrimination is made between the parts
and portions previously known and used as aforesaid, ana any
parts or portions of which the said Joshua Shaw may be ihe
inventor or discoverer" the said Joseph Cooper at the same time
protesting that lie, the said Joshua Shaw, has not been the
inventor or discoverer of any part or portion of the said alleged
improvement.
"And further, that the said patent is void, because the said
specification or description does not describe-the improvement

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Shaw v. Cooper.]

of which the said Joshua Shaw claims td be the inventor or
discoverer, in such full, clear, and exact terms, as to distinguish
the same from all other things before known.4, nor so as to
enable a person skilled in the art or science of which it is a
branch, or with which it is most nearly connected, to make
and use the same. And further, that the said patent is void,
because, it was not granted,.issued pr obtained, according tolaw. And further, that the said patent is void, because it was
surreptitiously obtained by the said Joshua, Shaw.!
"The cause was tried in January 1832, and a verdict and
judgment given for the defendant. The plaintiff prosecuted
this writ of en'or.
The following bill of exceptions was tendered by the counsel for the plaintifi and sealed by thi court.
"The plaintiff, to maintain the issue on his grant; gave in
evidence the letters patent of the United States of America, as
set forth in the declaration of the said plaintiff, issued on the
7th day of May 1829; and also that the improvement for
which the said letters patent were granted, was. invented or
discovered by the said plaintiff in the year 1813 or 1814, and
that the defendant had sold instruments which were infnngements of the said letters patent. And thereupon the said defendant, to maintain the said issue above joined on his.part,
then and there proved by the testimony of one witness, that he
had used the said improvement in England, and had purchased
a gun of the kind there, and had seen others use the said improvement, and had seen guns of the kind in the duke of
York's armoury in 1819 and also proved -by the testimony of
five other witnesses, that, in 1820 and 1821, they worked in
England at the business of making and repairing guns, and
that the said improvement was generally used m England'in
those years, but that they never had seen: guns of the kind
prior to those years and also proved that, in 1821, it was
known and used in France, and also that the said improvement was generally known and used in the United States of
America after the 19th day of June 1822. Whereupon the
maid plaintiff, 'further to mamtaih the said' issue on 'is part,
then and there gave in evidence, .that the said plaintiff not
being a worker in iron in 1813 or1814, employed his brother,

SUPREME COURT.
[Shaw v. Cooper.]
in England, under strict injuinctions of secrecy, to execute or

fabricate the said improvement for the purpose of the said
plaintiff's making experiments. And that the said plintift;
afterwards, in 1817, left England, and came to reside m the
United States of America, and that, after the departure of thQ
said plaintiff from England, viz. m 1817 or'1818, his said brother divulged the said secret for a certain reward to an emient
gun maker in London that the said plaintiff, on his arrival
in this country, in 1817, disclosed his said improvement to a
gun maker, whom lie consulted as to obtaining a patent forthe same, and whom.he wished to engage to join and assist
him. That the plaintiff made said disclosures under injunctions of secrecy, claiming the improvement as his own, and
declaring that he should patent it. That the said plaintiff
treated his invention as a secret after his arrival m this country, often declaring that lie should patent it, and that he assigned as a reason for delaying to patent it, that it was not so
perfect as he wished to make it before he introduced it into
public use: and that he did make alterations in his invention
up to about the dateof his patent, which some witnesses considered as improvements, -and others did not. That, m this
country, the said invention was never known nor used prior to
the said 19th day of June 1822 that, on that day, letters
patent were issued to the said plaintiff, being then an alien,
for his said invention, and that the said plaintiff immediately
brought the said invention into public use under the said letters patent. That afterwards, and after suits had been brought
for violation of the said letters patent, the said plaintiff was
advised to surrender them on account of the specification being
defective, and that he did accordingly, on the 7th day of May
1829, surrender the same into the department of the secretary
of state of the United States of America, and that, thereupon,
the letters patent first. above mentioned were issued to the said
plaintiff. And the said plaintiff also gave in evidence that,
prior the said 19th day of June 1822, the principal importers
of guns from Englaind, in New York and Philadelphia, at the
latter ofwhw~h cities the plaintiff resided, had never heard any
thing.of the said-invention, or that the same was known or
-used in England, and that na guns of the kind were imported

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Shaw v. Cooper.]

into this country until in the years 1824 or 1825. And that
letters patent were granted in England on the I 1th day of April
1807, to one Alexander J. Forsyth, for a method of discharging
or giving fire to artillery, and all other fire arms; which method
he describes in his specification as consisting in ' the use or application as a priming, in any mode, of some or one of those
chemical compounds which are so easily inflammable as to. be
capable of taking fire and exploding without any actual fire
being applied thereto, and merely by a blow, or by any sudden
or strong pressure or frict'on given or applied thereto, without
extraordinary violence, tht is to say, some one of the compounds of combustible matter, such as sulphur or sulphur and
charcoal, with an oxmunatic salt, for example, the salt formed
of dephlogisticated marine acid and potash (or potasse), which
salt is otherwise called oxmuriate of potash, or such of the
fulminating metallic compounds as may be used with safety,
for example, fulminating mercury, or of common gunpowder,
mixed in due quantity with any of the above mentioned substances, or with any oxmunatic salt as aforesaid, or of suitable
mixtures of any of the before mentioned compounds;' and
that the said letters patent continued in force for the period of
fourteen years from and after granting of the same. (It is understood that the patent and specification of Forsyth, may be
at any time referred to on the arguinent for correction or explanation of the bill of exceptions.)
And thereupon the
defendant, further to maintain the said issue on his part, gave
in evidence a certain letter from the plaintiff to the defendant,
dated in December 1824, from which the following is an extract 'some time since I stated that I had employed counsel
respecting regular prosecutions for any trespasses against my
rights to th&patent I have at length obtained the opinions of
Mr Sergeant of this city, together with others eminent in law,
and that is, that I ought (with a view to insure success) to
visit England, and procure the affidavits of Manton and others
to whom I made my invention known, and also of the person
whom I employed to make the lock at the time of invention,
for it appears very essential that I should also prove that I
did -actually redude the principle to practice, otherwise a verdict might be doubtful. It is therefore my intention to visit
VOL. VII.-2 N

SUPREME COURT.
[Shaw v. Cooper.]

England in May next for this purpose, in the mean tume,
proceedings which have commenced here are suspended for
the necessary time.'
"And the said judges of the said court did thereupon charge
and direct the said jury,, that the patent of the 7th day of May
1829, having been issued, as appeared by its recital on the surrender and concealment of the patent of the 19th day of June
1822; and being intended to correct a nustake or remedy a
defect in the latter, it must'be considered as a continuation of
the said patent, and the rights of the plaintiff were to be aetermined by the state of things which existed in 1822, when the
patent was obtained.
"That the plaintiff's case therefore came under the actpassed
the 17th day of April 1800, extending the right of obtaining
patents to aliens, by the first section of which, the applicant is
required to make oath that his invention has not, to the best of
his knowledge or belief, been known or used in this or any
foreign country. That the plaintiff most -probably did not
knowv, in 1822, that the invention for which he was taking out
a patent, had, before that time, been in use in a foreign country;
but that his knowledge or ignorance on that subject was rendered immaterial by the concluding part of the section, which
expressly declares, that every patent obtained pursuant to that
act, for any invention which it should afterwards appear had
been known or used previous to such application for a patent,
should be utterly void. That there was nothing in the act
confining such use to the United States, and that, if the invention was previously known in England or France, it was
sutlcient to avoid the patent under that act. That the evidence would lead to the conclusion that the plaintiff was the
inventor in this case, but the court were of opiaion that he had
slept too long on is rights, and not followed them up as the
law requires, to entitle him to any benefit from his patent.
That the use of the invention, by a person who had pirated %
or by others who knew of the piracy, would not affect the inventor's rights, but that the law was made for the benefit of
the pilblic as well 'sof the inventor:- and'if,'as appeared from
the evidence'in this case, the piblio h&Afirlybecome possessed of the invention before plaintiff applied for his patent, it was

JANUARY TERM 1833
[Shaw v. Cooper.I

sufficient, in the opinion of the court, to invalidate his patent,

even though the inventionmay have originally got into public
use through the fraud or misconduct of his brother, to whom
he entrusted the knowledee of it."
The case was submitted to the court, on printed arguments,
by Mr Paine, for the- plaintiff in error; and Mr Emmet, for
the defendant.
For the plaintiff in error it was contended, that the case fell
within the principles whi -hhad been uniformly acknowledged
and supported in the circuit court of the Uited States, and
which were not intended to be disavowed, but sanctioned by
this court in Pennock v. Dialogue, 2 Peters, 1.
In this countty many strong pases of public use, prior to the
application for a patent, have been brought before the courts,
where the public had been long m possession; and the courts
have allowed the inventor to show in different ways, that he
had not thereby abandoned his use to the public. How much
more favourable to us are the circumstances of our case, as
respects a pnor'use. Before we took out our first patent, the
invention had never been seen nor heard of in this country.
It was not then known to ourselves, nor to any others in this
country, that it had been used in England, and it had been
so used only one or two years-a short period, compared witil
the many cases which have been sustained -by the courts.
Even if this use had been an American use, it would not have
been an extraordinary one. But it was not an American, but
a foreign use, and, therefore,, not a use by the. public,.who
contest our exclusive right, by saying that they had become
the innocent possessors of our invention. Not one of that public had gotten possession of it.
The case does not seem to be fairly stated, when it is said
that, although the invention was disclosed by piracy, yet the
public have innocently got possession of it by that means. The
only public who can set up the innocence of their possession
as against us, did not get their possession by the piracy, but
under the invalid patent. And if this be-so, what difference
-does it make that afterwards guns were brougl4 from Englandl

SUPREME COURT.
[Shaw v. Cooper.]

Does such a circumstance bear, can it be made to bear at
all upon the merits of the case
The parts of the charge to the jury of the circuit court which
are objected to, as understood by the counsel for the plaintiff,
may be stated thus
That the use of the mnvention abroad, acquired through a
fraudulent or piratical disclosure of the secret, for a period of
only one or two years before the application for the patent, and
that use entirely unknown to the inventor here, avoids the
patent, because it was obtained under the alien act.
That our patent of 1829, obtained under the citizen's act, is,
m respect to the prior foreign use, to be construed as if obtained
under the alien act, because it was obtained on the surrender
of the patent of 1822, which was obtained under the alien act,
the one being only a continuation of the other.
That the inventor'(the court are understood to have been
speaking, m this part of the charge, without reference to the
question as to whether the patent was obtained under the alien
or citizen's act, but to have designed their remarks to apply to
patents generally,) had slept too long on his nghts, and not followed them up as the law requires, to entitle him to any benefit
from his patent; that the use of the invention, by a person who
had pirated it, or by others who knew of the piracy, would not
affect the inventor's right, but that the law was made for the
benefit of the public, as well as of the inventor; and if, as appeared from the evidence in tins case, the public had fairly
become possessed of the invention before the plaintiff applied
for his patent, it was sufficient to invalidate his patent, even
though the invention may have originally got into public use
through the fraud or misconduct of his brother, to whom he
intrusted the knowledge of it.
The following points compiehend these objections to the
charge of the court.
1. The second patent is original and independent, and not
a continuation of the first patent.
When patents are surrendered and cancelled in England,
they are entirely vacated and gone, and as if they had never
existed, and the king can grant out the right, de novo, either
to the same, or to any other person. 17 Tin. Abndg. 1 14,

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Shaw.v. Cooper.]

Prerogative of the Kig,R. b. paragraph. 9, 17 Vin. .Abndg.
151, Prerogative, &c. M. C. paragraph 2, 3, 4, 6, 10, 14.
Godson on Pat. 200; Com. Dig. ' Patent,' G.
If this is the effect of a surrender there, it must be the same
here.
Not a dictum can be found in the English books, that a
second patent is a continuation of the first. No such idea can
be found in our own b6oks, although cases of surrender have
come before our courts.
The right of an inventor to surrender an invalid patent, and
between
take out a new one, being admitted, it follows, that if,
the two patents, he has been naturalized, he must, of necessity,
take out a patent under the citizen's act, because he is no
longer an alien. If he, rightfilly, takes a patent under the
cifizen's act, he is entitled to all the advantages that act confers; and among them, to have his patent construed and adjudicated upon, under the provisions of that act and of no other.
2. A fraudulent or piratical use of the invention, either at
hdme or abroad, before the application for a patent, cannot
have any other or greater effect to invalidate a patent obtained
under the alien act, than one obtained under the citizen's act.
On general principles it cannot, for, as to all kinds of property, no one can acquire a right to it except by the consent of
the owner. Theft or fraud can never enable one who gets
possession by those means to transfer the property See authorities cited under next point.
It is on this principle that the courts first began to construe
the citizen's act, by arraying the sixth section against the first.
They said the legislature meant to provide by the sixth section
for the exception of cases of fraud, &c., out of the too rigid
and literal operation of the~first section. Afterwards, the courts
took a more liberal view of the act, and held that, even without
the sixth section, the legislative intention to except such cases
from the first section would be presumed: and this is the doctrine finally settled in Pgnnock v. Dialogue.
The construction given by this court in the case ef Pennock
v. Dialogue, 2 Peters, 22, is entirely'in favour of the plaiatiff
in error.
The court there say, in that case, "the act of ,17th April

-SUPREME COURT.
[Shaw v. Cooper.]

1800, ch. 25, which extends the privileges of the act of 1793
to inventors who are aliens, contains a proviso, declaring
that I every patent which shall be obtained pursuant to the
act, for any invention, art or discovery, which it shall afterwards appear had been known or used previous to such application tor a patent, shall be void.' This.proviso certainly certifies the construction of the act of 1793, already asserted, for
there is not any reason to suppose that the legislature intended
to confer on aliens privileges essentially different from those
belonging to citizens: on the contrary, the enacting clause of
the act of 1800 purports to put both on the same footing, and
the proviso seems added as a gloss, or explanation of the original act."
Now the proviso is the only thing m the alien act which can
make it at all different in this particular from the citizen's act,
and the courts say that it does not make any. difference, but
merely expresses more fully what was the meaning of the citizen's act.
3. If an invention has been pirated or fraudailently divuiged,
the inventor cannot thereby lose his right to is own invention
and lfroperty; and it makes no difference that the public have
acquired the use of the invention without any participation in
the fraud, unless the inventor has acquiesced in such use, the
only principle to be" found in the American decisions on this
subject being, that a public use does i pt affect the inventor's
right, unless it proves that he has dedicated or abandoned his
invention to the public. And in this case there is no evidence
of such delay or neglect as would amount to an abandonment,
nor of any intention to dedicate, the invention to the public.
It is a general principle as to all kinds of personal property,
that even a bona fide purchaser for a valuable consideration can
never acquire property of which another has been deprived by
fraud, theft or violence, or even by a bailment. 1 Wils. Rep. 8,
2 Str. Rep. 1187, 3 Atk. Rep. 44-; Salk. Rep. 283.
In this respect, no difference has ever yet Keen made between
a man's property in his inventions, and his other property; and
there seems to be no reason or principle making a distinction.
The statute of Massachusetts securing copyrights (before
the federal union) begins with a preamble declaring that "no

JANUARY TERM 1833.
(Shaw v. Cooper.]

property is more peculiarly a man's own, than that which is
produced by the labour of his mind." Cited, 1 Dane's Abrndg.
527.
In Miller v. Taylor, 4 Burr. 2303, seven judges against four
held that at common law the author of a literary composition
did -not lose his right by publishing it.
So far, then, as the natural rights of men to this spe6ies of
property, (copyright) independently of statutory provisions, are
in question, they retain all their rights to such property, notwithstanding the public have iimocently got possession of it,
and evenwith the author's consent, and there surely can be no
difference, when we go back to natural rights at common law,
whether the property is the subject of a copyright or of a
,patent, whether it be a book or a machine: the public, having
got the use or possession, must have as much right to make
copies of the book as of the machine, both are the produce of
the mind. This view is taken merely to show that this species
of property has been treated as subject to the same rules of law
as other kinds of property, i. e. except so far as the statute
makes a difference. .Nowit is admitted, that under -the statute,
neither the pirate, nor any one participating in his piracy, can
acquire any rights against the inventor. And why" Because
the same rules of justice which apply to all other kinds of property, are applied by the courts to this, as being the intention
of the statute, although against its letter. But why stop at the
pirate, and say that you will not extend the rule to the public,
when they have. innocently got the possession? Do you stop
thus as to other kinds of propertyl No. You say, no one,
however innocent of the fraud, can become the lawful proprietor.
Why, then, not carry the principle to its full extentQ How can
it be inferred that the statute intends to go a part of the way
of a general principle, and there stopQ The principle is a rule
drawn by analogy from other kinds of property, on the ground
that, the analogy being general, the rule should be so too.
But the analogy is also complete between this and other kinds
of -property, and the rule ought therefore to be complete, and
applied in its full extent.
But there is even a stronger reason why this principle of law
should be applied to this species of property in its full extent,

SUPREME COURT.
[Shaw v. Cooper.]

rather than to the case of a bona fide purchaser of any other
kind. There he has paid a consideration, an equivalent. It
is a hard case, one of two innocent persons must suffer. Not
so here. What does the public lose 2 That which has cost it
nothing; for which it has given no equivalent: and all we seek
of -hem is the consideration, the eqiuvalent, which they have
never yet paid to any one.
But if we examine the American cases on this subject prior
to Pennock v. Dialogue, we shall find that the principle has
'always been applied to inventions, in its full extent.
The counsel then proceeded to examine the following cases,
and argued that they fully sustained the principles claimed
for the plaintiff in error. Whettemore v. Cutter, 1 Gall. 482;
Goodyear v. Mathews, 1 Paine's Rep. 301, Morris v. Huntington,. 1 Paine -354', Mellers.v. Silsbee, 4 Mason's Rep. 108;
Treadwell v. Bladen, 4 Wash. C. C. R. 703.
The bill of exceptions. says, "that the plaintiff assigned as a
reason for delaying to patent it (the invention), that it was
not so perfect as he wished to make it before he introduced it
to public use, and that he did make alterations in his invention up to about the date of his patent4 which some witnesses
considered as improvements, and others did not."
This was sulffcient to account for the delay, and it is ummportant whether the alterations were improvements or not, for
he was trying to make them, and said that was his motive for
the delay, and the motive for the delay is the only question,
1 Paine's Rep. 354.
The patent granted to Forsyth, in England, which gave him
the exclusive right to use the percussion powders in any mode
down to April 1821, accounts for our not taking out a patent
in England.
Finally, the counsel for the plaintiff in error contended.
1. That if the rights of the patentee were the same as under
anordinary citizen _patent, then he had never dedicated or
abandoned his invention to the public; and that there has been
no'use of it which invalidates his patent.
2. That his rights are the same as those under an ordinary
citizen's patent, the patent having been granted under the citizen's act, and not being affected by the previous vacated patent.

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Shaw v. Cooper.]
S. That oven if he is to be considered as having a patent
under the alieu act, his rights, under the circumstances of this
case, are the same as if it was a citizen's patent.
In conclusion, he remarked, that the jury found their verdict entirely under the charge of the court, considering that
the charge, as to-the points of law, precluded them from finding a verdict for, the plaintiff; however well they might be
satisfied upon every matter of fact. It was believed the jury,
as well as-the court, were entirely satisfied that the plaintiff
was the'inventor, and that his invention had. been used without his knowledge or suspicion, and that he had never disclosed it, except in confidence, and under the strictest mjunctions of secrecy.
The letter from plaintiff to defendant should not have been
put in the bill of exceptions, because it only presented questions of fact purely, not affecting any of the points of la on
winch the court charged the jury. This court will not regard
a mere isolated fact, when it is apparent" that all the facts of
the case are not given, but only such as are essential to show
how the jury were chatged as to the law It is impossible for
this court to say how the jury would have fourld upon the
whole evidence. It is stifficient to add, thal the meaning of
thiat letter was satisfactorily explained to the jury by the plaintill's counsel. It was explained, that the knowledge of his
inyention, lnch the plaintiff in that letter says he commumcated to "Manton and others," was simply the knowledge of
the fact, that he had made an important invention, without disclosing what it was. On any other supposition, this letter was
contradicted by all, the rest of the evidence m the case, and the
uniform conduct of.the plaintiff.
Mr Emmtt, for the defendant in error.
The bill of exceptions in this cause, discloses in substance
the following case-:
In 1813 or 1814, the plaintiff, residing. in England, invented
what he claims to -be .ecured-to him by his patent. Between
that time and his coming to the United States, he made Ins invention known to his brother, also to Mr Manton, a gun-maker
in London, aid others-as is shown by his letter to defendant.
VOL. VII.--2 0

SUPREME COURT.
[Shaw v. Cooper.]

In 1817 the plaintiff came to the United States, and shortly
dfterwards disclosel his secret to a gunmaker in F'hikdelphia.
'In 1817 or 1818, plaintiff's brother sold thegecrer& to a gunmaker in London.
In 1819, the invention was sold and used in England.
In 1820 or 1821, it was in general use by the public there.
In 1821, it was in general use in France.

In 1822, (19th June), plaintiff took out his first V.Lrent a- an
alien, under the act of 1800.
In 1829, (7th May), he surrendered that patent as defective,
and took out a new one with an amended specification, as a
citizen, under the act of 1793, upon which patent ns suit is
brought.
The case also sets forth, that in April 1807, a patent had
been granted in England to one Forsyth, for an invention on
the same subject, and that such patent continued in force for
fourteen years; or until April 1831., This was offered bytbe
plaintiff, and made a part of the case, for the purpose, doubtless,
of accounting for -his not having taken out a patent for his
mv.ention in England previous to 1817, the terms of Forsyth's
patent being, as he supposed, sufficiently- cbmprehensive to
embrace his discovery, and to tie up his hands duning its continuance.
From these facts, it would at least appear that the public
hua somewhere become fully possessed of the use of the invention, and that they had enjoyed such use for not less than
about two"years before the plaintiff took any teps to obtain his
first patent.
Without stopping now to inquire what should be considered
as the public in respect to a case of this kind, let us examine
how far the acts of the plaintiff himself have precluded him
from ever controverting the right of that public to the use of
the thing in question.
The principle upon which prevwus public vse of- an invention
invlsidates a patent, undoubtedly is, that the inventor can no
longer give airy ebnszdv0i6n or equivalent for the exclusive privilege dauned by him, and the law, to sustain a principle so
necessary and juet in itself, presumes an abandonment by.the
inventor. Tiis abandonment niay be either adual. as by

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Shaw v. Cooper.]

voluntary dedication, or consructive, as by negligence or unreaso.
able delay. Paijie's Rep. 300.
In the present case, can it be pretended that there was neither negligence, nor unreasonable delay? The plaintiff would
have it appear, that up to 1822 he was maturing his invention,
and yet what he then took out a patent for, was the very thing,
and no improvement upon that, which for two or three years
previous had been generally known and used in England and
France. But. admitting. this explanation to stand for what it
is worth,'how does it tally with his other ground of excuse.
He says 1orsyth's patent restrained him, in England. Be it
so--and what is the fair mferencel Why, that if it -had not
been for Forsyth's patent, he would have applied there for one
before'1817, and if-he would, his invention was matured'before
he came to the United States; and. nothing but his alienism
stood in' the way of his.applying for a patent immediately after
his amval. Being an alien, the law required him to delay
two years. -In 1819, therefore, he might and ought to havetaken out his patent; and if he had done so, he would have
anticipaied the public use of the invention in Englandand
France. But he, delayed until 1822, a-period of three years.
His own story shows that such delay was 'without sufficient
cause. It was, therefore, unreasonable, and the law in protection of the right acquired in the mean time by theopublic, 'construes his acts into an abandonment.
It -would appear that, even to the mind of the plaintiff's
counsel, this view of the case is conclusive, unless the fact of
the inventiorn having got into public use before the first patent
was taken out, can be shaken, for they say, that the use, in
this ease, was not an .fmercan, but a foreign use, and therefore not a use by the lublic, who contest their exclusive right.
This distinction is directly opposed to the'act of 1800, Which
uses the language " known or used, in this or any foreign
country:" and it is equally opposed to the intent and meaning
of the act of 1793. We are perfectly willing to admit that..M
this respcct, the construction of both acts should be the same;
and that the proviso at the end o the first-section of the act.of
1800 applies to every patent, whether obtained'under that act or
the act of 1798. In tie words of Mr Justice Story, the act of

SUPREME COURT
[Shaw v. Cooper.]

1800 affords, in this respect, a gloss or explanation of the original
act. Pennock v. Dialogue, 2 Petmes S. C. Rep. 22. This only
tends to show, that if the plaintiff had been a citizen m 1822,
and had-taken out his first patent under the act of 1793, his
case would have been just as objectionable as it is now. But
where do the plaintiff's counsel -find any law for such a distinction between American and foreign public use, or how could
it be sustained on prmciplel If dhe doctrine be a sounild one,
it would go to this extent-I dedicate my invention to the public in Europe, the European public being thus legally possessed
of it, the article is manufactured and exported in large quantities; I immediately come over here, take out a patent, and
prevent the use of the article in the United States, thereby
prohibiting the European public fiom engaging in a traffic or
commerce which was an immediate incident to my own grant
or dedication to them.
The impolicy of recognizing such a distinction,would afford
a sufficient argument against it, even if the terms of the statute
were not explicit, and -if nothing had ever fallen from the
bench to give a construction to the expression "public use."
But there is positive and high authority on this subject. Lord
Chief Justice Gibbs says, "to entitle a man to a patebat, the
invention must be new to the world." 1 Holt N. P Rep. 58.
And'such, we-submit, is the settled law on this point.
It wouldseem to be of little importance in this cause to discuss the.plaintiff's position "that the second patent is original
and independent, and not a continuation: of the first patent;"
because the only object of disconnecting the two patents in
this case, -vouldbe to rescue ihe second patent from the operation of the act of 1800, under which the first patent was taken,
(the judge having charged the jury that the act of 1800 was
sufficient to control the case). Now, we not only admit that
the act of 1793 should receive a similar construction with that
of 1800, as to premous knowledge or.use of an invention, but the
plaintiff's counsel labour to establish this very ground. Their
position, however, is not a correct one. The object of canceling a first patent, and taking out a second, is not to take a
fresh start for the term of years during which the law allows
th3 exclusive right to be conferred. It is to enable the inventor

JANUARY TERM 1833.
(Shaw v. Cooper.]

to enjoy, for the remander of that term, the privilege winch was
ortginally zntended to be granted. And in tins view, even if
the construction of the two acts was different, we apprehend
that the judge laid down the law correctly, viz. that the plaintiffs rights depended upon the state of things in 1822, and
upon the act of 1800.
It is only necessary to follow the plaintiff's argument on ins
third point, to perceive the impediment winch the first section
of the act of 1800, taken either in reference to that act only,
or as explanatory of the act of 1793, offers to his case. To
get rid of tns difficulty, it is in substance contended by ins
counsel, that the legislature did not mean what they have said
m this section, when certain cases came to be considered, and
that tie positive and unequivocal language used by them is,
in tins respect, unimportant. Now, the very fact that this
section was intended. to be declaratoryof the law n all cases,
whether arising under that, or the former act of 1793, shows
that the explicit language used, was considered to- be allimportant by the legislature; and it certainly was not contemplated that tins explicit language should be frittered away to
suit particular cases.
If the facts of tins case, as we have endeavoured to show,
make out n.gligence or unreasonable delay on the part of the
plaintiff in taking out his patent and that-such negligence or
unreasonable delay amounts in Im to an abandonment; the case
is disposed of. We contend also that the delay was not accounted for; the alleged reason for it being virtually contradicted by the testimony offered'to make out ins case,; and further, that the finding of the jury is coiclusive as to this point.
The intent of the delay of the patent, and whether the
allowing the invention to be used without a patent, should not
be considered. an abandonment, or a present of it to the public,
are questions for the jury. Mors v. Huntington, Paine's
Rep. 22.
The principles which we contend for, being recogiized in
many. of the cases cited on the part of the plaintiff, (particularly the case of Pennock v. Dialogue), it has been deemed
unnecessary to refer to those cases more particulhrly. If the

SUPREME COURT.
[Shaw v. Cooper.)

charge of the judge was not etroneous as to the law, there can
be no grounal for. granting a' new trial.
Mr Justice M'Luw delivered the opinion of the Court.
This writ of error brings before tins court, for its revision, a
judgment of the- circuit court of the United States for the
southern -district of New York.
An action was brought in the circuit court by Shaw against
the defendant Cooper, for the violation of a certain patent
right, claimed by the plaintiff. The defendant pleaded the
general issue, and, gave notice that on the trial ha would
prove "that the pretended new and u~pful improvement in
guns and fire arms, mentioned and referred to in the several
counts in the declaration, also that the said pretended new
and useful improvement, or the esseAtial. parts or portions
thereof, or some or one of thepn, had been known and used in
this country, vi2. in the city of New York and in, the city of
.Philadelphia, and in sundry other places m the United States,
and in England, in France, and in other foreign countries, before the plaintiff's application for a patent as set forth in his
deolaration," &c.
On the trial, the following bill. of exceptions was -taken
"to maitain the issue joined, the plaintiff gave in evience
certam letters patent of the United States, as set forth in the
.declaration, issued on the 7th day of May 1829; and also that
the improvement for which the letters were granted, was invented or discovered by the plaintiff in 1813 or 1814;-and that
the defendant had sold instruments which -were infringements
of-the said letters patent.
"1And the defendant then proved, by the testimony of one
witness, that he had used the said improvement in England,
.and had purchased a -gun of the kind there, and had seen
others use the said improvement, and had seen guns of the
kind in the duke of York's anoury in 1819. Anna also proved
by the testimonyof five other witnesses, that, in 1820 and 1821.
they worked in England at the business of making and repairing guns, and-that the "said improvement was generally used
in England in. those years; but that they had never seen guns

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Shaw-v. Cooper.]

of the kind prior to ihose years and also proved that in the
year 1821, it was used and known in France, and also tht
the said improvement was generally known and used 'in the
United States after the 19th day of June.1822.
"IAnd the plaintiff further to maintain the issue on is part,
then gave m evidence, that he not being a worker in iron in
1813 or 1814, employed his brother in Efigland, under strict
,njunctions of secrecy, -to execute or fabricate the said improvement for the purpose of making.experiments. And that the
plaintiff afterwards, in 1817,-left England and came to reside
in the United States; and that after his departure from England, m 1817 or 1818, his said brother divulged the secret for
a certain reward to an eminent gun maker'in-London. That
on the arrival of the plaintiff in this country, in 1817, he disclosed his said improvement to a -gun maker, whom he consulted as to obtaining a patent for the same and whom he
wished to engage to join and assist him. That the plaintiff
made this disclosure under.rnjunctions of secrecy, claiming the
improvement as his own, declaring that he should patent it.
That the plaintiff treated his invention as a secret after his
arrval in this country, often declaring that he should patent
it, and that this step was only delayed, that he.might make
it more perfect before it was introduced into public use and
that he did make alterations which some witnesses considered
improvements in his invention, and others did not. That in
this countrythe invention was neverknown nor used prior to the
said 19th day of June 1822,; that on that day letters patentwere
issued to the.plaintiff, being then an alien, and that he imnediately brought his invention into public use. That afterwards, and after suits had been brought for a violation of-the
said letters patent, the plaintiff was adVised to surrender them
on account of the specification being defedtive, and that'he
did accordifigly, on the 7th day-of May in the year 1829, surrender the same into the department of the secretary of state,
and eceived the letters patent first above named.
"1Aid the plaintiff also gave in evidence, that pfior to the
19tth day of Jume 1822, the principal importers of guns from
England'in New York and Philadelphia, at the latter of which
cities the plaintiff resided, had never heard any thing of the;

SUPREME COURT.
[Shaw v. cooper.]

said invention, or that the same was used or known in England, and that no guns of the .kind -were. imported into this
country, until in the years 1824 or 1825. And that letters
patent were granted in England on the 11th day of April
1807, to one Alexander J. Forsyth, for a method of discharging or giving fire to artillery and all other fire arms, which
method he describes 'in his specification as consisting in the
Iuse or application as a priming, in any mode, of some or ope
of those chemical compounds which are so easily inflammable
as to be capable of taking fire and exploding without any actual fire being applied thereto,, and merely by a blow, or by
any sudden or strong pressure or friction given or applied
thereto, without -extraordinary violence, that is to say, some
one of the compounds of combustible matter, such as sulphur
or sulphur and charcoal, with an oxmunatic salt, for example,
the salt formed of dephlogisticated marine acid and potash (or
potasse), which salt is otherwise called oxinunate of potash,
or such of the fulminating metallic compounds as may be used
with safety, for example, fulminating mercury, or of common
gunpowder-mixed in due quantity with any of the above mentioned substances, or with any oxinunatic salt;.as aforesaid, or of
suitable mixtures of any of the before mentioned compounds;'
and that the said letters patent continued in force for the penod of fourteen years from the time of granting the same."
And the defendant, further to mintain the issue on his put,
gave in evidence a certain letter, from the plaintiff to the defendant, dated in December in the year 1824, from which the followingis an extract: "some time since I stated that I had employed
counsel respecting regular prosecutions for any trespass against
my rights to the patent, I have at length obtained the opinion
of Mr Sergeant of this city, together with others eminent in
the law, and that is, that I ought (with a view to insure success) to visit England, and procure the affidavits of Manton
and others, to whom I made my invention known, and also of
the person whom I employed to make the lock at the time of
invention, for it appears very essential that I should prove
that I did actually reduce the principle to practice, otherwise a
verdict might be doubtful. It is, therefore, my intention to
visit England in May next for this purpose, in the mean time

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Siaw v. Cooper.]

proceedings which have commenced here are suspended for the
necessary time:"
And the court, on.these facts, charged the jury that the patent of the 7th of May 1829, having been issued, as appears
by.its recital, on the surrender and cancelment of the patent.
of the 19th day of June in the year 1822, and being intended
to correct a mistake or remedy a defect in the latter, it must
be considered as a continuation of the said patent, and the
rights of the plaintiff weie to be determined by the state 6f
thinga which existed in the year 1822, when the patent was
first obtained..
That the plaintiffs case, therefore, came under the act
passed the 17th day of April 1800, extending the right of obtaming patents to aliens, by the first section of which the applicaut is required- to make oath, that his invention has not, to
the best of his knowledge or belief, been known or used in this
or any foreign country. That the plaintiff most probably did not
know, in the year 1822, that the invention for which he was taking out a patent, had, before that time, been in use in, a foreign
country, but that his knowledge or ignorance on that subject
was rendered immaterial by the concluding part of the section,
which expressly declares, that every patent obtained pursdant
to that act, for any invention which it should afterward appear
had been known or used previous to such application for a
patent, should be utterly void. That there was nothing in
the act confinng such use to the United States, and that, if
the invention was previously known in England or France, it
was sufficient to avoid the patent under that act. That the
evidence would lead to the conclusion that the plaintiff was
the inventor in this case, but the court were of opinion that he
had slept too long on his rights, and not followed them up as
the law requires, to entitle him to any benefit from his patent.
That the use of the invention, by a person who had pirated it,
or by others who knew of the piracy, would not affect the inventor's rights, but that the law was made for -thebenefit of
the public as well as of the inventor, and if, as appears from
the evidence in this casey the public had fairly become possessed of the invention before the plaintiff applied for his patent,
it was sufficient, in the opinion of the court, to invalidate the
VOL. VII.-2 P

-

SUPREME COURT.
[Shaw.v. Cooper.]
patent, even though the invention may have originally got
into public use through the fraud or rmsconduct of his brother,
to whom he entrusted the knowledge of it.
Under this charge the jury found a verdict for the defendant, on which a judgment was entered.
There is a general assignment of errors, which brings to the
Zonsideration of the court the principles of law which aise
out of the facts of the case, as stated in the bill of exceptions.
It may be proper, m the first place, to inquire whether the
letters patent which were obtained in 1829, on a surrender of
the first patent, have relation to the emanation of the patent in
1822, or sha'll be considered as having been issued on an onginal application.
On the part of the plaintiff it is contended, that "the second
patent is original and independent, and not a continuation of
the first patent." That in adopting the policy of giving, for a
term of years, exclusive rights to inventbrs in this country, we
adopted at the same- time the rules of the common law as ap"pliedto patents in England-, and that by the common law,
a patent when, defective may be surrendered to the granting
power, which vacates the right under it, and the king may
grant the right de novo either -to the same or to any other person.
This being the effect of the surrender of a patent in England, it is insisted, that the same consequence should follow a
surrender in this country On this subject it is said, that the
decisions of the English courts are uniform, and that not even
,a dictum can be found, that a second patent is a continuation
of the first.
Tfie counsel seems to consider this point of great importance,
as the plaintiff was an alien when the first patent was obtained,
but had become naturalized before the.date-of the second;
and, consequently, that his rights under the second patent,
cannot be governed by the law applicable to aliens. As the
inuiry oii this head is, whether the second patent has relation
to'the first, it is not necessary to look into the laws to ascertain'
the respective rights of aliens and citizens on this subject. In
regard to the right of 'the patentee to surrender a defective pateftt, and take out a new one, there can be no difference between a citizen and an alien.

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Shaw v. Cooper.)

That. the holder of a defective patent may surrender it to
the department of state, and obtain a new one, which shall
have relation to the emanation of the first, was decided by
this court at the last term in the case of Grant and others v.
Raymond, 6 Peters, 220. The chief justice, in giving the.
opinion of the court, says, "but the new patent, and the proceedings on which it issues, have relation to the original transaction. The time of the privilege still runs from the date of
the original patent. The application may be considered as
appended to the original aoplication, and if the new patent is
valid, the law must be considered as satisfied, if the machine
was not known or used before that application."
As this decision must be considered as settling the construction of the patent laws on this point, it is conclusive in the
present case: and it is therefore unnecessary to examine the
argument of the plaintiff's counsel, which was designed to
lead to a different conclusion.
The second patent being a continuation of the first one, the
rights of the plaintiff must be ascertained by the law under
which the original application was made.
This law was passed on the 17th of April 1800, and provides "that all and singular the rights and privileges given to
citizens of the United States respecting patents for new inventions, &c. shall be extended to aliens, who,-at the time-of petitioning, shall have resided for two years within the United
States, &c. Provided, that every person petitioning for a
patent for any invention, art or discovery, pursuant to this act,
shall make oath or .affirmation before some person duly authorized to administer oaths, before such patent shall be granted,
that such invention, art or discovery, hath not, to thp best of
his or her knowledge or belief, been known or used, either in
this or any foreign country; and that every patent which shall
be obtained pursuant to this act, for any invention, art or discovery, which it shall afterwards appear had been known or
used previous to such application for a patent, shall be utterly
void."
Bv the act of the 21st of February 1793, wluch limits patent
rights to citizens, it is provided "that every person or persons,

SUPREME COURT.
[Shaw v. Cooper.]

Inlhs or their application for a patent. shall state that. the machine, &c. was not known or used before such application."
The sixth section of this act provides that a defendant, when
prosecuted for a violation of a patent nght, may give in evidence, under a notice, among other matters, "that the thing
secured by patent was not originally discovered by the patentee,
but had been in use, or had been described in some public
work anterior to the supposed discovery of the patentee, or that
hb had' surreptitiously obtained a patent for the discovery of
another. person: m either of which cases, judgment shall be
rendered for the defendant with costs, and the patent shall be
declared void."
It would seem, from the above provisions, that citizens and
aliens, as to, patent rights, are placed substantially upon the
same ground. In either case, if the invention was known ot
-used -by the public before it was patented, the patent is void.
In both cases the right must be tested by the same rule.
From the facts in the case, it appears that the plaintiff,
vhile residing in England, in 1813 or 1814, invented the instrument secured by his patent. That before he came to the
United States, he made known his invention to his brother, to
Mr Manton, a gun maker in London, and to others. That
shortly after he came to the-United States, in 1817, he disclosed
his .invention to a -gun maker in Philadelphia, and that in
1817 or 1818, the plaintiff's brother sold the invention to a gun
makerim London. That in 1819 the invention was sold and
used in England, and that in the two following years it was
in public use there, and in the latter year also in France.
That on the 19th of June 1822, his first patent was obtained.
It also appears that in April 1807, a patent was granted in
England to one Forsyth for fourteen years, for an invention on
the same subject. This fact was shown by the plaintiff, it is
presumed, as a reason why he did not take out a patent in
England.
The question arises from these facts, and others which belong
to the case, whether there was such a use in the public, of this
invention, at the date of the plaintiff's first patent, as to render
it void.

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Shaw v. Cooper.]

By the plaintiff's counsel it is insisted, that if an invention
has been pirated, or fraudulently divulged, the inventor cannot
thereby lose Ins right to his own invention and property; and
it makes no difference that the public have acquired the use of
the invention-without any participation in the fraud, unless the
inventor has -acquiesced in such use.
The right of the plaintiff to his invention, is compared to his
right to other property, -which cannot be divested by fraud or
violence, and the case of Miller v. Taylor, 4 Burr. 2303,
where seven judges against four held, that at common law, an
author, by'publishing a literary composition, does not abandon
his right, is referred to as illustrative of the principle.
Several decisions by the circuit courts of the United States
are cited to sustain the right of the plaintif. In the case of
Whittemore v. Cutter, 1 Gall. 482, the court say, "it will not
protect the plaintiff's patent, that he was the inventor of the
improvements, if he suffered them to be used freely and fully
by the public at large for so- many years, combined with all
the usual machinery; for in such case, he must be deemed to
have made a gift of them to the public, as much as a person
who voluntarily opens is land as a highway, and suffers it to
remain for a length of time devoted to public use."
In the case of Goodyear v. Matthews, 1 Paine's Rep. 801,
the court, in substance, say, "that if the plaintiff be the inventor, it is immaterial that the invention has been known and
used for years before the application." And in the case of
Moms v. Huntington, 1.Paine, 354, the court say, that "no
man is to be permitted to. lie by for years, and then take out a
patent. Ifhe has been practising his invention-with a view of
improving it, and thereby rendering it a greater benefit to the
public, before taking out a patent, that ought not to prejudicehim. But it should always be a question submitted to the jury,
what was the intent of the delay,of the patent, -and whether
the allowing the invention to be used without a patent, should
not be considered an abandonment .or present of it to the

public."
This was a case where a second patent had been obtained,.
the first being difoctive, and this, it would seem, was deemed
sufficient to protect the right of the plaintiff,. though. the public.

-SUPREME COURT.
[Shaw v. Cooper.]

had been repossession of the inventionfor six years before the
emanation of the second patent.
Of the same import are the cases cited from 4 Mason, 108,
anh~4 Washington, 438 and 703.,
The question wvhat use in the public before the application
is made for a patent, shall make void the right of the patentee,
was brought before this court by the case of Pennock and Sel-lars v. Dialogue, reported in 2 Peters, 1 In this case the
court say that "it has not, been, and indeed cannot be denied,
that an inventor may abandon his invention and surrender or
dedicate it to the -public. This inchoate right, thus gone,
cannot afterwards be resumed at his pleasure, for when gifts
are once made to the public in this way, they become absolute."
And again, "if an invention is used by the public, with the
consent of the inventor, at the time of his application fot a
,yatent, how can the court say, that his case is nevertheless
such as the act was intended to protect I If such a public use
is not a use within the meaning of the statute, how can the
court extract the case from its operation, and support a patent,
when the suggestions of the patentee were not true, and the
ccudition on which alone the. grant was authorized, do not
exist."

"The true construction of the patent law is," the court say,
"1that the first inventor cannot acquire a good title to a patent
if he suffers the thing invented to go into public use, or to be
publicly sold for use before he makes application for a patent."
In this case it appeared that the,thing invented had been
m use by the public, with the consent of the inventors, and
through which they derived a profit, for seven years before the
emanation of a patent. And this use was held by the court to
be an abandonment of the right by the patentees.
The policy of granting exclusive privileges m certain cases,
was deemed of somuch importance in a natiinal point of view,
that power was given to congress in the federal constitution,
"9to promote the progress of science and useful arts, by securing
for limited times, to authors and inventors, the exclusive right
to their respective writings and discoveries."
This power was exercised by congress, in the passage of the
acts which have beesi referred to. And from an examination of

JANUARY TERM 1833.
(Shaw v. Cooper.]

their various provisions..it clearly appears, that it'was the mtention-of the legislature, by a compliance with the requisites of the
law, to vest the exclusive fight in the inventor only, and that
on condition, that his invention was neither known nor used by
the public, before his application for a patent. If such use or
knowledge shall be proved to -have existed, prior to the application for the patent, the act of 1793 declares the patent void;
and as has been already stated, the right of an alien is vacated
in the am manner, by proving a foreign use or knowledge of
his invention. That knowledge or use which would be fatal
to the patent right of a citizen, would be equally so to the right
of an alien
The knowledge or use spoken of in the act of 1793, could
have referred to the public only, for the provision would be
nugatory if it were applied to the inventor himself. He must,
necessarily, have a perfect knowledge of the thing -invented
and its use, before he can describe it, as by law he is required
to do, preparatory to the emanation of a patent. But there
may be cases, in which a knowledge of the invention may be
surreptitiously obtained and commumcated to the public, that
do not affect the. right of the inventor. Under such circumstances no presumption can arse infavour of an abandonment of
the right to the public, by the inventor; though an acquiescence
on his part, will lay the foundation for such a presumption.
In England it has been decided that if an inventor shall
suffer the thing invented to be sold,. and go into public use :for
four months, and in a later case for any period of time, before
the date of his patent, it is utterly void.
In that country the right emanates from the royal prerogative, in this, it is founded exclusively on statutory provisions.
But the policy in both governments is the same, in granting
the right, and in fixfng its limits.
Vigilance is necessary to entitle an individual to the privileges secured under the patent law. It is not.enough that he
should show his right by invention, but he must secure it in
the mode required by law. And if the invention, through
fraudulent means, shall be made known to the public, he should
.assert his right immediately, and take the necessary steps, to
legalize it.

SUPREME COURT.
[Shaw v. Cooper.]
The patent law was designed for the public benefit, as well
as for the benefit of inventors. For a valuable invention, the
public, on the inventor.s complying with certain conditions,
give hun, for a linted period, the'profits arising from the sale
of -the thing invented. This holds out an inducement for the
exercise of gemus and skill in making discoveries which may
be useful to society, and profitable to the discoverer. But it
was *notthe intention of this law, to take from the public, that
of which theywere fairly in possession.
In the progress of society, the range of discoveries ia the
mechanic arts, in science, and in all things which promote the
public convenience, as a matter of course, will be enlarged.
This results from the aggregation of mind, and the diversity
of talents and pursuits, ,which exist in every intelligent community. And it would be extremely impolitic to retard or embarrass this advance, by withdrawing from the public any
useful invention or art, and malng it a subject of private monopoly. Against this consequence, the legislature have carefully guarded in the laws they have passed on the subject.
It is undoubtedly just that every discoverer should relize
the benefits resulting from his discovery, for the period contemplated by law. But these can only be secured by a substantial compliance With every legal requisite. His exclusive
right does not rest alone upon his discovery; but also upon the
legal sanctions which have been given to it, and the forms of
law with which it has been clothed.
No matter by what means an invention Inay be communlcated to the public, before a patent is obtained, any acqiescence in the public use, by the inventor, will be an abandonment of his right. If the right were asserted by him who
fraudulently obtained it, perhaps no lapse of time could give it
validity. But the public stand in an entirely different relation
to the inventor.
The invention passes into the possession of innocent persons,
who have no knowledge of the fraud, anO. at a considerable
expense, perhaps, they appropriate it to teir own use. The
inventor or his agent has full Imowledge of these facts, but
fails to assert his right shall he kfterwards be permitted to
assert it with effect I Is not -this such evidence of acquies-

JANUARY TERM 1833.
EShaw v. Cooper.]

cence in the public use, on his part, as justly forfeits his
nght2
If an individual witness a sale and tran!fer of real estate,
ander certain circumstances, in which he has an equitable
lien or interest, and does not make known this interest, he
shall not: afterwards be permitted to assert it. On this pnnciple it is, that a discoverer -abandons his right, if,
before the
obtainment of his patent, his discovery goes into public use.
His right would be secured'by giving public notice that he
was the inventor of the thing used, and that he should apply
for a patent. Does this impose any thing more than reasonable diligence on the inventor z And would any thing short
of this, be just to the public I
The acquiescence of an inventor in the public use of his
invention, can in no case be presumed, vwhere he has no knowledge of such use. But thig knowledge may be presumed
from the circumstances of the case. This will, in general, be
a fact for the jury. And if the inventor do not, immediately
after this notice, assert his right, it is such evidence of acquiescence in the public use, as for ever afterwards to prevent hun
from asserting it. After his right shall be perfected by a
patent, no presumption arises against it from a subsequent use
by the public.
When an inventor applies to the department ot state for a
patent, he should state the facts truly, and indeed 'he is-required to do so, under the solemn obligations of an oath. .If
his invention has been carried into public use by fraud, but
for a series of-months or years, he has taken no steps to assert
his right, would not this afford such evidence of acqiescence
as to defeat his application, as effectually, as ifhe failed tostate that he was the oiginal inventor 2 And the same evidence which should defeat his application for a patent, would,
at any subsequent period,.be fatal to his right. The evidence
he exhibits to the department of state is not only ex parte, but
-interested ,.and the questions of fact are left open, to be controverted by any one who shall think proper to contest the right
under the patent.
A strict construction of the act, as it regards the public use
of an" invenition, before it is patented, is not only required
VOL. VII. -2 Q.

SUPREME COURT
[Shaw v. Cooper.]

by its letter and spirit, but also by. sound policy. A term of
fourteen years was deemed sufficient for the enjoyment of an
exclusive right of an invention by the. inventor, but if he may
delay an application for hi patent, at pleasure, although his
invention be carried into public use, he may extend the period
beyond what the law intended to give him. A pretence of
fraud would afford no adequate security to the public in this
respect, as artifice might be used -to cover the transaction.
The doctrine of presumed acquiescence, where the public use
is known, or might be known to the inventor, is the only safe
rule which can be adopted on this subject.
In the case under consideration it appears the plaintiff came
to this country, from England, in the year 1817, and being an
alien, he could not apply for a patent until he had remained
in the country two years. There was no legal obstruction tQ
his obtaining a patent in the year 1819, but it seems that he
failed to applyfor one, untk three years -fter he-might have
done so. Had he used proper diligence I this espect his
.right might have been secured, as his invention was not sold
in England until the year 1819. But, in the two following
'years, it is proved to have been in public use tht te, qnd in e
latter year, also in France.
Under such circumstances, can the plaintiff's right be sustained'
His counsel assigns as a reason for not making an earlier
application, that he was endeavourmg to make his invention
more perfect, but it seems by this delay, he was not enabled,
essentially, to vary or improve it; The plan is substantially
the same as was carried into public use through the brother
of the plaintiff, in -England. Such an excuse, therefore, cannot avail the plaintiff. For three years, before the emanation
of his patent, his invention was'in publiL se, and lie appears
to have taken no step to assert has right. Indeed he sets up,
as-a part of his case, the patent to Forsythe, as a reason why
he did not apply for a patent in England.
The Forsythe patent was dated six years before. Some of
the decisions of the circuit courts, which are referred to, were
verruled in the, case of Pennock and Sellers v. Dialogue.
They made the question of abandonment to turn upon the

JANUARY TERM 1833.

323

[Shaw v. Cooper.1
intention of the inventor. But such is not considered to be
the true ground. Whatever may be the intention of the
inventor, if"he suffers his invention to go into public usethrough -any means whatsoever, without an .immediate assertion of his right, heis not entitled to a patent, nor will a patent.
obtained under such circumstances, protect his right.
The judgment of the circuit court must be affirmed With
costs.

This-cause came on to be heard on the transenpt bf the
record from the circuit court of the United States for the southem district of New York, and was axgued by counsel. on consideration whereof, it is adjudged and oreered by this court,
that the judgment of the said circuit court in this cause be,
and the same is hereby affirmed with costs.

