276

SUPREME COURT.

CHARLES A. DAVIS, CONSUL-GENERAL OF THE KING OF SAXONY, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR V. ISAAC PACKARD, HENRY DisDIER AND WILLIAM MURPHY, DEFPNDARTS.

The record of the proceedings in this case, brought up with the writ of
error to the court for the correction of errors of the state of New York,
showed that the suit was-commenced in the supreme court of the state of
New York, and that the plaintiff in error, who was consul-general of the
king of Saxony, did not plead or set up his exemption from such suit in
the supreme court; but, on the cause being carried up to the court for the
correction of errors, this knatter was assigned for error in fact; notwithstanding which, the court of errors gave judgment against the plaitiff in
error. The court of errors of New York having decided that the character of consul did not exempt the plaintiff in error from being sued in the
state court, the judgment of the court of errors was reversed.
As an abstract question, it is difficult to understand on what ground a state
court can claim jurisdiction of civil suits against foreign consuls. Bythe
constitution, the ju ticial power of the United States extends to all cases
affecting ambassad irs, other public inuisters and consuls; and the judiciary act of 1789 gives to the district courts of the United States, exdu-.
mtvly of Ifi courts of the =al states, jurisdiction of all suits against consuls and vice-consuls, except for certain offences enumerated in the act.
It has been repeatedly ruled in this court, that the court can look only to
the record to ascertain what was decided in the court below.
Matter assigned in the appellate court as error in fact, never appears upon
the record of the inferior court, if it did, it would be error in law. The
whole doctrine of allowing in the appellate court the assignment of error
m fact, grows out of the circumstance that such matter does not appear
on the record of the inferior court.
If a consul, being sued in a state court, omits to plead his privilege of exemption from the suit, and afterwards, on removing the judgment of the
inferior court to a higher court by writ of error, claims the privilege,
such an omission is not a waiver of the privilege. Ifthiswasto beviewed
merely as a personal privilege, there might be grounds for-such a conclusion, but it cannot be so considered, it is the privilege of the country
or government which the consul represents. This is the light in which
foreign ministers are considered by the law of nations, and our constitution and law seem to put consuls on the same footing in this respect.
If this privilege or exemption was merely personal, it can hardly be supposed that it would have been thought sufficiently important to require a
special provision in the constitution and laws of the United States.
Higher considerations of public policy, doubtless, led to the provision.
Itwas deemed fit and proper, that the courts of the government, with

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Davis v. Packard et al.]
whichrested theregulatioi'of foreign intercourse, should have cognizance
of suits against the representatives of such foreign governments.
The action in the supreme court of New York against the defendant, was
on a recognizance of bail, and it was contended that this was not an original proceeding,'but the continuance of a suitrightfully brought against
one who was answerable to the jurisdiction of the court in which it was
instituted, and in which the plaintiff in error became special bail for the
defendant, and therefore the act of congress did not apply to the case.
Held, that the act of congress being general ineits terms, extending to all
suits against consuls, It applied to this suit.
A suit on a recognizance of bail is an original proceeding. A scire facia,
upon a judgment, is to some purposes only a continuation of the former
suit. But an action of debt on a judgment is an original suit.
An action of debt on a recognizance of bail may be brought in a different
court from that in which the original proceedings were commenced.
ERROR to the court for the correction of errors of the state of
New York.
The defendants in error, Isaac Packard and others, instituted a suit m the supreme court of judicature of the state. of
New York against Isaac Hill and Ralph Haskins; and at
August term 1824 of that court, Charles A. Davis, the plaintiff in error, entered into a recognizance as special bail of Isaac
Hill. Judgment having been obtained against the defendant,
Isaac Hill, in that suit, the plaintiffs in the same, Isaac Packaxd and others, brought an action of debt on the recognizance
in the same court, against Charles -A. Davis. as bail, to January term 1830.
To this action Mr Davis appeared by attorney, and upon
several issues of fact and in law judgment was rendered against
him, at May term of the court, for four thousand five hundred
and thirty-eight dollars and twenty cents debt, and four hundred and sixty-nine dollars and, nine cents damages and costs.
Upon this judgment Mr-Davis prosecuted a writ of error to the
court for the correction of errors for the state of New York.
In the court for the correction of errors, the plaintiff assigned
as error, "that he, the said Charles A. Davis, at the time of
the commencement of the suit of the said Isaac Packard,
Henry Disdier and William Murphy against hihn the said
Charles A. Davis, was,,and ever since hath continued to be,
and yet is, consul-general of his mAjesty the king of Saxony,

-

SUPREME COURT.
[Davis v. Packard et a l.]

in the United States, duly admitted and approved as such by
the president of the United States. That being such, he ought
not, according to the constitution and law of the United States,
to have been impleaded in the said supreme court, but in the
district court of the United States for the southern district of
New York, or in some other district court of the said United
States;. and that the said supreme court had not jurisdiction,
and ought not to have taken to itself the cognmzance of the
said cause: therefore, in that there is manifest error. And this
he, the said Charles A. Davis, is ready to verify- wherefore, he
prays that the judgment aforesaid, for the error aforesaid, may
be revoked, annulled, and altogether held for nothing, and that
he may be restored to all things which he hath lost by occasion of the judgment aforesaid."
To this assignment of errors the defendants in the court for
the correction of errors filed the following plea.
"And the said Isaac Packard and.others, defendants in error,
before the president of the senate, senators, and chancellor of
the state of New York, in the court for the correction of errors,
at the city hall of the city of New York, by David Dudley
Field, their attorney, come and say, that there is no error in
the record and proceedings aforesaid, nor in the giving of the
judgment aforesaid, because they say, that it no where appears
by the said record, proceedings or judgment, that the said
Charles A. Davis ever was consul of the king of Saxony; and
they pray that the said court for the correction of. errors may
proceed to examine the record and proceedings aforesaid, and
the matters. aforesaid above assigned for error, and that the
judgment aforesaid may be in all things affirmed. Bat because
the court aforesaid is not yet advised what judgment to give of
aad coficermng the premises, a day, therefore, is given to the
said parties here, wheresoever, &c. to hear their judgment
thereon, for that the said court is not yet advised thereof."
"Whereupon, the said court for the correction of errors, after
having heard the counsel for both parties, and diligently examined and fully understbod the causes assigned for error, and
inspected the record and process aforesaid, did order and adjudge, that the judgment of the supreme court be in all things
affirmed, that the plaintiff take nothing by his writ, and that

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Davis v. Packard et al.]

the defendants go without day; that the defendants in error
recover against the plaintiff in error their double costs in defending the writ of error in this cause, to be taxed, and also
interest on the amount recovered; by way of damages, and
that the record be remitted, &c.
"Therefore it is considered by the said couit for the correction
of errors, that the judgment of the supreme court aforesaid,
be, and the same is hereby m all things affirmed. It is further considered that the said defendants in error recover
against the plaintiff in error them double costs, according to
the statute in such case made and provided, to be taxed in defending the writ of error in this cause, and also interest on )the
amount recovered, by way of damages. And hereupob, the
record aforesaid, as also the proceedings aforesaid in this same
court for the correction of errors m the premises had, are to the
said supreme court, wheresoever the same may be held, remitted, &c."
Upon this judgment, Mr Dafis brought the case before this
court by a writ of error.
At the January term 1832, the counsel for the defendants
in the writ df error, Mr R. Sedgwick, moved to dismiss the
writ of error for want of jurisdidtion. Mr White having appeared for the plaintiff in error, the motion, after argument,
was dismissed. 6 Peters's Reports, 41.
The case now came on for argument on the following points,
presented for the consideration of the court, by Mr White, for
the plaintiff in error.
1. The plaintiff in error being &foreign consul, the supreme
court of New York had no jurisdiction of the case.
2. The defect of the jurisdiction was not cured by appearing
and pleading to the action.
3. The court for the correction of errors in New York erred
in not receiving the plea of the plaintiff in error, and in giving
a judgment against him.
4. The judgment of the court for the correction of errors,
being the highest court of the state, and against the rights,
privilege and exemption claimed by a consul, ought to be re-

SUPREME COURT.
[Davis v. Packard et al]

versed and set aside, because it was in violation of the constitution and laws of the United States.
Mr White cited, 6 Peters, 45, 2.Laws of New York, 166,
601, 1 Binney, 138, 6 Wheat. 558, 12 John. 403, 469,
4 Wash. C. C. Rep. 482, 3 Dall. 475, 9 East, 447, 2 Peters, 157, 3 Peters, 202, 207.
To show that the actibn of debt on a recognizance of bail
was an original suit, he cited, 3 Petersdorf's Abndg. 210,
3 Salk. 205, 4 Term Rep. 355, 2 Saunders, 71, a., Tidd's
Pract. 1099, 2 Archbold's Pract. 86, 2 Marsh. 232, 1 Dow.
and Ryl. 126, 4 Eng. Com. Law Rep. 360, 16 Eng. Com.
Law Rep. 126, 18 Eng. Com. Law Rep. 212, 1 Chitty's
Rep. 713, 7 John. 318; 9 John. 80, 12 John. 459, 13 John.
424.
Mr R. Sedgwick submitted to the court a pnnted argument
for the defendants m error, in which the following points were
urged for the consideration of the court.
1. The court of errors had not jurisdiction of the question
raised by the writ of error to this court.
2. No decisiQn was made by that court upon any question
mentioned in the. twenty-fifth section of the .judiciary act.
Cited, Tidd's Pract. 1055, 1056, 3 Wend. 180, 2 Cowen, 50;
2 Wend. 145, 4 Wend. 179, 5 Revisors'Reports, 69.
The suit below having been on a recognizance of bail, was
properly brought in the supreme court. Cited, 3 Maule and
Sel. 385, 386, 6 T. R. 365, 1 Mason, 436, 3 flall. 475.
The recognizance of bail is the commencement of the proceedings in regard to the bail. The court then had jurisdiction
over the defeldant, it not appearing that he was then consul-;
and this jurisdiction could not be taken away by any subsequent appointment of defendant as consul. Cited, 4 Wash.
C. C. R. 482, 3 Dall. 475.
The defendant below should have pleaded to the jurisdiction.
Cited, Bac. Ab. Error K. 5, Hills v. Martin, 19 John. 33,
Mad. and Geld. 375, 6 Wend. 329, 1 Peters; 498.
Mr Justice THoMPSON delivered the opinion of the Court.

-JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Davis v. Packard et aL.]

The writ of error in this case brings up for review, a judgment recovered against the plaintiff in error in the court for
the correction of errors, m the state of New York. The case
was before this court at the last term (6 Peters, 41), on a motion to dismiss the writ of error for want of jurisdiction. This.
court sustained its jurisdiction under the twenty-Ijfth section of
the judiciary act, on the ground that the decision in the state
court- was against the exemption set. up by the plaintiff in
error; viz. that he being consul-general of the king of Saxony
in the United States, the state court had not jurisdiction of the
suit against him. The principal difficulty in this case seemsto grow out of the manner in which the exemption set up by
the plaintiff in error, was brought under the consideration of
the state court, and in a right understanding of the ground on
which the court decided against it.
As ah abstract question, it is difficult to understand on what
ground a state. court-can tlaim jurisdiction of civil suits against
foreign consuls. By the constitition, the judicial power of
the United States extends to all cases affecting ambassadors,
other'public ministers, and consuls, &c. And the judiciary
act of 1789 (2 Laws U. S. sec. 9) gives to the district courts of
the United. States, excluively of the courts of the several states,
.jurisdiction of all suits against consuls and vice-consuls, except
for certain offences mentioned in the act. The record sent up
with the writ of error in this case, shows that the suit was
commenced in the supreme court of the state of New York,
and that the plaintiff in error did not plead or set up his exemption in that court, but on the. cause being carried up to
the court for correction of errors, this matter -was assigned -for
error in fact, notwithstanding which the court gave judgment
against the plaintiff in error.
It has been argued here, that the exemption-mght have been
exclud1ed by the court for ihe correction of errors, on the ground
that it was waived by not having been pleaded in the supreme
court. It is unnecessary to decide definitively whether, if such
had been the ground on which ihe judgment of the state court
rested, it would take the case out of the revising power of this
court under the twenty-fifth section of the judiciary act, for
we cannot say, judging from the record, that the. judgment
VOL. VII.-2 L

SUPREME COURT.
[Davis v. Packard et aLJ

turned on this point, but, on the contrary, we think the record
does not warrant any such conclusion.
rt has been repeatedly ruled in this court, that we can look
only to the record to ascertain what was decided in the court
bdlow. The question before this court is,
whether the judg"ment was correct, not the ground on which that judgment was
given. And it is the judgment of the court of 'errors, and not
of the supreme court, with which we have to deal.
Looking then to the record, we find that when the cause
went up, upon a writ of error from the supreme court, to the
court for the correction of errors, it was assigned as error in
fact, that Charles A. Davis, before and at the time of com.menqmg the suit against him, was, and ever since has continued tobe, 'and yeft w, dnsul-general of his majesty the king of
Saxony, in the United States, duly admitted and approved as
such by the president of the.Umted States.
The record shows no objection to the time and place, when
and where this matter was set up, to show that the supreme
court of New York have not jurisdiction of the case. The
only answer to thig awgnment of errors is, that there is no

error in the record and proceedings aforesaid, nor in the giving
the judgment aforesaid, because it no where amears by the record,
proceedings or judgment, that the said Charles A. Davis ever
-Vias consul of the king of Saxony.
This was no answer to the assignment of errors. It was
not meeting or answering the matter assigned for error. It is
not alleged in the assignment of errors that it does appear, by
the proceedings or judgment in the supreme court of New
York, that Charles A. Davis was consul of the king of Saxony.
Matter assigned m the appellate court, as error in fact, never
appears upon the record of the inferior court, if it did, it would
be. error in law.
.Suppose infancy should be assigned as error in fact, would
it be any answer to say, that it no where pppeared by the record, that the defendant in the court below was an infant.
The whole doctrine of allowing in the appellate court the
assignment of error in fact, grows out of the circumstance that
such matter does not appear on the record of the inferior court.
But the 'answer to the assignment of errors prays that the

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Davis v. Packard et al.]

court for the correction of errors may proceed to examine the
record and proceedings aforesaid, and the matters aforesaid above
assignedfor error
Under this informal state of the pleadings in the court for
the correction of errors, how is this court to view the record ..
The most reasonable conclusion is, that the court disregarded
matters of form, and considered the answer of the defendants
in error as a regular joinder in error. And this conclusion is
strengthened when we look at the form of the entry of judgment. "Whereupon the said court for the correction of errors,
after having heard the counsel for both parties, and diligently
examined and fully understood the causes assigned for error,"
&c. affirms the judgment.
The only cause assigned for error was, that Charles A. Davis was consul-general of the king of Saxony, and the conclusion must necessarily follow, that this was not, in the
opimon of the court, a sufficient cause for reversing the judgment. If it had been intended to say it was not error, because
not pleaded in the court below, it would probably have been so
said. Although this might not perhaps have been strictly
technical, yet as the court gave judgment on the merits, and
did not dismiss the writ of erro it is reasonable to conclude,
that the special grounds for deciding against the exemption
set up by the plaintiff in error, would have been in some way
set out in the affirmance of the judgment.
If any doubt or difficulty existed with respect to the matters
of fact set up in the assignment of errors,,the court for the correction of errors was, by the laws of New York, clothed with
ample powers to ascertain the facts.
The statute (2 Laws N. Y. 601) declares, "that whenever
an issue of fact shall be joined upon any writ of error returned
into ,the court for the correction of errors, and-whenever any
quesion of fact shall arise upon any motion in relation to such
writ or the proceedings thereon, the court may remit the recofd to the supreme court, with direction to rause an issue to
be made up by the parties to try such question of fact, at the
proper circuit court or sittiligs; and to certify the verdict thereupon to the court for the correction of errors."

SUPREME. COURT.
[Davis v. Fackardc et aL]

No such issue having been directed, we. must necessarily
conclude that no question of fact was in dispute; and as the
record contains no intimation that this matter was not set up
in proper time, the conclusion would seem.jrresistible, that the
court for the correction of errors considered the matter itself,
set up m the assigiiment, as insufficient to reverse the judgment. This being the only question decided m that court, is
the only question to be reviewed here and viewing the record m this light, .we cannot but consider the judgment of the
state court in direct opposition to the act of congress, which
excludes the jurisdiction of the state courts in suits against
consuls.
But if the question was open for consideration here, whether
the privilege claimed was not waived by omitting to plead it
in the supreme court, we should incline to say it was not. If
this was to be viewed merely a J a personal privilege, there
might be grounds for such a conclusion, but it cannot be so
considered. It is the privilege of the country or government
which the consul represents. This is the light in which foreign
ministers are considered by the law of nations, and our constitutioh, and law seem to put consuls on the same footing ui
this respect.
•If the privilege or- exemption was merely personal, it can
.hardly be supposed that it would have been thought a matter
s fficiently. importadt to require a specml provision m the constitution and laws of the United States. Higher considerations
of public policy doubtless led to the provision. It was '4eemed
fit and proper that the- courts of the government, witil which
rested the regulation of all foreign intercourse, should have
cognizance of suits against the representatives of such foreign
governments. That -it is not considered a personal privilege
in Euglanwd, is evident from what fell from lord Ellenborough
ii the case of Marshall v. Critico, 9 East, 447. It was a motion
.to discharge the defendant from arrest on common bail on the
ground of his privilege under the statute 7 Ann, ch. 12, as
being constil-general from the Porte. Lord Ellenborough said,
this is not a privilege of the person, but of the state he represents, and the defendant having been divested of the character

JANUARY TERM 1838.
(Davis v. Packard et al.]

in wuch he claims that privilege, there is no reason why
he should not be subject to process as other persons; and the
motion was denied on this ground.
Nor is the omission to plead the privilege deemed a waiver
in England, as is clearly to be inferred from cases where application has been n ade to discharge the party from execution, on
the ground of privilege under the statute of Ann, which is
consider d merely as declaratory of the law of nations; and no
objection appears to have been made, .that.the pnvilege was
not pleaded. 3 Burr. 1478, 1676.
It may not be amiss barely to notice another argument which
has been pressed upon the court by the counsel for the defendants m error, although we think it does not properly arise upon
this record,
It is saidlibe act of congress does not apply to this case, be.
cause, beiftg an action upon a recognizance of bail, it is not an
original proceeding, but the continuation.of a.suit rightfully
commenced in a state court.
The act of congress is general, extending to all suits against
consuls; and it is a little difficult to maintain the proposition,
that an action of debt upon recognizance of bail is not a suit.
But we apprehend the proposition is nct well founded, that
it is not, in legal understanding, an original proceeding.
It is laid down in the books, that a scire facias upon a recognizance of bail is an original proceeding, and if so, an action of
debt upon the recognizance is clearly so. A.scire facias upon a
judgment is, to some purposes, only a continuation of the former suit; but an action-of debt on a judgment. is an original
suit.
It is argued, that debt on-recognizance of bail, is a continuation of the original suit, because, as a general rule, the action
must be brought in the same court. Although this is the
general rule, because that court is supposed to be more competent'to relieve the bail when entitled to relief, yet, whenever
from any cause the action cannot be brought in the same court,
'the plaintiff is never -deprived of his remedy, but allowed to
bring his action in a different court, as where the bail moves
out of the jurisdidtion of the court. This is the settled rule in
the state of New York; and it is surely a good reason for hrng-

SUPREME COURT.
[Davis Y. Packard et aL.]
mg the suit in another court, when the law expressly forbids
it to be brought in the same court where the original action
was brought. 2 Wil. Saund. 71, a, Tidd's Practice, 1099,
6th ed., 2 Archb. Prac. 86, book 3, ch. 3, 7 Johns. 318;
9 Johns. 80; 12 Johns. 459; 13 Johns. 424, 1 Chit. Rep. 713;
18 Common Law Rep. 212, n. a
But the reversal of the judgment in this case is put on the
ground that from the record we are left to conclude, that the
court for the correction of errors decided that the character of
consul-general of the king of Saxony, did not exempt the
plaintiff in error from being sued in the state court.
Judgment reversed.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the court for the trial of impeachments and correction
of errors for the state of New York, and was arguea by counsel. on consideration whereof, it is the opinion of this court,
that the plaintiff in error being consul-general of the king of
Saxony, exempted him from being sued.

