SUPREME COURT.

THE UNITED STATES)V. JOHN

B.

MILLS.

he defendant was indicted upon the twenty-fourth section of the act of
congress of 3d March 1825, entitled an act to reauce into one the several acts establishing and regulating the post office department," for advising, procuring and assisting one Joseph I. Straugban, a mail carrier,
to rob the mail; and was found guilty. Upon this finding, the judges of
the circuit court of North Carolina were divided in opinion on the question,
whether an indictment founded \ on the statute for advising, &c. a mail
carier to rob the mail, ought to set forth or aver that the said carrier did
ii fact commit the offence of robbing the mail? By the court:
The answer to this, as an abstract proposition, must be in the affirmative.
Blut'if the question intended to be put is, whether there must be a dis.
tinct substantive averment of that fact: it is not necessary. The indictment in this case sufficiently sets out that the offence had been committed
by the mail carrier.
The offence charged in this indictment is a misdemeanour where all are
principals; and the doctrine applicable te principal and accessary m cases
of felony, does not apply. The offence, however, charged against the
defendant is secondary in its character4 and there can be no doubt that
it must sufficiently appear upon the indictment, that the offence alleged
agaist the chief actor bad been committ..

ON a certificate of division from the circuit court of the United
States for the district of North Carolina.
'The defendant was indicted at the term of November 1832
of the circuit court, for an offence against the post office
laws passed on the 2d of March 1824, entitled, "an act to reduce into one act the several acts establishing and regulating
the post office department."
The. indictment contained two counts.
"The first count charged that the defendant did, "at Fayetteville, on the 1st June 1832, procure, advise and assist Joseph
I. Straughan to secrete, embezzle and destroy a mail of letters,
with which the said Joseph I. Straughan was entrusted, and
which had come to his possession, and was intended to be conveyed by post from Piotsboroug'h, in the distict aforesaid, to
Fayetteville, also in ,:aid district, containing bank notes, the
said Joseph I. Straughan being, at the time of such procuring,
advising and assisting, then and there a person employed in

JANUARY TERM 1833.
rUnited States v. AiIIs.1

one of the. departments of the post office establishmet, to %it,
a carrier of the mail of the United States from Pittsborough
aforesaid to Fayetteville aforesaid, contrary to the form of the
act of congress," &c.
The second count was in the following words that the. arendant "did procure, advise and assist Joseph I. Straughan to
secrete, embezzle and destroy a letter addressed by Joseph
Small to Joseph Baker, with which the said Joseph I. Straughan was entrusted, and which came to his possession, and was
intended to be conveyed by post from Pittsborough, m the district aforesaid, to Fayette fille, aforesaid, containing sundry
bank notes, amounting, in the whole, to sixty dollars, of a discrmnnation to the jurors aforesaid unknown, and of the issue
of a bank to the said jurors also unknown, the saia Joseph I.
Straughan being, at the time of such procuring, advising and
assisting, then and there a person employed in one of the departments of the post office establishment, to wit, a carrier of
the mail of the United States from Pittsborough aforesaid to
Fayetteville aforesaid, contrary to the form of the act of congress," &c.
The jury found the defendant guilty on both counts, and a
motion was made in arrest of judgment on the following
grounds
1. That the indictment doth not aver, charge, or in any
manner show, that the snid Joseph I. Straughau did coinnmt
the offence which this defendaiit is alleged' to have procured
and advised and assiste'd hun to commit.
2. That the said indictment is, in other respects, uncertain,
insufficient, informal and defective, and will, in no sort, warrant any judgment upon the said verdict.
Upon. this motion the following certificate of division was
given
"The defendant was indicted upon the twenty-fourth section of the act of congress approved the 2d of March 1825,
entitled an act to reduce into one the several acts establishing
and regulating the post office department, for advising, procuring and assisting one Joseph -1.Straughan, mail carlier. to
rob the mail, and being found guilty, submitted a motion m
arrest of judgment, one reason in support of which motion

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. 1ills.].

was, that the indictment did not sufficiently show any offence
against the said act, because the same did not directly charge,
or otherwise aver, that the said Joseph I. Straughan did actually rob the mail, and, upon argument, the judges were opposed in opinion upoti tb ",estion, to wit whether an indictment, grounded upon the saw statute, for advising, &c. a mail
earner to rob the mail ought to set forth or aver that the said
earner did, in fact, commit the offence of robbing the mail,
and, therefore, the judges directed the same to be certified to
the supreme court.
The case was argued for the United States by the attorneygeneral, Mr Taney, no counsel appeared for the defendant.
He stated that the charge, so far as it is material to the
question submitted to the court in the certificate of division, is
contained in the first count, "that the defendant did procure,
advise and assist" the mail carer to secrete, embezzle and
destroy the mail of the United States. In neither- count is
there an averment that the offence of secreting, embezzling.or
destroyng the mail was actually committed.
But as the offence charged is a misdemeanour, all are principals; and the law which requires that before the accessary can
be convicted, the principal must be proved to have been guilty,
and the offence to have been committed, does not apply. As
this is a statute offence, it is sufficient to bring the offender
within the words of the law, and it may be urged that the
words themselves contain in themselves a sufficient averment.
Upon the authority of the decision of this court in the United
States v. Goodin, 12 Wheat. 466, 474, it is submitted that the
indictment may be sustained.
Upon English authorities it is sufficient to lay the offence in
the words of the law 2 East's P1. Cr. 781, 2 -Leach, Crim.
Cases, 578, 5 T. R. 33.
Mr Justice THOIPSoN delivered the opimon of the Court.
The defendant was indicted in the circuit court of the United
States for the district of North Carolina, under the twentytourth section of the act of 1825, entitled "an act to reduce

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[United States v.

ills.]

into one, the several acts establishing and regulating the post
office department" (7 Laws U. S. 377), which declares "that
every person, who, from and after the passing of this act, shall
procure and advise, or assist in the doing or perpetration of any
of the acts or crimes by this act forbiden, shall be subject to
the same penalties and punishments as the persons are subject
to who shall actually do or perpetrate any of the said acts or
crimes, according to the provLsons of this act." Upon the
trial the defendant was convicted of the offence charged in the
indictment, and a motion was made -m arrest of judgment,
upon which motion the judges were opposed in opinion, and
the case comes here upon the following certificate:
"The defendant w'as indicted upon the twenty-fourth section of the act of congress, approved the 3d of March 1825,
entitled "an . act to reduce into. one, the several acts establishing and regulating the post office department," for advising,
procuring and assisting one Joseph I. Straughan, mail carrier,
to rob the mail, and, being found guilty, submitted a motion in
arrest of judgment. one reason in support of which motion was,
that the indictment did not sufficiently show any offence against
the said act, because the same did not directly charge or otherwise aver, that the said Joseph I. Straughan did actually rob
the mail, and upon argument the judges were opposed in opinion upon this question, to wit, whether an indictment grounded
upon the said statute, for advising, &c. a mail carrer to rob
the mail, ought to set forth or aver, that the said carrier did in
-fact commit the offence of robbing the mail, and therefore tile
judges directed the same to be certified to the supreme court..
The offence charged in this indictment is a rmsdemeanour,
where all are principals; and the doctrine applicable to principal
and accessary in cases of felony does not apply The offence,
however, charged against the defendant, is secondary in its
character; and there can be no doubt, that it must sufficiently
appear upon the indictment, that the offence alleged against
the chief actor had in fact been committed.
The first count in the indictment alleges that the defendant
did, at the time and place therein mentioned, procure, advise
and assist Joseph I. Straughan to secrete, embezzle .and destroy a letter with which he, the sqid Joseph I. Straughan

SUPREME COURT
[United States v. 1Wils.]

was entrusted, and which had come to his possession, and was
intended to be conveyed by post, &c., containing bank notes,
&c. He, the said Joseph I. Straughan, being at the time of
such proruring, advising and assisting, a person employed in
one of the -post office establishments, to wit, a carrier of the
mail, &c., contrary to the form of the act of congress in such
case made and provided.
The second count in the indictment sets out the particular
letter secreted, embezzled and destroyed, contaimng bank
notes amounting to sixty dollars.
The offence here set out against Straughan, the mail carrier,
is substantially in the words of the statute, second section.
If-any person employed in any of the departments of the post
office establishment, shall secrete, embezzle or destroy any
letter, packet, bag, or mail of letters with which he shall be
entrusted, or which shall have come to his possession, and is
intended to be conveyed by post, containing any bank note,
&c., such person shall, on conviction, be imprisoned, &c.
The general rule is, that in indictments for misdemeanours
created by statute, it is sufficient to charge the offence in the
words.of the statute. There is not that techical nicety required as to form, which seems to have- been adopted and
sanctioned by long practice in cases of felony, and with respect
to some crimes, where particular words must be used, and no
other words, however synonymous they may seem, can be
substituted. But in all cases the offence must be set forth
with clearness, and all necessary certainty, to apprise the accused of the crime with which he stands charged.
And we think the present indictment contains such cer.
tainty, and sufficiently alleges, that the offence had, in poi
of fact, been committed by Straughan. It charges the defendant not only with advising, but procuring and assisting Straughan to secrete and embezzle, &c.. This necessarily implies
that the act was done; and is such an averment or allegation,
as made it necessary on the -part of the prosecution to prove
that the act had been done.
The particular question put in the certificate of division is,
whether an indictment, grounded upon the said statute for advising, &c. a mail carrier to rob the mail, ought to set forth or

JANUARY TERM 1833.
JUnited States v

ills.]

aver that the said carrier did in fact commit the offence of
robbing the mail. The answer to this, as an abstract proposition, must be in the affirmative. I But if the question intended
to beput is, whether there must be a distinct, substantive and
independent averment of that fact, we should say it is not necessary, and that the indictment in this case sufficiently sets
out that the offence had been committed by Straughan, the
mail carer; and that no defect appears in the indictment for
which the judgment ought to be arrested.
A certificate to this effect must accordingly be sent to the
circuit court.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the circuit court of the United States for the distct
of North Carolina, and on the qu'es.tion and point on wicl ,ae
.judges of the said circuit court were opposed in opinion, and
which was certified to this court for its opinion, agreeably to
the act of congress in such case made and provided, and was
argued by counsel. on consideration whereof, it is the opinion
of this court that the indictment in this case sufficiently sets
out that the offence had been committed by Straughan, the
mail carer; and that no distinct, substantial and independent
averment of that fact was necessary, and that there is no sufficient cause for .arresting the judgment.. whereupon it is adjudged and ordered by this court, that it be certified to the said
circuit court that the indictment. in this case sufficiently sets
out that the offence had been committed by Straughan, the
mail carrier, and that no distinct, substantial and independent
averment of that fact was necessary, and that there is no suflicient cause for arresting the judgment.

