252

SUPREME COURT

HARLES VATTIER, APPELLANT ,.THOMAS S. H-INDF JAMES
B. HINDE, MARTHA. INDE, AND JOHN M. HiNDE, INFANTS

&C.
biUl was filed in the circuit court of Ohio, claiung a conveyance of cer-

tain-real estate m Cincinnati from the defendants, and after a decree in
ikvour of the complainants, and an appeal to the supreme court, the decree of the circuit court was reversed, because a certain Abraham Garrison, through whom one of the defendants claimed to have derived title,
had not been made a party to the proceedings, and who was, at the time
of the institution of the same, a citizen of the state of Illinois, although
the fact of such citizenship did not then appear on the record. Afterwards, a supplemental bill was- filed in the circuit court, and Abraham
Garrison appeared and answered, and disclaimed all interest in the case:
whereupon the circuit court, with the consent of the complainants, dismissed the bill as to him. By the court. If the defendants have distinct
interests, so that substantial justice can be done by decreeing for or
against one or more of them, over whom the court has jurisdiction, without affecting the interests of others, its jurisdiction may be-exercised as
to them. If, when the cause came on for hearing, Abraham Garrison had
still been &defendant, a decree might then have been pronounced for
or against the other defendantq, and the bill have been disnussed as to
him, if such decree could have been pronounced as to them without
affating his interests. No principle or law is perceived which opposes
this course. The incapacity of the court to exercise jurisdiction over
Abraham Garrison, could not affect their- jurisdiction over other defend-

ants, whose interests were not connected with his, and, from whom he
was separated, by dismissing the bill as to him.
The cases of Nollan et al. v. Torrance, 9 "Wheat.Rep. 537 Connolly et aL
v. Taylor, 2 Peters, 556; and Cameron v. lVRobcrts, 3 Wheat. Rep. 591,
cited and affirmed.
It is the settled practice in the courts of the United States, if the case can
be decided on its merits, between those who ure regularly before them,
although other persons, not within their jurisdiction, may be collaterally
or incidentally concerned, who must have been made parties if they had
been amenable to its process, that these circumstances shall not expel
other suitors who have a constitutional and legal right to submit their case
to a court of the United States, provided the decree may be made without affecting, their interests. This rule has also been adopted by the

court of chancery in England.
Where the new parties to a proceeding in chancery are the legal representatives of an original party, and the proceedings have been revived in their
names, by the order of the court on a bill of revivor, the settled practice
is to use all the testimony which might lave been used if no abatement

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Vattier v. Hinde.]
had occurred. The Tepre.entatveq take the place of those which they
represent, and the suit proceeds in a new'form, unaffected by the change
of name.
Agreements had been made, under which depositions taken in other cases
where the same questions of title were involved, should be reai in evidence, and on the hearing in the crcuit court these depositions were
read. afterwards, on an tppeal to this court, the decree of the circuit
court was reversed, and by the decree of reversal the parties were permitted to proceed de novo. When the case was again heard in the circuit court the defendant objected to the reading of the depositions,
asserting that the decree of reversal annulled the written certificate of
the parties for the admission of testimony. By the court. The consent
to the depositions was not limited to the first hearing, but was co-extensive with the cause. The words in the decree of reversal, that the parties may proceed de novo, are not equivalent to a dismission of the bill
without prejudice; nor could the court have understood them as affecting
the testimony in the cause, or setting aside the solemn agreement of the
parties. The testimony is still admissible to the extent of the agreement.
The rules of law respecting a purchaser without notice, -are formed for the
protection of lum who purchases a legal estate, and pays the purchase
money without a knowledge of the outstanding equity. They do not
protect a person who acquires no semblance of title. They apply fully,
only, to the purchaser of the legal estate. Even the purchaser of an
equity is bound to take notice of any prior equity.
The bill set forth a title in B. H., the wife of T. H*, by direct descent from
her brother to herself, and insisted on this title to certain 'real estate.
The answer of the defendants resisted the claim, because the land had
been conveyed by the complainants before the institution of the-suit to
A. C. The complainant in his replication admitted the execution of
the deed to A. C., but averred that it was made in trust to reconvey the
lot to T. H., to be held by him for the use and benefit of B. H., his wife
and her heirs, and to enable T. H. to manage and litigate the said rights;
and that A. H., in execution of the trust, made a deed to T. H. The
deed was recorded, and was exhibited, but it did not state the trust. The
rules of the court of chancery will not permit this departure in the replication from the statements of the Dill.
The act for regulating processes in the courts of the United States, provides
that the forms and modes ofproceeding in courts of equity, and in those
of admiralty and maritimejurisdiction, shall be according to the principles,
rules and usages which belong to courts of equity and to courts of admiralty, respectively, as contradistinguished from courts of common law,
subject, however, to alterations by the courts, &c. This act has been
generally understood to adopt the principles, rules aifd usages of the
court of chancery of England.

APPEAL from the circuit court of (lie United States for the
district of Ohio.

SUPREME COURT.
[Vettier v. Hinde.]

This case was before the. court at January term 1828, 1
Peter, 241, on an appeal by the parties who are now appellants. The court, at. that term, reversed the decree of the
circuit court of Ohio, because a certain Abraham Garrison had
not been made a party in that court, and the cause was remanded "with instructions to permit the complainants, the
appellees, to amend their bill and to make proper parties, and
to proceed de novo in the cause from the filing of suh amended
bill, as law and equity might require."
In the circuit court an amended bill was filed, making
Abraham Garrison .a party, and the parties proceeding to a
final hearing; a decree was rendered m favour of the complainants, from which decree the defendants appealed to tins court.
The case was argued by Mr Caswell for the appellant;
and by Mr Ewing and Mr Clay for the appellee.

Mr Chief Justice

MARSHALL

delivered the opimon of the

Court.
This suit was originally brought in the court of the United
Statesfor the seventh circuit and district of Ohio, sitting in
chancery, by Thomas S. Hinde and Belinda his wife, for the
conveyance of a lot of ground in the town of Cincinnati, designated in the plan of the town by the number 86.
The bill alleges that Abraham Garrison, under whom all
parties claim, sold and conveyed the said lot of ground to William and Michael Jones, as is proved by his receipt in the following words. "Received, Cincinnati, 10th September 1790,
of William and Michael Jones, fifty pounds thirteen shillings
and three pence, in part, of a lot opposite Mr Coun's m Cincinnati, for two hlndred and fifty dollars, which I will make
them a warrantee deed for, on or before the 20th day, this
instant.

"Signed,

ABRAHAM GARRISON.

"Test, JAcoB AWL.."
That a deed was executed the succeeding day, whi.6 has
been lost. That on the U6th of March 1800, William Jones,
acting for and in the name of William and Michael Jonev,
conveyed the lot to Thomas Doyle, Jun. then an infant; and

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Vattier v.Hinde.]

that his father, Thomas Doyle, took possession of it in the
name of his son, and retained possession until his death, that
the said Thomas Doyle, Jun. having survived woth his parents,
died under age in the year 1811, leaving the plaintiff, Belinda,
his sister by the mother's side, and heir at law.
The bill then alleges, that in the year 1814 the plaintifi,
Thomas S. Hinde, in right of his wife, took possession of the
said lot and placed a tenant on it, after which, in the year
1819, he obtained a deed of confirmation from William Jones.
The bill further charges, that James Findley, Charles Vattier, Robert Ritchie, William Lytle, George Ely and William
Dennison, knowing the title of the plaintiffs, but discovering
that the deed from Garrison to William and Michael Jones
was lost, have procured a deed from Garrison to some one of
them, and have turned his tenant out of possession The
plaintiffs have commenced an ejectment against the tenants in
possession, but are advised that they cannot support it. They
therefore pray for a conveyance, for discovery and for general
relief.
The receipt of Abraham Garrison to William and Michael
Jones, and the deed of William, purporting to convey for
Michael and himself, with the deed of confirmation executed
by Michael, are filed as exhibits. The record also contains a
deed of John C. Symmes, dated the 31st of July 1795, conveying the lot to Abraham Garrison. The deed from Jones to
Doyle is in the name of William and Michael Jones, and. is
signed W and M. Jones; but concludes, :"in witness whereof
the said William Jones hath hereunto set his hand and seal,
the day and year first above mentioned."
James Findley answers, that having obtained a judgment
for a large sum against Charles Vattier, the lot 86, with other
real property to a large amount, was transferred to him inthe
year 1807 in satisfaction thereof, and possession of the lot was
given. In the year 1815 he was informed that Abraham Garrison claimed the lot, and on searching the record, could find
no conveyance from him for it. He purchased it from Garison for the sum of seven hundred dollars, on condition of his
conveying twenty-three feet, part thereof, to Abraham Garri-

SUPREME COURT.
[Vattier v. Hinde.1

son, Jun., the son of the vendor. Conveyances were executed
in pursuance of this contract. Previous to this purchase, he
understood that Thomas Doyle was once the owner of the lot,
that it had been sold at a sheriff's sale as his property, and
purchased by Charles Vattier. When he purchased, Garrison
assured him that he had never sold the rot, and his inquiries
among the old settlers respecting the sale to William and
Michael Jones, were answered by assurances that they knew
nothing more than report, that Thomas Doyle had claimed
the lot, and that it was sold by the sheriff as his property.
Never heard that the plaintiff, T. S. Hinde, had been in possession. In April 1818, on a qompromise with Charles Vattier,
he conveyed to him all his interest in the lot.
The deed from Findley to Vattier is made in consideration
of one dollar, and a final settlement of all claims.
The answer of Charles Vattier states, that in the year 1800
the lot was advertised by the sheriff of Hamilton c unty to be
sold under execution, issued on a judgment he obtaiel against
Thomas Doyle, at which sale he became the purchaser, at the
price of twenty dollars. Neither the return of the sale, nor the
deed made to him by the sheriff can be foun&. He has no
other knowledge of the title of Thomas Doyle, than that the
lot was called his. He held possession under the sale, until
James Findley became possessed thereof in 1807. In the yea1818 James Findley conveyed the lot to him for a valuable
consideration, after which he conveyed to William Lytle.
The answer of William Lytle states that he purchased part
of the lot 86 from Charles Vattier m 1818, for fifteen thousand
four hundred dollari. He had no knowledge of the claim of
Thomas Doyle, Jun. Some time before the purchase, he had
heard that Mr Hinde had taken possession of some lots claimed
by Thomas Doyle, deceased, but does not recollect which lots.
The answer of Robert Ritchie states, that he is a purchaser
for a valuable consideration, without notice of that part of the
lot No. 86, which was conveyed by James Findley to Abraham
Garrison, Jun.
Sunalry depositions were taken and exhibits filed, after which
the cause came on to be heard, and the court decreed Charles

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Yattier v. Hinde.]

Vattier and Robert Ritchie severally to convey to the plaintiffs
the parts they respectively held of the lot 86. From this decree the defendants appealed to this court.
On a hearing the decree was reversed, because Abraham
Gamson was not made a party, and the cause was remanded
to the circuit court with directions to permit the plaintiffs to
amend their bill, and make Abraham Garrison a party. and to
proceed de novo.
On the return of the cause to the circuit court, the death of
the plaintifl; Belinda, being suggested, the suit was revived as
to her heirs; and a bill of revivor, and an amended and supplemental bill was filed, making Abraham Garrison.a party.
The bill, after recitmg the matter of the original bill, and
stating the death of Belinda Hinde without issue, whereby the
plaintiff, T. S. Hinde, became entitled to a life estate, as tenant
by the courtesy, and the other plaintiffs, who are infants, were
entitled at the only issue and heirs of the said Belinda, prays
that the suit and all the proceedings in it-may stand revived
and be prosecuted by the said Thomas; for himself, and'for
them as their next friend. The bill then charges, that James
Bradford, Thomas Doyle and John Bradshaw were brother
officers; that Bradshaw executed a voluntary bond to Thomas
Doyle, the-son of Thomas Doyle, binding himself to convey to
lum two hundred and fifty acres of land, part of a large tract,
which is very valuable. This bond was delivered to Thomas
Doyle, the father, for the benefit of his son, who afterwards
sold the land to Samuel C. Vance for a large sum of money,
which he received. To indemnify his son, he procured the lot
No. 86 to be conveyed to him. This intention was declared at
the time. He was then indebted, but not ihsolvent. ,Cincinnati then contained not more than one hundred inhabitants,
and thls traiisaction was generally known. After the execntion of the bond to T. Doyle, the son, J. Bradshaw departed
this life leaving a will in which he.devised his whole estate to.
T. Doyle the elder. The estate of the father descended to his
son. add on his death to his half'sister Belinda, after which the
plaintiff, T. S. Hinde, confirmed the sale to Vance.
After T. Doyle,'the fathdrj had taken possession of lot No.
VOL. VII.-2 H

SUPREME COURT.
(Vattier v. Hinde.]
86 for his son, sundry lots m Cincinnati were sold as his property under execution, some of which were purchased by Vattier, but lot 86 was not among them.
It remained open and unimproved until 1814, when the.plaintiff, T. J. Hinde, took possession, and placed a tenant on it.
Vattier, erroneously supposing himself to have purchased
this lot 86 among others, examined into the title, and must
have become fully apprized of the title of T. Doyle the younger,
as the deed from Jones to him was on record, and recites the
deed from 'Gamson to Jones. In consequence of this, he took
depositions in perpetuam rei memoriam, to prove that the consideration of the deed to the son moved from the father.
About the year 1807, Vattier, being largely indebted to
Findley, transferred to him a large quantity of property, among
which lot 86 was supposed to be included. It is understood
that no money passed on this arrangement between Vattier
and Findley, nor were the relations of the parties changed.
Findley examined into the title and became acquainted with
its history from the recorder, T. Henderson. He determined
to acquire the legal title from Garrison, which he did acquire
at the price of seven hundred dollars, and the conveyance of
twenty-three feet, part of the lot,.to the son of the vendor.
The lot was then worth thirty thousand dollars.
In 1818 Findley and Vattier readjusted their affairs, and lot
No. 86, so far as Findley retained the title, was reconveyed to
Vattier. He sold to Lytle for fifteen thousand dollars, who
never paid any money; and the contract has been cancelled.
The bill prays for a discovery and for a conveyance.
The answer of Abraham Garrison acknowledges the sale
and conveyance to William and Michael Jones, and the receipt
of the purchase money. He admits the receipt filed in the
cause. He was induced to makte the conveyance to Findley,
by the assurance that the equitable title was already in him.
He disclaims all title or interest, and prays to be dismissed.
The defendant, Gamson, having disclaimed all interest, and
it appearing that he was a citizen of Illinois; and the defendants, who purchased the twenty-three feet of land, sold by
Findley to Abraham Garrson, Jun., having filed their answers
denying notice, and the plaintiffs admitting that notice could

JANUARY .TERM 1833.

259,

[Vattier v. Hinde.]

not be fixed on them, the court, with the consent of the plaintiffd, decreed that the bill be dismissed as to them.
The answer of Charles Vattier states, the amendment of the
bill, by which Garrison was made a party, and the subsequent
dismission of th6 bill as to him, wherefore, he prays that the
whole bill may be dismissed.
He does not admit that Belinda Bradford 'was the heir at
law of James- Bradford, or that she was born in lawful wedlock;
nor does he admit the marrage of Thomas Doyle with the
mother of the said Belinda, or the birth of T. Doyle, Jun.
He aenies that the said Belinda was the heir of T. Doyle, Jun.
He admits the conveyance of the lot from John Cleves Symmes
in 1795 to A. Garrison, and that some contract was- made by
Garrison with W and M. Jones, and that W and M. Jones
sold their equitable title to T. Doyle, who took. possession in
his own right, and not in right of his son. The consideration
moved from the father; consequently, if the conveyance was
made to the son, he held in trust for his father.
The deed from Jones was made, he says, to the son fraudulently, for the sole purpose of defrauding creditors. He denies
that the father was indebted to the son. He denies that the lot
lay open and unimproved. It was iji possession of the defendant, who made some small improvements on it.
He obtained a judgment against the elder Doyle in February 1801, upon which an execution issued, which was levied
on-lot 86. An inquest summoned to ascertain the value of
the premises, returned that Thomas Doyle was seised of lot
No. 86, and that its clear yearly value was twelve dollars. A
writ of venditiom exponas was issued, which.was stayed by
supersedeas; but the judgment was affirmed: after which the
lot was sold under execution, and the defendant, Vattier, became the purchaser. There having been lots sold on the same
day, the sheriff conveyed to Mr Barnet the -lot sold to the de'1
fendant, and to the defendant the lot sold to -, Barnet. The
mistake was corrected by Mr Bennet, so far as his own interest
was concerned, but was neglected by the defendant..
Some time after his purchase, he heard of the claim of young
Doyle, and on being told by Jones that the purchase money

SUPREME COURT.
[Vattier v. Hinde.]

was paid by the father, he took depositions to perpetuate testimony.
He denies that Belinda, the late wife of T. S. Hinde, was the
heir of T. Doyle, Jun.
He admits that upon a final settlement with Findley, the lot
was reconveyed to him at the price of fifteen thousand dollars.
He also admits the sale to Lytle, and a reconveyance of the
property, the purchase money not having been paid.
The same defendant afterwards filed an amended answer, in
which lie states, that at the time of filing the original bill,
Belinda Hinde, the plaintiff, whose right was asserted therein,
had no title to the lot 86. That on the 5th day of October
1814, she, with her husband, Thomas S. Hinde, executed and
delivered to Alexander Cummins, a deed of bargain and sale,
whereby they conveyed the said lot to him m fee simple, which
deed was recorded in the court of Hamilton county, a copy of
which is exhibited'with the answer.
In their replication the plaintiffs admit the execution of the
deed set firth in the amended answer, .but aver that if the
deed was sufficient. in law to transfer the -estate of the said
Belinda in the premses, which they do not admit, it wC3 intended to vest the same in the said Alexander, in trust to
reconvey the same to the said Thomas, to be held by him in
trust for the use and benefit of the said Belinda and her heirs;
and for this purpose the said Alexander did, on the 5th day of
October 1814, reconvey the said lot to the said Thomas. And
afterwards, in March 1815, did execute another deed for the
same purposes, which last mentioned deed was properly recorded in Hamilton county.
The defendants rejoin to this replication.
On a hearing, the court dismissed the bill as to Lytle and
Findley, they appeanng to have no interest in the premises,
and decreed that Charles Vattier do, within sixty days, release to the plaintiffs so much of lot 86 as was conveyed to
him by James Findley. From this decree the defendant,
Charles Vattier, appealed to this court.
The counsel for the appellant assigns several errors in the
decree. The first is, that the court had no jurisdiction, the de-

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Vattier v. Hinde.]
fendant Garrison being a citizen of the state of Illinois. He
contends that, m suits between citizens of the United'States,
all the parties on one side must be citizens of.the state in which
the suit is brought, and that the jurisdiction of the court depends on the state of parties at the institution of the suit. In
support of this proposition he cites Nollan et al. v. Torrance,
9 Wheat. 537. In that case, ajplea to the jurisdiction averred
that the plaintiff and defendant are both citizens of the state.
of Mississippi. On demurrer this plea was held ill, because
the jurisdiction of.the court depended on the state of the parties at the institution of the suit, and not at the time of -the
pled pleaded.
The same objection was made, and the same case cited in
support of it, m Connolly et al. v. Taylor et al., 2 Pet. 556.
In that case the court said, "where there is no change of
party, a jurisdiction depending on the condition of the party is
go' erned by that condition as it was at the commencement.-f
the suit." But this principle was not supposea to be applicable
to a suit brought by or against several individuals, whose
names were struck out during its progress. In the case of
Connolly et al. v. Taylor et al. the plaintiffs were aliens and a
citizen of Pennsylvania. The defendants were citizens of the
state of Kentucky, in which the suit was brought, except one
who was a citizen of Ohio. As between the citizen of Pennsylvania and of Ohio, the court, sitting in Kentucky, could
exercise no jurisdiction. "Had the cause,." said the court,
"come on for a hearing in this state of parties, a decree could
not have been made in it for the want of jurisdiction." The
name of the citizen of the United States, who, was originally
a plaintiff, was, however, struck out before the cause came to
a hearing, and the jurisdiction was sustained.
This case is, we think, in point. A. decree between all the
original parties could not have been made. Those plaintiffs
who had a right to sue all the defendants, had in their bill.
united with themselves a person between whom and one of
the defendants the court could not take jurisdiction. By
striking out his name, the impediment was removed, and the
jurisdiction between the other parties remained as it would
have stood had his name never been inserted in the bill. The

SUPREME COURT.
[Vattier v. Hinde.]

court could perceive no objection founded in convenience or in
law to this course.
It is npossible to draw a distinction,,so far as respects junsdiction, between striking out the name of a plaintiff and of a
defendant. The citizen of Ohio may have been a more necessary party in the cause than the citizen of Pennsylvania.
Had it been otherwise, the same principle which sustained the
one alteration would have sustained the other.
In the case of Cameron v. M'Roberts, 3 Wheat. 591, John
M'Roberts, a citizen of Kentucky, filed his bill in the court of
the United States against Charles Cameron, a citizen of Virgima, and other defendants, without any designation of their
citizenship. The defendants appeared and answered, and a
decree was pronounced for the plaintiff. Upon a motion to
set aside the decree, and to dismiss the suit for want of
jurisdiction, the judges were divided in opinion on the following points, which.was certified to this court.
"Had the district court jurisdiction of the cause as to the
defendant Cameron and the other defendants?1 If not, had
the court jurisdiction as to the defendant Cameron alone 2"
The certificate of this court was, that if a joint interest vested
in Cameron and the other defendants, the court had no jurisdiction over the cause. If a distinct interest vested in Cameron, so that substantial. justice (so fai as he was interested)
could be done without affecting the other defendants, the jurisdiction of the court might be exercised as to him alone.
The other defendants were represented, on the motion, to be
citizens of Kentucky, but this is of *no importance, since the
jurisdiction of the court was as much affected by the onssion
to aver that they were aliens or citizens of some other state,
as it would have been by the averment that they were citizens
of Kentucky.
This certificate applies to the state of parties at the time of
the decree, and affirms this principle. If the defendants have
distinct interests, so that substantial justice can be done by
decreeing for or against one or more of them, over whom the
court has jurisdiction, without affecting the interests of the
others, its jurisdiction may be exercised as to them.
If then, when this cause came on for hearing, Abrahan

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Vattier v. Hinde.]

Garrison had still. been a defendant, a decree nught then have
been pronounced for or against the other aefendants, and the
bill have been dismissed as to him, if such decree could have
been pronounced as to them without affecting his interests.
We perceive no principle of reason or law which opposes
this course. The incapacity of the court to exercise junsdiction over Garrison could not affect their jurisdiction over other
defendants whose mtere3ts were not connected with his, and
from whom he was separated by dismissing the bil as to him.
The second error assigned is attended with more difficulty.
It is, that Abraham Garrison is a necessary party, without
whom a decree ought not to be made. This objection derives
additional force from the fact, that'th 'former decree was reversed beca,.se he had not been made a party. Did the case
now appear under precisely the same circumstances as at the
former heanng,-the same decree-would undoubtedly be now
pronounced. But it is insisted by the counsel for the appellees
that circumstances have so changed as to require a different
decision. It did not appear in the record, as formerly brought
up, that Garrison was not within the jurisdiction of the court.
This circumstance is undoubtedly entitled to great consideration, and has always received it. It is the settled.practice in
the courts of the United States, if the case can be decided on
its merits between those who are regularly before them, to
decree as between them. Although other persons, not within
their jurisdiction, may be collaterally or incidentally concerned,
who must, have been made parties had they been amenable to
its process, this circumstance shall not expel other suitors who
have a constitutional and legal right to submit their case to a
court of the United States, provided the decree may be made
without affecting those interests.
In the case ot'Osborn et al. v. The Bank of the United
States, 9 Wheat. 738, this point was made and relied on by.
the appellant§. A tax had been imposed by the legislature of
Ohio on the Bank of the Umted States, which had been forcibly levied by the officer employed to collect it. A bill was
filed against this officer, and against the auditor and treasurer
of the state, praying that the money might be restored to the
bank, the act imposing the tax being unconstitutional. The.

SUPREME COURT.
[Yattier v. Hinde.]

process was served while the money was yet in the hands of
the officer. The court decreed the restoration of the money,
and the defendants appealed. The appellants insisted that the
state of Ohio was the party really interested, that the treasurer, auditor, and collecting officer were its agents, and that
no decree could be made unless the principal could be brought
before the court.
This court admitted the direct interest of the state, and
added, "had it been within the power of the bank to make it
a party, perhaps no decree ought to have been pronounced m
the cause until the state was before the court. But this was
not in the power of the bank." The jurisdiction of the court
was sustained, and the decree affirmed.
This is a stronger case than that under consideration. The
money in contest would have been paid into the treasury of
the state, had the bill been dismissed for want of proper parties. The decree arrested the money in its progress to the
treasury, and restored it to the bank. All must admit that the
state ought to have been made a party, had it been amenable
to the process of the court. Yet this direct interest did not
restrain the court from deciding the merits of the cause between the parties before it.
In the case at bar, Abraham Garrison has no claun, legal or
equitable, to the property in contest. No decree could be made
against him, and he has filed his answer disclaiming all interest in the cause. It is true that his answer is not evidence as
an answer, since the court had no jurisdiction as to him. But
in a question concerning himself only; in a question whether
the court will abstain from exercising its jurisdiction between
partiesi in some of whom the whole title in law and equity is
vested, lest his interests should be affected, his disclaimer of
all interest, appearing in the form in which it appears, cannot
be disregarded.
The rule that the court will proceed, although persons interested are uot parties, if those persons are not within its junsdiction, has been adopted also by the court of chancery in
England. There, as here, the general rule is that "all persons
materially interested in the subject ought to be parties,-M order
to prevent a multiplicity of, suits, and that there may be a

JANUARY TERM 183$.
[Vattier v. Hinde.]

complete decree between all parties having material interests,
but this being a general rule, established for the convenient
admimstratibn of justice, is subject to some exceptions, introduced from necessity, or with a view to practical convenience.
"Thus," continues Mf Maddock (vol. 2, p. 142), "where persons interested are out of the jurisdiction of the court, and it is
stated so in the bill and proved, it is not necessary to make
them parties."
Had the case on the former hearing appeared as it now appears, had it been then known as it is now known, that
making Garrison a party would turn the plaintiffis out of court,
and that he disclained all interest in the cause, had these
facts appeared in the former record, we think the decree would
not have been reversed for the cause assigned for its reversal.
We are therefore of opinion that the court committed no error
in making their decree between the remaining parties, after
the bill had been dismissed as to Abraham Gamson.
These preliminary objections being removed, we proceed to
consider the rights of the parties.
A question has been made respecting the admissibility of
great part of the testimony on which these rights depend.
Before the original decree was made, while the cause was
depending in the.circuit court, the parties, by their counsel,
filed a consent in writing for the admission of all the testimony
which bad been taken in several suits which were depending
between some of the same parties, relative to the same controversy, in all the suits both in law and equity. Under this
agreement all the depositions were read without objection, at
the hearing of the cause. When the decree then pronounced
was reversed, and the cause remanded, the counsel for Vattier
objected to such of the depositions as were not regularly taken,
and now allege, in support of the objection, that the consent
was no longer binding. That the order to proceed de novo
was equivalent in effect to dismissmg the bill without prejudice, and that new parties are brought into the cause.
The only really new party was Abraham Garrison, and the
testimony was never used for or against him. The bill, as to
himi, was dismissed before the cause came to a hearing. The
VOL. VII.-2 I

SUPREME COURT
[Yattler v. Hinde.]

new parties plautiffs are the representatives of Belinda Hinde,
an original plamtiff, and the proceedings are revived m their
names by the order of the court on their bill of revivor. Under
such circumstances, the settled practice is to use -ll the testi.
mony whieh might have been used had no abatement occurred.
The representatives take the place of those whom they represent, and the suit proceeds in its new form unaffected by the
change of name.
The reversal of the ongml decree cannot annul the written
consent of parties for the admission of testimony. That consent was not limited in its terms to the first hearffig, but was
co-extensive with the cause. The words in the decree of reversal, that the parties may proceed de novo, are not equivalent
to a dismission of the bill without prejudice; nor could the
court have understood them as affecting the testimony in
the cause, or as setting aside the solemn agreement of the
parties. The testimony; therefore, is still ad&ussible to the
extent of that agreement.
As the appellees claim under. Thomas Doyle, Jun., the first
inquiry is into the validity of his title.
It is derived, as is stated in the original bill, from Abraham
Gamson, who sold to William and Michael Jones. This sale
is pr6ved by the xeceipt given for the purchase money, which
receipt also contains a stipulation for a conveyance.
An objection is made to its admission in evidence, because it
has not been proved by the subscribing witness, Some affidavits were filed, which state that after diligent inquiries at his
former place of residence, no intelligence could be obtained respecting him, nor had he been heard of for many years. These
affidavits are also objected to, because not regularly takeni on
noticew
The validity of this objection need not be examined, because
the receipt is more than thirty years old, and is not only free
from suspicion, but is supported by other testimony. In such
a case the subscribing witness may be dispensed with. Bul.
Nisi Prius, 255, 1 Starkie's Law of Evidence, 342. This paper
vests an equitable title in William and Michael Jones. The
bill alleges that a deed in pursuance of it was soon afterwards executed, and there is much reason to believe that. the

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Vattler v. Hinde.]

allegation is true; but the deed is lost, and the proof of its existence is not thought sufficient to establish it.
In March 1800, a deed was executed by William Jones, for
and on behalf of his partner Michael and himself, conveying
the lot 86 ta Thomas Doyle, Jun.
The appellants insist that this deed is fraudulent, that the
consideration moved from Thomas Doyle the father; and that
the conveyance was made at his instance to his son, then an
infant, for the purpose of protecting the property from the
creditors of the father, who was then insolvent.
The appellees insist tha. the money paid, was in truth the
money of the son then in the hands of the father, and that the
transaction'was a fair one. They admit that Thomas Doyle,
Sen. was indebted, but not insolvent. The bill dtates that the
money of the son came to the hands of his father, in the followiing manner.
John Bradshaw, the intimate friend and brother orncer of
Thomas Doyle, being an old bachelor without near relations,
executed a voluntary bond to the son of his friend, for two
hundred and fifty acres of valuable land, part of a larger tract,
which he deposited with the father for the use of the son.
This statement is corroborated by the will of Bradshaw, in
which he gives the residue of the land, and all his other property to Thomas Doyle. What is denominated a bond, is in
substance a deed poll. It describes the tract of land, of which
the two hundred and fifty acres it purports to convey are a
part; ail then, for a valuable consideration, bargains and sells
the said two humdred and fifty acres to Thomas Doyle, Jun.
son of major Thomas Doyle, a major in the service of the Umted
States. This bond or deed is attested by two witnesses, and
bears date the 7th day of January 1794. The handwriting
of one of the subscrihmg witnesqes who is dead, is proved, and
a witness testifies that he has heard nothing concerning the
other, though he has made inquiry for him. The hand writing
of Bradshaw is also proved.
On the 17th of May 1796; Thomas Doyle, the father, made
the following assignment of this instrument. "In consideration
of four hundred dollars to me in hand paid, I sign over in behalf
of my son, Thomas Doyle, Jun., my right and title to the within

SUPREME COURT.
[Vatfier Y. HImde.]
mentioned tract of land, and obligate myself in the penalty of
six hundred dollars, that when he becomes of sufficient age,
that he will sign over his right and title of the same, agreeable
to law." Signed; Thomas Doyle. The payment of the consideration money specified in the assignment is proved.
Thomas Doyle, then, was, in May 1796, indebted to Ins son
for money received to his use, in the zum of four hundred dollars. Although the son might, when of age, have refused to
receive this money, and have asserted his title to the two hundred and fifty acres, had the tract of which it was a part,
remained the property of his father the devisee of Bradshaw,
or of a purchaser with: notice, yet he was not compellable to
assert it; and, his title not being on record, he could not have
asserted it against a purchaser without notice. Thomas Doyle
the son then was a bona fide creditor of his father, for the
sum of four hundred dollars. The circumstances under which
this debt was created, or the relationship between the parties,
cannot render it less sacred.
In March 1800, Thomas Doyle, being thus indebted to hisson, directed the conveyance of lot No. 86, to be made to him,
declaving at the time, that it was made in consideration of the
debt he owed -forhis son's land sold to Vance. Had this transaction been in favour of any other creditor than a son, its fairness could never have been impeached. Had he, as guardian
for any other person, secured a debt under the same circumstances, the helpless infancy of the ward would hot have
tainted the transaction with fraud. The connexion between
the parties may excite suspicion, may justify a more scrutinizing investigation of all the circumstances; but if the result of
this investigation be, as we think it is, that the conveyance
was in payment of a debt of the most sacred.obligation, a debt
wich a conscientious debtor ought to have paid,.it is valid in
law. The consideration mentioned in the deed, is three hundred and fifty dollars, and it is not suggested that the lot was
worth more than that sum.
This deed could pass only the interest of William Jones.
3ut it purported to convey the interest of both partners. The
presumption ansing from the language of the deed and the
connexion between the parties, thq the land was considered as

JANUARY TERM 1883.
[Vattier v. Hinde.]

an'article of merchandize, and supposed to be conveyed as
such an article, is strengthened, if not confirmed by the deed
of confirmation afterwards made by Michael Jones, the other
partner and joint owner of the lot, and by his deposition which
states that the purchase was made by William, the acting
partner, who directed the conveyance to be made to the firm.
This being the title of Thomas Doyle, Jun., we are next to
inquire whether it has descended on Belinda, the plaintiff in
the original suit, and his sister on the part of the mother.
The plaintiffs make two objections t.o her title.
1st. That she was not born in lawful wedlock, and was
therefore mcapable of taking lands by descent.
2d. That if legitimate, she could not inherit this from her
half brother; because she is not of the blood of the first pur-

chaser.
1. Belinda was the daughter of James and Margaret Bradford. Several witnesses testify that they 'lived together as
man and'wife, acknowledged each other in that character,
and were reputed to be lawfully married. The will made by
'Mr Bradford, after being mortally wounded, bequeathes one
half of his estate to his wife, Margaret Bradford, "now pregnant ;" and the other half- to -his child "of which" she was
then pregnant.
To this testimony the appellant opposes some rumours that
they were -narned by-a military officer, a person not authorized
to perform the ceremony.
We cannot hesitate on this question. Belinda Bradford, the
child mentioned in the will of her fatherwmust unquestionably
be considered as legitimate.
2. It is alleged *that she- could not inherit this lot, unless
Thomas Doyle, Jun. died before the enactment of a law which
limited the inheritable capacity of the half blood to the blood
of the first purchaser; and the appellants insist that this fact is
not proved.
The court has not inquired into it, because Thomas Doyle,
Jun. is himself the frst purchaser, and may transmit the lot to
his half sister, whether on the part of the father or mother.
The plaintiff Belinda then succeeds to all the rights of Tho.
mas Doyle,. Jun, m the lot in controversy.

SUPREME COURT.
[Vattier v. linde.]

We are next to inquire how those rights' are affected by the
title of the appellants.
Charles Vattier, the appellant, claims under a sale made in
1802, by the sheriff of Hamilton county, by virtue of an execution issued on a judgment obtained against Thomas Doyle,
which he says -was levied on lot No. 86. At this sale he
alleges that he was the highest bidder, and, as such, became
the purchaser. The sheriff made the deed on the 14th of
July 1828. The consideration expressed is ninety dollars.
The appellees do not admit the fact that this lot was really
sold as the property of Thomas Doyle. The testimony, which
would seem to be conclusive, that this lot was sold as alleged
by Vattier, is repelled by circumstances of great weight. But,
admitting tlus fact to be completely established, its influence
in the cause is countervailed by'the circumstance that Thomas
Doyle had no semblance of title in law or equity to the lot on
which the execution was levied. The deed of William Jones,
in the -nameof William and Michael Jones, conveying the lot
to Thomas Doyle, Jun., was recorded in March 1800. If persons were not bound to notice this deed because the title of
Jones'did not appear on the record, still there was no trace of
title from any person whatever to Thomas Doyle. This sale,
then, was totally unauthorized, and could convey nothing.
No title being in Vattier, he could convey none to. Findley.
If then, at any time before the deed from Garrison to Findley,
a controversy had arisen respecting the title to this lot between
the heirs of Thomas Doyle, Jun. and Charles Vattier or his
vendee, each claunmg a conveyance of the legal title, the decision must have been in favour of Doyle's heirs. They had,
if not the legalnght, a complete equitable title, to which no
single objection could be made.
Was the conveyance from Garrison to Findley uiade under
circumstances which ought to defeat this title I
Charles Vattier having become largely indebted to James
Findley, this lot with other property is said to have been transferred to him in 1807, in part satisfaction of the debt. The
conveyance if any was made, is not adduced, nor have we
any satisfactory evidence, if one was made, that it included
this lot. It is not pretended that any money was paid in con,

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Vattier Y. Hinde.]

sequence of this arrangement. Some considerable time after
it, Findley, having become fully apprized of the defect in his
title, and of the conveyance to Thomas Doyle, Jun., applied
to Garrison, and, m 1815, obtained a conveyance from him.
He afterwards conveyed this property to Vattier. If Yattier
can now be deemed a purchaser without notice, his title cannot
be 'disturbed.
It is not alleged that either Vattier or Findley was without
knowledge of the rights of the appellees when the legal title
was acquired. It is contended that they acquired the property
and paid the purchase money without this knowledge, and
might therefore conscientiously protect themselves by getting
in the legal estate.
Let this allegation be examined.
In 1802 Vattier purchased the title of Thomas Doyle, the
elder, who had no title whatever. Whether he knew that a
conveyance had been made to Thomas Doyle, the younger, or
not,,is immateral. He could acquire nothing. The principle
caveat emptor is completely applicable.
The rules respecting a purchaser without notice are framed
for the protection of him who purchases a legal estate and
pays the purchase money without knowledge of an outstanding
equity. They do not protect a person who acquires no semblance of title. They apply fully only to the purchaser of the
legal estate. Even the purchaser of an equity is bound to
take notice of any prior equity. Vattier's original purchase,
then, cannot avail him, because he was bound to notice the
equity of Doyle. But there is, we think, much reason to believe that he had actual notice of that equity; or, at any rate,
was informed of circumstances which ought to have led to such
inquiry as would have obtained full notice.
The title of Garrison, under whom Doyle Was supposed to
claim, is presumed by the law to have been known to Vattier.
He ought to have inquired into it. In his answer, he says,
"he has been informed and believes that some kind of a contract was made by the said Abraham Garrison with William
and Michael Jones for the sale to them of the lot aforesaid."
He does not state the time when this information was pbtained,
nor is there any reason to believe that it was subsequQ" r to his

SUPREME COURT.
[Vattier v. Hinde.)

purchase. He also admits his informatiom and belief that W
and M. Jones sold their right to Thomas Doyle the elder,
who paid them the full consideration for the same, and took
in hio own right, and m the right of his -son. He does not
say when this information was obtained. He says he had no
other knowledge of the title of Thomas Doyle to the lot than
its being called his, and being sold as his. -These circumstances lead to the opinion that this information was received antenor to his purchase.
In so small a society as. was then settled in Cincinnati, it is
not probable that the title of Thomas Doyle the son, which
was of record, should have been unknown. It would, most
probably, be the subject of conversation. But be this as it
may, a purchaser was bound to make inquiries from Garrison.
Had the lot been sold as the property of Garrison, full notice
of the equity of Jones and of Doyle would be required to defeat the rights of the purchaser, but, being sold as the property
of Thomas Doyle, Sen., the purchaser was bound to inquire
into his title. In making these inquiries, Vattier, if-he then
possessed a knowledge of the sale to Jones; and if he did not,
he ought to have been more explicit m his ansver; should have
searched for a conveyance from Jones to Doyle. He must
have found one from Jones to Thomas Doyle, Jun. Under
these circumstances, Vattier ought to have taken notice of the
prior equity of Doyle. If he did not, he is chargeable with
negligence.
But it has been argued, that Findley purchased what he
supposed to be a legal title, and might protect hmself after
discovering his mistake.
Several answers have been given to this argument.
The lot was understood to have been sold as the property of
Thomas Doyle, Sen., and the sheriff's deed to Vattier stated it
to be sold as the property of John C. Symmes, under an execution against him. Symnies had no title. If it was actually
sold as the property of T. Doyle, Sen., he could show no semblance of title. James Findley, therefore, was bound to know
that he received from Vattier a property to which the vendor
had no other right than was given by possession. He was,
consequently, bound to take notice of all existing equities, and

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Vattlier v. Hinde.]

could not maintain ispossession against them. Had he been
about to make a purchase, he must have examined the title of
Vattier, and must have discovered that he had none. Upon
such examination, the deed from Jones could scarcely have
escaped his notice.
Findley had paid no money for the lot. The character of
the transaction between Vattier and himself is not explained.
A new arrangement of all their affairs appears to have taken
place, by which this lot was returned. Previous-to this new
arrangetbent, he had full notice of the title of the appellees,
and with this notice purchased from Garrison at a great under,value. It is not alleged, nor can we presume that he was
driven to this purchase as theF only refuge to protect himself
from loss. Had such an allegation been made, it would require an examination of the contract and transactions between
himself and Vattier; but it is not made.

Upon a full consideration of all the circumstances under
which Findley bought from Garrson,.we cannot consider hun
as entitled to that protection which a court of equity affords to
a man who purchases a legal title and pays the purchase
money, without notice of an equity existing against the property which had been sold to him. At the time of acquinng
the legal title, he had full notice of the equity of the appellees;
and we do not think he has shown himself to'have been placed
in a situation which would justify his procuring a conveyance
from Garrison. If he was not himself protected agaimst the
equity of Doyle's representatives, he could communicate no
protection to Vattier, who had himself full notice.
The, conveyance to Lytle, and the reconveyance froni hum,
cannot affect the case, because no money was paid.
If, then,. the case of the~appellees had been correctly stated
in their bill, we should have thought them entitled to the relief
for which they prayed. But it was not correctly stated. The
bill sets forth a title in Belinda, the wife. of Thomas S. Hinde,
by direct descent from her brother to herself, and insists on this
title.
The answer resists the claim because the land had been
conveyedlby the plaintiffs, before the institution of their suit,
VOL. VII.-2 K

SUPREME COURT.
[Vattier v. Hinde.]

to Alexander Cummings. The plaintiffs, in their replication,
admit the execution of the deed to Cummings, but aver that it
was made in trust to reconvey the same rights to the said
Thomas, to be held by him in trust for the use and benefit of
the said Belinda and her heirs, and to enable-the said Thomas
the more conveniently to manage, litigate and protect the said
rights; and that the said Alexander Cummings did afterwards,
in execution ofthe said trust, make a deed to the said Thomas,
which is recorded in the proper county. The deed referred to
is exhibited, but expresses no trust for the wife and her heirs.
Will the rules of the court of chancery permit this departure
in the replication from the statements of the bill?
It is well settled that a decree must conform to the allegations of the party, as well as to his proofs. The answer, supported as it is by the deed to Cummings, would- have put the
plaintiffs out of court, had they not made a new case in their
replication. Ought not this case to have been made m their
bill, and can the omission to make it be supplied by averments
in the replicationl
The act for regulating processes in the courts of the United
States, vol. 2, p. 299, enacts, that "the forms and modes of
proceedings" in courts of equity and in those of admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction, shall be "according to the principles,
rules and usages which belong to courts of equity and to courts
of admiralty respectively, as contradistinguished from.courts of
common law ;" subject, however, to such alterations, &c.
This act has been generally understooa t o adopt the principles, rules and usages of the court of chancery of England.
By the principles, rules and usages of that court, the plamtiffg,
in such a case as this, must have amended their bill. 2 Mad.
Ch. 275, 286, Mitf. PI. 256. They could not have been permitted to make-a new case in their replication.
The act permits this court to-prescribe rules for the practice
of the circuit courts. Rules have been prescribed in pursuance
of this power, but they allow a special replication to be filed
only with leave of the court. This replication was filed .ithout leave, and is consequently not saved by the rule. We
think it obviously proper that the real case should have been
stated in the bill, and'that the decree ought not to have been

JANUARY TERM 1833.
fVattier v. Hinde.]

-

pronounced in the actual state of the pleadings. For this fault
we are of opinion that the decree ought to be reversed, and the
cause remanded, with directions to permit the plaintiffi to
amend their bill.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit court.of the United States for the district of Ohio, and was argued by counsel. on consideration
whereof, this court is of opinion, that to entitle themselves to
the decree which was pronounced m their favour, the plaintiffs
in the circuit court ought to have stated their case truly in
their bill as it now appears on the record, and that after the
amended answer was filed, showing the deed from Thomas S.
Hinde and Belinda his wife to Alexander Cummings, the
plaintiffs ought to have obtained leave to amend their bill, so
as to mtroduce into it the reconveyance from Alexander Cummings to Thomas S. Hinde, on the trusts agreed on between
the parties, instead of alleging this new matter in their replication. This court is further of 9pimon that the circuit court
ought not to have pronounced its decree, and" that for this
cause the decree ought to be reversed, and is hereby reversed,
so far as it -directs a conveyance to be made by the appellant,
Charles Yattier, and the cause is remanded to the circuit court4
with directions to permit the plaintiffs to amend their bill.

