28

THE UNITED

SUPREME COURT.

STATES,

TLAINTIFPS

IN

ERROR V.

T0OfAS

FILLEBROWN, JUN.
The United States instituted an action to recover a balance, certified at the
treasury, against the'defendant on the settlement of his accounts as secretary to the commissioners of the navy hospital fund. Upon this settlement, thedefendant setup a claimfor compensation, forwhathe considered
extra services, in bringing up and arranging the records of the board,
antecedent to his appointment as secretary; and also for commissions on
the disbursement of moneys under the orders of the board. These claims
were rejected by the accounting officers of the treasury, and were
on the trial set up by way of set-off against the demand on the part of
the United States. Held. that the allowance of compensation by a
fixed salary to the defendant, as the secretary of the board of the navy
hospital comnssioners, ,did not exclude his right to claim extra comv enastion for the disbursement of moneys belonging to the navy hospital
fund.
Held: that it was not necessary to entitle the defendant to such compensa.
tion, that the board of commissioners should have passed a resolution for
the payment of such commissions, and that the claim of commissions
should have been sanctioned and settled by the board, m order to enable
the defendant to set up a claim against the United States.
The authority of the commissioners to appoint a secretary was not demed, and this same authority must necessarily exist, to appoint agents
and superintendents for the management of the business connected with
the employment of the fund, and which, in the absence of any regulation by law on the subject, must carry with it a right to determine the
compensation to be allowed, them.
From the testimony in.the case, it is -very certain that the secretary of the
navy consideredthe agency of tbe defendant in relation to-the fund as entirely distinct from his duty as secretary, 4nd for which he was to have
extra compensation. And it is fairly to be collected from his deposition
that all this received the-direct sanction of all the commissioners. But
whether it did or not, it was binding on the board, for the secretary of
the navy was the acting compnssioner, having the authority of -theboard
for doing what he did, and his acts were the acts of the board, in judgment of law. It was therefore an express contract entered into between the board or its agent, and the defendant, and it was not in the
power of the board, composed even of the- same men, after the service
had been perfonmed, to rescind the contract, and withhold from the
defendant the stipulated compensation. There is no doubt, th 9 board,
composed of other members, had the same power over this matter as the
former board; but it cannot be admitted that it had any greater power.

JANUARY TERM 1833.

29

[United States v. Fillebrown.]
The rejection therefore of these claims, on the 7th.of September 1829,
after all the services had been performed by the defendant, can have no
influence upon the question.
There is no general principle of law known to the court, and no authority
has been shown establishing the doctrine that all the proceedings of such
boards must be in writing, or that they shall be deemed void, unless the
statute under which they act shall require their proceedings'to be reduced
to writing. It is certainly fit and proper that every important transaction
of the board should be committed to .writing; but the law imposes no
such indispensable duty. The act of 1811, 4 Laws U. S. 311, constituting the fund'for navy hospitals, only makes the secretaries of the navy,
treasury and war departments, aboard icommssioners, by the name and
styli of commissioners of navy hospitals, anid gives some general directions in what vray the fund is to be employed: but the mode and manner
of transacting their business is not in sny way prescribed.
It is not true even with respect to corporations, that all their acts must be
established by positive record evialence. In the case of the Bank of the
United States v. Dandridge, 12 Wheat. 69, this court 6ay, "we do not adinit
as a general proposition, that the acts of a corporation are invalicrimerely
from an omisson to have them reduced to writing, unless the statute creating it, makes such writing indispensable as evidence, or to givethem an
obligatory force. If the statute imposes such restriction, it must be obeyed.
If the board had authority to employ the defendant to perform the servces which he has rendered, andthese services have been actually rendered
at the request of the board, thelaw impliesapromiseto payfor the 6ane.
This principle is fully established in the case of the -United States v.
Wilkins, 6 Wheat. 143 which brought under the consideration of the
court, the act of the 3d of March 1797, 2 Laws U. S. 594, providing for
the settlement of accounts between the United States, and public receivers.
The mstructipns given to the jury by the circuit court were: if the jury
believe from the evidence, that the regular duties to be performed by the
defendant, as secretary to the commissioners of the navy hosptal find,
at the stated salary of two hundred and fifty dollars per antum,.did not
extend to the receipt and disbursement of the fund that the duty of receiving and disbursing the fund was required f and performed by him,
as an extra service, over and. above the regtilar duties of-his saidappoit.
ment: that it has been for many years the general practice of the govern.
ment and its several departments to allow to persons, though holding
offices or clerkships, for the proper duties of. which they receive stated
salaries or. other fixed compensation, commissions, over and above such
salaries or other compensation, upon the receipts and disbursements of
public moneys, appropriated by law for particulir services, when such
receipts and disbursements werenot among the ordinary and regular
duties appertaining to such offices or clerkships, but superdded labour
and responsibility,, apart from such ordinary and regular duties. and that
the defendanttook upon himself the labour and responsibility of Ax me.

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Filebrown.]
ceipts and expenditures of the navy hospital fund, at the request of said
commissioners, or with an understanding on both sides, that he shouldbe
compensated for the same, as extra service, by the allowance of a commission on the amount of such receipts and expenditures: then it is competent for the jury m this case, to allow such commission to the defendant,
on the said receipts and disbursements, as the jury may find tobave been
dgreed upon between the said commissioners and the defendant. or, in
the absence of any specifi, hgreement, fixing the rate of commissions
at such rate as the jury shall flndtb be reasonable and conformable to the
general usage of the government, and its departments, in the like
cases. These instructions were entirely correct, and in conformity.to the
rules and principles of the law on this subject.
Upon the trial of this cause, the defendant offered to prove, by parol testimony, the general usage of the different departments of the government,
m allowing conmissions to the officers of goverhment upon disbursements
of money under a special authority not connected with their regular official duties. The counsel of the United States objected to the admLson
of parol evidence to prove such usage, but the court permitted the eviIlence to be given. By the court: we see no grounds for objection
against the usage offered to be proved, and the purpose for which it
was o offered, as connected with the very terms upon which the defendant-was employed to perform the services. It was not for the purpose
of establishing the right, but to show the measure of compensation, and
the manner m which it was to be paid.

IN error to the circuit court of the United States for the distnct of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington.
The United States, on the 23d day of May 1829, instituted
a suit in the circuit court of the district of Columbia, for the
recovery of the sum of .two thousand "and seven dollars and
eighty-four cents, to which amount the declaration alleged the
4efendant in error, Thomas "Fillebrown, Jun., to be indebted
to the United States, "for sundry matters and articles properly

chargeable in account, as stated in a particular account, &c.1
The declaration also contained the common counts of goods
sold and delivered, money laid out and expended, money had
and received, and an account stated and settled, &c. The
defendant pleaded non assumpsit, &c.
The cause was tried by a jury at May term 1830, and a
verdict was given in favour of the United States, for one thousand nine hundred and thirty-seven dollars and seventy cents;
which verdict was, on the motion of the counsel for the defendant, set aside, -and a new trial ordered.

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[United States v. Fillebrown.] "

On the first Monday of May 1831, the-cause was again tried
by a jury, and the following verdict was rendered in favour of
the defendant, upon which the court entered judgment.
"And the jurors aforesaid, at the time of bringing in their
verdict aforesaid, filed in court here the following certificate,
to wit. 'The jurors empannelled in the case of the United
States v. Thomas Fillebrown, Jun., find, upon examining the
accounts filed, that the United States are indebted to the said
Fillebrown in the sum of four hundred and thirty dollars.
"'Witness our hands, this 26th day of May 1831.'
From this judgment-the United States prosecuted a.writ of
error.
On the trial of the case, the deposition of Samuel L. Southard, Esq., late segretary of the navy of the United States, was
read in evidence -on the part of the defendant.
In the testimony of Mr Southard it was stated, that from
the year 1825 to March 1829, he, Mr Southard, was secretary
of the navy, and one of the commissioners of "the navy hospital fund." The situation of this fund was such as to require
constant and earnest attention. Thomas Fillebrown, Jun., the
defendant, was, by the board, appointed its secretary for the
discharge of those duties, and is salary was fixed at two hundred and fifty dollars per annum.
Mr Southard was, by the direction of the board, and by previous practice and usage, acting commissioner of the fund, and
attended to all matters connected with it, except in cases of
new arrangements; the expenditure of money on a new'object,
or the settlement of a new principle.: when the whole board
was consulted, and his acts authorized or sanctioned by it.
Mr Fillebrown's appointment had the direct and express sanction of the board; and it was understood that he was to diqcharge his duties at such times, and in such manner, as not to
interfere with his duties as a clerk in the navy department,
which situation he held at .the time of his appointment, and
continued to hold.
His appointment was in October or November 1825, but the
records of the fund do not show the whole amount of labour
which he had to perform; his duties were often both troublesome and laborious.

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Fillebrown.]

Some time after his appointment, it was cobsidered proper to
procure necessary books, and to make retrospective examinations into records and accounts in certain public offices, and to
do whatever should be required to put the fund in a proper
condition. This was regularly the duty of the secretary of the
fund, but as it related to a period aterior to his appointment,
for which he could not receive a compensation in his salary as
secretary, it was thought proper to allow him a salary for
such period previous to his actual appointment, as would be
proportionate to the additional labour actually performed by
him, and such allowance was made about May 1826, and had
the approbation of the board. The allowance was regarded m
the light of extra service, atad was given in this form to show
the character of the service rendered by the defendant in error.
Subsequent to the appointment of the defendant, the navy
hospital fund became sufficient for the purchase of sites for
hospitals, and to commence the erection of buildings. The
money collected was placed in the hands of the treasurer of the
United States, as the treasurer of the fund, and a special agent
who should attend carefully to collecting and disbursing it was
found indispensable. Tins did not belong to the duties of the
secretary of the -board, but it was thought best to give the
agency to him on account of his knowledge of the mterests
connected with tha fund, and his fitness for it.
The manner and the forms of transacting the business were
arranged with the defendant by Ai Southard, as the acting
commissioner, the responsibility attending the payment and
transmission of money was imposed upon the defendant:. and
at all times he acted uprightly, diligently and skilfully in every
thing relating to the subject.
In so doing, it was the understanding of the commissioners
that he should receive compensation in the mode and according
to the practice of the government in other and similar cases:
but Mr-Southard said he did not distinctly recollect whether it
was to be by a specific sum, or by a per centage on the money
disbursed, but was under the impression that it was the latter,
that being the usual mode in such cases.
He was under the impression that he did, by the authority
of the board, allow one or more of the accounts presented by

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[United States v. Fillebrown.l

Mr Fillebrown, in conformity with the facts and principles
stated, and that such approval and allowance will be found on
file in the office of the secretary of the fund. He very well
recollectedi that about the Ist of March 1829, Mr Fillebrown
called on him with his accounts, desiring their adjustment and
allowance; he was then very sick and not able to examine
them, or consult the other commissioners; he therefore dictated
to ai amanuensis, a letter to Mr Fillebrown, expressing his
views and opinions respecting his claims, which letter is probably dated on the 2d of March 1829, and now on file among
the papers of the fund, he then believed, and still.believes, that
Mr Fillebrown was entitled to a just compensation ior the performance of the duties before mentioned.
The appointment of Mr Fillebrown as secretary of the commissioners of naval hospitals, was entered on the minutes of
the board.at a meeting of the commissioners of naval hospitals,
in the city of Washington, on the 7th day of November 1825.
"Present, Hon. Samuel L. Southard, secretary of the navy;
Hon. Richard Rush, secretary of the treasury; Hon. James
Barbour, secretary of war.
"It was resolved, that a secretary be appointed to this board,
to take charge of the books, papers, &c. belonging to the hospital fund;-and to execute such duties relative thereto, as may
be required of him by the board, for which services he shall be
allowed the sum of two hundred and fifty dollars per annum.
"1Resolved, that Mr Thomas Fillebrowrn, Jun. be appointed
secretary.
"And then the board adjourned."
Of this appointment he was informed on the same day,
"1NAVY DEPARTMENT, 7th .N'oember 1825.
"'Mr THOMAS FILLEBROWN, Jun., Present.
"Sir--Y'ou are hereby appointed' secretary to the board of
commissioners of thenaval hospital fund. The duties appertaming to this appointment you will commence forthwith.
Your compensation will be two hundred and fifty dollars per
annum.
"I am, respectfully, &c.
" SAMUEL L. SOUTHARD."

The retrospective duties referred to in the dqposition of Mr
VOL. VII.-E

SUPREME COURT
[United States v. Fillebrown.]

Southard, were authorized, and a compensation for the same
allowed by the following letter"
"NAVY

DEPARTMENT,

22d .May 1822.

FILLPBOWN, Present:
"Sir --Inconsideration of the duties performed by you since
your appointment as secretary to the commissioners of navy
hospitals, you may consider your appointment as ante-dated six
months, and draw a warrant for your salary for that period.
"I am, respectfully, &c.

"Mr THOMAS

" SAMUEL L. SOUTHARD."

The following letter was also read in evidence.
" NAVY

DEPARTMENT,

2d March 1829.

"Sir:-It was my intention before I left the department, to
have submitted to the consideration of the other commissioners
of the navy hospital fund; your claim and account for compensation for attending to the disbursement of the moneys of the
fund, whiblh have passed through your hands since your appointment as secretary. I consider the claun perfectly-just,
and do not doubt but a fit compensation would have been
made, could the question have been submitted to the board.
Neither the responsibility nor the labour is embraced within
your duties as secretary,- and if any other person had been appointed to perform them, an allowance must necessarily have
been made to hun.
"I do not doubt when the commissioners shall understand
the merits of the claim, that no hesitation will be felt on the
subject.
"Nothing but my severe and protracted indisposition during
the whole winter, has heretofore prevented its adjustment.
"I am, respectfully, &c.
"SAMUEL
"THOMAS

FILLEBROWIN

L. SOUTHARD.

Esq.

"Sec. .Nav. Albs. Fund, W khrngton."
Other evidence was introduced for the purpose of showing
that the allowances of commissions had been made by the
government to others, upon similar pnnciples with those on
which the defendant rested his claims.
This evidence was furnished by accounts settled at, the office
of the third auditor of the treasury, with officers of the army

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[United States v. Fillebrown.]

of the United States, employed in the years 1822, 1823, 1824
and 1825, in which allowances of commissions, &c. were made,
and compensafion paid for extra services. Twenty-seven accounts were exhibited containing these allowances. Part of
the testimony was extracted from a report of the fourth auditor
made to the house of representatives at the second session of
the nineteenth congress. H. R. Documents, 41.
Paol evidence of a usage in the public departments to admit
and pay such charges by the officers and agents of the government, was also given. The accounts of thp defendant, as settled by the accounting officers of the treasury, were also given
m evidence.
The plaintifis in error took two bills of exceptions to the decisions of the circuit court on the trial of the cause.
The first bill of exceptions, after setting forth the evidence
given on the trial, states,
"Upon the- evidence so given, the counsel for the United
States prayed the court to instruct the jury"Thatif, from the evidence aforesaid, it should appear to them
that the defendant had accepted the appointment of secretary
of the board of navy hospital commissioners, upon the terms
mentioned in the said apponitment, and in the said letter of'
S. L. Soutirard to him, of the th of November 1825, as herein
before stated, that in that case, he was not entitled to any
extra compensation for the disbursement of the moneys belongI
ing to the said navy hospital fund, and that he was only entitled to two hundred and fifty dollars a year, for the whole of
the services performed by him for the said board.
"And the said plaintiffs prayed the court further to instruct
the jurycc That, if they should be satisfied by the evidence aforesaid,
that the said board of navy commissioners had never passed
any order or resolution for the payment of any conmission
upon the moneys disbursed by the defendant for the said board,
and that the claim for commissions, which he now makes, had
never ben sanctioned or settled by the said board, that it is
not competent for him now to set up the said claim for-commissions against the clai of the United States, for which this suit
is brought.

SUPREME COURT:
[United States v. Fillebrown.]
"Which instructions the court refused and thereupon, at
the instance of the defendant, instructed the jury as follows
"If the jury believe, from the evidence, that the regular
duties to be performed by the defendant, as secretary to the
commissioners of the navy hospital fund, at the stated salary
of two hundred and fifty dollars per annum, did not extend to
the receipt and disbursement of the fund, that the duty of receiving and disbrsing the fund ,as required of and performed.
by him, as an extra service over and above the regular duties
of his said appointment, that it has been for many years the
general practice of the government and its several departments,
to allow to persons, though holding offices or clerkships, for the
-proper duties of which they received stated salaries or other
fixed compensation, commissions over and above such salaries
or other compensation, upon the receipts and disbursements of
public moneys, appropriated by law for particular services
when such receipts and disbursements were not among the ordinary and regular duties appertaining to such offices or clerkships, but superadded labour and responsibility apart from such
ordinary a id regular duties, and that defendant took upon
himself the labour and responsibility of such receipts and expenditures of the navy hospital fund, at the request of said
commissioners, either 'nder an agreement, or with an understanding on both sides, that he should be compensated tor the
same, as extra service, by the allowance of a commission on
the amount of such receipts and disbursements, then it is
competent for the jury, in this case, to allow such commissions
to the defendant, on the said receipts and disbursements, as the
jury may find to have been agreed upon between the said commissioners and defendant, or, in the absence of any specific
agreement fixing the rate of such commissions, such rate as
the jury shall find to be reasonable, and conformable to the
general usage of the government and its departments in the
like cases.
,"To which refusal of the court to give the instructions
mo.vyed by the plaintiffs,-and. to the said instructions given at
the irdstance of the defendant, plaintiffs except."
The second bill of exceptions was as follows
.Ulpon the trial of this cause, the defendant offered to prove,

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[United States v. Fillebrown.]

by the testimony contained m the preceding bill of exceptirns,
the .general usage of the different departments of the government, in allowing commissions to the officers of government
upon disbursements of money under a special authority not
connected with their regular official duties. The counsel of
the United States objected to the admission of parol. evidence
to prove such usage. But the court permitted the evidence to
be given, and the same was given accordingly. To which
opinion and admission of the court, the plaintiffs by their coun-.
sel except, and this their bill of-exceptions is signed, sealedand ordered to be enrolled this 26th of May 1831."
The case was argued by Mr Taney, attorney-general, for
the United States, and by Mr Coxe and Mr Jones, for the defendant.
For the United States it was contended
1. That the defendant is not entitled to an allowance for
salary as secretary for the time claimed in his account anterior
to his appointment in November 7, 1825.
2. That he was not entitled to. a credit for the commissions
"ondisbursements mentioned in the exceptions.
3. That the usage and practice of the officers of the executive departments of the government to make such allowances,
is not admissible in evidence for the purpose of proving their
legal right to make them in this case.
The attorney-general referred to the acts of congress of
March 2, 1799, 3 Laws U. S. 26.6, and of 26th of February
181 1-4 Laws U. S. 338, relative to the navy hospital fund,
and the appointment of the commissioners of the same.
The evidence in the case contains the letter of Mr Southard
relative. to the appointment of the.defendant as secretary to the
board of commissioners of the navy hospital fund. The appomtment was made on the 7th November 1825, and the
compensation fixed at two hundred and fifty dollars per annum,
and on the 22d May 1826 Mr Southard agreed- to ante-date
his salary six months.
On the 27th September 1829, J. H. Eaton, the secretary of
war, and John Branch, the secretary of the navy, acting-as a

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Fillebrown.]

board iff commissioners of the navy hospital fund, made the
-following order, which was filed in the office of the fourth auditor of the treasury
"Mr Fillebrown, it appears, was appointed secretary m November 7, 1825. He can be entitled to pay, as such, only
from the date of his appointment. The allowance of one per
cent on the moneys disbursed, cannot be allowed, unless authorized by some existing law, none such is known to the commissioners , of course they cannot haye authority to admit it.
"1J. H. EATON.
"JoHN BRANCH.

SSeptember 7, 1829."

The duties of the secretary of the board were not defined
they were, to do whatever the board should require from him.
But it is not contended that the defendant's receiving a salary
will preclude his receiving extra compensation for extra services. The question must turn upon the inquiry whether disbursements of the hospital fund were extra services I
From the nature of the services, they were necessarily a part
of the duties of the secretary of the board, and the practice of
allowing commissions on the payment of money under similar
circumstances .is not proved by the testimony to have been
uniform or frequent.
The allowance for extra salary before the appomtment of
the defendant, could not be made by the secretary of the navy
alone. It required the approbation of the board. The defendant had, therefore, no legal right to this allowance, and it
should have been refused by the jury, under proper instructions
from the court.
To give the proceedings of the board a legal and binding
effect, they should have been in writing. Unless thus shown,
the acts of the board cannot be proved. The assertion of Mr
Southard, that the board approved of the allowance for the
extra services in arranging and examining the accounts which
existed before his appointment, is not sufficient to establish the
right of the defendant to the same. It is doubtful, whether
the proceedings of the board could be proved by parol, but this
is not the question before the court; it is whether such parol*
order could overrule what a former'board had done in writing.

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[United States v. Fillebrown.]

It is also suggested, that the proceedings of the board i
1829, by which the extra allowance was rejected, may contol
the same. This was the act of the board, and itisimmatenal
whether it was composed of the same or of different mdividualso.
As to the commissions claimed 'on the disbursement of the
money of the fund, it was argued by the attorney-general, that
all publib agents, unless in certain specified cases, must be
appointed by the president. This is the provision of the act of
March 3, 1809. 4 Laws, U. S. 220. Disbursements of the
navy hospital fund come within the principles which regulate
disbursements for the use of the navy; and if the act of 1809
applies to these disbursements, the commissioners could not.
appoint a disbursing officer.
No evidence of usage was admissible. If there was no lawon the subject, no usage, could sustain the practice. But if it
was customary for a different description of officers to receive
extra compensation, or commissions, no such custom could
apply to a new office. The usage of the officers in the departments cannot make a law which shall bind the government.
Usage, as connectedwith a particular dffice, may be evidehce
of an implied contract. But that cannot apply to newly
created officers.
In reply to the argument for the defendant in error, the attorney-general admitted that the commissioners might,appoint
and employ agents to execute-the duties attending the operations they were authorized to have conducted and executed; but
such agen t s, he considered, must be appointed by the board. If
a contract is made by an officer, it must be made under the
authority of some law; and by the law, all authority was
given to the board.
The defendant might have been employed to perform extra
services for the board of commissioners;, and he was not disqualified by reason of his being the secretary. But who had
the power to authorize these services.
It is not pretended that the government is not bound by Implied contracts, when services have been performed at the request of the government. But the agent who can thus bind it,
must have authority tomake the contract, or employ the person
.to perform the service out of which the implied contract anses.

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Pillebrown.]

A debt which can be set off against d: claim by the government, must be one growing out of some contract or employment
authorized by law" but it is denied that, under the act of
1797, all equitable demands against the government may be
set off in a court of justice.
The acts of Mr Southard cannot be considered as the acts
of the board, nor can those acts be proved by parol evidence,
in opposition to the written proceedings of the board. All he
did, must be considered subject to a ratification by the board;
and void, unless so ratified. In this case, his acts were disaffirmed by the board in 1829, when the board acted in refer-nce to them.
Nor could the board settle the defendant's accounts; they
must be settled by the accounting officers of the treasury, m
the ordinary way of settling accounts. The account of the
defendant having been settled at the treasury, and his claims
to the extra salary and for commissions disallowed there, the
practice and understanding at the 'treasury, is shown to be
adverse to such claims.
Mr Coxe and Mr Jones, for the defendant in error.
The allowance of a compensation for attention to the accounts
of the navy hospital fund, and what was included in the duties
assigned by the letter of Mr Southard, of the 22d May 1826,
was in conformity with the frequent usages of the government.
This was fully proved by the evidence. This principle has
also had the ratification of the legislature. The usual duties
of secretary could only have been prospective, and it was extra
services to bring up the arrears of the board.
By an act of congress, of the 3d of March 1831, two thousand dollars were allowed to the clerk of the supreme court,
for bringing up the minutes of the court; and for services which
should have been performed by his predecessor. So the defendant in error was not bound as the secretary of the board to
bring up old records of the proceedings of the commissioners,
and to examnne accounts which existed before his appoimitipent.
The commissioners had authority to appoint a secretary under
the third section of the act of 1811
The powers given to the
board by that section, nocessarily imply a power to appoint'

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[United States v. Fillebrown.]

agents, and to do what the trusts they had to perform required.
They could not attend in person to the business and operations
which the application of the funds under their charge enjoined
upon the board. These operations were -carried on in different
parts of the United States.
The testimony and the correspondence of Mr Southard,
show that a contract was made by him with the defendant,
that an allowance was specified for the duties he was engaged
in, which had the approbation of the board. The allowance
presupposes the right to claun it. This was proved by competent evidence, as the board did not keep regular records of
its proceedings, and no objection was made on the trial to the
parol evidence; so that it is now free from all exceptions.
Nor can the rejection, in 1829, of the allowance of the salary
under the letter of the 22d of May 1826, by the successors of
those who made it, be of any value. The contract was made
with full authority to make it, the duties which were the subject of the compensation, had been performed, and those who
thus claimed the right to refuse or withhold the same, had no
authority to do so.
As to the instructions given by the circuit court on the second prayer of the plaintiffs in error, it was -argued that they.
were m conformity to the law, upon the evidence of the usage
of the government in its different departments. This general
construction of the acts of congress, and these harmomous
views of the rights of those who performed extra services,
°
should, have due consideration.
There is no validity in the objection that such claims as
those of 'Mr Fillebrown cannot be made the subject of set-off.
All equitable claims, which have been properly exhibited in
the first instance to the accounting officers, may be set up
against the demands of the United States. The nature of the
objection of the government to those who have been employed
by them, entitles them to be so regarded. Pothier on Obligations, 1.
The powers given to the comptroller of the treasury in relation to the settlement of accounts by the act of congress of
1795, 2 Laws U. S. 502, making hun the final judge upon
claims presented to him, were, by the act of 1797,.2 Laws U.
VOL. VII.-F

SUPREME COURT.
(United States v. Fillebrom]

S. 594, transferred to the courts;. with the limitadionthat those
claims must be first presented to the accounting officers of the
treasury. Under the provisions of this act, all equitable as well
as legal claims, founded on contract or the usage-of the departments, may be brought forward before the court, and submitted under its direction to a jury. The government, by this
act, places itself m the situation of an individual. The claims
of the defendant are admitted, by the attomey-general, to be
equitable.
The allowances of commissions are not forbidden by any
statute, and the rules of -thenavy department admit them.
Navy Rules; 17.
Cited, 3 Wheat. 173, to show the force of rules. Upon the
principles contended for$ cited, 6 Wheat. 135, 142, 1 Mason,
21, 12 Wheat. 559.
The case of the United States v. Watkins, 6 Wheat. 135,
shows that any legal or equitable claim may be set off and it is
immaterial whether the claunof Mr Fillebrown had or had not
been sanctioned by the board. The question is mucj broader.
Did the board require or employ him to perform the services,
and was he entitled to any and what compensation for it I
His duty as secretary did, not at all embrace the disbursement
of the money of'the fund. This was a duty of great responsibility, and this, as well as bringing up-the arrears of records,
was extra service.
o

Mr Justice THOmPsoN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case comes before tke court on a writ of error to the
circuit court of the district of Columbia. The action was
brought-to recover a balance certified at the tr dcsury against
the defendant, on the settlement of his accounts as secretary of
the commissioners of the navy hospital fund. Upon this settlement, the defendant set up a claun for compensation, for
what he considered extra services, in bringing up and'arranging the records of the board antecedent to. his appointment as
secretary, and also for commissions on the disbursemients of
moneys under the orders of the board. These claims had been
rejected by the accounting officers of the treasury, *and were
now set up by way of set off against the demand pn the part

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[United States v. Fillebrown.]

of the United States; and the questions before the circuit court
were, whether the defendant was entitled to the compensation
he clanned.
Upon the trial, after the testimony was closed, the counsel
for the United States prayed the court to instruct the jury as
follows
1. That if, from the evidence aforesaid, it should appear to
them that the defendant had accepted the appointment of secretary of the board of navy hospital commissioners upon the
terms mentioned in the said appointment, and in the letter of
Samuel L. Southard to hn, of the 7th of November 1825, as
hereinbefore stated, that in that case he was not entitledto
any extra compensation for the disbursement of the moneys
belonging to the said navy hospital fund, and that he was
only entitled to two hundred and fifty dollars a year, for the
whole of the services performed by hun for the said board.
2. That if they should be satisfied, by the evidence aforesaid, that the said board of commissioners had never passed
any order or resolution for the payment of any commission,
upon the moneys disbursed-by the defendant for the said board,
and that the claim for commissions which he now makes, had
never been sanctioned or settled by the said board, that it is
not competent for lurn now to set up the said claim for commissions against the claim of the United States, for which this
suit is brought.
Which instructions the court refused to give but at the instance of the defendant's counsel gave other instructions which
will be hereafter noticed.
The jury found a verdict for the defendant, and certified a
balance in his favour, against the United States, for four hundred and thirty dollars, and the case comes here oLa bill of
exceptions.
Whether the first instruction asked on the part of the United
States ought to have been given, must depend upon the defendant's appointment as secretary, and the extent of his duties
under that appointment. The court was requested to instruct
the j.ury, that if the defendant had accepted the appointment
oh the terms mentioned, he was entitled to no compensation.

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Fillebrown.]

beyond his salary of two hundred and fifty dollars, for any services performed by him for the board.
The. second instruction asked, involves the inquiry whether
some order or resolution of the board for the payment of the
commissions was not mdispensabfy necessary to entitle the defendant to the allowance claimed by him.
The defendant was appointed secretary, at a regular meeting
of the board, on the 7th of November 1825; and so far as Ins
duties are defined, they are to be collected from the following
resolution
"Resolved, that a secretary be appointed to this board, to
take charge of the books, papers, &c. belonging to the hospital
fund, and to execute such duties relative thereto, as may be requgred of-him by the board, for which services he shall be allowed
the sum of two hundred and fifty dollars per annum."
The authority of the commissioners to appomt a secretary
has not been dened, and this same authority must necessarily
exist to appoint- agents and ,6uperintendents for the management of the business connected with the employment of the
fund, and which, in the .absence of any regulation by law on
the st4bject, must cany with it a right to determine the compensation to be allowed them.
It is admitted, on the part of the United States, that the
defendant's being secretary of the board, forms no objection to
his performing other services not included in his duty as secretary, and receiving a compensation therefor in the same manner as any other person might.
The terms on which the defendant accepted the appointment
of secretary, being to execute such duties, relative thereto, as
should be required of him by the board, it becomes proper to
examime how the board considered the appointment, and what
duties were required of hun as secretary.
It is proper here to inquire how the secretary of the navy,
as one of the commissioners, stood in relation to the other
members of the board.
It is evident from the manner in which this fund was created,
and the purposes ana objects to which it was applied, that the
general and active superintendence over it belonged appropn-

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[United States v. Fillebrown.1

ately to the secretary of the navy. It was therefore almost
matter of course that the board should commit to him the
principal management of the business, and consider him the
agent of the board for that purpose. In addition to this, he
was actually constituted such agent by the board.
Mr Southard, m his deposition, states that he was, by the
direction of the board, and by the previous practice and usage,
acting commissioner of the fund, and attended to all matters
connected with it. But, when any new arrangements were to
be made, or money to be expended on a new object, he consulted with, and had the approval and authority of the whole
board. And all ins acts were considered as authorized and
sanctioned by the board.
With respect to the one hundred and twenty-five dollars
clanned for six months salary, Mr Southard. is very explicit.
This allowance, he says, was made for extra serinces, and related to a time previous to his appointment, and that the
allpwance had the approbation of the board. This was a service not required or considered by the boaril as coming within
Is duty as secretary under his appointnent, and a stipulated
compensation agreed to be paid him therefor. It is not perceived what possible objection can exist against his being
allowed this stipulated sum. Whether or not it was more than
a just compensation for his seriices, is a matter which this
court cannot inquire into. Indeed, that has not been pretended, if he is entitled to any thing beyond his salary of two hundred and fifty dollars.
With respect to the commissmons, Mr Southard says, that,
subsequent to the appointment of the defendant as secretary,
the commissioners were enabled by appropriations, and collecting money belonging to tle fund from various sources, to proceed to apply the funds to the establishment of navy hospitals
as required by the act of congress. That these funds were
placed m the hands of 'the treasurer of the United States, as
the treasurer of the commissioners; and that m collecting and
disbursing the fund, it was found indispensable to have an
agent who should attend carefully to it, and be responsible to
the board. That thus did not belong to the duties of the ecretary.
But that it was thought best to give the agency to him on

SIPREME COURT.
[United-States v. Fillebrown.]

account of his acquaintance with every part of the interest of
the fund, and his fitness to discharge the duty. That he was
appointed the agent with the understanding that he siould
receive a suitable compensation for the services he should-render in that capacity. That it was the understanding of the
comnssioners that he should receive compensation in the
mode, and according to the practice of the government m other
similar cases. That he is under the impression that this was
to be by a per centage on the money disbursed, and that he
is also under the impression that he did, by the authority of the
board, allow one or more of the accounts presented by the defendant in conformity to the facts and principles he has detailed.
From this testimony it is very certain that Mr Southard considered the agency of the defendant in relation to the fund as
entirely distinct from his duty as secretary, and for which he
was to have extra compensation. And it is fairly -to be collected from this deposition, that all this received the direct
sanction of all the commissioners. But, whether it did or not,
it was binding on the board, for the secretary of the navy was
the afting commissioner, having the authority of the board for
doing what he did, and his acts were the acts of the board, in
judgment of law. It was, therefore, an express contract entered
into between the board or its agent, and the defendant, and it
was not in the power of the board, composed even ofthe same
men, after the service had been performed, to rescm4 the contract, and withhold from the defendant the stipulated compen.
sation. There is no doubt the board composed of other members, had the same power over this matter as the former board.
But it cannot be admitted that it had any greater power. The
rejection, therefore, of these claims on the 7th of September
1829, after all the services had been performed by the defendant, can have no influence upon the question.
It has been argued, on the part of the United States, that the
sanction of the secretary of the navy, as one of the commis ioners, can give no right to the allowance without the concurrence of the other members. This proposition is not demed:
but the testimony of Mr Southard, as has been already shown,
goes fully to establish thq fact, that he had the -general autho-

JANUARY TERM 1833.
rUnited States v. Fillebrown.]
rity of the board to act as its agent, and leaves little or no
doubt of the sanction of the board to the particular clais in
question. It was, however, pretty strongly intimated at the
bar, though it was not understood to -be positively asserted,
that these facts could not be established by parol, but that the
proceedings of the board must be shown in writing. And this
would seem to be one of the questions intended to be made
under the second prayer. It would be a sufficient answer to
this, that no -objection was made at the trial to the admission
of the evidence. But the objection, if it had been made j could
not have been sustained. There is no general principle of law
known to the court, and no authority has been shown estabJishmig the doctrine, that all the proceedings of such boards
must be in writing, or that they shall .be deemed void, upless
the statute under which they act shall require their proceedings to be rendered to writing. It is certainly fit and proper
that every important transaction of the board should be committed to writing. But the law imposes no such indispensable
duty. The act of 1811, 4 Laws U. S. 311, constituting
the fund for navy hospitals, only makes the secretaries of the
navy, treasury and war departments, a board of commissioners
by the name and style of commissioners of navy hospitals, and
gives some .general directions in what way the fund is to be
employed; but the mode and manner of transacting their business is not in any respect prescribed. It is not true .even with
respect to corporations, that all their acts must be established
by positive record evidence. In the case of the Bank of the
United States v. Dandndge, 12 Wheat. 69, this court says,
"1we do not admit as a general proposition, that the acts of a
corporation are invalid merely from an omission to have them
reduced to writing, unless-the statute creating it makes such
writing indispensable as evidence, or to give them an obligatory force. If the statute imposes such restriction it must be
obeyed." Considering then the testimony of Mr Southard as
competent evidence to establish the acts of the board, it shows
very clearly, that the services rendered by the defendant, and
-for which he clams compensation, were not embraced within
his duties as secretary of the board, but were extra services,;
forvwhich the commissioiers agreed to make hun compensation.

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Fillebrown.]

Another question may perhaps arise under the latter branch
of the second prayer, whether the sanction or approval by the
board of commissioners was an indispensable preliminary step
to entitle the defendant to set up in the present action his clann
against the demand of the United States. And we- think it
was not. If the board had authority to employ the defendant
to perform the services which he has rendered, and these services have been actually rendered at the request of the board,
the law implies a promise to pay for the same.
This principle is fully established in the case of the United
States v. Wilkins, 6 Wheat. 143, which brought under the
consideration of the court the act of the 3d of March 1-797,
2 Laws U. S. 594, providing for the settlement of accounts
between the United States and public receivers. And the
court says, "there being no limitation as to the nature and
origin of the clais for a credit which may be set up in the
suit, we think it a reasonable construction of the act, that it
intended to allow the defendant the full benefit at the tnal of
any credit, whether ansing out of the particular transaction
for which he was sued, or out of any distinct and independent
transaction, which would constitute a legal or equitable set-off;
in whole or in part, of the debt sued for .by the United States,"
subject, of course, to the requirement of the act, that the claim
must have been presented-to the proper accounting officers and
disallowed.
The circuit court, therefore, properly refused to give the nstructions asked on the part of the United States.
The instructions giveti to the jury are as follows: If the jury believe from the evidence, that the regular duties
to be performed by the defendant as secretary to the commissioners of the navy hospital fund, at the stated salary of two
hundred and fifty dollars per annum, did not extend to the
receipt and disbursement of the fund, that the duty of receiving and disbursing the fund was required of, and performed by
hin as an extra service, over and above the regular duties of
his said appointment, that it has been for many years the
general practice of the government and its several departments
to allow to persons, though holding offices or clerkships, for the
proper duties of which they receive stated salaries or other fixed

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[Unitec States v. Fillebrown.]

compensation, commissions over and above such salaries or
other compensation, upon the receipts and disbursements of
public moneys appropriated by law for particular services, when
such receipts ai~d disbursements were not among the ordinary
and regular duties appertaining to such offices or clerkships,
but superadded labour and responsibility, apart from such ordinary and .regular duties: and that the defendant took upon
himself the labour and responsibility of such receipts and expenditures of the navy hospital fund at the request of said
commissioners, or with an understanding on both sides that he
should be compensated for the same as extra service, by the
allowance.of a commission on the amount of such receipts and
expenditures, then it is competent for the jury in this case to
allow such commissions to the defendant on the said receipts
and disbursements as the jury may find to have been agreed
upon between the said commissioners. and the defendant, or in
the absence of any specific agreement fixing the rate of commissions, such rate as the jury shall find to be reasonable, and
conformable to the general usage of the government and its
departments in the like cases.
These instructions were entirely correct, and in conformity
to the ifules and principles laid down in the, former part of this
opinion.
Another bill of exceptions was taken to the ruling of the
court, with respect to evidence of usage.
The record states, that upon the trial of this cause the defendant offered to prove, by the testimony contained in the
preceding bill of exceptions, the general usage of the different
departments of the government in allowing commissions to
the officers of government upon disbursements of money under
a special authority, not connected with their regular official
duties. The counsel of the Umted States objected to the admission of parol evidence to prove such usage, but the court
permitted the evidence to be given.
The reil pomt of this exception is not very apparent. From
the form in which it is put, it would seem that the objection
was to the admssion ofparol evidence of the usage. But this
probably was not -the restricted sense in which the objection
was intended to be made. The offer, however, was not to
VOL. VII.-G

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Fillebrown.],

introduce new evidence of usage, but to prove it by the testimony contained in the preceding bill of exceptions. It amounted, therefore, to nothing more than a mere inference or deduction from the evidence already before the court and jury, and
which had- been admitted without objection. But we see no
grounds for objection against the usage offered to be proved,
and the purpose for which it was so boffered, as connected with
the very terms upon which the defendant was employed to
perform the services. It was not for the purpose of establishing
the right, but to show the measure; of compensation, and the
manner m which it was to be paid. Mr Southard states that
it was the understanding of the comnussioners that the defendant was to receive compensation, m the mode and according
to the-practice of the government in other similar cases. And
the usage offered to be shown was, that such compensation
was made by allowing commissions on the disbursement of the
money expended, and in this point of view it was entirely unexceptior able.
We are accordingly of opimon that the judgment must be
affirmed.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcnpt of the
record from the circuit court of the United States for the distnct of Columbia holden m and for the county of Washington,
and was argued by counsel. on consideration whereof, it is
ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the
said circuit court in this cause be, and the same is hereby
affirmed.

