150

SUPREME COURT.

THE UNITED STATES V. GEORGd WILSON.
The defendant was indicted for robbing the mail of the United States, and
putting the life of'the driver ii jeopardy, and the conviction and judgmentpronounced upon it extended to Doh offences. After this judgment no prosecution could be maintained ior the same offence, or for any
part of it provided the former conviction was pleaded.
rhe power of pardon in crumnal cases had been exercised from time inmemoral by the executive of that nation whose language is our language;
and to whose judicial institutions, ours bear a close resemblance. We
adopt their principles respecting the operation and effect uf a pardon,
and look ito their books for the rules prescribing the manner in which
it is to be used by the person who would avail himself of it. A pardon is
an act of grace, proceeding from the power entrusted with the execution
of the laws, which exempts the individual on whom it is bestowed from
the punishment the law inflicts for a crime he has committed. It is the
private, thoughofficial act of the executive magistrate, delivered to the
individual for whose b'eneilt it is intended, and not communicated officially to the court.
It is a constituent part of the judicial system, that the judge sees only with
judicial eyes, and knows nothing respecting any particular case of which
•e
his not'snformed judicially. A private deed, not communicaLed to hn,
whatever may be its character, whether a pardon orrelease, is totally unknown, and cannot be acted upon. The looseness which would be introduced into judicial proceedings would prove fatal to the great principles
of justice, if the judge might notice and act upon facts not brought regularly into the cause.- Such a proceeding, in ordinary cases, would ubvert the best established principles, and would overturn those rules which
have been settled by the wisdom of ages.
There is nothing peculiar in a pardon which ought to distinguish it in this
respect from other facts no legal principle known to the court will
sustain such a distinction. A pardon is a deed, to the validity of
winch delivery is essential, and delivery is not complete without acceptance. It may then be rejected by the person to whom it is tendered; and
if it be rejectd, we have discovered no power in a court to force it on
him.
Itmay be supposed that no being condemned to death would reject a pardon, but the rule must be the same in capital cases and in misdemeanours.
A pardon may be conditional, and the condition may be more ob.Liectionable than the punishment inflicted by the judgment.
The pardon may possibly apply to a different person or a different crime.
It may be absolute or conditional. It may be controverted by the prosecutor, and must be expounded by the court. These cucumstances

JANUARY TERM 1833.
(United States v. Wilson.]
combine to snow that this, like any other deed, ought to be brought
"judicially before the court, by plea, motion or otherwide."
The reason why a court must, ex officio, take notice of a pardon by act of
parliament, is, that it is considered as a public law, having the same efect
on the case as if the general law punishing the offence had been repealed
or annulled.

THIS case came before the court on a certificate of division of
opimon from the judges of the circuit court of the United
States for the eastern district of Pennsylvania.
At the April- sessions 1830 of that court, six indictments
were presented to and found by the grand jury against James
Porter and George Wilson one for obstructing the mail of
the United States from Philadelphia to Kimberton on the 26th
day of November 1829, one for obstructing the -mail from
Philadelphia to Reading on the 6th day of December 1829,
one for the robbery of the Kimberton mail, and putting the
life of the carrier in jeopardy, on the same day in November
1829, one for robbery of the Reading mail, and putting the
life of the carrier in jeopardy, on the same 6th day of December 1829, one for robbery of the Kimberton mail also on the
26th of November 1829; and one for robbery of the Reading mail
also on the 6th of December 1829- At the same sessions two
other indictments were presented to the grand jury against the
same defendants, in which they were severally charged with
robbery of the Reading and Kimberton mail, and wounding
the carrier, which were returned to the court as "true bills,
except as to wounding the carrier." Upon the indictment for
robbery of the Khnberton mail, and.putting -the life of the carrier in jeopardy, and also in the two last mentioned indictments,
a nolle prosequi was afterwards entered by the district attorney
of the United States. On the 26th day of April 1830. the defendaaits James Porter and George Wilson pleaded not guilty
to the several bills upon which they were arraigned and on
the 1st of May a verdict of guilty was rendered against them
upon the indictment for robbery of the Reading mail, and putting the life of the carrier in jeopardy.
The circuit court, on the 27th of May 1830, sentenced the
defendants to suffer death on the 2d July following; and James
Porter was executed in pursuance of this sentence.
Upon the 27th of May 1830 George Wilson withdrew the

SUPREME COURT
[United States v. Wilson.)

pleas of not guilty in all the indictments against him, except
those on which a.nolle prosequi was afterwards entered, and
.pleaded guilty to the same.
The indictment for robbery of the Reading mail, and.putting the life of the driver in jeopardy, upon which James Porter and George Wilson were tried and convicted, was in.the
following terms
"Eastern distnct of Pennsylvania, to-wit:
"The grand inquest of the United States of America inquiring for the eastern district of Pennsylvania, upon their oaths
and affirmations, respectively do present, that James Porter,
otherwise called James May, late of the eastern district aforesaid, yeoman, and George Wilson, late of the eastern district
aforesaid, yeoman, on the 6th day of December in the year of
our Lord one thousand eight hundred and twenty-nine, at the
eastern district aforesaid, and within the jurisdiction of this
court, with force and arms in and upon one Samuel M'Crea,
in the. peace of God and of the United States of America then
and there being, and then and there being a carrier of the mail
of the United States, and then and there entrusted therewith,
and then and there proceeding with the said mail from the
city of Philadelphia to the borough of Reading, feloniously
did make an assault, and hun the said Samuel M'Crea in
bodily fear and danger then and there feloniously did put, and
the said mail of the United States from hun the said Samuel
M'Crea then and there, feloni6usly, violently and against his
will, did steal, take and carry away, contrary to the form of
the act of congress in such case made and provided, and
,against the peace and dignity of the United States of America.
"And the inquest aforesaid, upon their oaths and affirmations aforesaid, do further present, that the said James Porter,
otherwise called James May, and the said George Wilson, afterwards, to wit, on the same -day and year aforesaid, at the
eastern district aforesaid and within the jurisdiction of this
court, with force and arms in and upon the said Samuel
M'Crea, then and there being a carier of the mail of the United States, and then and there entrusted therewith, feloniously
did make an assault, and him the said carrier of the said mail
then and there feloniously, violently, and against ls will, did
rob, contrary to the form of the act of congress in such case

JANUARY TERM 1833:
(United States v. Wilson.]

made and provided, and against the peace and dignity of the
United States of America."
On the 14th of June 1830 the president of the United States
granted the following pardon to George Wilson
"Andrew Jackson, president of the United States. to all
who shall see these presents, greeting
"Whereas a certain George Wilson has been convicted before the circuit court of the Umted States for the eastern district of Pennsylvania, of the crime of robbing the mail of the
United States, and has been sentenced by the said court to
suffer the penalty of death on the 2d day of July next, and
whereas the said George Wilson has been recommended as a
fit subject for the exercise of executive clemency-by. a numerous and respectable body of.petitioners, praying for him a remission of the sentence of death, inasmuch as, in such a case,
sentence of imprisonment for twenty years may yet be pronounced against him on the indictments to- whch he has
pleaded guilty in the circuit court of the United States for the
said district, and a still more severe imprisonment may.be
awarded him for the same acts, in the criminal courts of Pennsylvama
"Now therefore, I, Andrew Jackson, president of the United
States of America, in consideration of the premises, divers
other good and sufficient reasons me thereunto moving, have
pardoned, and do hereby pardon the said George Wilson the
crime for which he has been sentenced to suffer death, remitting the penalty aforesaid, with this express stipulation, tht
this pardon shall not extend to any judgment which maybe
had or obtained against him, in any other case or cases iiow
pending before said court for other offentes wherewith he may
stand charged.
"[L. S.] In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my
hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed to
these presents. Given at the city of Washington this 14th
day of June, A.D. 1830, and of the independence of the United States tie fifty-fourth.
"ANDREW JACKSON.

"By the President,
"M. VAN BUREN, ,Scrctaryo state."
Vol,. VII.-U

SUPREME COURT
[United States v. Wilson.]

The record, as certified from the circuit court, proceeds-to
state
."MAd now to wit, this 20th day of-October, A.D. 1830, the
district attorney of the United States- moves the court for sentence upon the defendant, George Wilson but the court suggesting the propriety of inquiring as to the effect of a certain
pardon, understood to have been granted by the president of
the United States to the defendant since the conviction on this
indictment, although alleged to r'elate to a conviction on another indictment, the case postponed till the 21st day of

October.1830.
"Ana noW, to wit this 21st day of October 1830, the counsel for the defendant, George Wilson, appear before the-court,
and on behalf of the said defendant, waive and decline any
advantage or protection which might be supposed to arise from
the pardon referred to and thereupon the following questions
or points were argued oy the district attorney of the United
States, upon which the opinions of the judges of the said circuit court were opposed
"1. That the pardon referred to (prour the same) is expressly restricted to the sentence of death passed upon the
defendant under another conviction, and as expressly reserves
from its operation the conviction. now before the court.
"2. That the prisoner can, under this conviction, derive no
advantage from the pardon, without bringing the same judicially before the court by plea, motion or otherwise.
"And now, to wit, this 21st day of October. 1830, the defendant, George Wilson, being in person before the court, was
asked by the court whether he had any thing to say why sentence should not be pronoutced for the crime whereof he
stands convicted in tins particular case, and whether he wished
-in any manner to avail himself of the pardon referred to and
the said defendant answered in person, that he had nothing to
say, and that he did not wish in any manner to avail himself,
in order to avoid sentence in this particular case, of the pardon
referred to.
"And' the said judges being so opposed m opinion upon the
,points or questions above stated, the same were then and there,
at the request of the district attorney of the United States,

JANUARY TERM 1833
[United Statev v. W'son.]

slated under-the direction of the judges, and ordered by the
court to be certified under the seal of the court to the supreme
court, at their next session thereafter, to be finally decided by
the said supreme court. And the court being further of opinion that other proceedings could not be had in the said case
without prejudice to its merits, did order the same to be continued over to the next sessions of the court.
"HENRY BALDWIN.
"JOS. HOPKINSON."

The case was argued for the United States, by Mr Taney,
attorney-general, no -counsel appeared for the defendant,
George Wilson.
The. attorney-general contended, that the other indictments
against the defendant, and the proceedings on them, formed
no part of the proceedings or evidence in this case; and they
are not offered in evidence either by the United States or
George Wilson. This court could judicially notice, perhaps,
that such indictments were upon the records of the -circuit
court. But whether It was the same Wilson, or the act constituting the offence the same act; and whether it was pardoned, were matters of fact, and not matters of law. Neither
one of these facts was pleaded by either of the parties, nor in
any form alleged, nor any evidence offered to establish either
of.them.
The question is, can the court, without the allegation of
either party, and without evidence" offered, decide the facts,
that he is the same person; that the act pardoned is the same
with the one now charged, and that lie has been parooned for
that act?
This is not a statute pardon. The pardoning power-in the
constitution is the executive power.
Waiving for the present the identity of the person and the
act, and conceding that the pardon would discharge him, it is
insisted:
1. That the. court cannot give the prisoner the benefit of the
pardon, unless he claims the benefit of it, and relies on it by
plea or motion. The form in which he may ask it is not ma-

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v.Wilson.]

terial to'this inquiry; but the claim must be made in some
shape by him. -Itis a grant to im, it is his property; and he
may accept it or not as he pleases.
.The ancient doctrine was,, that his plea of not guilty waived
it, ind that he could not afterwards rely on it: that a general
plealof not guilty, was eqmvalent to a refusal to accept it.
This doctrine is not meant to be contended for. It is admitted that he may avail himself of it at any time by plea,
before or after verdict or confession. Bat it is insisted that
unless he pleads it, or in some way claims its. benefit, thereby
denoting his acceptance -fthe proffered grace, the court cannot.
notice it, nor allow it to prevent them from passing sentence.
The whole current of authority establishes this principle. 2
Hawk. ch. 37, sect. 59, 64, 65; 4 B1. Com. 402; Aich. Plead.
and Ev. 55; 5 Bac. Abr. 292, 293, tit. Pard. E., Comyn'a Dig.,
13 Petersd: Abr. 82, Kelynge,'24, Radcliffe's case, Fost. 40;
1 Wils&150; King v. Haines, 1 Wils. 214, Jenk. Cent. p. 12,
case 62.
The necessity of his pleading it, or claunming it in some other
manner, grows out of the nature of the grant. He must accept itWe must not look at a pardon as if confined to capital cases.
It exists in cases of -misdemeanours also; and the same rule
applies to both, and the same effet is produced in both.
A pardon may be granted on a condition precedent or subsequent, and the party remains liable to the punishment if the
condition is not performed. 2 Hawk. ch.'97, sec. 45; 3 Thorn.
C6. Lit. 569, 615, note (m),and the authorities; Patrick Maddan's case, 1 Leach's Cas. 220, 263, The People v. James, 2
Cames's Rep. 57, Radcliffe'p case, Fost. Cr. Law, 41.
Suppose a paidon granted on conditions, which the pnsoner
does not choose to acceptl Suppose the condition is eoile, and
he thinks the sentehce a lighter punishment?- Suppose he
thinks it his- interest to undergo the punishment, in order to
make his peace-with the -public for an offence committed in
suddert temptation?
A prisoner might be placed in circumstances, when he would
feel it to be' his, interest to suffer imprisonment or pay a fine,
-as the evidence of .hus conlrition. Might he not, under such

JANUARY TERM "1833.
[United States v. Wilson.]

circumstances, refuse to -accept a general and unconditional
pardon?
It is hardly necessary to speculate on the case of . man
refusing to accept a pardon in a capital case. It is an event
not even possible, where the party was in his sound mind. If
it should happen, without doubt there is a power in the executive to prevent the execution of the sentence.
But we are now discussing judicwd power, which, being governed by fixed laws and rules of proceeding, cannot exercise
a discretion beyond the limits which the law has prescribed.
They cannot look to cases which may possibly anse. There
is sufficient power in another branch of the government to prevent any evil from the pnnciple insisted on. The argument
is fortified by the clause introduced into the acts of amnestym
England. Radcliffe's case, Fost. 44, 45.
2. But suppose the prisoner is not bound to plead it. How
was it before the court in any other form! The attorney for
the United States did not call on the court to allow it. No
evidence was offered of the identity of Wilson, or of the act
pardoned. Radcliffe's case, Fost. Cr. Law, 43. The identity
had been found hy a jury. How did the court obtain a knowledge of the fact?
A man who has been acquitted, cannot lawfully be punished
in another proceeding. So of a former conviction. Arch.
Plead. and'Ev. 50 to 54.
Suppose another indictment for the same offence, and the
court saw the man, and heard the evidence,, and knew it to be
the same, could they direct a verdict of not guiltyl The defence must be pleaded with the proper avennents.
If the party by an oversight omitted it, no doubt the court
would give him an opporttniity of correcting the error. But if
he refused to plead it, and the jury found him guilty, or he
pleadid'guilty, could the court discharge him? If they could
not, how can they do it with a pardon, when the party refuses
to avail himself of the dfence. Yet a former a9quittal absolves
him from all the consequences of crime as perfictly as a pardon. It declares him innocent. The pardon- restores. him to
innocence in the eye of the 14w.

SUPREME COGRT.
[United"States v. Wilson.]

A pardon may release a part of the penalty inflicted by law
and reserve the other. A pardon may be granted on conditioni
as already shown. May it not then annex any condition? a
condition that a party shall undergo a part of the punishment?
It may be on condition that he will leave the United States.
Why may it not be that he will pay the fine, where the
punishment ig fine and imprisonment? Why may it not be
on condition-that he undergoes the imprisonment? Why not
that he undergoes part of the imprisonmentl 3 Johns. Cas.
333,.United States v. Lukens, Coxe's Digest, title Pardon, 510.
Mr Chief Julstice, MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court.
In this case the grand jury had found an indictment against
the prisoner for robbing .themail, to which he had pleaded not
guilty. AfterwardS, he withdrew this plea, and pleaded guilty.
On a motion by the district attorney, at a subsequent day, for
judgment, the court suggested the propriety of .mquiring pLs to
the effect of a certain pardon, understood to have been granted
by the president of the United States to the defendant, since
the conviction on this indictment, alleged to relate to a conviction on another indictment, and that the motion was adjourned
till the~next day. On the ;acceeding day the counsel for the
prisoner appeared in court, and on his behalf waived and declined any advantage or protection winch might be supposed
to arise from the pardon referred to; and thereupon the following points were made by the district attorney1. That the pardon referred to is expressly restricted to the
sentence of death passed upon the defendant under another
conviction, and as expressly reserves from its operation the
conviction now before the. court.
2. That the prisoner can, under this conviction, derive no
advantage from the pardon without biingmg tho same judicially before the coulrt.
The prisoner being. asked by the court whether he had any
thing to say why sentence should not be pronounced for the
coime whereof he stood convicted in this particular case, and
whether he wished in any manner to avail himself of the par-

JANUARY TERM 1833.
[United States v. Wilson.]

don referred to, answered that he had *nothingto say, and that
he-did not wish in any manner to avail himself; in order to
avoid the sentence in this particular case, of the pardon referred to.
The judges were thereupon divided in opinion on both points
made by the district attorney, and ordered themi to be certified
-to this court.
A certiorari was afterwards awarded to bring up the record
of the case in which judgment of death had been pronounced
against the prisoner. The indictment charges a robbery of
the mail, and putting the life of the driver in jeopardy. The
robbery charged in each indictment is on the same day, at the
same place and on the same carrier.
We do not think that this record is admissible, since no direct reference is- made to it in the points adjourned by the.
circuit court and without its aid we cannot readily comprehend the questions submitted to us.
If this difficulty be removed, another is presented by the
terms m which the first point is. stated on the record. The
attorney argued, first, that the pardon referred to is expressly
restncted to the sentence of death passed upon the defendant
under another convictior, and- as expressly reserves from its
operation the conviction now before the court. Upon this
point the judges were opposed in opinion. Whether they were
opposed on the fact, or on the inference drawn from it by the
attorney; and what that inference was; the record does not ex-plicitlyinform us. If the question on which the judges doubted
was, whether such a pardon ought to restrain the court from
pronouncing judgment in the case before them, which was expressly excluded from it', the first inquiry is. whether the
robbery charged in the one indictment is the zame with that
charged in the other. This is neither expressly affirmed nor
denied. If the convictions be for different robberies, no question of law can anse on the effect which the pardon of the one
may have on the proceedings for the others.
If the statement on the record be sufficient to inform.this
court, judicially, that the robberies are the same, we are not
told on what point of law the judges were divided. The only
inference we can draw from the statement is, that it was

SUPREME COURT.
[Unite& States v. Wilson.]

doubted whether the terms of the pardon could restrain the
court from pronouncing the judgment of law on the conviction
before them. The prisoner was convicted of robbing the mail,
aid putting the life of the carrier in jeopardy, for which the
punishment ii death. He had also been convicted. on an indictment for the same robbery, as we now suppose, without
putting life m jeopardy, for which the punishment is fine and
imprisonment; and the question supposed to be submitted is,
whether a pardon of the greater offence, excluding the less,
necessarily comprehends the less, against its own express terms.
We should feel not much difficulty on this statement of the
questign, but it is unnecessary to discuss or decide it
Whether the pardon reached the less offence or not, the first
indictment comprehended both the robbery and the putting
life in jeopardy, and the conviction and judgment pronounced
upon it extended to both. After the judgment no subsequent
prosecution could be maintained for the same offence, or for
any part of it, provided the former conviction was pleaded.
Whether it could avail without being pleaded, or m any manner relied on by the prisoner, is substantially the same question
with that presented in the second point, which is, "that the
prisoner can, under this conviction, derive no advantage from
the pardon, without bringing the same judicially before the

court by plea, motion or othetse.!'
The constitution gives to thd president,-it general terms,
"the power to grant reprieves and pardons for offences against
the United States."
As this power had been exercised from time immemorial by
'the executive of that nation whose language is our language,
and to whose judicial institutions ours bear a close resemblance;
we adopt their principles respecting the operation and effect of
a pardon, and look into their books for the rules prescribing the
manner m which it is to be used by the person who would
avail himself of it.
A pardon is an act of grace, proceeding from the power entrusted with the execution of the laws, which exempts the in.
dividual, on whom it is bestowed, from the punishment the
law inflicts for . crime he has committed. It is the private,
though official act of the executive magistrate, delivered to the

JANUARY TERM 1633.
[United States Y. Wilson.]

individual for whose benefit it is intended, and not commumcated officially to the court. It is a constituent part of the
judicial system, that the judge sees only with judicial iyes,
and knows nothing respecting any particular case, of which he
is not informed judicially. A private deed, not communicated
to him, whatever may be its character, whether a pardon or
release, is totally unknown and cannot be acted -on. The
looseness which would be introduced into judicial proceedings,
would prove fatal to the great principles of justice, if the judge
mrght notice and act upon facts not brought regularlyinto the
cause. Such a proceeding, in ordinary cases, would subvert
the best established principles, and overturn those rules winch
have been settled by the wisdom of ages.
Is there any thing peculiar-in a pardon which ought to distingush it in this respect- from other factsI
We know of no legal principle which will sustain such a
distinction.
A pardon is a deed, to the validity of which delivery is essential, and delivery is not complete without acceptance. It
may then be rejected by the person to whom it -is tendered,
and if it be rejected, we have discovered no power in a court to
force it on hum.
It may be supposed that no being condemned to aeath would
reject a pardon, but the rule must be the same in capital cases
and in misdemeanours. A pardon may be conditional, and
th condition may be more objectionable than the punishment
inflicted by the judgment.
The pardon may possibly apply to a diffdrent person or a
different crime. It may be absolute or conditibnal. It may
be controverted by the prosecutor, and must be expounded by
the court. These circumstances combine to show that tis
like any other deed, ought to be brought "judicially before-the
court by plea, motion or otherwise."
The decisions on this point conform to these principles.
Hawkms _b. 2. ch. 37, sect. 59, says, " but it is certain that-a
man may waive the benefit of a pardon under the great seal,
as where one who hath such a pardon doth not' plead it, but
takes the general issue, after which he shall not resort. to the
VOL. VIL-V

SUPREME COURT
[United States v. Wilson.]

pardon." In sect. 67, he says, "an exception is made of a pardon -after plea."
Notwithstanding this general assertion, a court would undoubtedly at this day permit a pardon to be used after the
general issue. Still, where the benefit is to be obtained through
the agency of the court, it must be brought regularly to the
notice of that tribunal
Hawkins says, sect. 64, "it will be error to allow a man the
benefit of such a pardon unless it be pleaded." In sect. 65,
he says, "he who pleas such A pardon must produce it sub
fide agi/Ii, though it be a plea in bar, because it is presumed
to be in his custoay, and the property of it belongs to him.
Comyn,'in his Digest, tit. Pardon, letter H, says, "if a man
has a charter of pardon from the king, he ought to plead it in
bar of the indictment, and if he pleads not guilty he waives
his pardon." The same law is laid down im Bacon's Abridgement, title Pardon, and is confirmed by the cases these authors
quote.
We have met with only one case which might seem to questionit. Jenkins, page 169, case 62, says, "if the king pardons
a felon, and it is shown to the court, and yet the felon pleAds
guilty, and waives the pardon, he shall not be hanged, for it
is the king's will that he shall not, and the king has an interest in the life of his subject, The books to the contrary are
to be understood where the charter of pardon is not shown to
the court."
This vague dictum supposes the pardon to be shown to the
court. The waiver spoken of is probably that implied waiver
which arises from pleading the general issue and the case
may be considered as determining nothing more than that the
prisoner may avail himself of the pardon by showing it to the
court, even after waiving it by pleading the general issue. If
this be, and it most probably is the fair and sound construction
of this case, it is reconciled with all the other decisions, so far
as respects the present inquiry.
Blackstone, in his 4th vol. p. 337, says, "a pardon may be
pleaded m bar." In p. 376, he says, "it may also be pleaded
in arrest.of judgment." In p.-401, he says, "a pardon by act

JANUARY TERM 1883.
[United States v. Wilson.]

of parliament is more beneficial than by the king's charter,
for a man is not bound to plead it, but the court must, ex ofi-w,
take notice of it, neither can he lose the benefit of it by his
own laches or negligence, as he may of the king's charter of
pardon. The king's charter of pardon must be specially pleaded; and that at a proper time, for if a man is indicted and has
a pardon in his pocket, and. afterwards puts himself upon his
trial by pleading the general issue, he has waived the benefit
of such pardon. But if a man avails lmself thereof, as by
course of law he may, a pardon may.either be pleaded on arraignment, or in arrest of judgment, or, in the present stage of
proceedings,.m bar of execution."
The reason why a court must ex officio take notice of a
pardon by act of parliament, is that it is considered as a public
law; having the same effect on the case as if the general law
punishing the offence had been repealed or annulled.
This court is of, opinion that the' pardon in' the proceedings
mentioned, not having been brought judicially before the
court by plea, motion or otherwise, cannot be noticed by the

judges.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the circuit court of the United States" for the third
circuit and-eastern district of Pennsylvania, and on the question
on-which the judges of that court were divided in opinion, and
was argued by the attorney-general on the part of the United
States: on consideration whereof, tis court is of opinion that
the pardon alluded to in the proceedings, not having been
brought judicially before the court by plea, motion or otherwise, ought not to be noticed by the judges, or in any manner
to affect the judgment of the law. All which is directed and
adjudged to be certified to the judges of the-said circuit court
Qf the United States for the eastern district of Pennsylvania.

