JANUARY TERM 1835.

ROBERT PIATT, APPELLANT V CHARLES VATTIER AND OTHERS,
AND

THE

BANK OF THE UNITED STATES.

A bill was filed in the circuit court of Ohio, for a conveyance ofthe legal title
to certain real estate in-the city of Cincinnati, and the statute oflimitations
of Ohio was relied on by the defendants. The complainant claimed the benefit
of an exception in the statute, of non residence and absence from the state
and evidence was given, tending to show that the person under whom he
made his claim in equity was within the exception. The non residence
and absence were not charged in the bill, and of course were not denied or
put in issue in the answer. Held, that the court can taice no notice of the

proofs; for the proofs, to be admissible, must be founded upon some allegations in the bill and answer. If the merits of the case were not otherwise
clear, the court might remand the cause for the purpose of amending the

pleadings.
There was in this case a clear adverse possession of thirty years, without the
acknowledgement of any equity or trust estate in any one, and no circumstances were stated in the bill, or shown in evidence, which overcame the
decisive influence of such an adverse possession. The established doctrine
of the law of courts of equity; from its being a rule adopted by those courts,
independent of any legislative limitations, is, that it will not entertain stale
demands.

APPEAL from the circuit court of the United States for the
district of Ohio.
On the 6th of December 1827, the appellant, a citizen and
resident of the state of Kentucky, filed a bill in the circuit court
of the United States for the district of Ohio, setting forth, -that
in the year 1789, when the city of Cincinnati was first laid
out, the country being then a wilderness, and the town plat a
forest of timber, certain lots in the said city were allotted as
donations to those who should make certain Improvements
within given periods of time, and the evidence of ownership,
consisting of the certificate of the proprietors, was transferred
from one person to another by delivery as evidence of title.
That the lot No. 1, on the said plat, now occupied as the Cincinnati Hotel, was allotted to one Samuel Blackburn, who,
before the conditions of the donation were fulfilled, transferred
his right to one James Campbell, who soon thereafter transferred it to one John Bartle, who, in the summer of the year
1790, took possession of the same, and completed the improve-

406

SUPREME COURT
[Piatt v. Vattier and others.]

ments required by the terms of the donation. That said Bartle
continued to occupy said lot, and the building thereon erected
by himself first, and subsequently by his tenants Elliot and
Williams, and by his tenant Abijah Hunt, for several years,
having the certificate of the proprietors of the town as his evidence of title, and the said Bartle having become embarrassed
in his circumstances, mortgaged the said lot to one Robert
Barr, of Lexington, Kentucky, of whom, and his heirs, if
deceased, nothing was known, for the sum of about 700
dollars, to the payment of which the rents reserved to said Bartle, from the tenants in possession, were to be, and a large
amount was in fact appropriated and paid. That the said Bartle having been upset in crossing the Ohio river, and thrown
into the same, lost his certificate for said lot, and this fact
coming to the knowledge of one Charles Vattier, a citizen
and resident of the state of Ohio, who, it is prayed, may be
made defendant to the bill, and the said Bartle being then in
very reduced circumstances, the said Vattier contriving and
intending to defraud the said Bartle of the said lot, then
become considerably valuable, went to Lexington and purchased of said Barr the mortgage given on said lot by said
Bartle, which he took up, and having obtained from Abijah
Hunt, then the tenant of said Bartle, .the possession of the said
lot in the absence of said Bartle from the country, the said
Vattier obtained from John Cleves Symmes, in whom the legal
title was, a conveyance for said lot. That said Vattier having
thus fraunulently obtained the possession of and title to said
lot, afterwards sold the same to one John Smith, who had full
notice and knowledgeof the original and continued claim of said
Bartle to the same, which said Smith is since deceased, and his
heirs, if any are alive, are unknown to the complainant, and the
said Smith, after occupying the same for a time, sold the same
to one John H. Piatt, who had full notice and knowledge of
Bartle's claim thereto, said John H. Piatt is since deceased,
leaving Benjamin M. Piatt and Philip Grandon and Hannah
C. his wife, citizens and residents of the state of Ohio, his
heirs at law, with others not citizens of this state, and who
cannot therefore be made defendants. And the said John H.
Piatt, in his lifetime, mortgaged the same to the President, Directors and Company of the Bank of the United States, under

JANUARY TERM 1835.

407

[Piatt v. Vattior and others.]

which mortgage the said President, Directors and Company of
the Bank of the United States have obtained possession and
complete title, with full notice and knowledge of the claim of
said Bartle. And the said President, Directors and Company
of the Bank of the United States have sold the same to one
John Watson, a citizen and resident of this state, who, it is
prayed, may be made defendants to this bill, the said Watson
being in the actual possession of said premises, but has not paid
the purchase money or obtained a deed therefor. The bill
further shows that the said Bartle asserted to the said Yattier,
to the said Smith, and to the said Piatt, his right to said premises
at various and different times, but from poverty was unable to
attempt enforcing the same in acourt of equity or elsewhere, and
the complainant has recently purchased from said Bartle his nght
to said lot, and obtained a conveyance from him for the same.
Thebill prays, that the said President, Directors and Companyof
the Bank of the'United States may be decreed to deliver possession of said premises to the complainant, and account for
and pay the rents and profits thereof to him, and execute a
quiet claim deed therefor to him, or in case the said President,
Directors and Company of the Bank of the United States be
protected in the possession thereof, that Charles Vattier be
decreed to account for and pay to the complainant the value
thereof upon such pnnciples as shall be deemed just and equitable, and for other and further relief, &c.
The Bank of the United States fled an answer, denying any
knowledge of the facts alleged in the bill, as to the title of
Bartle to the property in question, and asserting a regular legal
title to the same in those under whom they hold the same.
They assert a possession of the property in Charles Vattier,
from 1797 up to July 1806, when the property was purchased
by John Smith, and was afterwards, in 1811, sold by the
sheriff by virtue of a fien facias, as the property of John Smith,
and bought by John H. Piatt, under whom, and whose heirs,
the property is held by conveyances, commencing in 1820, by
mortgage, by deed in fee simple from the heirs of John H.
Piatt in 1823, and by a release of the dower of the widow of
John H. Piatt at the same time, for which release the bank
paid to the said widow 11,000 dollars.
Upon this lot of ground John H. Piatt made extensive and

SUPREME COURT.
[Piatt v. Vattier and othfrs.]

costly improvements, and in particular erected the Cincinnati
Hotel.
The answer states that the bank, at the time of the purchase,
knew nothing of the claim of the complainant, or of Bartle,
and that they claim a complete title to the lot under John C.
Symmes, Charles Vattier, John Smith, and John H. Piatt, and
his heirs and representatives, and widow, as above stated, and
they allege that said Vattier took possession of said lot about
the year 1799, and that said Vattier and those claiming under
him have continued in the uninterrupted possession of said
premises ever since, being a period of more than twenty-eight
years.
The answer of Charles Vattier denies all the allegations in
the bill which assert his knowledge of the title, said to have
been held by Bartle to the property, and asserts a purchase of
the property claimed by Robert Piatt, from Robert Barr of
Lexington, Kentucky, and that a complete legal title to the
same had been made to him by John Cleves Syrmes, holding
the said legal title. That he came fairly into the possession
of this property, and at that time had not the least notice or
knowledge of the supposed equitable claim of the said Bartle
to the lot. He further states that, while he lived on said
lot, he frequently saw Bartle, who was often in the house on
the lot, that said Bartle never made known to him, or intimated to him, that he had any claim or title to the lot, that
while he was the owner of the lot, he made improvements
on the same, of which Bartle had knowledge. He does
not believe, or admit, that said Smith had any notice of the
several matters and things set forth in the bill at the time he
received a conveyance for said lot from this defendant, as before
stated, or that he knew or had heard any thing of the supposed
right or claim of said Bartle to said lot. He further states
that, ever since he took possession of said lot, in the year 1797,
there has been a continued possession of the same, under his
title thus acquired from said Symmes, by the successive owners, as set forth in the bill. He knows nothing of the inability
of said Bartle, on account of his poverty, to assert his title to
said lot, if he had one, nor does he know that the said Robert
Piatt has purchased from the said Bartle his right to said lot,
and obtained a conveyance from him for the same, and therefore he requires full proof of the same.

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Piatt v. Vattier and others.]

The complainant filed a general replication.
The depositions of a number of witnesses were taken and
filed in the case, and on the 19th of December 1831, the circuit court made a decree dismissing the bill, and stating that
the equity of the case was with the defendants, and that the
complainant was not entitled to the relief sought.
The complainant appealed to this court.
The case was- argued by Mr Ewing and Mr Bibb, for the
appellant, and by Mr Sergeant and Mr Webster, for the appellees.
The decision of the court having been given on the bar
which was interposed by time, to the right of the appellant to
recover, the arguments of counsel on the other points in the
case are omitted.
Upon the effect of the statutes of limitations of Ohio on the
claim of the appellant, and of time on the same, the counsel
for the appellant contended, that the length of time is no bar,
according to the facts and circumstances of this case.
The question s, whether the claim set up in the bill is
barred by the statute of limitations of Ohio.
In Aggas v. Pickerell, 3 Atk. 222, (26th of June 1745)
upon a bill for redemption of mortgaged premises, of which the
defendant had possession more than twenty years, the defendant demurred. The chancellor expressed his opinion unfavourably to the demurrer. He said, "how is it possible to give
greater allowance to length of time than the statute of limitation does l" "The plaintiff may, by way of reply or amending
his bill, make it appear he is within the saving of the statute;"
"or upon a plea he may prove himself to be within the exceptions."
In 3 Atk. 314, the same rule is observed, and redemption
decreed in behalf of a "prowling assignee, who admitted he
had the equity of redemption for a very inconsiderable sum."
The plaintiff was not barred by the statute of limitations, and,
although the chancellor was much disinclined towards the
assignee, he did decree in his favour, declaring, "yet even in
the case of an assignee of the equity of redemption, if the cirVOL. IX.-3.

SUPREME COURT.
[Piatt v. Vattier and others.I

cumstances would induce the court to decree redemption in
favour of the mortgagor, the assignee who stands in his place
will have the benefit of it."
In Higginson v. Mein, 4 Cranch 415 to 420, 2 Cond. Rep.
135, the debt was enforced against the mortgaged premises,
the presumption of payment from length of time being repelled
by circumstances. But after the elaborate argument and decision of this court, on a full investigation of the adjudged
cases in Elmendorff v Taylor, 10 Wheat. 168, 6 Cond. Rep.
47, it is unnecessary to labour the principle. It is said confidently, that, so far as the defendants below have relied upon
length of time, the question is, whether there are such laches
and non claim of the rightful owner of this equity, for such
a period as that he would have been barred by the statute of
limitations of Ohio, supposing the plaintiff and those from
,whom he claims had held the legal estate.
The provisions of the act of limitations of the state of Ohio,
of 1804, applicable to this case, are, the first section, which
limits the action of ejectment, &c., or other possessory action
'for lands, to twenty years, and the third section, which contains the usual savings in favour of infants, femes covert, persons insane, imprisoned, "1or beyond sea, at the time when such
actions may or shall have accrued;" and allows the period of
twenty years before limited, "after such disability shall have
been removed."
The sections of the act of 1810, are the second, which limits
the time for writs of ejectment, or other possessory actions for
lands, to twenty-one years, the third section, which contains
the like saving, as the act of 1804, for persons under disability
of infancy, "beyond sea," &c., and allows the like period of
twenty-one years "after such disability shall have been removed ;" and the sixth section, which repeals the act of limitations of 1804, and declares that this act (of 1810) shall take
effect on the 1st day of June 1810.
The third statute of limitations, passed 25th of February
"1824, to take effect from the 1st of June 1824, is "an act for the
limitation of actions." 22 Laws of Ohio 325.
Section first limits, "first, actions of ejectment,
or any other
action for recovery of the title or possession of lands, tenements,
or hereditaments," to twenty-one years; and then limits per-

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Piatt v. Vattier and others.]

sonal actions to various shorter periods. Section second provides that "if any person who shall be entitled to have or
commence any action of ejectment" "shall be within the age
of twenty-one years, insane, feme covert, imprisoned, or without the United States and territories thereof, at the time such
cause of action shall have accrued, and if any person who
shall be entitled to institute any other action limited by this
act, shall be within age as aforesaid, insane, feme covert, imprisoned, or without this commonwealth, at the time such cause
of action shall have accrued, every such person shall have a
right to commence any such action within the time hereinbefore limited, after such disability shall be removed."
The fourth and last act, passed 8th of February 1826, is
"supplementary to the act entitled, an act for the limitation
of actions." Session Acts 60.
This act recites, that doubts had arisen whether the act
passed 25th of February 1824, does not suspend the operation
of all former acts of limitation on causes of action, prior to the
25th of February 1824, not barred by former acts prior to that
day, therefore, this act revives the acts of 1804 and 1810, for
the purpose of limiting all actions the causes of which may
have accrued after the 4th day of January 1804, and before
the 25th of January 1810, or after the 25th of January 1810,
and before the 25th of February 1824, according to the provisions of those acts, "but for no other purpose whatever."
It will be evident from the repealing clause of 1824, which
took effect June 1st 1810, that as to causes of action theretofore accrued, but not then barred, the limitation ceased.
Upon such actions no statute of limitation had any bearing
until the passage of the act of 1826, and no bar can be worked
unless the supplementary act of 1826 can produce such effect.
It has been decided that "beyond sea" means out of the
state. Shelby v. Vuy, 11 Wheat. 861, 6 Cond. Rep. 855.
The evidence in this case shows that Bartle was absent from
the state, and thus was fully entitled to the benefit of the exception. Courts of equity will apply the same rules, as are
established by statutes of limitations, but they will not go beyond them. They will give the benefit of the exceptions in
the statute, when they adopt the rules of the statute. If it is
necessary to set out specially in the original bill the exception of

SUPREME COURT.
[Piatt v. Vattier and others.]

the statute, as protecting the appellant he should be allowed to
amend his bill, and the court will remand the case, to give him
an opportunity to supply the omission. But the complainant
may, on authority, amend, or may prove that he is within
the exception of the statute by evidence, 3 Atkyns 226 , and
this is the usual course,
Mr Sergeant and Mr Webster, for the appellees.
The Bank of the United States are protected against the
claim of the appellant, by length of time.
1. This protection is derived from length of time, independent of all statutes of limitations.
2. From the express provision of the statutes of Ohio.
The protection is obtained by the general rules of equity.
The bill has no dates; and if the case was stated as it is made
out by the evidence, it would be demurrable. It would be a
case of a mortgagee in possession for upwards of twenty years
without payment of interest. This, in England, would be a
demurrable bill. The possession of the mortgagee was for
thirty-five years. Cases cited upon this position Hughes v.
Edwards, 9 Wheat. 497, 5 Cond. Rep. 648, Willison v. Watkins, 3 Peters 43.
It is no answer to say that the person who claims title was
out of the state of Ohio. The exception is one by statute, but
the rule is one of courts of equity which has no exception.
2. The plaintiff's case is completely barred by the statutes
of Ohio, unless he can protect it by the exception in the statute
,in favour of a person "beyond seas."
In this case the appellant cannot avail himself of the exception in the statute. Vattier says, he went into possession in
1797, and this is a bar, unless the exception operates. The
appellant says he was out of the state. The question is one of
law, not of evidence.
The complainant having filed his bill in equity against a
person in possession upwards of thirty years, and the defendants asserting the protection of the general provisions of the
statutes of limitations, until the complainant shall establish
by proof, that the exception applies to him, he cannot avail
himself of it. The exception should have been put in issue.

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Piattv. Vattier and others.]

His protection by it should have been averred in his bill, or in
an amended bill. Cooper's Chancery PractL 6, 12, 329.
How was it to be understood by the bill, that the material
fact was to prove that Bartle was on the other side of the
Ohio 2
In a court of common law a party defendant pleads the
statute of limitations, the plaintiff replies an exception, and
he must raise a prima facie case by evidence. This will apply
in equity
There is no evidence that the general residence of Batle
was out of the state. The case appears on the proceedings,
that the defendants are to prove that Battle is not within the
exception, before the plaintiff has proved the general absence
of Bartle, to place him within the exception.
Mr Justice STony delivered the opinion of the Court
This is an appeal from the decree of the circuit court of the
district of Ohio, in a suit in equity, in which the present appellant was original plaintiff.
In June 1827, the plaintiff purchased of John Bartle the lot
of land in controversy, (which is asserted to be worth from
50,000 dollars to 70,000 dollars) for the consideration, as stated
in the deed of conveyance, of 3000 dollars; and the present
suit was brought in December of the same year. The bill
states, that when the city of Cincinnati was laid out, in 1789,
the country being then a wilderness, certain lots of the city
were allotted as donations to those who should make certain
improvements, and that the evidence of ownership of such
lots was a certificate of the proprietors, which was transferable
from one to another, by delivery That lot, number one, on
the plat of the city (the lot in controversy), was allotted to
Samuel Blackburn, who transferred his right to one James
Campbell, who transferred it to Bartle in 1790, and the latter
completed the improvements required by the terms of the donation. That Bartle continued to occupy the lot under this
certificateof title forseveralyears; when, becoming embarrassed,
he mortgaged the lot to one Robert Barr of Lexington, Kentucky, of whom, the bill states, and his heirs, if deceased, the
plaintiff knows nothing, for the sum of 700 dollars; for the
payment of which the rents received by Battle, from the ten-

SUPREME COURT.
[Paitt v. Vattier and others.]

ants in possession, were to be appropriated and paid. The bill
then alleges that Bartle afterwards lost the certificate in crossing the Ohio river, that Charles Yattier, one of the defendants,
fraudulently purchased the mortgage of Barr, and obtained
possession of the lot from the tenants, in the absence of Bartle
from the country, and acquired the legal title from John C.
Symmes, in whom it was vested. That Yattier afterwards sold
the same to one John Smith, who is since deceased, and his
heirs, if any are alive, are unknown to the plaintiff, and who
had full notice of Bartle's title. That Smith afterwards sold
the same to one John H. Piatt, since deceased, whose heirs are
made defendants, who also had notice of Bartle's tile, that
Piatt, in his life time, mortgaged the same to the Bank of the
United States, which has obtained possession and complete
title, with the like notice. The bill further charges that
Bartle asserted his right to the premises to Vattier, Smith and
Piatt at various times, but from poverty was unable to attempt
enforcing the same in a court of equity, or elsewhere, and that
the plaintiff has recently, in December 1827, purchased Bartle's right, and obtained a conveyance thereof. The bill then
states that the plaintiff had hoped that the bank would have
surrendered the possession, or in case it refused so to do, that
Yattier would have accounted with the plaintiff for the'value
thereof, taking an account of the mortgage money paid to
Barr, of the improvements, rents, profits, &c. But that the
bank has refused to surrender the possession, and Vattier has
refused to account. And it then prays a decree against the
bank to surrender the possession, and account for the rents and
profits, and to execute a quiet claim, or, if the bank is protected
in the possession, that Yattier shall be decreed to account, and
for general relief.
In their answers, Yattier and the Bank of the United States
-assert themselves to be bona fide purchasers, for a valuable
consideration, of an absolute title to the premises. without notice of Bartle's title, and they rely on the lapse of time also as
a defence. The bill, as to the heirs of J. 1-. Piatt, was taken
pro confesso, they not having appeared in the cause.
From the evidence in the cause it appears, that Yattier and
those claiming title under him, have been in possession of the
premises, claiming an absolute title thereto, adverse to the title

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Piatt v. Vattier and others.]

of Bartle, ever since the 20th of March 1797, the day of the
date of the conveyance from Symmes to Vattier. At the hearing, in the circuit court, the bill was dismissed , and the cause
now stands before this court upon an appeal taken from that
decision.
Various questions have been made at the argument before
us, as to the nature and character of Bartle's title, and, if he
had any valid title, whether the purchasers under Barr had notice of it. With these and some other questions, we do not
intermeddle, because in our view' of the cause, they are not
necessary to a correct decision of it.
The important question is, whether the plaintiff is barred by
the lapse of time for we do not understand, that the adverse
possession presents, under the laws of Ohio, any objection to
the transfer of Bartle's title to the plaintiff, if Bartle himself
could assert it in a court of equity This question has been
argued at the bar under a double aspect. first, upon the ground
of the statute of limitatioils of Ohio, and secondly, upon the
ground of an equitable bar, by mere lapse of time, independertly of that statute.
In regard to the statute of limitations, itis clear that the full
time has elapsed to give effect to that bar, upon the known
analogy adopted by courts of equity, in regard to trusts of real
estate, unless Bartle is within one of the exceptions of the
statute by his non residence and absence from the state. It is
said that there is complete proof in the cause, to establish such
non residence and absence. But the difficulty is, that the non
residence and absence are not charged in the bill, and of course
are not denied or put in issue by the answer; and unless they
are so put in issue, the court can take no notice of the proofs,
for the proofs to be admissible must be founded upon some allegations in the bill and answer. It has been supposed that a
different doctrine was held by lord Hardwicke in Aggas v
Pickerell, 3 Atk. 228, and Gregor v. Molesworth, 2 Yes. 109,
and by lord Thurlow in Deloraine v. Browne, 3 Bro. Ch. Rep.
632. But these cases did not proceed upon the ground, that
proofs were admissible to show the party, plaintiff, to-be within
the exception of the statute of limitations, when relied on by
way of plea or answer, and the exception was not stated in the
bill, or specially replied, but upon the ground that the omission

SUPREME COURT
[Piatt v. Vattier and others.]

in the bill to allege such exception could not be taken by way
of demurrer. And even this doctrine is contrary to former
decisions of the court ;(a) and it has since been explicitly overruled, and particularly in Beckford v. Close, 4 Yes. 476, Foster v. Hodgson, 19 Yes. 180, and Hovenden v. Lord Annesley,
2 Soh. and Lefr. 637, 638. And the doctrine is now clearly
established, that if the statute of limitations is relied on as a
bar, the plaintiff, if he would avoid it, by any exception in the
statute, must explicitly allege it in his bill, or specially reply
it, or, what is the modern practice, amend his bill, if it contains no suitable allegation to meet the bar. (b) In the present
case, if the merits were otherwise clear, the court might remand the cause for the purpose of amending the pleadings, and
supplying this defect. But, in truth, the answers, though they
rely generally on the lapse of time, do not specially rely on the
statute of limitations, as a bar and the case may, therefore,
well be decided upon the mere lapse of time, independently of
the statute.
And we are of opinion that the lapse of time is, upon the
pnnciples of a court of equity, a clear bar to the present suit,
independently of the statute. There has been a clear adverse
possession of thirty years without the acknowledgement of any
equity or trust estate in Bartle, and no circumstances are
stated in the bill, or shown in the evidence, which overcome the
decisive influence of such an adverse possess.ion. The established doctrine,--or as Lord Redesdale phrased it, in Hovenden
v. Annesley, 2 Sch. and Lef. 637, 638, "the law of courts of
equity'-from its being a rule adopted by those courts, independently of any positive legislative limitations, is, that it will not
entertain stale demands. Lord Camden, in Smith v Clay,
3 Brown's Ch. Rep. 640, note, stated it in a very pointed manner. "A court of equity," said he, "which is never active in
relief against conscience or public convenience, has always
refused its aid to stale demands, where the party has slept upon
his rights, or acquiesced for a great length of time. Nothing
(a) See South Sea Company v. Wymonasell, a P. Wins 143, 145, and Mr
Coxe's note; Cooper's Eq. Pi. 254,255, Smith v. Clay, 3 Bro. Ch. Rep. 640,
note.
(b) See Belt's note to the case of Deloraine v. Browne; 3 Bro. Ch. Rep.
640, n. 1, Miller v. M'Intire, 6 Peters 61, 64.

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Piatt v. Vattier and others.]

can call forth this court into activity but conscience, good faith
and reasonable diligence. Where these are wanting, the court
is passive and does nothing, laches and neglect are always
discountenanced, and therefore from the beginning of this
jurisdiction there was always a limitation of suit.in this court."
The same doctrine has been repeatedly recognized in the British courts, as will abundantly appear from the cases already
cited, as well as from the great case of Cholmondeley v. Clinton, 2 Jac. and Walk. 1.(a) It has also repeatedly received
the sanction of the American courts, and was largely discussed
in Kane v. Bloodgood, 7 Johns. Ch. Rep. 93, and Decouche
v. Saratiere, 3 Johns. Ch. Rep. 190. And it has been acted
on in the fullest manner by this court, especially in the case of
Prevost v. Gratz, 6 Wheat. 481, 5 Cond. Rep. 142, Hughes
v. Edwards, 9 Wheat. 489, 5 Cond.Rep. 648, and Wilison
v. Matthews, 3 Peters 44, and Miller v. M'Intire, 6 Peters
61, 66.
Without, therefore, going at large into the grounds upon
which this doctrine is established, though it admits of the most
ample vindication and support, we are all of opinion that the
lapse of time in the present case is a complete bar to the relief
sought, and that the decree of the circuit court dismissing the
bill, ought to be affirmed with costs.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the circuit court of the United States for the district
of Ohio, and was argued by counsel, on consideration whereof, it is decreed and ordered by this court, that the decree of
the said circuit court in this cause be, and the same is hereby
affirmed with costs.
(a) See also Beckford v. Wade, 17 Ves. 86; Barney v. Ridgard, 1 Cox.
Cas. 145, Blannerhassett v. Day, 1 Ball. and Beatt. Rep. 104, Hardy v.
Reeves, 4 Ves. 479; Harrington v. Smith, 1 Bro. Par., Cas. 95.

VOL. ix.-3 c

