483

JANUARY TERM 1835.

GEORGE HARRISON, THOMAS

H.

WHITE AND

OTHERS,

AP-

PELLANTS V HENRY NIXON, SURVIVING EXECUTOR OF MATTHIAS A

PDEN, DECEASED.

A bill was filed in the circuit court of the United States, for the district of
Pennsylvania, stating that one Matthias Aspden, a citizen of Pennsylvania,
made his will, dated in Philadelphia, on the 6th of December 1791, and bequeathed all his estate "to his heir at law," and died in April 1829; that
letters testamentary were taken out in Pennsylvania by the executor; that
large sums of money were received by him. and the bill prays for a decree
in favour of the complainant, who asserts himself to be the true and only
heir at law of the tesator, and that he is solely entitled to the bequest. The
answer of the executor states, that from information and belief, the testator
was born in Philadelphia, which was the residence of his parents about
1756; that he continued to reside there doing business as a merchant before
lie was twenty-one, and before the breaking out of the war with Great
Britain in 1776; being still a minor, he went to England, under a belief
that Great Britain would soon prevail in the contest; that he subsequently
came back to the United States, and invested large sums in government stocks. But, whether he afterwards went back to England as his
home, or only for the purpose of superintending his property; and whether
the testator did, in fact, change his doinicil, the executor (save and except
as appears by the facts) doth not know. He believes that the testator,
when in England, considered himself as an alien, and he died in King
Street, Holburn, London. That letters testamentary were taken out in
England, and the will was proved there, and proceedings were instituted in
England by a person claiming to be the heir at law. Various proceedings
took place in the circuit court of Pennsylvania. A reference was made to a
master to examine and state the heirs and next of kin of the testator, and a
report made by him, which was afterwards confirmed, and thereupon a final
decree was made in favour of John Aspden, ofLancashire, in England, one
of the claimants before-the master, as entitled to the personal estate of the
testator as " heir at law." The cause having come by appeal before this
court for argument, a question occurred, whether the frame of the bill, taken
by itself, or taken in connexion with the answer, contained sufficient matter
upon which the court could proceed to dispose of the merits of the cause,
and make a final decision.
By the Court. The bill contains no averment of the actual domicil of the testator at the time of the making of his will, or at the time of his death, or at
any intermediate period nor does the answer contain any averments of
domicil which supply these defects in the bill, even if it could so do.
but in point of law it could not.
Every bill must contain in itself sufficient matter of fact, per so, to maintain
the case of the plaintiff. The proofs must be according to the allegations
of the parties, and if the proofs go to matters not within the allegations, the
court cannot judicially act upon them as a ground for decision, for the
pleadings do not put them in contestation.

SUPREME COURT.

o

[Harrison and others v. Nixon.]
This is the case of a will, and so far as the matter of the bill is concerned, is
exclusively confined to personalty bequeathed by that will. And the court
are called upon to give a construction to the terms of the will, and in an
especial manner to ascertain who is meant by the words" heirs at law," in
the leading bequest in the will. The language of wills is not of universal
interpretation, having the same import in all countries and under all circumstances. They are supposed to speak the sense of the testator according to
the received laws and usages of the country where he is domiciled, by a sort
of tacit reference to them; unless there is something in the language which
repels or controls such a conclusion. In regard to personalty, in an especial
manner; the law of the place of the testator's domicil governs the distribution thereof; unless it is manifest that the testator had the laws of some other
country in view.
No one can doubt if a testator, born, and domiciled in England during his life,
by his will gives his personal estate to his heir at law, that the descriptio
personte would have reference to and be governed by the import of the
terms, in the sense of the laws of England. The import of them might be
very different if the testator were born and domiciled in France, in Louisiana, Pennsylvania or Massachusetts.
A will of personalty speaks according to the testator's domicil, when there
are no other circumstances to contract the application. To raise the question
what the testator meant, it must first be ascertained where was his domicil,
and whether he had reference to the laws of that place, or to the laws of a
foreign country.
The bill in this case should allege the material facts upon which the plaintiff's
title depends, and the final judgment of the court must be given, so as to
put them in contestation in a proper and regular manner - and the court
cannot dispose of this cause without ascertaining where the testator's domicil
was, at the time of his making his will and at the time of his death, and
there ought to be suitable averments in the bill to put those matters in issue.
The case ought be remanded to the circuit court for the purpose of having
suitable amendments made, in reference to the domicil of the testator; and
averments made of his domicil at the time of making the will, and at the
time of his death, and at the intermediate period if any change took place.
Upon motions made to the court, and from proceedings in the circuit court,
laid before the court, it appeared that there are certain claimants of the
bequest, asserting themselves to be "heirs at law," whose claims were not
adjudicated upon ii that court, on account of their having been presented
at too late a period. By the Court. As 'the cause is to go back again for
further proceedings, and must be opened there for new allegations and proofs,
the claimants will have a full opportunity of presenting and proving their
claims; and they ought to be let into the cause for that purpose.
No persons but those appearing to be parties on the record, can be permitted
to be heard on an appeal or writ of error.

APPEAL from the circuit court of the United States for the
eastern district of Pennsylvania.
Matthas Aspden, on the 6th day of December 1791, made
his will, with the codicils annexed thereto, as follows

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Harrison and others v. Nixon.

"These are to certify, that I do hereby annul and revoke all
my former wills, giving and bequeathing my estate, real and
personal, to my heir-at-law, first paying all my just debts and
funeral expenses, and the following legacies, first, to each of
the children of my half brother, Benjamin Hartley deceased,
that may be alive at my death, the sum of 100 pounds to
each Pennsylvania currency, and to my half sister Bersheba
Zane, wife of Elnathan Zane, the sum of 400 pounds Pennsylvania currency, both the above living or did live ator near
Haddonfield, and to my half brother Roger Hartley, living at
at present in Lancaster county, the sum of 300 pounds of the
like currency Witness my hand, this 6th day of December
1791, Philadelphie.
MATTHIAS ASPDEN.

"Lest any question should arise about the legitimacy of my
birth. It is my will, that my estate real and personal, shouldgo to the party who would be my lawful heir, in case there
might arise any doubts on that head. It is firmly believed by,
from the best information, that my birth was after marriage.
"Philedelphie, December 6th 1791.
"I do further give 100 pounds Pennsylvania currency, to
each of the children of my deceased half sister Ann Henchman,
that may be living at my death.
"December 6th 1791.
"Note, my property on England is as follows 12,500 pounds
in the four per cent stock, 3000 pounds in the five per cent
stock, 1800 pounds in the three per cent stock."
Indorsement. "The last of will of Matthias Aspden. I
do hereby appoint my friends Mr George Roberts and Mr Abraham Lidden, with the president of the old bank at the time
being, to be my executors to this my last will.
" MATTHIAs ASPDEN.

'

At April sessions 1821, of the circuit court of the eastern district of Pennsylvania, the following bill was filed
"Samuel Packer, a citizen of the state of New Jersey v
Henry Nixon, esquire, a citizen of the state of Pennsylvania,
executor of the last will and testament of Matthias Aspden,
esquire, late a citizen of the same state. In equity
"To the honourable the judges of -the circuit court of the

SUPREME COURT
[Harrison and others v. Nixon.]

United States of the third circuit, in and for the eastern district
of Pennsylvania.
"Humbly complaining, showeth unto your honours, your
orator, Samuel Packer, a citizen of the state of New Jersey,
that on the 6th day of December, in the year of our Lord 1791,
one Matthias Aspden, esquire, a citizen of the state of Pennsylvania, made and executed his last will and testament, bearing
date the same day and year, wherein and whereby he gave
and bequeathed all his estate, real and personal, to his heir at
law, and of the said will appointed his friends, George Roberts, Abraham Lidden, and the president of the old bank at the
time being, executors, as by the said will, a true copy whereof
is to this bill annexed, and which your orator prays may be
taken as part thereof, will more fully appear, after which, to
wit, on the
day of August, in the year of our Lord 1824,
the said Matthias Aspden departed this life, not having altered,
cancelled or revoked his said will, and the said George Roberts
and Abraham Lidden being then deceased, and Henry Nixon,
esquire, a citizen of the state of Pennsylvania, being then
president of the Bank of North America, which bank the testator meant and intended by the description of the old bank,
te said Henry Nixon caused the said will to be duly proved
according to the laws of Pennsylvania, and having received
letters testamentary thereon, took upon himself the burthen of
the execution thereof, and hath possessed himself of all the
goods, chattels and other personal estate of the said testator, to
a very large amount. And your orator expressly charges, that
be is the true and only heir at law of the said Matthias Aspden,
and that no other person than himself is entitled to claim or
receive the benefit of the said devise and bequest. And he
hath repeatedly applied to the said Henry Nixon, to have an
account of all and singular the personal estate of the said Matthias Aspden, and where and how the same is situated, and
what is the true and exact amount thereof, and to have the
amount thereof paid to him, deducting therefrom the just and
reasonable charges of the said executor. But now, so it is,
may it please your honours, that the said Henry Nixon, combining and confederating with others, to your orator unknown,
whose names, when discovered, he prays leave to insert with
apt words to charge them as parties, denies that your orator is

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[harrison and others v. Nixon.]

the heir at law of said Matthias Aspden, or that he is in any
way entitled to the benefit of any of te testamentary dispositions of the said Matthias Aspden, and refuses to render him

any account of the assets, and to pay him any part thereof.
In tender consideration whereof, and forasmuch as your
orator cannot have plain, adequate, and complete remedy at
law, to the end thereof, that the said Henry Nixon, and his
confederates, when discovered, on their oaths or affirmations,
full, direct, and true answers may make to all and singular
the matters aud things herein before set forth, as if they had
been particularly interrogated thereon, and that the said
Henry Nixon, may render and set forth a just and true account
of all and singular the personal estate of the said Matthias
Aspden, and where and how the same is situate, and whether
there are any and what debts due, or claimed to be due therefrom, and may be decreed to pay to your orator the balance of
the said moneys in his hands belonging to the said estate, to
which your orator is justly entitled, and your orator may have
such further relief in the premises, as is consistent with equity
and good conscience, and to this honourable court shall seem
meet."
To this bill the executor filed an answer as follows
"The answer of Henry Nixon, the defendant, to the bill of
complaint of Samuel Packer, complainant.
"This defendant says, that he believes, and admits, that
Matthias Aspden, the testator in the said bill named, at
Philadelphia, duly made and executed his last will and testament in writing, and three codicils thereto, all bearing date
the 6th day of December 1791 , and that such will and
codicils are in the words and figures, or to the purport and
effect in the paper annexed to the said bill set forth ; but for
greater certainty as to the date and contents of said will and
codicils, this defendant craves leave to refer thereto. And this
defendant says, that the said testator deposited his said will
and codicils, for safe custody, in the cashiers vault of the Bank
of North America, at Philadelphia, known as the old bank,
where the same were found after his decease. And the defendant believes it to be true, that the said testator departed

SUPREME COURT.
tHarnson and others v. Nixon.]

this life, on or about the 9th day of August 1824, in the city
of London, without having revoked or altered his said will and
codicils. And the defendant further answenng, says, that
George Roberts and Abraham Lidden, in the said will respectively named, both died in the lifetime of the said testator,
that the defendant, at the'time of the death of said testator,
was the president of the Bank of North America, at Philadelphia, known as the old bank. And the defendant admits it
to be true, that soon after the death of the said testator, to
wit, on the 19th day of November 1824, this defendant duly
proved the said will and codicils, in the office of the register for
the probate of wills and granting letters of administration for
the city and county of Philadelphia, and received letters testamentary thereon. And that the defendant also duly proved the
said will and codicils in the prerogative court of Canterbury,
in England, and obtained probate thereto from that court.
And this defendant admits it to be true, that as executor as
aforesaid, he has possessed himself of all the personal estate
aud effects of the said testator in the United States, or of so
much thereof, as has come to his knowledge, a true account
of which is in the schedule hereto annexed. And this defendant has paid the charges of proving the said will, at Philadelphia, and other charges incident thereto, and six of the legacies, the others having not yet been claimed, bequeathed by
the said will, a true account of which payments is in the schedule hereto annexed, and that as executor, other charges must
be incurred in managing and settling the estate, the amount of
which cannot now be ascertained, and that this defendant, as
executor, will be entitled to a commission for his services. And
this defendant further answering, says, that he believes it to
be true, that the said testator was, at the time of his death,
(among other descriptions of property) possessed of property in
the English funds, that is to say, 4000 pounds bank stock,
10,000 pounds, three per cent consolidated bank annuities,
192,500 pounds reduced three and a half per cent bank annuities, and 3,500 pounds, new four per cent bank annuities,
and that the said testator, also, was possessed of East India
stock, and also of South Sea stock to a considerable amount,
that is to say, 3000 pounds East India stock, and 5000 pounds
South Sea stock. And this defendant believes that the said

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Harrison and others v. Nixon.]

testator died possessed of other personal property to a consideble amount, and particularly of the sum of 790 pounds 3 shillings and 5 pence, in the hands of his bankers, Messrs Hoare, of
London, but that no part of the property of the said testator,
except that in the United States of America, as before stated,
has come to the hands or possession of this defendant. That
the whole of the property of the said testator, in England, is
claimed by John Aspden, of London, as entitled thereto, under
the devise of the said testator, as his heir at law, and that the
said John Aspden has filed a bill in the court of chancery, in
England, against this defendant, as executor of the said testator-and has, by the injunction of the said court, restrained
and prevented this defendant and his agents from obtaining
possession of any part of the property in England, of which the
said testator died possessed, further than that his attorneys,
S. Williams and J. Sterling, received the sum of 300 pounds,
being one half year's dividend on 3000 pounds, East India
stock belonging to the testator. That the expenses of proving
the will of the said testator, in England, amounted to 715
pounds 17 shillings and 10 pence, to pay which in part the said
sum of 300 pounds was applied by Messrs Williams and Sterling, and the residue, 415 pounds 17 shillings and 10 pence, was
paid out of the sum in the hands of Messrs Hoare, the testator's bankers. The said suit in chancery, by the said John
Aspden, is yet pending and undetermined. This defendant
has annexed to this, his answer, a copy of the bill filed by
said John Aspden. And this defendant, further answering,
says, he does not know, and is unable to answer, from his
belief or otherwise, whether the said testator left the complainant his heir at law, or whom he left his heir at law.
But this defendant, further answering, says, that the said
John Aspden, of London, claims to be heir at law, and as
such, entitled to the residue of the said testator's property,
and that there are many persons residing in the United
States of America, who claim to be next of kin to the said
testator, and as such, to be entitled to distributive shares of
the estate. That thins defendant is not able, from his own
knowledge, to name all the persons who so claim to be next of
kin, but that he has annexed to this his answer, a schedule,
which he prays may be taken as part of his answer, conVOL. Ix.-3 Di

SUPREME COURT.
[Harrison and others v. Nixon.]

taming the names of some of the persons so claiming to be
next of kin, and the manner in which they, or some of them,
have alleged to this defendant, they are connected with the
said testator. This defendant, further answering, says, that
three suits have been instituted against him, as executor of the
said testator, in the district court of the city and county of
Philadelphia, by persons claiming to be next of kin to the said
testator, to wit, one to December term 1826, by Stacy Kirkbridge and Sarah, his wife, late Sarah Hammett, another to
the same term, by James Packer, and the third to September
term 1827, by Job Packer, which suits are still pending and
undetermined. And this defendant, further answering, says,
that he can neither admit nor deny that the said testator was
a citizen of Pennsylvania, as alleged in the said bill. That
from information, he believes that the said Matthias Aspden,
the testator, was born in or about the year 1756, at Philadelphia, then being the place of residence of his parents, that he
continued to reside there, and afterwards was engaged in business at Philadelphia as a merchant, with some success, before
he was twenty-one years of age. Upon the breaking out of
the war between Great Britain and America, in the year 1776,
or some time in that year, being still a minor, he went to
England, with what view, this defendant, from his own knowledge, is not able to say, but he believes that he went with
an impression that the power of Great Britain must soon prevail in putting down the resistance made in America. That
the said testator subsequentlycaine several times to the United
States of America, and invested large sums there in the public or government stock, or in other securities, that he made
his will and the codicils thereto, at Philadelphia, the place of
his birth, and deposited them in the bank there, but whether
after so returning to the United States of America, the testator
went back to England as his home, or only for the purpose of
superintending his property, and Wvhether the testator did, in
fact, change his domicil, this defendant (save and except as
appears by the facts) doth not know, and is unable to answer.
But this defendant believes that the said testator, when in
England, considered himself as an alien, and as such, claimed
to have returned the tax taken from his dividends while he
was absent from England, according to the provisions of the

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Harrison and others v. Nixon.]

law exempting aliens from the tax if not resident in England.
That he died in King street, Holborn, London. "And this defendant says, that he submits to the judgment of the court,
whether, upon the true construction of the said will of the said
testator, the next of kin of the said testator are entitled, under
the same, to take the residue of the personal estate and effects
of the said testator, or whether the complainant, if he be the
heir at law, and If not, whether any other person as heir at
law of the said testator, is entitled to take the same under
the said will as such heir at law. And this defendant submits to act as this honourable court shall direct, being indemnified and paid his costs, charges and expenses therein. And
this defendant denies all combination and confederacy with
which he is charged in and by the said bill, without this,
that, &c.
"EIENRY

NIXON."

Petitions were filed in the circuit court by persons who
claimed to have distribution among them of the estate of the
testator, as the party contemplated by the will, each petition
setting forth the relationship between the persons presenting
the same, and the testator, and praying to be admitted as parties to the suit, for the purpose of claiming the fund admitted
by the executor to be in his hands, and that the court would
direct inquiries to be made as to their respective claims.
George Harrison and the other appellants were among those
who filed petitions.
Upon the reading and filing of the petitions of George Harrison, the court made an order, according to the prayer of the
same. Job Packer and John Zane were, by order of the court,
on their application, made defendants, and Isaac Zane was
entered as one of the complainants in the case. The record
contained no order or action of the court on the other petitions,
except an entry in reference to each petition, "read and filed,"
or "filed."
The circuit court ordered that it be referred to a master to
examine and state the next of kin of the testator, Matthias
Aspden, and commissions were ordered to take the depositions
of distant witnesses.
After the coming in of the master's report, in which was
3 DO

SUPREME COURT
[Harrison and others v. Nixon.]

contained a list of the heirs and kindred of the whole and half
blood of Matthias Aspdert the testator, and in which he reports
that John Aspden was "heir at common law," the circuit
court made the following decree.
"And now, this 26th day of December A. D. 1838, this
cause coming on to be heard on the bill, answer, petitions, exhibits, proofs and master's reports, and the several parties having been fully heard by their counseland the court having taken
time to consider of the same till this day, do order, adjudge
and decree, that the defendant Henry Nixon, surviving executor of Matthias Aspden deceased, do account for, pay over,
transfer and deliver, to John Aspden, of Lancashire, in England, one of the said parties, the heir at law of the said Matthias
Aspden, the entire balance of the personal estate of the said
Matthias Aspden, which has come to his hands to be administered, after paying the debts and legacies of the said Matthias
Aspden, and the costs of this suit (which are hereby ordered
to be paid out of the said fund). And the court do further
order, adjudge and decree, that the bill and petitions, so far
as they relate to the other complainants and petitions, who are
claimants before the court, and all other claimants before the
court, however appearing, be dismissed without costs.
"As to all parties who are claimants before the courtby bill,
petition, or otherwise, their complaint, petition, and proceedings are dismissed without costs." (a)
From this decree George Harrison and Thomas H. White,
Ann Emily Bronson, Elizabeth White Bronson, Hetta Atwater
Bronson and William White Bronson, minors by their guardian
the said Thomas H. White, Mary Harrison, a minor by her
guardian Elizabeth Harrison, Esther M'Pherson, and Elizabeth M'Pherson, children of Elizabeth M'Pherson deceased,
John Zane and Isaac Zane, prosecuted an appeal to this court.
Before the argument of the case, Mr James S. Smith stated
to the court, that he, with Mr Coxe, appeared before the court
either as amici curie, or as the court would permit them to appear; in behalf of the heirs of John Aspden, late of Old street,
(a) In the Appendix, No. 2, will be found the opinion of the circuit court
of the eastern district of Pennsylvania in this case, delivered by Mr Justice
Baldwin.

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Harrison and others v. Nixon.]

London, who claim to be the heirs at law of Matthias Aspden
the testator and who had no notice of the proceedings in the
circuit court of Pennsylvania. It is the wish of the counsel
for these claimants to be permitted to show irregularities in the
proceedings, and to have the case remanded to the circuit
court, in order that they may be allowed to come in and substantiate their claims to the whole estate, as the heir at law
John Aspden, whose heirs they represent, prosecuted a claim
to the estate of the testator, by a bill in the court of chancery
in England, which bill is referred to, and annexed to the answer of the executor, filed in the circuit court, and forms part
of the record now before this court.
Mr Sergeant, for the appellees, objected. The heirs of John
Aspden made an application to the circuit court for a bill of
review, for the purpose of obtaining admission into the case.
The court refused to give them the permission asked, and they
then obtained a citation from the orphan's court of the county
of Philadelphia, directed to Henry Nixon, as executor of
Matthias Aspden, returnable on the 16th of January 1835,
four days after the meeting of this court, thus seeking to maintain their claims in that court. They have since filed an onginal bill in the circuit court of Pennsylvania, against the executor.
Mr Coxe, in-support of the application. The case now before the court, is that of a bill filed by Samuel Packer, asserting himself to be the heir at law of the testator, ex parte materna, against the executor. These were the original parties
to the proceedings, other persons came in by petition, which
petitions were filed, but no amendments were made to the bill,
and on the filing of some of the petitions no order was made by
the circuit court, directing the petitioners to be admitted as
parties. The appeal from the circuit court is not made by
Samuel Packer, who was the only party who could appeal.
The counsel who present this application, desire that the
court will look at the record, and they trust, that the court,
seeing its imperfections, will remand the case to the circuit
court. The proper parties are not before the court.
At the last sessions of this court, the Chesapeake and Ohio

SUPREME COURT.
[Harrison and others v. Nixon.]

Canal Company were permitted to appear in the case of Mumma v. The Potomac Company, and take upon themselves the
whole argument of the case. 8 Peters 281.
Mr Justice STORY stated, that it appeared by the charter of
the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company, that the Potamac
Company had been merged m the former company, and had
vested in them all their property, and were subjected to the
responsibilities of the Potomac Company.

Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL.
The only parties the court can know, are those in the record.
They cannot permit counsel who represent parties who may
think themselves interested, not in the'record, to come in and
interfere. Let the argument proceed, and if the court see that
the proper parties are not before the court, they will act as may
be required.
Mr Ingersoll, representing the executor, handed to the court
the proceedings of the circuit court of the district of Pennsylvama, on a bill of review filed by the heirs of John Aspden of
Old street, London, against the executor, and the citation
issued to the executor at their instance, in the orphan's court
of the county of Philadelphia.
At a subsequent day of the term, when the cause came on
for argument upon the merits, a question was presented by
Mr Webster, who, with Mr Tilghman and Mr Newbold, was
the counsel for the appellants, whether the bill taken by itself,
.or in connexion w'ith the answer, contained sufficient matter
upon which the court could proceed, and finally dispose of the
cause, It was submitted, that the bill contains no averment
of the actual domicil of the testator, at the time he made his
will, or at any intermediate period, before, or at his death.(a)
The court directed this question to be argued, before the argument should proceed on the merits.
(a) In the Appendix, No. 3, will be found extracts from the opinion of the
circuit court of Pennsylvania, in this case, which are inserted as showing the
view of the court on the effect of the domicil of Matthias Aspden in the construction of the will.

JANUARY TERM 1835.

495

[Harrison and others v. Nixon.]

Mr W Rawle, Jun., for John Aspden.
The motion to remand this cause is founded on a suggestion
that its decision will turn upon the question of the testator's
domicil, and that this fact, not being averred in the leadings,
the court cannot decide it. If it can be shown, either that the
fact is not material, or that it is sufficiently averred, the motion
cannot be sustained.
In the court below, the question of domicil, though it was
made a point in the cause, was little relied upon. The argument went mainly on the ground that the law of England
and that of Pennsylvania, as to the construction of the will
in question, was the same, and if this position be correct,
it is manifest that the question of domicil is wholly immaterial. The establishment of this position, however, belongs
to the main argument. To discuss the principal question
in the cause, upon a preliminary question, whether or not the
cause shall come on, would derange the whole order of the
argument, and place the appellee under great disadvantages.
The proper course seems to be, for the court to hear the cause
argued, and if the decree of the circuit court can be affirmed,
without touching the question of domicil, it will be unnecessary to consider whether the pleadings raise that question ornot.
If, on the other hand, it be found to be material, and the record
does not present it properly to the court, it will be time enough
to remand the cause in order to have the pleadings amended.
But the question of domicil, if it be material, is before the
court. The rules of equity pleading, though they call for
certainty and precision to a reasonable extent, are not so rigorous in their requirements, as those which govern the proceedings of courts of law. From the nature and objects of its
jurisdiction, the rules of a court of chancery must possess a
more liberal character. 2 Madd. Ch. 168, Coop. Eq. Pl. b, 340.
Testing the record of this cause by the rules of pleading in
equity, fairly construed, the question of domicil is distinctly
raised. The proper place for the averment of such a fact is
the bill, but if that be defective, the defect may be cured by
the subsequent pleadings. If a material fact be not averred
in the bill, it is not a good bill. To constitute a good bill, it
must set forth such a case as will, upon its face, entitle the
complainant to a decree in his favour. He niust stale his title

SUPREME COURT.
[Harison and others v. Nixon.]

in such a manner as to give the court to understand the character in which he claims, and the nature and extent of his
interest. Mitf. 41, 42, 156, 2 Madd. 168, Coop. 5, 6, 7. If,
however, these matters be stated in general terms, it is sufficient.
All the subordinate facts in the evidence intended to be given,
need not be stated. Every subordinate fact is substantially
averred by the averment of a general fact, which embraces
them. If the bill, on its face, shows an equity in the complainant, if it exhibit him in a character possessing a right to
sue, and having an interest which he has a right to claim, it
is a good bill, and the defendant must plead to it, or answer it.
If it be defective, a demurrer may at once be opposed to it.
Mitf. 13, Coop. 109, 118.
The criterion of the soundness of a bill, is its capacity to bear
the test of a demurrer. By this test let the bill in this case be
tried. It sets out the will of the testator, &c., and avers that
the complainant is his heir at law, within the meaning of
the will, and, as such, entitled to the property disposed of
by it. It does not set out the details of his title. It does
not say whether he is heir by the law of England or by that of
Pennsylvania, nor does it state how he is heir, so as to
show under which law he claimed, and it would have been
highly imprudent if he had done so. If he had stated his
title in such a manner as to show that he claimed under
the law of England alone, or under that of Pennsylvania
alone, he might have been confined to proof of his title as
stated but by asserting his claim as heir at law generally, he
may show that he is so by any law which may govern the
case.
If the law of England and that of Pennsylvania be the
same, it is clear that it is of no consequence where the domicil
was. If, on the other hand, he was the heir at law intended
by the will, only because the testator's doinicil was in England,
then the fact of domicil was a subordinate fact-one of the
constituent parts of the character of heir, the averment of
which is embraced by the averment of the general fact of his
being the heir at law described by the testator. When he
avers that he is the heir, he avers all the facts which make him
so. The whole embraces all the parts.
Applying to this bill the test of a demurrer, does it show

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Harrison and others v. Nixon.]

title in the complainant ' If it had been demurred to, what
would have been the result 7 The will gives the estate of the
testator to his heir at law, the plaintiff avers that he is the
testator's heir at law, the demurrer admits tliathe is so and,
as a necessary consequence, the decree must be in his favour;
or the defendant must plead or answer.
The fact of domicil, therefore, if it be material, is substantially averred in the bill.
But if the bill be defective, it is cured by the answer, which
distinctly presents to the court the question of domicil. An
answer not only meets the case set forth by the bill, but may
set forth new matter essential to the defendant's case, either
to add to or qualify the case exhibited by the bill, or to make
out a new and in6pendent case for himself. If the new facts
stated in the answer are denied by the plaintiff's replication,
they are put in issue, if they are not denied, they are submitted to the court, by whom their legal effect is determined.
Mitf, 15, 315, 314, Cowp. 324, 2 Maddock 331. If, then,
facts necessary to make out the plaintiff's case are not found
in the bill, but the defendant introduces them into the answei,
and submits the whole matter to the court, it is regularly before
them.
This rule has a peculiar application tW a suit against a
trustee, such as the defendant in this cause. Mitf. 11. In
the present instance the whole matter is presented by the
answer. The defendant answers what he considers the interrogatories propounded by the bill. He does not aver that the
testator's domicil was either in England or Pennsylvania, but
he states distinctly all the facts within his knowledge upon
which the question of domicil depends, and being incapable of
drawing the conclusion of law from the facts, he submits the
decision of the question to the court, to whom it properly be.
longs. If he had answered otherwise, he must have done so
with great latitude of conscience, for how could he undertake
to swear to a conclusion of law q
The reason of the law is its life. The reason why averments are required is, that the parties may be apprised of
what they are to meet, and to prevent surprise. Coop. 5, 7.
If then the plaintiff omits to state his case in such a manner
as to apprise his adversary of a material fact in dispute, and
the defendant shows, not only by his answer, but by his
VOL. ix.-3 N

SUPREME COURT.
[Harrison and others v. Nixon.]

evidence, that he is fully aware of it, how can it be alleged
that he is taken by surprise, and how can the court be at a
loss for the means of deciding the question raised by it?
After such an answer, no reasonable objection could be
made to any evidence on the subject of domicil offered by the
plaintiff, for the question having been raised by the answer, if
not by the bill, either party was at liberty to give his proofs in
relation to it. Neither party could object to the evidence for
want of an averment but the answer to the present motion
derives additional force from the circumstance, that not only
no objection was made to evidence offered by the plaintiff, but
the real defendants in the cause, by whom the present motion
is made, themselves gave the only evidence that was given on
the subject of the testator's domicil. The parties went to a
hearing upon that evidence, and the court passed upon it.
Can it then be tolerated, that the party who raised the question,
who gave all the evidence he could collect in reference to it,
who went to a hearing upon it, and had a decree against him;
shall, in an appellate court, move to remand the cause for want
of a technical averment in the bill' To permit him to do so,
would be to sacrifice reason and justice to the merest and most
unsubstantial form. It would be vain to say that courts of
equity act on the broad principles of justice, and that rules
are devised as instruments for the promotion of its ends. To
grant the present motion, the court must go beyond a court of
law in its adherence to technicality.
Mr Tilghman, for the appellants. It is the wish of all the
parties interested in this case, that all the questions involved
in it shall be fully presented, and a full discussion of them
take place, before this court shall decide upon the interests
affected by these questions. To the executor this is most important, for his protection. But a decree of this court, in the
present state of the pleadings, will not be a final termination of
the controversy.
The fact of the domicil of Matthias Aspden, does not appear
in the pleadings, or on the evidence in the case. It is not
averred in the bill, nor is it brought forward in the answer.
The bill alleges, that the will was made by a citizen of Pennsylvania the answer admits this, and that the testator died in

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Harrison and others v. Nixon.]

London. Neither the assertion of citizenship, or the admission
of the place of death, puts forth the fact of domicil.
The fact of the testator's domicil has always been considered
as most important in the case, whether in England, or in
Pennsylvania, will, as the appellants believe, have a positive
and decisive influence on the rights of the claimants. If the
domicil is now conceded by the appellees to have been in
Pennsylvania, the appellants are ready to proceed in the argument of all the other questions in this cause.
In England, proceedings to establish the claims of certain
persons who live there, were instituted for the purpose of obtaining the property of the testator in that kingdom, and the
proceedings were dismissed on the ground that the domicil of
the testator was in America, and the whole of the questions in
the case, and all the claims of those who made claims were
properly to be litigated in Pennsylvania.
The executor has not undertaken to represent the interests
of any one, but he stands independent. He asks, that the
case shall be so disposed of, that he shall be protected from
all further claims. If the record shall be certified, after the
case shall be decided, without containing an explicit averment
of domicil, and that the fact of domicil was nbt inquired into
it will not appear that the fact of domicil is decided. This would,
expose the executor to a claim in another state, resting or
asserted to rest on the domicil, and clarmed to be essential to
the full decision of the right of parties under the will.
It is not the purpose of the counsel for the appellants to refer
the court to the elementary rules on this point, as it is conceded by the counsel for the appellees, that the allegation of
domicil must appear in the pleadings. The only question
therefore is, does this appear, or was it so made, as that it was
investigated, and decided by the circuit court.
It is known to the court that there is another party claiming
the whole of the property of the testator, and who is not in
the proceedings before the circuit court. He is a formdable
party, on the principles decided in the circuit court. This
party was, in the opinion of that court, on a bill for a review
which was presented to the court, admitted to be of this character. Cited the opinion of the circuit court in the case re-

SUPREME COURT.
[Harrison and others v. Nixon.]

ferred to.(a) It is thus shown that the record is defective, and
that there is such a party. But to the next of kin, the appellants,
this party is of no importance. His claim does not affect their
claims. They deny his rights as heir at law, although they
maintain that his rights, and those of all others shall be presented in the case before its final disposition.
Mr Sergeant, in reply
Is the question of domicil open on the pleading"q Does it
appear important '
If the want of an essential averment is not taken notice of by
the party claiming it as necessary, when he has a full opportunity to do so, his Tight and opportunity to do so may be lost.
If the point is not sufficiently before the court, the party complaining should have moved to suppress the evidence on it. If
he does not do this, and goes into the investigation, can he
afterwards avail himself of it, having taken the opportunity of
an examination and discussion of the case, and this after a decree. Those who were parties in the circuit court are precluded
from taking this exception.
Is there not in the pleadings sufficient to have introduced
evidence as to the domicil of the testatorq And if therewas not,
should not those who consider such an averment essential,
have moved to suppress all evidence on it
Is it necessary to allege domicil q The law settles, that
every man has a domicil. The answer of the executor shows,
that'the domicil was brought forward. But in this case, the
domicil of the testator was unimportant, as the law of England
and Pennsylvania, by which this case must be decided, is alike.
There is enough in the case for the decision of all the claims
on the estate of the testator; and the executor will be entirely
safe under the decision of this court. He has done all that
could or can be required of him.
It is denied that any persons but those in the record have any
right to interpose in this court, nor should the proceedings in
the circuit court, after the appeal, have been referred to. Certainly no reference should have been made to the opinion of the
(a) The opinion -of the circuit court of Pennsylvania, deliveredfl this
case by Mr Justice Baldwin, will be found in the Appendix, No. 3.

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Harrison and others v. Nixon.]

court, in a case subsequently brought before that court, by a
person not a party in the case here. Nor would the opinion of
the presiding judge in the circuit court susta.a the reference to
it, if that opinion were fully examined.
Mr Ingersoll, counsel for the executor, offered to the court
the proceedings in the circuit court of Pennsylvania, on a bill
of review filed in that court against the executor.
He stated, that if the court shall think proper to take those
proceedings into their consideration, the counsel for the executor, and those who represent the parties to the bill of review,
are prepared and ready to act as may be considered proper, and
may be permitted.
Mr Sergeant desired, that the principal question before the
court shall be first decided, and after this shall be disposed of,
any other matters wuch may properly be considered may be
examined.
Mr Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is the case of an appeal from a decree of the circuit
court of the district of Pennsylvania, in a suit in equity The
bill was filed by Samuel Packer, and asserts, that one Matthias
Aspden, a citizen of Pennsylvania, made his will, dated in
Philadelphia, on the 6th of December 1791, and thereby bequeathed all his estate, real and personal, to his heir at law, and
afterwards died in August 1824, and his will was proved and
letters testamentary were taken out in Pennsylvania by the appellee, under which he has received large sums of money, and
the bill then asks for a decree in favour of Packer, who asserts
himself to be the true and only heir at law of Matthias Aspden,
and that he is soleiy entitled under the bequest. The answer of
the executor states, from information and belief, that the testator
was born in Philadelphia, which was the residence of his parents, about 1756, that he continued to reside there, doing busihess as a merchant, with some success, before he was twenty-one
years of age, that before the breaking out of the war between
Great Britain and America in 1776, being still a minor, he went
to England, with what view, the executor is not, from his own
knowledge, able to say-but he believes that he went with an

SUPREME COURT
(Harrison and others v. Nixon.]

impression, that the power of Great Britain must soon prevail
in putting down resistance in America, that the testator subsequently came several times to the United States, and invested
large sums in government stocks and other securities, but
whether after so returning to the United States, the testator
went back to England as his home, or only for the purpose of
superintending his property, and whether the testator did in
fact change his domicil, the executor (save and except as appears from the facts) doth not know, and is unable to answer, but he believes that the testator, when in England,
considered himself as an alien, &c., and he died in King
street, Holborn, London. The answer also states, that the
executor proved the will, and took out letters testamentary in
England, and states certain proceedings had upon a bill in
chancery in England, against him, by one John Aspden there,
claiming to be the heir at law of the testator, and annexes to
his answer a copy of the bill. He also alleges, that several
other persons have made claims to the same property, as next
of kin of the testator, of whose names, &c. he annexes a
schedule.
Various proceedings were had in the circuit court of Pennsylvania, and a reference was made to a master to examine
and state who were all the heirs, and next of kin, of the testator.
The master made a report, which was afterwards confirmed,
and thereupon a final decree was made by the court, in favour
of John Aspden of Lancashire in England, one of the persons
who made claim before the master, as entitled, as heir at law,
to the personal estate in the hands of the executor, and the
claims of the other persons claiming as heirs at law, were dismissed, and the present appeal has been taken by several of
these claimants.
The cause having come before this court for argument upon
the merits, a question occurred whether the frame of the bill,
taken by itself, or taken in connexion with the answer, contained sufficient matter upon which the court could proceed
to dispose of the merits of the cause, and make a final decision.
The bill contains no averment of 'the actual domicil of the
testator at the time of the making of his will, or at the time of
his death, or at any intermediate period. Nor does the answer contain any averments of doncil, which supply these

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Harrison and others v. Nixon.]

defects in the bill, even if it could so do, as we are of opinion,
in point of law, it could not. Every bill must contain in itself
sufficient matters of fact, per se, to maintain the case of the
plaintiff, so that the same may be put in issue by the answer,
and established by the proofs. The proofs must be according
to the allegations of the parties and if the proofs go to matters
not within the allegations, the court cannot judicially act upon
them as a ground for its decision for the pleadings do not put
them in contestation. The allegataand the probata must reciprocally meet and conform to each other. The case cited at
the bar, of Matthew v. Hanbury, 1 Vern. Rep. 187, does not
in any manner contradict this doctrine. The proofs there
offered were founded upon allegations in the bill, and went
directly to overthrow the consideration of the bonds, set up
in the answer, in opposition to the allegations of the bill, the latter having asserted that the bonds were obtained by threats and
undue means, and not for any real debt, or other good consideration. Is, then, any averment of the actual domicil of the testator, junder the circumstances of the present case, proper and
necessary to be made in the bill, in order to enable the court to
come to a final decision upon the merits'2 We think that it
is, for the reasons which will be presently stated.
The point was never brought before the circuit court for
consideration, and, consequently, was not acted on by that
court. It did not attract attention, (at least as far as we
know) on either side, in the argument there made, and it was
probably passed over, (as we all know matters of a similar nature are every where else) from the mutual understanding
that the merits were to be tried, and without any minute inquiry whether the merits were fully spread upon the record.
It is undoubtedly an inconvenience, that the mistake has occurred, but we do not see how the court can, on this account,
dispense with what, in their judgment, the law will otherwise
require.
The present is the case of a will, and so far at least as the
matter of the bill is concerned, is exclusively confined to personalty bequeathed by that will. And the court are called upon to
give a construction to the terms of the will, and in an especial
manner to ascertain, who is meant by the words "heir at law,"
in the leading bequest in the will. The language of wills is

SUPREME COURT.
[Harrison and others v. Nixon.]

not of universal interpretation, having the same precise import
in all countries, and under all circumstances. They are supposed to speak the sense of the testator, according to the received laws or usages of the country where be is domiciled, by
a sort of tacit reference, unless there is something in the language which repels or controls such a conclusion. In regard
to personalty in an especial manner, the law of the place of
the testator's doiicil governs In the distribution thereof, and
will govern in the interpretation of wills thereof, unless it is
manifest that the testator had the laws of some other country
in his own view
No one can doubt, if a testator born and domiciled in England during his whole life, should, by his will, give his
personal estate to his heir at law, that the descriptio personm
would have reference to and be governed by the import of the
terms in the sense of the laws of England. The import of
them might be very different, if the testator were born and
domiciled in France, in Louisiana, in Pennsylvania, or in Massachusetts. In short, a will of personalty speaks according to
the laws of the testator's domicil, where there are no other
circumstances to control their application, and to raise the
question, what the testator means, we must first ascertain what
was his domicil, and whether he had reference to the laws of
that place, or to the laws of any foreign country. Now, the
very gist of the present controversy turns upon the point who
were the person, or persons, intended to be designated by the
If, at the
testator, under the appelIhtion of "heir at law"
time of making his will, and at his death, he was domiciled in
England, and had a reference to its laws, the designation might
indicate a very different person, or persons, from what might
be the case, (we do not say what is the case) if, at the time of
making his will, and of his death, he was domiciled in Pennsylvania. In order to raise the question of the true interpretation and designation, it seems to us indispensable that the
country, by whose laws his will is to be interpreted, should be
first ascertained , and then the inquiry is naturally presented,
what the provisions of those laws are.
If this be the true posture of the present case, then the bill
should allege all the material facts upon which the plaintiff's
title depends, and the final judgment of the court must be
given, so as to put them in contestation in a proper and regular

JANUARY TERM 1865.
[Harrison and others v. Nixon.]

manner. And we do not perceive how the court can dispose
of this cause without ascertaining where the testator's domicil
was, at the time of his making his will, and at the time of his
death, and if so, then there oughL to be suitable averments in
the bill to put these matters in issue.
In order to avoid any misconception, it is proper to state, that
we do not mean, in this stage of the cause, to express any opinion, what would be the effect upon the interpretation of the
will, if the domicil of the testator was in one country at
the time of his making his will, and in another country at the
time of his death. This point may well be left open for future
consideration. But being of opinion, that an averment of the
testator's domcil is indispensable in the bill, we thinkthe case
ought to be remanded to the circuit court, for the purpose of
having suitable amendments made in this particular; and that
it will be proper to aver the domicil at the time of making the
will, and at the time of the death of the testator, and during
the intermediate period (if there be any change), so that the
elements of a full decision may be finally brought before the
court. The petitions of the claimants should contain similar
averments.
It appears, from the motions which have been made to this
court, as well as from certain proceedings in the court below,
which have been laid before us in support thereof, that there
are certain claimants of this bequest, asserting themselves to
be heirs at law, whose claims have not been adjudicated upon
in the court below, on account of their having been presented
at too late a period. As the cause is to go back again for further proceedings, and must be again opened there for new allegations and proofs, these claimants will have a full opportunity
of presenting and proving their claims in the cause and we
are of opinion, that they ought to be let into the cause for this
purpose. In drawing up the decree, remanding the cause,
leave will be given to them, accordingly. The decree of the
circuit court is, therefore, reversed, and the cause is remanded
to the circuit court, for further proceedings, in conformity to
this opinion.
Mr Justice BALDWIN, dissenting.
The preliminary question which has been decided by this
VOL. ix.-3 o

SUPREME COURT.
[Harrison and others v. Nixon.]

court, is one of the deepest interest to all suitors in the inferior courts of the United States, the judges thereof, and the
profession generally The nature of the objection to hearing
the cause-on its merits, or to even examine the evidence or the
decree; the time at which it was made, with its attendant circumstances, make this case a precedent of infinite importance
as a rule for future proceedings in a court of the last resort, in
the exercise of a jurisdiction exclusively appellate.
A final decree of a circuit court, rendered in a long pending
and zealously contested cause, after the fullest consideration,
has not only been reversed, but all its proceedings so completely annulled, as to open the case to new parties, new bills,
pleadings, issues, and evidence, and to make it necessary to
begin de novo, in the same manner as if the court had never
acted on any question which could arise.
This has been done, too, on an objection not taken by counsel, either in the circuit court, or assigned for error here in the
printed brief of their points, presented to this court as the
ground of a reversal of the decree of which the appellants
complain nor did either of their counsel think proper to avail
themselves of the suggestion after it fell from the bench, until
the one who opened the argument had closed his view of the
first ground assigned in the brief for error. And when on the
next day, another of the counsel of the appellants, drew the
attention of the court to the objection, it was not to reverse the
decree as erroneous in law or fact, but as a reason for considering it as so merely and utterly void, as to make it improper to
examine into the errors assigned by himself and colleagues;
and proper to suspend the argument on the merits, till the consideration of the question thus raised, the decision of which
leaves the law, justice and equity of the case untouched,
while every proceeding had in it is utterly prostrated, leaving
the parties, at the end of a four years'litigation, to begin anew
To them it is no consolation, that these effects have been produced by an objection of mere form, not deemed by the counsel
of either party, worthy of being noticed or guarded against, for
the action of an appellate court on ajudgmentatlaw,ora decree
in equity, can be of no middle character. A reversal annuls
it to all intents and purposes, it can no longer be given in evidence in support of any right, or as proof of any fact in favour

JANUARY TERM 18,35.
[Harrison and others v. Nixon.]

of the party in whose favour it was rendered, or against the opposite party- no one thing remains a res adjudicata, but every
question of law and fact is as entirel, open, as if the court
had never given a judgment or decree. It is inconsistent with
the constitution of appellate courts In England, or the states
of this union, to modify a general reversal of a judgment or
decree, it is absolute, and must be attended with all legal consequences, which no court can avert by any salvo or declaration that it is reversed only pro forma, the decree or judgment cannot be in any part carried into effect in the court below, or come again into an appellate court, till a new one is
rendered. The same principles prevail in the courts of the
United States, by force of the judiciary and process acts, and
the seventh rule of this court, which regulate all proceedings
by those of the king's bench and courts of equity in England,
unless otherwise provided for by law, subject to such alterations and additions as this court may prescribe to the circuit
courts, or as they may make not inconsistent therewith. 1 Story's Laws 67, 257 This court has uniformly acted by the
rules thus prescribed, which regulate not only its own proceedings, but its adjudication on those of inferior courts which are
brought within its appellate power- they must,"therefore, be
considered as the tests of the conformity of the decision now
made, with the established principles of courts of original or
appellate jurisdiction, by the course of the law of equity, the
rules of this court, and the acts of congress which regulate
its exercise on appeals.
In the circuit court, George Harrison and others were claimants of a fund in the hands of Mr Nixon as executor* their
petitions having been dismissed on a final decree against them,
they now on an appeal ask for its reversal for the reasons assigned in the brief of their counsel, which relate entirely to the
merits of their claim, but at the same time contend, that the
whole proceedings in the circuit court are mere nullities; because the appellants themselves, as well as the other claimants,
omitted to insert in their petitions a direct averment of the
domicil of the testator, under whose will they all claim. As
this objection is not aimed at the decree, or the right of any
party who claims the fund, it must be considered as applicable
solely to the form and frame of the original bill and petitions,

SUPREME COURT.
[Harrison and others v. Nixon.]

intended to present, not a cause of reversal of the decree for
error in law or fact, but the broad question of jurisdiction.
First, whether it was competent for the circuit court, to make
any decree in the case before them, and next, whether the
decree rendered is such that this court, in virtue of its appellate
power, can hear and determine the matter appealed from. It
must have occurred at once to the mind of the learned judge
who first suggested the objection, and cannot have escaped
the observation of the counsel who has availed himself of it,
that if the case was within the judicial cognizance of the circuit court, no decree rendered by them could be treated as a
nullity; however erroneous, it is binding on the parties till an
appeal, and becomes final if none is taken within five years.
It could not be declared a void act, for any cause which did
not affect the original jurisdiction, without any reference to the
decree rendered by the circuit court. To justify such a course,
it must be in a case where this court would be bound to reverse
at all events, and where its affirmance would not cure the defect, but would leave the original decree without any effect
upon the rights of .the parties, and prevent it from being received as evidence in any court, state, federal or foreign.
An appeal upon any ground short of this, must affect the
decree as erroneous merely, on some matter injurious to the
appellant, who has his remedy under the twenty-second section of the judiciary act, by an appeal from a "final decree in
asuitin equity," which'it declares may "be re-examined, and reversed or affirmed in the supreme court." It follows that there
is a discretion to reverse or affirm according to the right of the
case, and, fairly, it cannot be contended, that if a decree can be
affirmed on appeal, it can be considered as a mere nullity after
affirmance, if the question arising on the appeal, was one of
merely error, not of jurisdiction. Nor can it be doubted, that
if the merits of the case were cognizable by the court below,
they are equally so on appeal and that a final decree of affirmance binds all parties in all courts, as to the matters decreed,
which must be done on a re-examination of the final decree.
Such is the general course prescribed to this court by the
twenty-second section, in all cases coming before them by appeal. the twenty-fourth is still more explicit. "That when a
judgment or decree shall be reversed in a circuit court, such

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Harrison and others v. Nixon.]

court shall proceed to render such judgment, or pass such decree as the district court should have rendered or passed, and
the supreme court shall do the same on reversals therein, except where the reversal is in favour of the plaintiff or petitioner
in the original suit, and the damages to be assessed or the
matter to be decreed are uncertain, in which case they shall
remand the cause for a final dec.sion."
The second clause of the second section of the third article
of the constitution declares, "that in all cases affecting ambassadors, other public ministers and consuls, and those in which
a state shall be party, the supreme court shall have original
jurisdiction. In all the other cases before mentioned, the
supreme court shall have appellate jurisdiction, both as to law
and fact, with such exceptions and under such regulations as
the congress shall make."
The twenty-second and twenty-fourth sections of the judiciary act, are the execution by congress of an express constitutional power, which makes these provisions as imperative on
the supreme court, as if they had been detailed in the body of
the constitution they form its constitution as an appellate
court, defining its powers, and prescribing their exercise, in
re-examining, reversing or affirming the final judgments and
decrees of all courts which may be brought within its appellate
jurisdiction.
The twenty-second limits the appellate power to the revision
of final decrees in cases in equity, herein departing from the
course-of appellate courts in England and in New York, there
an appeal lies to the house of lords or court of errors, from the
interlocutory orders and decrees of the chancellor the other
regulations prescribed by the judiciary act, are in conformity
to the uniform course of all appellate courts, as long settled by
uniform practice, adopted by the rules, and followed in the decisions of this court. This course cannot be better defined
than in the words of Chancellor Kent. "It is the acknowledged doctrine of courts of review, to give such decree as
the court below ought to have given , and when the plaintiff below brings the appeal, the court above not only reverses
what is wrong, but decrees what is right, and models the relief according to its own view of the ends of justice, and the
exigences of the case. The court above acts, therefore, on

SUPREME COURT.
[Harrison and others v. Nixon.]

appeals in the given case, with all the plenitude of a court of
equity of original jurisdiction, and the ,special terms of the
decree, whatever they may be, become to this court the law of
that case, and no other or further relief can be administered to
the party " 1 J. C. 194, 195.
This doctrine, then, is the law of this court, not only by the
acknowledged principles of the law of equity, but [s an injunction of the supreme law of the land, from the observance
of which, the court can be absolved by no rule or practice contrariant thereto. If its authority rested alone on either the
recognised rules of appellate courts, or their settled practice
it might be varied at the discretion of the court, by their power
to make rules respecting practice, proceedings and process,
but they can have no discretion to alter or depart from those
"principles and usages of law" which congress have adopted
as regulations of, and exceptions to, the appellate power of all
the courts of the United states, pursuant to the provisions of
the constitution.
It must, therefore, be taken as a rule of constitutional law,
binding on this court, that if it takes cognizance of a cause on
appeal under the twenty-second section, it must be by re-examining the decree, reversing or affirming it, and by the
twenty-fourth, on reversal, to give such decree as the circuit
court ought to have rendered, or remanding it for final decision
as the case may be. There can be no other course pursued,
for, as the appellate power is confined to those cases to which
it has been extended by congress, and must be exercised within
the limits and by the regulations prescribed, it can have no inherent powers in virtue of which it can review or revise the
decrees of the inferior courts, by any general superintending
authority such as appellate courts may have, whose jurisdiction
has neither been conferred or regulated by a constitution or
statute. No principle has been better settled, or more steadily
adhered -to, than that this is a court of special jurisdiction,
whether original or appellate, which the constitution has defined and separated by a line, which congress cannot pass, by
extending that which is original, to cases which are appellate
or e converso. 1 Cranch 164, &c. As the present is an unquestioned case of appellate jurisdiction, it must be exercised according to the regulations prescribed by congress, by an examination

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Harrison and others v. Nixon.]

of the final decree on its merits, if the court takes judicial
cognizance of the record. Any other course is wholly unknown
in an appellate court of equity, unless there is such a fatal
defect in the record as affects the jurisdiction of the court
below, and prevents the court above from acting judicially
upon it by hearing and determining the matters in controversy.
in which case the decree will be reversed, the cause remanded,
and the circuit court be directed to dismiss the bill, or make the
amendments necessary to give it jurisdiction.
It is not pretended that the circuit court has not jurisdiction
of this case, as one between proper parties, touching a proper
subject matter of controversy, nor can it be doubted that the
jurisdiction of this court is equally clear. A final decree has
been rendered, an appeal regularly taken, by parties affected
by the decree, who, having given the requisite security, have
a right to be heard on all matters appealed from, to ask a
reversal and a decree in their favour. The party in whose
favour the decree has been rendered, appears here pursuant to
the citation, with an equal right to defend his interests, to
demand an affirmance of the decree, with a mandate for its
execution.
This court, then, cannot refuse to hear the appeal, on the
ground of a want of power, to hear and finally determine all
matters appealed from, which are properly and fully cognizable by both courts and this objection does not profess to be
founded on the want of competent parties to a controversy in
the federal courts, or a subject matter cognizable in equity. As
it avoids these questions, the objection defeats itself, for it must
necessarily apply to the course of the circuit court in the progress of the cause, and their final adjudication on the matters
submitted by the parties, the revision of which is the ordinary
exercise of the jurisdiction of an appellate court, in conformity
with the acknowledged doctrine of such courts and the positive
injunctions of the judiciary act, which it is the direct oblect of
this motion to prevent, and which has been effected by the
judgment now rendered. There being no doubt of the jurisdiction of either court, the only questions which can arise are,
whether any of the petitioners have, on this record, shown a
right in equity to demand from the respondent Nixon, the fund
which he holds in his hands, subject to the order of the court,

SUPREME COURT.
[Harrison and others v. Nixon.]

he claiming no interest in it, except his commissions and proper
credits. The case is, therefore, one of ordinary occurrence a
bill in equity filed by one claimant, and petitions by others, for
the surplus of an estate in the hands of an executor, who in
his answer rnterpleads, submits to any order the court may
make, and prays their protection by such a decree as will save
him from future litigation.
Whether a bill in equity contains any ground for relief, or,
what is called in the language of its courts "equity," is not a
question of jurisdiction, but of merits the inquiry is, has the
petitioner set forth a-cause of action in his complaint, has he
averred any matter which, if true, entitles him to the relief
prayed for, or any relief, or set it forth in the manner required
by the rules of equity I If he has, the respondent must plead
some new matter in avoidance, or in his answer give some
reason why he does not do, or ought not to be decreed to do,
the thing required of him. If the complainant's petition contains no equity, or sets it out defectively, it is good cause for
demurrer generally, or for cause or the respondent may object in his answer, or at the hearing, to the want of equity in
the bill, and it is a good ground for the reversal of a decree on
appeal. So, if a question arises whether the allegations of
the bill are made out by the proofs in the cause, it is a proper subject of consideration before rendering a decree in the
court below, as weli as review in the appellate court, not as a
question of jurisdiction, but one which arises in its exercise.
" It is well settled that the decree must conform to the allegationsof the parties," l1Wheat. 120; andbe sustained bythem
as well as by the proofs in the cause, 10 Wheat. 189, but
whether it does so conform, and is so sustained, is determined
by the appellate court, on the inspection of the whole record
and proceedings before them as was done by this court in
Carneal v. Banks, and Harding v. Handy, above cited. In
examining the allegations of a declaration in a court of law, a
court of errror examines only whether the plaintiff has set out
a title or cause of action. "If," in the language of this court,
"it is defectively or inaccurately set forth, it is cured by a verdict, because, to entitle the plaintiff to recover, all circumstances necessary to make out his cause of actionD, so im-

perfectly stated, must be proved at the trial

but, when no

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Harrison and others v. Nixon.]

cause of action is stated, none can be presumed to have been
proved. The case is not to be considered as if before us on a
demurrer to the declaration. The want of an averment, so as
to let in the proof of usage, cannot now be objected to the record. The evidence was admitted without objection, and now
forms a part of the record, as contained in the bill of exceptions.
Had an objection been made to the admission of the evidence
of usage, for the want of a proper averment in the declaration,
and the evidence had, notwithstanding, been received, it would
have presented a very different question." 9 Wheat. 594, 595.
This is the settled rule of this court in cases at law, that they
will not reverse a judgment for any defective averment in a
declaration, not demurred to, if the plaintiff has substantially
set out a cause of action, such too is the established principle
in cases in equity. As where a bill was filed to set aside a
conveyance, on account of the mental incompetency of the
grantor, which contained no direct or positive averment of his
incapacity, yet the court took cognisance of the case, examined the bill and proofs, and decided that, "although a more
direct and positive allegation that C. H. was incapable of
transacting business, would have been more satisfactory than
the detail of circumstances from which the conclusion is
drawn, yet we think that the averment of his incompetency
is sufficiently explicit to make it a question in the cause.
The defendant has met the charge, and we cannot doubt
that his answer is sufficiently responsive to give him all the
benefit which the rules of equity allow to an answer in such
cases." 11 Wheat. 121.
In that case the whole gravamen of the bill, the whole
equity of the case, was in the averment of the incompetency
of the grantor to make a contiact, yet it was held sufficient
to aver the circumstances from which the conclusion could be
drawn, that it was enough if the bill made it a question in the
cause, that the defendant had met the charge, and his answer
was sufficiently responsive. The court proceeded to look
into the proofs in the cause, inquired whether the testimony
established the incompetency of C. H., and examined the immense mass of contradictory evidence which the record contained, with attention, and affirmed the decree of the circuit court
of the first circuit annulling the contract, on the ground of inVOL. ix.-3 P

SUPREME COURT
[Harrison and others v. Nixon.]

competency. It is therefore a settled point, that an objection to
the sufficiency of the averments of the bill, must be considered
by the appellate court, as one directly involving the merits of
the case, it is the statement of the complainant's cause of action, to which the defendant must demur, if he relies on the
want of form, manner or circumstance, or he loses the benefit
of the objection. If he relies on an objection to the substance
of the averment, or its variance from the proofs in the case,
he must make it appear to the satisfaction of the court, that
the bill contains no equity on its face, that no cause of action
is set forth, nor any circumstances from which the conclusion
of an averment of one, could be drawn conformably to the
evidence adduced. The application of these cases to the record of the circuit court, presents only this difference, by the
substitution of the word domwil for usage in Renner v. The
Bank of Columbia, and citizenship for incompetency in Harding v. Handy, the rule and principles of both are identcal
in point of law
In applying these maxims of this court to the objection
made by the appellants to the re-examination of this case, the
record shows that the gravamen of the original bill and all the
petitions is, that Matthias Aspden made a will devising his
real and personal estate to his heir at law, and died leaving
Henry Nixon, the respondent, his executor, who has in his
hands a large surplus of personal property, to which the several parties aver themselves to be entitled by the terms of the
will, but which the exeoutor refuses to pay over, though bound
in equity so to do. If these averments are-true, if they are
made out by the proofs and exhibits in the cause, there is
certainly equity in the bill sufficient to entitle the devisee, or
legatee, to a decree against the executor for the surplus of the
estate in his hands. Had he demurred to the bill, he would
have been adjudged to answer over, for there could have been
no clearer case for the interposition of a court of equity, or
if he had insisted on the objection at the hearing, it could not
have been doubted that there was a substantial averment of a
ground of relief.
-The execution of the will was duly proved, the sanity of the
testator was admitted, the fund was in the hands of the respondent, who admitted the trusts, submitted to the jurisdic-

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Harrison and others v. Nixon.]

tion of the court,

ready to abide their decree, he held the
money for such person as they should decree to be the person
entitled under the will, which was an exhibit in the case.
The only question depending was, who was the person that
filled the description of the devisee or legatee, when that
was ascertained, the whole controversy was ended. Had the
will named Samuel Packer of New Jersey, the original complainant, George Harrison of Philadelphia, or John Aspden of
Lancashire, England, two of the petitioners, parties to this appeal, as the favoured objects of this testator's bounty, the
executor would have stood without an excuse, for not paying
It could not be a material
him the surplus of the estate.
averment where the testator's domicil was his executor was
bound to obey the directions of his will, be his domicil where
it might. This proposition admits of no doubt. But as the
will names no person, it must be ascertained from its terms,
who was intended to be the devisee, or whom the law designated as such by the legal intendment of the words used in the
will. When that is done, the rights of the person or persons
thus designated and the duties of the executor, become the
same as if he had bden expressly named ag the person entitled,
on which the question of the domicil of the testator could
have no direct bearing.
The only direct question on the construction of the will, was
the intention of the testator as to who should enjoy his estate
after his death, all other questions were collateral to this, and
the only effect of his domicil could be, as the ground of an
inference of his intention being, to give it to such person as
should be his heir by the local law. But this is only a circumstance from which to draw an inference of intention, and before
such inference could be drawn, it must be made to appear, that
the law of England designated one person, and the law of
Pennsylvania a different one. If the law of both countries is
the same in this respect, the averment of domicil in the bill
would not put in issue even a circumstance, from which any
conclusion could be drawn, and so far from being matter of
substance affecting a final decree, it would not be a ground of
special demurrer. If it once becomes the established rule of
this court, that the decree of a circuit court shall be annulled
on a motion, without an examination of the record, because it

SUPREME COURT.
[Harrison and others v. Nixon.)

does not set out an averment of a collateralfact or circumstance
bearing on the intention of the testator by inference merely, then
every such fact or circumstance must be averred distinctly, of
which domicil is but one of many. The state of a testator's family and property, is always referred to, to ascertain the
devisee or thing devised, evidence of other collateral facts
may be inttoduced in many cases to aid in the construction of
a will, or to show the intention of the testator, but no court of
equity ever held it necessary to aver those matters in a bill,
brought to enforce the trusts of the will, in favour of a devisee
or legatee. In this case, however, the original bill alleges the
testator to have been a citizen of Pennsylvania,at the time of his
death, this is done in direct and positive terms; it is only
necessary, therefore, to apply to this averment, the principle
laid down by this court, in Harding v. Handy. Is citizenship
a circumstancefrom which the conclusion of domicil may be drawn?
Is it sufficiently explicit to make domcil a question in the cause ?
and has the respondentmet this part of the bill ? These questions
are of easy solution. The domicil of a citizen of Pennsylvania
is certainly not presumed by law to be in England, without
some proof of his residence there, but is presumed to be in
Pennsylvania till the contrary is proved. The respondent has
considered the averment of domicil as made, for he has answered it, the parties in the cause have deemed it a question raised,
by taking testimony touching it, each of the ten counsel who
argued the case in the court below, made it a point, except one,
who did not deem it material, and the court thought proper to
take it into their consideration and express an opinion upon it
as a point which had been argued-not whether the domicil
had been properly averred, but where it appeared by the evidence to have been in fact, andits bearing on the wilf'and cause.
It was the most deliberate opinion of both the judges of the
circuit court, that the law of both countries pointed to the same
person as the devisee, and that the fact of domicil had no bearing on the intention of the testator, or the construction of his
will. As this was a question of local law, arising directing in
the case, it was deemed necessary to examine it thoroughly,
before rendering a final decree, and if it is now one vital to the
case, it would seem proper at least to consider whether the
conclusion of the circuit court was so clearly wrong on the law

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Harrison and others v. Nixon.]

of Pennsylvanza, as to justify this court in annulling their final
decree, without an argument on the point.
In this opinion the circuit court were supported by the counsel of the appellants, in their printed brief, presented for the
argument of the cause in this court. Their third point is
"that the law of Pennsylvania is to govern this case, and that
by that law they are entitled." Their fourth point is "but
that if the case is to be decided by the law of England, still the
appellants are entitled." Thus most distinctly admitting the
identity of the law of both countries in its application to this
will, which was also asserted by the counsel of the appellees.
Nor have the appellants' counsel, in their argument of this motion, even contended that there is any difference between the
respective laws, as to the person who is the heir at law of the
testator, or who are his next of kin by the statutes of distribution. In this union of opinion between the judges of the circuit court, and the counsel of all parties, thus apparent to this
court, it was not an unreasonable expectation that they would,
at least, have looked at the record, the evidence, the law and
decree, before they would authoritatively decide, that there
was nothing deserving an argument without the averment of
domicil.
The whole case turned upon a question of local law, which
had long been settled by the highest judicial tribunals of Pennsylvania, and sanctioned by the legislature as firmly as any one
principle of her jurisprudence, that the common law of England, as to the descent of property, had, from the charter of
Pennsylvania, been adopted in all cases not specially provided
for by act of assembly. It remained only to examine the legislation of the state, to ascertain whether the present case was
embraced within the provisions of any law, had it been a case
of intestacy, if it was not, then it was an admitted rule, that
the common law governed it.
But as the present is not a case of intestacy, the range of
inquiry is still more narrowed, it turns upon the words of the
will, which is the law of the case, paramount to any other.
Local laws can have no other effect on its construction, than
by their presumed operation on the mind of the testator when
he made his will, as an indication of his intention to refer to
the law of his domicil, defining its terms. Yet, before such

SUPREME COURT
[Harrison and others v. Nixon.]

intention can be inferred, it is a settled maxim of the law, that
it must stand well with the words of the will, it cannot be admitted to vary its plain words, or their settled legal signification.
If these considerations afforded no ground for inducing the
court to give the record an appellate inspection, there are others
which may serve as some apology for the court below, and the
counsel there, as well as here, for overlooking the indispensable
necessity of an averment of domicil, in order to give to either
court jurisdiction over the subject matter of the cause. In the
first place, no such rule is laid down in any book of equity, practice,
or any adjudged case in any court of equity in England or this
country, and it forms no part of their practice, as adopted by
the acts of congress and the seventh rule of this court. In the
next place, if such averment had been required by the ordinary
rules of equity practice, it was necessarily dispensed with, by
the adjudication of this court on the subject of domicil, in a
case of intestacy, which is much stronger than one under the
will, for in the former case the local law applies directly to
the estate of an intestate, as the rule by which it shall be distributed. The law of the situs of the property, the domcil of the
intestate, or of the place of administration, must govern, but
which should be adopted by this court, was elaborately argued
in 1831, in the case of Smith, administrator of Robinson v.
The Union Bank of Georgetown, 5 Peters 518, 523. In that
case, the intestate was born in Maryland, uomiciled inVirginia,
died in Pennsylvania, had personal property in this district,
being a claim upon the government, on which administration
was had here, he died insolvent. The question arose by what
law his estate should be distributed among his creditors; on
which this court decided, that it should be the law of the place
of administration, and not of the domicil, which was the point
directly adjudged, and from which only one judge dissented.
The question of distribution among the next of kin, was not directly before the court, but was noticed in their opinion, from
which the same judge dissented also.
In alluding to the latter question, the words of the court are:
"With regard to the first class of cases, we expect to be understood as not intending to dispose of them directly or incidentally Whenever a case arises upon the distribution of an

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Harrison and others v. Nixon.]

intestate's effects exhibiting a conflict between the laws of the
domuil and those of the situs, it will be time enough to give the
views of this court on the law of that case."
"That personal property has no situs, seems rather a metaphysical position, than a practicaland legal truth."
In noticng the provisions of treaties on this subject, the court

say, "it would seem that such a provision would be wholly
unnecessary, if there existed any international law, by which
the law of tile domicil could be enforced in that regard in tile
country of the situs, or if the fact of locality did not subject
the goods to the laws of the government under which they
were found at the party's death. In point of fact; it cannot be
questioned, that goods thus found within the limits of a sovereign's jurisdiction, are subject to his laws, it would be an
absurdity ?a terms to affirm the contrary." "This necessity of
administering where the debt is to be recovered, effectually
places the application of the proceeds under the control of the
]jws of the state of the administration. And if in any instances the rule is deviated from, it forms,pro hac, an exception,
a voluntary relinquishment of a right countenanced by universal practice, and is of the character of the treaty stipulations
already remarked upon, by which foreign nations surrender
virtually a right, which locality certainly puts in their power."
Against these doctrines, the dissenting judge most earnestly
but in vain remonstrated, insisting that it was settled by the
international law of the civilized world, that personal property
had no situs, that it was distributable by the law of the domicil, and that if these principles were shaken by this court, or
declared to be unsettled, irremediable and utter confusion would
ensue. For it was a subject on which congress could not legislate out of this district, nor the states of this union, or foreign
nations beyond their respective territorial limits, the inevitable
result of which would be, that the law of distribution of an
intestate's estate would be different in every state and country,
in which he owned any bona notabilia. That the court having decided, that a pecuniary claim on the government of the
United States, was bona notabilia in this district, subject to distribution by the local law; it followed, that if the intestate had
debts due to him in different states, or owned a part of the
funded debt of different governments, or of the stocks of local

SUPREME COURT.
[Harrison and others v. Nixon.]

corporations, there could be no uniform rule of distribution,
either among creditors or distributees.
But the result of the most deliberate consideration of this
court, is that which has been solemnly adjudicated and promulgated as the rule and guide for all the inferior tribunals of
the United States. It would not have comported with the
judicial duty of the dissenting judge, presiding in the circuit
court of Pennsylvania, to have declared to the profession and
suitors, that his overruled opinion must be taken as the law of
the case. Had the counsel of the parties complainants moved
that court to dismiss the bill, or petitions filed by themselves, or,
after a final decree, had asked that it should be declared to be
an extra-judicial act, because the domicil of a testator (not of an
intestate), had been averred only as a conclusion to be drawn
from an express averment of citizenship, the circuit court would
have been bound to have decided, that it was unnecessary, according to the decision in Robinson v. The Bank, for having
settled that domicil was wholly immaterial in distribution
among creditors, and when they declared, that "we expect to
be understood as not disposing, directly or incidentally," of the
question of distribution among next of kin, the dissenting
judge would have felt it his duty not to have disappointed an
expectation, not only so reasonable, but which he would have
-obeyed as a mandate of paramount authonty The more especially, as the whole reasoning of the court of the last resort,
went to negative the materiality of domicil in any case, but
most emphatically was the dissenting judge bound by his every
duty, not to declare the law of the domicil to be the law of the
case, in face of the distinct proposition of the court-" that
personal property has no situs, forms rather a metaphysical position, than a practical and legal truth," and thus substitute
,metaphysics for law as the rule of his judicial action.
At the time of rendering their final decree, the circuit court
for the Pennsylvaniadistrict could not have foreseen that with,out overruling the decision of this court made in 1831, by the
same high authority which pronounced it, when no question
was presented to this court by counsel touching the matter, or
argued by them after the suggestion had fallen from the bench.
It should now appear to the same judges, to be a principle of
law so manifest, so clearly and'decisvely settled, as to make the

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Harrison and others v. Nixon.]

most solemn decree of inferior courts against executors mere
nullities, because the pleadings on which they were founded
did not contain an express averment of the domicil of the testator. Although the bill and answer contained express averments
of the citizenship of the testator, the place where he made his will,
the place of -hsdeath, of administration,and the situs of the property. As these averments were in strict conformity with the
decision and reasoning of this court in Robinson v The Bank,
it could not have been thought, that there remained in the,
vitals of the record, a disease fatal to the action of the circuit
court upon thmatters in issue.
Had it been objected, that the situs of the property, or the
place of the testator's death or of administration, had not been
averred, the necessary amendment would have been made,
though the pleadings had averred the domicil, that must have
been deemed immaterial according to the then doctrine of this
court, which was that personal property had a situs without
any reference to the domicil of an intestate. It follows that
if an averment of the situs was indispensable, that of the
domicil could not be, as the rules of distribution would be different by the local laws. And as the law of the situs was the
rule, when these pleadings and issue were made up, and the
final decree rendered, it would most certainly have stood the
test of this objection, though it must have been reversed had
the situs not been averred, notwithstanding the domicil had
been, however explicitly Yet now it seems that a record containing an averment of the situs in all its bearings on the case,
is mere blank paper, because the domicil is averred only by
way of inference or conclusion from facts stated.
In 1831 the matenality of the situs was "a legaland practical
truth," that of the donucil was "a metaphysicalposition," an absurdity in terms, in the opinion of all the judges of this court,
but one. In 1835 the materiality of the situs, is the metaphysical position, and that of the domwil, the legal and practical
truth. This radical difference between the promulgated law
of this court, on the same question arising at these periods, presents a conflictio legum which the circuit court of Pennsylvania
were not bound to anticipate, the consequences of which it is
hard to visit upon suitors in that court by drawing a sponge
over all the proceedings in this cause, to their great delay and
vOL. xx.-3 Q

SUPREME COURT.
[Harrison and others v. Nixon.]

injury, though they were had and conducted according to the
solemn opinion of this court as to the law of the case, when
the suit began and ended. ,tt that time the judges of the circuit court bad for their guide no better rulesfor their decion,
than those laid down in 1831, and the practice of this court at
the same term, which to one of thejudges at least, is some
apology for not exercising his legal acumen, in discovering a
fatal defect ofjurisdiction over a cause, in which, it now appears,
he has assumed an unwarranted power to render a decree on
the merits. It is his consolation to find, not only in the solemn
judgment in Robinson v. The Bank, the reasons for overlooking the indispensable necessity of an averment of domwil, but
the fact, that in two other cases in the same term this court
had practically decided it to be unnecessary.
The case of Backhause v. Patton, adm. cum test. ann. de
bores non of James Hunter, was a bill in equity to compel an
account of the personal estate of the testator, and'for its due
distribution, the bill averred the testator to be a citizen of Virg-nza, but contained no averment of hisdomnwil. 5 Peters 160, &c.
The case of Page v. Lloyd, executor of Hanbury, and Patton, adm. cum test. ann. of Mann Page, was on a a similar
bill, containing an account of the situs of Mr Mann Page's personal property in two counties in Virginia, but no averment of
either his citizenship or domicil. 5 Peters 304. This court took
cognizance -of both cases on certificates of division from the
circuit court of Virginia, and finally decided on all the matters
so certified, without a doubt at the bar, or on the bench, of the
regularity of the record, and as the rules of its decision are
the same, whether a cause comes up on a certificate, or on appeal, these must have been deemed records on which it could
act judicially. It is not doubted that a further examination
among the records of this court, on appeals from other circuit
courts, in cases of equity against executors, will furnish additional proof that if the practice of that of Pennsylvaniahas
been in violation of all rules, it has the fullest sanction an the
course of this court through all time, and this is the first time
it has annulled a decree for such cause.
It is equally unknown to the fundamental principles on
which it is organized as an appellate court, which in this case
has not exercised its powers as directed in its constitution, by

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Harrison and others v. Nixon.]

re-examining and reversing the decree, and rendering such a
one as ought to have been given. Its power has been exerted
on a summary motion, not on an assignment of errors the
decree and all preceding acts of the circuit court have been
declared null and void collaterally, not for errors in the record
or decree, for this court would not re-examine either, nor have
they, in remanding the cause, directed what final decision
shall be made. The only exception in the twenty-fourth section of the judiciary act, which authorizes any departure from
the injunction to render such decree as ought to have been
made, is, "where the reversal is in favour of the petitioner in
the original suit, and the matter to be decreed is uncertain, in
which case, they shall remand the cause for a final decision."
But this case does not come within the exception, for though the
reversal is in favour of petitioners in the original suit, the matter decreed was certain, it was, therefore, no case to be remanded, though if it was, the court has not remanded "the
cause for a final decision." Its mandate is a peremptory order
to the circuit court, to amend the pleadings from the beginfing, to admit proofs of new matter and new parties, in one
word, to make a new case throughout, and concludes with
ordering, "such other proceedings are to be had in the said
cause by the said court, as to law, justice and equity shall
appertain."
It had, heretofore, been thought to be the province of a court
of orginal jurisdiction in equity, to decide on amendments in
their legal discretion, or according to the act of congress with
which this court never interfered, that after publication, and
before a decree, the admission of new proofs, new matter or
new parties, was discretionary with the chancellor on a petition presented, that after a decree made, but before enrolment, neither could be introduced into a cause, unless by a
supplemental bill in the nature of a bill of review, nor after
enrolment, unless by a bill of review on newly discovered evidence, filed by parties or privies to the original suit. It was
also believed, that there was no distinction better established
by the law of equity, than the different effect of defective
pleadings, when demurred or excepted to in the court below,
and when they are unnoticed till the cause is removed for review in an appellate court. And it has hitherto remained

SUPREME COURT.
[Harrison and others v. Nixon.]

equally well settled, that no decree will be reversed, even on a
bill of review, for any new discovered evidence, unless in a
case where a new trial would be awarded by a court at law
But if the decision now made, is to be hereafter considered
as a precedent for the future action of this court on appeals in
equity cases, it portends a fearful change in the rules which
have heretofore drawn a line between the originaland appellate
jurisdiction of the courts of the United States, the consequences
of which cannot be foreseen. The practical effect of this judgment and mandate is an assumption of the province of the former,
not only as to the rules of practice, pleadings, amendments,
parties, proofs, and issues, which depend mainly on the exercise of discretion , but is giving to an appeal from a final
decree, the effect of a special demurrer to a bill, an exception to an
answer, as well as of an original supplemental or bill of remew, in
all their respective operations on the case. This appellate
court does not decide upon the case or decree appealed from, it
orders an entirely new one to be made, by an utter prostration
of every thing in the record, from the original bill throughout.
It does not remand this cause for a final decision by the circuit court, it first divests it of all the attributes and requisites
of a case for a final decree, and then commands that a case
shall be made up for their original jurisdiction, as a suit in
equity, under positive directions, which leave no discretion in
the exercise of their jurisdiction over the matters referred to in
the mandate.
The reasons assigned by the court for these proceedings are
worthy of the most serious consideration. They decide that
an averment of domicil is indispensable, because it might indicate the intention to give the property to such person as would
be the heir at law by the law of one country, who would not
be the heir by the law of the other, but adds, " w e do not say
what is the case." "That the country by whose laws the will
is to be interpreted, should be first ascertained, and then .the
inquiry is naturally presented what the provisions of those laws
are." They also direct an averment of the domicil "at the
time of the will being made," " at the testator's death," and "in the
intermediate time?' (a period of thirty-three years) , yet declare
that they do not mean to express any opinion as to the effect on the
will, of the domwil being at a different place at these different times.

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Harrison and others v. Nixon.]

Whence then arises the necessity of the averments q The
natural order of inquiry would seem to be, whether there was
any difference between the law of England and Pennsylvania,
in the interpretation of the will, and next, whether the will
should be construed by the lawof the domicil at the death of the
testator, or at any other time, for the materiality of the averments depends entirely on the solution of these two questions.
If the law of both countries was the same at all times, the
averments are useless. It is surely a strange ground for uprooting a cause from its foundation by an appellate court,
merely because the original bill does not contain an averment
of a fact which, by possibility, may be materialas the evidence
of intention, or the existence of that fact at a time when it
could have no possible bearing on the will.
When the new case now directed to be made up, shall have
been decided by the circuit court, and come here again on
appeal, it is to be presumed that this court will then deign to
inquire by what law this will must be interpreted and what the
provisions of that law are. It is also to be hoped, that by that
time they will feel prepared to instruct the circuit court of Pennsylvania, whether their next final decree shall be in conformity
to the law of the testator's domicil, when he made hus will, wheni
he died, or at what periodof the thirty-three years which tntervened,
not omitting an explicit opinion upon the preliminary question,
whether the domicil has any bearing on the will. As the
mandate now is, that court is ordered to proceed "as to law,
equity and justice shall appertain," but are uninstructed by
what law or rule the justice or equity of the case is to be ascertained, other than the law which the testator has prescribed in
his will. The predicament in which that court is now placed,
is a most unpleasant one, their past errors have been so gross
and palpable, as to make their whole proceedings nullities,
yet they remain in the dark as to the means of correcting
them, the averment of domicil will lead to no new evidence
or issue, not in the present record, and no new question of law
or fact can arise in that respect. When a new case shall have
been presented, it will differ from the present only in this one
averment, which, by the admission of this court, cannot have
the most remote effect on the decree, unless on the contingency

SUPREME COURT
EHarrison and others v. Nixon.]

of a conflictio legurn, which is now as little ascertained as before
this reversal.
If the action of this court had stopped here, the embarrassment of the circuit court would be sufficiently great, in being
precluded from the exercise of all discretion in the proceedings,
preparatory to a final decree, by the peremptory orders now
given on all matters for their ultimate judgment; and as to
that, left without any directions how to avoid the recurrence
of the same errors which have caused great and expensive
delay. There is, however, another ground assumed by this
court, which is infinitely interesting to all persons whose rights
may be affected by its appellate powers in equity cases, as well
as to all inferior courts on general principles; but most emphatically to the judges of that court whose proceedings have been
thus roughly handled in the opinion delivered. After the
direction to make the averments, the court remark, "it appears
from the motions which have been made to this court, as well
as from certain proceedings in the court below, which have
been laid before us in support thereof, that there are certain
claimants of this bequest, asserting themselves to be heirs at
law, whose claims have not been adjudicated upon in the court
below, on account of their having been presented at a late
period." "As the cause must go back for further proceedings,
and must be again opened for new allegations and proofs, these
claimants will have an opportunity of presenting and proving
their claims in the cause, and we are of opinion they ought to
be let into the cause for this purpose."
The "motion" alluded to, was to revise the whole proceedings in the case, made by the counsel of persons who were not
parties orprvies in the originalsuit, or to the appeal, the "certain
proceedings in the court below" were had, on a petition asking
for leave to file a bill of review by those persons, for newly discovered evidence, and to make themselves parties. Leave was
refused, for the reasons given at length in the opinion delivered
by the circuit court, some garbled extracts from which, the
counsel who urged the objection taken to the want of the averment of domicil, not the counsel who made the "motion" referred
to by the court, thought proper to read in the course of his argument. Had the whole opinion been read by the counsel or
the court, they had seen the reasons of the refusal to permit

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Harrison and others v. Nixon.]

the bill of review to be filed, it would have been most apparent, not only that it was not because the petition "was presented at too late a period," but the circuit court expressly
declared that the petition was presented within due time after
the final decree, had there been no other objections. The
grounds of the objection to the petition were, that those claimants never asked to be admitted into the cause, till after the
final decree, and the pendency of the suit in this court on the
present appeal, that the circuit court could not reverse their final
decree in any other way, than by a bill of review for error apparent or new matter. That such bill lies only in favour of
partiesor privzes to the final decree, in neither of which characters could those persons stand, that their case was not
supported by the requisite affidavits, that the matter relied on
was not new, or newly discovered, but bad been relied on in bills
in the courts of chancery and exchequer, in England, years before the petition for review, and by the same parties, that even
if new, it was not competent to procure a decree in their favour.,
that with full knowledge of the state of the fund, and the pendency of this suit, they had been guilty of such gross and
unaccountable negligence, that no court of equity could afford
them any relief on a bill of review, and if they had any remedy,
it must be sought in some other mode.
The circuit court could not adjudicate on their claim, before
it was presented for adjudication, and when so presented they
had no longer any power of adjudication over it, but on a bill
to reverse the original decree by review for error apparent, or
on an original billwhich the petitioners had a right to file. The
bill of review for new matter, is a matter of favour and discretion, which, in the case presented, they could not permit without the utter disregard of the oldest and best established rules
of the law of equity; whereupon the parties filed their original
bill, on which there has not been time for any proceedings to be
had. It is, therefore, a gratuitous assumption, that "those
claims were not adjudicated on in the court below," "on account
of their having been presented at a late period ;'" unless this
court intended to refer to the gross delay of the parties before
the final decree, and the settled principles of law which forbade that court from letting the claimants into the case on a
bill Qf review for the causes assigned. The judge who gave

SUPREME COURT.
[Harrison and others v. Nixon.]

the opinion of the circuit court, feels bound to repel the imputation which would otherwise rest upon the "certain proceedings
in the court below" as wholly erroneous, and unfounded, on any
other construction which may be given to that part of the
opinion of this court containing the allusion to those proceedings. It is also his right and duty to Inquire, by what rule of
law, a court of mere appellate power overfinal decrees of a
circuit court, assume appellate jurisdiction over a subject
matter not contained or referred to in the record of the cause
before them on appeal I By what power this court can review
the proceedings of that court, on a petition for leave to file a
bill of review to reverse their own decree, after an appeal, on
new discovered matter, which rests exclusively in their discretion as to granting or refusing it, and especially after the
parties had acquiesced in the decision and had adopted another remedy't And above all, by what warrant this court can
act on an appeal by the parties now before them, rnfavour of persons who are utter strangersto the record and suit, who, being neither parties or privies, can be heard only by an original bill
filed in a court of original equity junsdiction
The knowledge that these persons had desired and had been
refused admission into the cause, not having been derived
from the record, was wholly extra udiczal, and is so admitted by
this court, yet it is made the basis of judicial action, and its
peremptory mandate to the court below to admit them as parties, and hear their proofs. Thus indirectly and collaterally,
but most effectually reversingthe refusal to permit them to file
a bill of review, and giving them not only all the benefits
which they could have desired from a bill of review actually
filed, but of an actual reversal, nay, much more substantial
benefits. On the hearing of a bill of review, the plaintiffs are
confined to the new matter set forth in their bill, and this
would have been the utmost extent of the relief which
could have been given them had they appealed to this court,
obtained a reversal of the proceedings in the circuit court on
their petition, and the case had been remanded, with direc-

tions to permit the bill of rdview to be filed, and its merits to
be adjudicated. Whereas they now come into the cause, as
original parties, with the same liberty as to proof, as those who
have been contending for years. They are likewise fully

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Harrison and others v. Nixon.]

absolved from every requisition, and duty enjoined by the law
of equity, as the indispensable conditions of their admission as
parties to a suit after a final decree, as well as from all the
consequences of gross and long continued negligence. All
this has been done in their favour, without any appeal by them,
but on information laid before this court, in support of a motion which they would not listen to, and on which they could not
act directly in virtue of their appellate power, consistently with
the acknowledged doctrines of courts of equity, or the directions of the judiciary act, that is an appeal by the party aggneved by afinal decree. In the present course, then, of this
court, in relation to those persons who are no parties to this
appeal, as also to those who are proper parties, it must be
asked what brings any decree or other proceeding of a circuit
court in equity, within any power of this, if not an appeal I
what the act of reversal necessarily implies, if not jurisdiction of the case and its exercise'q or what is the nature of that
jurisdiction, if it is not appellatel and what respect is paid
to the judiciary act, if this appellate jurisdiction is not exercised by re-examining the record and proceeding, according to
the directions of the law which confers the power, and is the
only authority by which any proceeding of a circuit court can
be reviewed, or its final decrees be reversed I
As the court has reversed and annulled every proceeding
which has been had, directly or collaterally, in this suit,
whether it related to the rights of parties, privies, or strangers
to the record, to the subject matters of appeal, or those which
have come to their knowledge without judicial information
Inasmuch as their whole action has been on a summary motion to reverse, solely for the want of an averment in the bill,
which the court most cautiously avoid deciding to be material
to the merits of the cause, otherwise than in the event of an
unascertained and possible conflict of laws not asserted to exist,
and wholly refuse to decide any one matter put in issue by the
parties, as to either law or fact. The mandate of reversal must
be referred to some other than their appellate power, as granted
by the constitution, defined, limited and regulated by congress, for it cannot be pretended to be within the legititimate
scope of any construction which can be given to the words
"appellate jurisdiction," which necessarily requires re-examiVOL. x.-3 R

SUPREME COURT.
[Harrison and others v. Nixon.]
nation of what had been before adjudicated in the court below.
If the jurisdiction now exercised is original, it is only necessary
to refer to the decision of this court in Marbury v. Madison, to
pronounce it unconstitutional. Be it, however, appellate or
original, it is incompatible with the organised laws of this
court, with the principles and usages of law in those appellate
tribunals from which we have adopted our rules, and can have
no sanction from precedent, unless by some silent unadjudicated practice, which may have crept into our proceedings
without a due consideration, and which has been often decided,
is not binding as authority, and is never too late to correct
when its errors are discovered. 8 Wheat. 821, 322.
There is no power so dangerous as that which can be traced
to no definite or authoritative source, or which is exercised
without a reference to some fixed principles, it is in the nature
of that which is assumed by any department of government,
to be capable of no other limitation than such as it may choose
to prescribe to itself, while that which is conferred by the constitution or statutes, is defined, limited and regulated in its
exercise to the cases specified, and in the mode prescribed.
Such are the appellate powers of the circuit and supreme courts
of the United States, they are of limited junsdiction-necessarily incompetent to act by any prerogative or inherent power,
as the creatures of the judiciary act, they are not at liberty to
exercise any power over the proceedings of infenor courts, by
any general supervisory power, such as has been assumed by
the king's bench and house of lords. Their supervision is only
by writ of error, or appeal, and such writs as congress have
authorised them to use, so that in whatever case they act as
an appellate court, it is,by special authority, and can exercise
no other than what is appropriately appellate, as contradistinguished from original jurisdiction.
In the present case, there seems to be a mixture and excess
of both, whether the mandate and opinion are tested by the
rules of other courts of appeal, or the acts of congress.
The house of lords act as an appellate court by their own
authority without an act of parliament, but have never assumed any original jurisdiction on appeals in equity causes, or
reversed the decree of a chancellor, because an issue before
him will not enable the lords to make a satisfactory decree,
they remand the cause for amendment; 1 BI. P C. new series

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Harrison and others v. Nixon.]

471, 477, or give the party leave to withdraw his appeal, 2
Bligh P C. 392, S. P 12 Wh. 12.
Such a course would have been peculiarly proper in this case:
the only irregularity complained of on this motion, was by the
appellants' own fault, in not making an averment in their own
petitions, which is admitted was amendable, and is so decided
by the court, and it cannot be denied that it was competent
to them to remand the cause for this purpose, 12 Wheat. 12,
or permit the appellants to withdraw their appeal, to enable
them to amend their own petitions, if the court deemed it indispensable to make' a final decree on its merits. But it is
most confidently asserted to be against all rules, and without
precedent, to reverse a decree and declare all previous proceedings void for such a cause, no court of original jurisdiction in
equity, can annul its own decrees without a bill of review
even for error apparent, this has been the law from the time
of Lord Bacon.
This court has no power to revise its own decrees after the
term expires, unless for clerical errors, it can exercise no original jurisdiction in this case, and that which has been exercised is not appellate, by any rules which define what appellate power is, and its lawful course. So far from adjudicating
any one matter appealed from, or point of law or fact presented
by counsel, they have left every right and claim of the parties
wholly unnoticed, and though they have annulled every proceeding of the circuit court, have not adjudged any one order,
or their final decree, to be erroneous in law or fact. But have
done it for the ostensible purpose of inserting in the bill and
petitions, an averment of a fact which would have been directed
of course, in the circuit court, on suggestions of either party,
and solely to meet a contingent question of local law, which
that court, in their solemn opinion, declared could not arise in
the cause, and which the counsel on both sides argued did not
exist, and would not be raised.
There is only one rule by which such a proceeding can be
held to be the legitimate exercise of appellate power, "sic
volo sic jubeo stat pro ratione voluntas;" the opinion of the
court precludes any other conclusion, for if they had appellate
jurisdiction, they were bound to give the record appellate inspection and consideration, not having done so, their opinion

SUPREME COURT.
[Harrison and others v. Nixon.]

and mandate is their judgment, that there was no case before
them for their appellate action.
This presents another view of this case which is alarming
as a precedent. This court has no more power to declare and
consider the proceedings of a circuit court null and void, than
a district, circuit or slate court has, unless they are before them
by an appeal, according to the act of congress, excepting such
a case, the powers of all these courts are equal. All are bound
to respect a judgment till appealed from, however erroneous,
while any one may disregard it, even as prima facie evidence
of any fact professed to be adjudicated, if the judgment is void.
If the course of this court is consistent with the rules of law,
then the final decree of the circuit court would be as much a
nullity after the expiration of the five years limited for an appeal, as it is now, and if a nullity in this court, it must be so
in every other. If the want of an averment of a testator's
domicil in a bill of equity nullifies all subsequent proceedings
against an executor for an account, there are many void decrees on the records of this court, which state courts may
declare so by the same power with which this court has acted
in this case.
This rule of action must be taken to be, that the bill must
contain direct averments to meet every possible contingency
which may arise in the proofs, as to questions of fact or law,
that it is not sufficient to aver a fact, from which the necessary conclusions may be drawn, though the parties have taken
issue upon it in both courts, and thus admitted that there was
a proper case for the exercise of their respective jurisdiction.
The mandate admits of no other conclusion, than that the
action of the circuit court on a bill or petitions like the present,
is wholly without legitimate power or jurisdiction, and their
whole proceedings "cora m non judice ;" if so, it follows that
their decree is not a judicial act, entitled to the least respect
in any court. If this court can declare it void without appellatere-examination, it is because it is an extra-judicial act, and
surely no one can contend that the extra-judicial proceedings
of this court are entitled to any more respect. As if they
should award a mandamus to a secretary of state, reverse the
,judgment of a state court in a case not within the twentyfifth section of the judiciary act, or take cognizance of an on-

JANUARY TERM 1835.
-

[Harrison and others v. Nixon.]

ginal bill in equity between individuals. Let it once become
a settled rule, that the want of an averment like the present
is fatal to jurisdiction, the proceedings of no court can stand
the test of a scrutiny so severe as has been applied to these.
With the precedent now established, the judges of state
courts will look with microscopic eyes at our records, as well
as those from other states, and be sure to find, at least to their
own satisfaction, some defect which might have been fatal on
special demurrer or abatement, and in their turn declare our
decrees and judgments void, by the same summary power. Nor
will the consequences stop here, the federal courts will exercise the same power over the judgments of state courts, without
appeal or writ of error, their proceedings, in cases not within
their judicial cognizance, are as much nullities as those of a
circuit court, and may be declared void by this court on the
same rule as is now adopted. Let the directions of the judiciary
act be nullified by following up this precedent, the appellate
power of this court becomes absolute, arbitrary and illimitable;
and all other courts may be justified in following the high
example.
There is yet another view which must be taken of the judgment now rendered. The court has ordered the averment of
domicil to be made at the death of the testator in 1824, at the
making the will in 1791, "and in the intermediate period, (if
there was any change) so that the elements of a full decision
may be finally brought before the court." Each averment being
then considered as equally indispensable, it must be deemed
that the omission of either is equally fatal to the proceedings
of the circuit court, each must, therefore, be considered as
having a vital bearing on the construction of the will, or there
would not have been a positive order to insert them. Such
an order may indeed afford "the elements of decision," but
must protract it till many of the parties to the suit shall have
passed away When the fact of residence, at different times
during thirty-three years, shall have been ascertained in the
circuit court, they must then decide in what place the law
adjudges the domicil to have been at the time of each change
of residence, then arises the question, by what law the will
is to be interpreted. As the case of Robinson's Administrator
v. The Bank, is now overruled, the law of the situs of the pro-

SUPREME COURT.
[Harrison and others v. Nixon.]

perty of administration or making the will, which is Philadelphia, is not to be regarded, the law of the domicil must govern,
but the court are left in utter darkness as to the rule by which
to apply that law, should the domicil appear to have been in
different places at different times. As the circuit court has
hitherto been so unfortunate as to have been ignorant of the
effect of the domicil, in relation to a will of personal property,
and as one of the judges has the misfortune to dissent again on
the subject, it is much to be feared that, as there may have been,
possibly, three or more places of domicil in so long a period, at
least one, if not more, final decrees may be reversed, because
the proper one may not have been designated in their opinion.
Hitherto the law of the domwil at the death of the testator, has
been deemed the rule, but this point must now be considered
as unsettled, or the court would not have directed its averment
at any other time, as indispensable to a full decision of the
cause, as it remains for this court, at some future period, to
declare -the law on points so doubtful, great delay must necessarily take place, before it can be known by what law the will
must be construed, next, what the provisions of that law are;
and lastly, what ought to have been the first inquiry-whether
the domicil of the testator is, or in any possible event can be, in any
way, a materal question m the cause.
Before the decision of this case, it was considered to be a
settled principle, that a final decree in chancery was of equal
effect as a judgment at law, till reversed. 6 Wheat. 113.
That the sufficiency of an averment in a declaration, bill, or
petition, was a question of merits examinable on demurrer, at
the hearing, on a motion in arrest of judgment, or by writ of
error or appeal, but in no case was a question of jurisdiction,
unless for the want of parties or a proper cause of action.
That if there was a substantial cause of action alleged, all
defects in the pleadings were cured by a verdict or decree, if
not pleaded or demurred to for cause, and that no appellate
court could reverse a final judgment or decree, for any error in
either, on the ground of an insufficient averment, if the plaintiff's case was one that would entitle him to a judgment on a
general demurrer.
So the law was taken by the counsel for the appellants
themselves, and so it would have remained, had not the court

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Harrison and others v. Nixon.]

prevented them from arguing the points in their printed bnef,
and yielding to the suggestion of one of the judges, decided,
that they would examine no question in the record, nor hear
any argument on any point except one, which was not stated
at the bar in either court, and may have no bearing on the rights
of any party. This is another innovation upon the settled
uniform course of all appellate courts, which makes this precedent an alarming one.
It is an established rule founded on the soundest principle of
justice, that a party shall not be permitted to reverse a judgment or decree, on an objection not made in the court below
Upon an objection being made in the house of lords, that an
account had not been taken in the court of chancery, and it
appearing that none had been called for previously, by the
party making the objection, lord Eldon observed, "if this cause
had been heard inthe court of chancery or exchequer in England, no client could have induced a counsel to make that a
point, at the bar of this house, under such circumstances, because such counsel having been previously conversant with
the cause, would have known that as it was not made below,
it could not be made by way of appeal. Had this cause been
heard before me, and had I presided during the argument of
the appeal against it, under the circumstances that have
occurred, I would not have allowed counsel to make the point
at your lordships' bar." 2 Sch. and Lefr. 712, 710, 718. When
the opportunity of objection is passed by in the court below, it
is taken to have been waived, 2 Sch. and Lefr. 713, 12
Wheat. 18, S. P 11 Wheat. 209, 210, 211, 7 Peters 98,
2 Binn. 168, 12 Serg. and Rawle 103, unless the defect in the
record is one which could not have been cured, or amended in
the court below, if the objection had been made before it was
removed. 4 J. R. 602, 14 J. R. 560, 16 J. R. 353, 18 J. R.
558, 559, 2 Dow. P C. 72. The names and judicial reputation of the American jurists, who have ever acted on this rule,
and of lords Eldon and Redesdale, may with propriety be referred to, and invoked in support of a dissenting judge; and the
rules and decisions of this court, till this time, may also be
called to his aid.
Had the present appellants demurred to the bill, objected in
the pleadings, or at the hearing, on the ground now taken,

SUPREME COURT.
[Harrison and others v. Nixon.]

the defect, if any, would have been cured in the court below,
by an amendment without affecting the proceedings, but
here, it would seem, that there can be no amendment ordered
without annulling every thing heretofore done in the cause.
If it was so intended by the appellants, they have delayed
this objection most profitably for the purposes of vexation, it
has been received under circumstances which would have
prevented it being listened to in any other appellate court, but
which have entitled it to favour here. It is not made by the
respondent, whom alone it concerned to reverse erroneous proceedings by the appellants, who were complainants, against
him, if he chooses to waive defects in their petition, they
could not be injured thereby, they did not ask for an amendment in theirs, or the petition of the party who obtained a decree in his favour. The appellants asked a reversal and a decree in their favour, they have obtained a reversal indeed, but
it is of every step they have taken to submit their rights to the
final adjudication of this court, the cause is open to indefinite
litigation, by each of the three hundred claimants to the fund
in the hands of the executor, as well as those now ordered to
be added to the suit, who may be not the least troublesome,
at least to the appellants. A principle, too, has been established, by which each claimant is permitted during the five
years allowed for appeal after a final decree, to reserve his objection to the pleadings till a convenient time, and then obtain
reversals on a summary motion, for defects that are amendable on application in the discretion of the circuit court, by the
general rules of courts of equity and law, and by right, under
the provisions of the judiciary act.
There can be no course so utterly subversive of equity, nay,
of common justice, as to hear parties in an appellate court, on

points made under circumstances like the present, it is one to
which I can never consent, and against which I shall deem it
a duty to suitors to protest on all similar occasions. I will
never, while sitting in this court, reverse a decree upon objections which a court of chancery or exchequer, on a cause regularly before them, would not in the exercise of their original
jurisdiction, or the house of lords or the court of errors and
appeals in New York would not permit counsel to argue on
appeal. Nor will I in any way admit, that any appellate

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Harrison and others v. Nixon.]

court can, in the legitimate exercise of their jurisdiction, render a judgment of reversal on any ground, on which they
would not be bound to hear an argument of counsel. It is a
great hardship on parties, to have their judgments set aside on
technical objections raised at the bar, but the grievance will
become intolerable, if the course of the court should be such
as to do it when they are first suggested from the bench.
Let an objection like the present, however, come whence it
may, I consider it as purely technical, which I cannot sustain
consistently with the respect due to the solemn and unanimous
decisions of this court in Harding v. Handy, and Renner v.
The Bank of Columbia, with many others founded on the
most immutable maxims of the law They settle the rule,
that the conclusion of fact drawn from a circumstantial averment, is sufficient to support a decree in equity, and forbid
me from disregarding the evidence which has been admitted
without objection and now formspart of the record before me
for judicial inspection, merely because the subject matter of
that evidence was not averred in the bill or petitions of the
claimants. And when to this high and unquestioned authority is added, the 32d rule of this court, I find safe rules for
my guide, which would be violated by any sanction given to
any proceeding in opposition thereto. That rule is, "in all
cases in equity, &c., no objection shall hereafter be allowed to
the admissibility of any deposition, deed, grant, or other exhibit, found in the record as evidence, unless objection was taken
in the court below and entered of record, but the same shall
otherwise be deemed to have been admitted by consent." I
feel bound to examine all the evidence in this record, as it is
found without an objection, ,and as counsel andpartiesare precluded from now making any, it is my duty to give it its full
effect on the question of domicil, as well as any other which
may be relevant to the cause, any other course, would, in
my opinion, annul this rule, which counsel must respect, and
which I had thought the court would adhere to, by hearing
an argument on a point arising on the evidence, made by the
counsel of the appellants in the brief presented for our judicial
action.
The order for the admission of new parties deserves some
notice on account of the manner in which it was made, which
VOL. ix.M-3 S

SUPREME COURT.
[Harrison and others v. Nixon.]

is believed to be unprecedented. Their names were not in
the record, they were in no way before the court, but had employed counsel, who were desirous of being heard as anrnc
curwz, in order to point out some irregularities which, as they
conceived, would authorize the reversal of the decree, so as to
permit them to make an application to become parties, stating
at the same tine, that the circuit court had very properly re,
This court,
fused such application by a bill of review
promptly and unanimously refused to hear them in support of
their motion, yet have granted what they would not permit to
be moved for by the counsel of the new parties, and of course
without motion, for the counsel of the appellants who signed
the brief as representing three individuals and others, on being
called on by the counsel for the appellees in open court to state
for whom they appeared, declined an answer. In the circuit
court it may not be within the line of duty to inquire, by what
authority, and on whose application, these parties have been
ordered to be admitted as litigants in the cause, so far as respects one of the judges, lie will obey the mandate. But in
this court he may, and does make the inquiry respectfully, but
as a matter of right, and fearlessly insists, that it has been
done in violation of the best established principles of the law
of appellate courts. As the court would not hear the motion
of the counsel of these parties, they could not be judicially
informed that they desired admission into the cause, afortiori
they could not judicially decide, whether their case was one
which gave them a right to admission. Their judgment and
mandate have therefore been given on extrajudicial knowledge,
such as no appellate court can receive or act upon, as it was
wholly dehors the record, and related to no party to the appeal,
or any thing appealed from.
In issuing their order, founded on such knowledge as they
chose to receive, the court must have taken a very partial view
of the papers presented to them for their collateral inspection,
had they been judicially examined, or their contents known, it
would have been apparent that the case deserved some deliberation at least. By their own admission, these parties bad full
knowledge, that the fund they claimed, was in the hands of
the executor in Pennsylvania, yet their first application to be
admitted as parties to this suit, was ten years after the death of

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Harrison and others v. Nixon.]

the testator, and nearly six months after the final decree.
That after the failure of their petition for a bill of review, they
had filed their original bill in the circuit court, having previously
applied to the orphan's court of Philadelphia county (which is
a court of equity and of record, before whom the administration account was in a course of settlement) for an order of distribution in their favour.
This court also knew judicially, for it appeared in the answer of the executor in this case, that he had interpleaded and
prayed the protection of the court, for which purpose they had
made an order (also in the record) that all claimants of the
fund who did not appear by a given day and present their
claims, should be barred-thereafter, which order was sanctioned by the practice and rules of all courts of equity. These
parties suffered the time to elapse long before they thought
proper to make any claim, without in anywaydenying notice of
the pendency of the suit, or accounting for their delay in applying to become parties before the final decree.
If any court could be justified in admitting them afterwards
in a case circumstanced like this, it most assuredly could be
only by the exercise of original jurisdiction, by bill of review,
and not by any appellate power over this record, these parties
were not and could not be appellants from a final decree to
which they were not party nor privy, nor could this court
lawfully reverse the decree on new matter, or for any cause
appropriate to a bill of review As to these persons, there was
no case in this court, it could have no appellate jurisdiction to
hear and determine on any thing, and the proceeding was
wholly coram nonjudice, unless it could exercise original jurisdiction over the parties and the subject matter, as a case originating in this court.
Thus considered, I feel it a duty to declare that the mandate to the circuit court, ordering these persons to be made
parties, is without any authority of principle or precedent,
and although I shall obey it in that court as the command of
a court of the last resort, yet in my best judgment, feel constrained to pronounce it inconsistent with the best established
rules and usages of law, and a violation of the constitution of
an appellate court.

SUPREME COURT.
[Harrison and others v. Nixon.]

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of ihe record from the circuit court of the United States for the district
of Pennsylvania, and was argued by counsel, on considetation
whereof, it is ordered, adjudged and decreed, that the decree
of the said circuit court in the premises be, and hereby is reversed and annulled, and that the cause be remanded to the
said circuit court for further proceedings, with directions to
the said court to allow the bill and the petitions of the claimants to be amended, and the answers and pleadings also to be
amended to conform thereto, and proofs to the new matter also
to be taken, and with further directions to allow any other
person or persons, not now parties to the proceedings, who shall
claim title to the funds in controversy as heir or heirs at law
or representatives of the testator, to present their claims respectively beforethe said court, and to make due proofs thereof,
and to become parties to the proceedings, for the due establishment and adjudication thereof. But the proofs already taken
in the cause are to be deemed admissible evidence in regard to
all such persons, not now parties, who shall claim title as aforesaid, and become parties in the cause under this order, and
such other proceedings are to be had in the said cause by the
said court, as to law, equity and justice shall appertain.

