378

SUPREME COURT

THE BANK OF THE UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR V
HERBERT G. WAGGENER, GEORGE WAGLEY AND ALEXANDER MILLER.
The office of the Bank of the United States at Lexington, Kentucky, in
February 1822, held a large amount of notes of the Bank of Kentucky,
which had been received in the usual course of business, at the full value
expressed on the face of them, as equivalent to gold and silver, and were so
considered by the bank. On the amount of these notes so held, the Bank
of Kentucky bad agreed to pay interest, at the rate of six per centum,until
the same should be redeemed. All the notes of the Bank of Kentucky,
held by the Bank of the United States, were finally paid with the interest.
In February 1822, when the notes of the Bank of Kentucky were at a depreciation of between thirty-three and forty per cent, Owensapplied to the office
of the Bank of the United States, for a loan of 5000 dollars of the said notes,
saying they would answer his purpose as well as gold or silver. After repeated refusals and re-applications, with the consent of the board of directors of the Bank of the United States at Philadelphia, the sum of 5000 dollars, in the notes of the Bank of Kentucky, was loaned to him on a promissory note, signed by him, and by Waggener, Miller and Wagley, payable
in three years with interest, at the rate of six per cent per annum. The
money so loaned was paid to the borrower in the notes of the Bank of Kentucky, and in a check on that bank; and the interest on that amount of the
notes, being so much of the sum due by the Bank of Kentucky to the Bank of
the United States, ceased from the date of the loan. In an action on the note
given by Owens and others, the defence setup was that the transaction was
usurious, contrary to the charter of the Bank of the United States, and void.
Held, that there was no usury in the transaction.
The statute of usury of Kentucky of 1798, declares that all bonds, notes, &c.,
taken for the loan of money, where "1is reserved or taken" a greater rate of
interest than six per cent, shall be void. In this case no interest at all was
taken, the interest being payable at the termination ofthe three years mentioned in the note ; and if the case can be brought within the statute, it must
be not as a takzng, but as a reservatiou of more than legal interest.
The ninth article of the fundamental articles of the charter of the Bank of the
United States, declares, among other things, "1that the bank shall not be at
liberty to purchase any public debt whatsoever, nor shall it take more than
at the rate of six per centum per annum, for or on its loans or discounts."
It is clear that the present transaction does not fall within the prohibition of
dealing or trading, in the preceding part of the same article, according to
the interpretation thereof given by this court in the case of Fleckner v.
The Bank of the United States, 8 Wheaton 338, 351, 5 Cond. Rep. 457, to
which the court deliberately adhere.
The words of the article are, that the bank shall not take (not, shall not "1reserve" or " take") more than at the rate of six per cent. In the construction of statutes of usury, Ihis distinction between the reservation, and the tak-

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Bank of the United States v. Waggener and others.]

ing of usurious interest, has been deemed very material, for the reservation
of usurious interest makes the contract utterly void, but if usurious interest
be not stipulated for, but only taken afterwards, then the contract is not
void, and the party is only liable for the excess.
In the case of the Bank of the United States v. Owens, 2 Peters 527, 533, it
was said that in the charter the word 11reserving" must be implied in the
word 11taking." This expression of opinion was not called for by the certified question which arose out of the plea, for it was expressly averred in
the plea, that in pursuance of the corrupt and unlawful agreement therein
stated, the bank advanced and loaned the whole consideration of the note,
after discounting a large sum for discount, in the notes of the Bank of Kentucky, at their nominal value.
The case of the Bank of the United States v. Owens, 2 Peters 527, turned
upon considerations essentially different from those presented in the present
record. The questions certified in that case, arose upon a demurrer to a
plea of usury; and the demurrer, in terms, admitted that the agreement
was unlawfully, usuriously and corruptly entered into. So that no question as to the intention of the parties or the nature of the transaction was
put. The transaction was usurious and the agreement corrupt; and the
question there was, whether, if so, it was contrary to the prohibitions of
the charter, and the contract void. In the present case, the questions are
very different. Whether the agreement was corrupt or usurious; or bona
fide, and without any intent to commit usury, or to violate the charter; are
the very points which the jury were called upon, and under the instructions
were asked, to decide. The decision in 2 Peters 527, cannot therefore be
admitted to govern this, for the quo ammo of the act, as well as the act
itself, constitute the gist of the controversy.
In construing the usury Jaws, the uniform construction in England has been,
and it is equally applicable here, that to constitute usury within the prohibitions of the law, there must be an intention knowingly to contract for and
to take usurious interest; for if neither party intend it, and act bona fide
and innocently, the law will not infer a corrupt agreement.
This principle would seem to apply to the charter of the Bank. There must
be an intent to take illegal interest, or, in the language of the law, a corrupt agreement to take it, in violation of the charter. The quo animo is,
therefore, an essential ingredient in all cases of this sort.
There has been no taking of usury and no reservation of usury on the face of
this transaction. The case, then, resolves itself into this inquiry, whether,
upon the evidence, there was any such corrupt agreement, or device, or
shift to reserve or take usury and none of these appear inthe case.
Because an article is depreciated in the market, it does not follow that the
owner is not entitled to demand or require a higher price for it, before he
consents to part with it. He may possess bank notes which to him are of par
value, in payment of his own debts, or in payment of public taxes; and yet
their marketable value may be far less. Ifhe uses no disguiseif he seeks not
to cover a loan of money, under the pretence of a sale or exchange of them,
but the transaction is bona fide what it purports to be, the law will not set
aside the contract, for it is no violation of any public policy against usury.

IN error to the circuit court of the United States for the Ken-

tucky district.,

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of the United States v. Waggener and others.]

The plaintiffs in error instituted an action against the defendants, and one William Owens, on a promissory note for 5000
dollars, dated the 7th of February 1822, and payable at the
office of the Bank of the United States at Lexington, Kentucky,
on the 7th of February 1825, with interest at the rate of six
pet centum per annum. The defendants were joint and several
promIssors with William Owens. Upon a plea and demurrer
in the suit, a division of opinion was certified by the judges of
the circuit court to this court, upon which the opinion of the
court was given, as reported in 2 Peters 527.
Afterwards, at May term 1833, the case having been remanded, judgment was entered against William Owens for
want of a plea, and the other defendants pleaded the general
issue, upon which, the cause was tried by a jury, and a verdict and judgment, under the direction of the court, were
given for the defendants. A bill of exceptions to the refusal of
the court to give the instructions asked by the plaintiffs, and
to those given by the court at the request of the defendants,
was tendered on behalf of the plaintiffs,- and was sealed by
the judges of the circuit court.
The note declared on was in the following terms
"On or before the 7th day of February 1825, we, William
Owens, Alexander Miller, Herbert G. Waggener, George
Wagley, jointly and severally, promise to pay to the Presideni,
Directors and Company of the Bank of the United States, at
their office of discount and deposit at Lexington, the sum of
5000 dollars in lawful money of the United States, with interest
thereon, in like money, after the rate of six per cent per annum from this day until paid, for value received, at the said
office of discount and deposit at Lexington, without defalcation. Witness our hands, this 7th day of February 1822.
" WILLIAM OWENS,
" ALEX. MILLER,
" HERBERT G. WAGGENER,
" GEORGE WAGLEY.

"Witness-JOHN BREEN."
On which note is the following indorsement

"Mem.-Interest is to be charged on this note from the
21st day of May 1822 only and not from the 7th of February

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Bank of the United States v. Waggener and others.]

1822, within mentioned, the former being the day on which
,ie amount was actually received by the makers of the note.
"1H. CLAY."
The evidence in the case established the following facts.
Before the time when the note was given, the office of the
Bank of the United States at Lexington was the holder of a
large amount of notes of the Bank of Kentucky, which had
been received in the usual course of business, at the full value
of the notes as expressed upon them, in gold and silver. These
notes were considered as valuable to the full extent of their
amount, although the Bank of Kentucky had suspended paying
their notes in specie. No doubt was entertained by the officers
of the office of the Bank of the United States, of the full ability
of the Bank of Kentucky so to redeem them. At the time the
loan was made to Owens on the note sued upon, the notes of
the Bank of Kentucky had depreciated to the amount of between thirty-three and forty per cent. It was also in evidence,
that when the Bank of Kentucky suspended specie payments
in 1819, the institution was considerably indebted to the plaintiffs at the office at Lexington, for her notes taken in the usual
course of business, and for government deposits transferred to
that office from the Bank of Kentucky and its branches, and
that the accounts had been settled between the institutions,
the balance ascertained and placed to the credit of the plaintiffs
on the books of the Bank of Kentucky, as a deposit upon which
the Bank of Kentucky agreed, in consideration of forbearance
of the plaintiffs, to pay interest at the rate of six per cent per
annum , and -that said interest, as it accrued, was carried at
stated intervals of time to the credit of the plaintiffs on the
books of the bank, and that the amount paid Owens on the
said check had the effect of stopping the interest on that sum
from that time. The balance which remained due from the
Bank of Kentucky to the Bank of the United States was finally
settled and discharged in specie or its equivalent, about seven
months after the date or time of the said loan to Owens. The
Bank of Kentucky did not, for many years after the date of
the loan to Owens, generally resume the payment of its notes
in specie, or its equivalent.
In the state of things existing in 1822, William Owens applied

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of the United States v. Waggener and others.]

to the office at Lexington for a loan of 6000 dollars in the notes
of the Bank of Kentucky, assuring the bank that they would
answer his purpose as well as gold or silver. The offer was
rejected by the directors of the bank, and on its renewal, was
again refused. A third time the loan was applied for, the interference of a gentleman connected with the business of the
bank, not a- director, to procure it, was solicited and obtained,
and the application was referred to the board at Philadelphia,
by which the loan was authorized, a mortgage on real estate
being given as an additional security for the loan. The mortgage and note having been executed, the amount of the same
was paid to William Owens by handing him 1100 dollars in
notes of the Kentucky Bank, and a check of that bank for
3900 dollars, which was paid to him at that bank in its notes.
The defence to the action was, that the transaction was
usurious, and therefore contrary to the act of congress incorporating the Bank of the United States, and void. On the trial,
the following instructions to the jury were asked by the counsel
for the plaintiffs.
"1. That if they believe from the evidence, that the consideration of the note sued on was 3900 dollars, paid in a check
on the Bank of Kentucky, and 1100 dollars in Kentucky notes,
and that the contract-was fairly made, without any intention
to evade the laws against usury, but that the parties making
the contract intended to exchange credits for the accommodation of Owens, that the Bank of Kentucky was solvent, and
so understood to be, and able to pay all its debts by coercion
that the contract is not void for usury, nor contrary to the fundamental law or charter of the bank, notwithstanding it was
known to the parties, that said bank did not pay specie for its
notes without coercion, and that the difference in exchange
between bank notes of the Bank of Kentucky and gold and
silver, was from thirty-three to forty per cent against the notes
of the Bank of Kentucky.
"2. To instruct the jury, that if they believe from the evidence, that the contract was made on the part of the bank fairly,
and with nointention to avoid the prohibition of their charterby
taking agreater rate of interest than six per cent, or the statutes
against usury, but at the instance, and for the accommodation
and benefit of the defendant Owens; and thatat the time of the

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Bank of the United States v. Waggener and others.]

negotiation and contract for the check on the bank, and the 1100
dollars in bank notes of the Bank of Kentucky, that bank was
indebted to the Bank of the United States, at their office aforesaid, the sum of 10,000 dollars or-more, bearing an interest of
six per cent, which sum, it was understood and believed by the
parties to the coniract, at and before its execution, the Bank of
Kentucky was well able to pay, with interest, and which sum iL
did pay, after deducting the 3900 dollars, paid to the defendant
Owings, with interest in gold or silver, or its equivalent that
the contract was not usurious, unless they believe that the contract was a shift or device entered into to avoid the statute
against usury, and the prohibition of the charter, notwithstanding the jury should find that the check and notes aforesaid
were, in point of fact, of less value than gold and silver.
"13. If the jury find, from the evidence in the cause, that
the defendants applied to the plaintiffs to obtain from them
5000 dollars of the notes of the President, Directors and Company of the Bank of Kentucky, and in consideration of their
delivering, or causing to be delivered to the defendants 5000
dollars of such notes, and the said Bank of Kentucky was then
solvent and able to pay the said notes, and has so continued
up to this time, and that the holders thereof could, by reasonable diligence, have recovered the amount thereof, with six
per centum per annum interest thereon, from the time of the
delivery of them by plaintiffs to defendants, up to the time of
such recovery, and that said arrangement and contract was
not made under a device, or with the intent to evade the statutes against usury, or to evade the law inhibiting the plaintiffs
from receiving or reserving upon loans interest at a greater
rate than six per centum per annum then the transaction
was not in law usurious or unlawful, and the jury should find
for the plaintiffs.
"4. That unless the jury find from the evidence in the cause
that the advance sale or loan of the notes on the Bank of Kentucky, made by plaintiffs to defendants, was so made as a shift
or device to avoid the statute against usury, or in avoidance of
the clause of the act of congress which inhibits the plaintiffs
from taking or reserving more than at the rate of six per centurn per annum for the loan, forbearance, or giving day of

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of the United States v. Waggener and others.]

payment of money, the law is for the plaintiffs, and the jury
should find accordingly.
"5. That unless they believe, from the evidence in this cause,
that there was a lending of money, and a reservation of a
greater rate of interest than at the rate of six per centum per
annum stipulated to be paid by defendants to plaintiffs the law
is for the plaintiffs, and the jury should find for them, unless
they further find that there was a shift or device resorted to by
the parties with the intent and for the purpose of avoiding the
law, by which something other than money was advanced,
and by which a greater rate of interest than six per cent was
allowed.
"6. That if the defendants applied to the plaintiffs for a loan
of 5000 dollars of the notes of the Bank of Kentucky, and
agreed to give therefor their note for 5000 dollars, payable three
years thereafter, with interest, and the Bank of Kentucky was
then, and continued thereafter to be solvent, and the said Bank
of Kentucky did thereafter pay and discharge to the holders
thereof tle said notes, the said contract was not unlawfulalthough the notes of the Bank of Kentucky would not then
command, in gold or silver, their nominal amount, when offered for sale or exchange as a commodity or money.
"7. That, if they find from the evidence, that the defendants obtained from the plaintiffs 5000 dollars of the notes of the
Bank of Kentucky, or 3900 dollars in a check upon said bank
and 1100 dollars of its notes, and in consideration thereof, made
the note sued upon, the-said transaction was not therefore unlawful or usurious-although the notes of the Bank of Kentucky
were then at a depreciation in value of thirty-three per cent,
in exchange for gold or silver.
"8. That there is no evidence in this cause conducing to
prove that there was a loan by the plaintiffs to the defendants of notes on the President, Directors and Company of the
Bank of Kentucky."
The court refused to give these instructions, and on motion of
the defendants instructed the jury "that if they find from the
evidence that the only consideration for the obligation declared
upon was a loan made by the plaintiffs to Owens of 5000 dollars in notes of the Bank of Kentucky, estimated at their nominal amounts, part paid in the notes themselves, and the resi-

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Bank of the United States v. Waggener and others.]

due in a check drawn bythe plaintiffs on the Bankof Kentucky,
on the understanding and agreement that the said Owens was
to receive the notes of said bank in payment thereof, and he
accordingly did so, that the Bank of Kentucky had, before that
time, suspended specie payments, and did not then pay its
notes in lawful money, that the said notes then constituted a
general currency in the state of Kentucky, commonly passing
in business and in exchange at a discount of between thirty
and forty per cent below their nominal amounts, and could
not have been sold or passed at a higher price, that the said
facts were known to the plaintiffs and said Owens, yet the
plaintiffs passed the said notes to the said Owens, the borrower,
at their nominal amounts then the transaction was in violation of the act of congress incorporating the plaintiffs, the obligation declared on is void, and the verdict ought to befor the
defendants."
The plaintiffs prosecuted this writ of error.
Mr Sergeant, for the plaintiffs in error, submitted the following printed argument.
The errors assigned are
1. That the court erred in giving the instructions prayed by
the defendants.
2. That they erred in not giving the instructions prayed by
the plaintiffs.
The case presented and adjudicated by this court, in The
Bank v Owens, 2 Peters 527, was essentially different from
the case now submitted. There, unfortunately, the plaintiffs,
by demurring to the defendant's plea, admitted all the allegations it contained, in their strongest sense, including the allegation of corrupt and usurious intention.
In short, they
as
properly
characterized
that
the
contract
was
confessed
corrupt, usurious, and in violation of- the charter. The court
were thus compelled to declare the law as applied to a contract thus alleged on one side, and confessed on the other,
with all its offensive description, without the power of looking
into the true merits of the case, and ascertaining whether the
transaction was really such as it was represented to be. To
this their decision was limited.
VOL. x.-2

Y

SUPREME COURT
[Bank of the United States v. Waggener and others.)

The real state of the case is now brought before the court
upon the evidence from which it will be perceived at once,
that the injurious charges of the plea, so incautiously admitted
by the demurrer, have no support whatever from the facts,
and that the judicial prejudice the bank has suffered, as well
as the extensive prejudice in public opinion, are wholly unmerited. The transaction was innocent and just, entered into
with the fairest intentions, upon a full and adequate consideration, and with no view to any gain by the bank, or any loss
to Owens. The bank, literally, did not gain one cent by the
negotiation, it did not even gain the interest, for interest, at
the same rate, was payable by the Bank of Kentucky Neither
did it, by the negotiation, convert capital that was dead into
active capital, a long credit being allowed. On the other
hand, Owens did not lose. He declared that what he received was, to him, equal to gold or silver; and it must be
taken for granted that it proved to be so, for there is no evidence, nor even an allegation, to the contrary.
It further appears that this negotiation was at the earnest
instance of Owens, and for his accommodation. When he
thought his own instances insufficient, he sought the aid of
others, and especially applied to Mr Clay, who was counsel of
the bank, and to the late colonel Morrison, who had been
president of the office, to use their influence, as his friends, to
aid him in obtaining what he asked. And finally, it appears
that the application, from the beginning, was for the notes of
the Bank of Kentucky, which, to him, were equal to gold or
silver.
These facts are conclusively proved by the depositions of the
witnesses, and especially by the minutes of the office, and Mr
Cheves's letter of the 27th March 1822, in the record.
The instruction given by the court was, that the "transaction was in violation of the act of congress incorporating the
plaintiffs, the obligation declared on is void, and the verdict
ought to be for the defendant."
Is this instruction correct q This is the question, and the
only question, in the case. The plaintiffs in error submit that
it is not.
The words of the charter are, that, in its loans or discounts,

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Bank of the United States v. Waggener and others.]

the bank shall not take more than at the rate of six per
centum per annum.
The negotiation with Owens cannot, with any propriety,
(now that the evidence is disclosed) be termed "a loan or discount," within the meaning of this section of the act of congress. The language of the act is properly applicable to the
lending of money, that is to say, gold or silver. It is very true
that borrowers seldom receive in gold or silver. They commonly
take bank credits, or notes of the bank which makes the loan,
but these give a present right to demand gold or silver, and
are taken by the borrower for his own convenience, as the evidence that he has so much gold or silver in the bank. Here,
there was no such loan. There was no discount in the ordinary way of discounting; but a special agreement, the nature
of which will be presently considered.
The bank did not "1take more than at the rate of six per
centum per annum." If we look at the terms of the agreement, we find the rate of interest agreed upon was precisely
six per centum per annum, neither more nor less. So particular was the learned counsel of the bank in observing precisely
the spirit as well as the words of the charter, that he took care,
by an indorsement on the note, to prevent the interest from
beginning to run before the day when the consideration was
actually received by Owens, which happened to be some time
after the date of the note.
The decision, however, in The Bank v. Owens, 2 Peters
527, rested entirely upon a position which admitted the express
and apparent terms of the contract to be quite consistent with
the provision of the act of congress already quoted. The position was, that it presented "1one of those cases in which a device is resorted to, by which is reserved a higher profit than the
legal interest, under a mask thrown over the transaction."
This, the court say, is a fraud upon the statute, and "1a fraud
upon a statute is a violation of the statute." From this conclusion the court derive another, namely, that such a contract is
entirely void, and no court will aid its being enforced.
Upon the pleadings in the case just cited, this conclusion
was deduced by the court, but even upon those pleadings, it
was deduced with hesitation, only upon the authonty of a case
which decides that "the confession of the quo animo, implied

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of the United States v. Waggener and others.]

in a demurrer, will affect a case with usury." Immediately
after, it is added by the court, "a very similar case in the same
book, in which the plaintiff bad traversed the plea, was left to
the jury with a favourable charge."
The decision of the court, therefore, turned entirely upon the
quo ammno averred in the plea and admitted by the demurrer,
and was confined entirely to a case so brought up, with a very
strong intimation that upon a traverse the result would be different.
This plea has been withdrawn, and is no longer before the
court. The unfortunate demurrer has gone along with it. In
lieu of it, the general issue of non assumpsit has been pleaded,
and issue joined thereon, which is at least as beneficial to the
plaintiffs as a traverse of the former plea would have been.
Such an issue presented to the jury the question of quo animo,
which was closed up in the former case by the issue of law,
and led to the decision by this court. Upon the very principle,
then, laid down by this court, according to the authority of
Bennmgfield v. Ashley, Cro. El. 741, this question ought to
have been left to the jury The counsel of the plaintiffs asked
for instructions to that effect, but the learned judge refused
those instructions, and gave the instruction prayed by the
defendant's counsel, taking the inquiry from the jury, and
deciding, as a question of law, that the contract was void.
The plaintiff was entitled to have the whole question f intention, or quo animo, left to the jury, and he was entitled to
more, that is, to have it left to the jury, "with a favourable
charge."
Was there, or was there not "a device resorted to," or "a
mask thrown over the transaction," to disguise and cover an
intention, scheme, or plan to violate or evade the charter, by
taking more than lawful interest I There could not be, unless
such an intention existed. Was there, then, such an intentionl
The evidence is full and clear to show that there was not.
The whole transaction was fair and bona fide, in the best good
faith on the part of the bank, and with no disguise or concealment whatever.
The court erred in not so leaving it to the jury.
Mr Sergeant also contended at the bar
1. That the negotiation was at the repeated instance of

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Bank of the United States v. Waggener and others.]

Owens. The office twice declined his application, and then
he employed the influence of his friends, Mr Clay and colonel
Morrison, to obtain an order from the parent boaid.
2. That, according to his own statement, the notes he received, were to him equal to gold and silver. He therefore
sustained no loss.
3. That the bank gained nothing by the negotiation. The
notes were settled in account with the Bank of Kentucky, and
were bearing interest. There was no gain in interest. There
was no gain in time, but the contrary. The notes would have
been paid much sooner by the Bank of Kentucky. The bank
did not even gain the advantage of converting dead capital
into active capital. It had less activity than before.
4. That the value of this paper was not to be ascertained by
the value of paper in circulation. It was not in circulation.
It was held by agreement, as evidence of debt, bearing interest, which no note in circulation bears.
5. That upon a fair estimate, the debt of the Bank of Kentucky was at the time, and is now, fully proved to have been
worth more than the debt for which it was exchanged.
6. That the negotiation on the part of the Bank was innocent, and without intention of usury, or any unlawful profit.
He then proceeded to argue, that there was error in the
instruction given at the instance of defendants, and the refusal to give the instructions asked for by the plaintiffs in the
court below.
The court assumed that the question was for the court, and
as such, decided it as a question of law, when it really was a
question of fact and intention, to be decided by the jury
This is manifest from the former decision of this court, when
the case came up, on demurrer. Bank v. Owens, 2 Peters
527.
There are two ways in which usury may be committed.
1. By agreeing for more interest than is allowed by law. 2.
By some device which is a cover for the same thing.
1. The first may be decided by the court. This is the
meaning of the case of Roberts v Tremayne, Cr. Jac. 507.
It is apparent to the court, res ipsa loquitur.
2. This is invariably a question for the jury Ord on usury

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of the United States v. Waggener and others.]

208, Massa v. Darling, 2 Strange 1243, Lowe v. Waller,
Doug. 736, 1 Esp. Rep.
But it has been decided in the Bank v. Owens, that we are
not to be affected by the usury laws of the states.
1. Was this a violation of charter 2 2. If it were, how are
we affected by it 2Q
1. The charter meant only to fix the rate of interest on discounts, but this was no discount, at all. It was a specific
negotiation, and that negotiation was an innocent one. The
bank gave a full consideration, with no view to gain. It did
not gain. All its debt was paid in less than half the time. It
was an exchange of credits.
2. The act is simply prohibitory. The effect, where there
is nothing more, s only to relieve against the excess; or to
enable the party to recover it back.
The statutes of usury declare the contract void, but
wherever the case is in the power of a court, either of law or
equity, they compel the payment of principal and interest.
A motion to set aside judgments upon the ground of usury,
was refused in the exchequer. Mathews v. Lewis, 1 Anst. 7,
Ord 118.
If one voluntarily pay the money and legal interest, he cannotrecover it back if more, only the excess. Astley v. Reynolds, 2 Str. 915, Ord 118, 119. So, if he sue for apledge or
security. Fitzroy v. Gwillin, 1 T. R. 153. So in equity, before a party can get relief, he must pay the money and lawful
interest. Bosanquet v. Dashwood, Ca. Tem. Talb. 38. Cited
also, Ord on Usury 141, Langford v. Barnard, Toth. 231,
Proof v. Hines, Ca. Tern. Talbot 111, Scott v. Nesbit, 2 Br.
Ch. Ca. 641, Ord 143, 144, 145, 146. Taylor v. Bell, 2
Vern. 170; Barker v. Yansommer, 1 Br. Ch. Ca. 149.
7h4rule is the same in Pennsylvania. The same principle
has- Veen-established in this court. Bank of the United States
v. Fleckner'8 Wheaton 355.
The cases to the contrary are, against public morals, or
against some great public policy, mostly involving a misdemeanour, and criminally offensive.
- On either ground the plaintiffs in error are entitled to have
the judgment reversed.

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Bank of the United States v. Waggener and others.]

A printed argument, prepared by Messrs Crittenden and
Monroe, counsel for the defendants in the circuit court, was
delivered to the court.
They contended that upon the case presented in the record,
the only questions that can arise, relate to the propriety of the
decision of the court, in giving the instruction asked on the
part of the defendants, and in refusing those asked on the part
of the plaintiffs.
All these questions depend on the proper construction and
application of that part of the ninth section of the fundamental
rules of the bank charter, which declares that the bank shall
not "take more than at the rate of six per centum per annum,
for or upon its loans or discounts."
First, then, as to the propriety of the instruction given at the
instance of the defendants.
The usury laws of Kentucky, like the charter of the bank,
forbid the taking of a greater interest than six per cent per
annum upon loans, and it has been repeatedly decided by the
court of appeals of that state, that the lending of depreciated
bank paper, and taking the bond or note of the borrower for its
nominal amount in specie, with legal interest only, is usurious,
and a plain and direct infraction of the statute forbidding the
taking of more than six per centum per annum. Freeman v.
Brown, 7 Mon. 263. Rodes's Executors v. Bush, 5 Mon. 477.
Boswell v. Clarksons, 1 J. J. Marshall 47. That court has
invariably proceeded on the principle, that the current value
of the depreciated paper, at the time of lending and borrowing,
was to be considered its real value and that if the payment
stipulated for by the borrower, exceeded the amount of the
current value of the depreciated paper at the time, and legal
interest thereon, that it was against law, and usurious.
The lender who reserves an interest of six per cent upon a
greater sum than he actually lends, is most clearly, we think,
as much and as directly a violator of the law as he who reserves more than six per cent upon the sum actually loaned.
The facts on which this instruction is predicated, are incontestably established by the evidence, and the legal conclusions
drawn from them, as stated in said instruction, are confidentlv
believed to be correct, and to be maintained by the decision
of this court upon this case when formerly before it. The

SUPREME COURT
[Bank of the United States v. Waggener and others.]

facts on which this instruction is founded are the same, m
effect, that were alleged in the plea that was then decided
to be a good and sufficient bar to the action. We conclude,
therefore, that this instruction is propel; and according to law.
Secondly, as to the instructions moved on the part of the
plaintiffs, and refused by the court we contend that they are
all either impertinent, as having no application to the case as
it appears in proof; or that they are embraced and negatived
by the considerations and authorities urged in support of the
instruction given at the instance of the defendants. That the
refusal of them was correct, and. could not prejudice the plaintiffs.
The uncontested facts make an apparent case of usury.
The application of Owens was for a loan-a loan was made
to him of 5000 dollars in Kentucky Bank paper, depreciated
between thirty-three and forty per cent. And for the nominal
amount of this paper, the note in question was taken, payable
in lawful money of the United States with six per centum
interest thereon. About these facts there can be no dispute.
They make, per se, a case of usury, and "cannot by intendment have any other construction"-res ipsa loquitur. Roberts v. Tremayne, 3 Croke's Rep. 508. Yet to give it some
"other construction," by one "intendment" or other, is the
object of all the instructions moved on the part of the plaintiffs,
that are applicable to the case.
In the case above referred to in Croke, the distinction is
taken between cases where usury is apparent from the circumHere, from indispustances, and where it is only "implied."
table facts stated, it is apparent that the plaintiffs, by the note
in suit, have attempted to secure to themselves a much greater
amount, than the value which they loaned and six per centum
interest thereon. This is not the evidence of usury, it is usury
itself. And its legal character and effect cannot be changed
or evaded, by any fairness of mere intention, that may be ascribed to the lender.
It is manifest, that the plaintiffs did intend to do, and did in
fact do, every thing necessary to constitute an usurious loan,
that they did take more than at the rate of six per centum per
annum, upon this loan to Owens, and did intend to do all

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Bank of the United States v. Waggener and others.]

they did do, it was therefore in vain for them to allege afterwards, they did not intend to violate the law.
No error of the officers of the bank, as to the effect of the
transaction under the law, can give validity to the paper taken
in violation of the law. Their supposition, that the loan of
depreciated paper at its nominal amount, to be repaid in lawful
money with interest upon it, was authorized by their charter
and lawful, could not make it so. Where there is a controversy
as to what the transaction was, in fact, the intention of the
parties may have effect in determining its character, but when
the fact, and intention to do what was acted, are manifest, the
law is only to be appealed to for the effects and consequences.
Here, that the transaction was a loan is unquestionable, and
the instruction given by the court is predicated on this, together with the other facts, to be found by the jury The
conclusion of law pronounced by the court was inevitable.
Mr Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a writ of error to the circuit court of the district of
Kentucky, to revise a judgment of that court, in a case where
the plaintiffs in error were original plaintiffs in the suit.
The smt was an action of debt brought upon a promissory
note, dated the 7th of February 1822, whereby the defendants,
on or before the 7th of February 1825, jointly and severally
promised to pay the President, &c. of the Bank of the United
States, at their office of discount and deposit, at Lexington,
5000 dollars with interest thereon, after the rate of six per
cent per annum, until paid, for value received. And by a
memorandum on the back of the note, the interest was to be
charged only from the 21st of May 1822, that being the day
on which the money was actually received by the makers of
the note.
The plea of payment was put in, upon which issue was
joined, and it was agreed between the parties, that either party
under the issue might give in evidence any special matter
which could be specially pleaded. At the trial a verdict was
rendered for the defendants, upon which, judgment passed in
their favour, and the cause is now brought before us for revision, upon a bill of exceptions taken at the trial, and for matters
of law therein stated.
voL. IX.-2 z

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of the United States v. Waggener and others.]

From the evidence at the trial, it appears that prior to the
time when the note was given, viz. In 1819, the bank of Kentucky, which had previously been in high credit, suspended
specie payments; and at that time the institution was indebted
to the plaintiffs, the Bank of the United States, in a large sum
of money, for notes of the Bank of Kentucky, taken at par, in
the usual course of business, and for government deposits
transferred to the office at Lexington, from the Bank of Kentucky and its branches. The -accounts had been settled between the two institutions, the balance ascertained and placed
to the credit of the plaintiffs, on the books of the Bank of Kentucky as a deposit, upon which the Bank of Kentucky agreed,
in consideration of forbearance, to pay interest at the rate of
six per cent per annum, and the interest, as it accrued, was
carried, at stated intervals, to the credit of the plaintiffs, on the
books of the bank. This agreement was punctuallyperformed
by the Bank of Kentucky, and the balance which remained
due to the plaintiffs was finally settled and discharged in specie,
or its equivalent, in about seven months after the negotiation,
which will be immediately noticed.
In this state of things, Owens, one of the defendants, made
repeated applications to the Lexington office of the Bank of the
United States, for an accommodation of 5000 dollars, in Kentucky Bank notes; of which the office had a considerable sum
on hand, stating that such notes would answer his purpose as
well as gold or silver, and agreeing to receive them at their
nominal amounts. These applications, were rejected, and
finally, at his urgent suggestions, an application was made to
the parent bank at Philadelphia, to permit the Lexington office
to grant the application, and the parent bank accordingly gave
the permission. The note now in suit was accordingly given,
with a mortgage of real estate as collateral security, and 1100
dollars were received in Kentucky Bank notes, and the remaining .3900 dollars were paid by a check drawn on the Bank of
Kentucky, which was duly honoured, and the amount of the
check was deducted from the balance due to the plaintiffs, and
interest thereon immediately ceased.
It further appeared, at the trial, that the Bank of Kentucky
was never insolvent, but had always sufficient effects to pay its
debts, that it has been several times sued for its debts, which

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Bank of the United States v. Waggener and others.]

had been always paid in specie, or other arrangements had
been made satisfactory to the creditors, it had discharged the
greater part of its debts, and had distributed among its stockholders 10 dollars in specie and 70 dollars in notes of the
Commonwealth Bank of Kentucky, (which were at a great depreciation), and that all its funds had not yet been distributed.
The Bank of Kentucky never resumed specie payments, and
at the time of the negotiation above stated, the notes were depreciated from thirty-three to forty per cent, and were current
as a circulating medium at this rate of depreciation. They
were, however, by law, receivable for state taxes and county
levies at par, and had accordingly been so received.
Upon this evidence the plaintiffs moved the court to instruct
the jury as follows.
" 1. That, if they believe from the evidence, that the consideration of the note sued on was 3900 dollars paid in check
on the Bank of Kentucky, and 1100 in Kentucky Bank notes,
and that the contract was fairly made, without any intention to
evade the laws against usury, but that the parties making the
contract intended to exchange credits for the accommodation
of Owens, that the Bank of Kentucky was solvent, and so
understood to be, and able to pay all its debts by coercion. that
the contract is not void for usury, nor contrary to the fundamental law or charter of the bank, notwithstanding it was
known to the parties that said bank did not pay specie for its
notes without coercion, and that the difference in exchange
between bank notes of the Bank of Kentucky, and gold and
silver, was from thirty-three to forty per cent against the notes
of the Bank of Kentucky.
"2. To instruct the jury that, if they believe from the evidence that the contract was made on the part of the bank
fairly, and with no intention to avoid the prohibition of their
charter, by taking a greater rate of interest than six per cent,
or the statutes against usury, but at the instance, and for the
accommodation and benefit of the defendant Owens, and that
at the time of the negotiation and contract for the check on
the bank, and the 1500 dollars in bank notes of the Bank of
Kentucky, the Bank of Kentucky was indebted to the Bank of
the United States, at their office aforesaid, the sum of 10,000
dollars or more, bearing an interest of six per cent, which sum,

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of the United States v. Waggener and others.]

it was understood and believed by the parties to the contract,
at and before its execution, the Bank of Kentucky, with interest, was well able to pay, and which sum it did pay, after
deducting the 3900 dollars paid to the defendant Owens, with
interest in gold or silver, or its equivalent that the contract
was not usurious, unless they believe that the contract was a
shift or device entered into to avoid the statute against usury,
and the prohibition of the charter, notwithstanding the jury
should find that the check and notes aforesaid were, in point
of fact, of less value than gold and silver.
"3. If the jury find from the evidence in the cause, that the
defendants applied to the plaintiffs to obtain from them 5000
dollars of the notes of the President, Directors and Company
of the Bank of Kentucky, and in consideration of their delivering, or causing to be delivered to the defendants 5000 dollars
of such notes, and the said Bank of Kentucky was then solvent and able to .pay the said notes, and has so continued up
to this time, and that the holders thereof could, by reasonable
diligence, have recovered the amount thereof, with six per
centum per annum interest thereon, from the time of the delivery of them by plaintiffs to defendants; up to the time of such
recovery, and that said arrangement and contract was not
made under a device, or with the intent to evade the statutes
against usury, or to evade the law inhibiting the plaintiffs from
receiving or reserving upon loans interest at a greater rate than
six per centum per arnum then the transaction was not in
law usurious or unlawful, and the jury should find for the
plaintiffs.
"4. That unless the jury find, from the evidence in the
cause, that the advance sale or loan of the notes on the Bank
of Kentucky, made by plaintiffs to defendants, was so made as
a shift or device to avoid the statute against usury, or in avoidance of the clause of the act of congress which inhibits the
plaintiffs from taking or reserving more than at the rate of six
per centum per annum for the loan, forbearance, or giving day
of payment of money- the law is for the plaintiffs, and the jury
would find accordingly
"5. That unless they believe, from the evidence in this
cause, that there was a lending of money, and a reservation of
a greater -rate of interest than at the rate of six per centum per

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Bank of the United States v. Waggener and others.)

annum, stipulated to be paid by defendants to plaintiffs, the
law is for the plaintiffs, and the jury should find for them.
Unless they further find that there was a shift or device resorted
by the parties with the intent and for the purpose of avoiding
the law, by which something other than money was advaned, and by which a greater rate of interest than six per cent
was allowed.
"6. That if the defendants applied to the plaintiffs for a
loan of 5000 dollars of the notes of the Bank of Kentucky, and
agreed to give therefor their note for 5000 dollars, payable three
years thereafter, with interest, and the Bank of Kentucky was
then, and continued thereafter to be solvent, and the said Bank
of Kentucky did thereafter pay and discharge to the holders
thereof the said notes the said contract was not unlawful,
although the notes of the Bank of Kentucky would not then
command, in gold or silver, their nominal amount when offered
for sale or exchange as a commodity or money.
"7 That if they find from the evidence that the defendants
obtained from the plaintiffs 5000 dollars of the notes of the
Bank of Kentucky, or 3900 dollars in a check upon said bank,
and 1100 of its notes, and in consideration thereof, made the
note sued upon. the said transaction was not therefore unlawful or usurious, although the notes of the Bank of Kentucky
were then at a depreciation in value of thirty-three per cent in
exchange for gold and silver.
"8. That there is no evidence in this cause conducing to
prove that there was a loan by the plaintiffs to the defendants
of notes on the President, Directors and Company of the Bank
of Kentucky."
The court refused to give any of these instructions, and
upon the prayer of the defendants, instructed the jury as follows.
"That if they find from the evidence that the only consideration for the obligation declared upon was a loan made by the
plaintiffs to Owens of 5000 dollars, in notes of the Bank of Kentucky, estimated at their nominal amounts, part paid in the
notes themselves, and the residue in a check drawn by the
plaintiffs on the Bank of Kentucky, on the understanding and
agreement that the said Owens was to receive the notes on
said bank in payment thereof, and he accordingly did so, that

SUPREME COURT
[Bank of the United States v. Waggener and others.]

the Bank of Kentucky had, before that time, suspended specie
payments, and did not then pay its notes in lawful money,
that the said notes then constituted a general currency in the
state of Kentucky, commonly passing in business and in exchange at a discount of between thirty and forty per cent below
their nominal amounts, and could not havebeen sold or passed
at a higher price ,that the said facts were known to the plaintiffs, and said Owens, yet the plaintiffs passed the said notes
to the said Owens, the borrower, at their nominal amounts
then the transaction was in violation of the act of congress incorporating the plaintiffs, the obligation declared on is void, and
the verdict ought to be for the defendants."
The statute of usury of Kentucky of 1798, declares, that no.
person shall hereafter contract, directly or indirectly, for the
loan of any money, wares, merchandize or other commodity,
above the value of six pounds for the forbearance of one hundred pounds for a year, and after that rate, for a greater or a
lesser sum, or for a longer or shorter time , and all bonds, contracts, &c., thereafter made for payment or delivery of any
money or goods so lent, on which a higher interest is reserved
or taken than is hereby allowed, shall be utterly void. This
clause of the act is substantially a transcript of the statute of
12 Ann, stat. 2, ch. 16, sect. 1, and, therefore, the same construction will apply to each. In the present case, no interest
at all has been taken by the plaintiffs on the 5000 dollars.
There was no discount of the accruing interest from the face
of the note, and the interest was payable only with the prncipal, at the termination of the three years mentioned in the
note. If the case, therefore, can be brought within the statute, it must be, not as a taking, but as a reservation, of illegal
interest.
The ninth article of the fundamental articles of the charter
of the Bank of the United States, (act of 1816, ch. 44, sect.
1]) declares, among other things, that the bank "shall not
be at liberty to purchase any public debt whatsoever, nor
shall it take more than at the rate of six per centum per annum for or upon its loans or discounts." It is clear that the
present transaction does not fall within the prohibition of dealing or trading, in the preceding part of the same article, according to the interpretation thereof given by this'court in

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Bank of the United States v. Waggener and others.]

Fleckner v. The Bank of the United States, 8 Wheat. Rep.
338, 351, to which we deliberately adhere.
It is observable that the words of the article are, that the
Bank shall not take (not shall not reserve or take) more than
at the rate of six per cent. In the construction of the statutes
of usury, this distinction between the reservation, and taking
of usurious interest, has been deemed very material for the
reservation of usuious interest, makes the contract utterly
void, but if usurious interest be not stipulated for, but only
taken afterwards, there the contract is not void, but the party
is only liable to the penalty for the excess. So it was held in
Floyer v Edwards, Cowp. Rep. 112. But in the case of the
Bank of the United States v Owens, 2 Peters 527, 538, it wap
said, that in the charter, "reserving" must be implied in the
word "taking." This expression of opinion was not called for
by the certified question which arose out of the plea, for it
was expressly averred in the plea, that in pursuance of the
corrupt and unlawful agreement therein stated, the Bank advanced and loaned the whole consideration of the note, after
deducting a large sum for discount, in the notes of the Bank
of Kentucky, at their nominal value.
It is in reference to the usury act of Kentucky, and this article of the Bank charter, that the various instructions asked or
given are to be examined. But before proceeding to consider
them severally, it may be proper to remark, that in construing
the usury laws, the uniform construction in England has been,
(and it is equally applicable here) that to constitute usury
within the prohibitions of the law, there must be an intention
knowingly to contract for or to take usurious interest, for if
neither party intend it, but act bona fide and innocently, the law
will not infer a corrupt agreement. Where, indeed, the contract upon its very face imports usury, as by an express reservation of more than legal interest, there is no room for presumption, for the intent is apparent, res ipsa loquitur. But
where the contract on its face is for legal interest only, -there
it must be proved that there was some corrupt agreement or
device, or shift, to cover usury, and that it was in the full contemplation of the parties. These distinctions are laid down
and recognized so early as the cases of Button v. Downham,
Cro. Eliz. 642, Bedingfield v. Ashley, Cro Eliz. 741 , Roberts

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of the United States v. Waggener and others

3

v Tremayne, Cro. Jac. 507 The same doctrine has been
acted upon in modern times, as in Murray v. Harding, 2 W
Bl. 859, where Gould, justice, said that the ground and
foundation of all usurious contracts, is the corrupt agreement,
n Floyer v Edwards, Cowp. 112, in Hamrnett v. Yea, 1 Bos.
and Pull. 144, in Doe v. Gooch, 3 Barn. and Ald. 664, and
in Solarte v. Melville, 7 B. and Cres. 431.
The same principle would seem to apply to the prohibition
in the charter of the bank. There must be an intent to take
illegal interest, or, in the language of the law, a corrupt agreement to take it, in violation of the charter, and so it was stated
in the plea in the case of the Bank of the United States v.
Owens, 2 Peters 527. The quo animo is, therefore, an essential ingredient in all cases of this sort.
Now, it distinctly appears in the evidence, as has been
already stated, that no interest or discount whatsoever was
actually taken on the note, and on the face of the note, there
was no reservation of any interest but legal interest. So that
there has been no taking of usury, and no reservation of usury
on the face of the transaction. The case then resolves itself
into this inquiry whether, upon the evidence, there was any
corrupt agreement, or device, or shift, to reserve or take usury,
and in this aspect of the case, the quo animo, as well as the
acts of the parties, is most important.
With these principles in view, let us now proceed to the examination of the instructions prayed by the plaintiffs. The
substance of the first instruction is, that if the contract was
fairly made by the parties, without any intention to evade the
lawsagainst usury, but that the parties, making the contract,
intended to exchange credits for the accommodation of Owens;
that the Bank of Kentucky was solvent, and able to pay its
debts by coercion: then the contract was not void for usury, nor
contrary to the charter of the bank, notwithstanding the parties knew that the Bank of Kentucky did not pay specie for its
notes,without coercion, and that these notes were in exchange
at a depreciation of from thirty-three to forty per cent below par.
We are of opinion, that this instruction ought to have been
given. It excludes any intention of violating the laws against
usury, and it puts the case as a bona fide exchange of credits
for the accommodation of Owens. Such an exchange is not

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Bank of the United States v. Waggener and others.]

per se illegal, though it may be so, if it is a mere shift or device to cover usury. If the application be not for a loan of
money, but for an exchange of credits or commodities, which
the parties bona fide estimate at equivalent values, it seems
difficult to find any ground, on which to rest a legal objection
to the transaction. Because an article is depreciated in the
market, it does not follow that the owner is not entitled to demand or require a higher price for it, before he consents to part
with it. He may possess bank notes, which to him are of par
value, because he can enforce payment thereof, and for many
purposes they may pass current at par, in payments of his own
debts, or in payment of public taxes; and yet their marketable
value may be far less. If he uses no disguise, if he seeks not
to cover a loan of money under the pretence of a sale or exchange of them, but the transaction is, bona fide, what it purports to be, the law will not set aside the contract, for it is no
violation of any public policy against usury.
We are also of opinion, that the second instruction ought
for similar reasons to have been given, and indeed it stands
upon stronger grounds. It puts the case, that there was no
intention to violate the charter or the statute against usury,
that the contract was for the accommodation of Owens; that
the Bank of Kentucky was indebted to the plaintiffs in a sum
exceeding 10,000 dollars, bearing an interest of six per cent
(which the check would reduce pro tanto), that the Bank of
Kentucky was able to paVy the amount with interest in gold or
silver, and did pay it, after deducting the check of 3900 dollars, and then asserts that, under such circumstances, the contract was not usurious, unless the jury believe that the contract
was a shift or device entered into to avoid the statute against
usury, notwithstanding the check and the bank notes were in
point of fact of less value than gold and silver. So that in
fact, it puts the instruction upon the very point, upon which
the law itself puts transactions of this sort-the quo ammo of
the parties. Did they intend usury, and make use of any
shift or device to cover a loan of money ' Or did they, bona
fide, intend a loan of bank notes, which to the lender were of
the full value of their numerical amount, and were so treated
bona, fide by the borrower Q Unless the court were prepared
to say, (which we certainly are not) that all negotiations for
VOL. Ix.-S A

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of the United States v. Waggener and others.]

the sale or exchange of bank notes, under any circumstances,
must, to escape the imputation of usury, or the prohibition of
the charter, be merely at their marketable value at the time,
though worth more to both parties, the instruction was in its
terms unexceptionable.
The third instruction is governed by the same reasoning.
It puts the case, that the application was made for a loan, not
of money, but for notes of the Kentucky Bank, to the amount
of 5000 dollars, in consideration of the note sued on, that the
Bank of Kentucky was solvent and able to pay its notes, that
the holders thereof could, by reasonable diligence, have recovered the amount thereof, with interest at the rate of six per
cent per annum, and that there was no device or intent to
evade the statute against usury, or the prohibition of the charter;
and then asserts that under such circumstances the transaction
was not, in law, usurious. And here, it may be added, that if
the case was as stated, (and the evidence manifestly conduced
to establish it) it is clear that the plaintiffs could not, by the
regulation, entitle themselves to more interest than they were
already entitled to against the Bank of Kentucky. It would
be a mere exchange of securities, by which the plaintiffs did
not reserve and could not obtain more than the legal rate of
interest. If A holds the note of B for 100 dollars and legal
interest, and he exchange it with C for his note for the same
sum and legal interest, and B and C are both solvent, the
transaction in no manner trenches upon the statute against
usury.
The-fourth instruction puts the case in a more general form,
but the same principles apply to it.
The fifth instruction puts the case in the most pointed manner, whether there was an intended loan of money and a reservation of illegal interest, and a shift or device to cover it, and
evade the law by advancing something other than money on
the loan. If there was not, then it asserts (and in our judgment correctly) that the jury ought to find for the plaintiffs.
The sixth and seventh instructions fall under the same
considerations, and are equally unexceptionable.
The eighth instruction was properly refused, and ought not
to have been given. The court could not judicially say, that
there was no evidence conducing to prove that there was a

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Bank of the United States v. Waggener and others.]

loan by the plaintiffs to the defendants of the notes of the Bank
of Kentucky. There was evidence proper for the consideration of the jury, and the intent was to be gathered by them
from the whole circumstances of the transaction.
In regard to the instruction given by the court upon the
prayer of the defendants, it was probably given under the impression, that the case was governed by the decision of this
court, in the Bank of the United States v. Owens, 2 Peters
527. That case, however, in our opinion, turned upon considerations essentially different from those presented by the
present record. The questions certified in that case arose upon
a demurrer to a plea of usurv, and the demurrer in terms admitted, that the agreement was unlawfully, usuribusly and
corruptly entered into, so that no question as to the intention
of the parties, or the nature of the transaction was put. The
transaction was usurious, and the agreement corrupt, and the
question then was, whether, if so, it was contrary to the prohibitions of the charter, and the contract was void. In the
present case, the questions are very different. Whether the
agreement was corrupt and usurious, or bona fide, and without
any intent to commit usury or to violate the charter, are the
very points which the jury were called upon, under the instructions asked of the court, to decide. The decision in 2 Peters
527, cannot, therefore, be admitted to govern this, for the
quo animo of the act, as well as the act itself, constitute the
gist of the controversy.
In our opinion, the instruction asked by the defendants,
ought not to have been given. It excludes altogether any
consideration of the bona fides of the transaction, and the intention of the parties, whether innocent or usurious, and puts
the bar to the recovery, (after selecting a few facts) substantially upon the ground, that the bank notes loaned were a
known depreciated currency, passing in exchange and business at a discount of from thirty to forty per cent, and were
passed at their nominal amounts by the plaintiffs to the defendants, without any reference to the fact, whether there was.
any design to commit usury, or whether the notes were in
reality of a higher intrinsic value, or of their full nominal
value to the parties, or whether therpe was in the transaction
either a taking or a reservation of more than six per cent

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of the United States v. Waggener and others.]

interest contemplated by the parties. From what has been
already stated, these constituted the turning points of the case,
and the instruction could not properly be given without making them a part of the inquiries before the jury, upon which
their verdict was to turn.
Upon the whole, we are of opinion, that the first seven instructions prayed by the plaintiffs, ought to have been given to
the jury, and the instruction given by the court at the request of the defendants, ought to have been refused, and
therefore, for these errors, the judgment ought to be reversed,
and the cause remanded to the circuit court, with directions to
award a venire facias de novo.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the United States for the distnct of Kentucky, and was argued by counsel, on consideration whereof, it is the opinion of this court, that there is error
in the opinion of the circuit court of the district of Kentucky,
in refusing to give the instructions prayed for by the plaintiffs
in their first, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh instructions, prayed for in the bill of exceptions stated, and there
is also error in the opinion of the court in giving the instruction prayed for by the defendants in the same bill of exceptions
stated. It is, therefore, considered by the court that, for the
errors aforesaid, the judgment of the said circuit court be, and
the same is hereby reversed and annulled, and that the cause
be remanded to the circuit court with directions to award a
venire facias de novo.

