JANUARY TERM 1835.

THE CHESAPEAKE AND OHIO CANAL

COMPANY, PLAINTIFFS

IN ERROR V ABRAHADI KNAPP AND OTHERS.
District of Columbia. An action of indebitatus assumpsit was instituted to
recover a large sum of money, alleged to be due for the construction of
certain locks, &c. on the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal. The defendants
pleaded the general issue, and called on the plaintiffs for a bill of particulars.
The item of claim upon which the jury gave a verdict for the plaintiffs,
was stated in the bill of particulars to be, " detention and -damage sustained
for want of cement on locks No. 5 and 6."
There is no doubt that a bill of particulars should be so specific as to inform
the defendant, substantially, on what the plaintiff's action is founded. This
is the object of the bill, and if it fall short of this, its tendency must be to
mislead the defendant rather than to enlighten him.
As the bill of particulars is filed before the trial, it is always in the power of
the defendant to object to its want of precision, and the court will require
it to be amended before the commencement of the trial, and if this be not
the only mode of taking advantage of any defect in the bill, it is certainly
the most convenient for the parties.
Although this bill of particulars does not specify technically and fully, the
grounds on which the plaintiffs claim damages, it sufficiently expresses to
the defendants that the claim arises for want of cement on locks No. 5 and 6.
The ancient doctrine, that a corporation can act in matters of contract, only
under its seal, has been departed from by modern decisions; and it is now
considered that the agents of a corporation may, in many cases, bind it and
subject it to an action of assumpsit.
There can be no doubt, that when a special contract remains open, the plaintiff's remedy is on the contract, and he must set it forth specially in his declaration. But if the contract has been put an end to, the action for money
had and received lies to recover any payment that has been made under it.
It is a well settled principle, that where a special contract has been performed, a plaintiff may recover on the general counts.
The court ought not to instruct, and indeed cannot instruct, on the sufficiency
of evidence, but no instruction to the jury should be given except upon
evidence in the case. Where there is evidence on a point, the court may
be called upon to instruct the jury on the law, but it is for them to determine on the effect of evidence.

IN error to the circuit court of the United States for the county
of Washington, in the District of Columbia.
This was an action of assumpslt, instituted originally in the
county court of Montgomery county, in the state of Maryland,
and by agreement of the parties transferred, with all the pleadings, depositions and other proceedings therein, to the circuit

SUPREME COURT.
[Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company v. Knapp and others.]

court of the United States for the county of Washington, in

the District of Columbia.
The declaration contained nine counts: the first. second and
third, for goods sold and delivered, the fourth, fifth, eighth and
ninth, for work, labour and services, and for materials furnished,
&c., the sixth, for money paid, laid out and expended, and for
money had and received for the use of the plaintiffs, and the
seventh, an insimul computassent. The defendants pleaded
non assumpsit, and issue was joined thereon. A rule having
been entered on the plaintiffs to file a bill of particulars, the
same was duly filed, setting forth all the items of claim against
the defendants.
The plaintiffs, in the circuit court, had, on the 4th day of
May 1829, entered into articles of agreement with the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company, to execute certain sections of
the canal, then being made by the company, according to certain specifications before agreed upon by the parties. Under
this agreement the plaintiffs constructed eight locks on the
canal, and this action was brought for the value of the work
done, and materials expended on the same, and for other matters
which had arisen under the agreement.
The only item in the bill of particulars which was deemed material, and which came under examination and discussion by the counsel and the court, in the argument and decision
of the cause, was the following
"To detention for want of cement at proper times at locks
No. 8, 15, 16, 17, 18 and 20, damages sustained in consequence of such detention 600 dollars.
The defendants in error read in evidence the specification
for I,lock No. 6, and their offer to contract for the construction of
the said lock, on the terms therein stated, and also a paper
containing their proposal to execute the said lock, according
to the plan and the specification, and they proved that the proposals were acce~ted. They also read the agreement between
them and the Canal Company, dated the 4th of May 1828,
for the construction of the work pursuant thereto and also
like specifications and proposals, and their acceptance by the
parties, for the execution of the other eight locks, and the contract for the same, the execution of the work to be done by
them under the said- contract, being also proved. The specifications particularly described the work to be done, the mate-

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company v. Knapp and others.]

rials to be used, and the manner and time of its execution. In
the specifications there was inserted the following
"It is believed that hydraulic cement, suitable for the construcuon of lock masonry, may be obtained on the Potomac,
as far east as Shepherdstown.
"Its average cost, it is presumed, will not exceed 40 cents
the bushel, delivered at the shore opposite the locks, should it
be found not suitable for the purpose,-and it become necessary
to import the New York hydraulic cement, or Parker's Roman
cement, the president and directors will furnish to the contractor cement so imported, in good season, say by the 1st of
May 1829, at the price of 40 cents the bushel, which shall be
deducted from the sum to be paid for the lock if the contractor
furnished the cement himself. The extent of its use, if it be
so supplied, may be limited by the engineer to a certain distance from the face of the wall."
The proposals stated the prices at which the work was to be
done, and the agreement set forth stipulations for the performance of the work, and the sums to be paid for the same,
with other matters to secure and define the obligations of the
parties thereto.
The plaintiffs also offered, and read in evidence, thefollowing
resolution of the President and Directors of the Canal Company, passed the 2d day of September 1829
"Ordered, That the board will furnish water lime to such
contractors for masonry as shall provide houses to receive it, to
be delivered at the river shore, opposite to their works, at 40
cents per bushel."
And also the following resolution of the said president and
directors, passed the 20th of January 1830.
"Resolved, That although this board has stipulated to supply the contractors with water lime, yet the board will not be
held responsible for any damage arising from the want of that
article."
And also the answer of Theophilus Williams, to an interrogatory on the part of the plaintiffs.
"To the thirty-second annexed interrogatory this deponent
replies, that the plaintiffs were very greatly hindered in their
operations by the want of cement. This deponent has no written memoranda of the time which the plaintiffs were so hindered, but believes that the time lost by the failure of the

SUPREME COURT
[Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company v. Knapp and others.]

defendants to furnish cement, was not less than one-third of
the whole time from the 1st of April to the 1st of August 1830,
and this deponent can further state, that the opinion of the late
resident engineer, Daniel Van Slyke, Esq., agreed with that of
this deponent above stated, as to the proportion of the time lost
by the plaintiffs for want of cement. Orders were given to the
plaintiffs not to discharge their men when idle for want of

cement, but to retain them all under pay until a supply could
be procured. This order had not reference to any one particular time when the plaintiffs were hindered for want of cement.
The deponent was directed by the resident engineer to communicate the order to the plaintiffs, and did accordingly communicateitto them. This was the usualcourse of transmitting
orders to the contractors for the different works on the Chesapeake and Ohio canal. This deponent received the same
order at several different times from the president of the company It was reiterated to the plaintiffs at various times, and
was, as this deponent believes, strictly complied with by them.
This order, as well as that referred to in the answer to the
twentieth, was, according to this deponent's recollection, verbally given. This deponent cannot state with accuracy, to
what extent the plaintiffs were delayed for want of cement
previous to the 1st of April, but thinks there was some considerable for want of cement before that time. From what this
deponent recollects of the number of men and teams employed
by the plaintiffs, and the high wages paid to labourers generally, and more particularly to mechanics, and the expense of
subsisting men and teams, this deponent is fully convinced
that, including the wages of labourers and mechanics, the subsistence of men and teams, and the wear and tear of tools, the
expense of the plaintiffs must have averaged, while hindered
for want of cement, from 150 to 175 dollars a day. The deponent cannot say with exactness what number of days the
plaintiffs were compelled to suspend their operations for want
of cement, but thinks the whole detention may have been equal
to from thirty to forty entire days."
And also the answer of Milo Winchel, to an interrogatory
on the part of the plaintiffs.
" To the ninth interrogatory, this dieponent answering, says
that the defendants delivered the cement very irregularly, in
small quantities, which caused very great hindrance and loss

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company v Knapp and others.]

of time, and expense to these plaintiffs, by keeping a very large
force of mechanics, common labourers, and teams, lying idle
and upon expense of wages and board, whilst waiting for cement, the precise loss and damage incurred deponent cannot
state, but, from his best recollection, would say, that the loss
of time thus incurred, from the 1st of March 1830 until the
completion of the said locks in August, therefrom, could not be
less than forty days, at an expense to these plaintiffs of from
160 dollars to 170 dollars per day, besides the damage was
very serious by delaying the work until the sickly months of
July and August, which was the cause of a great advance in
all kinds of labour, to induce labourers to remain upon the line
of the canal at this season of the year, all this expense and
risk might have been saved to these plaintiffs, had the cement
been furnished as agreed on the part of the defendants, which
would have enabled the plaintiffs to have completed the whole
of their work early in June 1830."
And also the answer of Henry Smith, to an Interrogatory
on the part of the plaintiffs.
"To the eleventh interrogatory this deponent will answer,
that much delay was occasioned to the plaintiffs by the non
delivery of cement, in quantities to meet their demands, the
consequence was, they were compelled to keep their hands
under pay without labour, and deferring the completion of
their work until the- more sickly season, when labour, if
procured at all, was obtained at an advance from twenty to
thirty-three per cent. It is believed by this deponent, that if
sufficient quantities had been delivered in season, that the locks
would have been comleted by the 4th of July That, at the
time locks No. 18 and 20 were in progress, the plaintiffs often
complained of a scarcity of cement, and one particular time
they were lying idle for a number of days with a large force of
hands, and, as deponent understood at the time, they were all
under pay from the plaintiffs. The number of days alluded to
above is believed to be two weeks or more, and many other
times deponent knows of there being a want of cement, but the
aggregate cannot be positively stated."
And also the answer of Moses Randal, to an interrogatory
on the part of the plaintiffs.
"To the eighth interrogatory, hereunto annexed, this depoVOL. IX.-3 T

SUPREME COURT.
[Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company v. 1napp and others.]

nent, answering, says that these plaintiffs were greatly mndered and delayed, nearly the whole time they were employed
in building these locks, by the irregular manner in which the
cement was delivered, and -that the amount of such hindrance
upon locks No. 15, 16, 17, 18 and 20, from the 1st of March
1830, till their completion in August following, was not less
than forty entire days, at an expense to these plaintiffs of 170
dollars per day There were eighteen days at one time in which
the plaintiffs received but two small loads of cement for the use
of two hundred men, being insufficient to supply them one day;
besides the damage was very serious by protracting the work
until the sickly months of July and August, which was the
cause of a great advance in all kinds of labour, to induce the
labourers to remain upon the line of the canal at this season of
the year. All this risk might have been saved to these plaintiffs, had the cement been furnished as promised on the part of
the defendants, which would have enabled the plaintiffs to have
completed their whole work early in June 1830, and deponent
further says, that the plaintiffs suffered great hindrance and
loss by the interference of the work under Messrs Bargy
and Guy, on section 18, by the breaking of the face stone,
by coming in contact with their carts and wagons, and by
the men being driven from their work many times in a day to
escape the dangers from the heavy rock blasting upon said section, the damage done to the plaintiffs during this interference
deponent cannot precisely state, but knows it was great. This
deponent recollects that, in one instance, on lock 18, a large
rock was thrown against the wing wall of the lock, and so deranged several courses of their work as to require relaying, in
several other instances, the work of the plaintiffs, on locks 17
and 18, was deranged by the falling stones breaking and displacing the cut stones in the wall. The plaintiffs remonstrated
against these Injuries, and threatened to abandon the work, in
consequence of which, Daniel Van Slyke, the agent of the
defendants, agreed to indemnify them against all damages
arising from this source."
And also the answers of Benjamin Wright, to interrogatones put to him by the plaintiffs.
"To the ninth interrogatory he saith, that he knows, that
in many cases, the cement was very bad, in others, the same
was damaged, by having been allowed to get wet before de-

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company v. Knapp and others.]

livery to the plaintiffs. That it was furnished by the defendants in small quantities, and in a verv irregular manner,
and in many cases not furnished at the times agreed upon between the plaintiffs and defendants; it being expressly understood between the plaintiffs and defendants, that the cement
should, at all times, be furnished as it was required for the
prosecution of the work.
"To the tenth interrogatory he saith, that he knows the
plaintiffs were put to serious loss and damage, in consequence
of the failure of the defendants in supplying cement, as stated
in the last interrogatory, the said plaintiffs being obliged to
keep their labourers and mechanics in pay when they were
actually unemployed, said plaintiffs being in the daily expectation of receiving the said cement, which state of things continued, in some instances, for a week together, and at others
for two, four and six days, and deponent further knows, that,
in consequence of such failure on the part of the defendants to
furnish the cement at the periods agreed upon, the work of
the plaintiffs was necessarily protracted to the sickly part of
the season, which necessarily caused a great increase in the
wages of the mechanics and labourers to induce them to remain during the said period. Deponent further saith, that he
knows that the president of the company, on many occasions,
directed the plaintiffs not to dismiss their men, stating, from
time to time, that he would have cement furnished, which, in
many cases, was not furnished in compliance with his assurances, but deponent cannot say what was the actual loss incurred by the plaintiffs, although, as above stated, he believes
it to have been very serious."
Upon which testimony, the plaintiffs prayed the court to
instruct the jury, and they' did, on the said prayer, instruct
the jury, that if the jury believe, from the said evidence, that
the defendants had, on the 2d day of September 1829, and
from that time till the 20th day of January 1830, contracted
with the plaintiffs to furnish them with cement, &c., in due
time, &c., and that the plaintiffs, expecting that sufficient supplies of cement to go on with the work would be furnished by
the defendants, as defendants had so engaged to do, hired a
large number of hands, and brought them to the locks, and
tvhen the defendants had so failed to furnish the cement, kept
the same hands idle, waiting for cement, on the defendants'

SUPREME COURT
[Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company v. Knapp and others.]

desire that they should do so, in order to be ready to go on
with the work, and paid them their wages while so waiting,
then the plaintiffs- are entitled, under the count, for money laid
out and expended, contained in this declaration, to recover the
money so paid to said hands, during such periods. But that
the plaintiffs are not entitled to recover for wages paid to their
workmen on account of a deficiency of cement after the said
20th day of January 1830, unless the jury shall be satisfied by
the said evidence, that the said resolution of the board of directors, of the 20th of January 1830, was rescinded by the
said board, and a new contract entered into thereafter by the
defendants to furnish cement to the plaintiffs, and the subsequent failure on their part so to furnish it, and an agreement
also to pay for the wages of the plaintiffs' workmen, while so
waiting, and so forth.
The defendants excepted to this instruction.
The jury found a verdict for the plaintiffs for 20,707 dollars
and 56 cents, on which judgment was entered by the court,
and the defendants prosecuted this court of error.
The case was argued by Mr Coxe and Mr Southard, for the
plaintiffs in error, and by Mr Key and Mr Webster, for the
defendants.
The counsel for the plaintiffs in error contended, that the
court erred in giving the instruction
"Because there was no notice or intimation given by the
plaintiffs to the defendants, in their bill of particulars of charge
against the defendants for money laid out or expended in the
payment of wages to workmen while kept idle waiting for
cement.
"Because the court, in the said instruction, has adjudged on
a matter of fact, and told the jury that the defendants had engaged or contracted to deliver cement at certain times and
prices, and had failed to furnish the said cement, which said
facts ought to have been left to the jury upon the evidence.
"Because, admitting the existence of such a contract, and
the failure to comply therewith on the part of the defendants,
the payment of wages by the plaintiffs to their workmen while
idle, waiting for cement, and the loss thereby, could only be

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company v. Knapp and others.]

recovered in a distinct action by the plaintiffs against the
defendants for the breach of such contract.
"Because the court, in the said instruction, has submitted
the fact of an agreement on the part of the defendants, to pay
for the wages of the plaintiffs' workmen, while so waiting and.
idle, without any evidence of such an agreement being proved
or offered to be proved."
Mr Coxe, for the plaintiffs in error, stated, that the amount
of the sum originally claimed by the plaintiffs in the circuit
court, was 141,000 dollars and upwards, and most of the items
in their claim were rejected so that the demand was reduced
to comparatively an inconsiderable sum. It "was upon the
instructions of the court, which are for examination here, that
the recovery was had by the verdict of the jury
There was a contract in writing between the parties, and
the evidence proved a full performance of every part of it in
every particular, by the plaintiffs in error. There were some
defects in the work, and in the manner of its performance, which
operated very extensively on the claims of the defendants in
error. Some modifications were made in the agreement of the
parties, some extra work was done, for which claims, opposed
by the Canal Company, were made, and these were rejected.
The istruction, now under consideration, which was excepted to by the plaintiffs in error, was erroneous
1. Because the claim which it sanctions is not in the bill of
particulars. The bill of particulars states the claim to be for
"detention and damages," in consequence of such detention for
want of cement, and the instruction authorises the defendants
in error, to recover before the jury for money laid out and expended on the count in the declaration, the money having
been paid to their hands while waiting for the cement.
The company had not agreed to furnish cement. There
was no express contract to do so. The supply they were to
furnish depended on their obtaining the article, either on the
canal, or in New York, or elsewhere. It was a proposition,
which, having been accepted, was not binding unless the means
of executing it were procured.
This was the state of the arrangements between the parties,
before the time limited in the contract expired , and it was

SUPREME COURT.
[Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company v. Knapp and others.]

not afterwards renewed. Thus on the evidence, there was
no foundation for the instruction. The proof to establish it
failed. The evidence showed that there was not a deficiency
until after the 30th of December 1829. The deficiency which
,took place in the spring and summer of 1830, could not be
made the subject of a claim.
The whole instruction rests on the assumption, that the
money was paid at the instance of the company There was
no evidence of such a request, and the court so decided in their
previous ruling on the trial. Cited, Angel on Corporations 60,
and the cases collected.
By a reference to the charter of the company under the
Virginia law, the power given to the company to act, and the
manner in which contracts binding on the company are to be
made, will be seen. The agreements which are held to bind
the company, in this case, do not conform to those provisions.
No contract is to be inferred from the confessions, or the casual
conversations of the directors, or any of them. 7 Cowen 462.
The circuit court left it to the jury to infer that the contract had been rescinded, without a particle of evidence, and
they left it also to the jury to infer a new contract, when there
was no testimony to sustain it. The claim to recover on the
count for money laid out and expended, is against the authorities. Cited, 1 Tidd's Practice 537, 13 Petersdorf 80, 3
Stark. 1055, 1056,
Bos. and Pull. 243.
The instruction is upon the effect of evidence, or rather it
is positive that certain matters had been proved. This was
contrary to the principles of law regulating the trial by jury
The action of rndebitatus assumpsit cannot be sustained for
such a cause. Selwyn's N. P 61. This action will only lie
where debt will lie, and a recovery of this kind cannot be had
on such a general count. There should have been a special
count, setting out all the circumstances, and alleging the liability of the Canal Company to furnish the cement by the
contract. 6 East 569, 570.
Mr Key, for the defendants in error.
The bill of exceptions is sufficiently descriptive of the demand of the plaintiffs in the circuit court. It gave the defendants notice of the nature of the claim. If it was not, they

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company v. Knapp and others ]

could have called for a further specification, and this court
will not allow an objection to be made here, which was not
presented for the consideration of the court below. As to the
effect of the bill of particulars, cited I Holt's Nisi Prius 552,
9 Wheat. 581.
Had the objection been made below, the plaintiffs would,
under the law of Maryland of 1785, ch. 8, sect. 4, have had
the privilege of amending, even after the jury were sworn.
As to the objection that the court has undertaken to in.
struct the jury on matter of fact it is said that the court
adjudged that the Canal Company had undertaken to furnish
the cement. This is not so, the whole is put hypothetically.
This court will not be disposed to construe the action of the
circuit court unfavourably. The instruction assumes no facts
the court left the case and the evidence which was given, to
the jury
As to the objection that the action could not be sustained
by the evidence offered under the bill of particulars cited, 1
Selwyn's Nisi Prius 60, Moses v. M'Farland, Burrow 1008,
Perkins v Hart, 11 Wheat. 237.
The evidence supported the claim stated in the bill of particulars. If there had been no evidence, it is admitted the instruction was erroneous, but the depositions of a number of
witnesses prove the deficiency of cement, and the wages paid
by the contractors while waiting for it. The court is particularly referred to this testimony
It is contended, that the acts of the president and directors,
and the agents of the company, as proved in the depositions,
were not binding upon the Canal Company. These actswere m
the-course of their duty, and the pnnciples settled by this court
in the cases of the Bank of Columbia v Patterson, 9 Cranch
299, 2 Cond. Rep. 501, The Bank of the United States v.
Dandridge, 11 Wheat. 64, 6 Cond. Rep. 444, support this
evidence. The evidence is that of the agents of the company,
that they received and communicated the orders of the board
of directors to the contractors to keep their hands, and they
would pay them. It is said there should have been a record
of the acts of the board upon this matter, and that only such a
record would be evidence. This, it is considered, was an objection to the evidence, which cannot be taken here. But the

SUPREME COURT.
[Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company v. Knapp and others.]

law does not require this evidence. The testimony was offered
to show the contract, and was so received.
The counsel in the court below allowed the evidence to be
given, and took the chance of its influence, and they now
come into this court and make objections to it.
Mr Webster, also for the defendants in error.
The proceedings in this court are on a writ of error to revise
a judgment of the circuit court, in a case in which the plaintiffs below were creditors of the Canal Company, and sought
the recovery of their claim, of which, on the demand of the
defendants, they furnished a bill of particulars. It seems they
met in the case all the obstacles usually presented in actions
against corporations. There were more than the usual exceptions taken in this cause, even in cases in this district. The
record shows this. Many parts of the evidence were excluded
by exceptions taken by the defendants, and upon what was
left, out of a claim for upwards of five times the amount, a
verdict for upwards of 20,000 dollars was obtained.
On the writ of error in this court nothing can be brought
under an examination, but the accuracy of the motion ruled in
the court below The precise inquiry in the case is, does the
bill of exceptions present a question for a decision of the court,
which could be required of the court on the counts in the declaration l
The law of bills of particulars is settled. If the bill of particulars refers to the particulars of the matter excepted to, without
being sufficiently definite, exception should be taken to'it and
a further demand made. In this case no such demand was
made, and under this general bill of particulars the party
went to trial, and no question was made before the trial, as to
its sufficiency.
It is said, that when the evidence was given it was not
known how it would be applied, but this might have been
brought to light by asking instructions of the court. The
party introducing it cannot say, "I will show you hereafter
how the evidence will apply"
If the party against whom the
evidence is offered admits it, he may ask the court to instruct
the jury it does not apply
The bill of particulars shows that the claims of the plaintiffs

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company v. Knapp and others.]

below were for wages paid, while waiting for cement, and
that there was a deficiency of cement. This was enough, unless the defendants had asked for more, which they could
have done. The evidence was within the bill of particulars,
and was fully authorized by it.
The ruling complained of is a ruling in matters of law, and
not of evidence. It is not a ruling as to the character of the
evidence. It was the effect of the ruling of the law, upon a
supposed state of evidence. Although it is admitted that there
must be some evidence, yet it was not necessary it should be
strong. The question for the jury was the effect of the evidence. The questions presented are 1st, Was there any evidence on this poi't 2d. Was the ruling right ' The rule
against stating speculative cases cannot apply. There must
be evidence to raise the question out of which the points are to
be presented to the court. If there was any evidence, it was
enough, to sustain the ruling of the court, that the question
should be given to the jury upon it.
Was there such evidence, good or insufficient, to submit the
case2 The evidence was various, and that of one of the witnesses, Mr Wright, was paiticularly applicable The directors,
at a meeting in the counting-house of the treasurer of the
company, agreed, that the company would pay the contractors
for their losses by the want of cement.
If this evidence was against an individual, it would be sufficient and competent. If it was objectionable as irregular, as
it was against a corporation, it should have been excepted to.
It was admitted without an exception. The admission of it,
on the trial, is equivalent to an agreement in writing to allow
it to be given. Evidence given on a trial without objection,
cannot afterwards be made the subject of an exception. By
this evidence it appears, that the engineers and officers of the
company, assured the contractors they should be paid, and this
with the authority of the directors.
The resolution of the board of directors, that they would not
pay damages for the failure of the company to deliver cement,
was the act of the plaintiffs in error. The contractors did not
assent to this determination, nor were damages claimed by
the defendants in error. The claim is for the actual pecuniary expenses paid by them, while waiting for the cement.
VOL. ix.-3 u

SUPREME COURT.
[Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company v. Knapp and others.]

But if this resolution could operate, the evidence shows that it
was afterwards rescinded or disregarded, by the officers of the
canal company
The instruction given to the jury was well given, under
another view of the case. The instruction involves the question of law, whether the plaintiffs in the circuit court could
recover for the wages paid their men while waiting for cement,
under the count in the declaration for money paid, laid out,
&c. Whether the evidence authorised such a recovery under
this count, has been disregarded in the argument for the
plaintiff in error. The defendants had prayed the court
to instruct the jury, that no recovery could be had unless a
new contract was proved. This was denied by the plaintiffs. The instruction is thus put hypothetically; and it should
be so read by this court, interposing before each statement, "if
the jury believe ;" add thus it will be manifest that the court
left all the matters to the jury. The bill of particulars in this
aspect of the case, had nothing to do with the questions thus
left to the jury. The evidence given was before the jury, and
for the plaintiffs, without any other than
they found upon ,it
the legitimate action of the court upon the facts.
Mr Southard, for the plaintiffs in error.
The plaintiffs in error complain of an instruction given to
the jury in the court below.
To understand the instruction and test its validity, it is necessary to consider 1. The nature of the action. 2. The
claim made by the plaintiffs below 3. The specific evidence
to which the charge related. 4. The legality of the evidence
in this action. 5. The legality of it in the precise circumstances in which it was offered. These points embrace not
only the views presented by the plaintiff in error, but those by
which they have been resisted.
1. The action. It is indebitatus assumpsit. What may be
recovered in this action 2
Technically, and practically, there are two kinds of assumpsit, as distinct as other forms of action. 1. A special assumpsit,
when the plaintiff sets forth the breach of which he complains.
In this he has to set out a specific agreement, and the breach

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company v. Knapp and others.]

of it, both of which he must prove. This was clearly not
done in this case.
2. Indebitatus assumpsit. It is in its nature an action of
debt, and is substituted for it, because the defendant is not
permitted in it, as he may in an action of debt, to wage his
law. 4 Co. 91 , 3 Wooddison 168. Its precise character is
Important, especially as one of thecounselfor the defendantshas
thrown himself on this point, and suggested that it had been
disregarded in the opening argument. It is, however, without difficulty.
The rule laid down is universal, although questioned by
lord Mansfield, in 2 Burrow 1088, the case cited by the defendants in error. It is established, that the form of indebitatus
assumpsit will lie in no case in which debt will not lie, although
debt will lie when it will not be sustained. 1 Salk. 23.
In this action the cause of the debt must be stated, but it
must be concisely, yet if not stated, it is error, or is reason for
arrest of judgment, Cio. James 206, 207, because the court
must see that there is matter on which the assumpsit may be
founded. In stating the matter, general forms, called common
counts, have been long settled, and it is an inquiry that may
be proved under them.
It will be lawful to prove any fixed, settled and determinate
sum, arising on a precise contract, where the sum is, or may be,
reduced to certainty, such as fees due by custom, for tolls,
or on a foreign judgment. But you cannot recover in it any
thing which is not of a definite character. Salk. 23, Lord
Raym. 69. It is common to avoid this difficulty by setting out,
in a special count, the contract by which the money is claimed, and then if a failure to prove the contract takes place, the
general counts may be resorted to. But the special contract
must be set out, if there is to be a recovery upon it.
Among the common counts, " money paid, laid out, &c." is
the most frequent. The law, in such cases, implies a promise
of repayment, and there must be such a promise, express or
implied. 8 Term Rep. 310, 610, 1 Term Rep. 20.
If the promise is express, it must be so stated, as when one
pays to one in his own employ wages for the benefit of another,
there must be an express contract stated and proved, or there
is no consideration.

SUPREME COURT.
[Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company v. Knapp and others.1

These are the very elementary principles in this action; and
they would'not have been repeated, but they have been brought
into question by the adversary argument. The proper conclusions from them are-1. That you cannot recover under a
general count, what is founded on a special agreement, without
setting out that agreement, and if it be permitted, there is
error somewhere in the progress of the cause. 2. That you
cannot claim unascertained damages, resulting from the violation of an agreement, if you do thus recover, there is equal
error.
The suggestion that every thing recovered in the action
must be damages, was made without precision of thought, or of
expression. Damages are nominally, technically, recovered in
this action, but this is the description given to the amount of
debt which is recovered, and the sum which may be assessed
by court or jury, for an injury sustained, an account stated, an
agreement to deliver grain at a given price, an ingredient of
which, is the benefit to be derived from the possession and sale
of it. When, therefore, it is complained, that damages have
been recovered in this form of action, it means the latter, not
the former kind. If they can, it should be shown how they
can be recovered. This is now to be considered.
2. What is the case before the court q What is the claim
The case stated is on all the common counts, but only one
comes in question here that of "money paid by plaintiffs
for defendants' use." This is important to the precise understanding of the legal questions raised.
What is this count I For money paid. How pretended to
have been paid2 Not on any legal liability, as surety or
otherwise, but upon an express contract. What is the contract pretended q That the defendants had promised to furnish water lime, had failed so to do, and when the plaintiffs
were suffering from the same, they promised, if they would
not leave the work, would retain their hands, and pay them,
they would refund the amount paid. A more special contract
cannot be set out a more specific claim for damages cannot
be made.
Take it in parts. 1. A promise to furnish water lime, and a
failure. Could damages be recovered for these'
This need
not be argued. 2. If you wilt keep and pay your hands, we

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Chesapeake and Olo Canal Company v. Knapp and others.]

will save you harmless. The payment of the hands is but a
part of the agreement, and the damages follow. Is this varied by the promise to pay q If it is, it must be applicable alike
to all other damages, for this was only a part, and the promises related to all.
It appears clear, then, that there has been in the case a recovery which is against law, and the inquiry is, can this court
now arrest it or has the cause been so managed below, that
the eye of the judge cannot reach it, his ear is closed, and violations of law are to be sanctioned. The answers are to be
found in the instruction whichas now resisted.
The history of the instruction is essential to the correct understanding of it. The plaintiffs claimed 140,000 dollars, on
various accounts. They presented a bill of particulars, containing the items which formed this amount. At the trial,
they offered proof of them, but they were-all overruled-explicitly and without a single exception overruled. This is a
strong leading fact in the cause. There was a stage in the
trial when the court had laid down the law, excluding every
item in the bill of particulars. This fully appears on the
record.
The decisions of the court upon the claims of the plaintiffs,
embrace, 1. The construction of all the locks, and the labour
upon them, and the damages for not complying with the agreement, &c. The evidence given on the trial must have applied
to one or other of those heads.
First, as to the work, and the price of it. The contract
prices had been paid. This is expressly shown in the record.
Thus, the contract was established, and the prices were fixed,
and the accounts had been presented according to it and paid.
All therefore in the bill of particulars, which relates to all the
work contracted for at first, had been settled.
The effort of the plaintiffs was to obtain, not the contract
pnces which had been stipulated, but a higher price, a quantum valebat, or meruit, and the court expressly decided that
this could not be. All the extra price, therefore, was out of
the case, and this one decision left less than the amount recovered, as will be seen on an examination of the bill of particulars. This clearly shows, that in the further progress of the

SUPREME COURT.
[Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company v. Knapp and others.]

case, there was some error which admitted matters to wrong
the defendants below
2. There were changes and modifications in the work, and
some of the items were founded on them. For these the plaintiffs sought to recover their value, but the court ruled that
they, also, must be governed by the contract, and that as the
engineers were to estimate for them, and to settle controversies
respecting them, their decision was to be conclusive, and no
erroneous estimate, at a previous time, or by other persons,
could alter it. The contract, and the instruction given upon
it, will fully establish these positions, and show that all these
items were overruled.
3. The plaintiff claimed damages on the subject of injuries
sustained on a contract to furnish lime. Whether this contract
was found in the original agreement, or in some subsequent
one, it was all met by the court. The principle they sustained
n the previous instructions, was, that in this action, damages
for the breach of a special contract could not be claimed and
recovered.
4. The plaintiffs were hurried to, finish the work by the 4th
of July 1830, and they claimed damages in the form of higher
wages, thirty-three per cent advance on these wages. But the
answers to this are, 1. The defendants had, by the contract,
a right urge them at any time. 2. The evidence of this was
the sayings of the president, which are clearly inadmissible to
bind the company to pay damages. 3. This was long after
the time in which the contract was to be completed, and there
was no evidence -that the time was extended. This matter
was then overruled.
In these decisions of the court, on the several claims stated,
all the claims of the plaintiffs, it is repeated, were overruled by
the court in their previous instructions. Not an item in the
bill of the plaintiffs can be found, to which one or other of the
instructions of the court had not applied.
If any exception from this position could be found, it was
wages of the men dunng the detention, as alleged, from the
want of cement. But these are manifestly independent of any
contract to pay them, and they were damages from breach of
contract, as purely so, as any other evil resulting from the
neglect of the defendants on this point.

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company v. Knapp and others.]

Whether they can be removed from this condition, by what
occurred in the subsequent part of the case, will be hereafter
considered. Whether the court did right or not, in thus excluding the plaintiffs from evidence, or the effect of evidence in
these particulars, is not now the question. The plaintiffs below
have recovered, and come here to sustain the judgment, and
this they cannot do by showing the court erred in deciding
against them on other points. This is clear and is admitted.
Nor is it necessary to discuss the conduct of the circuit court,
in admitting these various instructions. The practice is peculiar to that court, and the courts of Maryland. No one can
conduct a case in safety under it. Not fact and justice, but
skill, must triumph, or the prejudices of the court and jurors
prevail.
But it is more important to remark, that these instructions
are a substitute for the practice which prevails elsewhere, of
taking exceptions to the admission of evidence, or claiming the
rejection of evidence. And this is an answer to the suggestion,
that the defendants should have objected to, and have asked
the court to overrule the evidence.
After this long examination, we have reached a position
clear of difficulty , and can observe the action of the court in
the instruction, which is the subject of examination on this
writ of error. We have a claim, by the plaintiffs below, for a
debt, the particulars of that debt, a written contract with
the defendants by which it was limited , and the overruling of
every item in that bill, except such as were proved to have
been paid. The result of this state of things to the plaintiffs,
was inevitable.
To escape from it the plaintiffs sought an instruction on one
specific point. It was in relation to the payment of wages on
locks No. 5 and 6. It applied to no other locks. It was
wages there, and on these locks only. This is a full answer
to all the references to the evidence in the case. There is no
evidence relating to these locks, all the testimony relates to
other locks.
The language of the instruction must be confined to this
point, and the importance of so confining it is apparent.
1. Because damages with regard to all the other locks had
been excluded, and all damages for the want of cement.

SUPREME COURT.
[Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company v. Knapp and others.)

2. The claim was under a contract to pay the wages on these,
and not on others. 3. If it extended to others, it will produce
the result of making the court directly contradict itself, having
in eleven previous exceptions laid down other rules. 4. Because it was asked respecting two locks only, and if such a
construction be given to it, as applies to others, an immense
amount of damages is let in, ten times greater then is asked
under this instrucfion. 5. Wages, as such, had been overruled, as damages these are to be brought in, because there
was a special contract.
If the instruction be liable to such an interpretation, it was
error. The jury were not guided by it, but they were rmsled.
On a particular examination of the instruction, it will be
found to have two parts, as to time , from the 2d of September
1829 to the 30th of January 1830 and after the 30th of
January, the jury are told, that if they believe, 1st. That
between the 2d of September 1829 and the 20th of January
1830, the defendants had contracted to deliver water lime,
2. That the plaintiffs expected it, 3. That hands were kept
idle, and were paid by the plaintiffs, 4. That the defendants
requested this, and promised to pay for the same. the plaintiffs
might recover the sums so paid, under the count in the declaration for money laid out and expended.
This is not for damages, for that had been overruled, but
upon a special contract, and that contract was not stated.
The cases referred to in a previous part of the argument
have, therefore, full application to this ruling of the court.
The second part of the instruction proves that this was the
view of the court. They regard the contract as evidenced by
the order of the 2d of September 1829, and rescinded by that
of the 30th of January 1830.
The instruction then was, that there was a contract, and
wages paid on account of it, between the 2d of September 1829
and the 30th of January following. Let us examine if this
was correct, in point of law.
1. There was no notice of such a claim. What notice was
given' The bill of particulars. It states detention and damages for want of cement on looks 5 and 6, 600 dollars. The
case cited shows, and it is admitted, that the bill of particulars,
in such actions, must refer to the matters claimed, clearly and

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company v. Knapp and others.]

distinctly. Here a contract for the payment of wages, is embraced under the words "detention" and "damages." Do
they embrace it Q There is no reference to the contract in
the notice, no information of the ground of claim. Could the
defendants suppose that under it a specific contract was to be
proved q They knew that detention and damages could not be
proved. There is a most marked distinction between them.
Cited, 2 Bos. and Pull. 243, Tidd's Practice 537, Stark.
Evid. 1056, 4 Taunt. 189. The claim presented to the jury
in the instruction is not detention and damages, but a debt
upon a specific contract, and the contract is not referred to or
stated in the bill of particulars.
But it is objected, that although this be true, the plaintiffs
in error are now too late.
1. We are bound to notice, before trial, a defect in the bill
of particulars, in stating matters not legally claimed, under
such an action as this was. But it is denied that this is the
law When the parties came to the trial, they objected to the
evidence. This was done expressly, when the claim assumed
the form of damages, as it did when the eleventh mstrucuon
was given. A party may either object to the omission of the
notice, or move to overrule the evidence, and to exclude It.
The latter was done. It was therefore objected to as far as
it was in the power of the party to do it.
Another objection to the instruction is, that it adjudges
matters of fact. Upon this the counsel of the defendants in
error differ with those who maintain this position. The court
will decide the question. But there is another objection to
the instruction. It submits what was not at all in evidence
in the case. In support of this position the counsel for the
plaintiffs in error went into a particular examination of the
evidence in the record.
These reasonings on the instruction are submitted as fatal
to it, and the evil which the plaintiffs in error sustained from
it has been serious. While the damages claimed by the
defendants, in the court below, were overruled, yet by this
instruction, the whole question as to damages was left open
to the jury, and a verdict was given in their favour, for upwards of 20,000 dollars. In the circuit court, if the claims of
the defendants in error are" just, they will have no difficulties
VOL. I.-3
v

SUPREME COURT.
[Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company v. Knapp and others.]

in another trial and, if the law requires it, they may amend
the declaration and the notice.
It is not decided that a contract may be inferred from the
acts of a corporation. It is the better opinion, in modern
times, that it can be done, but in this case there was no evidence of any acts of the corporation, but solely of some of the
officers employed by it. There was no entry on the books of
the corporation, no meeting of the directors, or vote by the
board. It was the act of the president only, on which the
plaintiffs below rested their claims, and of the engineers, on the
authority of the president. This was not sufficient. The
court must adjudge whether there was sufficient evidence to
make the corporation liable.
1 Peters 363, 12 Wheat. 74, were cited by the counsel of the
defendants in error; and theysustain the rule now contended for.
Mr Justice M'LEAN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case is brought before this court, by writ of error to the
circuit court for the District of Columbia.
The defendants here, who were plaintiffs in the circuit court,
commenced an action of assumpsit to recover a large sum
alleged to be due, for the construction of certain locks, &c.
from the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company, and filed
their declaration, containing nine general counts of indebitatus
assumpsit, for work done and materials found, money laid out
and expended, an account stated, &c., and the defendants
pleaded the general issue. On the trial, several exceptions
were taken to the ruling of the court, by the plaintiffs, and
one exception was taken by the defendants, which presents the
points for decision on the present writ of error.
The following is the instruction referred to. "In the further
trial of this cause, and after the evidence and instructions stated
in the preceding bills of exceptions had been given, and after
evidence offered by the plaintiffs, of the payment of moneys to
the labourers for the time during the detention, occasioned by
the want of cement on locks 5 and 6, the plaintiffs, by their
counsel, prayed the court to instruct the jury, that if the jury
believe, from the said evidence, that the defendants had, on
the 2d of September 1829, and from that time till the 20th
day of January 1830, contracted with the plaintiffs to furnish

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company v. Knapp and others.]

them with cement necessary, &c., in due time, &c., and that
the plaintiffs, expecting that sufficient supplies of cement to go
on with the work would be furnished by the defendants, as
defendants had so engaged to do, hired a large number of
hands, and brought them to the locks, and when the defendants had so failed to furnish the cement, kept the same hands
idle, waiting for cement, on the defendants' desire that they
should do so in order to be ready to go on with the work; and
paid them their wages while so waiting then the plaintiffs
are entitled, under the count for money laid out and expended,
contained in the declaration, to recover the money so paid to
said hands, during such periods. But that the plaintiffs are
not entitled to recover for wages paid to their workmen, on
account of a deficiency of cement, after the said 20th day of
January 1830; unless the jury shall be satisfied by the said
evidence, that the said resolution of the board of directors, of
the 20th of January 1830, was rescinded by the said board,
and a new contract entered into thereafter by the defendants,
to furnish cement to the plaintiffs, and the subsequent failure
on their part so to furnish it, and an agreement also to pay for
the wages of the plaintiffs' workmen while so waiting," &c.
The resolution referred to in the bill of exceptions, is in the
words following
"Resolution of the Board of Directors of the Canal Company in meeting January 20th 1830. Resolved, that although
this board has stipulated to supply the contractors with water
lime, yet the board will not be held responsible for any damages arising from the want of that article."
A bill of particulars was filed by the plaintiffs under the
order of the court, and in which bill, the following item is
charged. "Detention and damage sustained, for want of cement in locks No. 5 and 6-600 dollars."
This case has been ably argued on both sides, and the questions involved in it are of much practical importance.
The counsel for the plaintiffs in error object to the bill of
particulars, and insist that the above item for damage for want
of cement, &c. is not sufficiently specific, as it does not apprize the defendants of all the facts on which the charge for
damage is made. It does not state how the damage was sustained by the plaintiffs, and on what ground an indemnity

SUPREME COURT.
[Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company v. Knapp and others.1

was claimed of the defendants. A bill of particulars, it Is contended, when demanded, becomes a part of the declaration,
and with the exception of certain averments, it should contain
equal certainty.
There can be no doubt that a bill of particulars should be so
specific, as to inform the defendant, substantially, on what the
plaintiff's action is founded. This is the object of the bill, and
if it fall short of this, its tendency must be to mislead the defendant, rather than to enlighten him.
As the bill of particulars is filed before the trial, it is always
in the power of the defendant to object to its want of precision,
and the court will require it to be amended before the commencement of the trial. And if this be not the only mode of
taking advantage of any defect in the bill, in practice it is
certainly the most convement for the parties.
In 4 Taun. 188, the court of common pleas, say substantially, "if a bill of particulars specifies the transaction upon
which the plaintiff's claim arises, it need not specify the techmcal description of the right which results to the plaintiff out
of that transaction."
In that case the plaintiff declared for goods sold and delivered, and for money paid, and delivered to the defendant a
bill of particulars: viz. "To 17 firkins of butter, 55 pounds 6
shillings not saying for goods sold."
The court decided that the action could be sustained on the
count for money paid. And they remark, as to the objection
taken respecting the bill of particulars, bills of" particulars are
not to be construed with all the strictness of declarations this
bill of particulars has no reference to any counts, and it sufficiently expresses to the defendant, that the plaintiff's claim
arises on account of the butter."
And we think, in the present case, that although the bill of
particulars does not specify technically and fully the grounds
on which the plaintiffs claim damages, yet, in the language of
the above case, it sufficiently expresses to the defendants, that
the claim arises for want of cement in locks No. 5 and 6.
But the ground on which some reliance seems to be placed
for the reversal of this judgment, and which, in the view of the
court, is one of the principal points presented by the record, is,
that the jury were instructed to find for the plaintiffs below, on

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company v. Knapp and others.]

proof of a special contract, and under a declaration containing
only general counts.
By the instruction of the court, if the jury found, from the
evidence, that the contract had been made by the defendants,
as stated, and that the money had been paid to the hands detained for want of cement, the plaintiffs were entitled to a verdict on the count for money laid out and expended.
In the argument, it was contended, that there was no legal
proof of the special contract. That a corporation can only
contract within the terms of its charter, and that there does not
appear to have been any action of the board, sanctioning the
contract as insisted on by the plaintiffs.
The ancient doctrine, that a corporation can act in matters
of contract only under its seal, has been departed from by modern decisions , and it is now considered, that the agents of a
corporation may in many cases bind it, and subject it to an action of assumpsit. But it is unnecessary to examine either the
ancient or modern doctrine on this subject, for as no exception
was taken to the evidence which conduced to prove a special
contract in the court below, the objection cannot be raised in
this court.
There can be no doubt, that where the special contract remains open, the plaintiff's remedy is on the contract, and he
must set it forth specially in his declaration. But if the contract has been put an end to, the action for money had and
received, lies to recover any payment that has been made under
it. The case of Towers v. Barrett, 1 Term Rep. 133, illustrates
very clearly and fully this doctrine. In that case, the plaintiff recovered, on a count for money had and received, ten
guineas paid to the defendant for a one horse chaise and harness, which were to be returned on condition the plaintiff's
wife should not approve of the purchase, paying 3 shillings and
6 pence per diem for the hire, should they be returned and
as the plaintiff's wife did not approve of the purchase, they were
returned, and the hire was tendered at the same time. "But
if the contract remain open, the plaintiff's demand for damages
arises out of it, and then he must state the special contract, and
the breach of it."

It is a well settled principle, where a special contract has
been performed, that a plaintiff may recover on the general

SUPREME COURT.
[Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company v. Knapp and others.]

counts. This principle is laid down by this court, in the
case of the Bank of Columbia v. Patterson's administrators,
7 Cranch 299, 2 Cond. Rep. 501. In that case, the court
say "1we take it to be incontrovertibly settled, that indebitatus assumpsit will lie to recover the stipulated price due on
a special contract not under seal, where the contract has been
executed, and that it is not, in such case, necessary to declare
upon the special agreement."
It would be difficult to find a case more analogous in principle to the one under consideration, than the above. The
same questions, as to the right of the plaintiff to recover on the
general counts, where the special agreement was performed,
and also, as to the powers of a corporation to bind itself,
through the instrumentality of agents, were raised and decided
in that case, as are made in this one. And it would seem,
where this court had decided the point in controversy, and
which decision had never afterwards been controverted, that
the question is not open for argument. But whether this
doctrine be considered as established by the adjudications of
this court, or the sanction of other courts, it is equally clear
that no principle involved in the action of assumpsit, can be
maintained by a greater force of authority.
In 1 Bacon's Ab. 380, it is laid down, that "wherever the
consideration on the part of the plaintiff is executed, and the
thing to be done on the defendant's part is mere payment of
a sum of money due immediately, or where money is paid on
a contract which is rescinded, so that defendant has no right
to retain it this constitutes a debt for which the plaintiff may
declare in the general count, on an iidebitatus assumpsit.
Anciently, the count in such cases was special, stating the
consideration as executory, the promise, the plaintiff's performance, and the defendant's breach, but the indebitatus has
grown, by degrees, into use."
"So also if goods are sold and pctually delivered to the defendant, the price, if due in money, may be recovered on this
count, and this though the price is settled by third parties."
1 Bos. and Pull. 397, 12 East 1. "Where the plaintiff let to
the defendant land rent free, on condition that the plaintiff
should have a moiety of the crops, and while the crop of the
second year was on the ground, it was appraised for both

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company v. Knapp and others.]

parties and taken by defendant it was held that the plaintiff
might recover his moiety of the value in indebitatus assumpsit,
for crops, &c. sold for by the appraisement, the special
agreement was executed, and a price fixed at which the defendant bought the plaintiff's moiety"
The same principle is found in Helps and another v. Winterbottom, 2 B. and A. 431, Brooke v. White, 1 New Rep.
330, Robson v. Godfrey, Holt 236, Heron v Gronger, 5 Esp.
269, Ingram v. Shirley, 1 Stark. 185, Forsyth v. Jervis,
1 Stark. 437, Harrison v. Allen, 9 Moore 28, Bailey v. Gouldsmith, Peake 56, Gandall v. Pontigny, 1 Stark. 198, Farrar v.
Nightingale, 2 Esp. 639, Riggs v. Lindsav, 7 Cranch 500,
2 Cond. Rep. 585, James et al. v. Cotton, 7 Bing. 266,
Administrators of Foster v. Foster, 2 Binn. 4, Lykes v. Summerel, 2 Browne 227.
As, by the instruction of the court, the jury must have found
the contract executed by the plaintiffs below, before they rendered a verdict in their favour, we think the question has
been settled by the adjudged cases above cited, and that on
this point there is no error in the instruction of the court.
But it is insisted, that, in their instruction, the court lay
down certain facts, as proved, which should have been left to
the jury. If this objection shall be sustained, by giving a fair
construction to the language of the court, the judgment must
be reversed, for the facts should be left with the jury, whose
peculiar province it is to weigh the evidence, and say what
effect it shall have.
The instruction states, "that if the jury believe from the
said evidence, that the defendants had on, &c. contracted
with the plaintiffs, expecting that sufficient supplies of cement
to go on with the work would be furnished by the defendants,
as defendants had so engaged to do, hired a large number of
hands and brought them to the locks, and, when the defendants
had so failed to furish the cement, kept the said hands," &c.
The wvords italicised are those objected to, as assuming the
facts stated to be proved, and consequently superseding an
inquiry into those facts by the jury
It must be observed, that in the first part of the instruction,
the jury were told, "that if they believe from the said evidence,
that the defendants had contracted with the plaintiffs to furnish

SUPREME COURT
[Chesapeake and Ohio Canal dompany v. Knapp and others.]

them with cement necessary, &c. in due time, &c. and the
plaintiffs expecting that the cement would be furnished, as defendants had so engaged to do, 4.c. making the words italicmsed to
depend upon proof of the contract, viz. the furnishing of the
cement in due time, as stated in the bill of exceptions; it would,
therefore seem to be clear, that these words could not have
withdrawn from the jury any fact, as they were made to depend
on the establishment of the contract by the finding of the jury.
And the same remark applies to the other words objected to,
that is, wben "the defendants had sofailed tofurish the cement;"
for these words zould have had no influence with the jury,
unless the evidence, by their finding, not only established the
contract to deliver the cement, but also showed a failure by the
defendants to deliver it.
It therefore appears, that the words objected to in the instruction, when viewed in connection with its scope and the
language used, did not assume facts by which the jury-could
have been misled, but stated them as resulting from the finding of the jury, that the contract had been made and broken
by the defendants, as hypothetically stated in the instruction.
It is objected, that there was no evidence in the case, conducing to prove the facts on which the above instruction was
founded.
The court ought not to instruct, and indeed cannot instruct
on the sufficiency of evidence, but no instruction should be
given, except upon evidence in the case. Where there is evidence on the point, the court may be called on to instruct the
jury as to the law, but it is for them to determine on the effect
of the evidence.
In the present case there was evidence, which was not objected to, conducing to prove the contract, hypothetically stated
in the instruction, and in such case, whatever ground, there
might have been for a new trial, there is none for the reversal
of'the judgment.
The instruction was limited to the damages sustained by the
plaintiffs, for a failure to deliver cement by the defendants, for
the construction of locks numbered five and six, and as the bill
of particulars charges the damages thus sustained at 600 dollars only, and the damages assessed by the jury amount to the
sum of 20,707 dollars and 56 cents, it is contended by the

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company v. Knapp and others.]

counsel for the plaintiffs in error, that on these facts the judgment should be reversed.
In the course of the trial twelve bills of exceptions were
taken by the plaintiffs to the rulings of the court on the various
points raised , but these exceptions are not now before the
court for decision. It is insisted, however, that although the
questions of law raised by these exceptions are not before the
court, yet the facts, in regard to the evidence which is shown
by the exceptions, are before them, and should be considered in
reference to the point now under examination.
In the eleventh bill of exceptions, after certain prayers by
the plaintiffs' counsel, which were refused by the court, the
defendants, by their counsel, "prayed the court to instruct the
jury, that the plaintiffs are not entitled to recover damages
under either of the counts in the declaration in this cause, by
reason of any failure on the part of the defendants to deliver
cement to the plaintiffs for the prosecution of their work on
the locks contracted to be built by themr, which the court gave
as prayed."
And in the twelfth exception they gave a similar instruction,
on the prayer of the defendants.
From these exceptions, and others taken by the plaintiffs
below, and the bill of particulars, it is contended, that it sufficiently appears there was no evidence before the jury under
the instructions of the court, except that which conduced to
show the amount of damages sustained by the plaintiffs, for
the want of cement in the construction of locks five and six.
If it were proper to look into the exceptions of the plaintiffs
below to ascertain this fact, there would still be no difficulty
in overruling the objection, for the instruction given on the
prayer of the plaintiffs below, and excepted to by the defendants, and which is the error complained of, may be reconciled
with the other exceptions, on the ground that additional evidence was heard by the jury before the instruction was given.
But if this were not the case, it would afford no ground for
the reversal of the judgment of the circuit court.
Whether the court erred or not in refusing to give the
various instructions prayed for by the plaintiffs below, is not
now a subject of inquiry. It may be admitted that they
did err, so that if the verdict had not been satisfactory to the
VOL. ix.-3 w

*

SUPREME COURT

[Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company v. Knapp and others.]

plaintiffs, they might have reversed the judgment on a writ of
error, yet the evidence on which those instructions were refused, remained in the cause for the action of the jury And
as additional evidence was given, as appears by the exception
of the defendants below, the cause was submitted to the jury
upon the whole evidence.
Whether the jury assessed the damages on account of the
injury sustained by the plaintiffs, for the want of cement in
the construction of locks, other than those numbered five and
six, or on account of other items stated in the bill of particulars, it is impossible for this court to determine. If the jury
failed to observe the instructions of the court, or found excessive damages, the only remedy for the defendants was by a
motion for a new trial. As the case now stands, we are limited
to the legal questions which arise from the instruction given
on the prayer of the plaintiffs, which was excepted to by the
defendants, and on which this writ of error has been brought.
And as it appears from the views already presented, that the
circuit court in giving this instruction did not err, the judgment
below must be affirmed with costs.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the circuit court of the United States for the District of Columbia holden in and for the county of Washington, and was argued by counsel, on consideration whereof, it
is ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of
the said circuit court in this cause be, and the same is hereby
affirmed, with costs and damages at the rate of six per centum
per annum.

