JANUARY TERM 1835.

573

THE LIFE AND FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY Or NEW YORK
V CHRISTOPHER ADAMS.
Louisiana. Mandamus. In the district court of the United States, for the district of Louisiana, the district judge refused to extend a judgment previously
entered in the district court, so as to cover other instalments due to the
plaintiffs, which became due after it was entered, and to enter a judgment
in favour of the plaintiffs, mortgagees, upon a proceeding which had been
entered into, with the mortgagor, in relation to the debt due to the mortgagoes, in which it was stipulated that judgment should be entered for certain
instalments to be paid to the plaintifis, on the non payment of the same
the districtjudge not considering the plaintiffs entitled to have the judgment
entered according to the terms of the proceeding, without notice to the
debtor and his syndics, into whose hands his property had passed under the
insolvent law of Louisiana, after the execution of the transaction, and after
ajudgment for part of the debt had been entered, which was the judgment
asked to be extended. The district judge was also required to receive a
confession ofjudgment against the mortgagor and the insolvent, by an agent
of the plaintiffs, and whose powers to confess the judgment, the districtj udge
did not consider adequate and legal for the purpose. An execution had
been issued for a part of the debt, upon the previous judgment in the district
court, and the execution was put into the hands of the marshal of the United
Ptates ; who, finding the property of the insolvent defendant, the property
mortgaged to the plaintiffs, in the hands of the syndics of the creditors of the
mortgagor, according to the insolvent laws of Louisiana, refused to proceed
and sell the same, and returned the execution unexecuted. An application
was made to the supreme court for a mandamus, to command the district
judge to enter the judgment required of him, and to receive the confession
of the judgment by the agent of the plaintiffs, and award execution thereon,
and also to compel him to oblige the marshal to execute the execution in his
hands, on the property of the defendant wherever found. The court refused to award a mandamus on any of the grounds, or for any of the purposes stated in the application.
To extend a judgment to subjects not comprehended in it, is to make a new
judgment. This court is requested to issue a mandamus to the court for
the eastern district of Louisiana, to enter a judgment in a cause supposed
to be depending in that court; not according to the opinion which it may
have formed on the matter in controversy, but according to the opinions
which may be formed in this court, on the suggestions of one of the parties.
This court is asked to decide that the merits of the cause are with the
plaintiff; and to command the district judge to render judgment in his favour.
It is an attempt to introduce the supervisory power of this court into a
cause while depending in an inferior court, and prematurely to decide it.
In addition to the obvious unfitness of such a procedure, its direct repugnance to the spirit and letter of our whole judicial system cannot escape
notice.

574

SUPREME COURT.

[Life and Fire Insurance Company of New York v. Adams.]
The supreme court, in the exercise of its ordinary appellate jurisdiction,
can take cognizance of no case until a final judgment or decree shall have
been made in the inferior court. Though the merits of the cause may have
been substantially decided, while any thing, though merely formal, remains to De done, this court cannot pass upon the subject. If, from any intermediate stage in the proceedings, an appeal might be taken to the supreme
court, the appeal might be repeated to the great oppression of parties. So
if this court might interpose by way of mandamus, in the progress of a
cause, and order a judgment or decree ; a writ of error might be brought to
the judgment, or an appeal prayed from the decree, and a judgment or
decree, entered in pursuance of the mandamus, might be afterwards reversed. Such a proceeding would subvert our whole system of jurisprudence.
The mandamus ordered by this court, 8 Peters 306, directed the performance
of a mere ministerial act.
It is the duty of a marshal of a court of the United States, to execute all process which may be placed in his hands; but he performs this duty at his
peril, and under the guidance of law. He must, of course, exercise some
judgment in the performance. Should he fail to obey the exigit of the writ
without a legal excuse, or should he in its letter violate the rights of others;
he is liable to the action of the injured party.
In the particular case in which the creditor asks for a mandamus to the die.
trict judge, to compel the marshal to seize and sell the property mentioned
in the writ, that property is no longer in the possession of the debtor against
whom the process is directed; but has been transferred, by law, to other
persons, who are directed by the same law in what manner they are to dispose of it. To construe the law, or to declare the extent of its obligation,
the questions must be brought before this court in proper form, and in a
case in which it can take jurisdiction. This case, so far as it i before any
judicial tribunal, is depending in the district court of the United States, and
perhaps in a state court in Louisiana. The supreme court of the United
States has no original jurisdiction over it; and cannot exercise appellate
jurisdiction previous to a final judgment or decree, further than to order
acts, purely ministerial, which the duty of the district court requires it to
perform. This court cannot, in such a condition of a case, construe judicially the laws which govern it, or decide in whom the property is vested.
In so doing, it would intrude itself into the management of a case requiring all the discretion of the district judge, and usurp his powers.
Though the supreme court will not order an inferior tribunal to render judg.
ment for or against either party, it will, in a proper case, order such court
to proceed to judgment. Should it be possible, that in a case npe for judgment, the court before whom it was depending could perseveringly refuse
to terminate the cause; this court, without indicating the character of the
judgment, would be required by its duty to order the rendition of some
judgment: but to justify this mandate, a plain case of refusing to proceed
in the inferior court, ought'to be made out.

ON motion for a mandamus to the district court of the United
States, for the eastern district of Louisiana.
The case is fully stated in the opinion of the court.

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Life and Fire Insurance Company of New York v. Adams.]

The case was argued by Mr Butler, attorney-general, and
Mr Jones, for the petitioners, and by Mr Clay and Mr Porter,
against the mandamus.
Mr Butler stated, that the case was before the court upon
the following order.
That the honourable Samuel H. Harper, judge of the district court of the United States, for the eastern district of Louisiana (who now here appears by his counsel, Henry Clay and
Alexander H. Porter, Esquires, and consents to this rule),
show cause, on Saturday next, why this court shall not award
a writ of mandamus, requiring and commanding him,
1. To issue, or permit to be issued, such an execution as
was, in fact, issued at the instance of the plaintiffs, on or about
the 12th of March 1834, on the judgment of the Petitioners v.
Christopher Adams, in the petition mentioned, being an execution for the amount now due on all the notes secured in the
mortgage and transaction executed by said Adams or,
2. If the said judge shall show sufficient cause, in the opinion of this court, against the issuing of such execution in the
present condition of the said judgment, then commanding him
to amend such judgment, or to permit the same to be amended,
by extending the terms thereof, so as to make the same an
absolute judgment upon all the notes and sums of money
enumerated in the original transaction, and thereupon to issue,
or permit to be issued, such execution as above mentioned, or,
3. If, in the opinion of this court, sufficient cause shall be
shown by said judge, against the consummation of said judgment, in the mode and fon last above stated, commanding
him then to consummate the interlocutory part of the same,
by entering and signing final judgment or judgments, upon
and for all the notes and sums of money mentioned in the
transaction aforesaid, as not being then due, and thereupon
to issue, or permit to be issued, such execution, for the whole
amount of all the notes as above mentioned, and,
4. In respect to such execution, if any, for the whole
amount of the said notes, as may be so ordered to be issued
by this court, commanding the said judge to compel, by due
process of law, the marshal of the eastern district of Louisiana,
duly to execute the same, notwithstanding the cession of the

SUPREME COURT,
[Life and Fire Insurance Company of New York v. Adams.]

estate of said Adams, and the appointment of a provisional
syndic thereof.
But if, in the opinion of this court, sufficient cause shall be
shown by the said judge, against any writ of mandamus, requiring him to do, or permit to be done, the matters and
things hereinabove suggested, in regard to an execution for
the whole amount of all the said notes, it is then ordered that
the said judge show cause why a writ of mandamus should
not issue, as aforesaid, requiring him to compel, by due process
of law, the marshal of the eastern district of Louisiana, duly to
execute the writ of execution heretofore issued on the said
judgment, for the amount of the notes of said Adams, due on
the 16th of May 1826 (the date of said transaction), which said
execution was dated the 30th of April 1834, and returnable
the third Monday of May thereafter, notwithstanding the cession and other matters mentioned in the return of the said
marshal to said execution.
Mr Butler said, the general objects of the application for the
mandamus were
1. To obtain execution or executions for the whole amount
of all the notes given by Christopher Adams to the Life and
Fire Insurance Company, or, at all events, for the notes not
due when the first judgment was entered.
2. To procure the execution of the process issued by the
district court of the United States, upon the property mortgaged,
notwithstanding the cession of the property of Adams under
the insolvent laws of Louisiana, and the possession of that
property by the syndics, acting by the authority of those laws.
These objects can only be obtained by a mandamus from this
court. As to so much of the application as asks for a mandamus to compel the judge to perfect the judgment and award
execution, there can be no doubt of the jurisdiction of this
court to award it. It is within the principles established by
the court at the last term in the Life Insurance Company v
The Heirs of Nicholas Wilson, 8 Peters 291. Upon this part
of the case no doubt is therefore entertained of the success of
the application.
The rule which has been obtained in this case embraces

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Life and Fire Insurance Company of New York v. Adams.]

several points, and this cause is sustained by the case Ex parte
Bradstreet, 6 Peters 774.
The first point is founded on the supposition that in the present state of the record, in the court below, the petitioners are
entitled to an execution for the whole amount of the debt due
by Adams. The original mortgage imported a confession of
judgment, because it was made according to the laws of LouIsiana, before a notary. Civil Code of 1825, 2231, 2232, 2233.
It therefore authorised the creditors to sue out an execution
"9 ma executiva, without resorting to an action on the mortgage,
in ma ordinarna." Code of Practice 733, 734, Digest of the
Civil Code of 1808, 460, art. 40, Digest of 1825, 3361, 7
a
Mlartin's Rep. 238, 12 Martin's Rep. 671.
On these authorities the petitioners were, without notice to
the mortgagor, entitled to execution on the mortgage, by simply making oath that the debt is due, in whose ever hands the
property mortgaged may be. Code of Practice 61 to 64.
If therefore an application had been made by the insurance company to the district judge for an execution, or writ of
seizure and sale, it must have been given, and if he had not
granted it, this court would have compelled him by a mandamus. In 1826 such an application was made to Judge Robertson, and was granted by him.
But the petitioners have other securintes which render their
right to this judgment, and the proceedings upon it, still more
certain. The "transaction" of 1826 was a confession of
judgment for the whole amount of the debt. The effect of
this "transaction" on it, and the seizure, was to allow and authorize the party, as the instalments became due, to take out
execution for the amount thereof. All such agreements have
the force of law, have the force of things adjudged, and cannot be revoked or altered by the party who enters into them with
his creditors. Civil Code 3038, 3045, 2270. The decree of the
district judge entered on the 7th of March 1834, under the
mandamus issued at the last term of this court, is in conformity
to the rights of the petitioners thus understood, and covers the
whole of their claim. It became the duty of the clerk, after
that decree, to enter the judgments for the instalments not due
in 1826, and this was a mere matter of form. It was a judicial mortgage, and stood like a judgment on a bond, in a court
VOL. IX.-3 X

SUPREME COURT.
[Life and Fire Insurance Company of New York v, Adams.]

of common law, for a debt payable by instalments, or like a
decree n equity on a mortgage payable in like manner.
This "1transaction" did not extinguish the mortgage. Civil
Code of 1825, art. 3374.
The second alternative presented by the petitioners asks this
court, if cause should have been shown against issuing the
executions for the whole amount of the debt, that this court
command the amendment of the judgment, or permit its
amendment, so as to include mit all the notes, and issue, or
permit execution to issue for the whole amount of the judgment so amended.
The objection to the entry of the judgment, under the power
given by Adams, is, that having become insolvent, he has no
capacity to confess a judgment. " No standing in judgment,"
according to the law of Louisiana.
To this it is answered, that the rule as to standing in judgment, in cases of insolvency, applies only to the plaintiffs. But
in this case the act of confessing judgment is not under a
power given since the insolvency of Adams. It was proposed
to be entered under a power granted in 1826, and is the legitimate exercise of the power, which Adams could not revoke,
and on which the laws of Louisiana could not operate retrospectively
If such could be the operation of these laws, they
would rescind and annul a solemn contract, and this they are
forbidden to do by the constitution of the United States. This
would be a retro-active effect upon the vested rights of the
creditors of Adams, and impair a security, perfected according
to the laws of Louisiana, existing, and in force when the contract was made.
The cession of the property of an insolvent is his own act,
in this case it is a voluntary act of Adams, and this is claimed
as vacating his prior contract. When a transaction, such as
that in this case, prohibits an appeal from the judgment upon
it, or any action in a court to diminish its effects , shall it be
in the power of a party who has entered into it, by an application for the benefit of the insolvent law, to defeat it Qt
It is also urged, that the civil code of Louisiana contains no
prohibition of an insolvent defendant to ,confess a judgment.
The allegation that such a defendant has no standing in judgment, is derived from the decision of the court of Louisiana.

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Life and Fire Insurance Company ofiNew York v. Adams.]

It is a deduction of a state court from the law, and has no
binding effect on a court of the United States.
The power to Mr Eckford to confess the judgment was regularly transferred to Mr Barker, and as the attorney of Adams,
under the substitution held by him, no notice was required to
be given to Adams. This was the objection of the district
judge to the exercise of the power, and to the confession, but
by the law of Louisiana notice is not necessary If Adams
had deemed notice necessary, he should have stipulated for it
in the transaction.
The authority of Mr Barker to confess the judgment, was
derived under the assignment of the Life and Fire Insurance
Company to the Mercantile Insurance Company. The former
company had sold all this debt, and had transferred all the
powers they possessed to collect it and Mr Barker acted under
the assignment by the Life and Fire Insurance Company to
him. Mr Eckford is dead, but it was not a personal trust in
him, it was held for the benefit of the Insurance Company of
which he was the presiding officer. The power to confess the
judgment was a part of the security, and passed with the
transfer. A note to the president of a company for a debt due
to the company, may be put in suit by the company, without
the aid of the president.
It is admitted that, on general principles, a mandamus ought
not to issue to a judge to act in a particular manner, in a case
within his discretion. But this court, at the last term, decided
that the signing of t, judgment was a ministerial act, and such
only is the proceeding now required. Judge Robertson, in the
former case, had applied his judicial mind upon the notes due
in 1826, no more than Judge Harper has done in this. He
had done nothing but a mere formal act. He was bound by
the law of Louisiana to enter the judgment, and lie did enter
it. So in this case there is an obligation on Judge Harper to
act ministerially, and enter the judgment.
Ought not the marshal of the United States for the eastern
district of Louisiana, to be compelled, by a mandamus directed
to the judge of the district court, to execute the process of
execution, which was issued upon the judgment entered in
that court 7Z
It is the desire of all the parties in this case, to have the

SUPREME COURT.
[Life and Fire Insurance Company of New York v. Adams.]

question upon the duties of the marshal decided in this court.
All know that if the question is not now regularly before the
court, it must ultimately come up for decision, and it would
be highly beneficial and satisfactory to have it now disposed of.
It is admitted that consent does not give jurisdiction, but
this is given by the judiciary act of 1789, see. 13.
Congress intended, by "usages of law," the terms in the
statute, such as had prevailed in England, and in the states of
the union, which had made these usages the rules of the local
tribunals. Such has been the understanding of this court,
and the general jurisdiction exercised by the court of king's
bench is referred to, for the purpose of ascertaining what "the
usages of law" are. So, where the highest tribunals of the
states have exercised them, the existence and nature of the
usages are pioved. The general rules on this subject, are to
be found in Ex parte Bradstreet, 7 Peters 635.
The court decided in that case, that wherever the legal
rights of a party had been violated, and in a case where the
discretion of the judge was not involved, this would be corrected by a mandamus, if it was not the subject of a writ of
error. 7 Peters 635, 3 Dallas 42, 6 Peters 216, 223.
This is also the rule in the state courts. Although there
may be another remedy, the court will proceed, if there will
not lie a writ of error. The courts of New York possess and
exercise the same jurisdiction as the court of king's bench in
England. 5 Wendall 114.
It was the duty of the marshal to execute the process.
Judicial act, see. 27, 1 Story's Laws U. S. 62. The action
against the marshal, by suit, may be an inadequate remedy,
andunder any circumstances it is one of great delay and expense. The provisions of the statute of the United States
referred to, give the courts full power to enforce the execution
of process. If the marshal shows no sufficient cause for disobedience, he is in contempt, and the injured party has a legal
right to compulsory process as wnere he does not return a
writ or bring in the body
In the present case, the marshal received process commanding him to levy on certain property, described in a petition
annexed. He was desired to seize on a particular and specified tract or piece of land, and to sell it. It was not a general

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Life and Fire Insurance Company of New York v. Adams.]

execution against all the property of the defendant, but an
execution m rent. It was his duty to proceed under the mandate of the court. If he violates this duty, if he refuses to
obey the command of the writ, he may be liable to an action,
but this does not exempt him from the power of the court. The
marshal of the district court returned a reason for not executing the process, which the court below pronounced sufficient,
but if this court shall consider it insufficient, the injured party
has a right to a mandamus.
As to the sufficiency of the return, it is to be observed, that
it contains no evidence of the insolvency of the defendant, but
the word of a person who was no more than a provisional
syndic. The cession of the property was made on the 9th of
March, and the execution issued in April. The cession did
not expressly divest the estate of the insolvent, and if this
was the effect of the proceeding, it was such by implication
only. But what did the cession pass I Nothing more than
the interest of Adams, and this could not affect prior liens.
These liens were not to be affected or impaired by the cession.
To delay the fruits of the execution, by preventing its operation, would impair it. And the lien of the petitioners was a
special mortgage, which cannot, by the laws of Louisiana,
be disregarded. Civil Code, art. 3258, 4, 5, 3249, 73, 74, 77,
78, 3297, 3360.
The law of Louisiana, of 1817, did not attempt to operate
on securities of this kind. The law of 1826 was passed two
years subsequent to the mortgage, and could not affect it. In
fact, a suit on the mortgage by the petitioners was then depending, the premises were then in the actual custody of the
marshal, and his proceeding against them had been enjoined,
but the injunction did not operate as a discharge.
By the application of the mortgagees, in March 1826, the
circuit court obtained jurisdiction in rem, which has never been
lost, and cannot be ousted. 2 Martin's Rep. 262, new series,
2 Wheat. 290, 1 Gallison 168, 4 Johns. Ch. Rep. 209.
The judgment rendered by Judge Robertson will be considered as signed, if it ought to have been signed.
When a plaintiff, in an execution, has a clear right to proceed against a specific thing, he may insist on the sale of it,
under an execution, without giving an indemnity. It is not

SUPREME COURT.
[Life and Fire Insurance Company of New York v. Adams.]

the demand of indemnity which gives a right to it, but there
must be a substantial cause for apprehension in the marshal,
to authorise his insisting on it. It is no cause for indemnity,
when an officer is asked to sell a tract of land specifically subjected to the process, all that can be sold is the right of the
party defendant, in the process, and if this right is not valid,
the sale injures no one.
If there is a law of Louisiana which disqualifies a party
who has become insolvent from appearing in court, it can
have no operation in a court of the United States. Nor can
the provisions of the insolvent law of Louisiana, which transfer all proceedings against insolvents in other courts into the
parish court, or the district court of the state, operate on proceedings in the courts of the United States. If this could be
done, the provisions of the constitution of the United States
would be subverted.
Mr Clay, contra. The attempt of the petitioners, in this
case, is to exonerate themselves and their agent from the
general laws of the land, and to obtain for themselves peculiar privileges and advantages, to the injury of others. While
the laws of Louisiana are applauded for their justice, their
administration is assailed.
It should also be observed, that the counsel for the petitioners has mistaken the tribunal before which the proceedings
in cases of insolvents' estates are entertained to any effective
action. They commence before the parish judge, who is a
notary , before him the preliminary proceedings are instituted
but they are transferred to the district court of the place, a
tribunal of high rank, and the judge of which has the highest
talents and character.
An inspection of the proceedings in the case of Wilson's
Heirs and of Adams, will result in a conviction that they are
all regular. Nothing is to be seen in them of any other character, but the attempt of the agent of the petitioners to become
the syndic of the insolvent, and after being disappointed in
this, he returns to the court of the United States, and endeayours to counteract and overleap all those proceedings.
A great and important general principle is to be examined
in this case. What are the powers of the courts of the United

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Life and Fire Insurance Company of New York v. Adams.]

States in cases between citizens of different states. Certainly,
in these cases, the law is the same for all parties. The law
which is applied in the state courts, in cases between their
own citizens, will be applied by the courts of the union in
suits brought into those courts. The local and state laws
will be enforced in both, the same rules of justice will be
maintained for the establishment of courts of the United
States was not to authorize the administration of different
laws, but was because it was considered, that in the national
tribunals, greater confidence in their impartiality would prevail
among suitors proceeding against citizens of a state to which
they did not belong.
If the purposes of establishing national courts had been
other than these, it would not have been endured by any state
in the union. To apply a different, or a higher rate ofjustice
in the case of a non resident, would not be permitted. If the
law regulating the proceedings of syndics in insolvent cases
has established rights binding on the citizens of Louisiana,
that law must be applied to citizens of other states, unless it
shall interfere with some provision in the constitution of the
United States.
The insolvent law of Louisiana is in effect a bankrupt law.
Although, under the acts of 1817 and 1823, the person of the
debtor is not exempt from the power of the creditor, yet, by
applying to the civil court, and having the signatures of twothirds of his creditors in favour of the purpose, he may, by an
order of the court, be exempt in his person from his past debts.
It is then a bankrupt system, binding on the citizens of Louisiana, and on those of the other states.
Various privileges are secured in favour of creditors by the
laws of Louisiana, and preferences are given which cannot be
disturbed. The highest security on real estate, is for the unpaid purchase money, that of a vendor, on an estate sold by
him. 10 Martin 448.
There are two modes of proceeding under the insolvent laws
of Louisiana, one voluntary, the other compulsory But when
the cession under a voluntary subjection to the law is accepted
by the judge, the cases, and proceedings in them, are afterwards
the same. Adams made a voluntary application, but the
judge accepted the cession, and all the provisions of the laws

SUPREME COURT.
[Life and Fire Iusuranco Company of New York v. Adams.]

were brought into full operation. It could not afterwards be
withdrawn.
This case, referred to 10 Martin 448, shows, that a mortgage
creditor musi come in and receive payment from the syndics,
notwithstanding his mortgage. All the estate of the insolvent
is divested, inpliedly by the act of 1817, expressly by the act
of 1823. That case shows that a creditor having a lien cannot take the .property and sell it, but must leave it to the
administration of the syndics, and take payment of his lien
through them.
Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL asked, if there is any law which
secures the rights of mortgage creditors I
Mr Clay. The syndics act to prevent a scramble among the
creditors for the effects of the debtor, and to take the property
of the insolvent out of their hands. They take the property,
make a tableau of distribution, regarding the lien creditors according to their respective situations, giving each his particular
rights in the distribution, and an equal distribution is made of
the residue, only, among creditors of equal condition. No
matter what the lien or preference may be, it is upheld and
respected in this distribution. Cited, the thirty-fifth section of
the act of 1817.
By the law, if the mortgage creditors insist on a sale, it must
be made. There is then no difference as to the rights of those
creditors, under the general or the insolvent-laws. There is
however a difference in the result as, if the property is sold by
the syndics, there will often remain a balance in favour of the
general creditors, if disposed of by the syndics, it is not permitted to be sold for less than its appraised value, but if sold
by the marshal, no such restriction prevails. 1 Martin's Rep.
N. S. 495.
The only change, then, made in the relation of debtor and
creditor, is in the remedy, or rather in the mode of using it.
The security of the lien creditor is not impaired. It is not
denied that state legislatures have powers to vary the remedy,
but not to affect rights.
In the case before the court, the act of 1817 was in force
before this mortgage was given. The law in force, at the

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Life and Fire Insurance Company of New York v. Adams.]

time of a contract, is incorporated in it, and the mortgage was
taken with the knowledge that in the event of the insolvency
of Adams, the property pledged would be administered according to the insolvent law of Louisiana, and notwithstanding
the lien, the rights of his other creditors would be regarded.
What was the decision of this court at the last term q The decision was no more, than that the judgment should be signed,
merely that a ministerial act should be performed. The court
had no right to look at the consequences of that act, nor
did it.
The question is then presented, what is this judgment which
was signed by Judge Harper. Was it, or was it not, a judgment for the subsequent instalments2q A slight reference to
the terms of the judgment as it stood before Judge Robertson,
and as, under the mandate of this court it was perfected before
the present district judge, will satisfjr this court that it was
absolute for the notes due in 1826, and prospective, as to. the
notes to become due, and as they became due, a judgment for
the amount was to be entered, not was entered. It was not in
the power of the judge to go beyond what was due.
It is contended for the petitioners, that the transaction is the
law between the parties, admit this, but yet it was not a judgment, it only gave a right to a judgment. It is the highest
evidence of their rights; but parties cannot erect courts. The
provision is, that judgment shall be given as the notes become
due. If the transaction is the law of the parties, look at it.
It declares that Adams shall go into court from time to time,
and confess judgment, and in his default his successors or
attorney shall do it. This shows that judgment was not to
be given without the action of the party.
From a part of the contract it appears, that judgment was
to be entered as the instalments became.due. The party cannot be allowed to postpone indefinitely, the entry of the judgments. Judge Robertson directs that whenever the sums
become due, the judgment on each sum shall be entered but
the party has not done this; he waited five years, and then he
came into court and asked for a judgment for the whole sum.
This case is not like a bond with a penalty, the debt payable by instalments. In such a case, the judgment is given
for the whole penalty, according to the terms of the bond.
VOL. IX.-3 Y

SUPREME COURT.
[Life and Fire Insurance Company of New York v. Adams.]

Before the statute of William the third, the party to a bond was
bound for the penalty, and could only obtain, in equity, relief
on the payment of the sum actually due.
Could an action of debt be maintained to recover the sum,
prospectively to become due, by the judgment of Judge Robertson. It could not, for it was only a promise that judgment
should be given, and no suit could be instituted for more than
the actual amount of the judgment in 1826.
The law of Louisiana is, that the party asking a judgment
on a warrant of attorney, must make an affidavit of the debt,
and that it is unpaid. This regulation was not complied with
in the case before the court, the affidavit does not state that
the debt is due and unpaid. Law of Louisiana respecting
affidavits, Old Civil Code, 460, art. 1, 10 Martin's Rep. 222,
decides this.
It has been suggested, that the district judge should have
amended the judgment, so as to include the additional sums.
There was nothing to amend by The party might entitle
himself to the judgment for those sums, by complying with the
forms required by the law, and the practice of the court. No
case was made out before the district judge, and the timewhich
had elapsed since the first application for judgment, from 1826
to 1834, was properly to be inquired into and explained. The
application was to give the judgment a retro-active effect, and
this was not warranted bythe transaction, or by the law. If the
rights of the parties are to be maintained only by the transaction, the modes of proceedings which it prescribes excludes
others.
Supposing the judgment could not be amended or extended,
did the representative of the petitioners, Mr Barker, present
himself before the district court, with powers authorising him
to act. The power to confess judgment could not be conferred
by any warrant on the corporation. A corporation exists by
its law of creation, and there is no authority in such a body to
appoint an attorney in fact. In this case Adams gave a power
to Mr Eckford, not to the corporation, but the power under
which Mr Barker claimed to act was not derived under Mr
Eckford. It is a general power to collect debts, not given by
the successors of Mr Eckford, but derived from the Mercantile

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Life and Fire Insurance Company of New York v. Adams.]

Insurance Company, who were the transferees of the debts
due by Adams to the Life and Fire Insurance Company.
It is also to be considered that all the parties, the syndics as
well as Adams, should have had notice. Adams had no existence as to this proceeding, his insolvency prevented his interference, the effect of the judgment on the rights of his
creditors, represented by the syndics, was to be considered,
and notice of the motion for judgment should have been given
to them. This the district judge thought necessary, and he
thought correctly.
It has been decided in Louisiana, 12 Martin's Rep. 695,
that entering ajudgment on a power to confess one, is ajudicial
action. The whole matter upon which the judgment was to
be entered, was to be examined. The power of attorney,
the existence of the debt, the terms of the affidavit, all these
were to be looked to. The judge would be unworthy of his
situation, if, without citing the parties interested, or giving
them an opportunity to appear, he had proceeded, as he was
asked to do by the agent of the assignees of the petitioners.
It is not necessary to decide whether this case can be taken
out of the federal court, and placed in the district court of
Louisiana, for the action of that court on the claims of the petitioners. The constitutional provision is sufficiently satisfied,
when suit may be brought against the syndics. By the insolvent law the syndics might -be sued, and this right to sue
them was well known. Suits against syndics have been
brought in the circuit court of the United States. The case
of Field and others v. The United States, before this court at
last term, was a suit against syndics. Field and others v. The
United States, ante 182.
It is admitted that there is a difficulty when a suit has been
commenced in a federal court, in transferring it, in consequence
of the insolvency of the defendant, into a state court. This
may be productive of differences between the state courts and
those of the union, but it is one of those difficulties which result from our peculiar system of state and federal governments;
and it will be arrested and prevented doing evil, as many others
have been, by the presiding spirit which has so often rescued
the government of the United States from embarrassment.
It has been stated to be strange, that after his insolvency,

SUPREME COURT
rLife and Fire Insurance Company of New York v. Adams.]

Adams could not confess a judgment. This is the law, and it
is the same in England in bankruptcy The law of Louisiana
-takes away this faculty, and all the rights of the insolvent are
transferred to the syndics.
The petitioners were not entitled to a new judgment, or to an
extension of that already entered, for they had not brought themselves within the rules of the court or the law on the subject.
Will this court substitute themselves for the inferior court, and
say this is a case for a mandamus'q A mandamus, properly
issued, operates mechanically on a judge. It operates physically, not on the mind of the officer. In the case of the Urnted States v. Patterson, this court refused to usurp the power
of the judge to decide.
Will the court transfer themselves to Louisiana, and say that
they will compel'the entry of the judgment 'I If this cannot be
done, there remains the question, whether this court will undertake, in this state of things, on a petition for a mandamus,
to set aside the laws of Louisiana, and say that a party who
has placed himself under the insolvent laws of that state, shall
be subjected to the process of the court of the United Statesl
If the district judge is to compel the marshal to execute the
process, by selling the estate, this will be the case.
The powers of a judge are judicial and ministerial. So are
those of a marshal. These are judicial when he summons a
jury to decide whether property is liable to be seized under an
execution. What is the action required from the judge, when
he is asked to attach the marshal2 He is asked to decide one
of the most difficult questions of conflicting laws, that can be
presented-whether the law of Louisiana shall give place to
the law of the United States'I This is a judicial question of
the highest order, and this court is called upon to take it from
the judge, and oblige him to compel the execution of the process by the marshal.
Mr Porter, against the motion.
The power given by Adams to confess the judgment was to
be exercised in his default, but it does not appear that he was
called upon to enter it. The execution of the power, without
a previous demand on Adams, or notice to him, was unauthorized and void.

JANUARY TERM 1835.
(Life and Fire Insurance Company of New York v. Adams.]

The second objection to the execution of the power is, that
it was given to Eckford, who is dead, and the agent of the
plaintiffs derives no power from him-Adams the principal has
lost his standing in judgment, by his insolvency, and no one
could act as his agent. An agent, Mr Barker, who claims to
be the agent of Adams, can exercise no powers which his principal could not exercise. By the decisions of the courts of Louisiana a party cannot send a confession of a judgment into
court and have it entered. It must be submitted to the judge
for his consideration, and he, after an examination, must sign
it. Without his signature it is not a judgment. He acts
by his judicial functions, and is not a mere ministerial agent.
The questions involved in this case are of great importance, and their decision by this court is looked for with
great anxiety.
When the execution against the property of Adams was put
into the hands of the marshal, the property was in the hands of
the syndics, by the cession made under the insolvent law After discussion and examination in the district court, it was held
that the plaintiffs were to go into the state court for payment
of their debt under the proceedings of that court. This was
not a transfer of the case from the court of the'United States
to the state court, but it was only deciding, that as the property was in the state court, there the plaintiffs should obtain
payment of their lien, which was not impaired by any proceedings in the state court.

If this court shall say that the marshal shall take the property which has passed from an insolvent into the hands of
syndics for distribution, it will subject the marshal to great
difficulties. Cited, 2 Miller's Louisiana Reports 337.
The statute of Louisiana of 1817 regulates the cession of
goods and property of an insolvent debtor, and the act of 1826
(Laws of Louisiana 136) enacted that the cession should be
made immediately on the application of the insolvent for the
benefit of the laws.
Shall not Louisiana be permitted to say that property within her own limits, shall by her laws pass to creditors by cession, and that the judgments of the courts of the United
States shall not interfere I
If, by the laws referred to, the property of insolvents cannot be

SUPREME COURT.
[Life and Fire Insurance Company of New York v. Adams.]

placed in the hands of the syndics, for administration, and this
without affecting the prior liens of a creditor, no laws for the
transfer of the property of creditors can be effectual. The
proceedings in the district court of New Orleans show that
Mr Barker, representing the petitioners, endeavoured to obtain
the appointment of syndics, and disappointed in this purpose,
he turned round, and seeks to set the law under which he was
desirous of acting aside. He thus became a party to those
proceedings and was bound by them. This point has been
settled by this court in the case of Clay v Smith, 3 Peters 319.
Mr Jones, in reply, contended, that the constitution and laws
of the United States, had guarantied to citizens of the United
States the right to resort to the courts of the United States for
the recovery of debts due to them, and by no state laws, or
state proceedings, could these rights be interfered with. The
remedy for a wrong in the courts of the United States, is a
part of the privilege secured by the constitution, and the motives which induced the introduction of the provision into the
constitution, establishes the exclusive power of the federal tribunals in such cases. It was considered as sqcuring an impartial administration of justice, and the confidence which
such a provision would necessarily produce, was one of the
means by which the permanency of the government would be
established.
In the case before the court, the petitioners had a mortgage
on the property of their debtor, and it was one which, as it
was executed before a notary, entitled the creditor to proceed without notice to the debtor, by the via executiva, under
the laws of Louisiana, and seize and sell the property without
notice to the debtor.
Upon the issuing of this process the creditors were interfered
with by an injunction, and after this the "transaction" was
entered into which has been so frequently referred to, and is
fully before-the court.
The entering into this transaction was not an abandonment
of the rights of the petitioners, it was no more than a suspension of their exercise, and the lien of the judgment and execution was not removed, but proceedings under it were postponed for the period stated in the transaction. When a credi-

JANUARY TERM 1835.

591

[Life and Fire Insurance Company of New York v. Adams.]

tor. takes a judgment in addition to his prior security, the
security is not avoided.
The transaction, and the judgment entered in 1826, were a
judicial lien on the property of the debtor. They authorized a
sale of the property as soon as the period arrived which was
fixed by the agreements of the parties, and were a grant of
execution by a decree, and this judgment, and the rights of
the parties under it, cannot be disturbed. No inquiry can be
made into the validity or legality of the judgment in any other
mode than by writ of error. All the process to enforce it, is
given by the judgment.
The transaction is equivalent to a decree of foreclosure. If
the judgment upon it was interlocutory, was not the district
judge bound to make it final.
Mr Jones also contended, that there was no law of the state
which deprived insolvents of their right to appear in a court of
justice, certainly no law which prevented this in a court of
the United States. The effect of such a rule would be to take
from the courts of the United States their jurisdiction over persons within reach of their process. Such a law would be
against the constitution of the United States.
He also contended, that the provisional syndic, (and no other
syndic existed when the execution was in the hands of the
marshal) is but a depository of the property of thp insolvent.
The syndio has no rights in the property, he has only an equity
of redemption, and may divest the rights of prior lien creditors,
only by paying off the incumbrances.
In this view of the case, the action required of the district
judge, when he was called upon to sign the judgment for the
residue of the notes, was only to be ministerial, the parties
had previously adjusted all other questions, and the form of an
entry of judgment, according to the rules of the court, was
only required.
The powers held by Mr Barker, were full and sufficient for
him to confess the judgment. He acted under the authority
given by Adams to Mr Eckford, which extended to his successor, the president of the Life and Fire Insurance Company,
who took his place after him. But if this was not sufficient,
his authority under those who had a transfer of the debt due

SUPREME COURT.
[Life and Fire Insurance Company of New York v. Adams.]

by Adams, under the Mercantile Insurance Company, was
complete, and was ample.
Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The petition for a mandamus states, among other things,
that Christopher Adams of Iberville, in Louisiana, on the 16th
day of January 1824, at New Orleans, executed and acknowledged before a notary public, a mortgage of a plantation,
called the Belle Plantation, in Iberville, with seventy slaves,
for securing to the petitioners divers sums of money, amounting to 32,522 dollars and 50 cents, at different periods, the last
payment to fall due on the 18th day of January 1829, all bearing interest at the rate of seven per cent per annum. At the
time of executing the said mortgage, sundry notes were also
given for the payment of the same sums of money.
In consequence of the failure of the said Adams to pay any
part of the said debt, application was made to the honourable
Thomas 13. Robertson, then judge of the district court of the
United States for the eastern district of Louisiana, for an order
of seizure and sale, who granted the same, in the following
words
"Let the mortgaged premises, set forth and stated in the
plaintiff's petition, be seized and sold, as therein prayed for,
and in the manner directed by law, subject to the payment of
the debts of the plaintiff. THOMAs B. ROBERTSON, Judge U.
S. Eastern District of Louisiana."
John Nicholson, the marshal, who seized the mortgaged
property, and advertised the same for sale, was stopped by a
writ of injunction, on which the following return was made
"received this writ of injunction this 18th of March 1826, and
served a copy thereof, and of plaintiff's petition, on Ripley and
Conrad, on same day released the property at suit of Life and
Fire Insurance Company of New York against Christopher
Adams, and returned into court the 20th of March instant."
On the 2d day of May 1826, the petitioners entered into a
transaction with the said Christopher Adams, before a notary
public, in which it was stipulated, that the injunction be
dissolved, and in which the defendant agreed to confess judgment, and did confess judgment, on all the notes then due.

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Life and Fire Insurance Company of New York v. Adams.]

He further stipulated to confess judgment on the residue of
the notes, in the deed of mortgage mentioned, as they should
respectively become due, "and in default of such confession
of judgment, the said Christopher Adams did, by the said
transaction, constitute and appoint Henry Eckford, president of
the Life and Fire Insurance Company,,or his successor in office
for the time being, his attorney in fact, and Irrevocable, in his
name and stead to appear in said court and cause judgment to
be entered up against him, the said Adams, for each and every
of said notes, with interest, as aforesaid, whenever the same
shall arrive at maturity, as aforesaid." And the said Adams
further gave to the said Henry Eckford or to his successor in
office for the time being, attorney as aforesaid, full power of
substitution in the premisses.
And the said Life and Fire Insurance Company, in consideration of such confession of judgment, and preserving all
their liens, mortgages and preferences in and over the mortgaged premises, agreed to stay execution until the 18th day
of January 1829, when the last note would arrive at maturity
It was farther agreed, that this transaction shall be entered
upon the records of the court of the United States for the eastern district of Louisiana, as a decree of said court, and shall
have all the force and effect as though it were entered up in
open court.
In pursuance of this transaction, a judgment was recorded
in the said district court, on the 18th of May 1826, which
the judge died without signing. The petitioners then transferred their interest in the said debt to Josiah Barker, in trust
for the Mercantile Insurance Company of New York, with
power to use their names in the collection thereof. In the
instrument of transfer, the said Life and Fire Insurance Company constituted Josiah Barker, his executors, administrators
and assigns, their true and lawful attorney and attorneys irrevocable, in their names, but to and for the use of the said
Mercantile Insurance Company of New York, to pursue and
enforce in all courts and places whatever, the recovery and
payment of the said money.
The honourable Samuel H. Harper, the successor of the
honourable Thomas B. Robertson, having refused to complete
the said judgment of his predecessor, by signing it, a mandaVOL. Ix.-3 Z

SUPREME COURT.
[Life and Fire Insurance Company of New York v. Adams.]

mus was directed by this court, ordering him to do so, in compliance with which, the said judgment was signed.
The judgment is in these words:
"Life and Fire Insuiance Company of New York v. Christopher Adams.
"In this case, the plaintiffs having filed in this court a transaction, &c. 'I t istherefore ordered, adjudged and decreed, that
in pursuance of said transaction, the injunction in this case
shall be dissolved , and it is further ordered, adjudged and decreed, that judgment be entered up in favour of the plaintiff,
in pursuance of said transaction, for all the notes therein specified, which have become due and payable, with seven per
cent interest thereon, &c. to wit, the sum of 1500 dollars, &c.'
"It is further ordered, adjudged and decreed, in pursuance
of the transaction aforesaid, that whenever any of the notes
mentioned in the said transaction as not yet arrived at maturity, shall become due and payable, that the judgment shall
be entered up for the plaintiffs upon all and every of the said
notes as they arrive at maturity, &c.
"It is further ordered, adjudged and decreed, that there
shall be a stay of execution, &c. until the 18th day of January
1829, and that if the amount of the judgment in this suit is
not then paid, &c., that the lands, slaves and movable property
described in the mortgage mentioned in the plaintiff's petition,
shall be sold according to law, to satisfy the judgment in the
premises."
Application was, at the same time, made to the district
court, to enter a further judgment for the notes which had
become due subsequent to the 16th day of May 1826, which
was refused.
The petitioners insisted on their right to require a judgment
for the whole sum, under the irrevocable power given to confess it, but the judge declared that without notice to the
defendants, he would permit no further judgment to be entered.
The petition states at large the different views entertained
by the judge and the petitioners on the application. At length
the following rule was entered.
"Life and Fire Insurance Companv of New York v Christopher Adams.
"On motion of George Eustis, counsel for the plaintiffs, on,

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Life and Fire Insurance Company of New York v Adams ]

filing all the notes referred to in the transaction on file, it is
ordered, in pursuance of the mandamus of the supreme court
of the United States, requiring the honourable judge of this
court to sign the judgment rendered in the premises and to
order execution to issue, that execution do issue for the whole
amount of the judgment."
Under this rule an execution was issued for the whole sum
claimed on all the notes, without any direction that it should
be first levied on the mortgaged property. On this account,
the marshal, by order of the plaintiff's attorney, returned it
unexecuted, and a new execution was demanded.
In consequence of the refusal of Judge Harper to enter
judgment for the residue of the notes, Josiah Barker caused a
paper to be read in open court, in which, as successor to, and as
having entire control over, the said notes, and in virtue of full
and irrevocable powers from the Life ana Fire Insurance Company of New York, he did, in behalf of the defendant, Christopher Adams, by virtue of the compromise entered into between
him and Josiah Barker, agent for the said Life and Fire Insurance Company, on the 2d of May 1826, confirmed by decree
of this court, confess judgment on all the said notes, which
confession lie requested might be entered on the clerk's minutes.
The judge refused to allow the entry, without notice to the
opposite party; but offered to grant a rule requiring the defendants to show cause why the judgment should not be entered.
This rule being declined, the judge permitted the confession
to be filed, subject to all legal exceptions. An execution for
the whole sum was thereupon issued, which was accompanied
by a letter from Josiah Barker to the marshai, requesting him
to give notice to Christopher Adams, and to Nathaniel Cox
the provisional syndic of the estate of the said Adams, who had
become insolvent, that he, the marshal, considered himself in
possession of the property in virtue of the former seizure, and
should proceed to sell the same should the marshal refuse to
do this, the marshal was required to seize the property and to
sell it, by virtue of the execution then in his hand.
Supposing from the proceedings of the court in a similar
case, in which also he was counsel, that the execution issued
in this case would be quashed, and the said marshal having
refused to proceed without indemnity against the estate of

SUPREME COURT
[Life and Fire Insurance Company of New York v Adams.]

Christopher Adams, which had been surrendered under the insolvent law of Louisiana, the said Josiah Barker requested the
marshal to return this second execution.
On the 30th of April 1834, a new execution was issued on
the judgment of the 18th of May 1826, to be levied on the
mortgaged property in whose ever hands it might be found.
The marshal refused to execute this writ, further than by
giving notice thereof to Nathaniel Cox, the provisional syndic
for the creditors of Christopher Adams; whereupon a petition
was presented to the Hon. Samuel H. Harper, praying the interposition of the court by commanding the marshal to sell the
mortgaged premises without requiring any bond of indemnity;
or by granting a rule requiring the marshal to show cause why
he should not be attached for contempt of the court, in disobeying or refusing to execute its mandate.
The rule was granted before the time for returning the execution had elapsed, and was therefore discharged, whereupon
the marshal made the following return
" May 1st, 1834.
"Gave notice of the seizure to Nathaniel Cox, esquire, provisional syndic of C. Adams, the defendant, the property having been previously surrendered by him to his creditors, and
accepted by the court of the fourth judicial district of the state
of Louisiana, and placed under the charge and control of N.
Cox, esquire, as provisional syndic thereof. The further execution of this writ could not be effected.
"Returned 19th of May 1834.
"JOHN NICHOLSON,

U. S. Marshal."
On the succeeding day a new rule was awarded against the
marshal, who appeared on th? return day thereof, and showed
for cause against it his return on the writ as recited above.
After solemn argument, thejudge determined the return of
the marshal, that he found the property in the hands of others,
was prima facze evidence that it belonged to others, and that
he should not require the marshal to take the responsibility of
enforcing the execution without indemnity.
On the 27th of May, application was made to the judge, to

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Life and Fire Insurance Company of New York v. Adams.]

sign the confession of judgment, filed by Josiah Barker in the
name of Christopher Adams, on the 10th of March, subject to
all legal exceptions, due notice of the filing thereof having
been served on Christopher Adams and Nathaniel Cox; but
the judge refused to sign the same, saying that it was not a
judgment of the court.
The petitioners, conceiving that they are entitled to have
the execution issued on the 30th day of April 1834 enforced
against the mortgaged premises by the marshal of the United
States, and to have a further execution for the balance of
their aforesaid claim, either by the authority of the aforesaid
mandamus, or by having the aforesaid confession of the 10th
of March last signed, or by virtue of the original order of
seizure and sale or otherwise. pray a further writ of mandamus, directed to Samuel H. Harper, judge of the district court
of the United States for the eastern district of Louisiana, and
if necessary, also to John Nicholson, marshal of the said court,
or otherwise direct such a course of proceeding as will secure
the due execution of the mandamus heretofore granted by this
court, and afford them such other relief as they may be entitled to in the premises.
Judge Harper appeared by his counsel, and showed for cause
against issuing the mandamus for which application was made
That in obedience to a mandamus issued by the supreme
court of the United States, he did, on the 7th day of March
1834, sign a judgment entered in this cause by his predecessor in office, on the 18th day of May 1826,_ and directed
that execution should issue thereon. This was a specific judgment for the amount of all the notes which had then become
due, and which were enumerated in a transaction between the
parties then committed to record. It was stipulated in this act
of compromise, on which the judgment was entered, that the
defendant, Christopher Adams, should confess judgment on
each of the remaining notes as it should fall due, and in default of such confession, lie consented that Henry Eckford,
president of the Life and Fire Insurance Company, or his successor in office for the time being, should appear in court and
cause judgment to be entered against the defendant. No confession of judgment has been entered, nor has any judgment
been rendered on any one of the said notes. When the judg-

SUPREME COURT
[Life and Fire Insurance Company of New York v. Adams.]

ment of the 18th of May 1826 was signed, Josiah Barker, agent
for the plaintiffs, offered to confess judgment in the name and
on behalf of Christopher Adams for the residue of the notes.
The court refused to receive this confession for the following
reasons. The plaintiffs, instead of causing judgment to be confessed, in conformity with the stipulation contained in the
transaction, appear to have abandoned their original suit. No
step was taken until the 13th of April 1829, after all the notes
had become due, when a new suit was instituted by the Mercantile Insurance Company of New York, to whom the claim
had been assigned, to recover the whole amount due, including
the judgment of the 18th of May 1826. The defendant filed
an answer, charging the plaintiffs, among other things, with
usury, upon which they, on the 12th of January 1831, suffered
a nonsuit when, after this proceeding, the agent for the
plaintiffs offered to confess judgment in the name of the defendant, no notice of this intended confession had been given to
the defendant, and a rule upon bmu to show cause against the
judgment, was declined by the plaintiffs. Had the person offering to confess judgment even been the regularly constituted
attorney of the defendant, there would have been, under all
the circumstances of the case, some objection to receiving his
confession without notice. But he was not the regular attorney. In the transaction of the 2d of May 1826, Christopher
Adams stipulated to confess judgment on all the notes as they
should become due, "1and in default of such confession, he
constituted and appointed Henry Eckford, president of the Life
and Fire Insurance Company, or his successor in office for the
time being, his attorney in fact, and irrevocable, in his name
and stead, to appear in court and cause judgment to be entered
up," &c., and the said Adams further gave to the said Henry
Eckford, president as aforesaid, or to his successor in office for
the time being, attorney as aforesaid, full power of substitution
in the premises, &c. Josiah Barker is not the substitute of
Henry Eckford, or his successor in office for the time being.
The permission to file this paper, subject to all legal exceptions, did not convert it into a confession of judgment by the
defendant or his attorney, nor could the mere notice that such
a paper was filed add to its efficacy, there being no day fixed
for contesting it. The transfer of the claim to Josiah Barker,

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Life and Fire Insurance Company of Now York v. Adams.]

in trust for the Mercantile Company of New York, does not
substitute him for Henry Eckford, or his successor in office for
the time being.
If either the mortgage acknowledged before the notary, or
the transaction of the 22d May 1826, had itself the force of a
judgment, no mandamus would be required to order the rendition of a new judgment, but these documents require judicial
action to make them operative.
It is a circumstance which ought to suggest, and which has
suggested circumspection in the proceedings to be taken in this
cause, that though the judgment was recorded in May 1826,
and Judge Robertson died late in 1828, and held several courts
in the meantime, yet he never signed this judgment, nor was
any application made to him for judgment on the notes which
afterwards fell due during his life, though they amounted to
six or seven.
In showing cause against a mandamus to compel the marshal to levy an execution on the mortgaged property whereever it may be found, Judge Harper observes, that after the
emanation of the executibn, Josiah Barker addressed a petition
to the court, stating many facts connected with the execution,
and complaining that the marshal refused to enforce it without
being indemnified, and praying for a rule requiring him to
show cause why he should not be attached for contempt in disobeying the mandate of the court. The rule was granted.
The marshal returned, "that he had given notice of seizure
to Nathaniel Cox, provisional syndic of Christopher Adams, the
defendant, the property having been previously surrendered by
him to his creditors, and accepted by the court of the fourth
judicial district of the state of Louisiana, and placed under the
charge and control of Nathaniel Cox, as provisional syndic
thereof, the further execution of the writ could not be effected."
Accompanying this return was the following letter
"John Nicholson, Esq., marshal.
"Dear sir, As counsel for N. Cox, syndic of the creditors
of Christopher Adams, I am authorized to notify you, that any
attempt to seize the property in his hands, at the suit of the

SUPREME COURT.
[Life and Fire Insurance Company of New York v. Adams.]

Life and Fire Insurance Company, will be resisted, and that
you will proceed therein at your peril.
"Respectfully,
"G . STRAWBRIDGE."
The court was restrained from entering into any inquiry in
whom the property was vested, by the considerations, that the
creditors who claimed it were not before the court, and could
not be brought before it on a rule upon the marshal. The
trustee for the Mercantile Company of New York contended,
that the property still remained in possession of the marshal,
under the order of seizure granted by Judge Robertson, but
the court was of opinion that such presumption would be extravagant,.inasmuch as the injunction continued in force for
more than eight years, for, though dissolved in terms by the
judgment of May 1826, that judgment, by the laws of Louisiana, had no force until it was signed in pursuance of the mandamus of the supreme court. In addition to this, it appears,
from the return of the marshal, that the property was released
on receiving the injunction.
The judge also conceived, that by a fair construction of the
transaction of the 2d of May 1826, the plaintiffs must be
understood to have agreed to discontinue their suit, in consideration of the dissolution of the injunction, as a prosecution of
the suit, after the dissolution of the injunction, was not within
the intention of the parties. He was also of opinion, that the
property being found in possession of a third party, is no prima facie evidence that it belonged to that third party, but
that this was a question which could not be investigated, on a
rule against the marshal, in the absence of the party interested.
He was also of opinion, that the marshal, not beihg indemnified, and proceeding at his peril, ought to be governed by his
own judgment, and would make himself personally liable to
the creditors of Adams, if they should thereafter establish their
right to the property ceded to them. This liability has been
established by the supreme court of Louisiana against this
very marshal, in which the court said, "that if acting in his
capacity as marshal, he wrongs a citizen of a state, he is individually answerable, and in her courts." In another case
judgment was given against the same marshal for the amount

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Life and Fire Insurance Company of New York v. Adams.]

of money made by him on an execution, issued out of the
district court of the United States, under which be had seized
and sold property in the hands of the syndic of the debtor.
The judge adds, that he has never thought it his duty to compel the officers of the court to perform acts for the benefit of
others, which might work their own ruin.
Counsel have given more precision to the general application of the petitioners, by presenting five separate and alternative prayers for a mandamus commanding a particular thing,
each application founded on the rejection of that which precedes it.
The first is for such an execution as that which was issued
on the 12th of March 1834, at the instance of the plaintiffs,
being an execution for the amount of all the notes secured by
the mortgage and transaction in the petition mentioned, to be
levied on the mortgaged property but if not sufficient, then on
the property generally of the said Christopher Adams, whereof
he was owner on the 18th day of May 1826, into whose hands
soever the same may have come.
The applicant does not inform us, whether the execution is
to be issued on the judgment entered by Judge Robertson and
signed by Judge Harper, or on the confession made by Josiah
Barker, in the name of Christopher Adams, on the 10th day of
March 1834.
Judge Harper has shown for cause against an execution for
the whole debt, on the judgment entered by Judge Robertson
on the 18th day of May 1826, that the whole debt was not then
due, and that the judgment in its terms, comprehends that
portion of the debt only which was actually due. He shows
for cause against any execution founded on the paper delivered
by Josiah Barker, on the 10th day of March 1834, that Josiah
Barker exhibited no power of attorney from Christopher Adams,
and showed no right to personate him. That the court did
not receive his confession as the confession of Christopher
Adams, nor enter any judgment upon it. Of consequence,
that act cannot warrant an execution of any description.
The record, we think, verifies these statements.
If the cause shown against a mandamus to issue such a writ
of execution as is asked, or the judgment in its present state
be deemed sufficient, then the petitioners ask for a mandamus
VOL. ix.-4 A

SUPRENME COURT
[Life and Fire Insurance Company of New York v. Adams.]

commanding the judge to amend such judgment, by extending
the terms thereof, so as to make the same absolute upon all
the notes and sums of money enumerated in the original transaction, &c.
To extend thejudgment to subjects not comprehended within
it, is to make a new judgment. This court is requested to
issue a mandamus to the court for the eastern district of Louisiana, to enter a judgment in a cause supposed to be depending
in that court, not according to the opinion which it may have
formed on the matter in controversy, but according to the
opinion which may be formed in this court, on the suggestions
of one of the parties. This court is asked to decide that the
merits of the cause are with the plaintiffs, and to command the
4istrict court to render judgment in their favour. Itis an attempt to introduce the supervising power of this court into a
cause while depending in an inferior court, and prematurely to
decide it. In addition to the obvious unfitness of such a procedure, its direct repugnance to the spirit and letter of our
whole judicial system cannot escape notice. The supreme
court, in the exercise of its ordinary appellate jurisdiction, can
take cognizance of no case until a final judgment or decree
shall have been made in the inferior court. Though the merits of the cause may have been substantially decided, while
any thing, though merely formal, remains to be done, this
court cannot pass upon the subject. If from any intermediate
stage in the proceedings an appeal might be taken to the
supreme court, the appeal might be repeated to the great oppression of the parties. So if this court might interpose by way
of mandamus in the progress of a cause, and order a judgment
or decree, a writ of error might be brought to the judgment,
or an appeal prayed from the decree and a judgment or decree entered in pursuance of a mandamus might be afterwards
reversed. Such a procedure would subvert our whole system
of jurisprudence.
The mandamus ordered at the last term, directed the performance of a mere ministerial act. In delivering its opinion
the court said "on a mandamus a superior court will never
direct in what manner the discretion of an inferior tribunal
shall be exercised, but they will, in a proper case, require the
inferior court to decide." To order the district court to give

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Life and Fire Insurance Company of New York v. Adams.]

judgment for the plaintiffs, is "to direct in what manner its
discretion shall be exercised."
Sufficient cause is shown against granting this prayer.
In the event of this prayer being rejected, the court is asked
to award a mandamus to the district judge, commanding him
to consummate the interlocutory part of the said judgment, by
entering and signing final judgment upon and for all the notes
and sums of money mentioned in the transaction aforesaid as
not being then due; and thereupon to issue such execution, &c.
This prayer does not vary substantially from its predecessor.
It requires the same interference of the supreme court in the
proceedings of the inferior court while in progress, and the
same direction how its discretion shall be exercised. It requires a direction to the district court to give judgment for one
of the parties, and prescribes the party for which it shall be
given. The cause shown against granting the preceding
prayer applies equally to this.
Should this last prayer also be rejected, the court is next
asked to award a mandamus commanding the district judge
to compel the marshal duly to execute such process as may
be issued, notwithstanding the cession of the estate of the said
Adams, and the appointment of a provisional syndic thereof.
It is the duty of the marshal to execute all process which may
be placed in his hands, but he performs this duty at his peril,
and under the guidance of law. He must, of course, exercise
some judgment in its performance. Should he fail to obey
the exigit of the writ, without a legal excuse, or should he, in
obeying its letter, violate the rights of others,, he is liable to
the action of the injured party.
In the particular case in which the creditor asks for a mandamus to the district judge to compel the officer to seize and
sell the property mentioned in the writ, that property is no
longer in possession of the debtor against whom the process is
directed, but has been transferred, by law, to other persons,
who are directed, by the same law, in what manner they are
to dispose of it. To construe this law, or to declare the extent of its obligation, the questions must be brought before the
court in proper form, and in a case in which it can take jurisdiction. This case, so far as it is before any judicial tribunal,
is depending in a district court of the United States, and per-

SUPREME COURT.
[Life and Fire Insurance Company of New York v. Adams.]

haps in a state court of Louisiana. The supreme court of the
United States has no original jurisdiction over it, and cannot
exercise appellate jurisdiction previous to a final judgment or
decree, further than to order acts, purely ministerial, which the
duty of the district court requires it to perform. This court
cannot, in the present condition of the case, construe judicially
the laws which govern it, or decide in whom the property is
vested. In so doing, it would intrude itself into the management of a case requiring all the discretion of the district judge,
and usurp his powers.
The mandamus cannot be granted as prayed.
The fifth prayer asks a mandamus requiring the judge
to compel the marshal to execute the writ of execution heretofore issued, on the 30th of April 1834, on the said judgment,
for the amount of the notes of the said Adams, due on the
16th of May 1826, notwithstanding the cession and other
matters mentioned by the marshal in the return thereof.
This prayer differs from that which preceded it only in the
amount for which the execution is to issue. So far as respects the interference of the supreme court in construing laws
not regularly before it, and controlling the discretion of the
district court, they stand on precisely the same principle. The
objections, therefore, which were stated to granting the fourth
prayer, apply equally to the fifth.
The court cannot grant a mandamus ordering the district
court to perform any one of the specific acts which have been
stated in the petition, or in the more particular application
contained in the statement presented by counsel.
Though the supreme court will not order an inferior tribunal to render judgment for or against either party; it will, in a
proper case, order such court to proceed to judgment. Should
it be possible, that in a case ripe for judgment, the court before
whom it was depending, could, perseveringly, refuse to terminate the cause; this court, without indicating the character of
the judgment, would be required by its duty to order the rendition of some judgment but, to justify this mandate, a plain
case of refusing to proceed in the inferior court ought to be
made out. In Ex parte Bradstreet, 8 Peters 590, this court said.
"We have only to say, that a judge must exercise his discretion in those intermediate proceedings which take place

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Life and Fire Insurance Company of New York v Adams.j

between the institution and trial of a suit, and if, in the performance of this duty, he acts oppressively, it is not to this
court that application is to be made.
"A mandamus, or a rule to show cause, is asked in the case
in which a verdict has been given, for the purpose of ordering
the judge to enter up judgment upon the verdict. The affidavit itself shows that judgment is suspended for the purpose
of considering a motion which has been made for a new trial.
The verdict was given at the last term, and we understand it
is not unusual in the state of New York for a judge to hold a
motion for a new trial under advisement till the succeeding
term. There is then nothing extraordinary in the fact, that
Judge Conklin should take time till the next term to decide
on the motion for a new trial."
In the case now under consideration, no application is made
for a mandamus directing the court generally to proceed to
judgment. The petitioners require a mandamus ordering the
judge to render a specific judgment in their favour. It is not
even shown that the case is in a condition for a final judgment, nor is it shown that the judge is unwilling to render
one. The contrary may rather be inferred -from his readiness
to grant a rule on the defendant, requiring him to show cause
why judgment should not be rendered. In a case of such
long standing, where it is more than possible the defendant
might not be in court, where judgment is asked on a confession made by the agent of the plaintiffs, professing to be the attorney of the defendant, the judge may be excused for requiring that notice should be given to the defendant.
The rule is discharged.
Mr Justice M'LAN.
I concur with the opinion which has been delivered.
At first I was inclined to think that, under the general
prayer for relief, the court might award a mandamus directing
the district judge to enter a judgment in the case. Not that
this court, on a mandamus, should direct the district court to
enter a judgment in behalf of either party, but that, in the due
exercise of its discretion, it should proceed to render a judgment ii the case, in order that such judgment might be brought
before this court for revision, by writ of error.

SUPREME COURT.
[Life and Fire Insurance Company of New York v. Adams.]

But as there is no specific prayer for a mandamus, on the
ground that the court has refused to give a judgment, I am
content, as it involves a mere question of practice, to agree with
my brother judges, that a prayer for this writ must point out
specifically the ground of the application.
Whatever effect the insolvent law of Louisiana may have to
divest the jurisdiction of a state court, where the property of a
defendant is transferred to the syndic ;'such cannot be the effect
on the jurisdiction of a court of the United States. No state
law, or proceedings under a state law, can divest a court of the
United States of jurisdiction. And in this case, I can entertain no doubt, that the district court, having jurisdiction, may
proceed to a final judgment. Whether an execution, issued
upon such judgment, may be levied upon the property in the
hands of the syndic, presents a question which depends upon
very different principles.

On consideration of the motion made in this case for a mandamus to be addressed to the honourable Samuel H. Harper,
district judge of the United States for the eastern district of
Louisiana, and of the arguments of counsel thereupon had, as
well in opposition to, as in support of the motion it is now here
ordered and adjudged by this court, that the mandamus prayed
for be, and the same is hereby refused, and that the said motion be, and the same is hereby overruled.

