JANUARY TERM 1835.

ROBERT FENWICR, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR V
AND

ROBERT CHAPMAN,

BY KITTY

461

ELIZA CHAPM1AN

CHAPMAN THEIR M1O-

THER AND NEXT FRIEND, DEFENDANTS IN ERROR.
By the statute of Maryland of 1796, ch. 67, s. 13, manumissions ofslaves, by will
and testament, may be made to take effect at the death of the testator. The
testator may devise or charge his real estate with the payment of debts, to
make the manumission effective, and not in prejudice of creditors.
The right to freedom may be tried at law, in a suit against the executors, at
the instance of the manumitted slaves; and the executor may, in such suit,
admit the existence of a sufficiency of real assets or real estate to pay the
debts ofls testator.
A judgment at law in favour of manumitted slaves, in a suit against an executor, obtained on the admission by the executor of a sufficiency of assets,
may be set aside in equity, if such admission was made without foundation
in fact, or in fraud or mistake. In such a proceeding in equity, to which
the executor, the manumitted slaves, and all persons interested have been
made parties, there may be an entire review of the administration of the
'estate, of the conduct of the executor, and thatofthe creditors, in regard to
the estate, and in respect to the vigilance of the executor in payiig, and of
the creditors in the pursuit oftheir debts.
The words in a will, "after my debts and funeral charges are paid, I devise
and bequeath as follows," amount to a charge upon the real estate for the
payment of debts.
When a testator manumits his slaves by will and testament, and it clearly
appears to have been his intention that the manumission shall take place at
all events, the manifest intention, without express words, to charge the real
-estate, will charge the real estate for the payment of debts, if there be not
personal assets enough without the manumitted slaves, to pay the debts of
the testator.
In such a case, the creditors of the testator must look to the real estate for
the payment of debts which remain unpaid, after the personal estate, exclusive of the manumitted slaves, has been exhausted, and they may pursue
their claims in equity, or according to tie statutes of Maryland subjecting
real estate to the payment of debts.
When an executor permits manumitted slaves to go at large and free, under
a manumission to take effect at the death of the testator, he cannot recall
such assent. Nor can it be revoked under an order of the orphan's court of
Maryland, for the sale of all the personal estate of the testator; that court
not having jurisdiction of the question of manumission.
It being admitted that a testator left real estate to an amount in value more
than sufficient to pay his debts, without the sale of slaves manumitted by
his will, those persons are free, notwithstanding a deficiency of personal
assets.

SUPREME COURT
[Fenwick v. Chapman.]

IN error to the circuit court of the United States, for the
county of Washington in the District of Columbia.
The defendants in error instituted a suit in the circuit court
to recover their freedou, alleging that they were entitled to it
under the last will and testament of their late mistress, Frances
Edelin deceased, in the state of Maryland. The plaintiff in
error claimed the petitioners as his slaves, having purchased
them of the sole acting executor of the deceased, at a sale
made by the order and authority of the orphan's court of Prince
George's county, in Maryland, and, by the consent of all
parties to the suit, the executor was admitted to defend the
same in the court below It was proved in the circuit court,
that the slaves were sold by the executor, with all the other
personal estate of the deceased, by authority of the aforesaid orphan's court, as assets in the hands of the executor, to
pay the debts of the deceased, there not being assets enough
to pay the same without the sale of said slaves, and without
recourse to the real estate. It was contended that the sale
was a good one, and that the slaves were not entitled to
their freedom. The following facts in the case were agreed,
and submitted to the court, wtth the other evidence in the case,
and making a part of the record now before this court.
It is agreed in this case1. That the petitioners are the same named in the will of
Frances Edelin deceased, to whom she gave their freedom
after her death, as appears by the said will, a copy whereof is
hereto annexed.
2. That Edelin, the defendant, was the executor of the last
will and testament of said deceased, and, as such, sold, in the
year 1833, said petitioners to the other defendant, Fenwick.
3. That the sale of the petitioners was made in Prince
George's county aforesaid, where the deceased lived at the time
of her death, and where the petitioners were, and that, from
the time of deceased's death to the time of their sale, they were
permitted by the executor to go at large as free, and that after
the purchase made by Fenwick he brought them to the District
of Columbia, where the present suit was instituted, and that
after the institution of the said suit, Fenwick transferred his
claim to the petitioners to the defendant Edelin, who repaid
him his money, and appears to defend the suit.

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Fenwick v. Chapman.]

4. That the deceased left real estate to an amount in value
more than sufficient to pay her debts without the sale of the
negroes emancipated by the will, as will appear by her will
referred to, and made a part of this agreement, but not personal
estate sufficient.
5. That the original copy of all the proceedings had in the
orphan's court of Prince George's county, relative to the settlement of the deceased's estate, by her executors or administrators, may be filed as part of this case.
The will of Frances Edelin, the proceedings in the orphan's
court of Prince George's county, and all the material facts in
the case, are fully stated in the opinion of this court, delivered
by Mr Justice Wayne. Upon a hearing in the circuit court,
judgment was given in favour of the petitioners in that court,
now defendants in error, and from that judgment a writ of
error was sued out to this court.
The case was argued by Mr Brent, for the plaintiff in error,
and by Mr Key, for the defendants.
Mr Brent stated, that the only questions for the court to decide, are, whether the defendants in error are entitled to their
freedom or not, under the circumstances of the case, and whether the plaintiff in error (the executor) has, or had not, the
right to sell them, as assets to pay the debts of the testator.
After reading the petition, the answer, and the agreement as
to the facts in the case, and the will of Frances Edelin, he referred to the proceedings in the orphan's court of Prince
George's county; which showed that the personal estate of the
testator was insufficient to pay the debts of the deceased,
and that under these circumstances, the orphan's court ordered
the sale of the negroes, and they were sold.
Prior to the year 1796, there could not be, under the laws
of Maryland, a manumission of slaves by will. This act was,
in 1796, repealed, under certain limitations, and among them,
that no such manumission is available if done in prejudice to
creditors.
The first ground for the reversal of the judgment of the circuit court, is, that this manumission was in prejudice of creditors. The fact of the insufficiency of the personal estate, ex-

SUPREME COURT
[Fenwick v. Chapman.]

clusive of those negroes, is established by the proceedings of
the orphan's court, and the accounts of the executor.
Creditors are not bound to resort to the real estate for the
satisfaction of their claims, when personal estate can be found.
Cited 1 P Wins 294, note, 2 P Wins 664, 1 Rob. on Wills
67, Kelty's Laws of Maryland, act of 1798, ch. 101, subdiv
7 chap. This act declares what shall be assets for the payment of debts, among which are negroes.
In a case in.1 Harris and Gill's Reports, the testator charges
his land with the payment of debts, rather than that his negroes shall be sold, and deprived of their freedom, which is
given to them. In this case, the question as to the construction
of the act of 1796, was waived.
Mr Key, contra.
The testator died m 1825, and, by her will, she charges her
whole estate with the payment of her debts, both real and personal, and gave freedom to the defendants in error. The executor assented to the bequest of freedom, they were at liberty for eight years, when, under an order of the orphan's
court, to which they were not parties, and of the proceedings
of which court they had no notice or knowledge, they were
taken and sold. Over such a case, that court had no authority or jurisdiction. The court could not manumit.
It will be found, on an examination of the proceedings of the
orphan's court, that, in July 1833, the balance due the executor
was 591 dollars, and the court did not specifically order the
negroes sold. The order was general, to sell all the personal
estate, and not to sell any particular part of it. This is shown,
by the acts agreed.
By the 24th chapter of the law of Maryland of 1729, negroes are not to be sold as long as there are other goods. In
this case, the only debts are to the executor himself for overpayments by him in his administration of the estate, and he
is the residuary legatee.
All the legatees, on a deficiency of other assets, must contribute. 2 Vern. 708, 2 Mad. Ch. 109, 107, 2 Yes. Jun. 415,
420.
Where it may be collected from a will, that any particular
legacy should be paid, and exempted from contribution, in the

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Fenwick v. Chapman.]

event of a deficiency to pay debts, it shall be done. In the
case of a bequest of freedom, there must, from its very nature,
be such an intention. How could the negroes be made to contribute I The whole of the bequest is defeated, and its purpose destroyed, if the executor has a lien on the freedom of the
negroes for contribution. Freedom cannot be parted, It cannot
be enjoyed, nor does it exist unless it is entire. Any restraint
upon it, which puts in the power of another a right to sell a
part of it, destroys it altogether.
No inference can be drawn from the bequest of freedom,
but that it was entire and unincumbered. It was fully,
completely and irrevocably bestowed, when it was given at all.
Nor does the law warrant the claim which is made by the
counsel for the plaintiff in error; that because there is a deficiency of personal estate, when the real estate is also charged
with the debts of the testator, personal estate, specially bequeathed, shall be taken from a legatee and sold, leaving the
real estate free and unmolested.
It is also contended, that the executor, having consented to
the freedom of the defendants in error, cannot afterwards withdraw this consent, and subject them to slavery Once free,
always free. By no law or proceeding, existing or aLthorized
in any state of the United States, can they again be made
slaves.
Where a legacy has been assented to, or paid by an executor, it cannot be recovered back. This principle applies to the
case before the court, as the freedom of the defendants was
assented to by the executor. Cited, in support of the discharge
of the legacy from reclamation 1 Vern. 94, 2 Ventr. 358, 2
Chan. Cases 145, 1 Chitty's Dig. 630.
Mr Brent, in reply, insisted, that real estate can be resorted
to in no other case, but where there is a deficiency of personal
estate, and even in such a case, by the law of Maryland, an
application to make the real estate liable must be made to the
chancellor.
The testatrixdoesnot charge her whole estate with her debts.
This is not the true interpretation of the will. When debts
are charged by a testator on an estate, that portion of it which,
VOL. ix.-3 I

SUPREME COURT.
[Fenwick v. Chapman.]

according to law, is first held liable to debts, is understood to
be so charged in the first place. This is a just.and legal execution of the will. In Roberts on Wills 175, it is laid down,
that real estate will not be ordered for sale to save a chanty.
Cited also, I P Wms 294.
It is denied that the executor could give the negroes their
Treedom, to the prejudice of creditors. Their rights could not
be affected by any act of the executor. Nor did he give them
their freedom, he barely allowed them to go at large.
Mr Justice WAYNP, delivered the opinion of the Court.
The object of this writ of error is to reverse a judgment of
the circuit court of the District of Columbia, for alleged error
in having adjudged the defendants in error (coloured persons)
to be free and discharged of and from the service of the plaintiff in error.
The judgment of the court was rendered upon a statement
of facts entered into at the trial term of the cause, signed by
the counsel of the parties.
It is necessary, however, to set out the facts in the case more
in detail, as they appear by the record of the proceedings in the
cause.
Eliza Chapman and Robert Chapman, infants and coloured
persons, by -their mother and next friend, claiming to be free
by the laws of the land, allege that they are illegally detained
and confined in custody, by one Robert Fenwick, who sets up
some pretended claim or title to them, as his slaves for life.
They pray that a subpcena may issue to the marshal of the
District of Columbia, commanding him to summon the said
Robert Fenwick to be and appear before the judges of the circuit court of the District of Columbia for the county of WashingtOn, to answer the allegation of the petitioners in the premises. The subpcena was issued, and on the day of the
return of it, the defendant appeared by his attorney, and in his
plea denied that the petitioners were entitled to their freedom,
as alleged, and put himself upon the country.
Before the trial of the issue, by consent of all parties, one
Richard J. Edelin was admitted as a party defendant he being
the executor of the-last well and testament of Frances Edelin,
deceased, late of Prince George's county, Maryland, and hay-

JANUARY TERM 1835.
EFenwick v. Chapman.]

ing, as such, sold the petitioners to the defendant Robert Fenwick, as the executor contends, in virtue of an order of the
orphan's court of Prince George's county, to sell all the personal estate of Frances Edelin. This order was made upon
the petition of the executor, dated 16th July 1833, in which
he states that Frances Edelin, by her will, had directed that
certain negroes should be free at her death, and that he had
discovered there were not assets enough, independent of those
negroes, to discharge the debts of the testatrix.
The executor had included the negroes manumitted by the
will in an inventory and appraisement of the personal estate of
the testatrix, returned by him to the orphan's court on the 17th
of January 1826. The will is dated the 2d day of November
1825. The testatrix died before the 8th day of December of
the same year; and immediately after her death, the defendant,
Richard J. Edelin, took upon himself the burthen and exeoution of her will.
The testatrix begins her will in the following words "In
the name of God, amen. I, Frances Edelin, of Prince George's
county, in the state of Maryland, beig of sound and disposing mind, memory and understanding, do make and publish
this, my last will and testament, in manner and form followirig. First, and principally, I commit my soul to the mercies
of my dear Redeemer and Lord Jesus Christ, and my body to
the earth, to be decently buried, and after my debts andfuneral
charges are paid, I devise and bequeath as follows." Then follow sundry devises and specific legacies, and so much of the
will relating to the freedom of the defendants in error, and to
the other persons manumitted by the will, is in these words
"Item, I give and bequeath to my nephew Richard James
Edelin, the small house and lot now occupied by Robert
Frazer, which I give to him, his heirs and assigns for ever,
with this proviso, that the negroes which are hereinafter mentioned to be free to live in the back room of said house."
"Item, negro woman Letty, her daughter Kitty, a mulatto,
with her three children, to wit, Eliza, Robert and Kitty Jane,
with their future increase, and an old woman named Lucy, I do
hereby declare them free at and after my death, and they shall
have the right to live in and occupy the back room in the house
and lot I give and bequeath to my nephew Richard James

SUPREME COURT.
[Fenwick v. Chapman.]

Edelin. To the two old negro women, I give them and bequeath 10 dollars a year to each of them as long as they live,
and 10 dollars a year, during two years after my death, exclusive of the year in which I die, to mulatto Kitty. Item, my
three nephews, John Aloysius, Richard James and Walter
Alexander Edelin, for and in consideration of the bequests I
have made them, shall pay every year to negro woman Lucy
and to negro woman Letty, 10 dollars for every year the said
negro women may live, as mentioned in the aforegomg item,
and my nephew John B. Edelin, for and in consideration of the
bequests I have left him, shall pay, during the two years
above mentioned, to mulatto Kitty, lOdollars for each year."
The lav of Maryland permitting the manumission of slaves
by will, is in these words, act of 1796, oh. 67, sec. 13, "that
from and after the passage of this act, it shall and may be lawful for every person or persons, capable in law to make a valid
will and testament, to grant freedom to and effect the manumission of, any slave or slaves, belonging to such person or
persons, by his, her or their last will and testament, and such
manumission of any slave or slaves, may be made to take
effect at the death of the testator or testators, or at such other
periods as may be limited in such last will and testament, provided always, that no manumission hereafter to be made by
last will and testament, shall be effectual to give freedom to
any slave or slaves, if the same shall be in prejudice of creditors, nor unless the said slave or slaves shall be under the age
of forty-five years and able to work and gain a sufficient maintenance and livelihood at the time the freedom given shall
commence."
The agreement or statement of facts entered into between
the counsel of the parties, at the trial term of the cause, and
upon which the judgment of the court was given, is as follows.
1. That the petitioners are the same named in the will of
Frances Edelin, deceased, to whom she gave their freedom,
after her death, as appears by said will, a copy whereof is
hereto annexed.
2. That Edelin, the defendant, was the executor of the last
will and testament of said deceased, and, as such, sold, in'the
year 1833, said petitioners to the other defendant Fenwick.
3. That the sale of the petitioners was made in Prince

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Fenwick v. Chapman.]

I

George's county aforesaid, where the deceased lived at the
time of her death, and where the petitioners were, and that,
from the time of deceased's death to the time of their sale,
they were permitted by the executor to go at large as free, and
that after, the purchase, made by Fenwick, he brought them
to the District of Columbia, where the present suit was instituted, and that, after the institution of the said suit, Fenwick
transferred his claim to the petitioners to the defendant Edelin, who repaid him his money, and appears to defend the suit.
4. That the deceased left real estate to an amount in value
more than sufficient to pay her debts, without the sale of the
negroes emancipated by the will, as will appear by her will
referred to, and made a part of this agreement, but not personal estate sufficient.
5. That the original copy of all the proceedings had in the
orphan's court of Prince George's county, relative to the settlement of deceased's estate, by her executors or administrators,
may be filed as a part of this case.
Under the aforegoing circumstances, the statement of facts
entered into by the counsel of the parties, and the law of
Maryland permitting the testamentary manumission of slaves
when it is not done "in prejudice of creditors -" the question
to be decided is, were the defendants manumitted in prejudice
of creditors ' And we will first consider it by inquiring what
effect the words in the will, "and after my debts and funeral
charges are paid,I devzse and bequeath asfollows," have to charge
the real estate of the testator with the payment of debts, in
the event of there not being a sufficiency of personal estate to
pay them, without the manumitted slaves. Without any construction of our own upon these words, the effect of them to
charge the real estate is settled by decisions which are uncontested and cannot be controverted.
In the case of Kidney v. Coussmaker, T. 1793, 1 Ves.
Jun. 267, it is said, "after paying debts," amounts to a
charge upon a real estate, for which very little is sufficient.
In Newman v. Johnson, E. 1682, 1 Vern. 45. "My debts
and legacies being first deducted, I devise all my real and personal estate to J. S." These words were said to amount to a
devise to sell for payment of debts.

SUPREME COURT
[Fenwick v. Chapman.]

A devise of land after payment of debts, is a charge on the
land, for, until debts paid, testator gives nothing. 3 Yes. 739.
In the case of Trott v. Vernon, 2 Vern. 708, the testator willed and devised, that his debts, legacies and funerals
should be paid in the first place, and then devised his land to
his sister for life, with remainder to her issue-remainder over,
and made the sister executrix; it was decreed that the lands
be charged with the debts. The lord chancellor said, it was
but natural to suppose, that all persons would provide for the
payment of their just debts, and, directing them to be paid in
the first place, imports, that before any devise by his will
should take place, his debts, &c., should be paid. See cases,
Ca. temp. Talb. 110; 3 P Wins 95, 1 Yes. Sen. 499, 2 John.
Ch. 614, for the same doctrine.
And in the case of the Earl of Godolphin v. Pennock,
2 Yes. Sen. 270, it was held that real estate was charged for
the payment of debts, under a general clause in a will, that
debts should be first paid and satisfied. Though cases both
before and after it can be found of a contrary character, yet that
such a general clause will charge real estate, has been always
held. In the case before us, the word "after" implies, as strongly as any word m the English language can do, that the payment of debts is a condition precedent to the absoluteness of any
entire devise in the will. A contrary doctrine seems to have
been held in Davis v. Gardiner, 2 P Wins 189, and it was so
held under the devise in that case, but the lord chancellor, in
his decision, admits that the real estatewould have beencharged
in a case, which is, indeed, the case under the will of Frances
Edelin. He says, "1I admit the portions might be charged on
the real estate, had the devise of the land been to the son in fee
absolutely, for without such construction, the devise would
have been void, and the son would have taken the land by descent. So that the will must, in such a case, have signified
nothing as to the land, unless it were to operate so as to charge
the land with the legacies, and to intimate that the heir was
not to take it until after the legacies paid." And there is no
difference, in the rule of construction, between legatees and
creditors.
But leaving out of view the wQrds in the will, "1and after

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Fenwick v. Chapman.]

my debts and funeral charges are paid, I devise and bequeath
as follows," and the authorities which have been cited to show
that they make a charge upon the real estate for the payment
of debts, would there not be a charge upon the real estate for
the payment of debts, if it be manifest from the will, that
it was the intention of the testatrix, that the manumitting
clause in her will was to take place, or to have effect at all
events' The general rule is, that the personal estate of a
testator shall, in all cases, be primarily applied in the discharge
of his personal debts or general legacy, unless he by express
words or manifest intention exempt it. Bac. Abridg. tit. Executor and Administrator, L. 2. The testator may exempt a
part of it, by making it a particular legacy, or the whole of it,
either by express words, or plain manifest intention, or by
giving it as a specific legacy. Adams v. Meyrick, 1 Eq.
Ab. 271, pl. 13, Bamfield v. Wyndham, Pre. in Ch. 101,
Wainwright v. Bendlowes, Pre. in Ch. 451, Amb. 581, Stapleton v. Colville, Ca. temp. Tal. 202, Phipps v. Annesley,
2 Atk. 58, Ancaster v. Mayo, 1 Bro. Ch. Ca. 454, Webb v.
Jones, 2 Bro. Ch. Ca. 60, Burton v. Knowlton. 3 Ves. 107,
Milnes v. Slater, 8 Yes. 305.
In Jones v. Selby, H. 1709, Pre. in Ch. 288, it is said,
"where the testator's intention clearly appears that a legacy
should be paid at all events, the real estate is made liable, on a
deficiency of personal assets." That such clear intention of the
testator will charge the real estate is also decided by authority
Was it clearly the intention of the testator that these defendants
should be free at all events, asfar as she bad power to make them
so, under the law of Maryland 'KWe think it was: and the conclusion is sustained by the words of the manumitting clause of
the will, by the provision which she makes of a place for their
residence, by the annuities which are bequeathed to some of
them, the manner in which they are made, and above all, we
say, by the natureofrmanumwsszon itself. After naming the slaves,
her language is, " I do hereby declare them free at and after my
death, and they shall have the right to live in, and occupy the back
room in the house and lot I gve and bequeath to my nephew Richard
James Edelin." And the devise of that house and lot to,Richard
James Edelin (the now plaintiff in error) is made with "this
proviso, that the negroes whwh are hereinafter mentioned to be free

472

SUPREME COURT.
[Fenwick v. Chapman.]

to live ?n the back room of said house." In confirmation, too, of
its having been the intention of the testatrix, that these negroes
were to be free at all events, it is worthy of remark, that the
effective words of manumission are in strict conformity with,
or a repetition in part of, these words in the statute of Maryland, "and such manumission of any slave or slaves may be made
to take effect at the death of the testator" But the testatrix, after
declaring these negroes to be free at and after her death, provides for them a residence, and the measure of her benevolence
being unexhausted, she bequeaths to some of them annuities
or pecuniary legacies, two of them as charges upon her estate,
and the rest she directs to be paid by her devisees and nephews,
in consideration of the bequests she had made to them. Can
it be supposed by any one, that such provisions would have
been made by the testatrix for these manumitted slaves, if it
had not been her intention that they should be free at her
death, at all events 'l We think no one will answer the inquiry
in the negative. But without such assistance from a will to
collect the intention of a testator, the nature of the thing
directed to be done may clearly show an intention that it is to be
done at all events, so as to make real estate liable for payment
of debts on a deficiency of personal assets. As, for instance,
when the thing to be done cannot be partially performed by the
executors, without defeating altogether the intention which
directs it, and the thing itself. Manumission, to take effect at
the death of a testator, is of that character. What is manumission q It is the giving of liberty to one who has been in
just servitude, with the power of acting, except as restrained
by law And when this liberty is given in absolute terms by
will, under the law of Maryland, it can only be defeated by the
person conferring it, "having done it in prejudice of creditors, or
by the slave standing in the other predicament of the law, of
being over forty-five years of age, and being unable to work and
gain a livelihood at the time the freedom given shall commence.
But what meaning shall be given to the words of the statute of Maryland, "that no manumission hereafter to be made
by last will and testament shall be effectual to give freedom to
any slave or slaves, if the same ' shall be in prejudice of creditors ?"' It is, that the manumittor must not be insolvent, that
a creditor of the testator shall not be deprived in reality of his

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Fenwick v. Chapman.]

debt, by the manumission. Any other construction in favour
of the creditor, from any right to personal assets for the payment of debts, of the executor's obligation so to apply the whole
of them, or in favour of the creditor's remedy at law to have
the personal assets applied to the payment of his debt, including manumitted slaves, when the other personal estate is not
enough to pay all debts, or against his being carried into a court
of equity, to make land liable for his debt, when the personal
assets have been exhausted, exclusive of manumitted slaves
any other construction than that which has been given to the
words "in prejudice of creditors "'would interfere with the
right of a testator to make his real estate chargeable with the
paymentof debts, when he manumits a slave, and would therefore confine effective manumissions to those cases in which a
testator leaves personal property enough, besides the manunutted slaves, for the payment of his debts, or when be dies
owing no debts. It would also, so far as the creditor's remedy at
law, or his not being carried into a court of equity are concerned,
be equivalent to a denial of a testator's right to make a specific
legacy of all his slaves, and to charge the payment of his debts
exclusively upon his land. The first is not in conformity with
the statute of Maryland, and the second, no one will deny to
be a testator's right. The statute is a privilege to all persons,
capable, in law, to make a valid will and testament, to grant
freedom to, and effect the manumission of any slave or slaves,
belonging to such person or persons, by will and testament,
and it may be made to take effect at the death of the testator
or testators, if the same shall not be " in prejudice of creditors."
Now, can the construction of that statute be, that the testator
is limited to the manumission of slaves, only in the event of his
having other personal property sufficient to pay debts, or to
deny to him a right, when he manumits, to do what he could
have done before the statute was passed, and what it must be
admitted he can still do-to make all of his slaves a specific
legacy, and to charge his land with the payment of his debts,
even though he may have, at the time of his death, no other
personal property than slaves. But in opposition to the protest
against anyinterference with a creditor's right to have a remedy
at law to enforce the payment of his debt out of the personal assets, and against his being carried into acourt of equity to make
VOL. IX.-3 K

SUPREME COURT.
[Fenwick v. Chapman.]

the land liable, when, by the manumission of slaves, the other
personal assets shall be insufficient to pay his debts, it is sufficient to say, that he holds this right in all cases at the will of
a testator, and in many cases subject to the dubious expression
of a testator's intention. The creditor maybe carried into a court
of equity, or voluntarily resort to it to obtain his debt, either
from the lands or the personalty when the testator leaves it
doubtful from what funds his debts are to be paid ,or when the
executor doubts, from the will, or the indebtment of his testator,
how assets are to be applied, orwhether theland is not chargeable
with the payment of debts, or whether the whole of the personal
,estate has been left as a specific legacy, or when the specific legatee of a part contends for the payment of debts out of
the real estate, and in many other instances, with this of
manumission added to them , when the personal property, besides, is insufficient to pay debts, on account of its reasonableness, and because the legislative intendment of the statute
of Maryland, allowing freedom to be given to slaves by will,
might be defrauded in the greater number of cases, if a creditor was not required to gointo equity to obtain his debt by a
sale of the testator's land.
This construction, too, of the words " in prejudice of creditors," and of a creditor's obligation to go into a court of equity,
is in exact conformity with that indisputable rule in equity,
that, where one claimant has more than one fund to resort to,
and another claimant only one, the first claimant shall resort
to that fund on which the second has no lien. Lenox v. Duke
of Athol, 2 Atk. 446, 1 Yes. 312, Mogg v. Hodges, 2 Yes.
53, Trimmer v. Bayne, 9 Yes. 209.
With this rule in view, see, by a course of short reasonings,
how absolute its application is to sustain the correctness of our
construction of the words in the statute, "in prejudice of creditors," and of a creditor's obligation to go into equity, in a case
of manumission, after other personal assets are insufficient to
pay debts.
Manumission is good by the act of Maryland, 1796, ch.
67, see. 13 , if it be not in prejudice of creditors. If ample
funds exist, and they are accessible, by the laws of Maryland,
to the creditors, they cannot be prejudiced.
Lands devised for the payment of debts, or which have be-

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Fenwick v. Chapman.]

come chargeable by implication, constitute a fund for the payment of debts, and an ample and plain remedy is admitted to
exist, in the laws of Maryland, so to apply them. How then
are creditors prejudiced, if the land liable, in a case of manumission, is sufficient to pay all of a testator's debts q
As to an executor's obligation to apply personal assets to the
payment of debts, not specifically bequeathed or manumitted,
an opposite construction to that which has been given to the
words "in prejudice of creditors," would be to make him master of the rule directing the application of assets, and in all
cases of manumission, would place it in the executor's power to
postpone or defeat the testator's intention in that regard.
The will is the executor's law, and he is no more than the testator's representative in all things lawful in the will. A specific legacy of all the personal property is a law to him. The
manumission of all the slaves of his testator, if he leaves no
other personal property to pay debts, and if it be made in a way
to charge real estate with the payment of all debts, is equally
his law. In a case of manumission and insufficiency of other
personal assets to pay debts, it is the duty of an executor to file
his bill against the creditors and all interested in the estate,
placing the manumitted slaves in the guardianship of the chancellor, and praying that the lands may be made liable to the
payment of debts, that equity may be done to all concerned,
according to the law of equity If an executor withholds freedom from manumitted slaves, the slaves may prefer their petition at law against the executor, or against any person holding
them under him, and they may recover their freedom by a
judgment at law, though the question raised by the plea is,
that the manumission has been made in prejudice of creditors.
And the slaves may do this upon the principle that a statute
never gives a right without providing a remedy; in the absence of such provision, contemplating that there is a legal
remedy to secure it. If an executor permits manumitted slaves
to go at large and free from the death of the testator, it is an
assent to the manumission, which he cannot recall any more
than he can, after assenting to a legacy, withdraw that assent.
Nor can he depnve the manumitted persons of their liberty
by the order of an orphan's court in Maryland for the sale of all
the personal property of his testator; upon a suggestion that,

SUPREME COURT
[Fenwick v. Chapman.]

besides the manumitted slaves, there is not enough personal
property to pay debts, that court having no junsdiction, by the
laws of Maryland, to try the question of freedom. And if, by
such order, they have been sold by the executor, they may sue
for their freedom in a suit at law, against the purchaser, or
against any other person holding them in slavery
The decision in the case from 2 Harr. and Gill 1, of Negro
George et al. v Corse's Administrator, was urged in argument in opposition to the opinions just expressed. In that
case the petitioners claimed their freedom in virtue of the will
and testament of their master James Corse. The manumitting
clause of the will gives freedom to some of the slaves at the
testator's death, and to others when they shall have arrived at particular ages, and the testator further says, if his
personal estate, exclusive of the negroes, should not be sufficient to discharge all his just debts, "then my will is, that
my executor or administrator, as the case may be, may sell so
much of my real estate as will pay my debts, so as to have my
negroes free, as before stated." The testator makes specific
devises of real estate in fee to his son, and devises and bequeaths to his brother U. Corse, the residue of his estate,
both real and personal, with the unexpired time of the negro
girls and boys, as designated in the first clause of the will, and
he appointed U. Corse executor.
The case was submitted to the jury in the Kent county
court, upon a statement of facts; and with instructions from the
judge, that if the jury believed the facts, they must find a verdict for the defendant. The verdict and judgment being
against petitioners, they appealed. In the statement of facts,
it is admitted that the personal estate of the testator, either
including or excluding his negroes, was not, at the time of the
execution of his vill, nor at any time after, sufficient to pay his
debts, but that his real estate, exclusive of the negroes, was
sufficient to pay all his just debts and funeral charges. Upon
the appeal, three judges decided to affirm the judgment upon
the ground, "that the question of the existence of a sufficiency
of real assets to pay the debts of the'testator, never can be tried
on an issue between the executor or administrator only, without ' prejudice' to creditors. That it was an issue to which
the creditors were no party, and to protect whose interest no-

JANUARY TERM 1835.

477

[Fenwick v. Chapman.]

body appears." And the court further says, the admissions
made by the appellee, he was unauthorized to make, and the
court was incompetent to pass judgment upon the facts they
contained, not being matters in issue in tne cause. The court
also say, "as far as relates to the personalty, the executor or
administrator is competent to act for all concerned, but in trying the facts whether there be assets by descent in the hands
of the heir, and what is the amount thereof, he has no interest,
either personally or in right of representation." With all respect for the judges deciding that cause, these opinions cannot
command our assent.
We think with Judge Cranch, and use his language in
regard to that decision, when he gave his opinion in the circuit
court in this case. The judge says, "when lands are devised
to the executor, to be sold for the payment of debts, as when
the lands are charged for the payment of the debts and a
power is given to the executor to sell them, the lands are as
much a fund in his hands for that purpose, as the goods and
chattels, and he represents the creditors in regard to the
lands, so far as their interests are concerned, as much as he
does in regard to the personal estate, and the creditors are as
much a party in the issue in respect of the lands, as they are
in respect of the goods and chattels. When he is charged
with the sale of his testator's lands, for payment of debts, he is
as much bound to inquire in regard to the lands, as he is in
regard to the personal estate. For it is his duty to execute the
whole of his testator's will, and, in such a case, the creditors
have as good a right to look to the land, through him, for the
payment of those debts, as they have to look to the goods and
chattels, through him." To these remarks we add, it is well
settled, that executors have power to sell the real estate, where
such power is given to them, or necessarily to be implied from
the produce beingto pass through their hands in the execution of
their office. Bentham v. Wiltshire, 4 Mad. 44, Jac. and Walk.
189. And in V Abr. 920, Hawker v. Buckland, 2 Vern. 106, it
is said, "ifaman devise lands to besold by one for paymentof his
debts and legacies, and make the same person his executor, the
money made by such person, upon the sale of the land, shall be
assets in his hands." Now if, in case of such a devise, the e.ecutor can sell, and does sell, bona fide, and by doing so can de-

SUPREME COURT.
[Fenwiek v, Chapman.]

prive the creditors from all claim upon the land, substituting the
price of it as assets--doing this without in any way consult.
ing the creditors, and in virtue of the devise for that purpose
why may not the executor admit, in a suit at law between
himself and another, that the land devised is sufficient to pay
dhbts, though such an admission may release a part of the
personalty, by the judgment of a court, from any future liability at law for the debts for his testatorl Why should it be,
that the value of lands so devised for the payment of debts,
can only be ascertained when creditors are a party to the proceedings, when they have no legal concern in fixing the price
for which the executor may sell the land, and when, moreover,
if it be necessary to obtain, as it is in some cases, an order of a
court of equity to sell the land, the creditors need not be made
parties to the application. Their claim is upon the assets
made by the sale of the land. It is true, creditors may, for
cause, enjoin the executor from selling, or, upon his application to sell, in a case where the intervention of a court of
equity is asked to permit or direct a sale, creditors may be allowed to make themselves parties but the difference between
these last positions; and the executor's right to sell, and having
sold, is all that there is between the action of the executor
being restrained by a court of equity, and where his power to
sell has not been restrained, and is executed.
Suppose in a case of a devise to sell land for the payment of
debts, as in the case of George v. Corse, that the administrator had admitted assets from the sale of the land, without
stating the amount, but sufficient to pay debts, and without
stating the amount of the debts due by the testator, could the
court, in the face of the admission, have conjectured it might
be in prejudice of creditors, and, upon such conjecture or apprehension, have given judgment that it was in prejudice of creditors. Or suppose the administrator had, in his admission, statedboth the amount of the assets and of debts, the former being
larger than the latter, would it not have given judgment, that
the manumission had not been made in prejudice of creditors,
and have done so upon the executor's admission 2 The court
could not, in such an issue, have given to the creditors any
more protection than they had by the administrator's admission,
it could not have possessed itself of the assets, or in any way

JANJARY TERM 1835.
[Fenwick v. Chapman.]

have directed the distribution of them. It was powerless to
call upon the executor for a schedule of debts, or upon the
creditors to make an exhibition of their claims. But it may be
said, the difference in the case supposed, and that which existed, is that in the first, the assets were in hand, and in the
other were to be made by a sale of the land. The difference
nakes nothing against the argument, for the value of the land
can be as well ascertained by proof, as it can be by the executor's sale, and when he admits the value to be sufficient to pay
,debts, he does, in truth, do no more than is done when he admits the existence of a sufficiency of personal assets, but unsold, to pay debts.
As between himself and another, his admission may surely
bind him in that other's favour, as well in regard to assets to
be made from land, as in regard to personal assets undisposed
of. In the latter case, there is as much a question of the sufficiency of assets, as there is in the case when assets are to be
made by the sale of land, and so far as creditors are concerned,
in a case of manumission, the reason for not trying the issue
between a petitioner and an executor, is as strong in an inquiry of a sufficiency of personal assets, as in one of real assets.
And the court, in the case under remark, only excludes an
inquiry into the value of the latter; and if it did not intend to
do so, then a manumitted slave can never show that the
manumission was not made in prejudice of creditors.
The court thought it was an issue to the prejudice of creditors, as they were no party to the proceeding, and to protect
whose interest no one appeared, and "thus the judgment of the
court, having once given effect to the manumission, on the
ground that effects in the hands of the heir should be applied
to the payment of the debts, the executor or administrator
is absolved from all responsibility, except as to the residue of
the personalty, and the creditors would be left to seek, through
a court of equity, real assets which perhaps never had existence." But the mistake is in stating the land devised to an
executor to be sold for the payment of debts to be assets in
the hands of the heir; and that the judgment between the then
petitioners and administrator, would have been conclusive
against creditors as well in equity as at law. The assets were
not legally in the hands of the heir; nor would the judgment

SUPREME COURT.
[Fenwick v. Chapman.]

have concluded the right of the creditors from showing, in
a proceeding in equity, to which the manumitted slaves, the executors and all persons interested had been made parties, that
the admissionof the executor had been made without any foundation in fact, or in fraud or mistake, and upon showing either,
in an entire reviewof the administration, a court of equity would
set aside the judgment at law, and decree that the manumission
had been made in prejudice of creditors, and subject the slaves
to the payment of debts, either by sale for life or for a term of
years; according as the one or the other mightbe requisite to pay
the creditors. Such a course would be in perfect harmony with
the statute allowing manumissions to be made by will. They
may be made to take effect at the death of the testator, but shall
not be effectual if done to the prejudice of creditors. Upon
whom does it lie, to show it to have been done in prejudice of
creditors
Surely upon the creditors: or the words of the
statute, cto take effect at the death of the testator," can never
be fulfilled in any case of manumission, if it can only take
effect after the manumitted slaves have shown it had not been
done in prejudice of creditors; or if, as a condition precedent
to effective manumission, the slaves must carry executors,
creditors and all interested in the real estate, into a court of
equity, to prove the manumission not to have been made in
prejudice of creditors.
But the case before us is distinguishable from that in Harris
and Gill in other particulars which make that case inapplicable.
The first difference is, that the record shows in this case,
there were no creditors of the testatrix, Frances Edelin, at the
time the suit was brought in the circuit court. The only sum
which could then be charged upon the estate was the right of
retaining; which the executor had, on account of his having
overpaid beyond assets. He then is the only creditor, by his
own admission, and when he admitted the sufficiency of real
estate to pay himself, there was an end of all inquiry as to
what was the value of the land. There was nothing due to
any one else: consequently, no one could be prejudiced. and
the words in the statute, "in prejudice of creditors," cannot be
construed to apply to any other than the testator's creditors at
the time of his death, and such as might become so for funeral
charges, not to such as the executor might make his creditors,

JANUARY TERM 1835.
[Fenwick v. Chapman.]

vir tute officii, and much less to defeat a manumission, in favour
of an executor, because he has carelessly, though bona fide,
paid debts beyond assets.
Upon the whole then, our opinions are. that, by the statute
of Maryland, 1796, oh. 67, see. 13, manuissions of slaves
by will and testament, may be made to take effect at the
death of the testator that the testator may devise or charge
his real estate with the payment of debts, to make the manumission effective, and not in prejudice of creditors: that the
right to freedom may be tried in a suit at law, against the
executor, at the instance of the manumitted slaves; and that
the executor may, in such suit, admit the existence of a sufficiency of real assets or real estate, to pay the debts of his
testator, that a judgment at law in favour of slaves manumitted by will, in a suit between them and an executor, upon his
admission of a sufficiency of real estate to pay creditors, may
be set aside in equity, if such admission was made without
foundation in fact, or in fraud or mistake, upon the creditors'
sho ivng either, in a proceeding in equity to which the manumitted slaves, the executors, and all persons interested have
been made parties-in which there may be a review of the
entire administration of the estate, of the conduct of the executor, and that of creditors in regard to the estate, and in
regard to the vigilance of the one in paying, and of the others
in pursuit of their debts.
That the words in this will, "and after my debts and funeral charges are paid, I devise and bequeath as follows,"
amount to a charge upon the real estate, for the payment of
debts.
That when a testator manumits his slaves by will and testament, and it clearly appears to have been his intention that
the manumission shall take place at all events; the manifest
intention, without express words, to charge the real estate, will
charge the real estate for the payment of debts; if there be not
personal assets enough, without the manumitted slaves, to pay
the debts of the testator.
That in such a case, the creditors of the testator must look
to the real estate for the payment of debts which may remain
unpaid after the personal assets, exclusive of the manumitted
slaves, have been exhausted, and that they must pursue their
VOL. ix.-3 L

SUPREME COURT.
[Fenwick v. Chapman.]

claims in equity, or according to the statutes of Maryland,
subjecting real estate to the payment of debts, to make their
debts out of the land.
That when an executor permits manumitted slaves to go at
large and free, under a manumission to take effect at the
death of the testator, he cannot recall such assent by his own
act nor can it be revoked under the order of an orphan's court
in Maryland, for the sale of all the personal estate of a testator;
that court not having jurisdiction of the question of manumission.
That in this case, it being admitted that the testatrix left
real estate to an amount in value more than sufficient to pay
her debts, without the sale of the negroes emancipated by
the will, the defendants in error are entitled to freedom.
The judgment of the circuit court, is therefore affirmed.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record, from the circuit court of the United States, for the District
of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, and
was argued by counsel, on consideration whereof, it is ordered
and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the said circuit court in this cause be, and the same is hereby affirmed
with costs.

