B. & 0. R. CO. v. U. S.
Argument for Appellants.

BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD CO. ET AL. V.
UNITED STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 133.

Argued December 7, 8, 1938.-Decided January 3, 1939.

Interstate carriers, at the Port of New York, in a competitive effort
to induce shippers to patronize their respective lines and so increase their line-haul traffic, furnished warehouse space and services, at less than cost to the carriers and at less than the rates
charged by private warehousemen. Held:
1. Ihat the Interstate Commerce Commission properly ordered
the carriers to cease furnishing such facilities below cost, upon the
grounds that such warehousing is "commercial" and not part of
the transportation, and the effect of furnishing it below cost, in
order to attract line-haul patronage, is to allow what amounts to
a rebate to those shippers who enjoy the below-cost warehousing
and to work unjust discrimination and unreasonable prejudice
against other shippers paying the published transportation rates,
in violation of §§ 2, 3, and 6 of the Interstate Commerce Act.
P. 520.
2. To this conclusion, the question whether the shipper pays
less than fair or market value is immaterial. P. 523.
3. Inclusion of such below-cost warehousing service in the carrier's tariff, in connection with storage-in-transit privileges, though
required by the Commission, does not make it a transportation
cost 'or save it from the condemnation of § 6 (7) of the Act. P.
525.
20 F. Supp. 273; id. 917, affirmed.

from a decree dismissing a bill to enjoin enforcement of an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission. The Interstate Commerce Commission, the
Warehousemen's Protective Committee, the American
Warehousemen's Association, the Boston Port Authority,
and the City of Boston intervened and prayed for dismissal of the bill.
APPEAL

Mr. Edwin H. Burgess, with whom Messrs. Alex H.
Elder, Thomas P. Healy, Walter J. Larrabee, Carleton

508

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Argument for Appellants.

305 U. S.

W. Meyer, Guernsey Orcutt, Douglas Swift, H. A. Taylor, Charles R. Webber, and M. B. Pierce were on the
brief, for appellants.
The order condemns railroad leases to shippers upon
the basic finding that the rentals reserved are less than
the cost of providing the property leased. Upon this
finding alone the Commission and the District Court hold
that such rentals are "concessions" to shippers from the
published tariff rates for road-haul transportation, in violation of §§ 2, 3, and 6 of the Act and "probably" in
violation of the Elkins Act. It is neither the duty nor
within the province of the Court to search the record to
determine whether additional essential findings might
have been made.
To make out an unlawful concession, receipt by the
shipper of more value than he pays back must be shown
by an express finding that the reasonable rental value of
the lease given to the shipper exceeded the rental he
actually paid.
Citing Lehigh Valley R. Co. v. United States, 243 U. S.
444, 446; Wight v. United States, 167 U. S. 512; Mitchell
Coal Co. v. PennsylvaniaR. Co., 230 U. S. 247, 260-265;
United States v. American Tin Plate Co., 301 U. S. 402;
New York, N. H. & H. R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce
Comm'n, 200 U. S. 361; National FireIns. Co. v. Thompson, 281 U. S. 331; Standard Oil Co. v. Southern Pacific
Co., 268 U. S. 146, 155; St. Louis & O'Fallon R. Co. v.
United States, 279 U. S. 461, 494; Atchison, T. & S. F.
Ry. Co. v. United States, 284 U. S. 248, 260; Great Northern Ry. Co. v. Weeks, 297 U. S. 135, 149; Donovan v.
Pennsylvania R. Co., 199 U. S. 279; Louisville & N. Ry.
Co. v. West Coast Naval Stores Co., 198 U. S. 483; Missouri-Pacific Ry. v. Nebraska, 164 U. S. 403; Davis v.
Southern Pacific Co., 235 F. 731, 737; Aron v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 80 F. 2d 100, cert. denied, 298 U. S. 658;
Cleveland, C. C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v. Hirsch, 204 F. 849;

B. & 0. R. CO. v. U. S.
507

Argument for Appellants.

Central of Georgia Ry. Co. v. Blount, 238 F. 292; Vandalia Ry. Co. v. United States, 226 F. 713; United States
v' Northern Pacific Ry. Co., 18 F. 2d 299, 304; Andrews
Bros. Co. v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 123 I. C. C. 733; Williams-Thompson Co. v. A. & W. P. R. Co., 126 I. C. C.
417; Johnson Lumber Co. v. Union Pacific R. Co., 219
I. C. C. 125.
Great hardship will result to the shippers and carriers
throughout the country from this rigid cost or investment standard as the test of lawful rentals.
There is nothing strange or unusual in the circumstance
that present fair value of leases may not equal "cost," if
calculated to include, as the Commission's reports seem to
contemplate, interest and depreciation on investment at
some unstated rates, and taxes. The Commission's reports in this case show that nost of the buildings in
which the carriers have leased space to shippers were
constructed in the years after the war and prior to the
depression when, as the Court will judicially notice, price
levels and all property values were materially higher than
have prevailed later and when the leases here in issue
were made.
Proceeding further upon the unsound cost theory, the
court below went so far as to hold that a loss due to leasing property at a rental below cost necessarily reduces,
by the amount of the loss, the carrier's "true net transportation return" from the tariff rates for transportation
charged the shipper, and that such loss, is automatically
and correspondingly a gain by the shipper. Simply
stated, the argument is that every railroad loss or reduction in "net transportation return" is somebody's concession or rebate. To state the proposition, we submit, is to
disclose its fallacy.
A carrier may dissipate its revenue derived from the
tariff rates on a given shipment in many ways. But
mere dissipation can not constitute a concession. Unless

510

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Argument for Appellants.

305 U. S.

the loss sustained by the carrier also has the effect directly or indirectly of giving the shipper something of value
over and above what he pays, there is, and in the very
nature of things can be, no reduction in the tariff rates
paid by the shipper, and therefore no concession from
the standpoint of the shipper. It is not what the carrier
retains as a net transportation return, but what the
shipper pays, in relation to what he gets from the carrier, that determines whether or not the shipper has paid
and borne the full tariff rate. It is not what the carrier
loses, but what the shipper gains, if anything, from the
lease, that controls.
The only finding that the Commission made as to appellants' storing of freight in their warehouses and piers
is likewise that the charges therefor are less than the cost
to the carrier of storing such freight. As to such storage
that finding is, for the same reasons, insufficient to establish a concession.
All of appellants' "in-transit services," consisting of
in-transit storage and the handling and insuring of goods
in connection therewith, are covered by tariffs, and,
under the Commission's express finding, must continue
so to be. Appellants' full compliance with such tariffs,
which is admitted, makes the existence of concessions in
connection with such "in-transit services" impossible.
The order as to appellants' leases, storage, and "intransit services" will deprive appellants of their liberty
and property in contravention of the Fifth Amendment.
The Commission has'full power, under the fair and
reasonable value standard urged by appellants, to correct any practices that may result in corteessions or discriminations.
Section 15a of the Act can not support the order.
Appellants have a legal right to make leases at fair
rental values and to store goods at the reasonable worth

B. & 0. R. CO. v. U. S.
507

Argument for Appellees.

of the storage, and no section of the Act is violated by so
doing.
Mr. J. Stanley Payne, with whom Solicitor General
Jackson, Assistant Attorney General Arnold, and Messrs.
Elmer B. Collins and Daniel W. Knowlton, Chief Counsel,
I. C. C., were on the brief, for the United States et al.,
appellees.
The Commission's findings establish that appellants in
their own competition for line-haul traffic cut warehousing charges and space rentals below their own costs and
below those of the competitive commercial warehousemen, without regard to "fair value."
Appellants' contention that the only basic finding was
that the warehousing charges are below cost, and that
the Commission did not find that these charges were
below fair value, is erroneous.
Competition for line-haul traffic was the only reason'
for the low warehousing charges.
The order, prescribing costs as the minimum, to correct violations of §§ 2, 3, and 6 of the Interstate Commerce Act, is fully supported by the New Haven case,
200 U. S. 361.
Appellants have no legal right to maintain commercial
warehousing charges that are below costs for the purpose of inducing the movement of competitive traffic over
their respective lines, where the effect is to transport the
property in interstate commerce at less than the published tariff rates. Warehouse Co. v. United States, 283
U. S. 501; New Haven Case, 200 U. S. 361; New York
Central R. Co. v. United States, 212 U. S. 481; United
States v. Union Stock Yard Co., 226 U. S. 286, 301-309.
The below-cost warehousing rates of appellants dissipate their revenues, cause unjust discrimination against
particular shippers and against the general body of shippers over their lines, in violation of § § 2, 3, and 6 and of

512

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Argument for Appellees.

305 U. S.

the purpose of the Act (§ 15a) to maintain adequate
national railway service.
Visconsin Railroad Comm'n
v. Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co., 257 U. S. 563, 585; New England Divisions Case, 261 U. S. 184, 189-190; DaytonGoose Creek Ry. Co. v. United States; 263 U. S. 456, 478;
Railroad Comm'n v. Southern Pacific Co., 264 U. S. 331,
341, 347; United States v. Louisiana, 290 U. S. 70; Florida v. United States, 292 U. S. 1, 7-8.
The Commission, though holding in its third report
that tariffs publishing the storage, handling, and insurance rates on freight stored under the transit privilege should be filed, affirmed its prior finding that
the services under these rates are not transportation
services.
The fact that appellants' below-cost rates for storage,
handling, and insurance on freight stored under the
transit privilege were published in appellants' tariffs did
not prevent them from causing the discriminations and
other violations found by the Commission.
Appellants' brief suggests that the order requires rates
that will yield a return on the investment in the operation of their warehouses, and depreciation. The Commission's reports find definitely that depreciation is a
part of the costs. As to return on investment, the order
does not require that appellants make warehousing and
storage rates and space rentals that will yield a profit. It
simply sets costs as the minimum. Where interest is
properly a part of the costs, it is clear it must be included,
but there is nothing in the report and order that rigidly
requires the original or historical cost of construction of
buildings to be used as the basis.
If appellants are in doubt as to whether in particular
instances interest on investment is to be deemed a profit,
or part of the costs, their proper procedure is to apply to
the Commission for a ruling. American Express Co. v.
Caldwell, 244 U. S. 617, 627.

B. & 0. R. CO. v. U. S.
Opinion of the Court.

507

It is obvious that the order does not attempt to require
what might be impossible, that appellants' warehouses
be operated at a profit.
The order for the future rightly corrects the discriminations and other violations of the Act by requi:ing removal of the means by which they were accomplished.
The order is a valid exercise of the Commission's regulatory power and therefore does not deprive appellants
of their liberty or property in contravention of the Fifth
Amendment.
Mr. John J. Hickey, with'whom Mr. Walter W. Ahrens
was on the brief, for the Warehousemen's Protective Committee; Mr. A. Lane Cricher for the American Warehousemen's Assn.; and Mr. Henry E. Foley, with whom
Messrs. Henry Parkman, Jr. and Lewis H. Weinstein
were on the brief, for the City of Boston and Boston Port
Authority, appellees.
MR.

JUSTICE REED delivered the opinion of the Court.

The Interstate Commerce Commission entered an order
on February 2, 1937, which directed certain carriers serving the Port of New York district to cease and desist on or
before April 5, 1937, from permitting shippers in interstate commerce over the carriers' lines from occupying
"space by lease or otherwise in warehouses, buildings or
on piers owned or controlled directly or indirectly by, or
affiliated with" the carriers involved "at rates and charges
which failed to compensate said" carriers "for the cost
of providing said space." The cease and desist order likewise directed the carriers to abstain from storing, handling
or insuring goods for shippers at less than cost. One
carrier was also directed to abstain from granting concessions to a warehouse company by means of leasing space
to the warehouse company at less than the cost of the
space to the carrier.
105537--39-33

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.

514

Opinion of the Court.

305 U.S.

As authorized by the Judicial Code,' a petition in
equity was filed in the United States District Court for
the Southern District of New York on March 9, 1937,
seeking a permanent injunction against the enforcement
of the order. A hearing was had by a three-judge court
pursuant to the provisions of the Urgent Deficiencies Appropriation Act of October 22, 1913, ' and a final order
dismissing the petition entered on March 23, 1938.1 An
appeal was taken directly to this Court as authorized by
the Urgent Deficiencies Act and the Judicial Code.'
The order appealed from was entered in an investigation into "practices of carriers affecting operating
revenues or expenses" 5 undertaken by the Interstate
Commerce Commission upon its own motion.' For convenience the general investigation was divided into different parts; the one in which the order under consideration
was entered is Part VI, "Warehousing and Storage of
Property by Carriers at the Port of New York." The
particular practices affected by the order were brought to
the attention of the Commission by complaints of warehouse operators in the New York district that warehouses
owned or controlled by the carriers were being operated
contrary to the Interstate Commerce Act. Full reports
of the investigation into the practices complained of were
made by the Commission on December 12, 1933,' and
June 8, 1936.8 The first report terminated in an admonition; the second report was followed by an order
I § 24, subsection 28.
2 38
3

Stat. 220.

For opinion below see Baltimore & 0. R. Co. v. United States
(I. C. C.), 20 F. Supp. 273.
.4Judicial Code, § 238.
5 Ex parte 104, 198 I. C. C. 134.
6 Interstate Commerce Act, Act of Feb. 4, 1887, c. 104, § 13 (2),
24 Stat. 383, as amended; 49 U. S. C. § 13 (2).
7198 I. C. C. 134.

8216 I. C. C. 291.

B. & 0. R. CO. v. U. S.
507

Opinion of the Court.

which never became effective. This order was superseded b ' the Commission's order of February 2, 1937, in
controversy here. This last order was entered by the
Commission upon reconsideration of its former reports.'
The Commission postponed its effective date until the injunction was brought and the lower court has entered
an order for a further stay pending the determination of
the appeal to this Court.
While the issues here are matters of law depending on
whether admitted facts support the order, it will be helpful for an understanding of the basis of our opinion to
have summarized the underlying facts found by the
lower court.
The railroads affected by the order are The Baltimore
& Ohio Railroad Company, The Central Railroad Company of New Jersey, The Delaware, Lackawanna & Western Railroad Company, Erie Railroad Company, Lehigh
Valley Railroad Company, The New York Central Railroad Company and The Pennsylvania Railroad Company.
All are subject to the Interstate Commerce Act. As common carriers they operate lines of railroad extending in
a generally westward direction from the Port of New
York district to various western points and compete each
with the others for domestic and foreign commerce to
and from the district. All united in the petition to enjoin the enforcement of the order. Their petition named
as defendant the United States of America. The Interstate Commerce Commission and the Warehousemen's
Protective Committee intervened. Later, orders were
entered allowing the intervention of the American Warehouseme'n's Association, Merchandise Division; the Boston Port Authority; and the City of Boston.
It was the practice of these carriers to furnish to shippers in the Port of New York area the storage, handling
and insurance which were under investigation. On ac9 220 I. C. C. 102.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

count of the high price and great demand for storage
space in the wholesale and retail business locations of
New York, dealers must store their surplus stocks in lowrent sections. To serve those merchants who do not
have their own warehouse facilities, numerous companies
not affiliated with the carriers are engaged in the commercial warehouse business in the immediate vicinity of
New York. Their business, like the-warehouse businesses
owned or operated by or affiliated with the carriers, not
only covers the storage of goods but its handling in and
out of cars and ships with all the incidental services connected therewith such as the issuance of warehouse receipts, inspection, cooperage, marking, and weighing.
Neither the complaints of the competitors of the carriers
in the warehousing business nor the terms of the Commission's order are directed at the involuntary storage of
goods incidental to transportation. This is the period
before or after shipment during which goods occupy cars
or floors without any charge above the strictly transportation rate. The warehousing practices complained of are
those in connection with accessorial services of the carriers,
accurately designated commercial warehousing. Examples of such services are the storage and other warehousing services furnished by the carriers or their affiliates
or subsidiaries, to enable shippers to hold and handle their
commodities beyond the time allowed by transportation
rates and in ways not required by rail movement itself.
All of the carriers "now generally store freight on piers
owned or leased by them and in warehouses operated by
affiliated or subsidiary companies." This business is
carried on in various ways. Some carriers lease space to
shippers for warehousing; others have aided in financing
structures on their property in which they lease space
from their own subsidiaries; and still others own directly
the buildings and lease them to subsidiaries for warehouse
operations. In all cases the carriers exercise sufficient

B. & 0. R. CO. v. U. S.
507

Opinion of the Court.

control over the warehouse facilities to make them subservient to the competitive needs of the carriers. Their
entrance into warehousing was brought about by a desire
to induce shippers to use particular rail facilities and as
first one and then the other of the carriers gained traffic
by their warehouse conveniences, it seemed necessary for
their competitors to equip themselves with similar advantages. Obviously a shipper, who can secure transportation, storage, handling and insurance together from a
carrier and its affiliates for an aggregate cost which is less
than the sum for which he can secure the various services
when purchased separately from carriers and non-affiliated
enterprises, will deal with those offering the best terms.
The storage largely determines the transportation route.
To get the rail transportation of large shippers, the
carriers sought them out and offered warehousing services
and space below the rates of private warehousemen and
below the cost to the carriers of the services rendered.
It was not only a contest between carriers and private
warehousemen but also between the carriers themselves.
Traffic departments of the railroads became solicitors for
warehousing business. Favored shippers were rented
spape by the carriers below compensatory figures. To
meet the requirements of this competition the various
Port of New York railroads added many new buildings in
recent years. This provided many millions of square feet
of space above the present needs of the district. 10
Another form of warehousing is found in a development of the storage-in-transit privilege at the Port of
New York. The carriers have rules and regulations governing this privilege which are published in separate tariffs filed with the Commission. These tariffs provide
that westbound freight in carloads "from points within
the free lighterage limits of New York Harbor may be
10 Those interested in the details will find them in 198 I. C. C. 134,

216 I. C. C. 291, 220 I. C. C. 102.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

stored in designated warehouses . . . within the Port
District, and, if reforwarded by rail within the period
specified in the tariffs . . . the through rate . . . from

point of origin in .New York Harbor to the final destination, will be applied."
As the through rate from shipside and from warehouse
is the same, if the shipment moves outbound from the
warehouse over the line of the inbound carrier, a shipper
using carrier warehouses has the advantage of port stoppage without extra transportation cost. This tariff arrangement does not affect charges for warehousing services in connection with the storage. The storage is commercial in character and involves large tonnages. While
the transportation tariffs permit varying periods of from
twelve to thirty-six months for the different commodities,
storage may be continued beyond this time limit at the
same rate. Prior to October 16, 1934, the tariffs permitted the removal of the commodities stored at any time
in any quantity and by any means of transportation without additional charge. On that date an additional
charge was provided for withdrawal by means other than
over the railroad which granted the storage. It will be
noted that in the movement from shipside to a western
destination an extra handling of the commodity is required if the warehouse is located directly on the waterfront and two extra handlings if the goods must first be
transported from the water-front to the warehouse and
then loaded into westbound cars. The cost of these extra
handlings is borne by the carrier. Insurance is furnished
at a level premium rate notwithstanding the variables of
the different exposures. All in all, it was determined,
and this conclusion is not in dispute, that the warehouse
services were performed "at rates and charges which fail
to compensate" the carriers for the cost.
Through arrangements permitting distributors to
avoid payment of tariff charges for storage, the Coin-

B. & 0. R. CO. v. U. S.
507

Opinion of the Court.

mission and the District Court found that the carriers permitted distributors of flour to get unjust and discriminatory charges.
After examining the details of cost of the various carriers for warehousing, both as storage-in-transit and ordinary storage, the conclusion of the Interstate Commerce Commission was that the commercial warehousing
was carried on at a substantial loss. The term "commercial warehousing" covers all warehousing practices except those strictly a part of the operation of rail transportation. This phase of the circumstances surrounding
the order may be summed up in the words of the 179th
finding of fact of the District Court, which reads as
follows:
"In its first report the Commission pointed out that
the matters and transactions referred to therein 'are
further illustrations of serious waste resulting from the
competition of railroads with each other for traffic.' The
extent of.this waste is indicated by statements contained
in appendices to the report, Appendix I of which shows
that the seven plaintiffs expended approximately
$35,000,000 in connection with the warehouse projects
considered in the report. In its second report the Commission found that up to the close of the year 1930, the
cold storage industry had placed 33,688,546 cubic feet of
refrigerated space on the market in the Port of New York
District, and that within a period of three years thereafter
warehouses affiliated with the Erie and Pennsylvania
placed an additional 8,500,000 cubic feet of refrigerated
space on the market, notwithstanding the fact that at the
time there was an unused capacity of at least 30 per cent
of the then-existing facilities; and further that as of the
close of the year 1930 the 43 warehouse companies operating merchandise warehouses, other than cold storage, in
the Port of New York District had placed 20,450,000
square feet of warehouse space on the market in that
district, and that within six years subsequent to January

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

1, 1929, the plaintiffs or their affiliates placed 6,185,000
square feet of new additional merchandise warehouse
space on the market, thereby, without commercial need,
increasing the capacity at least 25 per cent. Appendix II
of the first report shows that the loss incurred by plaintiffs
in connection with their warehouse projects during the
year 1931 was $1,260,441. Appendix III shows that the
loss per ton of freight stored in transit during 1931 ranged
from $1.28 to $6.18. These losses were added to by losses
incurred on freight stored on railroad piers, and in cars,
on insurance premiums, and from loans and advances.
In this connection the Commission found: 'Whether or
not initial advantages may have been realized at one time
or another, by individual carriers, the result is that a preferred group of large shippers are now the sole beneficiaries, and are so at the expense of the carriers and the
general shipping public.' And the Commission found
'that the respondents' warehousing and storage practices,
charges assessed, and allowances made in connection
therewith at the Port of New York district dissipate their
funds and revenues, are not in conformity with efficient
and economical management as contemplated by the Interstate Commerce Act, and are not in the public
interest.'"
The final order of the District Court, dismissing upon
these facts the petition for injunction to restrain the enforcement of the Commission's order, is attacked here
upon two grounds: First, that the rendition of services to
the public at less than cost is insufficient in law to establish that the carriers thereby make concessions and
through such concessions are guilty of the violation of
§ § 2, 3 and 6 of the Interstate Commerce Act; second,
that the carriers having published and observed tariffs
covering storage-in-transit cannot be guilty as to such
services of violations of the same three sections.
The carriers contend that the questions involved in
charges of violations of the Interstate Commerce Act by

B. & O. R. CO. v. U.S.
507

521

Opinion of the Court.

discrimination and rebate are to be judged by the reasonable worth of the services rendered instead of by the cost
to the carrier and that the charges for storage-in-transit
are not warehousing costs but transportation costs and
therefore it is no violation of the Act to furnish them at
less than cost to the carriers.
Warehousing Charge8.-The order, as entered by the
Commission.

and sustained by the lower court, was an

11 The pertinent language of the order follows: "It is ordered,
That the respondent carriers ... be, and they are hereby, notified
and required to cease and desist ... from permitting shippers ...
to occupy space by lease or otherwise in . . . buildings, ...
owned
or controlled ... by ... respondents ... at rates and charges
which fail to compensate said respondents for the cost of providing
space;
"It is further ordered, That the respondent carriers ... are hereby
... required to cease and desist ... from storing goods .. at
rates and charges which fail to compensate said respondents for the
cost of storing such goods or providing such storage space.
"It is further ordered, That the respondent carriers . . . are hereby
. .. required to cease and desist . . . from . . handling goods
* . * for shippers ... at rates and charges which fail to compensate

said respondents for the cost of said handling.
"It is further ordered, That the respondent carriers . . . (except
The Central Railroad Company of New Jersey) . . . are hereby ...
required to cease and desist . . . from insuring goods . . . at less

than the cost of providing such insurance.
"It is further ordered, That the respondent carriers above-named
be, and they are hereby, notified and required to cease and desist
from applying, by means of tariffs now on file with this Commission
on or before April 15, 1937, noncompensatory rates and charges, as
fully described in said reports, for the leasing of space, storage, handling and insurance of goods shipped over their lines in interstate
commerce which goods are stored, handled or insured in connection
with commercial warehousing service as fully defined and described in
said reports.
"And it is further ordered, That respondent, The Central Railroad
Company of New Jersey, be, and it is hereby, notified and required
to cease and desist, on or before April 15, 1937, and thereafter to

522

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

exercise by the Commission of its power to cause carriers
to cease and desist from practices which result in the receipt of less than the published tariffs for transportation
services, with the consequence that concessions were given
and preferences and advantages obtained by certain shippers. Its validity, except as it may be affected by consideration of the point that the practices were in accordance with tariffs madeand filed with the Commission, depends upon whether a finding that the warehousing services were rendered at a charge below cost to the carrier
authorized the order, without the further finding that the
reasonable value of the service was above the charge.
It was the view of the Commission and the lower court
that the finding of the Commission showed a violation of
§§ 2, 3 (1-) and 6 (7) of the Interstate Commerce Act.1"
abstain, from subsidizing and granting concessions to the Newark
Central Warehouse Company by means of noncompensatory rentals
collected or received for the spaced leased by the Newark Central
Warehouse Company from said respondent carrier, as fully described
of record and in said reports."
12Act of February 4, 1887, c. 104, 24 Stat. 379, as amended; 49
U. S. C. §§ 2, 3 (1), 6 (7).

"SEC. 2. If any common carrier subject to the provisions of this
chapter shall, directly or indirectly, by any special rate, rebate, drawback, or other device, charge, demand, collect, or receive from any
person or persons a greater or less compensation for any service
rendered or to be rendered, in the transportation of passengers or
property, subject to the provisions of this chapter, than it charges,
demands, collects, or receives from any other person or persons for
doing for him or them a like and contemporaneous service in the
transportation of a like kind of traffic under substantially similar
circumstances and conditions, such common carrier shall be deemed
guilty of unjust discrimination, which is prohibited and declared
to be unlawful.
"SEC. 3. (1) It shall be unlawful for any common carrier subject to
the provisions of this chapter to make or give any undue or unreasonable preference or advantage to any particular person, company, firm,
corporation, or locality, or any particular description of traffic, in

B. & 0. R. CO. v. U. S.
507

Opinion of the Court.

These sections-were enacted to assure the maintenance of.
rail transportation tariffs without rebate, discrimination
or preference. No findings appear, nor has our attention
been called to any evidence, which suggests the charges
were made to meet the competition of the commercial
warehousemen or were based upon the fair value of the
services rendered, regardless of competition. On the
contrary, it was the carriers' struggle to obtain line haul
traffic which led them into the price cutting warfare.
Charges for leases, storage, both in and out of the transit
privilege, handling and insurance were alike slashed *to
meet the competition.
Since the tariffs for rail haul are fixed for the various
points and freight classifications, every shipper must pay
that tariff for his transportation. As the shippers of the
Port of New York district can utilize, in many instances,
commercial storage and other warehousing services in addition to rail transportation, a saving on the non-transportation services obviously figures out the same as a
rebate on the transportation service. It is immaterial
that the shipper pays fair value or the market price for
the extra privilege he enjoys. Section 6 (7) of the Act
forbids the carrier to receive less than the published rates
any respect whatsoever, or to subject any particular person, company,
firm, corporation, or locality, or any particular description of traffic,
to any undue or unreasonable prejudice or disadvantage in any respect
whatsoever.
"Sac. 6. ...

(7) . . . nor shall any carrier charge or demand or

collect or receive a greater or less or different compensation for such
transportation of passengers or property, or for any service in connection therewith, between the points named in such tariffs than the
rates, fares, and charges which are specified in the tariff filed and in
effect at the time; nor shall any carrier refund or remit in any manner
or by any device any portion of the rates, fares, and charges so specified, nor extend to any shipper or person any privileges or facilities
in the transportation of passengers or property, except such as are
specified in such tariffs."

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

for transportation or to remit "by any device any portion
of the rates." When services, not necessary for transportation, are furnished below cost in an effort to acquire rail
transportation, as was done here, this provision is
violated.'
Since the carrier warehouse rates, as found by
the Court and Commission, are not open to all shippers
alike,' there is violation of §§ 2 and 3 (1) prohibiting
discrimination and unreasonable prejudice. The rail
transportation rates have charged against them the loss
occasioned by warehousing practices designed to attract a
volume of rail business.
This is not to say that for every situation it is necessary
that accessorial services should be rendered at not less
than cost, rather than market or fair value. The Commission pointed out it was not condemning bona fide
storage-in-transit for milling, manufacturing or processing, 5 but only the storage practices indulged in here to
get rail transportation. In other circumstances fair value
and market have been recognized as legitimate bases. 6
Where competitive practices such as existed here are
absent, reasonable or market value charges may well be
the test. The power, however, is in the Commission,
whenever it is of the opinion that any practice is unjust,
unreasonable, preferential or otherwise violative of the
Act, to prescribe what practice will be just, fair and reasonable. 7 As in Merchants Warehouse Co. v. United
States 18 the Commission "rightly secured the discontinu-

isCf. Wight v. United States, 167 U. S. 512; Seaboard Air Line v.
United States, 254 U. S.57, 63; New York, N. H. & H. R. Co. v.
Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 200 U. S. 361.
14198 I. C. C. at 197.
15 216 I. C. C. 291, 356.
16 Leases and Grants by Carriers to Shippers, 73 I. C. C. 671, 683,
684. Cf. Wharfage Charges at Atlantic and Gulf Ports, 157 I. C. C.
663, 692; Central of Georgia Ry. Co. v.Blount, 238 F. 292, 296.
17 § 15 (1), 41 Stat. 484; 49 U. S. C. § 15 (1).
18 283 U.S.501, 513.

B. & 0. R. CO. v. U. S.
507

Opinion of the Court.

ance of the discrimination by ordering the carriers to
cease employing the means by which it had been accomplished."
In-Transit Tariffs.-The carriers urge additional reasons why the order is invalid as to in-transit storage.
They find in the order as to it all the alleged vices of
the order with respect to leases and non-transit storage,
which arise from basing the minimum charges on cost
rather than market or fair value. They also contend
that since the charges for in-transit arrangements are
and must be published in tariffs, they are a part of transportation costs and therefore may be rendered at less than
cost."' Even if the in-transit warehousing is not technically transportation, say the carriers, its inclusion in
tariffs is sufficient to protect it from the attack that its
below-cost charges violate § 6. The carriers insist that
they do not remit by any device any portion of the specified tariff charges and that, as asserted violations of §§ 2
and 3 are predicated upon violations of § 6, none of the
findings as to in-transit charges supports the orders.
The Commission found that the in-transit warehousing was not a part of transportation. This finding is not
affected by the determination of the Commission that
the rates and charges should be published in the tariffs.
Indeed, in its report on the subject the Commission said
"What is here condemned is the fact that the respondents
have volntarily engaged in storage and warehousing services which are not within their common-carrier obligations and, by providing such services to shippers below
the cost of such services, reduce the cost to such shippers
for the transportation of their goods. The tariffs now on
19 Cleveland, C. C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v. Dettlebach, 239 U. S. 588;

St. Louis & San Francisco Ry. Co. v. Gill, 156 U. S. 649, 665, 666;
Atlantic Coast Line v. North Carolina Comm'n, 206 U. B. 1, 26-7;
Northern Pacific R. -Co. v. North Dakota, 236 U. S. 585, TUOO; Minneapolis & St. L. R. Co. v.. Minnesota, 186 U. S. 257, 268.

526

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

file are instruments which work violations of the act in
that,. through them, respondents hold themselves out to
perform commercial services (under the guise of performing transportation services) at rates and charges
which fail to compensate respondents for the cost of performing them, and thereby violate sections 2; 3, and 6
of the act." ,o
We accept this conclusion. 2 If the service is non-transportation, the fact that it is in a tariff does not save it
from the condemnation of § 6 (7). That section forbids
receiving a less compensation for transportation than the
tariff. The loss on in-transit warehousing, entered into
to secure the rail-haul, results in lowered receipts for the
transportation and in violation of the section. Some
shippers are not in a position to avail themselves of the
below-cost in-transit service. They must pay the full
transportation rate, without any offset from the warehousing. This discrimination between shippers is unlawful and the remedy applied by the order valid in these
circumstances.
Conclusion.-We do not discuss the suggestion that the
order deprives the carriers of their liberty and property contrary to the Fifth Amendment. If, as here held,
the order is a valid regulation of rates for warehousing
services which affect transportation tariffs, it cannot be
unconstitutional. Appellants' contention of unconstitutionality is predicated on the invalidity of the order under
the Interstate Commerce Act.
Affirmed.
220 I. C.C.at 103-104.
21 United States v. American Sheet & Tin Plate Co., 301 U. S. 402,
20

