HELVERING v. WINMILL.
Syllabus.

66

association represents all its members and stands in judgment for them, and even though the suit had a different
object than the instant one it is conclusive upon all the
members of the association with respect to all rights, questions, or facts therein determined.1 4
With respect to the second position, it appears from
the record that Trapp, in the suit in Nebraska, pleaded
that the association was estopped to deny its power to
issue the form of certificate in question, and. the opinion
of the Nebraska court, by reference to a case decided on
the same day, clearly indicates that the issue of estoppel
was considered and determined adversely to the plaintiff.
Fourth. Under our uniform holdings the court below
failed to give full faith and credit to the petitioner's
charter embodied in the statutes of Nebraska as interpreted by its highest court.'"
The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded
for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. WINMILL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 11.

Argued October 12, 1938.-Decided November 7, 1938.

1. Brokerage commissions paid or incurred in purchasing seeurities
during the taxable year by a taxpayer engaged in buying and
selling securities as a business, are not deductible as "compensation
for personal services," under § 23 (a), Revenue Act of 1932, but
are expenditures properly chargeable to capital account as constituting part of the cost of the securities purchased, deduction of
"Hartford Life Ins. Co. v. Ibs, supra, p. 673.
"Royal Arcanum v. Green, supra, pp. 540, 543, 546; Hartford
Life Ins. Co. v. Ibs, supra, p. 669; Hartford Life Ins. Co. v. Barber,
supra, p. 151; Modern Woodmen v. Mixer, supra, p. 551.

80

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

which, in case of loss from sales, is limited by §§ 111 and 23 (r)
of the Act; T. R. 77, Art. 282. P. 81.
2. Treasury regulations and interpretations long continued without
substantial change, applying to unamended or substantially reenacted statutes, are deemed to have received congressional approval and have the effect of law. P. 82.
3. The general provision of T. R. 77, Art. 121, that "Among the
items included in business expenses are . . . commissions," is
limited by the special provision of id. Art. 282, designating security
purchase commissions as a "part of the cost price of such securities." P. 83.
4. The addition of § 23 (r) of the Revenue Act of 1932 did not
indicate a purpose to alter or repeal the administrative interpretation under which brokers' commissions have uniformly been
construed as a part of the cost of the securities purchased, and
not as current business expenses. P. 84.
5. Congress has power to limit or deny deductions from gross income,
in the computation of income taxes. P. 84.
93 F. 2d 494, reversed.

CEaRTIoRAR, 303 U. S. 633, to review a judgment which
reversed a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals, 35
B. T. A. 804, sustaining an income tax assessment.
Mr. Arnold Raum, with whom Solicitor General Jackson, Assistant Attorney General Morris, and Messrs.
Sewall Key, J. Louis Monarch, Ellis N. Slack, and
Charles A. Horsky were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Thomas M. Wilkins for respondent.
MR. JusTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.
Respondent, in his 1932 income tax return, deducted
from his gross income brokerage commissions paid and
incurred in purchasing securities during that taxable year.
Section 23 (a) of the Revenue Act of 1932 allows as deductions "All the ordinary and necessary expenses paid
or incurred during the taxable year in carrying on any
trade or business, including a reasonable allowance for
salaries or other compensation for personal services actually rendered; . . ." Respondent contends that he was

HELVERING v. WINMILL.
79

Opinion of the Court.

engaged in. the "business" of buying and selling securities
and that the brokerage commissions amounted to "compensation for personal services actually rendered" within
the meaning of § 23 (a).
The Government insists that brokers' commissions in
security purchases are "expenditures,... properly chargeable to capital account" constituting "a part of the cost"
of such property and serving only to increase respondent's
loss from sales of stock under §§ 111 and 23 (r) which
control allowable losses on disposal of stocks.' Section
23 (r) allows losses on stock sales to be deducted only to
the extent of gains realized from such sales.' If respond'Revenue Act of 1932, c. 209, 47 Stat. 169, § 111. Determination
of Amount of Gain or Loss.
"(a) Computation of Gain or Loss.-Except as hereinafter provided
in this section, the gain from the sale or other disposition of property
shall be the excess of the amount realized therefrom over the adjusted
basis provided in section 113 (b), and the loss shall be the excess of
such basis over the amount realized.
"Sec. 113. Adjusted Basis for Determining Gain or Loss.
"(b) Adjusted Basis.-The adjusted basis for determining the gain
or loss from the sale or other disposition of property, whenever
acquired, shall be the basis determined under subsection (a), adjusted
as hereinafter provided.
"(1) General Rule.-Proper adjustment in respect of the property
shall in all cases be made"(A) for expenditures, receipts, losses, or other items, properly
chargeAble to capital account, including taxes and other carrying
charges on unimproved and unproductive real property, but no such
adjustment shall be made for taxes or other carrying charges for
which deductions have been taken by the taxpayer 'in determining
net income for the taxable year or prior taxable years; . .
Revenue.Act of 1932, c. 209, 47 Stat. 169.
"Sec. 23. Deductions from Gross Income. In computing net income
there shall be allowed as deductions:
"(r) Limitation on 'Stock Losses.
"(1) Losses from sales or exchanges of stocks and bonds (as defined
in subsection (t) of this section) which are not capital assets (as
105537°-39--39

6

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

ent was engaged in the "business" of buying and selling
securities, and the brokers' commissions were not a "part
of the cost" of the securities purchased, but were ordinary
business expenses, as defined in § 23 (a), respondent
was justified in deducting the brokers' commissions from
his gross income for the taxable year. "However, if these
commissions represent a part of the cost of the securities,
respondent's right to deduct is limited by § 23 (r).
The Commissioner refused to permit the deductions
beyond the extent of stock losses. His action was affirmed
by the Board of Tax Appeals.' The Court of Appeals
held the commissions deductible if respondent was engaged in the business of buying and selling securities,
and remanded for a finding as to the nature of his
business.4
Article 282, Treasury Regulation 77, issued under the
1932 Act, provides that "Commissions paid in purchasing
securities are a part of the cost price of such securities."
If this regulation governs, the respondent's contention
cannot be sustained.
Regulations promulgated under the 1916 income tax
law treated commissions in security purchases as a part
of the securities' cost and not as ordinary expense deductions.' This interpretation has consistently reappeared in
all regulations under succeeding tax statutes.' In the
period since 1916 statutes have from time to time altered
allowable deductions, but it is significant that Congress
defined in section 101) shall be allowed only to the extent of the gains
from such sales or exchanges (including gains which may be derived
by a taxpayer from the retirement of his own obligations)."
'35 B. T. A. 804.
'93 F. 2d 494.
'See, Art. 8, Paragraph 108, T. R. 33 (Revised 1918).
'Art. 293 of T. R. 45 (1918), 62 (1921); Art. 292 of T. R. 65
(1924), 69 (1926); Art. 282 of T. R. 74 (1928), 77 (1932); Art. 24-2
of T.R.86 (1934), 94 (1936).

HELVERING v. WINMILL.
Opinion of the Court.

79

substantially retained the original taxing provisions on
which these regulations have rested.
Treasury regulations and interpretations long continued without substantial change, applying to unamended or substantially reinacted statutes, are deemed
to have received congressional approval and have the
effect of law.'
There has been tacit, if not express, judicial approval
for the administrative treatment of commissions as an
element of the cost of securities. In Hutton v. Commissioner, 39 F. 2d 459, 460, the Court of Appeals recognized
that" It has been a settled rule of the Treasury Department that commissions paid in purchasing securities are
a capital expenditure as part of the cost price of the
securities."
In recognition of this administrative regulation, it has
been said here that ". . commissions [paid for marketing bonds] do not differ from brokerage commissions paid
upon the purchase or sale of property. The regulations
have consistently treated such commissions, not as items
of current expense, but as additions to the cost of property or deductions from the proceeds of sale, in arriving
at net capital profit or loss for purposes of computing the
tax."

8

Respondent points to an apparent inconsistency between the general provision in Treasury Regulation 77,
Article 121, that "Among the items included in business
expenses are . . . commissions," and Article 282 which
specifically and particularly declares that "Commissions
paid in purchasing securities are a part of the cost price
of such securities." Special provisions limit the application of those of a broad and general nature relating to
the same subject. The special designation of security
' United States v. Dakota-Montana Oil Co., 288 U. S. 459, 466;
Old Mission Co. v. Helvering, 293 U. 8: 289, 293, 294.
8
Helvering v. Union Pacific R. Co., 293 U. S. 282, 286.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

purchase commissions as a "part of the cost price of such
securities" contained in Article 282 evinces the clear intent to withdraw that special type of commission from
the general classification of Article 121.
Nor can it be inferred that the addition of § 23 (r) to
the 1932 Act indicated any congressional purpose to alter
or repeal the long existing administrative interpretation
of non-deductible capital expenditures under which
brokers' purchase commissions have been uniformly considered as a part of the cost of securities and not as current business expenses. This new statutory restriction of
the allowance for losses from sales of stock bears no such
relationship to the definition of cost price of securities as
to lead to the conclusion that Congress intended to overthrow and abandon a settled practice of determining the
elements of cost.
The brokers' purchase commissions here constituted a
part of the acquisition cost of the securities involved, and
are not allowable to the taxpayer as a deduction from
gross income under § 23 (a) of the Revenue Act of 1932.
Congress, in the exercise of its power to deny or limit deductions from gross income, 10 has--by § 23 (r)-limited
this taxpayer's allowable deduction. He has a right to
a deduction "only to the extent of . . . gains from . . .
sales or exchanges" of stocks and bonds as therein provided. The fact-if it be a fact-that respondent was
engaged in the business of buying and selling securities
does not entitle him to take a deduction contrary to this
provision.
The cause is reversed and remanded to the Court of
Appeals for action in harmony with this opinion.
Reversed.
'Similarly, if the specific provisions of Article 282 are valid and
have the present effect of law, respondent's contention that the commissions are uncompensated losses within the meaning of the general provisions of § 23 (e) (1) of the 1932 Act is unavailing.
"See, Helvering v. Independent Life Ins. Co., 292 U. S. 371, 381.

