UNITED STATES v. POWERS.
Statement of the Case.
UNITED STATES v. POWERS

E

AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 102. Argued November 18, 1938.-Decided January 9, 1939.
1. The Treaty of May 7, 1868, between the United States and the
Crow Indians, which established their reservation and contemplated
settlement in severalty and farming by individual Indians, operated
by implication to reserve the waters within the Reservation for the
equal benefit of tribal members. Winters v. United States, 207
U. S. 564. Pp. 528-532.
2. Allottees and their grantees acquired the right to use .some portion of the tribal waters essential for cultivation. Id.
Subsequent Acts, cited in the opinion, do not deny to allottees
participation in the use of waters essential to farming and home
making. If possible, legislation subsequent to the Treaty must be
interpreted in harmony with its plain purposes.
3. The General Allotment Act of 1887 recognizes equal' rights in
distribution of water among Indians resident on reservations, and
authorizes the Secretary of the Interior by regulations to secure
just and equal distribution. P. 533.
4. Adoption by the Secretary of the Interior of plans for irrigation
projects to serve certain lands on the Crow Indian Reservation
did not imply a purpose to exclude all other land from participation in essential water and thereby destroy the equal interest
granted by the Treaty. P. 533.
Subsequent allotments for farming followed by patents negative any such notion.
94 F. 2d 783, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, post, p. 581, to review a decree which affirmed a decree of the District Court, 16 F. Supp. 155,
dismissing a bill by which the United States sought to
enjoin the owners of certain tracts of land in the Crow
Indian Reservation, Indian allotments which had been
duly sold in fee, from using or diverting any water from
two streams on the Reservation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

Mr. Charles W. Leaphart, with whom Solicitor General
Jackson and Assistant Attorney General McFarlandwere
on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. T. H. Burke for respondents.
MR. Jsrmc. McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
By this proceeding (begun in 1934) the United States
seek to prevent further taking of water from certain nonnavigable streams within the Crow Indian Reservation.
This water is essential to the cultivation of respondents'.
lands allotted more than twenty years ago to members
of the tribe and presently held under properly acquired
fee simple titles. The prayer of the bill is for a permanent injunction against "maintaining or using said
dams aid ditches, as aforesaid, and from diverting by
means of said dams and ditches or in any other manner
any of the waters from Lodge Grass Creek or Little Big
Horn River and their tributaries; . .."
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals dismissing
the-bill must be affirmed.
By Treaty of May 7, 1868, 15 Stat. 649, 650-651, the
United States set aside a large tract of arid land now
within the State of Montana as a Reservation for the
"absolute and undisturbed use and occupation" of Crow
Indians, and they undertook to make their permanent
homes thereon. It provides that whenever an individual
Indian desires "to commence farming" he may select land,
under stated conditions, which thereupon shall "cease
to be held in common, but the same may be occupied and
held in the exclusive possession of the person selecting it,
and of his family, so long as he or they may continue
to cultivate it." Also"The President may at any time order a survey of the
reservation, and, when so surveyed, Congress shall pro-

UNITED STATES v. POWERS.
527

Opinion of the Court.

vide for protecting the rights of settlers in their improvements, and may fix the character of the title held by
each.... When the head of a family or lodge shall have
selected lands and received his certificate as above directed, and the agent shall be satisfied that he intends
in good faith to commence cultivating the soil for a living, he shall be entitled to receive seeds and agricultural
implements for the first year in value one hundred dollars, and for each succeeding year he shall continue to
farm, for a period of three years more, he shall be entitled to receive seeds and implements as aforesaid in
value twenty-five dollars per annum."
The Treaty contains no definite provision concerning
apportionment or use of waters. Although the lands are
arid a considerable area is susceptible of cultivation under
irrigation.
The Act of Congress approved April 11, 1882, ch. 74,
22 Stat. 42, 43, refers to "an agreement for the sale to
the United States [by the Crows] of a portioa of their
said reservation, and for their settlement upon lands in
severalty," etc. In return the United States agreed to
survey the remaining lands and divide them among members of the tribe; also " 'to issue patents to us respectively,
therefor, so soon as the necessary laws are passed by
Congress.' " Section 2"That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby,
authorized to cause to be surveyed a sufficient quantity of
land on the Crow Reservation to secure the settlement in
severalty of said Indians as provided in said agreement,
and upon the completion of said survey he shall cause
allotments of land to be made to each and all of the
Indians of said Crow tribe in quantity and character as
mentioned and set forth in the agreement above named,
and upon the approval of said allotments by the Secretary of the Interior he shall cause patents to issue to each
and every allottee for the lands so allotted, with the same
105537°-39-34

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

considerations, restrictions, and limitations mentioned
therein as are provided in said agreement."
The Act of February 8, 1887, ch. 119, 24 Stat. 388,
389-390, provides for allotments in severalty to Indians
upon any reservation created for their use whenever in
the President's opinion any part is advantageous for agricultural and grazing purposes. And it directs that after
allotments are approved the Secretary of the Interior shall
issue patents declaring the United States will hold the
land for twenty-five years in trust and thereafter "will
convey the same by patent to said Indian, or his heirs as
aforesaid, in fee, discharged of said trust and free of all
charge or incumbrance whatsoever.. ." Section 7"That in cases where the use of water for irrigation is
necessary to render the lands within any Indian reservation available for agricultural purposes, the Secretary of
the Interior be, and he is hereby, authorized to prescribe
such rules and regulations as he may deem necessary to
secure a just and equal distribution thereof among the
Indians residing upon any such reservations; and no other
appropriation or grant of water by any riparian proprietor
shall be authorized or permitted to the damage of any
other riparian proprietor."
The Act of March 3, 1891, ch. 543, 26 Stat. 989, 1040,
mentions another conveyance by the Crows to the United
States and appropriates $200,000 to be expended under
direction of the Secretary of the Interior for irrigation in
the valleys of the Big Horn and Little Big Horn Rivers
and on Pryor Creek, within the diminished Reservation.
The Act of May 8, 1906, ch. 2348, 34 Stat. 182, 183,
authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to issue to Indian
allottees patents in fee simple "and thereafter all restrictions as to sale, incumbrance, or taxation of said land shall
be removed.. ." Also"Hereafter when an allotment of land is made to any
Indian, and any such Indian dies before the expiration
of the trust period, said allotment shall be cancelled and

UNITED STATES v. POWERS.
527

Opinion of the Court.

the land shall revert to the United States, and the Secretary of the Interior shall ascertain the legal heirs of such
Indian, and shall cause to be issued to said heirs and in
their names, a patent in fee simple for said land, or he
may cause the land to be sold as provided by law and
issue a patent therefor to the purchaser or purchasers,
and pay the net proceeds to the heirs, or. their legal representatives, of such deceased Indian. The action of the
Secretary of the Interior in determining the legal heirs
of any deceased Indian, as provided herein, shall in all
respects be conclusive and final."
Commencing in 1901 allotments in severalty of tracts
abutting or adjacent to the Little Big Horn River or
Lodge' Grass Creek were made to respondents' Indian
predecessors. These culminated in the issuance of fee
simple patents as provided by Act of May 8, 1906.1 Each
patent undertook to convey the land "together with all the
rights, privileges, immunities and appurtenances, of
whatsoever nature, thereunto belonging," but contained
no express provision concerning water rights. Respondents have succeeded to the interest of the original allottees either by mesne conveyances or by purchase at government sales of deceased allottees' lands.
The Little Big Horn River and its affluent, Lodge
Grass Creek, under normal conditions may afford sufficient water to irrigate twenty thousand acres within the
Reservation. Through private ditches respondents and
their predecessors have long conveyed water from these
streams in order to irrigate their lands and thus render
them susceptible of cultivation. It is not suggested that
water therefor can be obtained from any other source.
Petitioners maintainThat prior to 1885, the United States commenced
construction of irrigation works intended to divert
'Ch. 2348, 34 Stat. 182.

532

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

waters from the streams in question. These gradually developed into a system normally capable of
carrying sufficient water to irrigate 20,000 acres.2
None of respondents' lands lie within the armbit of
these projects; and neither the original allotments
nor the patents specifically granted the use of any
water.
That Congress gave the Secretary of the Interior
control of Reservation waters. Irrigation projects
initiated under his authority prior to allotments of
respondents' lands sufficed to dedicate and reserve
sufficient water for full utilization of these piojects;
rights acquired by the allottees were taken subject
to this reservation.
That because of drought during 1931 to 1934, and
respondents' diversion of waters upstream from the
projects so initiated, the available water became insufficient properly to irrigate some 8,000 acres lying
therein and under cultivation. Accordingly the injunction should be granted; all waters from the two
streams had been devoted to those and similarly situated lands so far as necessary for farming operations.
Respondents maintain that under the Treaty of 1868
waters within the Reservation were reserved for the equal
benefit of tribal members (Winters v. United States, 207
U. S. 564) and that when allotments of land were duly
made for exclusive use and thereafter conveyed in fee, the
right to use some portion of tribal waters essential for
cultivation passed to the owners.
The respondents' claim to the extent stated is well
founded.
2 See Act of March 1, 1899, ch. 324, 30 Stat. 924; Act of May 31,
1900, ch. 598, 31 Stat. 221; Act of April 27, 1904, ch. 1624, 33 Stat.
352.

UNITED STATES v. POWERS.
527

Opinion of the Court.

Manifestly the Treaty of 1868 contemplated ultimate
settlement by individual Indians upon designated tracts
where they could make homes with exclusive right of cultivation for their support and with expectation of ultimate complete ownership. Without water productive
cultivation has always been impossible.
We can find nothing in the statutes after 1868 adequate
to show Congressional intent to permit allottees to be
denied participation in the use of waters essential to
farming and home making. If possible, legislation subsequent to. the Treaty must be interpreted in harmony
with its plain purposes.
The Secretary of the Interior had authority (Act 1887)
to prescribe rules and regulations deemed necessary to
secure just and equal distribution of .waters. It does not
appear that he ever undertook so to do. Certainly he
could not affirmatively authorize unjust and unequal distribution. The statute itself clearly indicates Congressional recognition of equal rights among resident Indians.
Adoption by the Secretary of plans for irrigation projects to serve certain lands was not enough to indicate a
purpose to exclude all other land from participation in
essential water and thereby destroy the equal interest
guaranteed by the Treaty. Subsequent allotments for
farming followed by patents negative any such notion.
The patented lands had no value for agriculture without
water; they were selected for homes and individual
farming.
The petitioners have shown no right to the injunction
asked. We do not consider the extent or precise nature
of respondents' rights in the waters. The present proceeding is not properly framed to that end.
Affirmed.
The challenged decree must be
MR. JUSTICE REED

decision of this case.

took no part in the consideration or

