WAIALUA CO. v. CHRISTIAN.
Syllabus.

85

Congressional enactments in pursuance of constitutional authority are the supreme law of the land. Section 500 is a valid exercise of congressional power."0 "The
laws of the United States are laws in the Several States,
and just as much binding on the citizens and courts
thereof as the State laws are." ""
No court has rendered a judgment or decree in favor
of the incompetent veterap and against the Government,
in which the court as a part of its decree determined and
allowed a reasonable fee for the attorney of the veteran.
In the absence of such a judgment and decree an attorney's fee of more than $10 is contrary to the controlling
congressional enactment. The judgment below being for
more than this amount is unauthorized and the cause is
Reversed.

WAIALUA AGRICULTURAL CO. v. CHRISTIAN
ET AL.*
CERTIORARI TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 15. Argued October 13, 14, 1938.-Decided November 7, 1938.
1. The rule that a federal court will pay deference to decisions of
territorial courts on matters of local concern is applicable to
decisions of the Supreme Court of the Territory of Hawaii. P. 107.
2. This rule applies where the questions decided concern the interpretation and validity of contracts of incompetent persons, and
the rights of a grantee in respect of improvements on the land
after the incompetent's deed has been canceled. P. 108.
" Margolin v. United States, supra; Calhoun v. Massie, 253 U. S.
170.
" Claflin v. Houseman, 93 U. S. 130, 136.
*Together with No. 17, Christian v. Waialua Agricultural Co., also
on writ of certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit.

92

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Statement of the Case.

305 U. S.

3. Although the 34th section of the Judiciary Act is not applicable
to the territories, the reasons supporting the policy of having the
state courts declare the state law likewise support the view that the
territorial courts should be free to declare the law of the territories.
P. 109.

4. The power of the Circuit Court of Appeals upon review to reverse
rulings of the Supreme Court of Hawaii on the law or the facts
should be exercised only in cases of manifest error. P. 109.
5. Decisions of the Supreme Court of Hawaii which are in conformity
with the Constitution and applicable statutes of the United States,
and are not manifestly erroneous in their statement or application
of governing principles, are to be accepted as stating the law of
the Territory. P. 109.
6. In a suit in equity involving questions as to the validity and
construction of particular contracts of an incompetent personviz., a deed, a lease, and a contract for maintenance,-and a question as to rights in improvements made upon the land by a
grantee under a deed subsequently canceled, the Supreme Court
of Hawaii ruled that the contracts of an incompetent person made
prior to an adjudication of incompetency are voidable, and that
in determining whether relief should be granted the equities on
both sides should be weighed. The court concluded upon the facts
of this case (a) that the deed should be canceled, but that the
lease and the contract for maintenance should be sustained; (b)
that the contract for maintenance should be construed as assigning
rents and profits accruing to the incompetent not only during the
term of an existing lease, but thereafter as well; (c) that an assignee of the rents and profits had made a valid transfer of them
by deed; and (d) that, in respect of the improvements on the
land, these should be reserved to the grantee and rights of use as
between the grantor and grantee adjusted as provided in the
decree.
Held, the Supreme Court of Hawaii's decisions of the questions
involved were not manifestly erroneous, and should not have been
disturbed on review by the Circuit Court of Appeals. Pp. 109-111.
93 F. 2d 603; 94 id. 806, reversed.

CRoss writs of certiorari, 304 U. S. 553, to review the reversal of a decree of the Supreme Court of Hawaii in a suit
brought by the guardian of an incompetent person to set
aside certain contracts and to recover the rental value of
certain lands of the incompetent.

WAIALUA CO. v. CHRISTIAN.
91

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. M. C. Sloss, with whom Messrs. Charles M. Hite
and E. D. Turner, Jr. for Christian et al.
Mr. Herman Phleger, with whom Mr. Maurice E.
Harrison was on the brief, for the Waialua Agricultural
Co.
MR. JUSTICE

REED

delivered the opinion of the Court.

These cases concern the validity of a lease, a contract
for maintenance, and a deed conveying or assigning
rights of Eliza R. P. Christian, an incompetent, to a onethird undivided interest in land on the Island of Oahu,
Territory of Hawaii.
The Supreme Court of the Territory of Hawaii in two
opinions on separate appeals set aside the deed and
refused to set aside the contract or lease. A decree was
entered directing the reconveyance to the incompetent
of her previously conveyed interest in the tract with
adjustments for improvements.' The Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit refused to review the first
decree on the ground that no final order had been
entered. 2 Appeals were taken from the second decree by
the incompetent and, after severance, by the Waialua
Agricultural Company, Limited. The Circuit Court of
Appeals reversed the Supreme Court of Hawaii and
remanded the cause to that court with directions to
remand to the trial court, with instructions to grant relief
against the deed upon restitution of the consideration
and to take further proceedings in respect to the issues
concerning the validity of the lease and contract.8 The
petition for rehearing was denied. 94 F. 2d 806.
Certiorari and cross-certiorari were sought by the respective parties and granted by this Court to review the ques'Christian v. Waialua Agricultural Co., 31 Haw. 817; 33 Haw. 34.
2Waialua
Agricultural Co. v. Christian, 52 F. 2d 847.
'Christian v. Waialua Agricultural Co., 93 F. 2d 603.

94

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

tions presented because of the action of the Circuit Court
of Appeals in reversing conclusions of the Supreme Court
of Hawaii as to applicable principles of law.4
The incompetent, Mrs. Christian, was born at Makaha
in the Hawaiian Islands on December 30, 1885. She was
brought to Honolulu by her father in the early 1890's.
By 1901 'they had gone to live with Mrs. Annie Holt Kentwell, a cousin and one of the nine children of Owen J.
Holt. Except for short periods when the incompetent was
in boarding school, they lived with her continuously
thereafter. The incompetent's grandfather, R. W. Holt,
had died in 1862, leaving a will which devised an equal
undivided portion of the real estate involved in these
cases to each of his three sons for life and then to the heirs
of each in fee simple. One of these sons was John
Dominis Holt, the father of the incompetent. The father
was living at the time of the execution of the documents
here questioned, dying in 1922.
That portion of the grandfather's estate involved in
these cases consisted of approximately fourteen thousand
acres of land. At the time of the first transactions here
considered, one of the sons, Owen J. Holt, had died leaving nine children, each entitled to a one-twenty-seventh
interest in fee simple in the tracts. A second son, James
R. Holt, was living but had conveyed his life estate to his
son, James Lawrence Holt. This son had also purchased
the contingent remainder of his brother, Robert Holt, and
the life estate of the incompetent's father, John Dominis
Holt. Subject to whatever risk there was that his father,
James R. Holt, born in 1838, would have other children
after 1905, James Lawrence Holt was, in the year last
mentioned, the owner of a one-third interest in the property, plus the life estate of his uncle, John Dominis Holt,
in -another third. James Lawrence Holt had transferred
'Altos v. Alonso Hermanos, 300 U. S. 429.

WAIALUA CO. v. ChtRISTIAN.
91

Opinion of the Court.

all these interests to John F. Colburn as Trustee. The
property in 1905 was "wholly uncultivated and covered
with noxious weeds, including such well-known pests as
lantana and klu. The taxes at that time were four years
in arrears."
On March 17, 1905, the administrator de bonis non
with-the-will-annexed of R. W. Holt, several of the heirs
of his son, Owen J. Holt, and the Hawaiian Realty and
Maturity Company, Limited, executed a lease to the
Waialua Agricultural Company, Limited, for twenty-five
years at an annual rental of $9,000. The administrator
was treated in this lease as having title to two-thirds of
the whole. The owners of the contingent remainders, one
of whom was the incompetent, joined with the lessors in
covenanting that the lessee while paying said rent "shall
peaceably and quietly hold and enjoy the use and possession of said demised premises . . ."
On the 31st day of August, 1906, the incompetent
entered into a contract for maintenance with her cousin,
Annie Holt Kentwell. This instrument evidenced an
assignment of her title and interest in and to any and
all rents, issues and profits due or payable under the
above lease or "by virtue of being the only child of John
Dominis Holt, the elder, and devisee under the will of
R. W. Holt, deceased, together with all and every her
right to demand, receive, collect and receipt for all such
rents, issues, and profits from whomsoever due during
the term of" her natural life. The consideration for the
contract was the assumption by Mrs. Kentwell of the
support and maintenance of the incompetent. The instrument appears in a footnote.5
"'THIs INDENTURE-made this 31st day of August A. D. 1906, by
and between-ELIZA R. P. CHRISTIAN-(the only child and heir
of John Dominis Holt, the elder) of Honolulu, Island and County of

96

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

A deed was executed on May 2, 1910, in which the
incompetent and her husband, Albert Christian, her
father, John D. Holt, and Annie Holt Kentwell, and her
husband, were parties grantor -nd James Lawrence Holt
was grantee. This deed in consideration of $35,000 conOahu, Territory of Hawaii, of the first part, and-ANNIE HOLT
KENTWELL-of the same place, party of the second part.
"WrrNEsSETH-Whereas the party of the first part has for many
years last past been supported and maintained at the home of the
party of the second part, and at the cost and expense of the said
party of the second part, and
"WHERmEs-the said first party is the only child and heir of John
Dominis Holt, the elder, being also a devisee under the Will of R. W.
Holt, deceased, and is entitled in expectancy to a certain undivided
interest or moiety in certain lands situate at Waialua, Oahu, now
leased to the Waialua Agricultural Company, Limited, by lease dated
the 17th day of March, 1905, and recorded in the Hawaiian Registry
of Deeds in Liber
, Folio, and
"WHEREAs-by

virtue of being such heir of John Dominis Holt,

the elder, and such devisee under the will of R. W. Holt, deceased,
aforesaid, she, the said party of the first part, shall upon the death of
him, the said John Dominis Holt, the elder, be entitled to her share
of the rents reserved in said lease aforesaid, which share of said rents
aforesaid is now enjoyed by her father, the said John Dominis Holt,
the elder, and
"WHEREAs-the party of the second part has agreed to support
and to maintain the party of the first part for and during the period
of the natural life of her, the said party of the first part,

"Now

THEREFORE THIS INDENTURE WITNESSETH-That

the said-

ELIZA R. P. CHRISTIAN-in consideration of the premises and of
One Dollar to her in hand paid by-ANNIE HOLT KENTWELLof Honolulu aforesaid, the receipt whereof is hereby duly confessed
and acknowledged and for other and valuable consideration to the
said-ELIZA R. P. CHRISTIAN-moving from said-ANNIE
HOLT KENTWELL-, she, the said-ELIZA R. P. CHRISTIAN-,
does hereby give, sell, assign, release, transfer and set over unto the
said-ANNIE 'HOLT KENTWELL.-, her heirs, executors and administrators, all her title and interest in and to any and all rents,
issues and profits to which she may hereafter be entitled or which may
be due and payable to her by, through or under the lease to the

WAIALUA CO. v. CHRISTIAN.
91

Opinion of the Court.

veyed "one undivided third part of interest" subject to
the grantee's interest and to the lease of 1905. The deed
evidenced the intention "to convey all the interest of
the said Grantors, whether present, prospective or in
remainder, vested or contingent, of every name and description in and to said lands or which they or either of
them may hereafter acquire in and to the said lands."
The deed further declared that the grantors assigned and
set over to the grantee "all claims and demands which
they may have arising out of either said instruments
[i. e., the ones dealing with James Lawrence Holt's interests and the lease] or in any other way against the said
James Lawrence Holt, the said Waialua Agricultural Company, Limited, or the said John F. Colburn, said Trustee," with exceptions not material here. The grantors
further agreed to warrant the property conveyed against
the claims and demands of all persons.
Waialua Agricultural Company, Limited, dated the 17th day of
March, 1905, and recorded in said Liber
Folio
or by virtue of
being the only child of John Dominis Holt, the elder, and devisee
under the will of R. W. Holt, deceased, together with all and every
her right to demand, receive, collect and receipt for all such rents,
issues and profits from whomsoever due during the term of the
natural life of her, the said-ELIZA R. P. CHRISTIAN-.
"AND--it is expressly agreed and understood between and by the
parties hereto that the party of the second part shall support and
maintain her, the party of the first part, for and during the natural
life of said first part.
"AND--it is further agreed and understood by and between the
parties hereto that in case the party of the first part shall survive
the party of the second part, the heirs of said second party shall be
entitled to perform the covenant of this agreement on the part of
said second party to be kept and performed, and they shall during the
life of said first party be entitled to the benefit or benefits thereof.
"IN WITNESS WHEaEoF--the said-ELIZA R. P. CHRISTIANand-ANNIE HOLT KENTWELL-have hereunto set their hands
and seals the day and year first above written.
ELIZA R. P. CHRISTIAN
ANNIE HOLT KENTWELL"
105537°-39-

7

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

The grantee, James Lawrence Holt, and his trustee,
John F. Colburn, conveyed the interest and rights acquired
by this deed together with the other one-third undivided
interest then belonging to James Lawrence Holt to other
grantees. By successive conveyances the incompetent's
property, covered by the deed of 1910, came into the ownership of the Waialua Agricultural Company, Limited, a
defendant in the trial court.
Beginning at about the time when the tract came into
the possession of Waialua under the lease, Waialua acquired, through various conveyances, fee simple interests
of seven of the nine children of Owen J. Holt. When this
action began in 1928, Waialua held in fee simple by color
of title twenty-five twenty-sevenths of the property. Under the lease of 1905 it began to improve the property.
The lease provided that the improvements would revert
to the lessors. After the conveyances in 1910 of the life
and remainder interests, covering two-thirds of the fee,
Waialua made further important installations. Besides
the fourteen thousand acres of the Holt lands, the Waialua plantation includes an additional thirty-six thousand
acres. The properties are developed and operated as a
unit,-9,904 acres in sugar cane, 11,625 acres in pineapple, the balance uncultivated or used for servicing the
crop lands. The record shows a total expenditure of
$630,722.12 for improvements on the Holt lands between
April 1, 1905, and April 5, 1928, when Waialua was notified the deed was questioned. In addition, reservoirs,
ditches and other improvements, off the Holt lands but
necessary for their use, have cost Waialua $514,594.94.
No description is necessary other than to say that the
improvements consist of reservoirs and ditches, roads,
pumps, communication systems, camps, overseers' houses,
and the other usual fiytures and appurtenances necessary
for the operation of a large irrigated plantation.

WAIALUA CO. v. CHRISTIAN,
91

Opinion of the Court.

After the lease had been in operation for a few years,
it was found that some 6,500 acres of the Holt lands were
suitable for the growing of pineapples. After trying multiple subtenancy, an agreement was made in 1922 with
the Hawaiian Pineapple Company giving it an option to
lease all the Waialua pineapple lands at $15 per acre.
Under the option Waialua invested over three million dollars in the Pineapple Company stock and the Pineapple
Company leased 6,475 acres of the Holt lands for seventeen and one-half years from January 1, 1923, to June 30,
1940, with optional extension, at a paid-up rental, reached
by a 5% discount, of about two million dollars.
The mechanized scientific farming of the sugar cane
and pineapple lands was profitable. The trial court found
that $14 per acre was a reasonable ground rent for the
Holt land used for sugar production and that $15 per
acre was a reasonable ground rent for the pineapple lands
after the lease to the Hawaiian Pineapple Company of
January 1, 1923. A less sum per acre was found as a
reasonable ground rent for the pineapple lands prior to
that time.
In 1926 the ward was for the first time declared incompetent, and Annie Holt Kentwell was appointed her
guardian in England. In 1927 Mrs. Kentwell's brother,
George H. Holt, became guardian of the estate of the
ward in Honolulu. The present guardian, Herman V.
VonHolt, succeeded him pendente lite. On May 9, 1928,
a petition was filed against Waialua and James Lawrence
Holt in the Circuit Court of the Territory by the guardian alleging the incompetency of the ward on the date
of the execution of the deed; and that the purported consideration was inadequate and was never received by the
ward. No complaint was made of the execution of the
lease or the contract for maintenance. It was alleged
that Waialua induced James Lawrence Holt, the grantee

100

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the court.

305 U.S.

in the deed, to secure the conveyance of the property
through Holt's connection with Annie Holt Kentwell,
the dominating influence over the incompetent. The
guardian prayed for the cancellation of the deed and an
accounting for the rental value of the undivided one-third
interest from April 10, 1922, the date of the death of the
ward's father. James Lawrence Holt appeared and admitted the facts relating to his part in the transaction.
The trial court on adequate evidence found that Eliza
Christian was incompetent at the time of the execution
of the deed of 1910; that her incompetence had not been
adjudicated by a proper protective proceeding, was not
"clearly self-evident to an entire stranger" but "was
known to James L. Holt, to her father, John Dominis
Holt, to the Kentwells and to others who were familiar
with her dependency upon the Kentwells." The court
found the price inadequate and that it was not clearly
shown that Waialua Company had actual notice of the
incompetency of Eliza. The decree set aside the deed
and entered an award for $540,906.07 in rentals, after
deducting the purchase price of $30,000 and interest.
On appeal the Supreme Court of Hawaii sustained the
determination of the trial court as to the capacity of the
incompetent at the date of the execution of the deed,
finding that "she was a congenital imbecile." It assumed
that the Waialua Company "had no knowledge of Eliza
Christian's incompetency." It held that the consideration was adequate; that there was no laches; and that
limitation did not bar the proceeding. It affirmed the
action of the trial court in setting aside the deed of May
2, 1910, upon a repayment to Waialua by the incompetent of the purchase price, with interest from May 2,
1910, on a balance of equities, a consideration of the
advantages to the incompetent and a suggestion that the
consideration did not reach the grantor. The decree of
the trial court as to the recovery of the rentals was re-

WAIALUA CO. v. CHRISTIAN.
91

Opinion of the Court.

versed on the ground that Waialua had succeeded to
Annie Kentwell's rights under the contract of 1906 to
receive and keep the incompetent's rentals during the
term of the lease. Rentals beyond the termination of
the lease were not involved in the first appeal. The case
was therefore remanded to the trial court to determine
the validity of the lease of 1905 and the contract of 1906.
On the remand the trial court found that Eliza was
incompetent at the time of the execution of the contract,
that Mrs. Kentwell knew of the incompetency and that
Waialua was not an innocent purchaser from Mrs. Kentwell, since it knew of a secret profit, received by James
Lawrence Holt and John F. Colburn in connection with
the various conveyances by which Mrs. Kentwell's interests passed to Waialua, "while these two, at the same
time, knew of- the mental condition of Eliza Christian."
In considering the lease of March 17, 1905, the court found
that Eliza was incompetent when she gave her assent; but
that while the "Waialua Company, . . . is not shown
to have had any knowledge of this incompetency," a
balance of equities required a conclusion against the validity of the lease. The decree again set aside the deed
of May 2, 1910; awarded rentals in the total sum of $606,785.75; annulled the lease of March 17, 1905, in so far
as it affected the incompetent; annulled the contract for
support and maintenance of August 31, 1906, and gave to
Waialua the right to continue in the exclusive use and occupation of reservoirs, pumping stations, irrigation
ditches and other improvements until partition or other
arrangements were agreed upon. Appeal was taken from
this decree.
In its second hearing, the Supreme Court of Hawaii
maintained its finding as to the incompetency of Eliza at
the time of the execution of the deed of May 2, 1910. It
assumed that the trial court was correct in finding Eliza
incompetent at the time of the execution of the lease of

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

1905 and the contract for maintenance of 1906, and accepted the finding of the trial court that Waialua was not
shown to have any knowledge of Eliza's incompetency at
the time it took the lease of 1905. It determined that the
deed of May 2, 1910, passed the contract rights assigned
to Annie by Eliza and that Waialua succeeded to these
rights as an innocent purchaser for value. It further held
that the incompetent received an adequate consideration
for the lease of 1905. In effect it held that the assignment of 1906 was also for an adequate consideration already largely received. The contract "was beneficial td
Eliza." "Eliza had no income or other means of support."
"In entering into this contract (1906) neither of the
parties knew or could know how long a period of time
would elapse before Eliza would become entitled to a
share of the rents under the lease . . ." 6
In the final decree the deed of May 2, 1910, was set
aside; the lease of. 1905 and the contract of 1906 were
sustained; the incompetent was required to pay or secure
the payment to Waialua of the purchase price; Waialua
was required to convey to the incompetent the one-third
interest in fee simple which passed by the deed, with reservations by Waialua of certain portions occupied by its
improvements and certain lands and rights of way for
ditches, pipes, service, and roads necessary to maintain
and distribute water and operate the plantation, and
with provisions to insure to the incompetent rights of
way for the operation of her properties, if and when the
same were partitioned and set off.
We might summarize the factual situation arising from
the two trials in the lower court and the two reviews in
the Supreme Court of Hawaii as follows: Eliza Christian
was found or assumed to have been incompetent at tl-?
time of the execution of the lease of 1905, the contract
of 1906 and the deed of 1910. Waialua was not found to
'Christian v. Waialua Agricultural Co., 33 Haw. 34, 51.

WAIALUA CO. v. CHRISTIAN.
91

Opinion of the Court.

have known of this incompetency at the time it received
any rights flowing from any of the instruments. It was
determined that the status quo was restored in so far as
the deed was concerned by the repayment of the purchase price with interest and that the Holt land could be
separated from the rest of the plantation with proper
adjustment for improvements.
Upon these facts the Supreme Court of Hawaii determined applicable principles of law. Those considered by
the Circuit Court of Appeals were the following:
I. The rule of law in Hawaii is that the deed, lease or
contract of an incompetent executed prior to a judicial
declaration of incompetency is voidable. A mere showing of incompetency will not avoid it. In determining
whether it should be canceled, "all of the equities must
be considered, including those in favor of the grantee or
lessee as well as those in favor of the grantor or lessor." "
"It is our view of the law that a lease made by an
incompetent, who has not been judicially declared insane,
to a lessee without knowledge of the incompetency, for an
adequate rental and upon other terms that are reasonable
and fair, which is beneficial to the incompetent and is
in effect a provision in favor of the incompetent for
necessaries for his sustenance and comfort,-a lease which
has been fully performed and is accompanied by no fraud
or other circumstances of inequity to the incompetent,should not be canceled,-even though the lessee can be
restored to the status quo ante." 8
In its first opinion the court had said: "When the
grantee can be restored to the position it occupied immediately prior to the conveyance, the deed of the incompetent should be canceled even though it was taken in
'Christian v. Waialua Agricultural Co., 33 Haw. 34, 40.
"Christian v. Waialua Agricultural Co., 33 Haw. 34, 43.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

ignorance of the incompetency and even though the
consideration paid was adequate."
z
It did not refer in the second opinion to any conflict
between the statements but found the distinction between
the canceled deed and the confirmed lease and contract, in
the relative advantages to the incompetent. 0
II. The construction of the contract for maintenance of
1906 1 was that it covered rents, issues and profits, payable to the incompetent not only from the lessee under
the 1905 lease but also "the rents accruing thereafter
from whatever source." 1" This ruling was embodied in
the language of the final decree set out in the note below."3
"By the deed of May 2, 1910, Annie Kentwell, a mentally competent person, transferred all of her rights under
the instrument of 1906 to" Waialua. 4
III. A court of equity may permit a grantee without
notice of the incompetency, who has placed improvements
on the land of an incompetent in reliance on a conveyance
subsequently canceled, to reserve the improvements together with such land and rights of way over the incom'Christian v. Waialua Agricultural Co., 31 Haw. 817, 888.
" Christianv. Waialua Agricultural Co., 33 Haw. 34, 53.
"Footnote 5.
"2Christian v. Waialua Agricultural Co., 33 Haw. 34, 52.
" "That said instrument dated August 31, 1906, referred to in
Paragraph VII hereof, conveyed all rents, issues and profits from the
land described in the deed of May 2, 1910 .

. . ,

which have ac-

crued or will accrue to Eliza R. P. Christian, whether under the
lease dated March 17, 1905 ....

or otherwise, and from whomsoever

due, from August 31, 1906, the date of said instrument, until the end
of the natural life of her, the said Eliza R. P. Christian, and that
the respondent-appellant, Waialua Agricultural Company, Limited,
is the owner of all said rents, issues and profits so conveyed; provided, however, Waialua Agricultural Company, Limited, shall pay
all taxes and lawful assessments upon or against said land during
the lifetime of the said Eliza R. P. Christian."
"4Christianv. Waialua Agricultural Co., 33 Iaw. 34, 52.

WAIALUA CO. v. CHRISTIAN.
91

Opinion of the Court.

petent's lands as may be necessary for their proper use
under suitable conditions to be prescribed by the court. 1
While the Circuit Court of Appeals accepted the findings of fact in the trial and appellate courts of Hawaii,1 6
it took direct issue with some of the legal conclusions of
the Supreme Court of the Territory and held as follows:
I. The general rule of law is that the deed, lease or
indenture" of an incompetent, executed prior to a judicial declaration to that effect, is void. "Relief against
such a contract should not be granted, how'ever, on proof
of incompetency only." "So, in the case of a contract,
made by an incompetent, after proof of the incompetency,
relief will be granted against the contract, or refused, depending upon the situation of the parties at the time relief is asked; in other words, the situation of the parties
is the controlling factor." 18 "This ... does not mean
that the court should balance all equities of the parties,
as was done by the trial court." '" "The rule as stated
means that if the parties can be placed in statu quo, the
relief will be granted." 2 0 This rule was held applicable
to Hawaii.
Apparently in reliance on this rule, the lower court determined relief should be granted against the lease as to
the lessor, Eliza Christian, or against the contract or
against both, if she were incompetent at the time of-the
execution. 1 The territorial supreme court had denied relief "irrespective of the subject of status quo" and of
competency.22
"Christianv. Waialua Agricultural Co., 33 Haw. 34, 57.
"Christian v. Waialua Agricultural Co., 93 F. 2d 603, 609, 612;
941F. 2d 806, 807.
Christian v. Waialua Agricultural Co., 93 F. 2d 603, 611.
"Christian v. Waialua Agricultural Co., 93 F. 2d 603, 610.
" Christian v. Waialua Agricultural Co., 93 F. 2d 603, 611.
" Christianv. Waialua Agricultural Co., 93 F. 2d 603, 612.
' Christianv. Waialua Agricultural Co., 93 F. 2d 603, 613.
' Christianv. Waialua Agricultural Co., 33 Haw. 34, 63.

106

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

II. The construction of the contract of maintenance of
1906 is that the incompetent assigned to Mrs. Kentwell
her rents, issues and profits under the lease of 1905 only;
that later rents, issues and profits were retained?8
IHL. The action of the territorial supreme court, in adjusting equities as to improvements by cross conveyances
between the incompetent and the subsequent grantees, is
incorrect.
"Here, if the company is entitled to an allowance for
improvements at all, it is entitled to an allowance of onethird of the enhanced value of the land, due solely to the
addition of improvements since May 2, 1910. That
amount may be mde a lien against the land, or may be
set-off against the rentals, if any, which are found due
to the ward."' 4
Status of the Supreme Court of Hawaii.-The lower
court acquired, jurisdiction of the appeals under Judicial
Code, § 128. " When the Hawaiian Organic Act was
passed in 1900, no provision was made for appeals from
the territorial supreme court. In 1905, for matters involving more than $5,000, a direct appeal to this Court
was provided.2" In 1911 review of the territorial supreme
court was placed upon the same basis as review of the
highest court of a State, with a continued right of review,
generally, where the amount involved $5,000.'
Certiorari from this Court was provided by the Act of January 28, 1915, and for the first time review by circuit
Christianv. Waialua Agricultural Co., 93 F. 2d 603, 615.
Christianv. Waialua Agricultural Co., 93 F. 2d 603, 617.
"Fourth. In the Supreme Courts of the Territory of Hawaii
and of Porto Rico, in all civil cases, civil or criminal, wherein the
Constitution or a statute or treaty of the United States or any
authority exercised thereunder is involved; in all other civil cases
wherein the value in contrqversy, exclusive of interest and costs,
exceeds $5,000, and in all habeas corpus proceedings." 43 Stat. 936.
33 Stat. 1035.
2'636 Stat. 1158.
2

WAIALUA CO. v. CHRISTIAN.
91

107

Opinion of the Court.

courts of appeals for cases involving $5,000 or over.28 In
each of these successive enactments the Congress has
recognized, to some degree, the autonomous position of
the Supreme Court of the Territory.
This recognition is natural. The territorial court has
general appellate jurisdiction of cases involving the mores
and statutes of an archipelago, the first known compilation of whose laws appeared in 1842.' Isolated until the
day of electrical communication and aerial transportation
from continuous contact with other peoples, and inhabited by diverse stocks of Oceanica, Asia, Europe and
America, it developed, as an independent kingdom, a
jurisprudence adapted to its needs. The constitution of
Kamehameha III established a Supreme Court of the
Kingdom in 1840 and defined its jurisdiction."° The
common law and the civil law were sources of information but not of authority.31 Until 1892,32 lacunae were
filled by the judges.33 The laws developed were largely
38 Stat. 804.
Preface to the Translation of the Constitution and Laws of the
Hawaiian Islands.
'o "Tieir business shall be to settle all cases of difficulty which are
left unsettled by the tax officers and common judges. They shall give
a new trial according to the conditions of the law. They shall give
previous notice of the time for holding courts, in order that those who
are in difficulty may appeal. The decision of these shall be final.
There shall be no further trial after theirs. Life, death, confinement,
fine, and freedom from it, are all in their hands, and their decisions
are final." Translation of the Constitution and Laws of the Hawaiian
Islands, 1842, p. 20.
"The reasonings and analogies of the common law, and of the
civil law, may in like manner be cited and adopted by any such
court, so far as they are deemed to be founded in justice, and not at
conflict with the laws and usages of this kingdom." Statute Laws of
the Hawaiian Islands, 1845-47, Vol. II, p. 5.
' Hall v. Kennedy, 27 Haw. 626, 629.
" "Section 14' The Judges have equitable as well as legal jurisdiction. and in all civil matters, where there is no express law, they are

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

left in force by the Organic Act." These now include a
declaratory statute on the source of Hawaiian law." This
judicial tradition gives present substance to the rule of
this Court that deference will be paid the understanding
of territorial courts on matters of local concern. 8
Review of its Decisions.-While the determinations
made by the territorial court upon the validity of instruments executed by incompetents, the interpretation of
the contract of an incompetent, and the adjustments of
etuities concerning improvements after cancellation of a
bound to proceed and decide according to equity, applying necessary
remedies to evils that are not specifically contemplated by law, and
conserving the cause of morals and good conscience. To decide equitably, an appeal is to be made to natural law and reason, or to received
usage, and resort may also be had to the laws and usages of other
countries." Hawaii Civil Code, 1859, p. 7.
" "Sec. 1. That the phrase 'the laws of Hawaii,' as used in this Act
without qualifying words, shall mean the constitution and laws of the
Republic of Hawaii, in force on the twelfth day of August, eighteen
hundred and ninety-eight, at the time of the transfer of the sovereignty of the 1fwaiian Islands to the United States of America."
31 Stat. 141.
"Sec. 6. That the laws of Hawaii not inconsistent with the Constitution or laws of the United States or the provisions of this Act shall
continue in force, subject to repeal or amendment by the legislature
of Hawaii or the Congress of the United States." 31 Stat. 142.
"Common law applies except when. The common law of England, as ascertained by English and American decisions, is declared
to be the common law of the Territory of Hawaii in all cases, except
as otherwise expressly provided by the Constitution or laws of the
United States, or by .the laws of the Territory, or fixed by Hawaiian
judicial precedent, or established by Hawaiian usage; provided, however, that no person shall be subject to criminal proceedings except
as provided by the written laws of the United States or of the
Territory." Revised Laws of Hawaii, 1935, Ch. 1, § 1, p. 73.
Of. Kake v. Horton, 2 Haw. 209; Rex v. Tin Ah Chin, 3 Haw. 90,
95.
" Matos v. Alonso Hermanos, 300 U. S.429, 430, 432; Kealoha v.
Castle, 210 U. S.149, 154; Lewers & Cooke v. Atcherly, 222 U. S.285,
293; Ewa PlantationCo. v. Wilder, 289 F. 664, 669.

WAIALUA CO. v. CHRISTIAN.
91

Opinion of the Court.

conveyance, partake of general law, as well as of local
law,"7 we see no reason for not applying the rule as to
local matters to these circumstances. While the 34th
section of the Judiciary Act is not applicable to territories, the arguments of policy in favor of having the state
courts declare the law of the state are applicable to the
question of whether or not territorial courts should declare the law of the territories with the least possible interference.3" It is true that under the appeal statute the
lower court had complete power to reverse any ruling of
the territorial court on law or fact; 3" but we are of the
opinion that this power should be exercised only in cases
of manifest error. The differentiations, implicit and explicit, in the opinions of the Supreme Coui t of Hawaii, as
to the rules of law applicable to the proceedings to set
aside the deed of 1910 and those applicable to similar
proceedings as to the lease of 1905 and the contract for
maintenance of 1906, do -not furnish occasion for reversal
by the lower court.4" In so far as the decisions of the
Supreme Court of Hawaii are in conformity with the
Constitution and applicable statutes of the United
States and are not manifestly erroneous in their statement or application of governing principles, they are to
be accepted as stating the law of the Territory. Unless
there is clear departure from ordinary legal principles,
the preference of a federal court as to the correct rule of
general or local law should not be imposed upon Hawaii.
Decision of the Supreme Court of Hawaii.-To adopt
the legal principles applied by the territorial supreme
'Black & White Taxi Co. v. Brown & Yellow Taxi Co., 276 U. S.
518, 526, 530.
Cf. Swift v. Tyson, 16 Pet. 1; Erie R Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U. S.
64; Lewers & Cooke v. Atcherly, 222 U. S. 285, 294.
Cf. Philippine Sugar Co. v. Philippine Islands, 247 U. S. 385, 390.
OCf. Sioux Remedy Co. v. Cope, 235 U. S. 197, 201; Fidelity &
Columbia Trust Co. v. Louisville, 245 U. S. 54, 59.

110

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

court in these cases as rules of decision in that jurisdiction, or to construe instruments as it interpreted them, is
not manifest error.
Whatever may be the better rule as to the voidableness
of the transfer documents of an incompetent, it is not
clearly wrong to select the one here chosen."
The construction of the contract of maintenance by
the territorial court of last resort is likewise defensible.
The lower court, itself, said the assignment of rents due
to the incompetent "by virtue of being ... devisee under
the will . . . during the term of the natural life of her"
the incompetent (see note 5, supra), might mean "that
the ward assigned all rents including those to which she
might be entitled under the lease to the company and
any other lease." 4 The minority opinion reached this
conclusion.4 8 Although on consideration of the entire contract the majority reached a different answer, the interpretation of the Supreme Court of Hawaii is not manifestly erroneous. Nor do we see any occasion to re~xamine the interpretation that the deed of May 2, 1910
(the relevant portions of which are set out above, ante,
p. 96), conveyed the rents, issues and profits, assigned
to Mrs. Kentwell.
' 2 Black, Rescission and Cancellation (2d ed.), §§ 255-258; 1
Williston, Contracts (Rev. ed., 1936-38), § 254; Imperial Loan Co.
v. Stone, (1892) 1 Q. B. 599; Casebier v. Casebier, 193 Ky. 490;
236 S. W. 966.
" Christianv. Waialua Agricultural Co., 93 F. 2d 603, 614, 615.
"In my opinion the agreement of August 31, 1906, from Eliza
Christian to Annie Kentwell, in consideration of her support and
maintenance during the balance of her life, purported to convey
not only all the rents accruing to Eliza Christian under the lease of
1905 after the contingent remainder of Eliza Christian became
vested in 1922 upon the death of her father, as held by the majority opinion, but also all the rents, issues, and profits after the
expiration of the lease and until her death." Christian v. Waialua
Agricultural Co., 93 F. 2d 603, 618.

KELLOGG CO. v. NAT. BISCUIT CO.
91

Syllabus.

The lower court considered it necessary to apply here
the rule that the occupant of the land of another was
entitled to be paid, as compensation for improvements,
a sum equal to the amount by which the improvements
increased the value of the property, not exceeding the cost.
It is not always necessary so to penalize an innocent
improver. If he is a tenant in common, partition may be
made so as to set apart to him the portion improved."
Under the circumstances here disclosed, the action of the
Hawaiian court in awarding to Waialua the realty and improvements described in the decree need not be set aside.
Decree of the lower court reversed and decree of the
Supreme Court of Hawaii affirmed.
Reversed.
KELLOGG COMPANY v. NATIONAL BISCUIT
COMPANY.
CERTIORARI

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

Nos. 2 and 56.

Argued October 10, 1938.-Decided November 14,
1938.

1. The term "shredded wheat" is generic, and no exclusive right to
its use may be acquired. P. 116.
2. Moreover, "shredded wheat" was the general designation of the
product made under the product and process patents issued to
Perky, upon the expiration whereof there passed to the public
not only the right to make the article as it was made during the
patent period, but also the right to apply thereto the name by
which it had become known. P. 117.
3. To establish, by application of the doctrine of secondary meaning,
the exclusive right to "shredded wheat" as a trade name, the
claimant must show that the primary significance of the term in
"See Highland Park Mfg. Co. v. Steele, 232 F. 10, 34, modified
235 F. 465; Cochran v. Shoenberger, 33 F. 397, 398; Ford v. Knapp,
102 N. Y. 135, 140; 6 N. E. 283.

