OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Statement of the Case.

305 U. S.

JAMES v. UNITED ARTISTS CORP.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.

No. 161.

Argued December 8, 9, 1938.-Decided January 3, 1939.

Appellee, a foreign corporation engaged in the business of distributing motion picture films for exhibition in theatres in various States,
had no office or place of business in West Virginia; it carried on no
business there except such as was involved in the solicitation by a
traveling representative of exhibition contracts all of which were
made outside of the State. To exhibitors there it shipped films
from outside of the State and these were returned by the exhibitors
likewise to points outside of the State. Other than these films,
when temporarily there, it had no property in the State. It had
no collection agent in the State, but all sums due under the contracts were required to be paid at offices outside of the State.
When the contract was for a percentage of the exhibitor's gross
receipts, the exhibitor agreed to set apart such percentage "in
trust" to be paid to appellee outside the State. Held: appellee
was not subject to the tax, measured by gross income, imposed by
§ 2 (i) of Art. 13, c. 11, of the West Virginia Code, on all engaged
within the State "in the business of collecting incomes from the
use of real or personal property." P. 414.
So construed in the absence of a state supreme court decision
interpreting the section and of any evidence of its legislative history; and in view of the emphasis put by the section and its
various subsections on the carrying on of business or other specified activities within the State as the real incidence of the tax, and
the fact that the exhibitors' gross receipts are taxed to them under

another provision of the statute. Questions as to the power of a
State to lay a tax on income derived from sources within it, and
as to the validity of a tax upon solicitation within the State of
the contracts, are not here involved.
23 F. Supp. 353, affirmed.
APPEAL

from a decree of a three-judge District Court,

enjoining the collection of a state tax.

JAMES v. UNITED ARTISTS CORP.
410

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Clarence W. Meadows, Attorney General of West
Virginia, with whom Mr. W. Holt Wooddell, Assistant
Attorney General, was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Robert G. Kelly for appellee.
By leave of Court, Messrs. G. W. Hamilton, Attorney
General of Washington, and R. G. Sharpe, Assistant Attorney General, filed a brief, as amici curiae, on behalf of
the State of Washington, in support of appellant.
MR. JUSTICE, STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
This appeal requires consideration of but a single question: whether appellee is subject to the provisions of a
statute of West Virginia which lays a tax, measured by
gross receipts, "Upon every person [including corporations] engaging . . . within this state in the business of
collecting incomes from the use of real or personal property. .. ."
Appellee, a Delaware corporation, having an office and
its principal place of business in New York City, brought
the present suit in the District Court for southern West
Virginia against appellant, a West Virginia tax official, to
restrain collection of a tax imposed by Article 13 of Chapter 11 of the West Virginia Code, as amended March 9,
1935, by c. 86, West Virginia Laws of 1935, on the ground
that the appellee was not, '-y the terms of the statute, subject to the tax, and that fhe tax was an unconstitutional
burden on interstate commerce. 1
'The suit was begun befor, the enactment on August 21, 1937, of
the amendment to § 24 of ti Judicial Code, 50 Stat. 738, providing
that "no district court shal' iave jurisdiction of any suit to enjoin,
suspend, or restrain the ass, ssment, levy, or collection of any tax
imposed by or pursuant tc the laws of any State where a plain,
speedy, and efficient remedy may be had at law or in equity in the
courts of such State." Section 2 of the Act excludes from its
operation suits begun in the district courts before its enactment.

412

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

The district court, three judges sitting, adopted as its
findings the facts as stipulated. It found that the amount
of the tax exceeded $3,000 and that such judicialremedy as
there was u.der West Virginia law for recovery of the tax,
if paid, was not enforceable at law in the federal courts,
and that by reason of penalties for nonpayment, some of
which were cumulative, appellee was without adequate
legal remedy. The court concluded that appellee was not
doing business in West Virginia or engaged there in the
business of collecting income from the use of personal
property, within the meaning of the applicable taxing act,
and that the attempted tax was an unconstitutional
burden on interstate commerce, and decreed that collection of the tax be permanently enjoined. 23 F. Supp. 353.
The case comes here on appeal under § 266 of the Judicial
Code, 28 U. S. C. § 380.
Section 2 of Article 13, c. 11, of the West Virginia Code,
as amended, lays annual privilege taxes upon various
businesses and activities carried on within the state. Section 2(g) imposes a tax of one-half of one per cent. of
the gross income derived from the business of operating a
theatre or moving picture show. Section 2(h) taxes the
gross receipts of every person engaging within the state in
any business not otherwise specifically taxed, and § 2(i)
levies upon "every person engaging . . . within this state
in the business of collecting incomes from the use of real
or personal property" a tax of one per cent. "of the gross
income of any such activity."
Appellee is engaged in the business of distributing motion picture films for exhibition in theatres in various
states, including West Virginia. It maintains branch offices in Ohio, Pennsylvania, and the District of Columbia,
but has no office or place of business in West Virginia, and
has no agents or employees in the state other than a traveling representative who visits the state to solicit from
theatre managers or owners contracts for the exhibition

JAMES v. UNITED ARTISTS CORP.
410

Opinion of the Court.

there of films to be supplied by appellee. Appellee owns
no property in West Virginia other than the films sent
there temporarily for exhibition and afterward returned
to it at points without the state.
In the course of its business appellee from time to time
makes public announcements of its offering of films.
Theatre owners or managers in West Virginia sign written applications in the form of offers for license contracts
permitting the exhibition in West Virginia of such films
as they desire to show there. The signed applications are
transmitted to appellee's New York office, where it accepts or rejects them. When they are accepted, appellee
signs a written acceptance attached to the application
and returns the executed contract to the exhibitor. The
subsequent course of business between appellee and the
West Virginia exhibitor conforms to the terms of the contract. It calls for the delivery of the films by shipment
from any of appellee's exchanges to the exhibitor !in
West Virginia, and provides for exhibition of the films for
a specified period, for which the exhibitor undertakes to
pay a fixed sum or a percentage of the receipts from exhibition, and for the return of the films by the exhibitor
after they are shown, by shipping them to another exhibitor or to one of the appellee's exchanges, as appellee
may direct.
When the license is upon a percentage basis, the exhibitor undertakes to segregate appellee's percentage of
the box office receipts and to hold it "in trust" and pay
it over to the appellee daily. But the contract provides
that "Any and all payments to be made hereunder shall
be payable to the Distributor at the city in which is located-the Exchange from which the Exhibitor is served,"
and all payments due appellee from West Virginia exhibitors are sent by them to appellee at points without
the state.
Upon the argument the state conceded that the exhibitors of appellee's films in West Virginia are subject to

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

and pay the tax imposed on operators of moving picture houses by § 2 (g) and that the tax is measured by
the entire gross receipts from exhibiting the films, ascertained without deducting the percentage payable to appellee. The Attorney General of the state disclaimed
any contention that appellee was taxable under § 2 (h),
see Pennywitt v. Blue, 73 W. Va. 718; 81 S. E. 399, or
under any provisions of the statute other than those of
2 (i) laying a gross receipts tax on every person engaging within the state in the business of collecting incomes
from property.
The Supreme Court of West Virginia appears not to
have construed this section, and we are without the benefit of any legislative history of the statute indicating that
it has any purpose or meaning other than that suggested
by its words. We are not jere concerned with the question whether a state, by a statute appropriately framed,
may lay a tax on income derived from sources within it,
or whether the solicitation of the contracts may be taxed.
No such taxation is attempted by § 2 (i). The taxing
provisions of § 2 are restricted in their application to
various enumerated classes of activities within the state,
one of which, specified in § 2 (i), is that of engaging there
in the business of collecting incomes. The conduct of
such a business or activity by appellee requires its presence there, or that of its agent, and the collection of income within the state by the one or the other. As it is
stipulated and found that appellee carries on no business
within the state, except such as is involved in solicitation of the contracts, and has no collection agent there,
and as the exhibitors there are bound to and do pay
all sums due under their contracts to appellee at points
outside the state, we can find no basis for saying that it
is engaged in collecting income within the state, either as
a business or otherwise.

U. S. v. ALGOMA LUMBER CO.
410

Syllabus.

The contract requirement that the exhibitor is to set
apart the appellee's percentage of the gross receipts "in
trust" is a familiar device for securing payment to the
appellee in the event of the exhibitor's financial embarrassment. But it does not make the exhibitor appellee's
agent, nor does it dispense in law, more than it has in fact;
with the performance of the former's obligation to make
all payments to appellee without the state. The
emphasis placed by § 2 and its various subsections on the
carrying on of business or other specified activities within
the state as the condition of laying the tax, and the fact
that the exhibitors' receipts are taxed in their hands under
§ 2 (g), lead to the conclusion that there was no legislative purpose in cases like the present to tax gross receipts
apart from the business or activity of collecting them,
carried on within the state. We cannot say that the court
below was wrong in that conclusion.
Affirmed.
UNITED STATES v. ALGOMA LUMBER CO.*
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 245.

Argued December 16, 1938.-Decided January 3, 1939.

1. Contracts for the sale to a lumber company of timber on unallotted land of the Klamath Indian Reservation, executed by the
Superintendent of the Klamath Indian school for and on behalf
of the Klamath Indians, pursuant to § 7 of the Act of June 25,
1910 and under regulations and with the approval of the Secretary
of the Interior, the moneys received under the contracts being
deposited pursuant to statutory requirement in the United States
Treasury, to be held and used by the Secretary for the benefit of
the Indians, held not contracts of the United States, A suit
* Together with No. 246, United States v. Forest Lumber Co., and
No. 247, United States v. Lamm Lumber Co., also on writs of certiorari to the Court of Claims.

