SHIELDS v. UTAH IDAHO R. CO.
165

177

Syllabus.

regardless of actual existence, is sufficient. As to the first
group it is said an adjudication may be collaterally attacked, as to the second it may not. We do not review
these cases as we base our conclusion here on the fact that
in an actual controversy the question of the jurisdiction
over the subject matter was raised and determined adversely to the respondent. That determination is res
adjudicata of that issue in this action, whether or not
power to deal with the particular subject matter was
strictly or quasi-jurisdictional.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS concurs in the result.
SHIELDS ET AL. V. UTAH IDAHO CENTRAL
RAILROAD CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 28. Argued October 19, 1938.-Decided December 5, 1938.
1. Congress, having power to subject interstate railways to the requirements of the Railway Labor Act relating to labor relations,
was empowered also to except interurban electric railways not
operating as part of a general steam-railroad system, and to confide the question of fact whether a particular railroad falls within
the excepted category to determination, after hearing and upon
evidence, by the interstate Commerce Commission. P. 170.
2. The conferring of authority, by the Railway Labor Act, upon the
Interstate Commerce Commission to determine whether a particular electric railway is an interurban one is not an unconstitutional
delegation of power. P. 181.
3. Under § 1 of the Railway Labor Act, it is the function of the
Interstate Commerce Commission to determine as matters of fact,
not only whether an electric railway line is operated as part of a
general steam-railroad system of transportation, but also whether
it is an "interurban" line. P. 181.
4. The purpose of the Act in requiring a hearing on these matters
by the Commission-a hearing of evidence and argument-, is to
comply with the requirements of due process. P. 182.
105537°-39--12

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Counsel for Parties.

305 U. S.

5. The Commission's determination, made at the request of the Mediation Board, is binding on the Board and on the carrier. P. 182.
6. A determination of the Interstate Commerce Commission, under
the Railway Labor Act, that an electric line is not "interurban,"
though not in itself an "order," Shannahan v. United States, 303
U. S. 596, subjects the carrier to regulation by the Mediation
Board and to criminal punishment if its ordeis are disobeyed, and
its validity is subject to judicial review in a suit in equity brought
by the carrier against the United States Attorney to restrain
prosecutions. P. 182.
7. Upon review of such determination of the Interstate Commerce
Commission the question is whether the Commission acted within
its statutory authority; and, where the requirement as to hearing
was satisfied, the sole remaining question would be whether the
Commission in arriving at its determination departed from the
applicable rules of law and whether its finding had a basis in
substantial evidence or was arbitrary and capricious. P. 184.
8. In this case, the determination of the Commission that complainant was not an "interurban" electric line finds support in evidence
before the Commission, and was not arbitrary or capricious; nor did
it depart from applicable principles of law. P. 185.
95 F. 2d 911, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 304 U. S. 556, to review the affirmance of
a decree permanently enjoining a United States Attorney
from instituting prosecutions under the Railway Labor
Act. The Interstate Commerce Commission intervened
as a party defendant. For the opinion of the Commission, see 214 I. C. C. 707.

Solicitor General Jackson, with whom Assistant Attor-

ney General Arnold, and Messrs. Hugh B. Cox, Robert
L. Stern, and Daniel W. Knowlton were on the brief, for

petitioners.
Messrs. J. A. Howell and I obert E. Quirk for the respondents. Messrs. J. H. DeVine and Neil R. Olmstead

were with Mr. Howell on the brief.

By leave of Court, briefs of amici curiae were filed by
Mr. Win. D. Whitney on behalf of the Hudson & Man-

SHIELDS v. UTAH IDAHO R. CO.
177

Opinion of the Court.

hattan Railroad Co., and by Messrs. Robert E. Quirk and
Claude D. Cass on behalf of the American Transit Assn.,
in support of the respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This case presents the questions of the effect of a determination by the Interstate Commerce Commission, for
the purposes of the Railway Labor Act, that the respondent is not an interurban electric railway, and of the scope
of judicial review of that determination.
The Railway Labor Act, which applies to railroads
engaged in interstate commerce, excepts any "interurban"
electric railway unless it is operating as a part of a general
steam-railroad system of transportation.' The Interstate
Commerce Commission is "authorized and directed upon
request of the Mediation Board or upon complaint of any
party interested to determine after hearing whether any
line operated by electric power" falls within the exception.
At the request of the Mediation Board, the Interstate
Commerce Commission after hearing determined that the
lines of respondent, the Utah Idaho Central Railroad
Company, do not constitute an interurban electric railway. 214 I. C. C. 707. The Mediation Board ordered
respondent to post the formal notice prescribed by § 2,
Eighth, of the Railway Labor Act.2 Respondent did not
comply. Failure to publish the notice subjects "the carrier, officer or agent offending" to criminal penalties.3
Respondent, insisting that its line is an interurban electric
railway and thus excepted from the Railway Labor Act,
and alleging the invalidity of the Act, brought this suit
against the United States Attorney for the District of
248

Stat. 1185; 45 U. S. C. 151

45 U. S. C. 152, Eighth.
'45 U. S. C. 152, Tenth.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

Utah to restrain him from prosecuting any proceeding
based upon an alleged violation of the Act.
The District Court took jurisdiction, permitted respondent to try the question de novo, decided that respondent was an interurban electric railway, and granted
a permanent injunction. The Circuit Court of Appeals
affirmed. 95 F. 2d 911. We granted certiorari.
As respondent, however characterized, is engaged in interstate transportation, the question whether it should
be subjected to the requirements of the Railway, Labor
Act relating to the adjustment of labor disputes, was one
for the decision of Congress. These requirements were
prescribed in the exercise by Congress of its constitutional control over interstate commerce. Texas & New
Orleans R. Co. v. Railway Clerks, 281 U. S. 548; Virginian Railway Co. v. System Federation No. 40, 300
U. S. 515. As Congress was free to establish the categories which should be excepted, Congress could bring
to its aid an administrative agency to determine the question of fact whether a particular railroad fell within the
exception, and Congress could make that factual determination, after hearing and upon evidence, conclusive.
St. Joseph Stock Yards Co. v. United States, 298 U. S.
38, 51. For that purpose Congress could create a new
administrative agency or use one already existing. And
as the questions of fact involved would relate to methods
of railroad transportation, and thus to a field in which
the interstate Commerce Commission had peculiar expertness, Congress could fittingly commit the determination to that body.
Congress did not define the term "interurban." Despite the desirability of such a definition ' and the diffi'Annual Reports of Interstate Commerce Commission, 1921, p. 21;
1923, p. 70; 1924, p. 78; 1925, p. 72; 1928, p. 83; 1929, p. 80; to
which reference is made in United States v. Chicago North Shore &
M. R. Co., 288 U. S. 1, 11, 12.

SHIELDS v. UTAH IDAHO R. CO.
177

Opinion of the Court.

culties occasioned by its absence, the term is not so destitute of meaning that it can be denied effect as a valid
description. Respondent, standing upon the exception,
necessarily treats it as valid and hence as susceptible of
application. That view presupposes that the term "interurban" denotes distinguishing factual characteristics
which on appropriate inquiry may be ascertained. We
have so treated the term in other relations. Piedmont &
Northern Ry. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 286
U. S. 299; United States v. Chicago North Shore & M.
R. Co., 288 U. S. 1. The conferring of authority upon
the Interstate Commerce Commission to determine
whether a particular electric railway is an interurban one
cannot be regarded as an unconstitutional delegation of
power. See United States v. Chicago North Shore & M.
R. Co., supra, at pp. 13, 14.
In the instant case, the Interstate Commerce Commission has made the determination contemplated by the
statute and we are not concerned with the questions
which might arise in its absence. The Commission's determination was one of fact. Shannahanv. United States,
303 U. S. 596, 599. What effect shall be ascribed to it?
The argument is pressed that the determination is at best
persuasive and not in any wise binding upon the courts.
It is urged that the Commission was restricted to determining whether respondent was operated as a part of a
general steam-railroad system of transportation, which
concededly it was not; that the determination of the
Commission was not an "order"; that Congress has not
manifested an intention that the determination should be
binding in judicial proceedings and that in the nature of
things it could not be made binding in criminal prosecutions.
We are unable to agree with the view expressed in the
court below that the Commission was confined to determining whether respondent was operated as a part of a

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

general steam-railroad system of transportation. Before
reaching that point-as to which there was no questionthe Commission had to determine whether respondent was
an "interurban" line. That has been the administrative
construction of the statutory provision 6 and we see no
reason to doubt its correctness.
In considering the effect of the Commission's determination, the fundamental question is the intent of Congress. The language of the provision points to definitive
action. The Commission is to "determine." The Commission must determine "after hearing." The requirement of a "hearing" has obvious reference "to the tradition of judicial proceedings in which evidence is received
and weighed by the trier of the facts." The "hearing" is
"the hearing of evidence and argument." Morgan v.
United States, 298 U. S. 468, 480. And the manifest purpose in requiring a hearing is to comply with the requirements of due process upon which the parties affected by
the determination of an administrative body are entitled
to insist. Interstate Commerce Comm'n v. Louisville &
Nashville R. Co., 227 U. S. 88, 91. The Commission is
not only authorized but "directed" to give the hearing
and make the determination when requested. We cannot
think that a determination so prescribed and safeguarded
was intended to have no legal effect. On the contrary, in
view of the nature and purpose of the proceeding, we
must regard the determination as binding on both the
carrier and the Mediation Board. The latter having obtained the determination could not ignore it; neither
could the carrier.
We have held that the determination of the Commission is not an "order" reviewable under the Urgent DeSee Texas Electric Railway, 208 I. C. C. 193; Chicago South
Shore & South Bend Railroad, 214 I. C. C. 167; Utah Idaho Central
Railroad Co., 214 I. C. C. 707.

SHIELDS v. UTAH IDAHO R. CO.
177

Opinion of the Court.

ficiencies Act of October 22, 1913. Shannahan v. United
States, supra. But we have not held that the determination of the Commission was not subject to judicial
review by other procedure, a question which, as we said
in the Shannahan case, we had no occasion there to consider. Id., at p. 603. The nature of the determination
points to the propriety of judicial review. For, while
the determination is made by the Interstate Commerce
Commission for the purposes of the Railway Labor Act
and not for further proceedings by the Commission itself,
it is none the less a part of a regulatory scheme. It has
the effect, if validly made, of subjecting the respondent
to the requirements of the Railway Labor Act, which was
enacted to regulate the activities of transportation companies engaged in interstate commerce.7 The Mediation
Board has ordered the posting of the prescribed notice
that disputes between the carrier and its employees will
be handled under the Railway Labor Act. Disobedience
is immediately punishable and it is made the duty of the
United States Attorney to institute proceedings against
violators. Respondent has invoked the equity jurisdiction to restrain such prosecution and the Government
does not challenge the propriety of that procedure.
Equity jurisdiction may be invoked when it is essential
to the protection of the rights asserted, even though the
complainant seeks to enjoin the bringing of criminal
actions. Philadelphia Company v. Stimson, 223 U. S.
605, 621, 622; Truax v. Raich, 239 U. S. 33, 37, 38; Terrace v. Thompson, 263 U. S. 197, 214. To support its
contention that equitable relief is appropriate, respondent points to the peculiar difficulties which confront it
038

Stat. 208, 219, 220; 28 U. S. C. 41, 46, 47.

Compare Great Northern Ry. Co. v. United States, 277 U. S. 172,
180; Butte, Anaconda & Pacific Ry. Co. v. United States, 290 U. S.
127.

184

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

under the congressional legislation. Congress has enacted two sets of statutes which involve the application
of the same criterion. If respondent is subject to the
Railway Labor Act, it is excluded from the application
of the National Labor Relations Act; " otherwise not.
The Railroad Retirement Act of 1937' has a like proviso
excepting interurban electric railways and authorizing
the Interstate Commerce Commission to determine
whether a particular electric railway falls within the
exception. A similar provision is found in the Carriers
Taxing Act of 1937 10 and in the Railroad Unemployment
Insurance Act of 1938.11 In these circumstances we
think respondent was entitled to resort to equity in order
to obtain a judicial review of the questions of the validity
and effect of the Commission's determination purporting
to fix its status..
What is the scope of the judicial review to which respondent is entitled? As Congress had constitutional
authority to enact the requirements of the Railway Labor
Act looking to the settlement of industrial disputes between carriers engaged in interstate commerce and their
employees, 2 and could include or except interurban carriers as it saw fit, no constitutional question is presented
calling for the application of our decisions " with respect
'49 Stat. 449, § 2 (2).
°50 Stat. 307.
"50 Stat. 435.
"52 Stat. 1094. See, also, the provision of § 9 (a) of the Carriers Taxing Act of 1937, 50 Stat. 439, with respect to the application of the term "employment" as defined in Title VIII of the Social Security Act, § 811 (b).
" Texas & New Orleans R. Co. v. Railway Clerks, 281 U. S. 548;
Virginian Railway Co. v. System Federation No. 40, 300 U. S. 515.
Ohio Valley Water Co. v. Ben Avon Borough, 253 U. S. 287, 289;
Prendergastv. New York Telephone Co., 262 U. S. 43, 50; Bluefield
Water Works Co. v. Publiu Service Comm'n, 262 U. S. 679, 689; Tagg
Bros. & Moorhead v. United States, 280 U. S. 420, 443, 444; Phillips

SHIELDS v. UTAH IDAHO R. CO.
177

Opinion of the Court.

to a trial de novo so far as the character of the respondent
is concerned. With respect to that question, unlike the
case presented in United States v. Idaho, 298 U. S. 105,
where the Interstate Commerce Commission was denied
the authority to determine the character of the trackage
in question (Id., p. 107), the Commission in this instance
was expressly directed to make the determination. As
this authority was validly conferred upon the Commission, 14 the question on judicial review would be simply
whether the Commission had acted within its authority.
Interstate Commerce Comm'n v. Union Pacific R. Co.,
222 U. S. 541, 547; Interstate Commerce Comm'n v.
Louisville & Nashville R. Co., 227 U. S. 88, 91; Virginian
Railway Co. v. United States, 272 U. S. 658, 663; Tagg
Bros. & Moorhead v. United States, 280 U. S.420, 444;
Floridav. United States, 292 U. S.1, 12; St. Joseph Stock
Yards Co. v. United States, supra.
The condition which Congress imposed was that the
Commission should make its determination after hearing.
There is no question that the Commission did give a
hearing. Respondent appeared and the evidence which
it offered was received and considered. The sole remaining question would be whether the Commission in arriving at its determination departed from the applicable
rules of law and whether its finding had a basis in substantial evidence or was arbitrary and capricious. Id.
That question must be determined upon the evidence produced before the Commission.
Taking that position, petitioners unsuccessfully objected in the District Court to the admission of new
evidence. But that evidence was substantially the same
v. Commissioner, 283 U. S. 589, 600; Crowell v. Benson, 285 U. S.
22, 60; State CorporationComm'n v. Wichita Gas Co., 290 U. S. 561,

569.
"See United States v. Chicago North Shore & M. R. Co., 288
U. S. 1, 13, 14.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

as that produced before the Commission, which was also
received. The facts carefully analyzed by the Commission (214 I. C. C. pp. 709-711) are virtually undisputed.
Respondent's railway extends from Ogden, Utah, north
to Preston, Idaho, a distance of 94.63 miles and has two
branch lines of about 7 and 14 miles respectively. About
81.8 per cent. of the line is located on privately owned
right-of-way and the remaining 18.2 per cent. on public
streets or highways, these being chiefly in fifteen cities
and towns. The Government concedes the point stressed
by respondent that its line has many of the physical
characteristics of an interurban railroad. Thus its tracks
on the whole are of lighter weight, its grades slightly
steeper, its curves sharper, its stations and sidetracks
more frequent, its motive power of less capacity, its sidetracks shorter than is customary on trunk lines, and its
passenger business is conducted in the same manner as
that of any interurban electric railway. The passenger
business, however, yields but a minor part (about 18.1
per cent.) of the total revenues. During the five years
from 1930 to 1934, inclusive, the freight revenues
amounted to $2,021,724.57 and the revenues from passengers, mail and express were $448,941.62. The railway
is predominantly a carrier of freight. The freight traffic
consists to a large extent of raw products such as sugar
beets, milk, tomatoes and peas moving to factories, canneries or processing plants, and of the manufactured
products moving outbound from the plants to connecting railroads. A considerable part of the movement of
the raw products requires special service with one-car or
two-car trains. A daily package-merchandise train is
maintained, with facilities for refrigeration in summer
and heating in winter and with pick-up and delivery service at all available points. In 1934 the freight trains
averaged 6.2 cars each. In the last half of that year the

SHIELDS v. UTAH IDAHO R. CO.
177

187

Opinion of the Court.

carrier handled 6,354 carloads of freight of which 2,226
were local and 4,017 were interchanged with other carriers. The traffic originating on its line moved to points
in 31 States and that delivered by it was from points in
26 States. Respondent is a party to practically all the
tariffs publishing through rates to or from this territory
and its interchange traffic generally moves on joint rates.
It does not perform intermediate service between other
lines. Practically all the interchange traffic is handled in
standard equipment furnished by connecting railroads.
It cannot be said upon this evidence, and the related
facts summarized in the Commission's report, that the
Commission's determination lacked support or was arbitrary or capricious. Nor is there ground for holding that
the Commission in reaching its determination departed
from applicable principles of law. There is no principle
of law which required such a carrier to be classified as an
interurban railway. Failing in its effort to obtain a
clarifying definition from Congress, the Commission performed its duty in weighing the evidence and reaching
its conclusion in the light of the dominant characteristics
of respondent's operations which were fairly comparable
to those of standard steam railroads. Compare Piedmont
& Northern Ry. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n,
supra,pp. 308-310; United States v. Chicago North Shore
& M. R. Co., supra, p. 10.
We conclude that the District Court erred in permitting a trial de novo of that issue and that the determination of the Commission was within its authority
validly exercised. The decree of the Circuit Court of
Appeals is reversed and the cause is remanded to the
District Court with direction to dismiss the bill of complaint.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK concurs in the result.

