KELLOGG CO. v. NAT. BISCUIT CO.
91

Syllabus.

The lower court considered it necessary to apply here
the rule that the occupant of the land of another was
entitled to be paid, as compensation for improvements,
a sum equal to the amount by which the improvements
increased the value of the property, not exceeding the cost.
It is not always necessary so to penalize an innocent
improver. If he is a tenant in common, partition may be
made so as to set apart to him the portion improved."
Under the circumstances here disclosed, the action of the
Hawaiian court in awarding to Waialua the realty and improvements described in the decree need not be set aside.
Decree of the lower court reversed and decree of the
Supreme Court of Hawaii affirmed.
Reversed.
KELLOGG COMPANY v. NATIONAL BISCUIT
COMPANY.
CERTIORARI

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

Nos. 2 and 56.

Argued October 10, 1938.-Decided November 14,
1938.

1. The term "shredded wheat" is generic, and no exclusive right to
its use may be acquired. P. 116.
2. Moreover, "shredded wheat" was the general designation of the
product made under the product and process patents issued to
Perky, upon the expiration whereof there passed to the public
not only the right to make the article as it was made during the
patent period, but also the right to apply thereto the name by
which it had become known. P. 117.
3. To establish, by application of the doctrine of secondary meaning,
the exclusive right to "shredded wheat" as a trade name, the
claimant must show that the primary significance of the term in
"See Highland Park Mfg. Co. v. Steele, 232 F. 10, 34, modified
235 F. 465; Cochran v. Shoenberger, 33 F. 397, 398; Ford v. Knapp,
102 N. Y. 135, 140; 6 N. E. 283.

112

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Statement of the Case.

305 U. S.

the minds of the consuming public is not the product but the
producer. P. 118.
4. The right of a competitor, upon expiration of the patents, to make
the patented product and call it by its generic name, could not
be lost by delay, even though the earlier manufacturer, in the period
between the expiration of the patents and the time when the
competitor became a factor, had spent large- sums in advertising
the product. The only obligation of the competitor was to identify
its own product lest it be mistaken for that of the earlier producer. P. 119.
5. Inasmuch as the pillow-snaped biscuit was the form in which
shredded wheat was made under the patents and in which the
article became generally known, the form was dedicated to the
public upon expiration of the patents. P. 119.
6. Upon the facts of this case, held that the Kellogg Company, in
making and selling "shredded wheat" biscuits under that name,
in pillow-shape form, in competition with a similar product of the
National Biscuit Company (successor to the Shredded Wheat
Company), was not doing so unfairly. The obligation resting
upon the Kellogg Company was not to insure that every purchaser
would know it to be the maker of the biscuits sold by it, but to
use every reasonable means to prevent confusion. P. 120.
There was no evidence in this case of "passing off" or deception on the part of the Kellogg Company.
7. The Kellogg Company is not obliged to refrain from using the
name "shredded wheat" and to make its biscuit in some other than
the pillow-shape form. It is entitled'to share in the goodwill of
an article unprotected by patent or trade-mark. Furthermore,
the evidence is persuasive that the pillow-shape form must be
used, because it is functional. P. 121.
8. The question whether the Kellogg Company's use upon its packages of a picture of two shredded wheat biscuits in a bowl was
a violation of a trade-mark of the National Biscuit Company,
held not before this Court on the present record. P. 122.
91 F. 2d 150; 96 id. 873, reversed.
. CERTIORARI, 304 U. S. 586, to review a decree of in-

junction against the petitioner and a later order clarifying
the decree. A petition for certiorari to review the first
decree had previously been denied, 302 U. S. 733. Juris-

KELLOGG CO. v. NAT. BISCUIT CO.
111

113

Opinion of the Court.

diction of the federal court was based upon diversity of
citizenship.
Mr. Thomas D. Thacher, with whom Messrs. W. H.
Crichton Clarke, Edward S. Rogers, Robert T. McCracken, Richard H. Demuth, and E. Ennalls Berl were
on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. David A. Reed; with whom Messrs. Charles A.
Vilas, Thomas G. Haight, and Drury W. Coover were
on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTIcE BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.

This suit was brought in the federal court for Delaware' by National Biscuit Company against Kellogg
Company to enjoin alleged unfair competition by the
manufacture and sale of the breakfast food commonly
known as shredded wheat. The competition was alleged
to be unfair mainly because Kellogg Company uses, like
the plaintiff, the name shredded wheat and, like the
plaintiff, produces its biscuit in pillow-shaped form.
Shredded wheat is a product composed of whole wheat
which has been boiled, partially dried, then drawn or
pressed out into thin shreds and baked. The shredded
wheat biscuit generally known is pillow-shaped in form.
It was introduced in 1893 by Henry D. Perky, of Colo'The federal jurisdiction rests on diversity of citizenship-National Biscuit Company being a New Jersey corporation and Kellogg
Company a Delaware corporation. Most of the issues in the case
involve questions of common law and hence are within the scope of
Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U. S. 64 (1938). But no claim has
been made that the local law is any different from the general
law on the subject, and both parties have relied almost entirely on
federal precedents.
105537°-39----8

114

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

rado; and he was connected until his death in 1908 with
companies formed to make and market the article. Commercial success was not attained until the Natural Food
Company built, in 1901, a large factory at Niagara Falls,
New York, In 1908, its corporate name was changed to
"The ShreddedWheat Company"; and in 1930 its business and goodwill were acquired by National Biscuit
Company.
Kellogg Company has been in the business of manufacturing breakfast food cereals since its organization in
1905. For a period commencing in 1912 and ending in
1919 it made a product whose form was somewhat like
the product in question, but whose manufacture was different, the wheat being reduced to a dough before being
pressed into shreds. For a short period in 1922 it manufactured the article in question. In 1927, it resumed
manufacturing the product. In 1928, the plaintiff sued
for alleged unfair competition two dealers in Kellogg
shredded wheat biscuits. That suit was discontinued by
stipulation in 1930. On June 11, 1932, the present suit
was brought. Much evidence was introduced; but the
determinative facts are relatively few; and as to most
of these there is no conflict.
In 1935, the District Court dismissed the bill. It found
that the name "Shredded Wheat" is a term describing
alike the product of the plaintiff and of the defendant;
and that no passing off or deception had been shown.
It held that upon the expiration of the Perky patent
No. 548,086 issued October 15, 1895, the name of the
patented article passed into the public domain. In
1936, the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed that decree.
Upon rehearing, it vacated, in 1937, its own decree and
reversed that of the District Court, with direction "to
enter a decree enjoining the defendant from the use of the
name 'Shredded Wheat' as its trade-name and from advertising or offering for sale its product in the form

KELLOGG CO. v. NAT. BISCUIT CO.
111

115

Opinion of the Court.

and shape of plaintiff's biscuit in violation of its trademark; and with further directions to order an accounting
for damages and profits." In its opinion the court described the trade-mark as "consisting of a dish, containing
two biscuits submerged in milk." 91 F. 2d 150, 152. We
denied Kellogg Company's petition for a writ of certiorari, 302 U. S. 733; and denied rehearing, 302 U. S. 777.
On January 5, 1938, the District Court entered its
mandate in the exact language of the order of the Circuit
Court of Appeals, and issued a permanent injunction.
Shortly thereafter National Biscuit Company petitioned
the Circuit Court of Appeals to recall its mandate "for
purposes of clarification." It alleged that Kellogg Company was insisting, contrary to the court's intention, that
the effect of the mandate and writ of injunction was to
forbid it from selling its product onfy when the trade
name "Shredded Wheat" is applied to a biscuit in the
form and shape of the plaintiff's biscuit and is accompanied by a representation of a dish with biscuits in it;
and that it was not enjoined from making its biscuit
in the form and shape of the plaintiff's biscuit, nor from
calling it "Shredded Wheat," unless at the same time it
uses upon its cartons plaintiff's trade-mark consisting of a
dish with two biscuits in it. On May 5, 1938, the Circuit
Court of Appeals granted the petition for clarification
and directed the District Court to enter a decree
enjoining Kellogg Company (96 F. 2d 873):
"(1) from the use of the name 'SHREDDED WHEAT' as
its trade name, (2) from advertising or offering for sale
its product in the form and shape of plaintiff's biscuit,
and (3) from doing either."
Kellogg Company then filed a petiion for a writ of
certiorari to review the decree as so clarified, and also
sought reconsideration of our denial of its petition for certiorari to review the decree as entered in its original form.
In support of these petitions it called to our attention the

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

decision of the British Privy Council in Canadian
Shredded Wheat Co. v. Kellogg Co. of Canada, 55 R. P. C.
125, rendered after our denial of the petition for certiorari earlier in the term. We granted both petitions
for certiorari.2
The plaintiff concedes that it does not possess the exclusive right to make shredded wheat. But it claims the
exclusive right to the trade name "Shredded Wheat" and
the exclusive right to make shredded wheat biscuits pillow-shaped. It charges that the defendant, by using the
name and shape, and otherwise, is passing off, or enabling
others to pass off, Kellogg goods for those of the plaintiff.
Kellogg Company denies that the plaintiff is entitled to
the exclusive use of the name or of the pillow-shape;
denies any passing off; asserts that it has used every
reasonable effort to distinguish its product from that of
the plaintiff; and contends that in honestly competing for
a part of the market for shredded wheat it is exercising
the common right freely to manufacture and sell an
article of commerce unprotected by patent.
First. The plaintiff has no exclusive right to the use of
the term "Shredded Wheat" as a trade name. For that
is the generic term of the article, which describes it with
a fair degree of accuracy; and is the term by which the
biscuit in pillow-shaped form is generally known by the
public. Since the term is generic, the original maker of
the product acquired no exclusive right to use it. As
Rights here claimed by plaintiff have been involved in much
other litigation.

See Natiural Food Co. v. Williams, 30 App. D. C.

34S; Shreddcd Wheat Co. v. Humlphryc! Cornell Co., 250 F. 960
(C. C. A. 2d); Ke'lloqq Co. v. Natimual Biscuit Co., 71 F. 2d 662
(C. C. A. 2d); (uuadian Shredded Whcat Co. v. Kellogg Co. of
Canada, 55 R. P. C. 125; Iu re Trade lmark No. 500761, Registered
in the N:mie of the Shredded Wheat Co., Ltd., in Class 42 (1938).
Supreme Comt of .ludic:ture, Court of Alppeal; also Naturl-al Food

Co. v. Bukly, No. 26,5:;U, U. S. Dist. Ct., N. Dist. Ill., East.

Div.

190S).

KELLOGG CO. v. NAT: BISCUIT CO.
111

Opinion of the Court.

Kellogg Company had the right to make the article, it
had, also, the right to use the term by which the public
knows it. Compare Saxlehner v. Wagner, 216 U. S. 375;
Holzapfel's Compositions Co. v. Rahtjen's American Composition Co., 183 U. S. 1. Ever since 1894 the article has
been known to the public as shredded wheat. For many
years, there was no attempt to use the term "Shredded
Wheat" as a trade-mark. When in 1905 plaintiff's predecessor, Natural Food Company, applied for registration
of the words "Shredded Whole Wheat" as a trade-mark
under the so-called "ten year clause" of the Act of February 20, 1905, c. 592, § 5, 33 Stat. 725, William E.
Williams gave notice of opposition. Upon the hearing it
appeared that Williams had, as early as 1894, built a
machine for making shredded wheat, and that he made
and sold its product as "Shredded Whole Wheat." The
Commissioner of Patents refused registration. The
Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia affirmed his
decision, holding that "these words accurately and aptly
describe an article of food which ... has been produced .

.

. for more than ten years

...

"

Natural Food

Co. v. Williams, 30 App. D. C. 348.3
Moreover, the name "Shredded Wheat," as well as the
product, the process and the machinery employed in making it, has been dedicated to the public. The basic patent
for the product and for the process of making it, and many
other patents for special machinery to be used in making
the article, issued to Perky. In those patents the term
"shredded" is repeatedly used as descriptive of the product. The basic patent expired October 15, 1912; the
' The trade-marks are registered under the Act of 1920. 41 Stat.
533, 15 U. S. C. §§ 121-28 (1934). But it is well settled that registration under it has no effect on the domestic common-law rights
of the person whose trade-mark is registered. Charles Broadway
Rouss, Inc. v. Wichester Co., 300 F. 706, 71:3, 714 (C. C. A. 2d);
Kellogg Co. v. National Biscuit Cu., 71 F. 2d 662, 6O6 (C. C. A. 2d).

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

others soon after. Since during the life of the patents
"Shredded Wheat" was the general designation of the
patented product, there passed to the public .upon the
expiration of the patent, not only the right to make the
article as it was made during the patent period, but also
the right to apply thereto the name by' which it had become known. As was said in Singer Mfg. Co. v. June Mfg.
Co., 163 U. S. 169, 185:
"It equally follows from the cessation of the monopoly
and the falling of the patented device into the domain
of things public, that along with the public ownership
of the device there must also necessarily pass to the public the generic designation of the thing which has arisen
during the monopoly. . . . To say otherwise would be to
hold that, although the public had acquired the device
covered by the patent, yet the owner of the patent or the
manufacturer of the patented thing had retained the designated name which was essentially necessary to vest the
public with the full enjoyment of that which had become
theirs by the disappearance of the monopoly."
It is contended that the plaintiff has the exclusive right
to the name "Shredded Wheat," because those words acquired the "secondary meaning" of shredded wheat made
at Niagara Falls by the plaintiff's predecessor. There is
no basis here for applying the doctrine of secondary
meaning. The evidence shows only that due to the long
period in which the plaintiff or its predecessor was the
only manufacturer of the product, many people have
come to associate the product, and as a consequence the
name by which the product is generally known, with the
plaintiff's factory at Niagara Falls. But to establish a
trade name in the term "shredded wheat" the plaintiff
must show more than a subordinate meaning which applies to it. It must show that the primary significance
of the term in the minds of the consuming public is not
the product but the producer. This it has not done. The

KELLOGG CO. v. NAT. BISCUIT CO.
111

Opinion of the Court.

showing which it has made does not entitle it to the
exclusive use of the term shredded wheat but merely
entitles it to require that the defendant use reasonable
care to inform the public of the source of its product.
The plaintiff seems to contend that even if Kellogg
Company acquired upon the expiration of the patents
the right to use the name shredded wheat, the right was
lost by delay. The argument is that Kellogg Company,
although the largest producer of breakfast cereals in the
country, did not seriously attempt to make shredded
wheat, or to challenge plaintiff's right to that name until
1927, and that meanwhile plaintiff's predecessor had expended more than $17,000,000 in making the name a
household word and identifying the product with its
manufacture. Those facts are without legal significance.
Kellogg Company's right was not one dependent upon
diligent exercise. Like every other member of the public,
it was, and remained, free to make shredded wheat when
it chose to do so; and to call the product by its generic
name. The only obligation resting upon Kellogg Company was to identify its own product lest it be mistaken
for that of the plaintiff.
Second. The plaintiff has not the exclusive right to sell
shredded wheat in the form of a pillow-shaped biscuit,the form in which the article became known to the public.
That is the form in which shredded wheat was made
under the basic patent. The patented machines used
were designed to produce only the pillow-shaped biscuits.
And a design patent was taken out to cover the pillowshaped form.' Hence, upon expiration of the patents
"The design patent would have expired by limitations in 1909. In
1908 it was declared invalid by a district judge on the ground that the
design had been in public use for more than two years prior to the
application for the patent and theretofore had already been dedicated
to the public. Natural Foods Co. v. Bulkley, No. 28,530, U. S. Dist.

Ct., N. Dist. Ill., East. Div. (1908).

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

the form, as well as the name, was dedicated to the public.
As was said in Singer Mfg. Co. v. June Mfg. Co., supra,
p. 185:
"It is self evident that on the expiration of a patent
the monopoly granted by it ceases to exist, and the right
to make the thing formerly covered by the patent becomes public property. It is upon this condition that the
patent is granted. It follows, as a matter of course, that
on the termination of the patent there passes to the
public the right to make the machine in the form in
which it was constructed during the patent. We may,
therefore, dismiss without further comment the complaint, as to the form in which the defendant made his
machines."
Where an article may be manufactured by all, a particular manufacturer can no more assert exclusive rights
in a form in which the public has become accustomed to
see the article and which, in the minds of the public, is
primarily associated with the article rather than a particular producer, than it can in the case of a name with
similar connections in the public mind. Kellogg Company was free to use the pillow-shaped form, subject only
to the obligation to identify its product lest it be mistaken
for that of the plaintiff.
Third. The question remains whether Kellogg Company in exercising its right to use the name "Shredded
Wheat" and the pillow-shaped biscuit, is doing so fairly.
Fairness requires that it be done in a manner which
reasonably distinguishes its product from that of plaintiff.
Each company sells its biscuits only in cartons. The
standard Kellogg carton contains fifteen biscuits; the
plaintiff's twelve. The Kellogg cartons are distinctive.
They do not resemble those used by the plaintiff either
in size, form, or color. And the difference in the labels is
striking. The Kellogg cartons bear in bold script the
names "Kellogg's Whole Wheat Biscuit" or "Kellogg's

KELLOGG CO. v: NAT. BISCUIT CO.
111

Opinion of the Court.

Shredded Whole Wheat Biscuit" so sized and spaced as
to strike the eye as being a Kellogg product. It is true
that on some of its cartons it had a picture of two
shredded wheat biscuits in a bowl of milk which was
quite similar to one of the plaintiff's registered trademarks. But the name Kellogg was so prominent on all
of the defendant's cartons as to minimize the possibility
of confusion.
Some hotels, restaurants, and lunchrooms serve biscuits
not in cartons and guests so served may conceivably suppose that a Kellogg biscuit served is one of the plaintiff's
make. But no person familiar with plaintiff's product
would be misled. The Kellogg biscuit is about twothirds the size of plaintiff's; and differs from it in appearance. Moreover, the field in which deception could
be practiced is negligibly small. Only 2Y2 per cent of the
Kellogg biscuits are sold to hotels, restaurants and lunchrooms. Of those so sold 98 per cent are sold in individual
cartons containing two biscuits. These cartons are distinctive and bear prominently the Kellogg name. To
put upon the individual biscuit some mark which would
identify it as the Kellogg product is not commercially
possible. Relatively few biscuits will be removed from
the individual cartons before they reach the consumer.
The obligation resting upon Kellogg Company is not to
insure that every purchaser will know it to be the maker
but to use every reasonable means to prevent confusion.
It is urged that all possibility of deception or confusion
would be removed if Kellogg Company should refrain
from using the name "Shredded Wheat" and adopt some
form other than the pillow-shape. But the name and
form are integral parts of the goodwill of the article. To
share fully in the goodwill, it must use the name and the
pillow-shape. And in the goodwill Kellogg Company is
as free to share as the plaintiff. Compare William R.
Warner & Co. v. Eli Lilly & Co., 265 U. S.526, 528, 530.

122

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U.S.

Moreover, the pillow-shape must be used for another reason. The evidence is persuasive that this form is functional-that the cost of the biscuit would be increased
and its high quality lessened if-ome other form were substituted for the pillow-shape.
Kellogg Company is undoubtedly sharing in the goodwill of the article known as "Shredded Wheat"; and thus
is sharing in a market which was created by the skill and
judgment of plaintiff's predecessor and has been widely
extended by vast expenditures in advertising persistently
made. But that is not unfair. Sharing in the goodwill
of an article unprotected by patent or trade-mark is the
exercise of a right possessed by all-and in the free exercise of which the consuming public is deeply interested.
There is no evidence of passing off or deception on the
part of the Kellogg Company;' and it has taken every
reasonable precaution to prevent confusion or the practice of deception in the sale of its product.
Fourth. By its "clarifying" decree, the Circuit Court
of Appeals enjoined Kellogg Company from using the
picture of the two shredded wheat biscuits in the bowl
only in connection with an injunction against manufacturing the pillow-shaped biscuits and the use of the term
shredded wheat, on the grounds of unfair competition.'
'Attention is called to the fact that the label on these Kellogg
cartons bears, in small letters, the words: "The original has this
[W. K. Kellogg's] signature." Objection to their use was not charged
in the bill; no such issue was raised at the trial; and the use was not
enjoined. Counsel for the Company admitted in the argument before
us that its use, common as applied to other Kellogg products, should
not have been made on cartons of shredded wheat; and stated that
the use had been discontinued long before entry of the "clarifying"
decree.
"In its opinion clarifying the mandate, the Circuit Court of Appeals,
after considering the provisions concerning the name and the form of
the biscuit, said (96 F. 2d 873, 875):
"The only remaining question is whether, in view of the fact that
the order of April 12, 1937, did not specifically provide for an injunc-

KELLOGG CO. v. NAT. BISCUIT CO.
111

Opinion of the Court.

The use of this picture was not enjoined on the independent ground of trade-mark infringement. Since the National Biscuit Company did not petition for certiorari,
the question whether use of the picture isa violation of
that trade-mark although Kellogg Company is free to
use the name and the pillow-shaped biscuit is not here
for review.
Decrees reversed with direction
to dismiss the bill.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

are of opinion that the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is correct and should be affirmed. To them it seems
sufficiently clear that the Kellogg Company is fraudulently seeking to appropriate to itself the benefits of a
goodwill built up at great cost by the respondent and its
predecessors.

tion against the violation of the two-biscuit-in-a-dish trade-mark
(although it was intended to do so) we have any jurisdiction to amend
the mandate so as to include specifically such a provision. As there
may be some doubt on this question, we will not amend the mandate

so as to provide a specific' injunction against the use of the twobiscuit-in-a-dish trade-mark. Its use on a carton on in advertising
matter, when the defendant is not permitted to use the word 'Shredded
Wheat' as a trade-name or to advertise or sell biscuits in the pillowshape form, would manifestly be so improper and so likely to mislead
that we will assume that the appellee will not use it."

