OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

305 U. S.

ment he had made against the ginner was satisfied by
payment of the tax. Whether or not the tax was imposed
upon the petitioners, they are, according to accepted principles, entitled to recover unless they were volunteers,
which they plainly were not because they paid the tax
under duress of goods.
The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded for
further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR.

JUSTICE REED

took no part in the consideration or

decision of this case.
SOVEREIGN CAMP OF THE WOODMEN OF THE
WORLD v. BOLIN ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE KANSAS

CITY COURT

OF APPEALS

OF

MISSOURI.

No. 31.

Argued October 21, 1938.-Decided November 7, 1938.

1. A fraternal beneficiary association of Nebraska issued and delivered
in Missouri a certificate of membership requiring the member to
pay dues and assessments and providing for benefits to accrue
upon his death. Pursuant to a by-law of the association, the
certificate purported to exempt the member from further dues
and assessments after twenty years; but this exemption was afterwards adjudged by the Supreme Court of Nebraska, in a class suit
brought by the holder of a similar certificate, to be ultra vires and
void. In an action in Missouri by beneficiaries named in the
certificate first-mentioned, held:
(1) That the certificate was not a mere contract to be construed
and enforced according to the laws of the State where it was
delivered. Entry into the society was entry into a complex and
abiding relation and the rights of membership are governed by the
law of the State of incorporation. Another State, wherein the
certificate of membership was issued, can not attach to membership, rights against the society which are refused by the law of
the domicil. P. 75.

SOVEREIGN CAMP v. BOLIN.
66

Argument for Petitioner.

(2) The question whether the association was estopped to plead
ultra vires was not to be determined by the Missouri law of old
line insurance companies. P. 76.
(3) The judgment of the Nebraska court, in the class suit,
determined that the association lacked power to issue certificates
exempt from dues and assessments after twenty years, and that
it was not estopped to plead ultra vires in that regard. P. 78.
(4) The Missouri court, by enforcing the certificate, failed to
give full faith and credit to the association's charter embodied in
the statutes of Nebraska as interpreted by its highest court.
P. 79.
2. In a class suit by a member of a beneficiary association to determine the power of the association to issue beneficial membership
certificates exempt from dues and assessments after twenty years,
the association represents all its members and stands in judgment
for them, and the judgment is conclusive upon all the members
of the association with respect to all rights, questions, or facts
therein determined. P. 78.
112 S. W. 2d 582, 592, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 304 U. S. 557, to review the affirmance of
a judgment against the present petitioner in an action
on a fraternal beneficial certificate. The Supreme Court
of the State :would not entertain an appeal.
Mr. John T. Harding, with whom Messrs. Rainey T.
Wells and David A. Murphy were on the brief, for petitioner.
(a) The relative rights and duties of petitioner and
respondents under the beneficiary certificate must be determined by application of the laws of the State of Nebraska, notwithstanding the fact that the certificate was
issued and accepted and the dues were paid in the State
of Missouri.
(b) The judgment of the Supreme Court of Nebraska
was a final, valid adjudication that, under petitioner's
charter, the by-law and the limited payment provisions
of the beneficiary certificates issued pursuant to said
by-law were ultra vires of petitioner and invalid, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Argument for Petitioner.

305 U. S.

that petitioner is not estopped to assert their invalidity
in a suit based upon said by-law to enforce the limited
payment features of the beneficiary certificate. Trapp v.
Sovereign Camp of the Woodmen of the World, 102 Neb.
562; Haner v. Grand Lodge, A. 0. U. W., 102 Neb. 563.
(c) The judgment of the Supreme Court of Nebraska
having been rendered in a suit brought for the benefit
of a class to which Pleasant Bolin belonged, and being
a final adjudication of a controversy as to which petitioner could stand in judgment for its members, is res
judicata and binding upon respondents, and should have
been accorded full faith and credit in the court below.
Smith v. Swormstedt, 16 How. 288; Bernheimer v. Converse, 206 U. S. 516; Converse v. Hamilton, 224 U. S.
243; Selig v. Hamilton, 234 U. S. 652; Broderick v. Rosner, 294 U. S. 629; Parker v. Luehrmann, 126 Neb. 1;
Supreme Council of the Royal Arcanum v. Green, 237
U. S. 531; Hartford Life Ins. Co. v. Ibs, 237 U. S. 662;
Hartford Life Ins. Co. v. Barber, 245 U. S. 146.
(d) If the Nebraska judgment is not considered res
judicata and binding upon respondents in a personal
sense, it nevertheless announces the legal significance
of petitioner's charter under the laws of Nebraska; and
the charter, as thus interpreted, was entitled to full faith
and credit in the court below.
(e) The decision of the court below on the question of
estoppel was, of itself, a denial of full faith and credit to
petitioner's charter and the Nebraska judgment because
(1) the decision was reached by application of the laws
of Missouri instead of- the laws of Nebraska; and (2)
the issue of estoppel was finally adjudicated by the Nebraska judgment in favor of petitioner.
(f) The opinion of the Supreme Court of Nebraska
was the construction of a fraternal charter. It held that
under said charter the by-Jaw and the "payments to
cease" clause were ultra vires and void. It also held that

SOVEREIGN CAMP v. BOLIN.
66

Argument for Respondents.

the. plea of estoppel was not available. It is, therefore,
wholly immaterial whether under the Missouri law the
certificate is labeled fraternal or "old line." If the constitutional question is present, the plea of estoppel, under
the Missouri law, must be absent. The fact that no
license was required of the association in Missouri at the
time when the certificate was written in no sense affects
the constitutional mandate. Canada Southern Railroad
v. Gebhard, 109 U. S. 527, 537.
(g) Application of the Missouri insurance laws by the
court below changed arid impaired the substantive rights
of petitioner established by the laws of Nebraska, and its
charter; and they and the Nebraska judgment were denied
the credit, validity and effect to which they were entitled under the full faith and credit provision of the
Constitution.
Mr. Miles Elliott, with whom Messrs. Ray Weightman,
E. H. Gamble, and A. F. Harvey were on the brief, for
respondents.
The judgment of the state court rests upon at least four
independent grounds not involving a federal question and
each of which is adequate to support the judgment.
Therefore, this Court is without jurisdiction and the writ
of certiorari should be dismissed.
(a) A decision of the state court based upon an estoppel does not present a federal question.
(b) The proposition that the certificate was subject to
the general insurance laws of Missouri, for the reason
that when it was issued, the corporation was not licensed
in Missouri, not having complied with the fraternal beneficiary laws, was a question of local law adequate to support the judgment, because the power of a State over
foreign corporations doing business therein .s equal to its
power over domestic corporations.
(c) The certificate was delivered to and accepted by
the insured in the State of Missouri. He paid all of the

70

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Argument for Respondents.

305 U. S.

dues and assessments in Missouri. This makes it a Missouri contract to which the laws of Missouri apply and
by the laws of which it is governed; and the issues concerning it are to be adjudicated in accordance with the
laws of Missouri. New York Life Ins. Co. v. Cravens,
178 U. S. 389; Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Johnson, 293 U. S.
335; Northwestern Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. McCue, 223
U. S. 234; Equitable Life Assurance Society v. Pettus,
140 U. S. 226; Ragsdale v. Brotherhood of Railroad
Trainmen, 229 Mo. App. 545; 80 S. W. 2d 272; Johnson
v. American Central Life Ins. Co., 212 Mo. App. 290;
249 S. W. 115; Grant v. North American Benefit Corp.,
223 Mo. App. 104; 8 S. W. 2d 1043; Weed v. Bank Savings Life Ins. Co., 24 S. W. 2d 653; Crohnv. United Commercial Travelers, 170 Mo. App. 273.
(d) The certificate, being a Missouri contract, the contract rights therein provided could not be materially
changed by so-called by-laws subsequently enacted by
the company, or by the laws of Missouri or any other
State.
The Trapp case, relied on by petitioner, was not binding on the courts of Missouri in the instant case.
Under the Missouri rules of pleading, the defense of
res judicata must be pleaded in order to be available.
The Trapp suit was not binding as a class case on the
rights of Bolin and his beneficiaries.
(a) When it was filed, no right of action existed on
the Bolin policy, payments thereon not having been made
for twenty years.
(b) While the petition in the Trapp case stated that
Trapp brought the suit for himself and others similarly
situated, the petition did not ask for relief for anyone
except Trapp; and the judgment did not purport to
apply to any other person.
(c) Trapp did not plead or assert his rights under the
laws of Missouri, thus segregating himself from the class
to which Bolin belonged.

SOVEREIGN CAMP v. BOLIN.
66

Argument for Respondents.

(d) In the Trapp case there was no plea sufficient,
under the Nebraska law, to raise the issue of estoppel.
(e) The Trapp case was based merely on a resolution
of petitioner's executive council, providing for paid-up
certificates, and the fraternal insurance laws of Nebraska,
whereas the Bolin suit is based on a certificate or policy
of insurance issued in Missouri, governed by the laws of
Missouri and protected by the contract clause of the Federal Constitution.
There was no showing that Bolin acquiesced in the
Trapp,case, knew anything about it or had anything to
do with it, and there is no showing that the rights upon
which he relied were in any way represented or adjudicated in the Trapp case.
(f) There was no showing in the record of the Trapp
case that the rights or interests of any holder of a policy
or certificate, under the Missouri laws, were fairly represented or protected; that any such certificate holder had
any knowledge of the suit or any opportunity to have
his interests fairly protected or represented, or knew anything about the Trapp suit or in any manner acquiesced
therein. Therefore, the Trapp case did not meet the requirements of a class suit. Old Wayne Mutual Life Assn.
v. McDonough, 204 U. S. 8; American Surety Co. v.
Baldwin, 287 U. S. 156.
If the decision in the Trapp case were applicable, it is
in violation of § 10, Art. I, the contract clause, of the
Constitution of the United States in that it holds a substantial provision of an insurance contract, to-wit, a provision that payments thereon should cease in twenty
years, to have been invalidated by a subsequently enacted statute of the State of Nebraska.
The authorities cited by petitioner involve only questions of internal affairs or business management of the
society or corporation, and questions arising in corporate
receiverships or similar proceedings. None of them in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

volves the construction or effect of a contract between the
corporation itself and another party. None of them
involves the issue of estoppel under the law of the forum.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
We granted certiorari because of the claim that the
judgment of the court below failed to accord full faith
and credit to the public acts, records, and judicial proceedings of the State of Nebraska as required by Article
IV, § 1 of the Constitution.
The petitioner is a fraternal beneficiary association organized under the laws of Nebraska, having a lodge system, a ritualistic form of work, and a representative
form of government. It has no capital stock, and transacts its affairs without profit and solely for the mutual
benefit of its members and their beneficiaries. It makes
provision for the payment of death benefits by assessments upon its members and issues to members certificates assuring payment of such benefits.
In 1895 the petitioner adopted a by-law authorizing
the issue of life membership certificates. Under this bylaw a member entering the order at an age greater than
43 years was entitled to life membership without the
payment of further dues and assessments when the certificate had been outstanding 20 years. In June 1896,
while the by-law remained unrepealed, Pleasant Bolin,
who was over 43 years of age, joined a Missouri lodge of
the petitioner and received a certificate of membership
which recited that while in good standing he would be
entitled to participate in the beneficial fund to the
amount of $1,000 payable to his beneficiaries and to the
sum of $100 for placing a monument at his grave. The
certificate recited that it was issued subject to all the
conditions named in the constitution and laws of the fra-

SOVEREIGN CAMP v. BOLIN.
66

Opinion of the Court.

ternity and was endorsed with the words "Payments to
cease after 20 years."
After Bolin's death, the respondents, as beneficiaries,
brought action to recover upon the certificate. The petitioner's answer set up that Bolin had ceased to pay the
required dues and assessments in July 1916, and his certificate had therefore become void; that the by-law making the certificate fully paid after twenty years was ultra
vires of the association and had been so declared by the
Supreme Court of Nebraska in a class suit brought by one
Trapp, the holder of a certificate similar to that of Bolin;
that, under Article IV, § 1, of the Constitution, full
faith and credit must be given by the courts of Missouri
to this decision of the Supreme Court of Nebraska. The
respondents replied that the contract was made and delivered in Missouri and was to be construed and enforced
according to Missouri law; that, at the date of its consummation, the petitioner had no license or authority to
transact business in Missouri as a corporation or otherwise, and the certificate was therefore to be considered
as issued pursuant to, and governed by, the general insurance laws of Missouri; that Bolin having fully performed in accordance with the terms of the certificate,
the petitioner was estopped to plead ultra vires; and that
in truth the contract was not ultra vires of the petitioner.
A jury was waived and the case was tried to the court.
The respondents proved the issue of the certificate and
Bolin's payments for twenty years thereafter. The petitioner proved the adoption of the by-law purporting to
authorize the issue of "payments to cease" certificates;
and put in evidence an exemplified copy of the record in
Trapp v. Sovereign Camp of the Woodmen of the World,
102 Neb. 562; 168 N. W. 191, wherein it was decided that
petitioner never had power under the law of Nebraska
to issue such a certificate. Judgment went for the re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

spondents. The petitioner appealed to the Supreme
Court of Missouri, which remanded the cause to the
Kansas City Court of Appeals ' on the ground that it
involved no constitutional question. The latter affirmed
the judgment' and adhered to its decision on rehearing.'
The court below based its decision on the following
grounds:
Under the law of Missouri the certificate
was a Missouri contract because it was delivered to Bolin in Missouri and he made his payments there; all issues respecting rights arising out of the contract must, therefore, be adjudicated according to the decisions of the
Missouri courts. The question then arises what system
of local law is applicable,-that relating to fraternal
beneficiary societies or that applicable to old line insurance companies. At the time the contract was made
there was no local statute providing for the licensing of
foreign fraternal beneficiary societies. Under the decisions of the Missouri courts the petitioner must, therefore, be denied the immunities extended by statute to
domestic fraternal beneficiary associations and must be
taken to have been doing business in Missouri under the
State's general insurance laws, and the certificate must
be regarded as a contract of general or old line insurance. This conclusion is not altered by the nature
of the society granting the insurance because the character of the insurance, so far as Missouri is concerned,
depends on the terms of the contract only. Whatever
may be the character of the petitioner in the eye of the
Nebraska law it need not have the same character in
Missouri. Whether it is a fraternal beneficiary society
when sued in Missouri is a question of local law. Even
'Bolin v. Sovereign Camp, W. 0. W., 339 Mo. 618; 98 S. W. 2d 681.
'Bolin et al. v Sovereign Camp, W. 0. W., - Mo. App.-; 112
S. W. 2d 582.
'Bolin et al. v. Sovereign Camp, W. 0. W., - Mo. App. -; 112
S. W. 2d 592.

SOVEREIGN CAMP v. BOLIN.
66

Opinion of the Court.

if the issue of the certificate be an ultra vires act under
the law of Nebraska it does not follow that it is such
under the law of Missouri. The contract is not ultra
vires under the law of Missouri or, if so, the petitioner
may not plead ultra vires because, in the light of Missouri law, the contract is an insurance contract with an
old line insurance company and the petitioner, under
Missouri decisions, cannot, in the circumstances disclosed, avail itself of the fact that the contract was in
excess of its charter powers.
The court refused to give force or effect to the decision
of the Supreme Court of Nebraska in Trapp v. Woodmen,
supra, saying that case did not hold the issue of such a
certificate ultra vires in the sense that it was prohibited
by positive statute; that the contract being a Missouri
contract its ultra vires character must be adjudged by the
local law irrespective of what the courts of the domicile
had held; that the respondents in the present case relied
on an estoppel of the petitioner to plead ultra vires,
whereas no such issue was presented or decided in the
Trapp case.
We hold that the judgment denied full faith and credit
to the public acts, records, and judicial proceedings of
the State of Nebraska.
First. The beneficiary certificate was not a mere contract to be construed and enforced according to the laws
of the State where it was delivered. Entry into membership of an incorporated beneficiary society is more than a
contract; it is entering into a complex and abiding relation and the rights of membership are governed by the
law of the State of incorporation. Another State, wherein
the certificate of membership was issued, cannot attach
to membership rights against the society which are refused by the law of the domicile."
4 Modern Woodmen v. Mixer, 267 U. S. 544, 551; Royal Arcanum
v. Green, 237 U. S. 531, 542.

76

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

Second. The circumstance that at the time the certificate was issued domestic fraternal societies were exempted
from the operation of the general insurance law of the
State, and no similar exemption was extended to foreign
societies, cannot enlarge the statutory and charter powers
of such a foreign society. The fundamental error of the
court below springs from a misapprehension of the effect
to be given to the absence of provisions exempting foreign beneficiary associations from the statutes applicable
generally to old line life insurance companies. Missouri
has statutes affecting the validity and enforcibility of
stipulations inserted in life insurance policies and other
statutes dealing with procedure in actions upon such policies. In 1879 a statute was passed authorizing the incorporation of fraternal beneficiary societies and exempting them from the operation of the general laws of the
State in respect of insurance companies0 An act of 1881
exempted both domestic and foreign societies from the
Pperation of the general insurance laws.' This act did not
require the registration of foreign associations but accorded them the same exemption as domestic associations. In 1889 the legislature adopted an act revising the
statutes dealing with private corporations and therein
provided that domestic beneficial societies should not be
subject to the general insurance laws of the State, but
omitted any reference to foreign associations. 7 It was
not until 1897 that foreign beneficiary associations were
required, as a condition of doing business within the
State, to register and to file annual reports and to designate the Superintendent of the Insurance Department as
the person upon whom process might be served. If they
'Act of March 8, 1879; Laws 1879; R. S. 1879, §§ 972, 973.
'Act of March 8, 1881; Laws of 1881, p. 87.
'Act of May 7, 1889; R. S. 1889, §§ 2823, 2824.

SOVEREIGN CAMP v. BOLIN.
66

Opinion of the Court.

complied with the provisiuns of this statute they were
exempted from the operation of the general insurance
laws.' This act has been carried forward in later revisions and, with changes immaterial to our inquiry, remains in force. From this hiatus in the statutes governing foreign beneficiary associations it resulted that while
foreign associations were not forbidden from organizing
lodges, obtaining members, and issuing benefit certificates in Missouri, and their certificates so issued were not
deemed to be void, 9 certificates issued in the interim between 1889 and 1897 were construed in accordance with,
and actions thereon were governed by, the provisions of
the general insurance laws."' The Missouri courts, however, were apparently not called upon in any of the cases
-affected by this rule of decision to pass upon the question
of the power of such a society, under the law of the State
of its incorporation, to write a particular sort of beneficiary certificate; " but this court reversed a judgment of
the Supreme Court of Missouri which, without reference
to the distinction between the rule applicable to domestic and foreign societies, rexamined and refused to give
effect to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Connecti'Act of March 16, 1897; R. S. 1899, c. 12, Art. 11, §§ 1408, 1409,
1410.
'Schmidt v. Foresters,228 Mo. 675, 686; 129 S. W. 653.
"0 Kern v. Legion of Honor, 167 Mo. 471, 479, 484; 67 S. W. 252;
Schmidt v. Foresters,supra; Mathews v. Modern Woodmen, 236 Mo.
326; 139 S. W. 151; Brassfield v. Maccabees, 92 Mo. App. 102;
Gruwell v. Knights and Ladies, 126 Mo. App. 496; 104 S. W. 884.
' In Kern v. Legion of Honor, supra, the court said, p. 485: "The
contention that the plaintiff as husband could not be the beneficiary
under the laws of Massachusetts or under its charter and by-laws,
is not open to discussion or adjudication. No such issue was raised
in the pleadings or asserted upon the trial in the circuit court. ...
The defendant chose its grounds of defense, none others are open in
this court."

78

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U.S.

cut, the court of the domicile,12 with respect to the powers
of a Connecticut association.

The court below was not at liberty to disregard the
fundamental law of the petitioner and turn a membership beneficiary certificate into an old line policy to be
construed and enforced according to the law of the forum.
The decision that the principle of ultra vires contracts
was to be applied as if the petitioner were a Missouri
old line life insurance company was erroneous in the light
of the decisions of this court which have uniformly held
that the rights of members of such associations are governed by the definition of the society's powers by the
courts of its domicile. 8
Third. The doctrine of estoppel was erroneously invoked to avoid the force and effect of the Nebraska judgment. The court below was of the opinion that, as the
petitioner had issued a "payments to cease after 20 years"
certificate, and as Bolin had fully performed on his part
by payihg all dies and assessments over the named period, the petitioner was estopped to plead its lack of power
to issue such a certificate. This again was on the theory
that whatever might be the nature of the petitioner's organization in Nebraska, for the purposes of this action it
must be treated as an old line insurance company in
Missouri. It was further held that no question of
estoppel was decided in the Trapp case.
As to the first of these positions, it need only be said
that the Trapp case was a class suit in which it was determined that the petitioner lacked power, under the law of
Nebraska, to issue such certificates. In such a suit the
Barber v. Hartford Life Ins. Co., 269 Mo. 21; 187 S. W. 867,
reversed Hartford Life Ins. Co. v. Barber, 245 U. S. 146; see, also,
Johnson v. Hartford Life Ins. Co., 166 Mo. App. 261.
"Hartford Life Ins. Co. v. Ibs, 237 U. S. 662; Hartford Life Ins.
Co v. Barber, 245 U. S. 146; Royal Arcanum v. Green, 237 U. S. 531;
Modern Woodmen v. Mixer, 267 U. S. 544.

HELVERING v. WINMILL.
Syllabus.

66

association represents all its members and stands in judgment for them, and even though the suit had a different
object than the instant one it is conclusive upon all the
members of the association with respect to all rights, questions, or facts therein determined.1 4
With respect to the second position, it appears from
the record that Trapp, in the suit in Nebraska, pleaded
that the association was estopped to deny its power to
issue the form of certificate in question, and. the opinion
of the Nebraska court, by reference to a case decided on
the same day, clearly indicates that the issue of estoppel
was considered and determined adversely to the plaintiff.
Fourth. Under our uniform holdings the court below
failed to give full faith and credit to the petitioner's
charter embodied in the statutes of Nebraska as interpreted by its highest court.'"
The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded
for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. WINMILL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 11.

Argued October 12, 1938.-Decided November 7, 1938.

1. Brokerage commissions paid or incurred in purchasing seeurities
during the taxable year by a taxpayer engaged in buying and
selling securities as a business, are not deductible as "compensation
for personal services," under § 23 (a), Revenue Act of 1932, but
are expenditures properly chargeable to capital account as constituting part of the cost of the securities purchased, deduction of
"Hartford Life Ins. Co. v. Ibs, supra, p. 673.
"Royal Arcanum v. Green, supra, pp. 540, 543, 546; Hartford
Life Ins. Co. v. Ibs, supra, p. 669; Hartford Life Ins. Co. v. Barber,
supra, p. 151; Modern Woodmen v. Mixer, supra, p. 551.

