FINCH & CO. v. McKITTRICK.
Opinion of the Court.

JOSEPH S. FINCH & CO.

ET

AL. V. McKITTRICK,

ATTORNEY GENERAL,

ET AL.*

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

No. 252.

Argued December 7, 1938.-Decided January 3, 1939.

A statute of Missouri makes it unlawful to import into that State,
or to purchase, receive, sell, or possess therein, any alcoholic liquor
manufactured in any State the laws of which discriminate against
importation of alcoholic liquor manufactured in Missouri. Held
not violative of the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution.
Following Indianapolis Brewing Co. v. Liquor Control Comm'n,
ante, p. 391. P. 397.
23 F. Supp. 244, affirmed.
APPEALS from decrees of a District Court of three judges
denying temporary and permanent injunctions and dismissing the bills in several suits, consolidated for hearing
and review, to enjoin the enforcement of a state liquor
law.

Mr. Thomas Kiernan, with whom Messrs. Joseph M.
Hartfield, Noel T. Dowling, James P. Aylward, and Terence M. O'Brien were on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Edward H. Miller, Assistant Attorney General of
Missouri, with whom Mr. Roy McKittrick, Attorney General, was on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The State of Missouri approved April 8, 1937,' an Act,
sometimes called the Missouri Anti-Discrimination Act,
*Together with No. 253, Ben Burk, Inc. v. McKittrick et al.;
No. 254, Joseph E. Seagram & Sons, Inc. et al. v. McKittrick et al.;
.No. 255, Hinrichs Distilled Products v. McKittrick et al.; and No.
256, Arrow Distilleries,Inc. v. McKittrick et al., all on appeals from
the District Court of the United States for the Western District of
Missouri.
'Laws of Missouri 1937, pp. 536-543.

396

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

sometimes the Missouri Retaliation Act. It provides in
§ 4:
"The transportation or importation into this state, or
the purchase, sale, receipt or possession herein, by any
licensee, of any alcoholic liquor manufactured in a 'state
in which discrimination exists' is hereby prohibited, and
it shall be unlawful for any licensee to transport or import
into this state, or to purchase, receive, possess or sell in
this state, any alcoholic liquor manufactured in any 'state
in which discrimination exists' as herein defined."
The statute defines what exactions, prohibitions and restrictions imposed by laws of the several states shall be
deemed "discriminations" imposed upon the importation
into the several states of alcoholic liquor manufactured
in Missouri; requires the Attorney General to determine
whether there exists therein any such discrimination; and,
if he find any such discriminatory law, to specify the same
in a certificate to be filed with the Supervisor of Liquor
Control. The Supervisor is directed to publish notice
of the certificates and to advise all licensees that it will
be unlawful to import into Missouri or to purchase,
receive, sell or possess in Missouri- any liquor manufactured in a discriminating state. Pursuant to these provisions, the Attorney General filed, in October, 1937,
certificates with the Supervisor declaring that the States
of Indiana, Pennsylvania, Michigan and Massachusetts
are "states in which discriminations existed" as defined by
the Missouri statute.
To enjoin enforcement of this provision of the Missouri
statute, these five suits were brought, in the federal court
for the western district of the state, against the Attorney
General and the Supervisor of Liquor Control. Each bill
charges that the provision violates the commerce clause
of the Federal Constitution and the equal protection

FINCH & CO. v. McKITTRICK.
395

Opinion of the Court.

clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.2 In four of the
cases the bill alleges that the plaintiff is a citizen of a
state other than Missouri; that it manufactures liquor in
one of the states certified as "discriminating"; that it
holds a non-resident Missouri permit under which it imports and sells in Missouri a part of its products; and that
it would be irreparably injured if the provision of the
Missouri statutes were enforced. The fifth case differs
only in that the bill alleges that the plaintiff is a citizen
of Missouri engaged there in the rectifying and bottling
business for which it imports liquor manufactured in a
state certified as "discriminating." As both a temporary
and a permanent injunction was sought in each case, each
was assigned for hearing before a three-judge court. In
each th6 defendants moved to dismiss the bill. Later,
the cases were consolidated for hearing and review; and
it was agreed that when the court heard the application
for the temporary injunction it should finally determine
the causes. The District Court denied the applications
for a temporary and a permanent injunction and dismissed the bill in each case. 23 F. Supp. 244. But the
temporary restraining orders issued upon the filing of the
bills were continued until the final determination of the
appeals to this Court.
The claim of unconstitutionality is rested, in this
Court, substantially on the contention that the statute
violates the commerce clause.' It is urged that the Missouri law does not relate to protection of the health,
safety and morality, or the promotion of their social wel'The bill also alleged that the provision violated the due process
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, the contract clause and the

privileges and immunities clause.
'The orguments in appellant's brief are confined to the commerce
clause. The statement of points to be relied upon includes all the
contentions of the bill.

398

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

305 U. S.

fare, but is merely an economic weapon of retaliation;
and that, hence, the Twenty-first Amendment should not
be interpreted as granting power to enact it. Since that
amendment, the right of a State to prohibit or regulate
the importation of intoxicating liquor is not limited by
the commerce clause. As was said in State Board of
Equalization v. Young's Market Co., 299 U. S. 59, 62,
"The words used are apt to confer upon the State the
power to forbid all importations which do not comply
with the conditions which it prescribes." To limit the
power of the states as urged "would involve not a construction of the Amendment, but a rewriting of it." See
also Mahoney v. Joseph riner Corp., 304 U. S. 401; Indianapolis Brewing Co. v. Liquor Control Comm'n, ante,
p. 391.

Affirmed.
UNITED STATES v. CONTINENTAL NATIONAL
BANK & TRUST CO., TRUSTEE, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 22. Argued December 5, 1938.-Decided January 3, 1939.
1. Under the Revenue Act of 1926, suit upon a deficiency assessment must be begun within six years after the assessment.
§ 278 (d). P. 403.
2. Under the Revenue Act of 1926, the time for bringing suit, in
the absence of assessment, to enforce liability of a transferee of
the taxpayer's property is limited to six years, made up of five
years after return, allowed for assessment against taxpayer,
§ 277 (a), and one year thereafter for assessment against transferee. § 280 (b) (1). Id.
3. A suit against transferees of a transferee- of property of a delinquent taxpayer, which is otherwise barred, can not be sustained as timely under §§ 280 and 278 (d) of the Revenue Act of
1926, because brought within six years of the making of an assessment against the first transferee. P. 404.

