OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

305 U. S.

previously disposed of by the government. Its terms
were restricted to the Chippewa reservations then existing
(1889) in Minnesota. None of the subsequent Acts, relating to Indian affairs, upon which appellants rely I
expanded the provisions of the 1889 Act so as to include
Congressional treatment of the transactions made the
basis of this second claim. Since this second claim did
not arise from or grow out of the 1889 Act or subsequent
Acts, the Court of Claims properly dismissed for want
of jurisdiction.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
LYON v. MUTUAL BENEFIT HEALTH &
ACCIDENT ASSN.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 189.

Submitted December 12, 1938.-Decided January 3, 1939.

1. A health and accident policy (governed by the law of Arkansas),
issued and effective December 31, 1926, and reciting and providing that it is issued "in consideration of . . .the payment in
advance of $74.00 the first year" and that "the payment in advance of ... $16.00 quarterly thereafter, beginning with April
1, 1927, is required to keep this policy in continuous effect,"construed as meaning and intending that the payment in advance
of $74.00 would keep the policy in force until December 31, 1927,
and that payment of $16.00 April 1, 1927, would extend the policy
a quarterly period beyond December 31, 1927, and that successive payments of $16.00 at the beginning -of each quarter following the quarter beginning April 1, 1927, would extend the policy
correspondingly.. P. 488.
2. Delivery of the policy containing the recital that it "is issued in
consideration of . . .the payment in advance of $74.00" established prima facie the fact of advance payment of that amount.
Id.
1132 Stat. 400 (1902); 35 Stat. 268 (1908).

LYON v. MUTUAL BENEFIT ASSN.
484

485

Opinion of the Court.

3. Evidence supplementing this inference and showing payment of
premiums, was not incompetent as an attempt to alter the terms
of the policy but was admissible in proof of performance. P. 489.
4. In a suit to recover upon a contract of insurance payable upon
the death of the insured, held that there was competent and substantial evidence to show that payments had been made to the
insurer in sufficient amount to keep the policy in force beyond the
quarterly premium payment period in which the death occurred;
that the evidence on this point supported the verdict and judgment of the District Court for the plaintiff; and that reversal
of the judgment by the Circuit Court of Appeals was erroneous.
P. 489.
5. In a suit in Arkansas upon an Arkansas insurance policy, federal
jurisdiction resting upon diversity of citizenship, the District
Court, at the close of the evidence and upon the request of the
defendant for a peremptory instruction, denied the request and
directed a verdict for the plaintiff. There was ample evidence
to justify the verdict. Held, that the court, consistently with the
Conformity Act, followed the Arkansas procedural rule governing
the effect of a request for a peremptory instruction, and that that
rule did not deprive the defendant of any constitutional right.
P. 490.
95 F. 2d 528, reversed.

CERTImOAm,

post, p. 583, to review a judgment reversing

a judgment for the petitioner in an action to recover upon
a policy of insurance.
Mr. John W. .Nance submitted for petitioner.
Messrs. Thomas B. Pryor and Thomas B. Pryor, Jr.
submitted for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.
Petitioner, (plaintiff below) brought suit as beneficiary in the District Court against respondent (defendant
below) on a health and accident policy issued by respondent in 1926 to petitioner's husband. Plaintiff alleged that the insured was accidentally killed July 26,
1934, while the policy was in full force and effect insuring against death resulting from accidental causes. At

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

the conclusion of plaintiff's evidence, defendant declined
to offer any evidence and did no more than move for a
peremptory instruction. Defendant's motion was based
upon the contentions that (1) the policy was not in effect
when insured was killed because defendant had exercised
an option granted it by the policy to reject the quarterly
premium due July 1, 1934; (2) that the "premium receipts themselves show that the policy terminated on the
first day of July, 1934, prior to the time this loss occurred." Defendant's motion for peremptory instruction
was denied, defendant excepted, and the court directed
the jury to return a verdict for plaintiff. Defendant's
exception was noted, the jury rendered verdict for plaintiff, and the court entered judgment upon the verdict.
The Court of Appeals reversed, 1 holding that the policy
was term insurance and reserved to defendant the right
to reject any quarterly premium on the due date, that
defendant had properly exercised its option in rejecting
the quarterly premium due July 1, 1934, and that the
policy was, therefore, terminated prior to insured's death.
The court further held that no competent evidence had
sustained plaintiff's allegations that the required premiums had been paid. We granted certiorari.2
In the view we take of the case, it is unnecessary to
consider plaintiff's contention that the Court of Appeals
erred in holding that defendant had the option to cancel
the policy upon the due date of any quarterly premium.
We find that there was competent and substantial evidence to sustain plaintiff's allegation that insured had
paid premiums sufficient to keep the policy in effect up
to and including the date of insured's death.
The evidence showed that:
The policy sued on was issued December 31, 1926;
after advance payment of $74.00 for the first year's pre' 95 F. 2d 528.
'Post, p. 583; cf. Ruhlin v. New York Life Ins. Co., 304 U. S. 202,
206.

LYON v. MUTUAL BENEFIT ASSN.
484

Opinion of the Court.

mium, the policy was delivered to insured; thereafter,
all quarterly premiums were paid to the defendant's
local treasurer located at Rogers, Arkansas (where the
policy was sold and delivered) up to and including the
quarterly premium due January 1, 1934; these premiums
were usually paid in advance, but not always; before
April 1, 1934, plaintiff as agent for the insured went to
the office of the local treasurer at whose office she had
paid all the other premiums; he could not be found at
the office; a young girl in the office suggested that the
payment be sent to Little Rock; plaintiff mailed that
payment to Little Rock and received a receipt dated
March 30, 1934; plaintiff had not then received, and
never did receive any notice from the company that it
had moved its office or changed its method of collecting
premiums; July 1, 1934, when the next premium was
due she went to the local treasurer's office and found it
closed; diligent search for him disclosed that not only
had his office been closed, but he had moved from the
house in which he had formerly resided; continuing to
search for the treasurer, she finally found him several
days later early in the morning entering a car in front
of his office; he declined to accept the premium, told
her to send it to Little Rock, and informed her that she
should have received a notice from the company to that
effect; that day, July 6, she bought a money order, "addressed the envelope just to the company at Little
Rock" and mailed it; July 13, the Little Rock office of
the company wrote her that it could not accept the payment because the Omaha home office had not sent an official receipt for this policy payment; in that letter and
in a subsequent communication of July 26, the Little
Rock office offered to reinstate the policy but with restricted benefits; on July 26, however, the insured was
killed by accidental means within the terms of the policy.
The defendant offered no evidence whatsoever.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

First. The policy provides as to premium payments
that "this policy is issued in consideration of . . . the
payment in advance of $74.00 the first year, and the
payment in advance of ... $16.00 quarterly thereafter,
beginning with April 1, 1927, is required to keep this
policy in continuous effect." This language is clear and
nothing elsewhere in the policy alters its meaning. True,
the printed application signed by deceased, December
27, 1926, and upon which the policy was issued four days
later, contains the printed question, "What is the premium?" and a typewritten answer, "$16.00 quarterly."
However, this is not inconsistent with the provision of
the policy for the payment of $74.00 in advance and
$16.00 quarterly premiums. The provision for payment
in advance of $74.00 the first year required payment before the date the policy took effect, which according to
the policy was the date of issue. Under the language of
this provision actual payment of a year's premium in
advance purchased insurance for a year. The dates for
further payments to extend the policy beyond a year
could be and were fixed by the policy contract. Payment for the first year carried the policy to December 31,
1927, and the first quarterly payment, due by the policy's
terms April 1, 1927 and paid in advance of that date,
extended the policy another quarter beyond December
31, 1927. Each succeeding quarterly payment carried
the policy a corresponding three months. The questions
before the trial court were whether the $74.00 first payment was actually made, and whether thereafter quarterly payments were made in an amount sufficient to
carry the policy from the end of the first year up to and
including the quarterly period in which death of insured
occurred.
Since the policy recites that "this policy is issued in
consideration of . . . the payment in advance of $74.00
the first year . . .," delivery of the policy prima facie

LYON v. MUTUAL BENEFIT ASSN.
484

489

Opinion of the Court.

established the fact of the advance payment of that
amount.' This evidence was reinforced by plaintiff's
testimony that the $74.00 was so paid. Defendant made
no objection to this testimony. On cross-examination
by defendant, plaintiff amplified her testimony as to why
she paid the quarterly premium in April, 1927, after having already paid the premium for a whole year before
the policy was delivered. She explained that this was
because defendant's representative told her and the insured that "there were no days of grace included in the
policy, but if we paid a year's premium in advance that
would take the place of these days of grace."
Although defendant did not object to plaintiff's testimony of payment, and evoked explanation of it on crossexamination, the Court of Appeals, without any reference
to governing State law,4 concluded that the evidence was
incompetent. That court believed this evidence represented an effort to alter the terms of the written policy
contract by an oral agreement violating the provisions
that "This policy ... contains the entire contract of insurance," and "No agent has authority to change this
policy or to waive any of its provisions." But this evidence of payment of premiums as required by the policy,
did not affect the terms of the written contract. It was
offered to prove the discharge of the insured's obligation
under the contract. The evidence was material to establish the fact of payment. No statutes of Arkansas or
decisions of the highest court of that State ' have been'
3 Washington Fidelity Nat. Ins. Co. v. Anderson, 187 Ark. 974,
976; 63 S. W. 2d 535; National Equity Life Ins. Co. v. Parker, 190
Ark. 642, 644; 80 S. W. 2d 630; cf. Splawn v. Martin,'17 Ark. 146,
153.

4 See

28 U. S. C., ยง 724.

Cf. D'Wolf v. Rabaud, 1 Pet. 476, 502; Wilcox v. Hunt, 13 Pet. 378,
379; Nashua Savings Bank v. Anglo-American Co., 189 U. S. 221,
228; cf. Erie R.Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U. S. 64.
5 Cf. Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, supra.

490

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

pointed out which would make such relevant evidence
incompetent.' The $74.00 payment for the first year,
together with quarterly payments undisputedly made
through April 1, 1934, carried the policy to January 1,
1935. We, therefore, find it unnecessary to consider
whether the six days delay in paying the July 1, 1934
premium was excused by reason of attendant circumstances.
Second. The Conformity Act requires that "The
practice, pleadings, and forms and modes of proceeding
in civil causes . . . in the district courts, shall conform,
as near as may be, to the practice, pleadings, and forms
and modes of proceeding existing at the time in lke
causes in the courts of record of the State within which
such district courts are held, any rule of court to the
contrary notwithstanding." '
. Our attention has not been directed to any more
authoritative Arkansas ruling governing the procedural
effect of a request for a peremptory instruction without
more, than the decision of the Supreme Court of Arkansas in A. B. Smith Lumber Co. v. Portis Bros., 140
Ark. 356; 215 S.W. 590. There the Court said (at 358,
359, 360): "The cause ... proceeded to a hearing upon
the pleadings and evidence. When the evidence was concluded, appellant requested a peremptory instruction, and
no other. The court refused the instruction over the
objection of appellant, and, on its own motion, instructed
the jury to return a verdict in favor of appellees . . .
over the objection and exception of appellant. . . . and
the court, on its own motion, gave a peremptory instruction for appellee. The request for a peremptory
6 Cf. Splawn v. Martin, supra; Vaugine v. Taylor, 18 Ark. 65, 79;
Borden v. Peay, 20 Ark. 293, 306; Hill v. First National Bank, 129
Ark. 265, 269; 195 S. W. 678; Lay v. Gaines, 130 Ark. 167, 170;

196 S. W. 919.
128 U. S. C., ยง 724.

LYON v. MUTUAL BENEFIT ASSN.
484

Opinion of the Court.

instruction by appellant and the giving of the peremptory
instruction by the court for the adverse party was tantamount to submitting the case to the court sitting as
a jury, and the court's finding became a verdict as much
so as if it had been rendered by a jury upon the issues
and evidence. . . . So the question presented by this
record is not whether there was sufficient evidence in the
record to warrant the court in sending the case to the
jury upon the issue of whether or not the undertaking
was collateral, but the question is, Was there any legal
evidence to support the finding of the court that the
undertaking was original?"
This rule of procedure closely approaches that frequently approved by this Court on the same subject, to
the effect that "'where both parties request a peremptory
instruction and do nothing more they thereby assume
the facts to be undisputed and, in effect, submit to the
trial judge the determination of the inferences proper
to be drawn therefrom'. And upon review, a finding of
fact by the trial court under such circumstances must
stand if the record discloses substantial evidence to support it." 8
Here, there was ample evidence upon which to justify
the verdict. Defendant obviously proceeded-after the
evidence was closed-upon the belief that the facts and all
the inferences to be drawn therefrom raised only a question of law for the court-not one of fact for the jury;
and plaintiff acquiesced. Neither defendant nor plaintiff
did anything to indicate a desire or belief that the jury
should pass upon any facts. Thus, the District Court
sitting in Arkansas, having jurisdiction only by reason of
diversity of citizenship and trying a suit involving an
Arkansas contract, followed the procedural rule announced by the highest court of that State.
8

Williams v. Vreeland, 250 U. S. 295, 298; Aetna. I=. Co. v. Ken-

nedy, 301 U. S. 389, 393.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BUTLER, J.,

dissenting.

305 U. S.

While litigants in federal courts cannot-by rules of
procedure--be deprived ot: fundamental -rights guaranteed by the Constitution and laws of the United States,
the local Arkansas rule followed by the District Court
does not result in such deprivation. In effect, that local
rule is practically identical with the federal rule which
treats a request by both parties for peremptory instructions without more as a submission of issues of fact to
the court. It is essential that the right to trial by jury
be scrupulously safeguarded, and a state rule of prbcedure
entrenching upon this right would not require observance
by federal courts.' However, this Arkansas procedural
rule-so closely approximating the federal rule-does not
amount to a prohibited invasion of federal rights.
Since the District Court followed the Arkansas procedural
rule, and the verdict and judgment were supported by
competent and substantial evidence, it follows that the
Court of Appeals erroneously reversed the District
Court's judgment. The judgment of the Court of Appeals is, therefore, reversed and that of the District
Court is affirmed.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS did not participate in the consideration or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER:

MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS and I are unable to accept
the opinion or to agree with the judgment of the court
just announced.
We are of opinion that the judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals should be reversed, and that, for the
reasons given in the separate opinion of Circuit Judge
Stone, 95 F. 2d 528, 534, the case should be remanded to
the District Court for proceedings in accordance with that
opinion.
9 Cf. Davis v. Wechsler, 263 U. S. 22.

