OCTOBER TERM, 1938.

354

Syllabus.

305 U. S.

stances is enough to satisfy any reasonable demand for
specialized training. It appears that never before has a
negro applied for admission to the Law School and none
has ever asked that Lincoln University provide legal
instruction.
The problem presented obviously is a difficult and highly practical one. A fair effort to solve it has been made
by offering adequate opportunity for study when-sought
in good faith. The State should not be unduly hampered
through theorization inadequately restrained by experience.
This proceeding commenced in April, 1936. Petitioner
then twenty-four years old asked mandamus to compel
his admission to the University in September, 1936, notwithstanding plain legislative inhibition. Mandamus is
not a writ of right but is granted only in the court's discretion upon consideration of all the circumstances.
Duncan Townsite Co. v. Lane, 245 U. S. 308, 311; United
States ex rel. Arant v. Lane, 249 U. S. 367, 371.
The Supreme Court of Missouri did not consider the
propriety of granting the writ under the theory of the law
now accepted here. That, of course, will be matter open
for its consideration upon return of the cause.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER concurs in

the above views.

EX PARTE CENTURY INDEMNITY CO.
No.

-,

Original.

Decided December 12, 1938.

1. Upon a rule to show cause why a writ of mandamus should not
issue requiring judges of the Circuit Court of Appeals to consider
certain assignments of error which that court had declined to consider upon a ground which this Court, upon review, adjudged insufficient, it is an answer that another and sufficient ground for
rejecting the assignments is revealed by the record. P. 355.

EX PARTE CENTURY CO.
354

Opinion of the Court.

2. Papers purporting to be proposed findings of fact and conclusions
of law, which are contained in the transcript but not in the bill
of exceptions, are not properly authenticated. P. 356.
Rule discharged.

Mr. Jewel Alexander was on a brief for petitioner.
Mr. Joe G. Sweet was on a brief for G. Nelson, appellee
below.
PER CURIAM.

On an appeal from a judgment for the plaintiff in an
action at law, in which a jury was waived, the Circuit
Court of Appeals refused to consider certain assignments
of error upon the ground that they related to findings
requested by the defendant after the trial had been concluded. The judgment was affirmed, 90 F. 2d 644, and
certiorari was granted. We were unable to accept the
conclusion of the Circuit Court of Appeals that when the
trial court ordered "that judgment be entered for plaintiff, with interest and costs, upon findings of fact and
conclusions of law to be presented," it was thereafter "too
late adequately to present special findings of fact." It
was not necessary to treat the first order for judgment as
ending "the progress of the trial." 28 U. S. C. 875. The
qualifying words in the order were appropriate to suggest a "reservation of opportunity for further action."
Accordingly, the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals
was reversed and the cause was remanded to that court
for further proceedings in conformity with the opinion of
this Court. Century Indemnity Co. v. Nelson, 303 U. S.
213.
On the later hearing, the Circuit Court of Appeals
found another ground for its action,-a ground not dealt
with in its former ruling and not presented by the petition for certiorari. That was that defendant's proposed

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

findings were "not incorporated in the bill of exceptions,
either directly or by reference." The Circuit Court of
Appeals refused to consider the assignments of error
addressed to the rejection of these findings and again
affirmed the judgment. 96 F. 2d 679.
On application of the defendant, this Court issued a
rule directing the judges of the Circuit Court of Appeals
to show cause why the judgment should not be vacated
and the court be required to consider the assignments of
error. The judges have made return to the rule.
While it appears from the bill of exceptions that the
defendant "served and lodged its proposed findings of
fact and conclusions of law," and the transcript contains
a paper described as defendant's proposed findings of fact
and conclusions of law, that paper is not included in the
bill of exceptions and hence is not properly authenticated.
28 U. S. C. 875. Insurance Company v. Folsom, 18 Wall.
237, 249; McLeod v. United States, 67 F. 2d 740.
In view of that defect, we cannot direct the Circuit
Court of Appeals to consider the assignments of error and
the rule to show cause must be discharged.
Rule discharged.

