GUARANTY TRUST CO. v. VIRGINIA.
Syllabus.

5

wiser, less expensive and less burdensome regulation? If
a court in this case and under this bill has this power, the
final determination of the wisdom and choice of legislative policy has passed from legislatures--elected by and
I believe, in
responsible to the people-to the courts.'
the language of the Powell case, supra, that since all
that has been "said of this legislation is that it is unwise,
or unnecessarily oppressive to those" canning citrus products, that petitioners' "appeal must be to the legislature,
. . . not to the judiciary." I would affirm.
GUARANTY TRUST CO., EXECUTOR, v.
VIRGINIA.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF VIRGINIA.

No. 9.

Argued October 11, 12, 1938.-Decided November 7, 1938.

1. The question whether a state statute providing for taxation of
trust income to the trustees when distribution by them is discretionary, and to the beneficiary when it is not, would operate to
deny equal protection if income of a discretionary trust were to be
taxed under it first to the trustee and again to the beneficiary
while income from ordinary trusts was taxed only once, does not
arise in a case where there has been but one tax imposed under
the statute,-the tax on the beneficiary-and when there is no
ground to suppose that the statute will be so construed and applied
by the state authorities as to result in double taxation. P. 23.
2. Virginia and New York both have laws taxing trust income to
the trustee when distribution is discretionary, but to the beneficiary
when it is not. Held that taxation of a citizen and resident of
Virginia upon income received there from a trust established and
"With

reference to a state law regulating labels and containers for

condensed milk, this Court said, "If the character or effect of the
article as intended to be used 'be debatable, the legislature is entitled
to its own judgment, and that judgment is not to be superseded by
the verdict of a jury,' or, we may add, by the personal opinion of
judges, 'upon the issue which the legislature has decided.'" Hebe Co.
v. Shaw, 248 U. S. 297, 303.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

administered in New York was not violative of the due process
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, although such income came
from income of the trust which was taxed to the trustees by New
York. P. 23.
169 Va. 414; 193 S. E. 534, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 303 U. S. 632, to review .the affirmance of
a judgment denying relief in an action to set aside income
tax assessments and to recover the taxes, theretofore paid
under protest.

Mr. James R. Caskie for petitioner.
Mr. Abram P. Staples, Attorney General of Virginia,
with whom Mr. W. W. Martin, Assistant Attorney General, was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Mrs. Mary T. Ryan, while resident and citizen of Virginia in 1930, 1931 and 1932, was beneficiary of a trust
set up under the will of her husband, Thomas F. Ryan,
who died when a citizen of New York in 1928. The will
was probated in New York; the trustees qualified there,
took over the assets and have kept them there. The trust
has been administered and accounts settled under the
laws of that state.
The will divided the estate into fifty-four parts and directed payment of the income therefrom to designated
beneficiaries. These are the provisions presently important"Twelve (12) of said equal parts to said Trustees
in trust to receive the income therefrom, and to pay
over such part of said income to my dear wife, Mary
T. Ryan, as they in their sole discretion may determine to be necessary and proper for her care, support and comfort during her life, in such installments
and at such intervals as they in their sole discretion
may determine."

GUARANTY TRUST CO. v. VIRGINIA.
19

Opinion of the Court.

The will further provided that the trustees should
"divide any surplus income from said twelve parts
not paid to my wife as aforesaid, into forty-two
equal portions, and to pay such surplus income in
equal quarterly payments as near as may be" to certain distributees as designated in said will, and that
upon the death of the said wife the principal amount
of the said twelve equal parts should be divided and
distributed to certain designated distributees, as set
out in said will.
The New York and Virginia statutes laying taxes upon
incomes from trusts are substantially alike. They require
trustees to report income received and where the trust is
discretionary to pay the amount assessed upon the entire
income; if the trust is an ordinary one each beneficiary is
assessed upon the amount received by him.
For 1930, 1931 and 1932, New York in one or both of
these ways received taxes upon the entire income of the
trust set up under the will. Exercising their discretion,
after satisfying the taxes, the trustees paid to Mrs. Ryan
considerable sums out of the income, from twelve fiftyfourths of the estate-in all approximately $300,000. For
the same years, Virginia assessed ordinary state income
taxes against her on account of the sums so received.
They were paid; and this proceeding was begun in the
circuit court of Nelson County to recover them. It sustained the tax, and the highest court of the state affirmed
the judgment. The matter comes here by certiorari
granted upon the following statementThis petition presents the issue as to whether the
State of Virginia has the right, under the provisions
of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution
of the United States, to assess an income tax on income received by the said Mary T. Ryan for the years
in question, when the identical income in the hands
of her Trustees had been assessed with income taxes
by the State of New York, and which said taxes had

22

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

been paid there, thus imposing two State taxes on
the same income.
Counsel for petitioner submitsThe same income was subjected to taxation by two
states. New York unquestionably had the right to exact
the tax upon the income of the trust, 'and thereby Virginia was inhibited. The provisions of the Fourteenth
Amendment protect against such taxation by two states
on the same income. Here, both the Equal Protection
and the Due Process clauses forbid the challenged exactment.
The claim that equal protection has been denied seems
to rest upon an assumed literal construction of the Virginia statute which would require income from discretionary trusts to be taxed against both trustee and beneficiary, while only one tax (against the beneficiary)
would fall upon income from ordinary trusts.
We must, of course, deal with rights here actually involved. The state has made one assessment against a
resident beneficiary because of income received within
her jurisdiction and her courts have approved. They
have not interpreted her statutes according to the petitioner's assumption.
The right to recognize a distinction between ordinary
and discretionary trusts and thus insure collection of taxes
upon the entire income actually received from the latter
seems clear enough.
Has there been denial of Due ProcessThe insistence is that the challenged assessment was
upon the identical income already rightly taxed by New
York; that, under numerous decisions by us, two or more
states may not tax the same subject; this would amount
to double taxation and infringe the Due Process clause.
To support this proposition the cases noted in the margin 1 are cited.
' Union Refrigerator Co. v. Kentucky, 199 U. S. 194, Frick v. Pennsylvania, 268 U. S. 473, Safe Deposit & Trust Co. v. Virginia, 280 U. S.

COLORADO BANK v. COMM'R.
19

Opinion of the Court.

Those cases go upon the theory that the taxing power
of a state is restricted to her confines and may not be
exercised in respect of subjects beyond them. Here, the
thing taxed was receipt of income within Virginia by a
citizen residing there. The mere fact that another state
lawfully taxed funds from which the payments were made
did not necessarily destroy Virginia's right to tax somethiig done within her borderS. After much discussion
the applicable doctrine was expounded and applied in
Lawrence v. State Tax Comm'n, 286 U. S. 276, and New
York ex rel. Cohn v. Graves, 300 U. S. 308. The attempt
to draw a controlling distinction between them and the
present cause, we think, has not been successful.
The challenged judgment must be
Affirmed.

COLORADO NATIONAL BANK

ET AL.,

EXECUTORS,

v. COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 30. Argued October 21, 1938.--Decided November 7, 1938.
1. Whether a transfer was in contemplation of death held a question
of fact as to which the decision of the Board of Tax Appeals,
supported by -substantial evidence, was conclusive. P. 29.
There was evidence that the purpose of the transfer was to
enable the donor to speculate upon the stock market for the remainder of his life more actively than he had in the past without
fear that the part of his fortune transferred might be lost.
2. As to the meaning of the term "in contemplation of death," the
Court adheres to what was said in United States v. Wells, 283 U. S.
102. P. 30.
83, Farmers Loan & Trust Co. v. Minnesota, 280 U. S. 204, Baldwin
v. Missouri, 281 U. S. 586, Beidler v South Carolina Tax Comm'n,
282 U. S. 1, First National Bank v. Maine, 284 U. S. 312, Senior v.
Braden, 295 U. S. 422.

