SCHRIBER CO. v. CLEVELAND TRUST CO.

47

Syllabus.

SCHRIBER-SCHROTH CO. v. CLEVELAND

TRUST CO.

ET AL.*

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 3. Argued October 18, 19, 1938.-Decided November 7, 1938.
1. Where it is improbable, notwithstanding the doubtful validity of
a patent, that conflict of decision respecting its validity will arise
in different circuits, because of the concentration in one circuit of
the industry in which the patented devices are used, there is reason for granting certiorari to review a decision in that circuit
sustaining it. P. 50.
2. A patent does not extend beyond the invention described and
explained as the statute requires; it can not be enlarged by claims
in the patent not supported by the description. P. 57.
3. The application for a patent can not be broadened by amendment
so as to embrace an invention not described in the application as
filed, at least when adverse rights have intervened. Powers-Kennedy Co. v. Concrete Co., 282 U. S. 175; Permutit Co. v. Graver
Corporation, 284 U. S. 52. Id.
4. Amendments to Patent No. 1,815,733, to Gulick, for a combination
in the structure of pistons of internal combustion engines for automobiles, designed to prevent undue thermal expansion of the
pistons when in operation, were unlawfully added. P. 51.
5. In this combination, the head and skirt of the piston, separated
by an air space, are connected and held in proper relation to. each
other by two webs which extend longitudinally within the skirt
and which, pierced at right angles for wrist-pin bearings, support
the piston pin bosses. The skirt is longitudinally split in order to
minimize the effects of thermal expansion. The Circuit Court of
Appeals regarded lateral flexibility of the webs as an essential element of the invention. The original application, however, contained no reference in terms to laterally flexible webs or to the
function of the webs in securing flexibility of the skirt, but described the webs as "extremely rigid" and stated that an object of
the invention was "to rigidly support the piston pin bosses from
*Together with No. 4, Aberdeen Motor Supply Co. v. Cleveland

Trust Co. et al., and No. 5, F. E. Rowe Sales Co. v. Cleveland Trust
Co. et al., also on writs of certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Sixth Circuit.

48

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Statement of the Case.

305 U. S.

the piston walls," and that the arrangement provided "a particularly strong support for the bosses." The webs, as shown by the
drawings, conformed to these specifications, and neither drawings
nor specifications gave dimensions showing thickness or other proportions of the webs which might suggest a flexible structure.
Held:
(1) That, after a similar piston with the element of flexible webs
had come into commercial use and another had been described in
an application for patent, the patentee could not add that element
to his application by amendment. P. 55.
(2) Amendments to that end could not be supported as being
but clarifications of the application as filed. P. 57.
The contention that lateral flexibility was implied in the original
description as an inherent property of the metal composing the
web, and was disclosed by the drawings, is rejected.
Inherent flexibility of the web in cobperation with the slit skirt
can not be depended upon to produce the desired effect in rendering the skirt yieldable in response to cylinder wall pressure. That
depends upon design of the web, with correct proportioning of
the different parts as to location and thickness to produce lateral
flexibility. Inherent rigidity, made more effective by design of the
webs, would correspondingly curtail the desired effect.
6. Decisions of the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia
and the Court of Customs fnd Patent Appeals sustaining the
Gulick amendments are accorded weight but are not controlling in
this Court when the validity of the amendments is involved in an
infringement case. P. 59.
7. As flexible webs are neither described in the specifications nor
mentioned in the claims of the patent for a like combination to
Maynard, No. 1,655,968, they can be imported into them only by
reference tO the drawings or by inference from the inherent flexibility of the structure, which, as in the case of Gulick, are insufficient to accomplish the result. P. 60.
92 F. 2d 330, reversed.

to review the reversal of a
decree holding certain patent claims invalid in suits for
CERTIORARI, 304 U. S. 587,

infringement. Other patents, held invalid by the District
Court, but not passed upon by the court below, were not

involved in this review.

SCHRIBER CO. v. CLEVELAND" TRUST CO.

49

Opinion of the Court.

47

Messrs. Thomas G. Haight and John H. Bruninga,with
whom Mr. John H. Sutherland was on the brief, . for
petitioners.
Messrs. Arthur C. Denison and F. 0. Richey, with
whom Mr. Wm. C. McCoy was on the brief, for
respondents.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.*

The principal question for decision is whether the court
below rightly sustained the validity of two patents by
including in the combination constituting the alleged invention of each an element which was not in terms described in one, and the description of which in the other
was added only by amendment to the application after it
was filed.
Respondent, the Cleveland Trust Company, is the assignee in trust of some eighty patents relating to pistons
of the type employed in internal combustion engines for
automobiles, under a pooling agreement to which an automobile manufacturer and a number of manufacturers of
pistons are parties. It brought the present suits in the
District Court for Northern Ohio to enjoin infringement
of five of the assigned patents. The case was tried
before a special master who, upon the basis of
elaborate findings, held that the Gulick patent, No.
1,815,733, applied for November 30, 1917 and allowed July 31, 1931, was invalid for want of invention
and because of the addition to the application by amendment in 1922 of a new element of the alleged invention.
In reaching this conclusion he relied on this Court's decisions in Powers-Kennedy Corp. v. Concrete Co., 282
* Opinion reported as amended by Order of December 12, 1938,

post, p. 573.
105537 °

39-

4

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

U. S. 175 and Permutit Co. v. Graver Corporation,284
U. S. 52, as inconsistent with the result of interference
proceedings in which Gulick's amendments were sustained,
Long v. Gulick, 17 F. 2d 686, Hartog v. Long, 47 F. 2d
369. The master also held that the Maynard patent No.
1,655,968, applied for January 3, 1921 and allowed January 10, 1928, was invalid for want of invention and for
failure to describe and claim the alleged invention. He
held invalid upon various grounds the other patents,
which are not presently involved.
The District Court adopted the findings and conclusions of the master and gave its decree for petitioners.
The Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit reversed, as
to the Gulick and Maynard patents only, holding that
they were valid and infringed. 92 F. 2d 330.' As the
court regarded the claims which it sustained as basic and
thought that a full recovery could be had by respondent
under them, it did not pass upon the validity of the other
patents or decide other questions involved in the appeal.
Petition for certiorari raising the question, among
others, whether the Court of Appeals had erred in holding patentable a combination including one element not
described in the original application for the Gulick patent
and later added to it by amendment, and not described
at all in the Maynard patent, was at first denied, there
being no conflict of decision. 303 U. S. 639. We later
granted certiorari, 304 U. S. 587, on a petition for rehearing showing that, notwithstanding the doubtful validity
of the patents, litigation elsewhere with a resulting conflict of decision was improbable because of the concentration of the automobile industry in the sixth circuit.
Cf. Paramount Publix Corp. v. American Tri-Ergon
Corp., 294 U. S. 464; Altoona Publix Theatres v. American Tri-Ergon Corp., 294 U. S. 477.
decree sustained Gulick's claims numbered 1, 11, 12, 13, 15,
iS, 30 and 33, and Maynard's claims numbered 1, 6 and 8.
1 The

SCHRIBER CO. v. CLEVELAND TRUST CO.
47

51

Opinion of the Court.

It is important for the proper functioning of the piston
in a gas engine that it should fit the explosion chamber
closely so as to conserve power, prevent the passage of
lubricating oil around the piston into the chamber, and
insure the smooth and noiseless movement of the piston
within the cylinder. In designing gas engines for automobiles and other purposes requiring a high speed piston
reciprocation with the accompanying development of
high temperature in the explosion chamber, it is desirable
to avoid thermal expansion of the close fitting piston,
which will result in loss of power and possible injury to
the mechanism through increased friction, which may
cause the piston to seize or stick. The danger of undue
expansion is increased when, as is advantageous in automobile engines, the piston is of aluminum, which has a
higher coefficient of expansion than the iron or steel
chamber within which the piston moves.
Both the Gulick and Maynard patents are for combinations in the structure of a piston for gas engines designed
to prevent or restrict undue expansion of the piston when
in operation. The Gulick patent exhibits a piston in
which the ring-carrying head is separated by an air space
at its periphery from the cylindrically shaped skirt or
guide wall, whose surface engages the inner surface of
the cylinder. The piston head and skirt are connected by
two "webs" or walls extending longitudinally through
the interior of the skirt. The webs are pierced at right
angles for wrist pin bearings, and support, at the bearings, piston pin bosses formed with integral flanges extending laterally from their respective bosses to form the
webs, which in turn are integrally connected on either
side with the interior wall of the lower part of the skirt
and at their ends With the piston head. The skirt is longitudinally split on one side at a point in its circumference approximately midway between the pin bosses, with
the edges of the skirt formed by the split separated so as

52

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

to admit of the free movement of the edges toward each
other.
The structure is thus designed to minimize the expansion resulting from high temperatures developed in the
chamber and to avoid the effects of thermal expansion of
the skirt. The webs, which afford at the wrist pin bearings the means for connecting the piston-rod with the
piston, serve to hold the head and skirt in proper relation to each other so that the air space between them retards flow of heat from the head to the skirt, undue
expansion of the skirt, and the consequent increase of friction between piston and enveloping cylinder. Undue expansion of the piston is said by the patent's specifications
to be avoided by the separation of the skirt by the longitudinal split in order to admit of unrestrained movement of the edges of the skirt toward each other. Elsewhere they state that "when the longitudinal split is used,
as shown, the web structure has sufficient lateral flexibility to permit..the split to close more or less under the
action of the expansion forces incident to the heating of
the piston'"
The elements of the combination as enumerated in
Claim 39 are: "A piston for an engine cylinder comprising a skirt, a head separated from the skirt wall around
its: entire periphery, said skirt being longitudinally split
to render the skirt wall yieldable on every diameter in
response to cylinder wall pressure, wrist pin bosses, and
means rigidly connecting said bosses to the head and
yieldingly connecting said bosses to the skirt whereby
said skirt is yieldable in response to cylinder, wall pressure." Reference to a combination including, with other
elements, web connections, "whereby said piston skirt is
rendered yieldable during operation in response to cylinder wall pressure," appears in Claim 18.
The combination of piston head separated from a
slitted skirt by an air space, the two being connected by

SCHRIBER CO. v. CLEVELAND TRUST CO.
47

53

Opinion of the Court.

webs supporting wrist pin bearings with bosses which do
not come directly in contact with the walls of the skirt,
was plainly foreshadowed by the prior art as a practicable
means of minimizing the flow of heat from head to skirt
and of securing lateral flexibility in the skirt. The expired Spillman and Mooers patent No. 1,092,870, of
April 14, 1914, pooled with the patents in suit, showed a
piston with head separated by an air space from the skirt,
the two being connected by a web separated from the
skirt except at the point of integral connection with it
at the lower end of the piston, and providing bearings
for a wrist pin connection with bosses not in direct contact with the wall of the skirt.
Flexibility of the skirt attained by longitudinal slits
was old, as shown by the Ebbs patent No. 700,309 of
1902, and Van Bever, No. 1,031,212 of 1912. The Franquist piston, patent No. 1,153,902 of 1915, another of the
pooled patents, which showed piston head partially separated from skirt by air spaces, attained flexibility of the
piston wall by longitudinal grooves in the skirt which interrupted its outer periphery though connected at the inner edges of the groove by a fold of the metal on the accordion principle. The Long piston, patent No. 1,872,772
of 1932, which the master and the district court found
was in commercial use from 1917 on, and before the
amendment of the Gulick application, presently to be
discussed, showed longitudinal slits cut through the skirt,
which was separated by air spaces from the piston head,
the two being connected by parallel webs pierced for
wrist pin bearings.
The court below found invention in the Gulick disclosure in a combination of elements, of which one was
webs "laterally flexible," which were not specifically so
described in the Gulick application until the amendment
of 1922. Conceding that the deceleration of the flow of
heat from head to skirt by an air gap might be an obvious

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

expedient of the art, and that to slit the skirt vertically
so as to compensate for thermal expansion might not be
beyond the skill of the art, the court added: "But to combine insulation of head from skirt, retraction of the
bosses from the skirt periphery, connection of such bosses
to the skirt with webs laterally flexible and yet so carried
from the head as to support the load upon the wrist pin
with sufficient strength and rigidity, and to utilize the
mechanical force of the cylinder wall upon the skirt and
the thermal expansion of the bosses so as to compensate
evenly and fully for head expansion and to secure a balanced flexibility of the skirt with no bending concentration at any point therein, discloses, we think, a meritorious concept beyond the reach of those skilled in the
art." 92 F. 2d, at 334.
We can find no support in the opinion for the contention of respondent that the Circuit Court of Appeals did
not consider the flexible web an essential element in Gulick's invention. Its enumeration, among other named
eements, of the connection of head and skirt by webs
laterally flexible as embodying a meritorious concept
must be taken to indicate that the court regarded the
flexible webs as a part of the invention, the more so since
it indicates that lateral flexibility of the webs is the only
feature mentioned not within the prior art or within the
expected skill of the art. It rejected, on the authority of
Long v. Gulick, supra, and Hartog v. Long, supra, the
contention made below and pressed here that Gulick's
application as filed did not disclose "webs laterally flexible" and the resultant "balanced flexibility of the skirt,"
and that those features were added to specifications and
claims after the use of the Long piston and after they had
appeared in Hartog.
The Gulick application, which was filed November 30,
1917, contained no reference in terms to laterally flexible
webs or to the function of the webs in securing flexibility

SCHRIBER CO. v. CLEVELAND TRUST CO.
47

55

Opinion of the Court.

of the skirt. The specifications pointed to no inadequacy
in the structure or function of webs of the prior art which
would-be remedied by the webs specified and to no function to be performed by them other than as a means of
connecting and holding head and skirt so as to maintain
the air gap between them and to support the wrist pin
bearings and their bosses as both were shown in Spillman
and Mooers. On the contrary, Gulick's application described the webs as "extremely rigid" and stated that an
object of the invention was "to rigidly support the piston
pin bosses of a piston from the piston walls." The only
description of the web structure was as follows:
"It will be seen that in addition to providing a piston
with a split skirt the above described construction also
provides an extremely rigid connection between the piston pin bosses and the skirt of the piston, which construction may be used either with or without the split skirt
and separated head. The arrangement of the supporting flanges 17 between the ends of the piston pin bosses
and the connection of those flanges with the piston skirt
provide a particularly strong support for the bosses."
The webs as shown by the drawings conform to the specifications of anr "extremely rigid connection" between piston pin bosses and skirt and "a particularly strong support for the bosses." They form chords subtending the
arc of the circle of the skirt, with flanges depending from
the head to the bosses at right angles to the webs, and
the skirt as shown is provided with interior corrugations
and with an inturned flange at the bottom, all familiar
devices for securing rigidity of structure. Neither drawings nor specifications give dimensions showing thickness
or other proportions which might suggest a flexible
structure.
In 1922, after the Long piston, whose webs conced~dly
were laterally flexible, was in commercial use, and Hartog,
to the knowledge of Gulick's assignee, had specified and

56

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

claimed a yieldable web, Gulick copied the Hartog claim
and amended his specifications so as to state that one of
the objects of his invention was "to rigidly support the
piston pin bosses of a piston from the piston wall against
mechanical load thrust from the connecting rod without
interfering with the yielding characteristics of the skirt
in response to cylinder wall pressure." And he amended
his description of the web structure to read:
"The arrangement of the supporting flanges 17 between
the ends of the piston pin bqsses and the connections
of those flanges with both the piston guide portion and
the head provide a particularly strong construction, and
at the same time, when the longitudinal split is used,
as shown, the web structure has sufficient lateral flexibility to permit the split to close more or less under the
action of the expansion forces incident to the heating of
the piston."
Petitioners insist that the flexible web element of the
Gulick combination, as found and sustained by the court
below, is excluded from the Gulick patent by reason of
his failure to describe that element in his application as
filed, and that he could not cure the omission and secure
a patent embodying that feature by substituting by way
of amendment "webs laterally flexible" for "extremely
rigid webs" in the description of his invention. The statute, R. S. § 4888, provides that the application which
the inventor must file as a prerequisite to a patent shall
contain "a written description of [his invention] ...
and of the manner and process of making, constructing
. . . and using it, in such full, clear, concise, and exact

terms as to enable any person skilled in the art . . . to
. . . construct

. . .

and use the same; and in case of a

machine, he shall explain the principle thereof, and the
best mode in which he has contemplated applying that
principle, so as to distinguish it from other inventions; . . ."

SCHRIBER CO. v. CLEVELAND TRUST CO.
47

57

Opinion of the Court.

The object of the statute is to require the patentee to
describe his invention so that others may construct and
use it after the expiration of the patent and "to inform
the public during the life of the patent of the limits of the
monopoly asserted, so that it may be known which features may be safely used or manufactured without a
license and which may not." Permutit Co. v. Graver Corporation, 284 U.. S. 52, 60. It follows that the patent
monopoly does not extend beyond the invention described
and explained as the statute requires, Permutit Co. v.
Graver Corporation,supra, at 57; that it cannot be enlarged by claims in the patent not supported by the
description, Snow v. Lake Shore & M. S. Ry. Co., 121
U. S. 617; cf. Smith v. Snow, 294 U. S. 1; and that the
application for a patent cannot be broadened by amendment so as to embrace an invention not described in the
application as filed, at least when adverse rights of the
public have intervened. Railway Co. v. Sayles, 97 U. S.
554, 563, 564; Powers-Kennedy Corp. v. Concrete Co., 282
U. S. 175, 185-186; cf. Webster Electric Co. v. Splitdorf
Electrical Co., 264 U. S. 463; Permutit Co. v. Graver
Corporation,supra; Crown Cork & Seal Co. v. Gutmann
Co., 304 U. S. 159.
Respondent earnestly argues, as both courts held in
the interference proceedings, Long v. Gulick, supra, and
Hartog v. Long, supra, that the chhnges in Gulick's application were not alterations in the description of his invention but were at most a permissible clarification of its
description of the flexible web element which was present, or at least plainly suggested, in the specifications and
drawings of the Gulick application. Flexibility, it is said,
as is well known to those skilled in the art, is an inherent
property of the metal out of which the webs are made,
and in consequence reference to the webs in the application as filed was sufficient to import into it as a part of
the description of the invention their known quality of

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

flexibility, a description which was made more specific,
but not altered, by the amendments. The argument suggests that it was but the skill of the art, and not invention, to substitute a flexible foF a rigid means of connecting head and skirt in a known combination oi piston head
separated from a slitted skirt by an air space and connected by webs. But in any case we think it falls short
of establishing that the Gulick amendments were not new
matter beyond the scope of the device described in the
application as filed.
The properties of any given material are many and diverse. The antithetical qualities of rigidity and flexibility
of a strzpture are not absolute but relative; it may be
more rigid than some and more flexible than others; too
rigid for some purposes and too flexible for others. The
one quality may be increased and the other diminished
by choice of materials from which the structure is made
and by variation in its proportions. If invention depends
on emphasis of one quality over the other, as the court
below found was the case with the laterally flexible webs
in the Gulick device, the statute requires that emphasis
to be revealed to the members of the public, who are entitled to know what invention is claimed. That is not
accomplished either by naming a member having inherent
antithetical properties or by ascribing to it one property
when the other is meant. Since rigidity is a relative
term, the characterization of the structure as rigid must
be taken as emphasizing rigidity rather than its opposite,
flexibility, with special reference to the conditions to be
encountered in the operation of the piston. Even if
those skilled in the art would have known that a piston
with webs which would yield enough laterally to accommodate the constriction of the split skirt under the pressure developed by thermal expansion would work most
effectively if the webs were laterally flexible rather than

SCHRIBER CO. v. CLEVELAND TRUST CO.
47

59

Opinion of the Court.

rigid, that was not the invention which Gulick described
by his references to an extremely rigid web.
Gulick also failed to explain the principle of his machine so as to distinguish it from the prior art. Webs
having the inherent properties both of rigidity and flexibility were familiar elements in piston structure. The
court below, after pointing out that the slots of the
Franquist skirt rendered it capable of limited constriction, found a distinguishing feature of Gulick's piston to
be a web relatively flexible laterally, so as to accommodate the constriction of skirt to thermal expansion, the
combination operating to secure a "balanced flexibility"
of the skirt. But that pinciple-facilitating skirt constriction rather than obstructing it-was first explained
and its embodiment in the flexible-webbed device was
first clained by the amendments to the application.
As already indicated, the omission from the specifications was not supplied by the drawings, which failed to
disclose by dimensions the proportions of the webs. Inherent flexibility of the web in co6peration with the slit
skirt cannot be depended upon to produce the desired
effect in rendering the skirt yieldable in response to cylinder wall pressure. As respondent's own expert testified,
that depends upon design of the web, with correct proportioning of the different parts as to location and thickness to produce lateral flexibility. Inherent rigidity, made
more effective by design of the webs, would correspondingly curtail the desired effect.
We recognize the weight to be attached to the determinations in the interference proceedings in which the
Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia and the
Court of Customs and Patent Appeals sustained the Gulick amendments. Cf. Radio Corporationv. Radio Laboratories,293 U. S. 1, 7. But the decisions in those cases
are not controlling here. So far as the courts relied on

60

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

the inherent flexibility of the webs to supply the feature
of lateral flexibility omitted from. the Gulick description
they ignored the principle recognized in Permutit Co. v.
Graver Corporation,supra, and-Powers-Kennedy Corp. v.
Concrete Co., supra. So far as they relied on the drawings to supply the omission they disregarded the fact
shown both by inspection and by the evidence presented
here that the drawings do no more to point to Gulick's
invention than does the fact of inherent flexibility. We
conclude that respondent can take no benefit from the
flexible web element added by amendment to the Gulick
application.
In sustaining the claims of the Maynard patent the
court below said that "Maynard . . . embodies the
Gulick combination of skirt insulation, skirt flexibility by
means of vertical slotting cooperating with longitudinal
slotting, and flexible webs in the region of the wrist pin
bosses. He also follows Jardine's simplified design to permit economical manufacture and Jardine's boss relief,"
and after enumerating certain mechanical features of the
Maynard construction differing from Gulick and Jardine,
concluded: "It is clear that Maynard, while not departing
from the teaching of Gulick in basic combination of elements, discloses a piston lighter and more economical of
manufacture than Gulick and one more rugged and durable than Jardine." 92 F. 2d, at 337.
Invention over Gulick and Jardine was apparently
found in the details of construction but, as we are without other indication of the character of the invention, we
construe the court's opinion as including the laterally
flexible webs as an essential element in the patented combination. As flexible webs are neither described in Maynard's specifications nor mentioned in his claims, they can
be imported into them only by reference to the drawings
or by inference from the inherent flexibility of the structure, which, for reasons already given in our considera-

STAHMANN v. VIDAL.
47

Syllabus.

tion of the Gulick amendments, are insufficient to accomplish that result. We conclude that the court below erred
in giving any effect to so much of the Gulick patent as
by amendment describes or claims the flexible webs, and
in treating any of the specifications or claims in Gulick
and Maynard as referring to such webs. We assume that
it sustained Claim 1 of the Gulick patent, which makes
no mention of web flexibility, only by reading into it
that element, which the court regarded as an essential
part of the invention.
As the Court of Appeals did not pass upon other questions in the case, the causes will be reversed and remanded to it for further -proceedings, in conformity with
this opinion, with respect to such claims of the patents
in suit as appellant below submitted to that court for
adjudication.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

STAHMANN ET AL., DOING BUSINESS AS STAHMANN FARMS CO., v. VIDAL, COLLECTOR OF
INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 12. Argued October 12, 13, 1938.- -Decided November 7, 1938.
1. The purpose of the Bankhead Cotton Act (April 21, 1934; repealed by Act of Feb. 10, 1936) was to restrict the production of
cotton and, to that end, to levy a heavy tax in respect of that
produced in excess of the farmer's quota. The burden was to
fall upon the producer. The assessment of the tax against the
ginner was intended to immobilize tbe cotton in his possession
until the producer shold liquidate fVle tax. P. 65.

