STAHMANN v. VIDAL.
47

Syllabus.

tion of the Gulick amendments, are insufficient to accomplish that result. We conclude that the court below erred
in giving any effect to so much of the Gulick patent as
by amendment describes or claims the flexible webs, and
in treating any of the specifications or claims in Gulick
and Maynard as referring to such webs. We assume that
it sustained Claim 1 of the Gulick patent, which makes
no mention of web flexibility, only by reading into it
that element, which the court regarded as an essential
part of the invention.
As the Court of Appeals did not pass upon other questions in the case, the causes will be reversed and remanded to it for further -proceedings, in conformity with
this opinion, with respect to such claims of the patents
in suit as appellant below submitted to that court for
adjudication.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

STAHMANN ET AL., DOING BUSINESS AS STAHMANN FARMS CO., v. VIDAL, COLLECTOR OF
INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 12. Argued October 12, 13, 1938.- -Decided November 7, 1938.
1. The purpose of the Bankhead Cotton Act (April 21, 1934; repealed by Act of Feb. 10, 1936) was to restrict the production of
cotton and, to that end, to levy a heavy tax in respect of that
produced in excess of the farmer's quota. The burden was to
fall upon the producer. The assessment of the tax against the
ginner was intended to immobilize tbe cotton in his possession
until the producer shold liquidate fVle tax. P. 65.

62

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

2. Where a collector, as required by this Act, assessed a tax on excess
cotton against the ginner; and the producer, in order to possess
himself of the cotton, paid the tax to the collector, held that he
had standing, under R. S. § 3226, as amended by the Act of June
6, 1932, § 1103, to maintain an action against the collector, for
recovery of the amount plus interest, based upon the claim that
the Bankhead Act was unconstitutional. P. 63.
93 F. 2d 902, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 304 U. S. 552, to review the reversal of a

judgment for a tax, recovered by the taxpayer in the
District Court, in a case tried without a jury.
Mr. Thornton Hardie for petitioners.
Assistant Solicitor General Bell, with whom Solicitor
General Jackson, Assistant Attorney General Morris, and
Messrs. Sewall Key, F. E. Youngman, and Warner W.
Gardnerwere on the brief, for respondent.
MR.

JUSTICE

ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
We are to decide whether the petitioners may maintain an action to recover from a collector of internal
revenue sums paid by them as taxes assessed under the
1
Bankhead Cotton Act.
During the crop year 1934-1935 the petitioners were engaged in growing cotton and produced a quantity in excess
of the allotment for which, under the terms of the Act,
they were entitled to obtain tax exemption certificates.
Petitioners delivered the excess cotton to Santo Tomas
Gin Company, which ginned it and filed returns with
the respondent, as collector, showing a tax of some $13,000
due on the ginning. The respondent, as directed by the
Act, assessed the tax against the gin company. The
latter refused to deliver the cotton to the petitioners until
'Act of April 21, 1934, c. 157, 48 Stat. 598.

STAHMANN v. VIDAL.
61

Opinion of the Court.

the tax was paid, and to obtain their cotton the petitioners, in November 1934 and January 1935, paid the tax
to the respondent. March 6, 1935 they presented a claim
for refund, which was rejected by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue August 22, 1935. Suit was brought
against the respondent May 5, 1936, to recover the amount
paid with interest, the petitioners alleging that the Bankhead Act was unconstitutional. This the answer denied,
and set up the further defense that, under the Act, the
petitioners were not liable for the tax, any payment they
had made was in discharge of a liability imposed by the
Act on the gin company, and, consequently, they were
not entitled to maintain the action.
The District Court, a jury having been waived, held
that the Act was unconstitutional, that the petitioners
could maintain the action, and gave judgment for them.
The Circuit Court of Appeals refused to pass upon the
constitutional question, as it was of opinion that the trial
court erred in sustaining the petitioners' standing, and
reversed the judgment.2 On account of the importance
of the case we granted certiorari, limited, however, to the
question whether the petitioners were the proper parties
to maintain the action.
Section 20 (b) of the Bankhead Act ' stated the conditions upon which a proceeding might be maintained for
the recovery of any sum alleged to have been erroneously
or illegally assessed or collected under its terms. The
Act was repealed February 10, 1936," prior to the institution of the instant action. The petitioners were therefore remitted for recovery of the sum demanded to R. S.
3226, as amended by the Act of June 6, 1932, § 1103.5 As
thereby required, they timely filed a claim for refund,
293

F. 2d 902.

2 48 Stat. 606.
'49 Stat. 1106.
*47 Stat. 169, 286; U. S. C. Tit. 26, §§ 1672-1673.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

which was denied, and timely brought their action. Under this section it is unnecessary to plead or prove that
the tax was paid under protest or its collection was accomplished by duress.
The sole question for decision is whether the petitioners
voluntarily paid someone's else tax. If they did they
may not maintain the action.'
The respondent insists that, by the terms of the Act,
the tax is imposed upon the ginner and not upon the
producer. The petitioners, on the other hand, point to
the provisions of the Act which make the levy of the tax
dependent upon the vote of cotton producers and not
upon any act of the ginners; which base exemptions from
the tax upon the time, manner, and character of production and not upon the time, manner, or character of ginning; which grant exemptions to producers, not to ginners; which condition exemptions upon the producers
meeting certain conditions and limitations; and which
fix quotas for exemptions to producers. They say Congress never intended the ginner should bear the tax, since
the Act provides that he is to be reimbursed up to
twenty-five cents per bale for additional expense incurred by him in connection with the administration of the
Act. They assert that the respondent's contention that
the tax is upon the ginning of the cotton is negatived by
the fact that it is not assessed upon all cotton ginned regardless of the amount produced by the owner of the particular farm, and that it amounts per bale to approximately five times the amount of the customary charge
for ginning. They call especial attention to those sections of the Act which impose a lien for the tax upon the
'Compare Wourdack v. Becker, 55 F. 2d 840; Clift & Goodrich v.
United States, 56 F. 2d 751; Ohio Locomotive Crane Co. v. Denman,
73 F. 2d 408; Central Aguirre Sugar Co. v. United States, 2 F. Supp.
538; Combined Industries, Inc. v. United States, 15 F. Supp. 349.

STAHMANN v. VIDAL.
61

Opinion of the Court.

cotton if it is removed from the gin, forbid transportation of the cotton,-the producers' property,-beyond the
county where produced, except for storage, and prohibit
opening of the bale or sale of the cotton until the tax
shall have been paid. They say it is obvious the statute
made the ginner a convenient collecting agent to enforce
payment of the tax and that the purpose was to force the
farmer to pay by prohibiting his use of his excess cotton
unless and until he paid; and the latter is, therefore, entitled to maintain an action for the refund of the tax if
it was illegally collected.
We hold that the petitioners are entitled to maintain
the action. The purpose of the Bankhead Act was to
restrict the production of cotton and, to that end, to levy
a heavy tax in respect of that produced in excess of the
farmer's quota. The tax bore no relation to the ginning
of cotton. On the contrary, it was intended to fall, and
the Act attempted to make it fall, upon the producers.
The assessment of the tax against the ginner was intended
to immobilize the cotton in his possession until the producer should liquidate the tax. This is evident from the
provisions which impose a lien upon the cotton for the
amount of the tax upon removal of it from the gin without payment of the tax, and, while permitting it to be
stored by the producer, forbid the opening of a bale or
the sale of it until the tax liability shall have been discharged. Plainly the purpose was that if the ginner
should release the cotton to the producer while the tax
remained unpaid the lien upon it would insure payment
by the producer.
The scheme of the Act sets the case apart from any to
which our attention has been called arising under other
taxing acts. The collector was part of the machinery
for compelling the farmer to pay the tax, for immobilizing the cotton and making it unusable until the assess105537°-39-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

305 U. S.

ment he had made against the ginner was satisfied by
payment of the tax. Whether or not the tax was imposed
upon the petitioners, they are, according to accepted principles, entitled to recover unless they were volunteers,
which they plainly were not because they paid the tax
under duress of goods.
The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded for
further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR.

JUSTICE REED

took no part in the consideration or

decision of this case.
SOVEREIGN CAMP OF THE WOODMEN OF THE
WORLD v. BOLIN ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE KANSAS

CITY COURT

OF APPEALS

OF

MISSOURI.

No. 31.

Argued October 21, 1938.-Decided November 7, 1938.

1. A fraternal beneficiary association of Nebraska issued and delivered
in Missouri a certificate of membership requiring the member to
pay dues and assessments and providing for benefits to accrue
upon his death. Pursuant to a by-law of the association, the
certificate purported to exempt the member from further dues
and assessments after twenty years; but this exemption was afterwards adjudged by the Supreme Court of Nebraska, in a class suit
brought by the holder of a similar certificate, to be ultra vires and
void. In an action in Missouri by beneficiaries named in the
certificate first-mentioned, held:
(1) That the certificate was not a mere contract to be construed
and enforced according to the laws of the State where it was
delivered. Entry into the society was entry into a complex and
abiding relation and the rights of membership are governed by the
law of the State of incorporation. Another State, wherein the
certificate of membership was issued, can not attach to membership, rights against the society which are refused by the law of
the domicil. P. 75.

