NEBLETT v. CARPENTER.
Syllabus.

NEBLETT

ET AL.

V. CARPENTER, INSURANCE

COMMISSIONER,

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO TIE SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 21.

Argued October 18, 1938.-Decided December 5, 1938.

1. Decisions of the Supreme Court of California, to the effect(1) That a proceeding for rehabilitation of an insurance company, begun before a disqualified judge, could be carried on and a
transfer of assets made under his void order be ratified by orders
of a qualified judge who took his place;
(2) That the State Insurance Code authorized the Insurance
Commissioner to delegate to a corporation, organized by him,
powers and duties in aid of his administration of the assets of an
insolvent insurance company;
(3) That the authority which the Code confers on the Commissioner to enter into rehabilitation or insurance agreements embraces a contract for assumption of the insolvent company's policies
by a new company organized by the Commissioner; and
(4) That action of the Commissioner in this case did not violate
certain state statutes concerning fraudulent conveyancesheld rulings on local law not reviewable by this Court. Pp. 301-302.
2. Whether a state statute delegates legislative functions to the state
insurance commissioner in contravention of the state constitution is
a question of state law the decision of which by the state's highest
court is binding here. P. 302.
3. The provisions of the Insurance Code of California authorizing
the Commissioner, as conservator, and with the approval of the
court, to "mutualize or reinsure the business" of the company "or
enter into rehabilitation agreements," held not so vague that a
plan of rehabilitation by the formation of a new company would
deprive creditors of their property without due process of law.
P. 303.
4. A plan and agreement for the rehabilitation of a California insurance company (which became insolvent as a .result of unprofitable
noncancelable health and accident policies) provided for the formation by the Commissioner of a new company. The assets of the
old company would be transferred to the new in exchange for the
capital stock of the latter. The new company would assume the
policies and obligations of the old company to the extent provided
in the agreement. Policyholders were to have the option of taking

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Counsel for Parties.

305 U. S.

insurance from the new company or proving their claims for breach
of their contracts, provision for payment being made by covenants
of the new company and certain retained assets of the old. The
plan and agreement were approved by the state court. Several
holders of life and noncancelable health and accident insurance
policies challenged the plan and court order approving it as denying them due process of law and impairing the obligation of their
contracts. Upon review of a decision of the state court overruling
their claims, held:
(1) The contention that dissenting policyholders do not have the
option of proving their claims for breach of 'contract because no
liquidator has been appointed must be dismissed, since no reason
appears why action cannot, consistently with the plan, be taken
upon a pending application for the appointment of the Commissioner as liquidator. P. 303.
(2) The record before this Court in this case containing only the
judgment roll, it must be presumed that the evidence supported the
decree of the state court. P. 304.
(3) The dissenting policyholders have no constitutional right to
a particular form of remedy. P. 305.
(4) As far as appears rom the record in this case, the method
of liquidation provided by the plan adopted was as favorable to
dissenting policyholders as would have been a sale of the assets
and pro rata distribution to all creditors, and they have therefore
failed to show that their property is being taken without due process, or that the .obligations of their contracts will be impaired in
violation of the contract clause of the Federal Constitution. P. 305.
10 Cal. 2d 307; 74 P. 2d 761, affirmed.
CERTIORA,

304 U. S. 555, to review a judgment affirm-

ing an order of the Superior Court of Los Angeles County
which approved a plan of the Insurance Commissioner
for the rehabilitation of an insolvent insurance company.
Mr. Wm.H. Neblett, with whom Messrs. R. Dean
Warner and Vernon Bettin were on the brief, for
petitioners.
Mr. Wm.Marshall Bullitt and Miss Hester W: Webb,
with whom Messrs. U. S. Webb, Attorney General of

NEBLETT v. CARPENTER.
297

Opinion of the Court.

California, and Perry Price were on the brief, for respondents.
Messrs. T. B. Cosgrove, John N. Cramer, Josiah E.
Brill, George I. Cochran, and H. S. Dottenheim were on
several briefs for individual respondents.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The questions raised are whether proceedings for the
rehabilitation of an insurance company, pursuant to the
Insurance Code of California,' unconstitutionally deprive
policy holders of their property without due process of
law, or impair the obligation of their contracts.2
For many years the Pacific Mutual Life Insurance
Company of California has written life, health, and accident insurance. Since 1918 it has issued noncancelable
health and accident policies. The Insurance Commissioner of California determined that, while the life and
general health and accident business was in sound condition, there was an over-all deficit in reserves due to the
unprofitable nature of outstanding noncancelable health
and accident risks, with the result that the company was
insolvent within the meaning of the Code. July 22, 1936,
the Superior Court of Los Angeles County, on his application, appointed him conservator. On the same day
he applied for and obtained an order which appointed
him liquidator of the company. On the same day, as
conservator, he petitioned for authority to rehabilitate
'Statutes 1935, c. 145, pp. 540-553. The sections of the Insurance
Code bearing upon the issues in the case are 1011-16, inclusive, 1021,
1024, 1025, 1035, 1037, 1043.
2In
the court below contentions were made under the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment but neither the reasons
stated in support of the petition nor the assignments of error in. this
court present any question under that clause.

300

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

the company and submitted a plan embodying an agreement, to be executed by the company and himself as
Commissioner, with a new corporation, which he would
form, all of whose capital stock he would purchase with
the assets of the company, and to which he would transfer most of the assets, retaining the stock of the new
company and certain other assets of the old. The new
company was to assume the policies and obligations of
the old company to the extent provided in the agreement.
Policy holders were to have the option of taking insurance
from the new company or proving their claims for breach
of their contracts, provision for payment being made by
covenants of the new company and the retained assets
of the old. The court approved the plan and authorized
the execution and performance of the agreement.
Shortly afterwards it was discovered that the judge
who acted in the cause was probably disqualified by
ownership of a policy issued by the company. August
11, 1936, another judge entered an order, which, after
adverting to the possible disqualification of the judge who
made the earlier orders, ratified, approved, and confirmed
the order appointing the Commissioner conservator and,
on the basis of the petition filed on July 22, independently, and as an original order, appointed the Commissioner conservator, invested him with title to all the
company's assets, and authorized him to endeavor to
consummate a rehabilitation or reinsurance plan. On
September 25 the Commissioner presented a further petition for approval of the rehabilitation and reinsurance
agreement, which recited his actions taken pursuant to the
court's orders and to the plan of rehabilitation, and asked
approval thereof. An order issued which directed all
interested persons to show cause why the agreement,
and what had been done pursuant to it, should not be
approved and all the prior acts of the Commissioner
ratified and confirmed, and fixed a hearing. At the hear-

NEBLETT v. CARPENTER.
297

Opinion of the Court.

ing, which lasted from October 19 to December 4, many
officers, stockholders and policy holders who had intervened, including the petitioners, were heard. Plans of
rehabilitation presented by some of them were considered; evidence was taken and argument was had. December 4 an order was entered approving the Commissioner's plan and agreement, ratifying the action he had
taken, and authorizing him as conservator, and as liquidator, if he should be appointed as such, to carry out
the 'rehabilitation agreement. The court retained jurisdiction to make further orders for the effectuation of
the plan and agreement.
The Supreme Court of California affirmed the order. 8
The action of tl~at court in overruling certain of petitioners' contentions is claimed to have deprived them of
their property without due process.
The court declared that the orders of July 22, 1936, were
void because of the disqualification of the judge who
made them. The petitioners argue that in consequence
the Commissioner's transfer of assets to a new company
pursuant to the approved plan was void and that its
illegality could not be cured by subsequent court action.
The Supreme Court held, however, that the court in
which the Commissioner's original petition was filed
thereby acquired jurisdiction and that the avoidance of
the orders made by the disqualification of the judge who
entered them did not disenable a qualified judge thereafter from entering valid orders based on the petition. It
is further urged that as the old company's assets were
transferred to the new pursuant to a void order there was
nothing on which any later order could operate. The
later order, which is the subject of review, ratified and confirmed the transfer, and the Supreme Court held the order
effective under the Insurance Code.
'Carpenter v. Pacific Mutual Life Ins. Co., 10 Cal. 2d 307; 74
P. 2d 761.

302

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

It is said that the Code does not authorize the Commissioner to delegate to; a corporation organized by him
powers and duties in aid of his administration of the
assets of an insolvent insurance company. The state
court has held such procedure is in accordance with the
Code provisions.
It is argued that the authority which the Code confers
on the Commissioner to enter into rehabilitation or reinsurance agreements does not embrace a contract for assumption of the insolvent company's policies by a new
company organized by the Commissioner. The court below held the provisions of the statute contemplated such
action.
It is claimed that the Commissioner's action violated
certain state statutes concerning fraudulent conveyances.
The state court held the contrary.
All of these holdings concern matters of state law and
amount at most to alleged erroneous constructions of the
State's statutes by its own court of last resort. Such
decisions would not be a denial of the due process guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment.4 We are, therefore,
without jurisdiction.to review the state court's decision of
any of those questions.
It is argued that the Code unconstitutionally delegates
legislative functions to the Commissioner, and that the
Supreme Court erred in not so holding. This, again, is a
question of state law the decision of which by the State's
highest court is binding upon us.
The Insurance Code provides: "In any proceeding
under this article, the commissioner, as conservator ...
'Arrowsmith v. Harmoning, 118 U. S. 194, 196; Central Land Co.
v. Laidley, 159 U. S. 103, 112; Iowa Central Ry. Co. v. Iowa, 160
U. S. 389, 393; West v. Louisiana, 194 U. S. 258, 261; Standard Oil
Co. v. Missouri, 224 U. S.' 270, 287; McDonald v. Oregon R. & N.
Co., 233 U. S. 665, 669; American Ry. Exp. Co. v. Kentucky, 273
U. S. 269, 273.
"Ohio v. Akron Park District, 281 U. S. 74, 79.

NEBLETT v. CARPENTER.
297

Opinion of the Court.

may, subject to the approval of said court,... mutualize
or reinsure the business of" an insurance company "or
enter into rehabilitation agreements." The petitioners
assert that this language is so vague that no one can determine what powers are intended to be conferred upon
the Commissioner and that the state courts, in construing
the Code to authorize the plan and procedure here in
question unconstitutionally attempted to read a meaning
into the statute of which it is not susceptible, and thus
deprived the petitioners of their property without due
process. The court below fully considered the contention
and overruled it. We think its decision was justified by
the criteria approved by this court.'
The petitioners unsuccessfully claimed in the Supreme
Court that the method of liquidation adopted by the Commissioner and approved by the court, even if authorized by
the Insurance Code, denies them due process and impairs the obligation of their policy contracts. Because of
these contentions we granted certiorari.
One of the petitioners holds a life policy which, if he
assents to the plan, will be replaced by a policy of the
new company for the same amount. The others are
holders of noncancelable health and accident policies no
liability under which has accrued. If they assent to the
plan and accept the obligation of the new company, in
lieu of that of the old, they will receive insurance for only
a percentage of the face value of their old policies. The
alternative open to all is to dissent from the plan and to
prove their claims for breach of their policy contracts
against the liquidator of the old company. They. insist
this option is not available to them as no liquidator has
been appointed. When they took their appeal to the
State Supreme Court, there was pending an application
for the appointment of the Commissioner as liquidator,
' Connally v General Construction Co., 269 U. S. 385, 391.

304

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court

305 U. S.

and no reason is assigned why action cannot be taken upon
this petition pursuant to the plan. The Supreme Court
has said: "The proposal contemplates that in due course
the commissioner will be appointed liquidator of the old
company, and in that capacity will receive, liquidate, and
pay all claims against the old company from the old company's assets not transferred to the new company (including the new company's stock), and from certain moneys
furnished to the liquidator by the new company as provided in the agreement." 10 Cal. 2d 307, 322; 74 P. 2d
761, 771. The petitioners assert that the funds provided
will be insufficient for the payment of their claims and
others of like character, should they dissent from the plan.
The order of the Superior Court recites that the plan
makes adequate provision for each class of policy holders,
for the creditors, and for the stockholders; that the plan
is fair and equitable; that it does not discriminate unfairly or illegally in favor of any class of policy holders;
that the intangible assets conserved by the plan are worth
several million dollars and that if the old company were
dissolved and its assets sold their value would be substantially less than the amount which will be realized from
them under the plan.
The record upon which the appeal was taken to the Supreme Court of the State, and which has been brought
here by our writ, contains only the judgment roll. The
evidence is not before us and the court below has held
that, under the state law, the judge was not bound to make
special findings. We must presume that there was substantial evidence to sustain the court's decree. On account of the state of the record the petitioners are unable
to point to any evidence to sustain their contention that
if they dissent they will not receive as much in liquidation
of their claims for breach of their policy contracts as they
would upon a sale of assets and distribution of the
proceeds.

NEBLETT v. CARPENTER.
297

Opinion of the Court.

The petitioners have no constitutional right to a particular form of remedy.' They are not entitled, as against
their fellows who prefer to come under the plan and
accept its benefits, to force, at their own wish or whim, a
liquidation which under the findings will not advantage
them and may seriously injure those who accept the benefit of the plan. They are not bound, as were the dissenting creditors in Doty v. Love, 295 U. S. 64, to accept the
obligation of the new company but are afforded an alternative whereby they will receive damages for breach of
their contracts. They have failed to show that the plan
takes their property with6ut due process.
It is not contended that a statutory scheme for the
liquidation of an insolvent domestic corporation is per se
an impairment of the obligation of the company's contracts. The argument is that the impairment of contract arises from the less favorable terms and conditions
of the new noncancelable policies which are to be substituted for the old ones and, in the case of the life
policies, by the substitution of a new company as contractor in place of the old, without the consent of the
policy holder. This position is bottomed upon the theory
that the policy holders are compelled to accept the new
company as insurer on the terms set out in the rehabilitation agreement. As has been pointed out, they are not so
compelled but are given the option of a liquidation which
on this record appears as favorable to them as that which
would result from the sale of the assets and pro rata distribution in solution of all resulting claims for breach of
outstanding policies.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE REED took no part in the consideration or
decision of this case.
'Gibbes v. Zimmerman, 290 U. S. 326, 332; Doty v. Love, 295
U. S. 64, 70.
105537'-39-20

