OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

v. Minnesota Investment Co., supra; Goodyear Co. v.
United States, supra.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

and

MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
SOCONY-VACUUM OIL CO. v. SMITH.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 195.

Argued December 15, 1938.-Decided January 3, 1939.

1. Assumption of risk is not a defense in a suit brought by a seaman under the Jones Act to recover for injuries resulting from
his use, while on duty, of a defective appliance of the ship, when
he chose to use the unsafe appliance, knowing it unsafe, instead
of a safe method of doing his work, which was known to him.
P. 428.
2. In such cases the admiralty rule of comparative negligence applies, in mitigation of damages. P. 431.
96F. 2d 98, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, post, p. 586, to review the affirmance of a
judgment recovered by the present respondent, a seaman, in an action for personal injuries brought under

the Jones Act.
Mr. Louis Mead Treadwell, with whom Messrs. Henry
B. Potter and John J. Manning were on the brief, for
petitioner.

Mr. George J. Engelman for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The question is whether assumption of risk is a defense
in a suit brought by a seaman under the Jones Act to

recover for injuries resulting from his use, while on duty,

SOCONY-VACUUM CO. v. SMITH.
424

Opinion of the Court.

of a defective appliance of the ship, when he chose to use
the unsafe appliance instead of a safe method of doing his
work, which was known to him.
Respondent, a seaman, brought the present suit in the
District Court for southern New York to recover, under
the Jones Act, 41 Stat. 1007, 46 U. S. C. § 688, for an
injury received from a fall in the engine room of petitioner's vessel. The fall was caused by a defective step
on which respondent stood while on duty, when seeking to
learn, by touching with his finger, whether an engine bearing was overheated.
In submitting the case to the jury the trial court applied the admiralty rule of comparative negligence, instructing the jury that negligence of respondent contributing to the accident was not a bar to recovery but was to
be considered in mitigation of damages. The court
refused petitioner's request for an instruction that if
respondent could have performed his duty without use of
the defective step, he assumed the risk of injury from it.
Instead, the court charged that there was no assumption
of risk by the seaman where the shipowner failed in its
duty to furnish a safe appliance.
Judgment of the district court, upon a verdict in respondent's favor, was affirmed b.* the Court of Appeals for
the Second Circuit, 96 F. 2d 98, on authority of The
Arizona v. Anelich, 298 U. S.110, and Beadle v. Spencer,
298 U. S.124. The court's decision was predicated upon
its 'conclusion that respondent had free choice of a way
to reach and touch the bearing, without standing on the
defective step, and it held- that in the circumstances, and
since the seaman had not used the defective appliance
contrary to orders, the trial judge had correctly instructed
the jury that assumption of risk was not a bar to rerecovery. We granted certiorari, October 10, 1938, upon
a petition asking us to review this ruling in the light of
our decisions in The Arizona, and the Beadle cases, supra,

426

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

the question being one of public importance in the application of the maritime law as supplemented by the Jones
Act.
A preliminary point, much discussed in brief and argument here, is whether the question ruled upon below is
presented by the record. Respondent insists that there
was no evidence from which the jury could conclude that
there was a safe method known to him by which he could
have reached the bearing without using the defective
step and that he chose the unsafe instead of the safe
method.
Respondent was employed as an oiler in petitioner's
engine room. It was his duty while the vessel was under way to touch with his finger, at intervals of twenty
minutes, a bearing of the propeller shaft, in order to ascertain whether it was overheating and in need of additional lubrication. Directly in front of the bearing, as
he approached it, was an iron step, located about one
foot above the engine room floor and bolted to the bedplate which supported the bearing. Respondent testified
that the step was braced on its underside by a bracket or
strut, and that about two or three weeks before the accident he had observed that the bracket was loose and out
of place and had reported the fact to a superior officer.
Respondent also gave the only account of what occurred at the time of the accident. He testified that in
order to reach the bearing it was necessary for him and
was his uniform practice to stand with his right foot upon
the step with his left advanced and placed upon the bedplate, and with his left hand holding, for support, the
upper edge of an adjacent vertical slush pan; that, standing in this position, he placed his right hand in a hole
extending downward through the bearing cap a distance
of eight or ten inches, where he touched the shaft and
*the adjoining bearing to discover whether. they were overheated and to inspect the oil which stuck to his fingers

SOCONY-VACUUM CO. v. SMITH.
424

Opinion of the Court.

and which, if discolored, would indicate that the journal
was beginning to gripe because of excessive friction; that
as he stepped down his left foot struck the loose bracket,
which had projected beyond the edge of the step, causing
him to fall and suffer the injuries complained of. There
was testimony by petitioner's witnesses, all denied by respondent, from which the jury could have found that it
was possible for )respondent to. have reached the bearing
while standing on the floor, without the use of the defective step, by seizing with his right hand a grab iron
located on a nearby column and reaching with his left
hand to touch the left end of the bearing, which extended through the bedplate; that this was the usual and
only appropriate way to examine the bearing, and that
respondent had been seen to reach it in that manner.
There was also testimony that other oilers had touched
the bearing without using the step while standing on
the floor, with right hand grasping the upper edge of the
vertical crank-pit guard, which was adjacent on the right
and nearer to the bearing than the grab iron. There was
evidence of the relative localities of the several parts of
the structure mentioned and of the distances between
them, indicating that respondent could have reached the
bearing, either at its left end or through the hole in the
bearing cap, while standing on the engine room floor
and without using the step.
We must accept the verdict as establishing the negligent
failure of petitioner to furnish a safe appliance, the iron
step, and that -the plaintiff knew that it was defective at
the time of the accident, for the only evidence of any
breach of duty by petitioner was respondent's testimony
that he knew of the defect and had reported it to the first
assistant engineer two or three weeks before.the accident.
Upon all the evidence it was for the jury to say whether
respondent was aware that in reaching the bearing with
one hand, either at its end or through the hole in the bear-

428

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U.S.

ing cap, he could avoid the use of the defective step by
standing on the engine room floor and steadying himself by
seizing with his right hand the grab iron or the crank-pit
guard on his right, or by placing his left hand on the edge
of the slush pan.
No specific. instruction was asked or given as to what the
verdict should be if the jury concluded that respondent
had knowingly made such an election. Instead, the court
charged generally "that the ship owner is under a duty to
furnish the seaman with a safe place in which to work"
and "There is no contributory negligence or assumption of
risk on the part of a plaintiff in so far as the defendant
fails in these duties." Consequently, there is no basis for
disturbing the judgment unless this charge is erroneous as
applied to the evidence taken most favorably to petitioner.
The question whether assumption of risk is a bar to a
suit by a seaman to recover under the Jones Act for injuries caused by a defective appliance, when he has a free
is a novel one in this Court.
choice to avoid the use of it,
No such choice was involved in The Arizona or Beadle
cases. There assumption of risk by the seaman, which
would have barred recovery at common law, was concededly not a defense under the admiralty rule. The decision was that the Jones Act, in extending to seamen all
the rights to recover for injuries resulting from defective
appliances given to railway employees by the Federal Employers' Liability Act, 35 Stat. 65, 45 U. S. C. § 51, had
left undisturbed the admiralty rule with respect to assumption of risk. In holding that the rule had not been
changed, we did not consider the question now presented
whether, within that rule, assumption of risk is a defense
where the seaman could have avoided the use of the unsafe appliance by the free choice of a safe one.
Before the Jones Act a seaman was entitled to recover,
from a vessel or its owner, indemnity for injuries due to an

SOCONY-VACUUM CO. v. SMITH.
424

Opinion of the Court.

unseaworthy vessel, or for "failure to supply and to keep
in order the proper appliances appurtenant to the ship."
The Osceola, 189 U. S. 158, 175; The Arizona v. Anelich,
supra, 120 et seq. Contributory negligence, then as now,
was not a defense in suits brought by seamen to recover
for injuries attributable to defective equipment, but was
ground only for mitigation of damages. See The Max
Morris, 137 U. S. 1; The Arizona v. Anelich, supra, 122,
and cases cited. And no American case appears to have
recognized assumption of risk as a defense to such a suit.
In numerous cases this defense was either denied or ignored in circumstances plainly calling for its application
had it been available. Halverson v. Nisen, Fed. Cas. No.
5,970; 3 Sawy. 562; The Edith Godden (D. C.), 23 F. 43;
The Noddleburn (D. C.), 28 F. 855; Olson v. Flavel (D.
C.), 34 F. 477; The A. Heaton (C.C.), 43 F. 592; The
Julia Fowler (D. C.), 49 F. 277; Lafourche Packet Co. v.
Henderson (C. C. A.), 94 F. 871; The Fullerton,167 F. 1;
Globe S. S. Co. v. Moss, 245 F. 54; The Colusa (C. C. A.),
248 F. 21; Cricket S. S. Co. v. Parry,263 F. 523; Storgard
v. France & CanadaS. S. Corp. 263 F. 545.
In some of these cases the seaman had voluntarily
shipped on a vessel which he knew to be unseaworthy,
Cricket S. S. Co. v. Parry, supra; see Scheffler v. Moran
Towing & TransportationCo., 68 F. 2d 11, 12. In others
it was apparent that the seaman had chosen to expose
himself to the dangers of unsafe appliances when there
was a safe alternative. The JuliaFowler, supra; Olson v.
Flavel, supra.
In some cases arising after the Jones Act where the defense was allowed, the employee was thought to have had
the status of a stevedore or shore worker and not that of a
seaman. The Maharajah,40 F. 784; Cunard S. S. Co. v.
Smith, 255 F. 846; Hardie v. New York HarborDry Dock
Corp., 9 F. 2d 545; Skolar v. Lehigh Valley R. Co., 60 F.

430

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

2d 893; Scheffler v. Moran Towing & TransportationCo.,
supra, 12; Yaconi v. Brady & Gioe, Inc., 246 N. Y. 300,
306; 158 N. E. 876. In Johnson v. United States, 74 F.
2d 703, the seaman had made his choice in disobedience
of orders, and in another where the defense was allowed
the seaman, while not on duty, though in the course of
his employment, had chosen to go into an unsafe part of
the vessel, knowing that there was an alternative. Holm
v. Cities Service Co., 60 F. 2d 721.'
Here respondent was a seaman; he was on duty when injured; and there was no evidence that he acted in disobedience of orders. In the absence of any controlling or
persuasive authorit we look to the reason of the admiralty rule of assumption of risk in order to ascertain its
appropriate limits. Many considerations which apply to
the liability of a vessel or its owner to a seaman for the
failure to provide safe appliances and a safe place to work
are absent or are of little weight in the circumstances
which attend shore employment, in relation to which the
common law rules of assumption of risk and contributory
negligence have been developed.
The seaman, while on his vessel, is subject to the rigorous discipline of the sea and has little opportunity to appeal to the protection from abuse of power which the law
makes readily available to the landsman. His complaints
to superior officers of unsafe working conditions not infrequently provoke harsh treatment. He cannot leave the
vessel while at sea. Abandonment of it in port before his
'In Tampa Interocean S. S. Co. v. Jorgensen, 93 F. 2d 927, 930,
the Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, in affirming a judgment
in favor of a seaman, took occasion to approve the following instruction by the trial court to the jury: "You are instructed that if the
plaintiff was furnished two methods of entering the 'tween deck
space, one obviously safe and the other obviously unsafe, and if the
plaintiff knew the safe method and notwithstanding chose the unsafe
method, the defendant is not liable."

SOCONY-VACUUM CO. v. SMITH.
424

Opinion of the Court.

discharge, to avoid unnecessary dangers of employment,
exposes him to the risk of loss of pay and ta the penalties
for desertion 2 In the performance of duty he is often
under the necessity of making quick decisions with little
opportunity or capacity to appraise the relative safety of
alternative courses of action. Withal, seamen are the
wards of the admiralty, whose traditional policy it has
been to avoid, within reasonable limits, the application of
rules of the common law which would affect them harshly
because of the special circumstances attending their calling. The Arizona v. Anelich, supra, 123, and cases cited;
Calmar Steamship Corp. v. Taylor, 303 U. S. 525. It is
for this reason that remedial legislation for the benefit and
protection of seamen has been liberally construed to attain that end. Chelentis v. Luckenbach S. S. Co., 247 U.
S. 372, 380, 381; Jamison v. Encarnacion,281 U. S. 635,
639; Alpha S. S. Corp. v. Cain, 281 U. S. 642; Cortes v.
Baltimore Insular Line, 287 U. S. 367, 375; Warner v.
Goltra, 293 U. S. 155, 157.
Any rule of assumption of risk in admiralty, whatever
its scope, must be applied in conjunction with the established admiralty doctrine of comparative negligence and
in harmony with it. Under that doctrine contributory
negligence, however gross, is not a bar to recovery but
only mitigates damages. There being no defense of assumption of risk where the seaman is without opportunity to use a safe appliance, it seems plain that his choice
of a defective instead of a safe one, resulting in injury,
does not differ in either the quality of the act or in its
iLurious consequences, ii any practical way, from his
correspondingly negligent use of a safe or an unsafe appliance, where its use has contributed to an injury resulting from a breach of duty by the owner. See The
Wanderer, 20 F. 140; The Frank and Willie, 45 F. 494;
'See R. S. § 4596,46 U. S. C. § 701.

432

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

305 U. S.

John A. Roebling's Sons Co. v. Erickson, 261 F. 986, 987;
Storgard v. France & Canada S. S. Corp., 263 F. 545.
In either case the seaman's negligence is a contributing
cause of his injury, without which the ship owner would
be liable to the full extent of the damage.
The incongruity and practical embarrassments in the
application of a rule that the negligence in the one case
bars recovery, while that in the other only reduces the recoverable damages, are evident.
The common law is
consistent in holding that both contributory negligence
and assumption of risk are defenses. But other considerations apart, it seems inconsistent, and an impracticable
refinement, to apply the rule for which petitioner contends in a system of law which maintains the comparative negligence rule to the fullest extent. This was recognized in Olson v. Flavel, supra, and The Julia Fowler,
supra, where the choice by the seaman of an unsafe appliance was held not to bar recovery but to be a proper
basis for a substantial reduction of damages because of
the negligence of the choice. In The JuliaFowler, supra,
the eminent admiralty judge, Addison Brown, held that
a seaman who had suffered injury through the deliberate
use of a halliard known to be defectively spliced when
a sound rope was available was entitled to recover, but
with diminution of damages because of his negligence in
using the unsafe rope.
We think that the consistent development of the maritime law in conformity to its traditional policy of affording
adequate protection to seamen through an exaction of a
high degree of responsibility of owners for the seaworthiness of vessels and the safety of their appliances will be
best served by applying the rule of comparative negligence, rather than that of assumption of risk, to the seaman who makes use of a defective appliance knowing
that a safe one is available. The power of the trial judge

SOCONY-VACUUM CO. v. SMITH.
Opinion of the Court.

424

to guide and instruct the jury and his control over excessive verdicts afford as adequate a protection to owners as
in any other case where the negligence of the seaman,
whatever its degree, has contributed to an actionable
injury.
Upon the facts of this case, there was no error in the
charge of the trial court as to assumption of risk. Its instruction as to the application of the rule of comparative
negligence was general and no exception was taken to it.
Petitioner would have been entitled to a more specific
instruction, if requested, as to the appropriate effect upon
the amount of the verdict of the relative degrees of petitioner's and respondent's negligence if the jury should find
that respondent had knowingly failed to choose an available safe method of doing his work.
We leave to future cases as they may arise the determination of what rule is to apply in cases where the seaman's
election to use an unsafe appliance is in disobedience of
orders or made while not on duty.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS thinks the petitioner's request for the charge in respect of assumption of risk should
have been granted and that, for that reason, the challenged judgment should be reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

or decision of this case.

105537°-39-

28

took no part in the consideration

