OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

233 U. S.

should be left to the carrier company, which, bound to
serve the public, is held to- the exercise of diligence in
selecting competent men, and responsible in law for the
acts of those who fill any of these positions.
4. There was evidence that Smith safely and properly
operated the train which had in it cars containing freight
destined for points in Texas, Missouri, Oklahoma and
Kansas. But in view of what has been said it is iot necessary to consider whether the plaintiff, as engineer, was
in a position to raise the point that under the decision in
Adams Express Co. v. City of New York, 232 U. S. 14, the
statute interfered with interstate commerce.
The judgment is reversed and the case remanded to the
Court of CriminalAppeals of the State of Texas for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

dissents.

MISSOURI, KANSAS & TEXAS RAILWAY COMPANY OF TEXAS v. CADE.
ERROR TO THE JUSTICE COURT, PRECINCT NO. 7,

DALLAS

COUNTY, TEXAS.
No. 522.

Submitted February 24, 1914.-Decided May 11, 1914.

Where a state statute has been held unconstitutional under the state
constitution by an inferior state court, and subsequently has been
upheld by the highest court of the State, this court, when the case is
properly here under ยง 237, Judicial Code, must regard the statute as
valid under the state constitution and consider only the question of

its validity under the Federal Constitution, although intermediately
this court has followed the decision of the lower state court.
The validity of a state statute under the commerce clause or the Act
to Regulate Commerce cannot be attacked in a suit which is not
based upon a claim arising out of interstate commerce.
A State may classify claims against persons or corporations where

there is no classification of debtors and where the claims are not
grouped together for the purpose of bearing against any class of
citLzns or corporations.

MISSOURI, KANSAS & TEXAS RY. v. CADE.
233 U. S.

643

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

A state police regulation designed to promote payment of small claims
of certain classes and discourage unnecessary litigation respecting
them should not be set aside by the Federal courts on the ground
that claims of other kinds have not been included, where the legislature was presumably dealing with an actual mischief and made the
act as broad in its scope as seemed necessary from the practical
standpoint.
The Fourteenth Amendment does not require that state laws shall be
perfect.
In the absence of a construction by the state courts to that effect, this
court will not concede that a state statute confers its benefits only
upon natural persons who are plaintiffs in certain classes of actions
and not upon corporation plaintiffs.
A defendant corporation is not in a position to assail a state statute as
denying equal protection of the law because its benefits do not inure
to corporations which are plaintiffs.
If the classification is otherwise reasonable, a state statute does not
deny equal protection of the law because attorney's fees are allowed
to successful plaintiffs only and not to successful defendants. The
classification is reasonable.
A statute allowing an attorney's fee in cases involving small amounts
is not one imposing a penalty where it appears that the effect is
,merely to require defendant to reimburse plaintiff for part of his
expenses.
This court follows the construction of the highest court of the State
to the effect that a statute imposing an attorney's fee on the defeated
defendant is limited to claims of an amount specified in the title.
The statute of Texas of 1909 imposing an attorney's fee on the defeated
defendant in certain classes of cases, as the same has been construed
by the highest court of that State, is not unconstitutional under the
equal protection provision of the Fourteenth Amendment. Gulf,
Colorado & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150, distinguished.

THE facts, which involve the construction and constitutionality under the equal protection provision of the Fourteenth Amendment of a statute of Texas of 1909 imposing
an attorney's fee on the defeated defendant in certain
classes of cases, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Joseph M.

Bryson, Mr. Aldis B.

Browne, Mr.

Alexander S. Coke and Mr. A. H. McKnight, for plaintiff
in error:

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

233 U S.,

The act is void because in conflict with the due process
and equal protection provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The act is in part a regulation of, a burden upon and
an interference with interstate commerce, contrary to
subd. 3, ยง8, Art. I, Constitution of the United States, and
is in conflici with the Act to Regulate Commerce, and to
that extent is void, and since the good, if any, and the
bad in it are so intermingled that the one cannot be
separated from the other, the act must fail in whole.
In support of these contentions, see Adams Exp. Co. v.
Croninger, 226 U. S. 491; Adams Exp. Co. v. New York,
232 U. S. 14; A., T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Matthews, 174
U. S. 96; Atlantic Coast Line v. Riverside Mills, 219 U. S.
186; Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27; Barrett v. Indiana,
229 U. S. 30; Blake v. McClung, 172 U. S. 259; Bradley v.
Richmond, 227 U. S. 481; Central R. R. Co. v. Murphey,
196 U. S. 194; C., R. I. & P. Ry. Co. v. Hardwick,Elevator
Co., 226 U. S. 426; Chi., Mil. &c. Ry. Co. v. Polt, 232
U. S. 165; Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540;
Cotting v. Kansas City Stock Yards, 183 U. S. 79; E1 Paso
& N. E. R. R. Co. v. Gutierrez, 215 U. S. 97; Employers'
Liability Cases, 207 U. S. 501; Fidelity Mut. Life Ass'n v.
Mettler, 185 U. S. 308; Ft. Worth &c. Ry. Co. v. Lloyd, 132
S. W. Rep. 899; G., C. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Dennis, 224 U. S.
503; G., C. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150; G., C. &
S. F. Ry. Co. v. Hefley, 158 U. S. 98; G., C. & S. F. Ry. Co.
v. Thorn, 227 U. S. 675; Hale v. Henkel, 201 U. S. 76;
Ill. Cent. R. R. Co. v. McK'endree, 203 U. 5. 529; Int. Com.
Comm. v. L. & N. R. R. Co., 227 U. S. 88; Kansas City
Southern Ry. Co. v. Carl, 227 U. S. 639; M. K., & T. Ry.
Co. v. Harriman, 227 U. S. 657; M., K. & T. Ry. Co. of
Tex. v. Mahaffey, 150 5. W. Rep. 881; Mo. Pac. Ry. Co. v.
Humes, 115 U. S. 512; Mondou v. N. Y., N. H. & H. R. R.
Co., 223 U. S. 1; Nor. Pac. Ry. Co. v. Washington, 222
U. S. 370; St. L., I.'M. & So. Ry. Co. v. Wynne, 224 U. S.

MISSOURI, KANAS & TEXAS RY. v. CADE. 645
233 U. S.

Opiaioh of the Court.

354; St. L. & S. F. RV. Co. v. Mathews, 165 U. S. 1; Seaboard Air Line v. Seegers, 207 U. S. 73; Simpson v. Shepard, 230 U. S. 352; Sinnot v. Davenport, 22 How. 242;
Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 522; Southern R. Co. v. Greene,
216 U. S. '400; Southern R. Co. v. Reid, 222 U. S. 424;
Southern R. Co. v. Reid & Beam, 222 U. S. 444; United
States v. Reese, 92 U. S. 221; Yazoo & Miss. Valley R. R.
Co. v. Jackson Vinegar Co., 226 U. S. 217; Yick Wo v.
Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356.
There was no appearance or brief filed for the defendant
in error.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This action was brought in the Justice Court to recover
the sum of ten dollars and seventy-five cents alleged to be
due as wages from the defendant (now plaintiff in error) to
the plaintiff below, with an attolrney's fee of nine dollars.
The fee was claimed only by virtue of an act of the legislature, approved March 13, 1909, Laws, p. 93, now forming
Arts. 2178 and 2179, Texas Rev. Civ. Stat. 1911. Defendant specially excepted to this part of plaintiff's claim,
on the ground that the act was invalid as constituting a
burden upon interstate commerce, contrary to the Commerce Clause of the Federal Constitution and the Act to
Regulate Commerce and amendments thereof, and as
violating the "equal protection" and "due process"
clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment. Notwithstanding
these contentions, judgment was rendered in favor of
plaintiff for the amount claimed, including the attorney's
fee. Under the local practice, no appeal lies from a
decision of the Justice Court to a higher state court in a
case involving less than twenty dollars, and so the judgment is brought directly here by writ of error for a review
of the Federal questions.
The statute in question (including its caption) is set

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

forth in the margin. 1 This is the same act that was held
invalid under the state constitution by the Court of Civil

Appeals in Fort Worth & D. C. Ry. Co. v. Loyd, 132 S. W.
Rep. 899, because of which decision this court, in Gulf, Col"An Act to regulate the presentation and collection of' claims for
personal services or for labor rendered, or for material furnished, or
for overcharges in freight or express, or for any claim for lost or damaged
freight, or for stock killed or injured by any person or corporation,
against any person or corporation doing business in this State, and providing a reasonable amount of attorney's fees to be recovered, in cases
where the amount of such claims shall not exceed two hundred ($200)
dollars, and declaring an emergency.
"SECTION 1. That hereafter any person in this State, having a valid,

bona fide claim against any person or corporation doing business in this
State, for personal services rendered or for labor done, or for material
furnished, or for overcharges on freight or express, or for any claim for
lost or damaged freight, or for stock killed or injured by such person or
corporation, its agents or employds, may present the same to such
person or corporation or to any duly authorized agent thereof, in any
county where suit may be instituted for the same; and if, at the expiration of thirty days after the presentation of such claim, the same has
not been paid or satisfied, he may immediately institute suit thereon
in the proper court, and if he shall finally establish his claim, and obtain
judgment for the full amount thereof, as presented for payment to
such person or corporation in such court he shall be entitled to recover
the amount of such claim and all costs of suit, and in addition thereto
a reasonable amount as attorney's fees, provided, he has an attorney
employed in the case, not to exceed twenty ($20.00) dollars, to be determined by the court or jury trying the case; provided, however, that
nothing in this Act shall be construed to repeal or in any manner affect
any provision of the law now in force giving a remedy to persons having claims of the character mentioned in this Act, but the same shall
be considered as cumulative of all other remedies given to sudh a person
or persons.
"SEC. 2. The fact that there is no law now in force in this State
providing an effectual remedy for persons having such claims as are
mentioned in this Act, creates an emergency and an imperative public
necessity requiring the suspension of the constitutional rule requiring
bills to be read on three several days, and this Act shall take effect
from and after its passage, and it is so enacted.
"Approved March 13, 1909."

MISSOURI, KANSAS & TEXAS RY. v. CADE. 647
233,U. S.

Opinion'of the Court.

orado & S. F. Railway v. Dennis, 224 U. S. 503, reversed
a judgment that included an attorney's fee, without passing upon the question whether the act contravened the
Fourteenth Amendment. And see Gulf, Colorado & S. F.
Railway v. Thorn, 227 U. S. 675. Since that time the
Supreme Court of Texas, overruling the decision in the
Logd Case, has upheld the act under the Texas constitution, in Missouri, Kan. & Texas Ry. Co. of Texas v.
Mahaffey, 105 Texas, 394. 'Wemust therefore now consider the Federal questions.
But first, we should note the construction placed upon
the act by the state court of last resort. Section 35 of
Article III of the constitution of 1876 declares that no
bill except appropriation bills shall contain more than one
subject, which shall be expressed in its title; "But if any
subject shall be embraced in an act which shall not be
expressed in the title, such act shall be void only as to so
Inuch thereof as shall not be so expressed." In the case
last mentioned (105 Texas, 394, 398), the court construed
the act as linited in its operation to the purpose expressed
in the title, that is, as relating only to the collection -of
claims not exceeding two hundred dollars in amount, and
as conferring no right upon persons having claims exceeding that amount which did not exist independently of the
act. In reaching this conclusion, the court said: "Surely,
the Legislature did not intend to limit attorney's fees to
twenty dollars in a case involving one thousand dollars,
and there is no apparent rason for allowing additional
attorney's fee of twenty dollars in a case involving so
large an amount, but there is a sound reason for allowing
and limiting the amount of fee on small claims. If the
claim be two hundred dollars, or less, and suit must be
instituted, which makes an attorney necessary, it is a
heavy tax on the claimant; therefore, if he present a just
demand which is refused, the recovery of the full amount
claimed shows that the demand of payment should have

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.

Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

been granted, and this law -compels one refusing payment
of such demand to pay the cost and attorney's fees, not to
exceed twenty dollars. The limitation of the amount of
the fee to twenty dollars and to cases in which an attorney
has been actually employed practically implies that such
action might be prosecuted without an attorney which in
effect limits the amount of the claim to two hundred
dollars, because the only court in which suits of that
character could be instituted by non-professional claimants, without the scrvices of an attorney, is that of justice
of the peace, whose jurisdiction cannot exceed two hun-dred dollars, therefore, the limitation in the caption is in
effect the same as that of the body of the law, because the
proviso in the law can be harmonized with the title by no
other.-construction."
So far as the present attack is founded upon the commerce clause and the Act to Regulate Commerce, it is
sufficient to say that the judgment under review was not
based upon a claim arising out of interstate cojnmerce, and
hence plaintiff in error does not bring itself within the
class with regard to whom it claims the act"to be in this
respect repugnant to the Constitution and laws of the
United States. Seaboard Air, Line v. Seegers, 207 U. S.
73, 76; Tyler v. Judges, 179 U. S. 405, 409; Hooker v.
Burr, 194 U. S. 415, 419; Hatch v. Reardon, 204 U. S. 152,
160; Southern Railway Co. v. King, 217 U. S. 524, 534;
Standard Stock Food Co. v. Wright, 225 U. S. 540, 550;
Rosenthal v. New York, 226 U. 9. 260, 271; FarmersBank
v. Minnesota, 232 U. S. 516, 530; Plymouth Coal Co. v.
Pennsylvania, 232 U. S. 531, 544.
Upon the other questions, plaintiff in error relies chiefly
upon Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fe Ry. v. Ellis, 165 U. S.
150. In that case a previous act of the legislature of
Texas (act of April 5, 1889, c. 107, General Laws, p. 131;
Supp. to Sayles' Tex. Civ. Stat., Art. 4266 a; p. 768) was
held repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment. That act

MISSOURI, KANSAS & TEXAS RY. v. CADE.
233 U. S.

649

Opinion of the Court.

allowed the recovery of plaintiff's attorney's fees in certain
classes of cases, but only where the defendant was a railroad company, and it was adjIudged to be invalid because
it singled out a particular class of debtors and imposed
this burden upon them, without any reasonable ground
existing for the discrimination. The classification was
held to be arbitrary, because having no relation to the
special privileges granted to this class of corporations, or
to the peculiar features of their business, distinguishing
Missouri Pacific Railway Co. v.: Humes, 115 U. S. 512.

The present statute, however, differs in essential features. It applies to claims "against any person or corporation doing business in this State, for personal services
rendered or for labor done, or for material furnished, or for

overcharges on freight or express, or for any claim for lost
or damaged freight, or for stock killed or injured by such
person or corporation, its agents or employ6s." There is
here no classification of debtors; the act bears equally
against individuals and agabist corporations of any. class
doing business in the State. It applies only to certain
kinds of claims; but these cover a wide range, and do not
appear to have been grouped together for the purpose of
bearing against any class or ,classes of citizens or corporations. Unless something of this sort did appear, we should
not be justified in holding the act to be repugnant to the
Fourteenth Amendment.

It is a police regulation de-

signed to promote the prompt payment of small claims
and to discourage unnecessary litigation in respect to
them. The claims included appear to be such as are
susceptible of being readily adjusted by the party responsible, within the thirty days that must intervene
between the presentation of the claim and the institution
of suit. We may imagine that some other kinds of claims
might as well have been included; but it is to be presumed that the legislature was dealing with an actual
mischief, and made the act as broad in its scope as seemed

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

necessary from the practical standpoint. As has been said
before, the Fourteenth Amendment does not require that
state laws shall be perfect; and we cannot judicially denounce this act as based upon arbitrary distinctions, in
view of the wide discretion that must necessarily reside in
a state legislature about resorting to classification when
establishing regulations for the welfare of those for whom
they legislate. Magoun v. Illinois Trust & Savings Bank,
170 U. S. 283, 293; Orient Insurance Co. v. Daggs, 172
U. S. 557, 562; Louisville & Nashville R. R. v. Melton, 218
U. S. 36, 52; Lindsley v. Natural Carbonic Gas Co., 220
U. S. 61, 78.
It is insisted that the benefits of the act are conferred
upon natural persons only; but this we cannot concede, in
the absence of a decision by the courts of the State giving
to it a construction thus limited. Plymouth Coal Co. v.
Pennsylvania,232 U. S. 531, 546. And besides, plaintiff in
error is not in a position to assail the legislation on the
ground that corporation-plaintiffs are not included within
its benefits. Rosenthal v. New York, 226 U. S. 260, 271.
If the classification is otherwise reasonable, the mere
fact that attorney's fees are allowed to successful plaintiffs
only, and not to successful defendants, does not render the
statute repugnant to the "equal protection" clause. This
is not a discrimination between different citizens or classes
of citizens, since members of any and every class may
either sue or be sued. Actor and reus differ in their respective attitudes towards a litigation; the former has the
burden of seeking the proper jurisdiction and bringing the
proper parties before it, as well as the burden of proof
upon the main issues; and these differences may be made
the basis of distinctive treatment respecting the allowance
of an attorney's fee as a part of the costs. Atchison,
Topeka &c. Railroad v. Matthews, 174 U. S. 96; Farmers'
&c. Ins. Co. v. Dobney, 189 U. S. 301, 304; McMullin v,
Doughty, 68 N. J. Eq. 776, 781.

MISSOURI, KANSAS. & TEXAS RY. v. CADR. 651
233 U. S.

Ophrion of the Court.

Even were the statute to be considered as imposing a
penalty upon unsuccessful defendants in cases within its
sweep, such penalty is obviously imposed as an incentive
to prompt settlement of small but well-founded claims, and
as a deterrent of groundless defenses, which are the more
oppressive where the amount involved is small. In
*Seaboard Air Line v. Seegers, 207 U. S. 73, 77, the court
sustained a state enactment that imposed a fixed penalty
of -fifty dollars upon common carriers, to be recovered by
the party aggrieved, for failure to promptly adjust and
pay claimg for loss or damage to property while in the
carrier's possession. In Yazoo & Miss. R. R. v. Jackson
Vinegar Co., 226 U. S. 217, 219, we upheld a state enactment that imposed a. penalty of twenty-five dollais in
addition to actual damages for failure to settle claims for
lost or damaged freight within a limited time after written
notice of the loss. And in Kansas -City Southern Ry. v.
Anderson, decided this term, ante, p. 325, we upheld the
imposition of double damages in cases admitting of special
treatment.
But we think it is not correct to consider this statute as
imposing a penalty. The allowance is confined to a
reasonable attorney's fee, not exceeding twenty dollars,
where an attorney is actually employed; the amount to be
determined by the court or jury trying the case. Manifestly, the purpose is merely to require the defendant to.
reimburse the plaintiff for a part of his expenses not
otherwise recoverable as "costs of suit." So far as it
goes, it imposes only compensatory damages upon a
defendant who, in the judgment of the legislature, unreasonably delays and resists payment of a just demand.
The outlay for an attorney's fee is a necessary consequence
of the litigation, and since it must fall upon one party or
the other, it is reasonable to impose it upon the party
whose refusal to pay a just claim renders the litigation
necessary. The allowance of ordinary costs of suit to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1012.
Syllabus.

233 U. S.

prevailing party rests upon the same principle. 2 Bac.
Abr. tit. Costs. Numerous cases in the state courts have
sustained similar legislation. Vogel v. Pekoc, 157 Illinois,
339, 344, 346; Bu? lington &c. Ry. Co. v. Dey, 82 Iowa, 312,
340; Cameron v. Chicago &c. Ry. Co., 63 Minnesota, 384,
388; Wortman v. Kleinschmidt, 12 Montana, 316, 330. If a
reasonable penalty may be imposed for failure to satisfy
a demand found to be just, it follows a fortiori that costs
and an attorney's fee may be. See Atchison, Topeka &c.
Railroad v. Matthews, 174 U. S. 96, 105; Farmers' &c.
Ins. Co. v. Dobney, 189 U. S. 301, 304.
For these reasons, it seems to us that the statute in
question is not repugnant to either the "equal protection"
or the "due process" clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Judgment affirmed.

ENNIS

WATER

WORKS v. CITY

OF ENNIS.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
TEXAS.
No. 305.

Argued May 1, 4, 1914. T-Decided May 25, 1914.

Although when the assertion is made that contract rights are impaired
it is the duty of this court to determine for itself whether or not
there was a valid contract, in considering a contract arising from a
state law or a municipal ordinance this court will treat it as though

there was embodied in its text the settled rule of law which existed
in the State when the action relied upon was taken.
Where the state court based its decision on the ground that there was
no original legislative contract to be impaired under a rule of state

law which had been so conclusively established as to make the assertion that contract rights were impaired by subsequent legislation

