OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

233 U. S.

SEABOARD AIR LINE RAILWAY v. HORTON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH
CAROLINA.

No. 691.

Argued February 27, 1914.-Decided April 27, 1914.

A writ of error in terms returnable within thirty days from the date
thereof substantially complies with the return day provision in
clause 5 of Rule 8 of this court.
Where the state court of last resort sustained the trial court in overruling contentions made by the plaintiff in error, asserting a construction of the Employers' Liability Act which if acceded to would have
resulted in a verdict in his favor, this court has jurisdiction under
§ 237, Judicial Code.
Since Congress, by the Employers' Liability Act of 1908, took control
of the liability of carriers engaged in interstate transportation by
rail to employds injured while engaged in interstate commerce, all
state laws upon the subject have been superseded. Second Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1, 55.
Whatever may have been the common law rule theretofore, Congress,
in enacting the Employers' Liability Act, intended to, and did, base
the action on negligence only and excluded responsibility of the
carrier to its employ~s for defects and insufficiencies not attributable to negligence.
The provision diminishing liability of the carrier in case of contributory
negligence on the part of the injured employ6 except
where there
has been a violation by the carrier of any statute enacted for the
safety of employds, relates to Federal statutes only and not to
state statutes.
The Employers' Liability Act having expressly eliminated the defense
of assumption of risk in ceriaia specified cases, the intent of Congress
is plain that in all other cases such assumption shall have its former
effect as a bar to an action by the injured employ4.
When the employ6 knows of a defect in the appliances used by him and
appreciates the resulting danger and continues in the employmentwithout objection, or without obtaining from the employer an
assurance of reparation, he assumes the risk even though it may
arise from the employer's breach of duty.
Where there is promise of reparation by the employer, the continuing
on duty by the employ6 does not amount to assumption of risk
unless the danger be so imminent that no ordinarily prudent man
would rely on such promise.

SEABOARD AIR LINE v. HORTON.
233 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Under the Employers' Liability Act a defect in an appliance which
is not covered by any of the Federal Safety Acts does not leave the
employer absolutely responsible for the defect, but the common law
rule as to assumption of risk applies; and so held as to a defect in a
water gauge of which the engineer had knowledge before the accident
resulting therefrom.
162 No. Car. 77, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of the Federal Employers' Liability Acts of 1908 and 1910, and
the effect of those statutes on state laws in regard to liability of employers, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Benjamin Micou and Mr. MurrayAllen, with whom
Mr. Hilary A. Herbert and Mr. Richard P. Whiteley were
on the brief, for plaintiff inerror.
Mr. William C. Douglass and Mr. Clyde A. Douglass for
defendant in error:
There is no Federal question. Plaintiff in error has
been denied no right, privilege, or immunity under the
Employers' Liability Act and this court has no jurisdiction.
Plaintiff in error did not specifically claim, nor was it
denied, any right, privilege;, or immunity under the Employers' Liability Act.
Assumption of risk is a common-law defense and not a
creation of the Federal power.
Plaintiff in error elected to have the question of defendant in error's continuing to work in the face of a known
danger, tried under both the issue of contributory negligence and assumption of risk.
The record in this case shows clearly that the writ of
error was taken for delay only, and that the questions on
which the decision depends are so frivolous as .not to need
further argument, and that the case is of such a character
as not to justify extended argument.
The servant cannot assume the risk of the negligence of
the master.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

233 U. S.

This case was properly submitted to the jury upon the
doctrine of the ideal prudent man.
In support of these contentions, see Avandano v. Gay, 8
Wall. 377; Barber Asphalt Co. v. Austin, 186 Fed. Rep.
443; Burnett v. Atlantic Coast Line, 79 S. E. Rep. 414;
Bissell v. Lumber Co., 152 Nor. Car. 124; Bridgers v. St.
Louis R. R. Co., 6 Mo. App. 389; Craig v. Chicago R. R.
Co., 91 Michigan, 634; Consolidated &c. Co. v. Heanni, 35
N. E. Rep. 162; Deninger v. Am. Locomotive Co., 185 Fed.
Rep. 32; Fosburg v. Railroad Co., 94 N. Y. 374; Gotlich v.
RailroadCo., 100 N. Y. 467; Green v. Minn. & St. L. R. R.
Co., 39 Minnesota, 248; Gardnerv. Railroad Co., 150 U. S.
349; Hicks v. Manufacturing Co., 138 Nor. Car. 319; Hudson v. Railroad Co., 104 Nor. Car. 491; Hemarick v. Railway Co., 186 Fed. Rep. 142; Kane v. Nor. Cent. R. R. Co.,
112 U. S. 91; Lake Shore R. R. Co. v. McCormick, 79
Indiana, 440; Leggett v. Railroad Co., 152 Nor. Car. 111;
Mann v. Railroad Co., 111 Nor. Car. 482; Marks v. Cotton
Mills, 138 Nor. Car. 402; Murdock v. Memphis, 20 Wall.
590; N. Y. Elev. R. R. Co. v. Fifth Natl. Bank, 135 U. S.
432; Perkins v. So. Car. R. R. Co., 48 So. Car. 364; Penna.
R. R. Co. v. Hughes, 191 U. S. 478; Pressly v. Yarn Mills,
138 Nor. Car. 417; Schlacher v. Ashland Iron Co., 89
Michigan, 262; Sims v. Lindsay, 122 Nor. Car. 678; Sibbert v. Cotton Mills, 145 Nor. Car. 211; So. Pac. Co. v.
Yeargan, 109 Fed. Rep. 441; Snow v. Railroad, 8 Allen,
441; 1 Shear. & Redf. on Neg., § 194; Tanner v. Lumber
Co., 140 Nor. Car. 477; Un. Pac. R. R. Co. v. O'Brien, 161
U. S. 452; Worley v. Laurel River Co., 73 S. E. Rep. 107;
1 White on Personal Injuries, §§ 370, 377; Wright v. Yazoo
&c. R. R. Co., 197 Fed. Rep. 96.
The charge should be considered as a whole. The refusal to grant special requests to charge is not error, when
their substance is embraced in the instructions actually
given. Northern Pac. Ry. Co. v. Urlin, 158 U. S. 271;
Railroad Co. v. Leak, 163 U. S. 280; Laber v. Cooper, 7

SEABOARD AIR LINE v. HORTON.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Wall. 565; Mining Co. v. Chee.seman, 116 U. S. 529; Insurance Co. v. Ursur, 144 U. S. 439; Ayers v. Watson, 113
U. S. 594.
MR. JUSTICE PiTNm

delivered the opinion of the court.

Horton sued the Seaboard Air Line Railway in the
Superior Court of Wake County, North Carolina, to recover damages for personal injuries sustained by him
while in defendant's employ as a locomotive engineer.
The actioi was brought under the Federal Employers'
Liability Act of April 22, 1908, c. 149, 35 Stat. 65, as
amended April 5, 1910, c. 143, 36 Stat. 291. In the complaint it was sifficiently averred that defendant was a
corporation operating a line of railway as a common carrier in interstate commerce, and that plaintiff at the time
he was injured was employed by defendant in such commerce. These facts were not in issue at the trial.
As to the circumstances of the occurrence of the injury,
plaintiff's evidence tended to' show that on July 27, 1910,
defendant's locomotive engine No. 752 was placed in his
charge; that it was equipped with a Buckner water gauge,
a device attached to the boiler head for the purpose of
showing the level of the water in the boiler, and consisting
of a brass frame or case inclosing a thin glass tube which
communicated with the boiler above and below, in such
manner that the tube received water and steam direct
from the boiler and under the full boiler pressure. In order
to shield the engineer from injury in case of the bursting
of the tube, a piece of ordinary glass, 2 or 3 inches wide,
8 or 9 inches long, and about half an inch thick, known
as a guard glass, should have been provided, this being a
part of the regular equipment of the Buckner water gauge.
There were slots for receiving the guard glass and holding
it in position in front of the water tube. At each end of the
tube, valves were provided for the purpose of disconnect-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

ing it from the boiler. As an alternative but probably
less convenient method of determining the level of the
water in the boiler, ordinary gauge cocks were provided.
Plaintiff was an experienced locomotive engineer, and,
according to his own testimony, was fully aware of the
function of the guard glass and of its importance to his
safety. He testified that when he took the engine out on
his first trip on July 27, he observed that the guard glass
was missing; that on his return upon the following day he
reported this to defendant's round-house foreman, to
whom reports of such defects were properly made, and
asked him for a guard glass; that the foreman Stated there
were none in stock at that place, and it Would be necessary
to send to a distance to get one; that he would do this, and
that plaintiff should meanwhile run the engine without
one; and that, having ineffectually endeavored to get a
guard glass from another source, plaintiff proceeded to
drive the engine with the use of the unguarded water
gauge until August 4, when the glass exploded and flying
fragments struck him in the face, causing the injuries
upon which his claim for damages was based.
Defendant's evidence tended to show that when the
engine was placed in plaintiff's charge on July 27 the water
glass was in good condition, with a guard glass in place;
that the gauge cocks were likewise in good working order;
that it was the duty of a locomotive engineer to inspect
his engine and know that it was in proper order before
taking it out, and if not in proper order to make a written
report to the round-house foreman specifying the defects;
that if anything should happen to the water glass it was
the engineer's duty to close the valves so as to exclude the
steam pressure from it, and run the engine with the gauge
cocks, and that these were sufficient for the purpose; and
that plaintiff made repeated reports in writing between
July 27 and the time of his injury mentioning other things
needed about his engine, but making no mention of the

SEABOARD AIR L]:NE v. HORTON.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

water gauge or the guard glass. The fireman testified
specifically that when plaintiff took charge of the engine
on the morning of the 27th the water glass had the shield
or guard in front of it, but that it was smoky, so that one
could not see through it; that he, the fireman, in the
presence of plaintiff, removed the guard glass in order to
clean it; and that in plaintiff's presence it became broken.
The round-house foreman specifically denied plaintiff's
testimony about the complaint and the promise of reparation.
Under ifstructions presently to be noticed, the case
was submitted to the jury upon three issues, to which responses were made as follows:
(1) Was the plaintiff injured by defendant's negligence?
Answer, Yes.
(2) If so, did plaintiff assume the risk of injury? Answer, No.
(3) Did plaintiff by his own negligence contribute to
his injury? Answer, Yes.
The jury also assessed substantial damages, for which
judgment was rendered by the trial court, and upon appeal
the Supreme Court affirmed the judgment, 162 Nor. Car.
424. The case comes here, under § 237, Judicial Code,
upon questions arising out of instructions given and refused to be given to the jury as to the nature of the duty
of the employer and the rules respecting assumption of
risk and contributory negligence under the Federal Employers' Liability Act.
There is a motion to dismiss, upon the ground that no
return day is specified in the writ of error or citation.
Carroll v. Dorsey (1857), 20 How. 204, 207, and Sea v.
Connecticut Mutual Life Ins. Co. (1880), 154 U. S. 659, are
relied upon. These decisions were based upon § 22 of
the Judiciary Act of September 24, 1789, c. 20, 1 Stat. 73,
84, which was held to require a certain return day to be
specified in the writ of e: ror. Accordingly, General Rule
VOL. ccxxxiii-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

33, promulgated. December Term, 1867 (6. Wall. vi),
afterwards found as Clause 5 of Rule 8 of the revised
rules promulgated January 7, 1884 (108 U. S. 577), required that the writ of error and citation should be returnable on the first day of the term in cases where final
judgment was rendered more than thirty days before that
day, and on the third Monday of the term in cases where
judgment was rendered less than thirty days before the
first day. Blatch. U. S. Ct. Rules 77. But under the
authority conferred by Rev. Stat., § 917, the court, on
January 26, 1891, amended Clause 5 of Rule 8 so as to
read: "All appeals, writs of error, and citations must be
made returnable not exceeding thirty days from the day
of signing the citation, whether the return day fall in
vacation or in term time, and be served before the return
day," (137 U. S. 710). And in the present Rule as promulgated December 22, 19.11 (222 U. S., Appendix, p. 14),
the same language is retained, with an exception extending the time to sixty days in writs of error and appeals
from the western States, and Alaska, Hawaii and Porto
Rico, and to one hundred and twenty days as to the
Philippine Islands. An extension of the time in favor of
the more distant States and Territories was Rrst introduced as Clause 3 of Original Rule 63, promulgated at
December Term, 1853 (16 How. ix), and has been continued, with amendments, until the present time (21
How. viii; 2 Wall. viii; 108 U. S. 578). It has, however,
no bearing upon the form of the writ or citation, aside
from the limit of time that may be allowed between date
and return.
The present writ of error and citation were dated the
fourth day of August, 1913, and in terms were returnable
"within thirty days from the date hereof." This form has
been usually employed, with the approval of the court,
since the amendment of the rule made in 1891, as mentioned. It is a substantial compliance with the present

SEABOARD AIR LINE v. HORTON.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

rule, and tends to avoid errors that otherwise might be
made in inserting a day certain as a return day.
This motiqn must therefore be denied.
A second motion to dismiss, based upon grounds still
more technical, and which need not be particularly stated,
will likewise be denied.
There is a further motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction, upon the ground that no right, privilege, or immunity under the Employers' Liability Act was especially
set up or claimed in the state court of last resort and by
that court denied. But since that court sustained the
trial court in overruling certain contentions made by
plaintiff in error asserting a construction of the act which,
if acceded to, would presumably have produced a verdict
in its favor, and consequent immunity from the action,
this motion must be denied, upon the authority of St.
Louis, Iron Mountain & Southern Ry. v. McWhirter,
229 U. S. 265.
Coming now to the merits, we need consider only certain assignments of error that are based upon exceptions
to the action of the trial judge in giving and refusing to
give instructions relating to the issues of defendant's
negligence, the assumption of risk, and contributory
negligence.
At the outset we observe that the judge evidently
misapprehended the effect of the Federal act upon state
legislation. Thus, the jury was told that plaintiff had
brought the action under the Federal statute; "And where
Congress enacts a law, within the limits of its power, that
law should be enforced -uniformly throughout the entire
United States. If it is in conflict with the state law, the
state law is superseded, but where there is no conflict
expressed by the statute of the United States, then the
rule of the State prevails." This, of course, in the ab-"
sence of a specific statement of the applicable rule of. the
state law, might be treated as academic. But the theory

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

was carried into the specific instructions, to the extent
that upon the. questions of the employer's duty and the
assumption of risk by the employ6, the. charge was
modeled rather upon the North Carolina statute than
upon the act of Congress. By § 2646, Nor. Car. Revisal
of 1905, "Any servant or employ6 of any railroad company operating in this State who shall suffer injury to
his person, or the personal representative of any such
servant or employ6 who shall have suffered death in the
course of his services or employment with such company
by the negligence, carelessness or incompetence of any
other servant,- employ6 or agent of the company, or by
any defect in the machinery, ways or appliances of the
company, shall be entitled to maintain an action against
such company. Any contract or agreement, expressed
or implied, made by any employ6 of such company to
waive the benefit of this section shall be null and void."
Upon the issue of .defendant's negligence, the trialcourt
charged the jury as follows: "It is the-duty of the defendant to provide a reasonably safe place for the plaintiff
to work, and to furnish him with reasonably safe appliances with which to do his work." And in various other
forms the-notion was expressed that the duty of defendant was absolute with respect to the safety of the place
or work and of the appliances for the work. Thus: "If
you find from the evidence that it [the locomotive engine]
was turned over to him without the guard, and if you
further find from the evidence that the guard was a proper
safety provision for the use of that gauge, and that it was
unsafe without it, then the defendant did not furnish
him a safe place and a safe appliance to do his work,
and if it remained in that condition it was continuing
negligence on the part of the defendant, and if he was
injured in consequence thereof, if you so find by the
greater weight of the evidence, you should answer the
first issue 'Yes."'

SEABOARD AIR LINE v. HORTON.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

In these instructions the trial judge evidently adopted
the same measure of respon~sibility respecting the character and safe condition of the place of work, and the
appliances for the doing of the work, that is prescribed
by the local statute. But it is settled that since Congress, by the act of 1908, took possession of the field of
the employer's liability to employ~s in interstate transportation by rail, all state laws upon the subject are
superseded. Second Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S.
1, 55.
The Act is quoted in full in that case at p. 6. By its
first section a right of action isconferred (under conditions
specified) for injury or death of the emptoy6 "resulting in
whole or in part from the negligence of any of the officers,
agents, or employ~s of such carrier, or by reason of any
defect or insufficiency, due to its negligence, in its cars, engines, appliances, machinery, track, roadbed, works, boats,
wharves, or other equipment."
This clause has two branches: the one covering the
negligence of any of the officers, agents, or employ~s
of the carrier, which has the effect of abolishing in this
class of cases the common law rule that exempted the
employer from responsibility for the negligence of a
fellow employ6 of the plaintiff; and the other relating to
defects and insufficiencies in the cars, engines, appliances,
etc. But, plainly, with respect to the latter as well as
the former ground of liability, it was the intention of
Congress to base the action upon negligence only, and to
exclude responsibility of the carrier to its employ~s for
defects and insufficiencies not attributable to negligence.
The common law rule is that an employer is not a guarantor
of the safety of the place of work or of the machinery and
appliances of the work; the extent of its duty to its employ6s is to see that ordinary care and prudence are
exercised, to the end that the place in which the work is
to be performed and the tools and appliances of the work

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

may be safe for the workmen. Hough v. Railway Co.,
100 U. S. 213, 217; Washington & Georgetown RailroadCo.
v. McDade, 135 U. S. 554, 570; Choctaw, Oklahoma & Gulf
R. R. Co. v. McDade, 191 U. S. 64, 67. To hold that under
the statute the railroad company is liable for the injury
or death of an employ6 resulting from any defect or insufficiency in its cars, engines, appliances, etc., however
caused, is to take from the act the words" due to its negligence." The plain effect of these words is to condition
the liability upon negligence; and had there been doubt
before as to the common law rule, certainly the Act now
limits the responsibility of the company as indicated.
The instructions above quoted imposed upon the employer an absolute responsibility for the safe condition
of the appliances of the work, instead of limiting the responsibility to the exercise of reasonable care. In effect,
the jury was instructed that the absence of the guard
glass was conclusive evidence of defendant's negligence.
In this there was error.
The questions more particularly discussed, however,
and upon which the decision seems to have turned in
the Supreme Court of North Carolina, pertain to the
issues of assumption of risk and contributory negligence.
By § 3 of the act of 1908 it is declared that "The fact
that the employ6 may have been guilty of contributorynegligence shall not bar a recovery, but the damages
shall be diminished by, the jury in proportion to the amount
of negligence attributable to such employ6: Provided, that
no such employ6 who may be injured or killed shall be
held to have been guilty of contributory negligence in
any case where the violation by such common carrier
of any statute enacted for the safety of employ~s contributed to the injury or death of such employ6." And
by § 4, "Such employ6 shall not be held to have assumed
the risks of his employment in any case where the violation by such common carrier of any statute enacted for

SEABOARD AIR LINE v. HORTON.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the safety of employ6s contributed to the injury or death
of such employ6."
By the phrase "any statute enacted for the safety of
employ6s," Congress evidently intended Federal statutes,
such as the Safety Appliance Acts, (March 2, 1893, c. 196,
27 Stat. 531; March 2, 1903, c. 976, 32 Stat. 943; April 14,
1910, c. 160, 36 Stat. 298; February 17, 1911, c. 103, 36
Stat. 913); and the Hours of Service Act (February 4, 1907,
c. 2939, 34 Stat. 1415). For it is not to be conceived that,
in enacting a general law for establishing and enforcing
the responsibility of common carriers by railroad to their
employ~s in interstate commerce, Congress intended to
permit the legislatures of the several States to determine
the effect of contributory negligence and assumption of
risk, by enacting statutes for tho safety of employ~s,
since this would in effect relegate to state control two
of the essential factors that determine the responsibility
of the employer.
It seems to us that § 4, in eliminating the defense of
assumption of risk in the cases indicated, quite plainly
evidences the legislative intent that in all other cases such
assumption shall have its former effect as a complete bar
to the action. And, taking §§ 3 and 4 together, there is
no doubt that Congress recognized the distinction between contributory negligence and assumption of risk;
for, while it is declared that neither of these shall avail the
carrier in cases where the violation of a statute has contributed to the injury or death of the empl6y4, there is, with
respect to cases not in this category, a limitation upon the
effect that is to be given to contributory negligence, while
no corresponding limitation is imposed upon the defense
of assumption of risk--rperhaps none was deemed feasible.
The distinction, although simple, is sometimes overlooked. Contributory negligence involves the notion of
some fault or breach of duty on the part of the employ6,
and since it is ordinarily his duty to take some precaution

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opipion of the Court.

233 U. S.

for his own safety when engaged. in a hazardous occupation, contributory negligence is sometimes defined as a
failure to use such care for his safety as ordinarily prudent
employ~s in similar circumstances would use. On the
other hand, the assumption of risk, even though the risk
be obvious, may be free from any suggestion of fault or
negligence on the part of the employ6. The risks may
be present, notwithstanding the exercise of all reasonable
care on his part. Some employments are necessarily
fraught with danger to the workman--danger that must
be and is confronted in the line of his duty. Such dangers
as are normally and necessarily incident to the occupation
are presumably taken into the account in fixing the rate
of wages. And a workman of mature years is taken to
assume risks of this sort, whether he is actually aware of
them or not. But risks of another sort, not naturally
incident to the occupation, may arise out of the failure
of the employer to exercise due care with respect to providing a safe place of work and suitable and safe appliances
for the work. These the employ6 is not treated as assuming until he becomes aware of the defect or disrepair
and of the risk arising from it, unless defect and risk alike
are so obvious that an ordinarily prudent person under
the circumstances would have observed and appreciated
them.. These distinctions have been recognized and applied in numerous decisions of this court. Choctaw, Oklahoma & Gulf R. Co. v. McDade, 191 U. S. 64, 68;
Schlemmer v. Buffalo, Rochester & Pittsburgh Ry. Co., 220
U. S. 590, 596; Tex. & Pac. Ry. Co. v. Harvey, 228 U. S.
319, 321; Gila Valley Ry. Co. v. Hall, 232 U. S. 94, 102,
and cases cited.
When the employ6 does know of the defect, and
appreciates the risk that is attributable to it, then if he
continues in the employment, without objection, or without obtaining from the employer or his representative an
assurance that the defect will be remedied, the employ6

SEABOARD AIR LINE v. HORTON.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

assumes the risk, even though it arise out of the master's
breach of duty. If, however, there be a promise of reparation, then during such time as may be reasonably required for its performance or until the particular time
specified for its performance, the employ6 relying upon
the promise does not assume the risk unless at least the
danger be so imminent that no ordinarily prudent man
under the circumstances would rely upon such promise.
Hough v. Railway Co., 100 U. S. 213, 224; Southwestern
Brewery v. Schmidt, 226 U. S. 162, 168. This branch of
the law of master and servant seems to be traceable to
Holmes v. Clarke, 6 Hurl. & Norm. 348; Clarke v. Holmes,
7 Hurl. & Norm. 937.
In the light of these principles, the rulings of the trial
court in the case at bar must be considered.
Defendant specifically requested an instruction that
plaintiff's right to recover damages was to be determined
by the provisions of the Federal act, and that "If you
find by a preponderance of evidence that the water glass
on the engine on which plaintiff was employed was not
provided with a guard glass, and the condition of the glass
was open and obvious anid was fully known to plaintiff,
and he continued to use such water glass with such knowledge and without objection, and that he knew the risk
incident thereto, then the court charges you that the
plaintiff voluntarily assumed the risk incident to such
use, and you will answer the second issue 'Yes."' The
court gave this instruction as applicable to the issue of contributory negligence, and instead of the words "then the
court charges you that the plaintiff voluntarily assumed
the risk incident to such use, and you will answer the
second issue 'Yes,'" used the words, "then the court
charges you that the plaintiff was guilty of contributory
negligence, and you will answer the third. issue 'Yes.'"
To the refusal to give the instruction as requested, and
the modification of it, defendant excepted.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

The trial court evidently deemed, as did the state
Supreme Court, that the topic of assumption of risk,
with reference to the circumstances of the case, was sufficiently and properly covered by an instruction actually
given as follows: after stating in general terms that "A
man assumes the risk, when he takes employment, incident to the class of work which he has to perform," but
that "He does not assume the risk incident to the negligence of his employer in providing machinery and appliances with which he has to work," the court proceeded
as follows:
"On the other hand the employer has the right to
assume that his employ6 will go about the work in a
reasonably safe way, and give due regard to the machinery
and appliances which are in his hands and under his control, and if you should find from the evidence, by its
greater weight, because the burden in this instance is on
the defendant, that the plaintiff knew of the absence of
the guard or shield to the water gauge and failed to give
notice to the defendant or to the agent whose duty it was
to furnish the water gauge and appliance, and he continued
to use it without giving that notice, it being furnished to
him in a safe condition, then he assumed the risk incident
to his work in the engine with the glass water gauge in that
condition, although he might have handled his engine in
every other respect with perfect care." [Italics ours.]
It will be observed that by this instruction the application of the rule of assumption of risk was conditioned upon
the jury finding that the water gauge, when furnished to
plaintiff, was in a safe condition. Here again the court
appears to have followed the local statute, rather than the
act of Congress; for § 2646, Nor. Car. Revisal of 1905,
already quoted, has been held by the state Supreme Court
to abolish assumption of risk as a bar to an action by a
railroad employ6 for an injury attributable to defective
appliances furnished by the employer. Coley v. Railroad

SEABOARD AIR LINE v. HORTON.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Co., 128 Nor. Car. 534. The trial court, while recognizing
that the act of Congress applied so far as its terms extended, and that by its terms the employ6 is not to be
held to have assumed the risk in any case where the violation by the carrier of a statute .enacted for the safety of
employfs contributed to the injury, at the same time
held that,' since no statute had been enacted covering
such an appliance as the glass water gauge, the rights of
plaintiff were such as he would have under the state law.
An instruction to the jury to this effect preceded the instructions we have just quoted.
It is true that such an appliance as the water gauge and
guard glass in question is not covered by the provisions
of the Safety Appliance Act, or any other law passed by
Congress for the safety of employs, in force at the time
this action arose. But the necessary result of this is, not
to leave the employer responsible for the consequences of
any defect in such an appliance, excluding the common
law rule as to assumption of risk, but to leave the matter in
this respect open to the ordinary application of the common law rule. The adoption of the opposite view would
in effect leave the several state laws, and not the act of
Congress, to control the subject-matter.
By the instruction as given, the application of the rule
of assumed risk was confined to the single hypothesis that
the jury should find the guard glass was in position when
the engine was delivered to plaintiff on the morning of
July 27. This, as already pointed out, was one of the
questions in dispute; plaintiff having testified that the
guard glass was missing at that time, while his fireman
testified (and in this was corroborated by circumstantial
evidence) that it was in place at that time, and was subsequently broken. But by the common law, with respect to the assumption by the employ6 of the risk of
injuries attributable to defects due to the employer's
negligence, when known and appreciated by the employ6

OCTOBER TERM, 1013.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

and not made the subject of objection or complaint by
him, it is quite immaterial whether the defect existed when
the appliance was first placed in his charge, or subsequently arose. Hence, if the guard glass was missing
when plaintiff first took the engine, as he testified, and he,
knowing of its absence and the consequent risk to himself,
continued to use the water gauge without giving notice
of the defect to the defendant or its representative, he
assumed the risk.
Defendant was entitled to have the requested instruction given respecting assumption of risk, and as the charge
actually given did not cover the same ground, there was
error.
Its harmful effect is conspicuously evident when we note
that the jury, while finding that plaintiff did not assume
the risk, at the same time found that he did by his own
negligence contribute to his injury. Presumably, if instructed in the manner requested by defendant, the jury
would have found that the risk was assumed, and this
would have entitled defendant to a judgment in its favor,
instead of a mere mitigation of the damages, which was the
consequence of a finding of contributory negligence.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of North Carolina
must be reversed, and the cause remanded for further.,
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

