HAMMOND PACKING CO. v. MONTANA.
233 U. S.

331

Argument f'or Plaintiff in Error.

HAMMOND PACKING COMPANY v. STATE OF

MONTANA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MONTANA.
No. 278. Submitted March 11, 1914.-Decided April 13, 1914.
So long as it.does not interfere with interstate commerce, a State may
restrict the manufacture of oleomargarine in a way that does not
hamper that of butter. The classification is reasonable and does not
offend the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
CapitalCity DairyCo. v. Ohio, 183 U. S. 238.
A State may forbid the manufacture of oleomargarine altogether
without violating the due process or equal protection provisions
of the Fourteenth Amendment. Powell v. Pennsylvania, 127 U. S.
678.
A State may express and carry out its policy in restricting and forbidding the manufacture of articles either by police, or by revenue,
legislation. Quong Wing v. Kirkendall, 223 U. S. 59.
45 Montana, 343, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under

the due process and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment of a statute of Montana imposing
a license tax on the carrying on of the business of selling
oleomargarine, axe stated in the opinion.
Mr. M. S. Gunn for plazintiff in error:

The statute providing for a license tax of one cent per
pound on sales of oleomargarine, butterine and imitation
cheese denies to plaintiff due process of law and the equal
protection of the Laws in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment.
The Supreme Court of the State decided that the tax
is imposed for the purpose of revenue in the exercise of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

233 U. S.

taxing power and that the imposition of such tax is authorized by the constitution of the State.
The oleomargarine sold, after having been received,
stored and held for sale in Silver Bow County, was subject to.the taxing power of the State. Am. Steel & Wire
Co. v. Speed, 192 U. S. 500; Kehrer v. Stewart, 197 U. S.60;
McCray v. United States, 195 U. S.53.
The legislative assembly of Montana is authorized
to classify for the purpose of taxation and may lawfully
impose a tax upon one class of property or one occupation
to the exclusion of other property ind other occupations.
Southwestern Oil Co. v. Texas, 217 U. S.114.
The only inquiry is whether .the placing of oleomargarine, butterine and imitation of cheese in a separate class
for the purpose of taxation is a legitimate exercise .of the
taxing power and whether such a classification is not arbitrary, unreasonable and discriminatory, and in violation of the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment.
Oleomargarine is a wholesome article of food, a recognized article of commerce, and its manufacture and sale
cannot be prohibited by a State. Schollenberger v. Pennsylvania, 171 U. S.1; Collins v. New Hampshire, 171 U. S.
30.
While the State can, in the exercise of the police power,
provide reasonable regulations with reference to the manufacture and sale of oleomargarine in order to prevent
deception and fraud and in the interest of the health of the'
people of the State, Capital City Dairy Co. v. Ohio, 183
U. S.238, it may not abuse the taxing power. See Spencer
v. Merchant, 125 U. S.345; Cooley on Taxation (3d ed.),
p. 1133.
No classification for the purpose of taxation is reasonable or justifiable, unless all articles used for the same purpose, and which are sold in competition, are placed in the
same class. Such a classification as is made by this statute

HAMMOND PACKING CO. v. MONTANA.
233 U. S.

333

Opinion of the Court.

under consideration does violence to the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Connolly v.
Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540; Gulf, Col. &c. R. R.
v. Ellis, 165U. S. 150. McCray v. United States, 195 U. S.
27, distinguished.
Mr. D. M. Kelly, Attorney General of the State
of Montana, and Mr. J. H. Alvord, for defendant in
error.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMEs delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is an action to recover a license-tax of one cent per
pound sold for carrying on the business of selling oleomargarine. The answer, with some allegations not now
material, admitted the facts and set up that ยง 4064 of the
Political Code of Montana as amended by ยง 2763, Revised Codes, by which the tax was imposed, violates the
Fourteenth Amendment. That is-the only question raised
here, so that other incidental or preliminary matters need
not be mentioned. Judgment was entered for the State
on the pleadings and the judgment was affirmed by the
Supreme Court of the State.
The argument for the -plaintiff in error is that, the tax
being pronounced or assumed by the state courts to be
a tax for revenue, it is unjustifiable to put oleomargarine
in a class by itself and to discriminate, for instance, between it and butter. But we see no obstacle to doing so
in the Constitution of the United States. Apart from interference with commerce among the States, a State may
restrict the manufacture of oleomargarine in a way in
which it does not hamper that of butter. Capital City
Dairy Co. v. Ohio, 183 U. S. 238, 245, 246. It even may
forbid the manufacture altogether.. Powell v. Pennsylvania, 127 U. S. 678. It may express and carry out its

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.'

233 U. S.

policy as well in a. revenue as in a police law. Quong Wing
v. Kirdendall, 223 U. S. 59, 62. The case really has been
disposed of by previous decisions of. this court. McCray

v. United State8, 195 U. S. 27, 62, 63.
Judgment affirmed.

CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE AND ST. PAUL RAILWAY
COMPANY v. STATE OF IOWA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
No. 176.

Argued March 3, 1914.-Decided April 13, 1914.

Whether commerce is interstate or intrastate must be determined by
the essential character of the commerce and not by mere billing or

forms of contract.
The reshipment of an interstate shipment by the consignees in the cars
in which received to other points of destination does not necessarily
establish a continuity of movement or prevent the shipment to a
point within the same State from having an independent and intrastate character.
In this case, held, that shipments of coal when reshipped, after arrival
from points without the State and acceptance by the consignees,
to points within the State on new 4nd regular billing forms constituted intrastate shipments and were subject to the jurisdiction of
the State Railroad Commission.
Whether the common law or statutory provisions apply to a case is for
the state court to determine, and so held, that in Iowa the State
Railroad Commission has power under the state law to require
common carriers to use the equipment of connecting carriers to
transport shipments from the points of original destination to other
points within the State.
A State may, so long as it acts within its own jurisdiction and not in
hostility to any Federal regulation of interstate commerce, compel
a carrier to accept, for further -reshipment over its lines to poiits
within the State, cars already loaded and in suitable condition; and
an order to that effect by the State Railroad Commission is not

