TEXAS CEMENT CO. v. McCORD.
233 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

whatever terms the railroad company may see fit to offer,
and may not hope to be furnished with even a scrap of
paper to indicate what those terms Are.
I can find no support for the result thus reached, either
in the statute or in any previous decision.

UNITED STATES EX REL. TEXAS PORTLAND
CEMENT COMPANY v. McCORD.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 234.

Argued March 6, 1.914.-Decided April 6, 1914.

When the purpose of Congress is stated in such plain terms that there
is no uncertainty, and no construction is required, it is unnecessary
to inquire into the motives which induced the legislation. The only

province of the courts in such a case is to enforce the statute in accordance with its terms.
Limitations specified in the statute creating a new liability are a part
of the right conferred and compliance therewith is essential to the
assertion of the right conferred by the statute.
An amendment dates back to the filing of the petition and is to supply
defects in the petition with reference to the cause of action then
existing, or at most to bring into the suit grounds of action which did
exist at the beginning of the case..
Under the act of August 13, 1894, as amended by the act of February 24, 1905, a materialman or laborer may not bring suit on the contractor's bond in the Federal court in the name of the United States
for his use and benefit, within six months from completion and
settlement, even though the United States has not asserted any, and
has no, claim against the contractor or his sureties.
Where the original bill was premsturely filed, an intervention after the
six month, and before the twelve month, period is not effectual as
such or as an original bill.
An amended bill filed more than one year after completion of the work
and settlement, if treated as an original bill, is fied too late.

facts, which involve the construction of the materialman's act of February '24, 1905, and the rights of contractors thereunder, are stated in the opinion,
THE

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

Mr. Francis Marion Etheridge, with whom Mr. Joseph
Manson McCormick was on the brief, for the relators,
Texas Portland Cement Company et al.
Mr. Charles W. Starling, with whom Mr. W. F. Robertson was on the brief, for McCord and National .Surety
Company of New York.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is here upon a certificate from the United
States Circuit Court of Appeals for the' Fifth Circuit.
The pertinent facts certified are:
The United States upon the relation and for the use and
benefit of the Texas Portland Cement Company and others
brought suit in the United States Circuit Court for the
Northern District of Texas, on January 3, 1910, against
D. C. McCord, as the principal, and the National Surety
Company of New York, as surety, on a certain bond
dated March 19, 1906, given in conformity to the act of
February 24, 1905 (c. 778, 33 Stat. 811), for the performance by McCord of a contract for the erection of certain
public works for which they had furnished labor and material. The petition was filed after the completion of the
contract and final settlement between the contractor and
the United States, and it was alleged that the United
States had no claim or cause of action against the defendants and would not bring suit within six months from
the completion and settlement of the contract, nor at any
other time. An appropriate order for service and publication was had. Many creditors intervened in the case,
among others W. Illingsworth, who on May 25, 1910
(more than six and less than twelve months after final
completion and settlement) filed an intervention in accordance with the act, which constituted a complete bill, purporting to be also for the benefit of the plaintiffs in the

TEXAS CEMENT CO. v. McCORD.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

original suit and others intervening in the cause, and in
which he prayed, if the recovery on the bond should be
inadequate to pay all claim,, in full, for a pro ratajudgment.
Subsequently, on January 9, 1911, the original plaintiffs
filed an amended original petition, elaborating the allegations of their original petition and averring among other
things that the Government had no claim against the defendants and therefore had not within six months from
the completion and settlement of the contract, brought
suit against them, and did not have the legal right to
maintain such suit, except upon the relation of a creditor.
Illingsworth dismissed his intervention on February 2,
1911, and thereafter the court ordered that his petition
and petition in intervention be dismissed.
The allegations of the petition were sustained by proof,
and a plea in abatement filed by the Surety Company was
heard upon an agreement and statement in open court
to the effect that the contract was completed on Octo"
ber 12, 1909, and settlement was made on November 11,
1909, and that the Government thereafter neither had nor
asserted any claim, demand or cause of action against the
defendants on the contract or bond. The Circuit Court
thereupon dismissed the suit, and the case was taken to
the Circuit Court of Appeals upon error.
The questions certified are:
"First. Under the provisions of the Act of August 13,
1894 (28 Stat. 278), as amended by the Act of February 24,
1905 (33 Stat. 811), may persons, who furnish material
and perform labor in the construction of governmental
works, bring suit, on the bond of the contractor in the
Federal Court in the name of the United States for their
use and benefit, within six months from the completion
of the works and final settlement of the contract, where it
appears of record and was agreed by the parties in open
court, that after performance and settlement of the contract, the 'United States neither had nor asserted any

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

claims, demands or cause of action either against the con-

tractor or the sureties on his bond?
"Second. If the original bill was prematurely filed, was
a right of action saved to the parties, so filing the same, by
the intervention of Illingsworth, which was filed after the
six months but before the expiration of the twelve months'
period, and the amended bill, filed more than one year
after the completion and settlement of the contract between the Government and the contractor?"
The differences in the act of February 24, 1905, and the
former statute of August 13, 1894, c. 280, 28 Stat. 278,
were pointed out by this court in the case of Mankin v.
Ludowici-Celadon Co., 215 U. S. 533, and need not be repeated here. The act of 1905 1provides that the persons
1

That hereafter any person or persons entering into a formal contract
with the United States for the construction of any public building, or
the prosecution and completion of any public work, or for repairs
upon any public building or public work, shall be required, before
commencing such work, to execute the usual penal bond, with good
and sufficient sureties, with the additional obligation that such contractor or contractors shall promptly make payments to all persons
supplying him or them with labor and materials in the prosecution of
the work provided for in such contract; and any person, company,
or corporation who has furnished labor or materials used in the construction or repair of any public building or public work, and payment for
which has not been made, shall have the right to intervene and be made
a party to any action instituted by the United States on the.bond of
the contractor, and to have their rights and claims adjudicated in such
action and judgment rendered thereon, subject, however, to the priority of the claim and judgment of the United States. If the full amount
of the liability of the surety on said bond is insufficient to pay the full
amount of said claims and demands, then, after paying the full amount
due the United States, the remainder shall be distributed pro rata
among said interveners. If no suit should be brought by the United
States within six months from the completion and final settlement of
said contract, then the person or persons supplying the contractor
with labor and materials shall, upon application therefor, and furnishing affidavit to the Department under the direction of which said work
has been prosecuted that labor or materials for the prosecution -of

TEXAS CEMENT CO. v. McCORD
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

named as beneficiaries under the bond may intervene and
have their rights adjudicated in an action instituted by the
United States in which priority of claim is to be given to the
United States for any judgment recovered in the case. It
is also provided that, "if no suit should be brought by the
United States within six months from the completion and
final settlement of said contract," then the persons supplysuch work has been supplied by him or them, and' payment for which
has not been made, be furnished with a certified copy of said contract
and bond, upon which he or they shall have a right of action and shall
be, and are hereby, authorized to bring suit in the name of the United
States in the circuit court of the United States in the district in which
said contract was to be performed and executed, irrespective of the
amount in controversy in such suit, and not elsewhere, for his or their
use and benefit, against said contractor and his sureties, and to prosecute the same to final judgment and execution: Provided, That where
suit is instituted by any of such creditors on the bond of the contractor
it shall not be commenced until after the complete performance of
said contract and final settlement thereof, and shall be commenced
within one year after the performance and final settlement of said
contract, and not later: And provided further, That where suit is so
instituted by a creditor or by creditors, only one action shall be brought,
and any creditor may file his claim in such action and be made party
thereto within one year from the completion of the work under said
contract, and not later. If the recovery on the bond should be inadequate to pay the amounts found due to all of said creditors, judgment
shall be given to each creditor pro rata of the amount of the recovery.
The surety on said bond may pay into court, for distribution among
said claimants and creditors, the iull amount of the sureties' liability,
to wit, the penalty named in the bond, less any amount which said
surety may have had to pay to the United States by reason of the execution of said bond, and upon so doing the surety will'be relieved from
further liability: Provided further, That in all suits instituted under
the provisions of this Act such personal notice of the pendency of such
suits, informing them of their right to intervene as the court may order,
shall be given to all known creditors, and in addition thereto notice
of publication in some newspaper of general circulation, published in
the State or town where the contract is being performed, for at least
three successive weeks, the last publication to be at least three months
before the time limited therefor.

VOL. CCXXXIII-11

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

ing labor; etc., upon taking certain steps to get a certified
copy of the bond, "are hereby authorized to bring suit in
the name of the United States," etc., provided that suits
by creditors of the contractor "shall not be commenced
until after the complete performance of said contract and
final settlement thereof, and shall be commenced within
one year after the performance and final settlement of
said contract, and not later." And it is further provided
"that where suit is so instituted by a creditor or creditors,
only one action shall be brought, and any creditor may
file his claim in such action and be made party thereto
within one year from the completion of the work under
said contract, and not later." It is further provided that
in all suits instituted under the act such personal notice
of the pendency of the suit shall be given as the court may
order, informing known creditors of their right to intervene, and newspaper publication, to serve as notice of
pendency of the suit to other creditors, shall also be made.
By this statute a right of action upon the bond is created
in favor of certain creditors of the contractor. The cause
of action did not exist before and is the creature of the
statute. The act does not place a limitation upon a cause
of action theretofore existing, but creates a new one upon
the terms named in the statute. The right of action given
to creditors is specifically conditioned upon the fact that
no suit shall be brought by the United States within the
six months named, for it is only in that event that the
creditors shall have a right of action and may bring a suit
in the manner provided. The statute thus creates a new
liability and gives a special remedy for it, and upon well
settled principles the limitations upon such liability become a part of the right conferred and compliance with
them is made essential to the assertion and benefit of the
liability itself. Pollard v. Bailey, 20 Wall. 520, 526-7;
Bank v. Francklyn, 120 U. S. 747, 756; Globe Newspaper
Co. v. Walker, 210 U. S. 356; United States v. Boomer, 183

TEXAS CEMENT CO. v. McCORD.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Fed. Rep. 726 (Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth
Circuit).
The purpose of Congress to give the United States the
exclusive right to bring suit within six months is stated
in terms too plain to be mistaken or to require construction, because of any possible uncertainty in their meaning.
When this is so it becomes unaecessary to inquire into the
reasons which induced the legislation. It may be that
Congress wished to give the Government six months in
which to test the work and fully ascertain its character and
whether it fulfilled the contract or not. Whatever the
motive, the language used clearly expresses the legislative
intention and admits of no doubt as to its meaning. This
being so, it is only the province of the courts to enforce
the statute in accordance with its terms. Lake County v.
Rollins, 130 U. S. 662, 670; United States v. Lexington
Mill Co., 232 U. S. 399, 409.
We think, therefore, that the action was prematurely
brought, in view of the facts stated in the certificate. This
view of the statute was also taken in a well considered
opinion in the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Third
Circuit. Stitzer v. United States', 182 Fed. Rep. 513.
As to the intervention of Illingsworth, in which, it is
claimed, other creditors' claims were incorporated: without passing upon the effect of the dismissal of Illingsworth's
intervention, we fail to see that this mends the matter.
The right to intervene is given in the statute when the
action is brought by the United States, and the creditors
may have their rights adjudicated in such action. And in
the case of an action begun by a creditor in accordance
with the statute, the right to file a claim is given to creditors. These'rights to intervene and to file a claim, conferred by the statute, presuppose an action duly brought
under its terms. In this case the cause of action had not
accrued to the creditors who undertook to bring the suit
originally. The intervention, could not cure this vice in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

original suit. Nor do we think that the intervention could
be treated as an original suit. No service was made or
attempted to be had upon it, as required by the statute
when original actions are begun by creditors. As we read
the certificate, the intervention was what it purported to
be, an appearance in the original suit, already brought,
and in our view must abide the fate of that suit.
As to the effect of the filing of the amendment by the
original plaintiffs on January 9, 1911, it is elementary that
an amendment dates back to the filing of the petition and
is to supply defects in the cause of action then existing, or
at most to bring into the suit grounds of action which
existed at the beginning of the case. In this case there was
no cause of action to amend. Nor was the amendment of
January 9, 1911, the introduction of a new cause of action
existing at the beginning of the suit. See in this connection, American Bonding & Trust Co. v. Gibson County,
145 Fed. Rep. 871 (Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth
Circuit, opinion by Mr. Justice Lurton). If this amended
petition can be regarded as an intervention in a pending
suit, and it is contgnded that it may be, it was too late,
as it was filed more than a year after the final settlement
under the contract to which time such rights of action are
limited by the statute. Eberhart v. United States, 204
Fed. Rep. 884. The same objection would lie if the
amended petition could be regarded as the bringing of an
original suit. See Baker Contract Co. v. United States,
204 Fed. Rep. 390.
It follows that both questions certified must be answered
in the negative.

