HOLLERBACH v. UNITED STATES.
233 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

HOLLERBACH v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 250. Argued March 9, 1914.-Decided April 6, 1914.
A Government contract should be interpreted as are contracts between
individuals and with a view of ascertaining the intention of the
parties and to give it effect accordingly if that can be done consistently with its terms.
A positive statement in a contract as to present conditions of the work
must be taken as true and binding upon the Government, and loss
resulting from a mistaken representation of an essential condition
should fall upon it rather than on the contractor, even though there
are provisions in other paragraphs of the contract requiring the
contractor to make independent investigation of facts.
47 Ct. Cls. 236, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of a Government contract for public work and the rights of the contractor thereunder, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. William B. King, with whom Mr. George A. King
and Mr. William E. Harvey were on the brief, for appellants:
Paragraph 33 contains a warranty. This was admitted
by the Court of Claims and is supported by authority.
As to the effect of pars. 20 and 70, there is no real contradiction and the special provisions control the general
ones. There was no assignment of contract.
In support of these contentions, see Atlantic Dredging Co.
v. United States, 35 Ct. Cls. 463; Bock v. Perkins, 139 U. S.
628; New York v. Am. Traffic Co., 121 N. Y. Supp. 221;
Delafield v. Westfield, 41 N. Y'. App. Div. 24; S. C., 169
N. Y. 582; Hobbs v. McLean, 117 U. S. 567; Hoffman v.
Eastern Wis. R. Co., 134 Wisconsin, 603; Horgan v. The
Mayor, 160 N. Y. 516; Lauman v. Young, 31 Pa. St. 306;

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for the United States.

233 U. S.

Miller v. Wagenhauser, 18 Mo. App. 11; Munro v. Alaire,
2 Caines, 327; Newport Water Works v. Taylor, 34 R. I.
478; Richmond Ice Co. v. Crystal Ice Co., 99 Virginia, 239;
Scudder v. Perce, 159 California, 429; Simpson v. United
States, 172 U. S., 372; Stout v. United States, 27 Ct. Cls.
385; United States v. Stage Co., 199 U. S. 414.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Thompson for the United
States, submitted:
Paragraph 33 is modified by paragraphs 20 and 70
and contains no warranty.
Cases quoted from by appellants to support their contention that they were warranted in relying upon representation of Government in provision 33 can be distinguished from case at bar.
The rule as to general provisions being limited by
special words does not apply to this case.
The contract must be considered as a whole and the
authorities cited by appellants are distinguishable from
this case. See Atlantic Dredging Co. v. United States, 35
Ct. Cls. 463; Bock i. Perkins, 139 U. S. 628; Burgwyn v.
United States, 34 Ct. Cls. 348; Delafield v. Westfield, 28
N. Y. Supp. 440; S. C., 169 N. Y. 582; Elliott on Contracts,
§ 3665; Grieffen v. United States, 43 Ct. Cls. 107; Horgan
v. Mayor, 160 N. Y. 516; Hoffman v. Eastern Wisconsin
R. R. Co., 134 Wisconsin,. 603; Huse, v. United States, 44
Ct. Cls. ,19, 32; S. C., 222 U. S. 496; Lewman v. United
States, 41 Ct. Cls. 486; Lindeke v. Associate Realty Co., 146
Fed. Rep, 630; Newport Water Works v. Taylor, 34 R. I.
478; Page on Contracts, § 1113; Richmond Ice Co. v. Crystal
Ice Co., 99 Virginia, 239; Scudder v. Perce, 159 California,
429; Shappirio v. Goldberg, 192 U. S. 232; *Simpson v.
United States, 172 U. S. 372; S. C., 31 Ct. Cls. 217; Smith
v. Curran, 138 Fed. Rep. 150; Sutherland on Stat. Const.,
§ 279; United States v. Stage Co., 199 U. S. 414; United
States v. Mescall, 215 U. S. 26.

HOLLERBACH v. UNITED STATES.
233 U. S.

MR.

Opinion of the Court.
JUSTICE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit was brought to recover upon a contract between the appellants, doing business as Hollerbach &
May, and the United States for the repair of Dam No. 1,
Green River, Kentucky. In the aspect in which it is now
presented the question involved concerns the right of the
claimants to recover because of certain damages alleged
to have been suffered by them which would not have
accrued had the dam been backed with broken stone,
sawdust and sediment, as was stated in paragraph 33 of the
specifications attached to the contract.
The determination of thiS controversy requires reference
to certain parts of the contract and the findings of the
Court of Claims. The specifications provide, among other
things:
"20. It is understood and agreed that the quantities
given are approximate only, and that no claim shall be
made against the United States on account .of any excess
or deficiency, absolute or relative, in the same. Bidders,
or their authorized agents, are expected to examine the
maps and drawings in this office, which are open to their
inspection, to visit the locality of the work, and to make
their own estimates of the facilities and difficulties attending the execution of the proposed contract, including
local conditions, uncertainty of Weather, and all other
contingencies.
"33. Work to be done. . . . The present dam, a
wooden crib structure, is 528 feet long between abutments

and about 52 feet wide at its base. The expected depth of
concrete work is shown on the blue prints, but it may be
made greater, as the condition of the old timber may render
it necessary. The work shall be carried out in sections,
generally from 50 to 100 feet long, and no more of the old
work shall be torn out than can be rebuilt in a few days in

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

case of necessity. All the exterior surfaces of the concrete
shall be faced with the facing described in paragraph 59,
which shall be placed before the concrete below has set,
and shall be smoothly finished off. The dam is now
backed for about 50 feet with broken stone, sawdust, and
sediment to a height of within 2 or 3 feet of the crest, and
it is expected that a cofferdam can be constructed with
this stone, after which it can be backed with sawdust or
other material. The excavation behind the dam will be
required to go to the bottom, and it is thought that a slope
of 1 horizontal to 1.2 vertical will give ample room.
"60. Blueprints. Blueprint drawings showing the
method of construction may be seen at this office; they
shall form a part of these specifications and shall not be
departed from except as may be found necessary by the
condition of the old timber encountered.
"70. Investigation. It is expected that each bidder will
visit the site of this work, the office of the lockmaster, and
the office of the loc£I engineer and ascertain the nature of
the work, the general character of the river as to floods
and low water, and obtain the information necessary to enable him to make an intelligent proposal."
The Court of Claims found as a matter of fact, among
other things:
"As the contractors proceeded with the work of removing the material behind the dam it was found that
said dam was not backed with broken stone, sawdust, and
sediment as stated in paragraph 33 of the specifications,
but that said backing was composed of a soft slushy sediment from a height of about 2 feet from the crest to an
average depth of 7 feet, and below that to the bottom of
the required excavation said dam was backed by cribwork
of an average height of 4.3 feet consisting of sound logs
filled with stones." (47 Ct. Cls. p. 238.)

HOLLERBACH v. UNITED STATES.
233 U. S..

'169

Opinion of the Court.

The Court of Claims refused to enter judgment for the
damages suffered by reason of the difference in the backing of the dam as found by the court, but estimated the
damages for the matters in dispute in that respect to aggregate $6,549.23 (47 Ct. Cls. 236).
In the course of:its opinion the court below said that if
paragraph 33 stood alone it would be a warranty of the
material backing the dam. "It was," said the court, "a
positive and material representation as to a condition presumably within the knowledge of the Government, and
upon which, in the absence of any other provision or warranty the plaintiffs had a right to rely." But the court
held that the cautionary provisions of paragraphs 20 and
70 required the claimants to inform themselves of the condition of the backing of the dam and that when those paragraphs were read with paragraph 33 the statements and
representations of the last named paragraph could not be
regarded as a warranty upon which the claimants had the
right to rely, and the court reached this conclusion upon
the authority of certain cases of its own and Simpson v.
United States, 172 U. S. 372.
In Simpson v. United States, supra, suit was brought
upon a contract for the construction of a dry dock at the
Brooklyn Navy Yard. It was discovered that the foundations upon which the dry dock rested contained quicksands which were unknown and which were not shown in
the drawings and plans inspected by the contractors before
the making of the contract and upon the strength of
which the contractors had made their bid. This court
held that the written contract merged all previous negotiations and must be presumed in law to express the final
understanding of the parties. Of the contract itself the
court said that it was clear that there was nothing in its
terms which supported, even by remote implication, the
premise upon which the claimants rested their right of
recovery; that the contract contained no statement or

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.

Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

agreement or even intimation of a warranty, express or
implied, concerning the character of the underlying soil at
the place where the dock was to be built; that the only
word in the contract which supported the contention of
warranty was that the dock was to be built in the navy
yard upon a site which was "available," and that the
word "available" did not warrant against the quicksands
which were found, and it certainly did appear that the
site was available for the dock was constructed upon it.
It is therefore apparent that this case is entirely different
from the one now under consideration, in the contents of
the contract and specifications made part thereof, and that
in the Simpson Case the claimants relied upon previous
negotiations and information as to the site for the dock,
developed in the plans showing the result of an examination made by Government officers upon a portion of the
yard, and did not depend, as here, upon the terms of the
contract.
In this case the claimants rely upon the contract, read
in the light of the findings of the Court of Claims. Turning to paragraphs 20 and 70 the Court of Claims justified
its conclusion in that part of paragraph 20 which provides
that "quantities given are approximate only, and that no
claim shall be made against the United States on account
of any excess or deficiency, absolute or relative, in the
same. Bidders, or their authorized agents, are expected . . . to visit the locality of the work, and to make
their own estimates," etc.; and in that part of paragraph 70
which reads, "it is expected that each bidder will visit the
site of this work, . . . and ascertain the nature of the
work," etc. The term "quantities" as used in paragraph
20 may doubtless refer to estimates of the amount of different kinda of work which are specified in the contract.
We do not see.how it could control the statement of paragraph 33, definitely made, as to the character of the material back of the dam. Pertinent parts of the paragraphs

HOLLERBACH v. UNITED STATES.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

referred to would seem to be those which required bidders,
or their authorized agents to investigate for themselveg
and to visit the locality of the work to ascertain its nature
and make their own estimates thereof. The specifications attached to the contract set forth the work to be
performed in great detail, as to its nature and character,
and many particulars as to manner and extent of the work
to be done, the removal of old timber and material, etc.,
the general character of the river as to floods, and low
water, etc., and the difficulties attending the execution of
the contradt, and as to all these things the bidder was required by paragraphs 20 and 70 to make examination for
himself and at his own peril.
In paragraph 33 the Government sets forth with particularity a description of the old dam, its length and
width, and it was there added: "The dam is now backed
for about 50 feet with broken stone, sawdust and sediment
to a height of within 2 or 3 feet of the crest," etc. The
specifications provided that the excavations behind the
dam must be to the bottom. In the light of this specification, turn to the finding of fact, and we learn that the
claimants, as they proceeded with the work, found that
the dam "was not backed with broken stone, sawdust and
sediment as stated in paragraph 33 of the specifications,"
and below seven feet from the top to the bottom there was
a backing of cribbing of an average height of 4.3 feet of
sound logs filled with stone. Obviously, this made it much
more expensive to do the work than if the representation
inserted by the Government in the specifications of its
own preparation had been true and only the character of
material had been found which the specification unequivocally asserted was there.

A Government corltract should be interpreted as are
contracts between individuals, with a view to ascertain-

ing the intention of the par ties and to give it effect accordingly, if that can be done consistently with the terms

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

of the instrument. In paragraph 33 the specifications
spoke with certainty as to a part of the conditions to be
encountered by the claimants. True the claimants might
have penetrated the seven feet of soft slushy sediment by
means which would have discovered the log crib work filled
with stones which was concealed below, but the specifications assured them of the character of the material, a
matter concerning which the Government might be presumed to speak with knowledge and authority. We think
this positive statement of the specifications must be taken
as true and binding upon the Government, and that upon
it rather than upon the claimants must fall the loss resulting from such mistaken representations. We think it
would be going quite too far to interpret the general language of the other paragraphs as requiring independent
investigation of facts which the specifications furnished
by the Government as a basis of the contract left in no
doubt. If the Government wished to leave the matter
open to the independent investigation of the claimants it
might easily have omitted the specification as to the
character of the filling back of the dam. In its positive
assertion of the nature of this much of the work it made a
representation upon which the claimants had a right to
rely without an investigation to prove its falsity. See
United States v. Stage Co., 199 U. S. 414, 424.
It follows that the judgment of the Court of Claims
must be reversed and the case remanded to that court with
directions to enter judgment for the claimants for the
damages incurred because of the different character of
material found behind the dam than that described in the
specifications.
Reversed.

