ERIE R. R. CO. v. NEW YORK.
233 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

ERIE RAILROAD COMPANY v. PEOPLE OF THE
STATE OF NEW YORK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 266.

Argued April 24, 27, 1914.-Debided May 25, 1914.

When Congress acts in such manner as to manifest its constitutional
authority in regard to interstate commerce the regulating power of
the State ceases to exist, and if there is conflict between state and
Federal legislation the former must give way.
After Congress acts on a matter within its exclusive juriedictian there
is no division of the field of regulation.
Regulation of the railroads is not a mere wanton exercise of power, but
a restriction upon their management induced by public interest and
safety; and so held, that the Hours of Service Act of 1907 is the
judgment of Congress of the necessary extent of such restrictions as to
employds engaged in interstate commerce which admits of no
supplementary regulation by any of the States.
Provisions in the Labor Law of New York of 1907 relating to the hours
of service of railroad telegraph operators engaged in interstate commerce are void in so far as they attempt to regulate interstate commerce, as Congress had completely covered the field by the Hours of
Service Act of 1907, although that act did not take effect until
March, 1908. Northern Pacific Railway Co. v. Washington, 222 U. S.
370.
Where the state court did not decide that a general law amounted to a
repeal' or alteration of the charter of a corporation, the contention.
that it did so decide cannot be founded on an expression of personal
opinion to that effect of the judge writing the opinion.
Quwre, and'not decided in this case, whether it is competent for a
State, through its power to alter or repeal charters of railroads incorporated under its laws, so ai to displace or share the jurisdiction
of Congress over interstate commerce.
Judgment'based on 198'N. Y. 369, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under the
Fourteenth Amendment of the eight hour provisions of
the New York Labor Law of 1907 as applied to railroads,

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

233 U. S.

and employ~s engaged in interstate commerce, are stated
in the opinion.
Mr. Frederic D. McKenney, with whom Mr. George F.
Brownell was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
Congress by the "Hours of Service Act" of March 4,
1907, having completely regulated the hours of labor
of railway employ~s concerned with the movements of
trains, including those making use of the telegraph or
telephone for that. purpose, the law of the State of New
York from the date of its passage was void and of no effect
as to all such employ6s engaged in or performing duties
in connection with interstate commerce. And this is so
notwithstanding that the prohibitions of the Federal law,
by the terms of the act itself, only became effective one
year after the date of its passage, that is to say, on March 4,
1908. Nor. Pac. Ry. Co. v. Washington, '222 U. S. 370;
see also Adams Exp. Co. v. Croninger, 226 U.- S. 491, 505,
506; McDermott v. Wisconsin, 228 U. S. 115, 131-132;
Chicago, Ind. &c. Ry. Co. v. Hackett, 228 U. S. 559, 567;
Simpson v. Shepherd, 230 U., S. 352, 399, 400; and Missouri v. Mo. Pac. Ry. Co., 212 Missouri, 658; Wisconsin
v. Chic. Mil. & St. P. Ry. Co., 136 Wisconsin, 407, cited by
this court with approval in Nor. Pac. Ry. Co. v. Washington.
Mr. Wilber W. Chambers, with whom Mr. Thomas
Carmody, Attorney General of the State of New York, and
Mr. Claude T. Dawes were on the brief, for defendant in.
error:
The statute is valid as it is within the reserved power
of the State to amend corporate charters. 1 Rev. Stat.
N. Y. 1827, 600, § 8; Const. N. Y. of 1846 and 1894,
art. VIII, § 1.
As to this power of the State to amend corporate charters, see Adirondack Railway Co. v. New York, 176 U. S.

ERIE R. R. CO. v. NEW YORK.
233 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

335; New York & New Eng. R. R. Co. v. Bristol, 151 U. S.
556, p. 567; People v. O'Brien, 111 N. Y. 1; Greenwood v.
FreightCo., 105 U. S. 13; Lord v. EquitableLife Assur. Co.,
194 N. Y. 212; N. Y. C. & H. R. R. Co. V. Williams, 199
N. Y. 108.
The only limitation to this general rule is that the power
may not be exercised to destroy property or rights guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment of the United States
Constitution, and by similar provisions of state constitutions. St. L., I. M. &c.. Ry. v. Paul, 173 U. S. 404,
409. See also State v. Brown & Sharpe Mfg. Co., 18 R. I.
16; Berea College v. Kentucky, 211 U. S. 45.
A State's power to control its own corporations is a
power quite as vital to the State as the power of interstate
commerce is to the Federal Government. It has not been
surrendered to the Central Government, and only to the
extent that a Federal power conflicts with it is the state
power devitalized. See Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S.
352, 399.
This court will follow the New York Court of Appeals in
its finding that the state legislation in question was enacted
under its reserved control over a corporation created by
it. Adirondack Railway v. New York, 176 U. S. 335;
Elmendorf v. Taylor, 10 Wheat. 152, 159; Forsyth v. Hammond, 166 U. S. 506, 518; Covington v. Kentucky, 173
U. S. 231, 237; Schaefer v. Werling, 188 U. S. 516.
The statute is not unconstitutional as an unauthorized
interference by the State with interstate commerce, and
the decision of this court in Nor. Pac. Ry. v. Washington,
222 U. S. 370, is not controlling here.
The Hours of Service Act, 34 Stat. 1415, does not apply
to employ~s employed in a State and engaged in intrastate
business. 'In this case the employ6 was not engaged in
interstate commerce; the corporation involved was a
domestic corporation over which the legislature of the
State of New York had power to amend and repeal its
VOL. ccxxxii--43

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

233 U. S.

charter; and the employ6 was not one of a train crew and
the work which he was doing was local or intrastate.
Although the state act affects to some extent the operation of interstate commerce it is none the less local in its
character. Smith v. Alabama, 124 U. S. 465; Nashville &c.
R. R. v. Alabama, 128 U. S. 96.
Regulation of trains engaged in interstate commerce at
crossings is within the power of the State. Southern Ry.
Co. v. King, 217 U. S. 524. So also as to the heating of
passenger cars and requiring guard posts on bridges.
N. Y., N. H. & H. R. R. Co. v. New York, 165 U. S. 628.
In West. Un. Tel. Co. v. James, 162 U. S. 650, the
state law forbade the running of freight trains on Sunday.
In Hennington v. Georgia, 162 U. S. 299, the statute
sustained required railroad companies to fix their rates
annually for the transportation of passengers and freight,
and also required them to post a printed copy of their
rates in passenger stations. See also Chicago & N. W. R.
R. v. Fuller, 17 Wall. 560; Louis. & Nash. R. R. Co. v.
Kentucky, 161 U. S. 677; Chicago, Mil. & St. P. R. R. v.
Solon, 169 U. S. 133; Richmond & A. R. Co. v. Tobacco
Co., 169 U. S. 311; Wisconsin R. R. Co. v. Jacobson, 179
U. S. 287; Chesapeake &c. Ry. v. Kentucky, 179 U. S. 388;
Louis. & Nash. Ry. v. Mississippi, 133 U. S. 587; Erb v.
Morasch, 177 U. S. 584; Cleveland, C., C. & St. L. R. R. Co.
v. Illinois, 177 U. S. 514.
Congress under its commerce power may, by occupying the entire field of regulation of hours of service on
interstate railroads, render nugatory, with respect to that
subject, a State's police power or its local power over
interstate commerce; but not with the State's power
over its own corporations, which continues and gives
force to a state statute regulating hours of service except,
at those points of conflict with the Federal commerce law.
Cases supra, and see also Mo., Kans. & Tex. Ry. v. Haber,
169 U. S. 613, 623; Sinnot v. Davenport, 22 How. 227, 243.

ERIE R. R. CO. P'. NEW YORK.

233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Where there is direct opposition or antagonism between
state and Federal law, or Congress under its delegated
power over commerce has seen fit to act upon the entire
subject, such congressional action is exclusive of any state
action under state police or commerce powers. Tua v.
Carriere, 117 U. S. 201; Gull, Col. &c. Ry. v. Hefley, 158
U. S. 98; Nor. Pac. Ry. Co. v. Washington, 222 U. S. 370,
378. See also Gladson v. Minnesota, 166 U. S. 427, 430;
Lake Shore Ry. v. Ohio, 173 U. S. 285.
In this case the statute is a direct aid to the purpose of
the Federal statute, and should be sustained as an additional benefit to the State 'with no injury to the Federal
legislation. Reid v. Colorado, 187 U. S. 137, 148; Minn.
&c. Ry. v. Haber, 169 U. S. 613; ,Wisconsin &c. R. R. v.
Jacobson, 179 U. S. 287; Chi., R. I. & Pac. R. R. v. Arkansas, 219 U. S. 453; Grand Trunk Ry. v. Michigan Ry.
Comm., 231 U. S. 457.
The state act having been enacted under the reserved
power of the State of New York over one of its corporations,
and there being no conflict or repugnance between it and
the Federal act, the state act should be held to be valid.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Action for penalty brought by the people of the State
of New York against defendant. in error, herein called the
railroad company, for an alleged violation of the Labor
Law of the State entitled "An Act in relation to labor,
constituting chapter thirty-two of the General Laws," as
amended by Chapter 627 of the Laws of 1907.1
"SEcrON 1. Chapter four hundred and fifteen of the laws of eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, entitled 'An act in relation to labor,
constituting chapter thirty-two ol the general laws,' is hereby amended
by adding a new section after section seven thereof, to be section
seven-a, to read as follows:
"S cTioN 7-a. Regulation of hours of labor of block system telegraph

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

It is alleged that at the times hereinafter mentioned the
railroad company was a corporation under the laws of the
State of New York and was and is operating a line of railroad in the State of New York, in Rockland County and
and telephone operators and signalmen on surface, subway and elevated
railroads.-The provisions of section seven of this chapter shall not be
applicable to employds mentioned herein. It shall be unlawful for
any corporation or receiver, operating a line of railroad, either surface,
subway or elevated, in whole or in part, in the state of New York, or any
officer, agent or representative .of such corporation or receiver, to require or permit any telegraph or telephone operator who spaces trains
by the use of the telegraph or telephone under what is known and
termed the "block system" (defined as'follows): Reporting trains to
another office or offices or to a train dispatcher operating one or more
trains under signals, and telegraph or telephone levermen who manipulate interlocking machines in railroad yards or on main tracks out on the
lines or train dispatchers in its service whose duties. substantially, as
hereinbefore set forth, pertain to the movement of cars, engines or
trains on its railroad by the use of the telegraph or telephone in dispatching or reporting trains or receiving or transmitting train orders as
interpreted in this section, to be on duty for more than eight hours in a
day of twenty-four hours, and it is hereby declared that eight hours
shall constitute a day 'of employment for all laborers or employ~s
engaged in the kind of labor aforesaid; except in cases of extraordinary
emergency caused by accident, fire, flood or danger to life or property,
and for each hour of labor so performed in any one day in excess of such
eight hours, by any such employ6, he shall be paid in addition at least
one-eighth of his daily compensation. Any person or persons, company
or corporation, who shall violate any of the provisions of this section,
shall, on conviction, be fined in the sum of not less than one hundred
dollars, and such fine shall be recovered by an action in the name of the
state of New York, for the use of the state, which shall sue for it against
such person, corporation or association violating this act, said suit to be
instituted in any court in this state having appropriate jurisdiction.
Such fine, when recovered as aforesaid, shall be paid without any
deduction whatever, one-half thereof to the informer, and the balance
thereof to be paid into the free school fund of the state of New York.
The provisions of this act shall not apply to any part of a railroad where
not more than eight regular passenger trains in twenty-four hours pass
each way; provided, moreover, that where twenty freight trains pass
each way generally in each twenty-four hours then the provisions of

ERIE R. R. CO. v. NEW YORK.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

other counties, extending from Piermont to Dunkirk, both
in that State.
The following facts are also alleged: The railroad company, in violation of § 7-a of the Labor Law, required and
permitted one David Henion, a telegraph operator, to be
on duty more than eight hours, that. is, froni seven o'clock
a. m. to seven o'clock p. m., on the first day of November,
1907, in the railroad company's tower at Sterlington, in the
County of Rockland, New York, there being no extraordinary emergency caused by accident, fire, flood or danger
to life or property.
Hi4 duty was to space trains by the use of the telegraph
under what is known and termed the "block system" and
to report trains to another office or offices and to train dispatchers, whose duties pertain to the movement of cars,
engines and trains on the company's railroad, by the usq
of the telegraph.
There passed over the tracks of the railroad company
on the day named more than eight regular passenger trains
each way.
Judgment is prayed in the sum of $100.
The. answer of the rail:road company admits its incorporation and that it is operating a railroad as alleged, but
alleges that its road extends from Jersey City, New Jersey,
to Suffern, New York, and from Salamanca, New York, to
Marion, State of Ohio, and elsewhere, passing through
New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania and Ohio, and that
at all times mentioned in the complaint it was and is now
engaged in interstate comnerce and the transportation of
persons, goods and merchandise by railroad from one
State of the United States to other States of the United
States, and to foreign countries.
this act shall apply, notwithstanding that there may pass a less number
of passenger trains than hereinbefore set forth, namely, eight.
"SECr6ON 2. 'This act shall take effect October first, nineteen hundred and seven."

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

It admits that the company required and permitted
Henion to work as charged, but alleges that the cars, engines and trains that he was engaged in spacing and reporting were engaged in interstate commerce.
That the Labor Law of the State violates the Fifth and
Fourteenth Amendments to the Constitution of the United
States, as applied to Henion and other employ6s in the
same class of work, in that it deprives both the railroad
company and Henion of the liberty of contract and of
property without due process of law and of the equal protection of the laws.
The answer also set up in defense the Federal "Hours
of Service" act, approved March 4, 1907, in force one
year after its passage (34 Stat. 1415, c. 2939), entitled
"An Act topromote the safety of employds and travelers
upon railroads by limiting the hours of service of employds thereon."
The law, among other things, authorizes the employment of employds such as Henion was, for nine hours in
twenty-four hour periods when employed night and day
and for thirteen hours when employed only during the
daytime, and, in case of extraordinary emergency, to be on
duty for four additional hours in such period on not exceeding three days in any week. 1
1" SEC. 2. That it shall be unlawful, for any common carrer, its officers

or agents, subject to this act to require or permit any employ6 subject
to this act to be or remain on duty for a longer period than sixteen
consecutive hours
"Provided, That no operator, train dispatcher, or other employ6
who by the use of the telegraph or telephone dispatches, reports, transmits, receives, or delivers orders pertaining to or affecting train movements shall be required or permitted to be or remain on duty for a
longer period than nine hours in any twenty-four-hour period on all
* towers, offices, places, and stations continuously operated night and
day, nor for a longer period than thirteen hours in all towers, offices,
places and stations operated only during the daytime, except in case

ERIE R. R. CO. v. NEW YORK.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The answer also alleges that the jurisdiction of Congress
is exclusive, and that the Labor Law of 1907 is in excess of
the power of the legislature of the State of New York and
unconstitutional and void, in that it is an attempt to
regulate commerce between the States.
A jury was waived and the case tried by the court, which
found the facts as alleged in the complaint and that upon
the trains which passed the tower at Sterlington there
"were passengers whose journey commenced and ended
in the State of New York and did not extend into any
other State, and some of said trains carrying passengers
and property from one point to another in the State of
New York."
As a conclusion of law the court found that the railroad
company violated the law, had incurred a penalty of $100
by so doing, and that § 7-a of the law" is valid and its provisions do not violate and are not in conflict with the Constitution of the United States or the constitution of the
State of New York."
Upon the request 'of the railroad company the, court
also found the facts of the interstate character of i • :'ilroad as alleged in the answer and that Henion
employed as alleged, and found a number of other faLes concerning the manner of operating the "block system" and
the duties of Henion. There were also findings relative
to the Labor Law, the Penal Law, so called, and the act of
Congress of March 4, 1907. The findings only serve to
emphasize the defenses of the company and need not be
set out at length.
The court also made the following findings:
"That at all times mentioned in the complaint or hereinafter mentioned, the defendant was, and now is, engaged
in interstate commerce, and the transportation of persons,
of emergency, when the employ6s named in this proviso may be permitted to be and remain on duty for four additional hours in a twentyfour-hour period on not exceeding three days in any- week; .
"

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

goods and merchandise by railroad -from one State of the
United States to other States of the United States.
"On that day [the day Henion was employed] there
were fourteen eastbound and twelve westbound passenger
trains, and twelve eastbound and fifteen westbound freight
trains, which passed the Sterlington tower diing said
twelve hours.
"On November 1st, 1907, a majority of the trains which
the said David Henion was engaged in spacing and reporting were engaged in interstate commerce, or in the transportation of passengers, persons, or property from one
State to another."
The court refused to find-" That on November 1, 1907,
said David Henion in the performance of his duties was
an employ6 of the defendant engaged in interstate commerce."
The court further found that the effect of the Labor Law
"was materially to increase the cost to the Erie Railroad
Company of operating the 'Block System."'
Judgment was entered for the penalty sued for. It was
reversed by the Appellate, Division, and a new trial
granted, the court deciding that the jurisdiction of the
subject-matter was exclusively in Congress and was exercised by the Hours of Service Law of March 4, 1907.
The Court of Appeals reversed the action of the Appellate Division and affirmed the judgment of the trial court.
The Court of Appeals rested its decision on three propositions: (1) The Labor Law of the State was a legal exercise
of the police power of the State. (2) There was no conflict
between it and the act of Congress of March 4, 1907.
"The State," the court said (198 N. Y., p. 381) "has simply supplemen.3d th" action of the Federal authorities. It
is the same as if Congress had enacted that the classes of
employ~s named might be employed for nine hours or less,
and the State had then fixed the lesser number, which was
left open by the Federal statute. The form of the latter

ERIE R. R. CO. v. NEW YORK.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

fixed the outside limit, but not expressly legalizing employment up to that limit, fairly seems to have invited and to
have left the subject open for supplemental state legislation
if necessary." (3) A statute does not become controlling
until it actually becomes operative and that therefore, even
if it should be decided that there was a conflict between the
Federal and the state legislation after the former became
effective, as the act of Congress did not take effect until
March 4, 1908, in the mentime the state law was in
operation.
The propositions decided by the Court of Appeals express the contentions made here by defendant in error
and they are attempted to be supported by a citation of a
number of cases in which this court has sustained legislation by the States more or less affecting interstate comInerce. A review of them is unnecessary. Whatever difficulty may otherwise have been in the questions presented
by the record have been met and overcome by decisions
more apposite than the cited. cases. The relative supremacy of the state and National power over interstate commerce need not be commented upon. Where there is
conflict the state legislation must give way. Indeed, when
Congress acts in such a way as to manifest its purpose to
exercise its constitutional authority the regulating power
of the State ceases to exist. Adams Express Co. v. Croninger, 226 U. S.491, and cases cited. Also Chicago, R. I.
& Pac. Ry. Co. v. Hardwick Elevator Co., 226 U. S. 426;
Chicago, Ind. & L. Ry. Co. v. Hackett, 228 U. S.559; McDermottv. Wisconsin, 228 U. S.115; Minnesota Rate Cases,
230 U. S.352; Taylor v. Taylor, 232 U. S.363.
This is the general principle. It was given application
to an instance like that in the case at bar in Northern
Pacific Ry. v. Washington, 222 U. S.370. The case arose
upon an asserted conflict between the Hours of Service
Law of March 4, 1907, the one involved here, and a law
of the State of Washington which also regulated the hours

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

of railway employ~s. The latter became effective June 12,
1907, that is, before the time the Federal Hours of Service Law was in force but after its enactment. The state
act resembled the Federal act, and prohibited the consecutive hours of service which had taken place on the
Northern Pacific Railroad and on account of which the
action was brought by the Attorney General of the State
against the company for the penalties prescribed for
violation of the act. The railroad company admitted the
facts but denied liability under the act, asserting that its
train was an interstate train and was not subject to the,
control of the State because within the exclusive control
of Congress on that subject. The trial court granted a
motion for judgment on the pleadings, which was affirmed
by the Supreme Court of the State. That court held that
the train was an interstate train and conceded that Congress might prescribe the number of consecutive hours an
employ6 of a carrier so engaged should be required to remain on duty; and when it so legislated upon the subject,
its act superseded any and all state legislation on that
particular subject. But the court held that the act of
Congress did not apply because of its provision that it
should not take effect until one year after its passage and
until such time it should be treated as not existing.
We reversed the judgment on the ground that the view
expressed was not "compatible with the paramount power
of Congress over interstate commerce," and We considered
it elementary that the police power of the State could only
exist from the silence of Congress upon the subject and
ceased when Congress acted or manifested its purpose to
call into play its exclusive power. It was further said that
the mere fact of the enactment of the act of March 4,
1907, was a manifestation of the will of Congress to bring
the subject within its control, and to reason that because
Congress chose to make its prohibitions take effect only
after a year it was intended to leave the subject to state

ERIE R. R. CO. v. NEW YORK.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

power was to cause the act o f Congress to destroy itself.
There was no conceivable reason, it was said, for postponing the prohibitions if it was contemplated that the state
law should apply in the meantime. The reason for the
postponement, it was pointed out, was to enable the railroads to meet the new conditions.
The reasoning of the opinion and the decision oppose the
contention of defendant in error and of the Court of Appeals, that 'the state law and. the Federal law can stand
together, because, as expressed by the Court of Appeals,
"the State has simply supplemented the action of the
Federal authorities," and, on account of special conditions
prevailing within its limits, has raised the limit of safety;
and *theform of the Federal statute, although "not expressly legalizing employment up to that limit, fairly
seems to have invited and to have left the subject open for
supplemental state legislation if necessary."
We realize the strength of these observations, but they
put out of view, we think, the ground of decision of the
cases, and, indeed, the necessary condition of the supremacy of the congressional power. It is not that there may
be division of the field of regulation, but an exclusive
occupation of it when Congress manifests a purpose to
enter it.
Regulation is not intended to be a mere wanton exercise of power. It is a restriction upon the management
of the railroads. It is induced by the public interest or
safety, and the "Hours of Service" law of March 4, 1907,
is the judgment of Congress of the extent of the restriction
necessary. It admits of no supplement; it is the prescribed
measure of what is necessary and sufficient for the public
safety and of the cost and burden which the railroad must
endure to secure it.
Defendant in error attempts to distinguish Northern
Pacific Railroad Co. v. Washington, supra, on the ground
that the State was dealing with a corporation organized

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of'the Court.

233 U. S.

under the laws of another State, and, the State of Washington had no power to alter or repeal its charter. This
power, it is contended, the State of New York has over the
Erie Railroad and exercised the power in the law under
review, and that the Court of Appeals has so decided. It is
asserted besides, that Henion was not engaged in interstate
commerce. These assertions are not justified. The Court
of Appeals did not decide that the Labor Law constituted
analteration or repeal of the charter of the company. The
learned judge who delivered the opinion of the court
expressed such to be his view, saying (p. 376) that "if the
statute failed as a valid exercise of the police power, personally" he was "not doubtful that under its reserved
control over corporations the legislature might pass such
an act in regulation of the performance of the business
for which a railroad was organized."
It is clear that the learned judge. did not express the
views of the court. We have no doubt that if the court
entertained such view it would have been declared. It
would have been a direct and, from the standpoint of the
State, an adequate, solution of the questions involved, and
would have made unnecessary the elaborate consideration
of the extent of the police power of the State and its coincident exercise and adjustment with congressional power
of regulation. The contention of defendant in error,
therefore, has not the foundation asserted for it, and we
may pass it without further comment, not considering
whether it is competent for a State, through its power to
alter or repeal the charter of railroads incorporated under
its laws, to displace or share the jurisdiction of Congress
over interstate commerce.
The assertion that Henion was not engaged in interstate
commerce is also without foundation and is besides precluded by the opinion of the Court of Appeals. The interstate character of the business was recognized by the court
and the law considered in view of such recognition. The

ERIE R. R. CO. v. WILLIAMS.
233 U. S.

Syllabus.

court said (p. 376) "that the Labor Law putiorts and attempts indiscriminately and inseparably, to regulate the
hours of the classes of employ6s designated whether engaged in interstate or local traffic, and that, therefore, its
validity must be tested by the power of the legislature
over the former."
The trial court, it is true, undertook to make a distinction between the interstate business of the railroad and
Henion's duties, but, in view of the cases which- we have
cited and of the decision of the Appellate Division and of
the Court bf Appeals, the distinction is untenable. Balt.
& Ohio R. R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 221
U. S. 612; Second Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

ERIE RAILROAD COMPANY v. WILLIAMS, AS
COMMISSIONER OF LABOR OF THE STATE
OF NEW YORK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 274.

Argued April 27, 1914.-Decided May 25, 1914.

While it is a fundamental principle that personal liberty, includes the
power to make contracts, the liberty of making contracts is subject to
conditions in the interest of the public welfare, and whether that
principle or those conditions shall prevail cannot be defined by any
precise or universal formula. Each case must be determined by
itself.
Each act of legislation has the presumption that it has been enacted in
the public interest and the burden is on him who attacks it.
The burden of the party attacking a police regulation as unconstitutional under the due process clause is not sustained by the mere
principle of liberty of contract; it can only be sustained by showing

