OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Case.

233 U. S.

99 Fed. Rep. 302, 304; The Hoffmans, 171 Fed. Rep. 455,
4 7; Benedict's Admiralty, 4th ed., § 533. In the recent
case of Richardson v. Harmon, 212 U. S. 96, where there
was but a single claim, it was assumed by both court and
counsel that a plurality of claims was not essential. We
think that is the true view of the statute.
Decree affirmed.

FARRUGIA v. PHILADELPHIA & READING RAILWAY CQMPANY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 823.

Argued March 2, 1014.-Decided April 13, 191%.

The provision in § 238, Judicial Code, providing for a direct writ of
error in any case in which the jurisdiction of the court is in issue,
refers to cases in which the power of the court, as a Federal court,
to hear and determine the cause is in controversy.
Where that power is not in question, but only the sufficiency of the
evidence to establish an element of the plaintiff's asserted cause of
action, § 238, Judicial Code, does not apply and the writ of error
must be dismissed.
A decision of the District Court of the United States granting a compulsory non-suit in an action brought under the Employers' Liability Act because the evidence did not show that the plaintiff was
engaged in interstate commerce, is subject to review in the Circuit
Court of Appeals. A direct writ of error to this court under § 238,
Judicial Code, will not lie as the jurisdiction of the court as a Federal
court is not in issue.
THE facts, which involve the construction and application of the Employers' Liability Act, and the jurisdiction
of this court of a direct appeal from the District Court

under the Judicial Code, are stated in the opinion.

FARRUGIA v. PHILA. & READING CO.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. George Demming for plaintiff in error.
Mr. William Clarke Mason, with whom Mr. Charles
Heebner was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the court.
This was an action against a railway company to recover.
for personal injuries. The right of action was predicated

upon the Federal Employers' Liability Act of April 22,
1908, c. 149, 35 Stat. 65, as amended April 5, 1910, c. 143,
36 Stat. 291, and it was alleged that the injuries were
sustained while the defendant was engaged, and while the
plaintiff was employed by it, in interstate commerce.
There was a plea of not guilty, and a trial resulted in a
judgment of compulsory non-suit. The case is here upon a
direct writ of error based upon a certificate that the court's
decision was given upon a jurisdictional ground, namely,
that "the evidence produced at the said trial of the case
did not disclose that plaintiff, at the time of the happening
of the accident by which he received the injuries complained of, was engaged in interstate commerce."
Although counsel have presented the case as if it were
properly here, it is manifest that it is not. The clause in
§ 238 of the Judicial Code providing for a direct writ of
error "in any case in which the. jurisdiction of the court
is in issue" refers, as we 'have repeatedly held, to cases in
which the power of the court, as a Federal court, to hear
and determine the cause is in controversy. Fore River
Shipbuilding Co. v. Hagg, 219 U. S. 175, 178; United States
v. Congress Construction Co., 222 U. S. 199; Darnell v.
Illinois CentralRailroad Co., 225 U. S. 243. No such issue
is here disclosed.

The power of the court, as a Federal

court, to hear and determine the case was not questioned.
Nor did the court hold that it was without jurisdiction
VOL. ccxxxiii-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

233 U. S.

in that sense. On the contrary, it prqceeded to a hearing
and decided that the plaintiff could not recover under the
Federal act, because one element of his asserted cause of
action was without any evidence to sustain it. Had the
action been brought in a state court, as it could have been,
the same question would have arisen, and had the evidence been similarly insufficient a like decision must have
ensued. We say the action could have been brought in a
state court, because § 6 of the Federal act declares: "The
jurisdiction of the courts of the United States under this
act shall be concurrent with that of the courts of the several
States, and no case arising under this act and brought in
any state court of competent jurisdiction shall be. removed
to any court of the United States." And we say the result
must have been the same in a state court upon similar
evidence, because the right of recovery given by the act
(§ 1) is restricted to injuries suffered while the employ6
is employed in interstate commerce.
It follows that there was no basis for the direct writ of
error. If a review of the decision was desired it should have
been sought in the Circuit Court of Appeals.
Writ of error dismissed.

TENNESSEE COAL, IRON & RAILROAD COMPANY v. GEORGE.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS

OF THE STATE

OF

GEORGIA.
No. 299.

Argued March 17, 1914.-Decided April 13, 1914.

While the courts of a State are bound to give full faith and credit to all
substantial provisions of a statute of another State creating a
transitory cause of action which inhere in the cause of action or
which name conditions on which the right to sue depends, venue is no
part of a right, and whether jurisdiction exists is to be determined by

