CORNELL ST'BOAT CO. v. PHOENIX CONST. CO.
233 U. S.

593

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

CORNELL STEAMBOAT COMPANY v. PH(ENIX
CONSTRUCTION COMPANY.
SAME v. SAME.
SAME v. SAME.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Nos. 933, 934, 935. Motion to dismiss or affirm submitted April 27,
1914.-Decided May 11, 1914.
While the fact of -negligence may, if 'abstractly considered, be a state
question concerning which this court would accept, and possibly
might be bound by, the decision of the state 'court, when the negligence involves and concerns a subject of Federal jurisdiction which
it is its duty to decide, this court must, to.the extent necessary to
enable it to discharge that duty, consider the subject independent
of the action of the state court. Southern Pacific Co. v. Schuyler,
227 U. S. 601.
The fact that a vessel is anchored in a navigable river without the authority of the Secretary of War does not endow other vessels with
a license to wrongfully injure it, nor does that fact relieve them from
responsibility for colliding with the anchored vessel solely by their
own negligence not contributed to in any way by it.
210 N. Y. 113, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
to review judgments of the state court, and also questions

of negligence in colliding with vessels anchored in navigable waters, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. E. Crosby Kindleberger for defendant in error, in
support of motion.
Mr. J. Parker Kirlin for plaintiff in error, in opposition
to motion:
VOL.

ccxxxiri-38

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

233 U. S.

The Federal question involved must necessarily be the
basis of the decisions in these cases. The Court of Appeals
of the State of New York did actually decide these cases
on the basis of the Federal question involved. 210 N. Y.
113, 118.
The judgment of the trial court that these cases could
be decided solely on the ground of the defendant's negligence and the dictum in the opinion of the Court of Appeals to the same effect were erroneous and the Federal
question raised by the defendant is necessarily involved
in the decision. Murdock v. City of Memphis, 20 Wall.
590, 636.
One who erects a structure which is a public nuisance
cannot recover damages for any injury to the structure
in the absence of wilful fault. Montgomery v. Portland,
190 U. S. 89; Cummings v. Chicago, 188 U. S. 410; Hart v.
Mayor, 9 Wend. 571; Moore v. Commissioners, 32 How.
Pr. 184; Blanchard v. W. U. Tel. Co., 60 N. Y. 510; Moore
v. Jackson, 2 Abb. (N. C.) 211; Gold v. Carter, 9 Humph.
369; Garey v. Ellis, 1 Cush. 306; Rathbun v. Payne, 19
Wend. 399; Foley v. McKeever, 56 App. Div. (N. Y.) 517;
Haskcell v. New Bedford (1871), 108 Massachusetts, 208;
North Shore Boom Co. v. Nicomen Boom Co., 212 U. S. 406;
People v. Vanderbilt, 26 N. Y. 287; 28 N. Y. 396; People v.
Horton, 64 N. Y. 610;. Woodman v. Kilborn Mfg. Co., 30
Fed. Cas. No. 17978; Hart v. Mayor, 9 Wend. 571.
The Federal question involved is properly presented by
the writs of error to this court.
The immunity claimed by the plaintiff in error under a
proper construction of the act of March 3, 1889, presents
a substantial Federal question to this court.
There can be no doubt that where a person claims a
right under a Federal statute to carry on his business in a
certain way and this right is denied him by any court, the
question whether or not he has been deprived of his right
or immunity is one which this court-is authorized to pass

CORNELL ST'BOAT CO. v. PHOENIX CONST. CO.
233 U. S.

595

Opinion of the Court.

on. Rev. Stat., § 709; Smalley v. Langenon, 196 U. S. 93;
Belden v. Chase, 150 U. S. 674; Railroad Company v.

Maryland, 21 Wall. 456; Missouri &c. Co. v. Haber, 169
U. S. 613.
Where it appears that some title, right, privilege or
immunity on which the recovery depends will be defeated
by- one construction of the Constitution or law of the
United States, and sustained. by the opposite construction,
the case is one arising under the laws or Constitution of
the United States. Cooke v. Avery, 147 U. S. 375; Oil
Company v. Miller, 97 Fed. Rep. 690; Northern Pacific
Railway Co. v. Soderberg, 188 U. S. 526; Doolan v. Carr,
125 U. S. 618.
The immunity claimed by the defendant is sustained by
a proper construction of the statute.
The motion to affirm is premature and should not be
granted before the cases have been reviewed upon the
writs of error. Steel v. Culver, 211 U. S. 26; Micas v.
Williams, 104 U. S. 556; Jenkins v. Banning, 23 How.
455; Welmer v. Bauer, 160 Fed. Rep. 240. Philadelphia
Company v. Stimson, 223 UJ. S. 605, and Gring v. Ives,
222 U. S. 365, distinguished.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The cases are before us on a motion to dismiss or affirm,
and the facts essential to its3 consideration are these;
The Phoenix Constructior Company, defendant in error,
brought three actions to recover damages alleged to have
resulted from the negligence of the Cornell Steamboat
Company, plaintiff in error, in permitting its tugs and
canal boats on three separate occasions in the year 1908
to collide with certain scows and other property of the
Construction Company on the Hudson River. The cases
were tried by a referee, resulting in judgments against the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

Steamboat Company, which were affirmed by the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court (146 N. Y. App. Div.
951), and by the Court of Appeals (210 N. Y. 113). These
writs of error were then prosecuted to the court below, to
which the records were remitted by the Court of Appeals,
upon the theory that Federal questions were involved
and wrongly decided.
The Construction Company was a contractor for the
Board of Water Supply of the City of New York, and in
the year 1908 was engaged in making test borings in the
bed of the Hudson River for the purpose of determining
where it was best to tunnel under the river in the construction of the Catskill Aqueduct. At the times of the
collisions complained of boring operations were carried
on simultaneously at four points on a line across the river
near Storm King Mountain, and it was with plants established at certain of these borings, consisting of pipes,
drills, platforms, scows and other property that canal
boats in tow of the Steamboat Company collided. The
referee found in each case that the location of the borings
was known to the masters of the tugs, who had many times
passed between them with tows; that upon the nights of
the accidents, lights which could be seen for more than a
mile were displayed on the borings; that the collisions
were the direct result of the negligence of the servants of
the Steamboat Company in charge of its tugs, and that
the Construction Company was in no wise negligent. In
addition considering the defence made by the Steamboat
Company that it was not liable because the structures of
the Construction Company were unlawful obstructions
in the channel, erected and maintained without a lawful
permit from the Secretary of War, and without authority
of Congress, as required by §§ 9 and 10 of the act of
March 3, 1899 (c. 425, 30 Stat. 1121, 1151; U. S. Comp.
Stat. 1901, p. 3541), the findings of the referee were in
substance these: In 1906, upon the application of the

CORNELL ST'BOAT CO. v. PHOENIX CONST. CO. 597
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Board of Water Supply of New York City, a permit was
issued by the Secretary of War authorizing borings to be
made in the bed of the Hudson River at certain points
near New Hamburg, and that subsequently such permit
was modified by communications signed by members of
the corps of engineers of the United States army located
in New York City and having charge of the district in
which the work was being executed, so as to permit the
borings to be carried on at points near Storm King. Under
these facts the referee stated that in his opinion it was
extremely doubtful whether the Construction Company
was lawfully authorized to establish its boring plants in the
river, but held that even although the permits did not
constitute lawful authority and the boring plants were
unlawful obstructions in the river, the Steamboat Company was not because of that circumstance relieved of its
duty to exercise ordinary care, and his decision in each case
was based solely upon the fact that the collisions were
caused by the exclusive negligence of the Steamboat Company. In affirming the judgments the Appellate Division
filed no opinion, although it appears that two of the justices concurred "solely on the ground that authority was
given by the Secretary of War to make the borings and
anahor the barges in the river," from which it is to be inferred that a majority of the court were of opinion that
the judgments were amply sustained by the reasoning of
the referee. The Court of Appeals, however, while stating
that as the actions were for common law negligence, the
ground of negligence stated by the, referee was adequate
to sustain the judgments, also considered the contention
based upon the statute and additionally placed the affirmance upon the conclusion that the facts found by the
referee, which were concluded by the unanimous affirmance
by the Appellate Division, were sufficient to establish authority given by the Secretary of War for the operations
carried on by the Construction Company, and that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.

Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

contention of the Steamboat Company that action by
Congress was essential to authorize the Construction Company to do the work was without foundation.
The assignments of error here insisted upon as involving
a Federal question are directed to the conclusions of the
Court of Appeals last stated.
Clearly the judgment of the Court of Appeals which is
under review rests*upon two propositions: (1) The sufficiency of the authority from a Federal point of view under
which the Phcenix Construction Company was carrying
on its work in the bed of the river, and in the execution of
which work it had anchored in the river its barges and
other appliances incidental to the boring operations in
which it was engaged. (2) The absence of all negligence
on the part of the Construction Company resulting from
the place where its appliances were anchored in the
stream, or from any other cause, and the happening of
the accident solely because of negligence on the part, of
the Steamboat Company. It is elementary that where the
judgment of a state court which is under review by this
court rests upon two or more grounds one or more of which
are Federal and others of which are not Federal because
resting solelr upon state grounds independent of Federal
rights and which state grounds are therefore completely
adequate to sustain the judgment under consideration, no
jurisdiction obtains to review. This doctrine it is insisted
is here applicable for the following reason: Because conceding that the first proposition, that is, the rightfulness
of the acts of the company in placing its appliances in the
stream involves Federal questions which are reviewable,
the second proposition upon which the court based its
decision, that is, the happening of the accident solely as
the result of the negligent conduct of the Steamboat
Company, is an independent state ground broad enough
to sustain the judgment without the necessity of considering the Federal question involved in the first proposition.

CORNELL ST'BOAT CO. v. PHOENIX CONST. CO.
233 U. S.

599

Opinion of the Court.

But the mistake lies in the contention that the finding
that there was no negligence on the part of the Construction Company and that the negligence of the Steamboat
Company was the sole cause of the damage suffered involved purely questions of state cognizance involving no
Federal considerations whatever. We say this is the
error because the determination of the issue of negligence
upon the hypothesis that there was no Federal authority
given to place the obstructions in the river necessarily
involves a consideration of the nature of the obstructions
and the ascertainment of whether in and of themselves
they so interfered with or impeded the right to navigate
the rivfr, that is, to carry on interstate commerce by
using the river, as to cause the mere presence of the
obstructions to constitute negligence per se, that is, to
render the conclusion necessary that their mere presence
was the efficient and proximate cause of the accident complained of. Because the elements involved in the decision
of this Federal question are intermingled with the elements
necessary to be considered to determine whether there was'
negligence irrespective of the Federal right affords no
reason for not considering and disposing of the issue which
the case presents from the Federal aspect, or to treat it as
non-existing. It is indeed true that the fact of negligence
in and of itself abstractly considered may be a state
question concerning which we would accept, and indeed it
may be conceded would be bound by the conclusion of the
state court. But when negligence involves and concerns
a subject of Federal jurisdiction which it is our duty to
decide, to, the extent necessary to enable us to discharge
that duty, we must consider and review the subject
independent of the action of the state court. Southern
PacificCo. v. Schuyler, 227 U. S. 601, 612.
The motion to dismiss being thus adversely disposed of,
it remains to consider, the motion to affirm, which we
think should be granted because of the entire want of

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

foundation, that is in substance the frivolousness, of the
proposition upon which the contention as to jurisdiction to
review must rest, and we have reached this conclusion for
the following reasons: (a) because under the circumstances
disclosed by the record we are of the opinion that it is
manifest that -whether the ingredients of negligence be
considered from the Federal point of view or from the
point of view of the general law it clearly results that the
injury which the Construction Company suffered was
purely and exclusively, as held by all the courts below,
the result of the negligence of the Steamboat Company
unaffected in a legal sense by the act of the Construction
Company in placing its works in the stream at the places
and under the circumstances shown. (b) Because reaching
this conclusion we are of the opinion that the question of
the sufficiency or insufficiency of the Federal authority
by which the appliances of the Construction Company
were placed in the river becomes wholly negligible and
need not be considered, because even assuming the want of
authority, such absence of authority conferred upon the
Steamboat Company no right to negligently injure the
property of the Construction Company. In other words
we are of the opinion that conceding that the appliances
and boats of the Construction Company were in the river
at the points stated without authority, that fact did not
endow the Steamboat Company with a license to become a
wrongdoer free from responsibility, and did not exempt
it therefore from liability for the consequences of a wrong
inflicted solely by its own negligence not contributed to
in any way by the Construction Company.
Affirmed.

