VALDES v. LARRINAGA.
233 U. S.

Syllabus.

effect of the provision is merely administrative and so
far as it affects interstate commerce it does so indirectly.
The Court of Appeals, as we have seen, considered that the
law relates to the wages of railway servants employed
wholly within the State and to those whose duties take
them from the State into other States. In other words, did
not make it applicable to those employed in other States,
and it therefore does not embrace all of the employ6s of
plaintiff, and the contention based upon its application to
all is without foundation.
The last contention of plaintiff is that the statute
violates the Fourteenth Amendment, "in that it denies to
the employs of the Erie Railroad Company the equal
protection of the laws." Considerable argument is made
to support the contention, in which a comparison is made
between the employ~s, mechanics, workmen and laborers,
to whom the law applies, and the other employ~s of
the company, and it is declared that all, if any, suffer from
monthly payments and all are entitled, therefore, to receive the benefit of semi-monthly payments. But, as we
have said, employs are not complaining, and whatever
rights those excludeci may have, plaintiff cannot invoke.
Judgment affirmed.

VALDES v.. LARRINAGA.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOIL PORTO RICO.

No. 343.

Argued May 4, 1914.--mDecided May 25, 1914.

Although the contract for participation in profits involved in this case
may not have created a partnership, as defined under ยง 1567, Civil
Code of Porto Rico, it gave the party entitled to participate an

equitable interest in the property involved which attached specifically
VOL. ccxxxii-45

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Appellant.

233 U. S.

to the profits when they came into being. Barnes v. Alexander, 232
U. S. 117.
In such a case, if the party having. the legal control of the property and
profits abuses the'fiduciary relation created by the contract, equitable
relief is proper.
In this case it does not appear that the contract under which one who
had formerly occupied a government office in Porto Rico rendered
services in connection with obtaining a franchise from the local and
Federal governments was improper or against public policy. Hazelton v. Sheckells, 202 U.' S. 71, distinguished.
In this case held, that notwithstanding the forfeiture of an original
grant and the final sale relating to a new but similar grant, as there
was a continuous pursuit of the end achieved, one who was entitled
to a share in the profits of the enterprise as originally conceived was
entitled to share in the proceeds.
Where no error of magnitude is made by the court below in construing
a contract for services executed in a foreign language and establishing
the amount due thereunder, and only a translation of the contract is
before this court, the decree will not be reversed.

THE facts, which involve the validity of a judgment on
contract for services entered by the District Court of the
United States for Porto Rico, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Hugo Kohlmann, with whom Mr. F. Kingsbury
Curtis and Mr. Martin Travieso, Jr., were on the brief,
for appellant:
Complainant had a full, adequate and complete remedy
at law, and was not entitled to specific performance, accounting or any other equitable relief.
No fraud either legal or actual was alleged or proved.
Even if'it did exist, it would not be ground for equitable

jurisdiction.
The contract was purely one of employment and not of
a partnership.
No other ground of equitable jurisdiction existed in the
case at bar.
Complainant's 'prayer for specific performance did. uot
confer equitable ,jurisdiction.

VALDES v. LARRINAGA.
233 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

The fact that complainant's compensation under the
contract was fixed at a proportion of the profits realized
by the defendant from the franchise did not entitle him to
an accounting in equity.
The contract in suit being one for contingent compensation for services in procuring legislation, or other action
by public bodies or officials, is against public policy and
void and therefore not enforceable either in law or in equity.
The franchise or concession, in the profits of which
appellee by reason of his contract claims to share, was
declared forfeited by the executive council and appellant
did not sell or purport to sell the same or make any profit
thereon.
The contract in any event limited appellee's compensation to ten per cent. of the profit derived by appellant
from the franchise itself, and there could be no recovery
of the total price received by appellant for valuable lands
and easements conveyed by the deed of June 1, 1905.
In support of these contentions, see Ambler v. Choteau,
107 U. S. 586; Babbott v. Tewksbury, 46 Fed. Rep. 86;
Berthold v. Goldsmith, 24 How. 536; Brown v. Equitable
Life Assur. Society, 142 Fed. Rep. 835; S. C., 213 U. S. 25;
'Busard v. Houston, 119 U. S. 347; Clippinger v. HepbMugh, 5 W. & S. (Pa.), 315; Grieb v. Equitable Life Assur.
Soc., 189 Fed. Rep. 498; Hazelton v. Sheckells, 202 U. S. 71;
Martin v. Wilson, 155 Fed. Rep. 97; S. C., 210 U. S. 432;
Meehan v. Valentine, 145 U. S. 611; Nutt v. Knut, 200 U. S.
12; Parkersburgv. Brown, 106 U. S. 487; Paton v. Majors,
46 Fed. Rep. 210; Providence Tool Co. v. Norris, 2 Wall. 45;
Root v. Railway Co., 105 U.. S. 189; Safford v. Ensign Mfg.
Co., 120 Fed. Rep. 480; Scott v. Neely, 140 U. S. 106;
Sussman v. Porter, 137 Fed. Rep. 161; Trist v. Child, 21
Wall. 441; United States v. Bitter Root Co., 200 U.S. 451;
Washburn & Moen Mfg. Co. v. Freeman Wire Co., 41 Fed.
Rep. 410; Weed v. Black, 2 MacArthur (D. C.), 268; Wood
v. McCann, 6 Dana (Ky.), ;366.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

Barry v. Capen, 151 Massachusetts, 99; Boom Co. v.
Patterson, 98 U. S. 43; Dunham v. Hastings Improvement
Co., 57 App. Div. 426; S. C., 118 App. Div. 127; Houlton
v. Nichol, 93 Wisconsin, 393; McBratney v. Chandler,
22 Kansas, 482; Mathewson v. Clarke, 6 How. 122; Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 451; Salinas v. Stillman,
66 Fed. Rep. 677; Stanton v. Embrey, 93 U. S. 548; Taylor
v. Bemiss, 110 U. S. 42, relied upon by appellee can all
be distinguished from this case.
Mr. Frederic D. McKenney, with whom Mr. Edward S.
Painewas on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill in equity for an account under a contract
between the parties, upon which the plaintiff (appellee),
obtained a decree for $13,000 and interest. The contract
was embodied in letters, as follows, according to the official
translation: On October 30, 1898, Valdes wrote to Larrinaga
reciting that he had applied for 'a water franchise from
the river Plata, place called Salto, for the purpose of
developing electric power,' while Larrinaga was Assistant
Secretary of 'Fomento,' (now Department of the Interior),
and going on, "So that you may help me in getting it
through, and in all the rest in connection with said franchise, such as plans, projects, and in everything concerning the technical part thereof, I need a person of my absolute confidence, and as you deserve it fully to me, and
not believing that this is inconsistent with your present
position of Chief Engineer of Harbor Works, I propose to
interest you in the profits of said concession in the amount
of a 10%, provided that you accept the obligations hereinabove mentioned." The next day Larrinaga answered
acknowledging the letter "Wherein you propose me a
share of 10% in the property of the concession for the

VALDF_; v. LARRINAGA.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

utilization of waters from the La-Plata River at the point
called el Salto, near Comerio, I, in exchange to help you
in the steps to be gone through and in everything in connection with said concession, such as plans, projects,
and all what concerns to the technical part.-I hereby
accept the participation of 10% of said concession in
exchange of my persona[ or professional services without
any obligation on my part" to contribute money to the
exploitation.
It is objected in the first place that the case is not one
for equitable relief. Bul; whether the contract created a
partnership under the definition of the Civil Code of
Porto Rico, ยง 1567, as argued by the appellee, or not, it
gave the appellee an equitable interest in the concession
to the extent of securing his share of the profits, if any,
and attached to these profits specifically if and when they
came into being. Barnes v. Alexander, 232 U. S. 117, 121.
It established a fiduciary relation between Valdes, who
had legal control, and the plaintiff. The bill alleges an
abuse of the relation by a secret transaction from which
it is alleged that the profits accrued. It is a proper case for
equitable relief.
It is contended more energetically that the contract
was against public policy. We shall not speculate nicely
as to exactly what the law was in Porto Rico at the time
when the contract was made, but shall give the plaintiff
the benefit of the decisions upon which he relies, such as
Hazelton v. Sheckells, 202 U. S. 71. But we discover
nothing in the language of the letters that necessarily
imports, or even persuasively suggests any improper intent or dangerous tendency. Larrinaga had ceased to be
Assistant Secretary, and while in that position had refused
to take part in the plan. His answer, which must control
if. there is any difference, as the parties went ahead on it
(Minneapolis & St. Louis Ry. Co. v. Columbus Rolling Mill
Co., 119 U. S. 149), binds him to help in the steps to be

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

gone through, and in the technical part. If his help in
the steps to be gone through was not to be, like the rest
of his work, in the technical part alone, still there is nothing to indicate that it was of a kind that could not be
stipulated for. In view of the subject-matter, a grant,
it would seem to a riparian owner, of the right to use
water power for public service, the things done, such as
joining in an application to the Military Governor for a
franchise on the footing of a joint interest, or helping to
present it to the Secretary of War when it came up to him,
or preparing plans and specifications to be presented to
the Executive Council of Porto Rico when the first franchise granted by the Secretary of War had been lost by
not complying with its terms, have no sinister smack.
We see nothing to control the decision of the District
Judge that the contract was not against the policy of the
law.
As we have intimated, the Executive Council of Porto
Rico was applied to after the loss of the first franchise, and
it granted a new one on December 17, 1900; but after
some extensions of time it declared the grant forfeited
in July, 1902. Valdes and the plaintiff, however, did not
admit the forfeiture, and Valdes procured the formation of a Maine corporation to take over his rights. On
January 14, 1905, he made a preliminary contract for the
sale of the franchise alleged to be forfeited and lands,
easements, and options for use in connection with the
same, reciting that he had petitioned for a new concession,
or confirmation of the franchise.. For this he was to receive $27,000, par value, of the mortgage bonds of the new
company and $102,778, par value, of its stock, to be put
in escrow until the company got a good title to the water
rights and the franchise applied for. On June 1, 1905, in
pursuance of the contract, a conveyance was made of the
easements and lands that Valdes owned on the La Plata
and his right to construct works there on the terms above

VALDES v. LARRINAGA.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

mentioned, with a slight change of the figures, to $28,000
and $103,000 respectively. The franchise was granted on
January 4, 1906, the, grant expressly providing that it
should not be deemed a recognition of any right of Valdes
to any previous grant.
On these facts it is argued that the concession in which
Larrinaga was interested was not sold by Valdes and was
not the source of any profit. That Valdes purported to
sell it by his conveyance, as he agreed to sell it by the contract which the conveyance referred to and executed, or
else that his rights under it passed sub silentio with the
land, we think admits of no doubt. And while it may be
true that the sale would not be likely to have taken place
without a confirmation or re-grant of the franchise, still,
as between these parties, it seems fairly probable that there
was a continuous pursuit, of the end; that, while the franchise gave the value to the land, the land gave a locus
standi to the franchise; that, notwithstanding the disclaimer of the Executive Council, the position of Valdes
as riparian owner and previous grantee had their effect
on the final grant; and that at all events when the contract was made on January 14, 1905, Larrinaga became
entitled to receive his ten per cent. when that contract
should be carried out.
The last objection to the decree is, that the court did
not deduct from the sum paid the value of the other property which entered into the consideration. We do not
think it clear that Larrinaga did not stipulate for ten per
cent. of the land as well as of the franchise. The Spanish
is not before us, and the -words '10% in the property of
the concession' well might mean that. At all events no
error of magnitude is made out, and without mentioning
every detail it is enough to add that no sufficient reason
is shown why the decree should not be affirmed.
Decree affirmed.

