OCTOBER TERM, 1913.

Syllabus.

233 U. 8.

the power into play that its exertion ought not to receive
judicial sanction. But this simply calls upon us to substitute judicial discretion for the discretion lodged by the
law and the contract in the Postmaster General, a power
which of course it is beyond our competency to exercise.
Let it be conceded that if the truth be admitted of all the
facts as to the unfbreseen difficulties, the stress of storm
and blizzard and snow and ice and freshet, which prevailed
as averred over the trackless wilderness through which
the mail route extended, a case of great hardship would be
established, the very truth of the averments referred to
also naturally suggests the reasons which in the exercise
of a wise discretion may have called into play the exertion
of the power to discontinue the contract in the public
interest and for the public benefit. As under the conditions stated the hardships alleged were but the result of
a mistake of the petitioner in making an improvident contract, relief can only be obtained at the hands of Congress.
Affirmed.

BROWNING v. CITY OF WAYCROSS.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
GEORGIA.
No. 259. Argued March 11, 1914.-Decided April 6, 1914.
A State may not burden, by taxation or otherwise, the taking of orders
in one State for goods to be shipped from another, or the shipment of
such goods in the channel of interstate commerce up to and including
the consummation by delivery of the goods at the point of destination.
The business of erecting in one State lightning rods shipped from an-

other State, under the circumstances of this case, was within the
regulating power of the former State and not the subject of interstate commerce. Caldwell v. North Carolina, 187 U. S. 622; Rearick

BROWNING v. WAYCROSS.
233 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

v. Pennsylvania, 203 U. S. 507, Dozier v. Alabama, 218 U. S. 124,
distinguished.
Parties may not by the form of a ion-essential contract convert an exclusively local business subject to state control into an interstate
commerce business protected by the commerce clause so as to remove it from the taxing power of the State.
Qu&re, whether interstate commerce may not under some conditions
continue to apply to an artick shipped from one State to another
after delivery and up to and including the time when the article is
put together and made operative in the place of destination.
11 Ga. App. 46, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under the
commerce clause of the Federal Constitution of a municipal occupation tax on lightning rod agents and dealers,
are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Richard A. Jones, with whom Mr. J. L. Sweat and
Mr. Nathan Frank were on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The sale and purchase of lightning rods located in another State, to be transported in pursuance thereof in
interstate traffic to the place of delivery in the State of
Georgia, fixed under the terms of such contract of purchase, was an interstate transaction. Crenshaw v. Arkansas, 227 U. S. 389; Caldwell v. North Carolina,187 U. S.
622; Rearick v. Pennsylvania, 203 U. S. 507.
The erection of lightning rods by the plaintiff in error
was in pursuance of and as a part of sale transactions constituting interstate commerce and a necessary incident
thereof, and the tax sought to be collected from him for
the exercise of such function is within the prohibition
against burdening commerce among the States by licenses,
tax, or any'system of state regulation. Crutcher v. Kentucky, 141 U. S. 47, 62; Caldwellv. North Carolina,187 U. S.
622, 628; Barrett v. New York, 232 U. S. 14.
Aside from such as may properly be put in effect in the
exercise of its police power, any regulation or enactment of
a State or political subdivision thereof, wLich tends to
VOL. ccxxxiii-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Counsel for Defendant in Error.

233 U. S.

materially interfere with, hinder, or obstruct the making
or performance of contracts for commerce among the
States, or anything reasonably incident thereto, is a burden upon such commerce which may not be laid other than
by authority of the National Government.
The character of the incidents allowed to constitute
parts of such contracts within the protection of the commerce -clause of the Constitution and of the acts which
have been held to constitute unwarranted interference
therewith are illustrated by the following cases: Dozier v.
Alabama, 218 U. S. 124; Barrettv. New York, 232 U. S. 14;
Rearick v.. Penn8ylvania,203 U. S. 507; InternationalText
Book Co. v. Pigg; 217 U. S. 91; Brown v. Maryland, 12
Wheat. 436, 444.
It was necessary for the employer of plaintiff in error,
in order to carry on the-business in which it was engagedthe: manufacture. and sale of lightning rods--to, in connection with such sales, erect through one of its skilled employds the rods upon the buildings for which intended.
The consideration for and a part of such contract of sale
was this agreement to deliver the rods placed upon the
structure for which purchased. Until so attached the
delivery was not complete or contract fulfilled. Plaintiff
in error was not in any respect engaged in erecting or
putting up lightning rods except in so far as he performed
such service for his employer in connection with the transactions described.
This tax directly burdens commence among the States
in the character of commodities involved.
The ordinance is, as applied to the subject-matter herein
involved, in violation of the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution.
Mr. Thomas S. Felder, Attorney General of the State of
Georgia and Mr. W. W. Lambdin, for defendant in error,
submitted.

BROWNING v. WAYCROSS.
233 U. S.

.Opinion of the Court.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHrTE, delivered the opinion of the

court.
The plaintiff in error wms charged in a municipal court
with violating an ordinance which imposed an annual
occupation tax of $25 upon" lightning rod agents or dealers
engaged in putting up or erecting -lightning rods within
the corporate limits" of the City of Waycross. Although
admitting that he had carried on the business he pleaded
not guilty and defended upon the ground that he had done
so as the agent of a St. Louis corporation on whose behalf
he had solicited orders for the sale of lightning rods; had
received the rods when- shipped on such orders from St.
Louis and had erected them for the corporation, the price
paid for the rods to the corporation including the duty to
erect them without further charge. This it -was asserted
constituted the carrying on of interstate commerce which
the city could not tax without violating the Constitution
of the United States. Although the facts alleged were
established without dispute, there was a conviction and
sentence .and the same result followed from a trial de novo
in the Superior Court of Ware County where the case was
carried by certiorari. On error to the Court of Appeals that
judgment was affirmed, the court stating its reasons for
doing so in a careful and discriminating opinion reviewing
,and adversely passing upon the defense under the Constitution of the United States (11 Ga. App. 46). From
that judgment this writ of error is prosecuted because of
the constitutional question and because under the law
of Georgia the Court of Appeals had final authority to
conclude the issue.
The general principles by which it has been so frequently determined that a State may not burden -by taxation or otherwise the "taking of orders in one State for
goods to be shipped from another or the shipment of
such goods in the channels of interstate commerce up

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

238 U. S.

to and including the consummation by delivery of the
goods at the point of shipment have been so often stated
as to cause them to be elementary and as to now require
nothing but a mere outline of the principle. The sole question, therefore, here is whether carrying on the business
of erecting lightning rods in the State under the conditions
established, was interstate commerce beyond the power
of the State to regulate or directly burden. The solution
of the inquiry will, we think, be most readily reached by
briefly reviewing a few of the more recently decided cases
which are relied upon to establish that although the interstate transit of the lightning rods had terminated and
they had been delivered at the point of destination to the
agent of the seller, the business of subsequently attaching them to the houses, for which they were intended,
constituted the carrying on of interstate commerce. The
cases relied on are Caldwell v. North Carolina, 187 U. S.
622; Rearick v. Pennsylvania, 203 U. S. 507 and Dozier
v. Alabama, 218 U. S. 124.
Caldwell v. North Carolina concerned the validity of an
ordinance of the village of Greensboro, imposing a tax
upon the business of selling or delivering picture frames,
photographs, etc. The question was whether Caldwell,
the agent of an Illinois corporation, was liable for this tax
because in Greensboro he had taken from a railroad freight
office certain packages of frames and pictures which were
awaiting delivery and which had been shipped to Greensboro by the selling corporation to its own order for the
purpose of filling orders previously obtained by its agents
in North Carolina. After the packages of frames and
pictures were received by Caldwell, in a room in a hotel,
the pictures and frames were fitted together and were
delivered to those who had ordered them. The assertion
that there was liability for the tax was based on the contention that the act of Caldwell in receiving the pictures
and frames and bringing them together was not under the

BROWNING v. WAYCROSS.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

protection of the commerce clause, but was the transaction
of local business after the termination of interstate commerce, especially because the pictures and frames had been
shipped from Chicago in separate packages and, because
the pictures and frames were incomplete on their arrival,
and were made complete in the State by the union accomplished after the end of their movement in interstate
commerce. Both of these propositions were decided
to be unsound and it was adjudged that as both the pictures and frames had been. ordered from another State
and their shipment was the fulfillment of an interstate
commerce transaction, the mere fact that they were
shipped in separate packages and brought together at the
termination of the transit, did not amount to the transaction of business within North Carolina which the State
could tax without placing a direct burden upon interstate
commerce. In Rearick v. Pennsylvania, where the right
to levy a tax was decided not to exist because to sustain
it would be a direct burden upon interstate commerce,
the only question was whether the form in which certain
shipments of goods were made from Ohio into Pennsylvania to fill orders was of such a character as to cause the
act of the agent of the shipper, who opened the packages
for the purpose of distributing the goods to those for whom
they were intended, to amount to the carrying on of
business in the State of Pennsylvania. Dozier v. Alabama
in substance concerned the principles applied- in the two
previous cases with the modification that it was there held
that because there was no binding. obligation on a purchaser to accept the frame which was to accompany a
picture ordered from another State and transmitted
through interstate commerce, did not take the case out
of the previous ruling.
It is evident that these cases when rightly considered,
instead of sustaining, serve to refute, the claim of protection under the interstate commerce clause which is here

OCTOBER TERM, 1013.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

relied upon since the cases were concerned only with mer-

chandise which had moved in interstate commerce and
where the transactions which it was asserted amounted to
the doing of local business consisted only of acts concerning
interstate commerce goods, dissociated from any attempt
to connect them with or make them a part in the State
of property which had not and could not have been the
subject of interstate commerce. Thus, in Caldwell v.
North Carolina,the court laid emphasis upon the fact that
the shipment of the pictures in interstate commerce in
one package and the! frames in another was not essential
but accidental for the two could have been united at the
point of shipment before interstate commerce began as
well as be brought together after delivery at the point of
destination. And this was also the condition in the Rearick
Cage. Indeed, it is apparent in all three cases that there
was not the slightest purpose to enlarge the scope of interstate commerce so as to cause it to embrace acts and
transactions theretofore confessedly local, but simply
to prevent the recognized local limitations from being
used to put the conceded interstate commerce power in a
straight-jacket so as to destroy the possibilities of its
being adapted to meet mere changes in the form by which
business of an inherently interstate commerce character
could be carried on.
We are of the opinion that the court below was right in
holding that the business of erecting lightning rods under
the circumstances disclosed, was within the regulating
power of the State and not the subject of interstate commerce for the following reasons: (a) Because the affixing of
lightning rods to houses, was the carrying on of a business
of a strictly local character, peculiarly within the exclusive control of state authority. (b) Because, besides,
such business was wholly separate from interstate commerce, involved no question of the delivery of property
shipped in interstate commerce or of the right to complete

BROWNING v. WAYCROSS.
233 U. S.

Opinion of theCourt.

an interstate commerce transaction, but concerned merely
the doing of a local act after interstate commerce had completely terminated. It is true, that it was shown that the
contract under which the rods were shipped bound the
seller, at his own expense, to attach the rods to the houses
of the persons who ordered rods, but it was not within the
power of the parties by the form of their contract to convert what was exclusively a local business, subject to state
control, into an interstate commerce business protected
by the commerce clause. ]It is manifest that if the right
here asserted were recognized or the power to accomplish
by contract what is here claimed, were to be upheld, all
lines of demarkation between National and state authority
would become obliterated, since it would necessarily follow
that every kind or form of material shipped from one
State to the other and intended to be used after delivery
in the construction of buildings or in the making of improvements in any form would or could be made interstate commerce.
Of course we are not called upon here to consider how
far interstate commerce might be held to continue to
apply to an article shipped from one State to another,
after delivery and up to and including the time when the
article was put together or made operative in the place
of destination in a case where because of some intrinsic
and peculiar quality or inherent complexity of the article,
the making of such agreement was essential to the accomplishment of the interstate transaction. In saying this
we are not unmindful of the fact that some suggestion is
here made that the putting up of the lightning rods after
delivery by the agent of the seller was so vital and so
essential as to render it impossible to contract without
an agreement to that effect, a suggestion however which
we deem it unnecessary to do more than mention in order
to refute it.
Affirmed.

