BOSTON & MAINE RD. v. HOOKER.
233 U. S.

Syllabus.

the fact that it was in excess of the cash value of the property. The conclusion which we have reached renders it
unnecessary for us to pass upon the findings in this respect,
which, notwithstanding the! decision in the court below,
are placed in the special findings upon which the case is
sent here.
Nor do we need to pass upon the alleged violation of the
equality protection of the Constitution in the finding that
other patented mining claims in Cochise County at the
time of the assessment .in1901 were assessed as a rule at
the uniform rate of $5.00 per acre. Nor need we consider
the ground upon which the Supreme Court of Arizona
seems to have acted in part that the assessment rolls and
tax book varied from the complaint in the description of
the property.
It follows that the judgment of the Supreme Court of the
Territory of Arizona must be affrmed.

BOSTON AND MAINE RAILROAD v. HOOKER.
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF-MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 121.

Argued December 10, 11, 1913.-Decided April 6, 1914.

Congress, by the Hepburn Act and the Carmack amendment in 1906,
has regulated the subject of interstate transportation of property by
Federal law to the exclusion of the States to control it by their own
policy or legislation. Pennsyhvania v. Hughes, 191 U. S. 477, distinguished, having been decided prior to the passage of the Hepburn

Act.
VOL. ccxxxiii-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Case.

233 U. S.,

Knowledge of the shipper that the rate is based on value is to be presumed from the terms of the bill of lading and of the published
schedules filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission, and the
effect of so filing the schedules makes the published rates binding
upon shipper and carrier alike.
The limitation of liability of carriers for passengers' baggage is covered
by the Interstate Commerce Act and the Carmack amendment
to the Hepburn Act applies thereto as well as to liability for shipments of freight.
Under § 6 of the Interstate Commerce Act carriers must include in the
schedules of rates filed regulations affecting passengers' baggage and
the limitations of liability.
A provision in a tariff schedule that the passenger must declare the
value of his baggage and pay stated excess charges for excess li.bility over the stated value to be carried free, is a regulation within
the meaning of §§ 6 and 22 of the Interstate Commerce Act
and as such is sufficient to give the shipper notice of the limitation.
In construing a statute, the practical interpretation given to it by the
administrative body charged with its enforcement is entitled to
weight.
The effect of permitting the carrier to file regulations as to passengers' baggage which limit its liability except on payment of
specified rates is not to change the common law rule that the
carrier is an insurer against its own negligence but simply that
the carrier shall obtain commensurate compensation for the responsibility assumed.
Where charges for full liability as specified in the published tariff are
unreasonable, they can only be attacked before the Interstate
Commerce Commission.
Congress is familar with the customs of travelers including that of
checking baggage; and so held that a baggage check is sufficient
compliance as to passengers' baggage with the provision in the
Carmack amendment for issuing a receipt or bill of lading for the
shipment.
If the subject needs regulation it is within the power of the Interstate
Commerce Commission, under §§ 1 and 15 of the Act of June 18,
1910, to make requirements as to checks or receipts to be given for
baggage by common carriers.
209 Massachusetts, 598, reversed.
THE facts, which involve the construction of the Car-

BOSTON & MAINE RD. v. HOOKER.
233 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

mack Amendment to the Hepburn Act and' the right of a
common carrier which has filed schedules containing regulations as to passengers' baggage to limit its liability for
loss of such baggage caused by its own negligence to the
extent and in the manner specified in the schedules, are
stated in the opinion.
Mr. Frederick N. Wier, with whom Mr. Edgar J. Rich
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
Congress has assumed exclusive jurisdiction of the
subject-matter in issue thereby making the determination
of the effect and validity of the baggage regulations of the
plaintiff in error a Federal question.
Rates, parts of rates, and regulations affecting or determining rates, fares, and charges, or the value of the service
rendered, have the force of law and therefore enter into,
and become a part of all contracts for interstate transportation.
The regulations contained in the schedules of the
railroad company providing for carrying 150 pounds of
personal baggage not exceeding $100 in value free
for each passenger on presentation of a full ticket and
specifying rates for excess value, have the force of
law.
Such regulations are not void as being contrary to the
common law or as against public policy or in violation of
any Federal statute.
The reasonableness of the regulations is not in
issue.
The regulations do not offend any principle of common
law or public policy.
The regulations are not in violat:on of any Federal
statute.
Such regulations are a part of the rates, and are regulations affecting or determining rates, fares, and charges, or
the value of the service rendered, and when contained in

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

233 U. S.

the schedules of the plaintiff in error had the force, of law
and entered into and became a part of the contract with
defendant in error.
The regulations affected and determined rates, fares,
and charges.
The regulations affected and determined the value of
the service rendered.
Upon the ground of estoppel the limit of liability is $100
and would be even if the regulations of the railroad company were confined to the first paragraph.
In support of these contentions, see Adams Ex. Co. v.
Croninger, 226 U. S. 491; Andrews v. Andrews, 188 U. S.
14; Alair v. North Pacific R. R., 53 Minnesota, 160;
Armour Packing Co. v. United States, 209 U. S. 56;
Bernard v. Adams Exp. Co., 205 Massachusetts, 254;
Blumantle v. Fitchburg R. R., 127 Massachusetts, 322;
Chicago & Alton Ry. Co-. v. Kirby, 225 U. S. 155; Fourth
Nat. Bank v. Olney, 63 Michigan, 58; Hammond v. Whittredge, 204 U. S. 538; Hart v. Penn. R. R. Co., 112 U. S.
331; Hoeger v. Chi., Mil. & St. P. Ry. Co., 63 Wisconsin,
100; Re Released Raes, 13 1. C. C. 550; Jordanv. Massachusetts, 225 U. S. 167; Kansas City Ry/ Co. v. Carl, 227 U. S.
639; Louis. & Nash. Ry. v. Motley, 219 U. S. 467; Mo., Kan.
& Tex. Ry. Co. v. Harriman, 227 U. S. 657; N. Y. C. &
H. R. R. R. Co. v. Fraloff, 100 U. S. 531; N. Y., N. H. &
H. R. R. v. Int. Com. Comm., 200 U. S. 361; Polleys v. Black
River Imp. Co., 113 U. S. 81; Squire v. N. Y. C. R. R. Co.,
98 Massachusetts, 239; Stanley v. Schwalby, 162 U. S.
255; Tex. & Pac. Ry. Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil Co., 204
U. S. 426; Tex. & Pac. Ry. Co. v. Mugg, 202 U. S. 242;
Wells, Fargo & Co. v. Neiman-Marcus Co., 227 U. S. 469;
York Co. v. Central R. R., 3 Wall. 1Q7.
Mr. Samuel Williston for defendant in error:
The carrier and its agents, having received possession of
the goods, were charged with the duty of delivering them

BOSTON & MAINE RD. v. HOOKER.
233 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

or explaining why that had not been done. Galveston Ry.
Co. v. Wallace, 223 U. S. 481, 492.
There is no question involved of the limits of Federal
and state laws.
By the rule of the common law a limitation of liability
was invalid unless a special contract was made by which
the shipper agreed thereto, or unless the shipper was estopped by misrepresentation. Brown v. Eastern R. R., 11
Cush. 97; Malone v. Boston & Worcester R. R., 12 Gray,
388; Graves v. Adams Exp. Co., 176 Massachusetts, 280;
John Hood Co. v. Am. Pneumatic Co., 191 Massachusetts,
27; The Majestic, 166 U. S. 375; Henderson v. Stevenson,
L. R. 2 H. L. (Sc.) 470, 481.
There can be no limitation of liability without the
assent of the shipper. Cau v. Texas & Pacific Ry. Co.,
194 U. S. 427, 431; N. J. Steam Nay. Co. v. Merchants'
Bank, 6 How. 344.
The law in the absence of special contract fixes the
degree of care and diligence due from the railroad company
to persons carried on its trains. York Co. v. Central Railroad, 3 Wall. 107; Railroad Co. v. Lockwood, 17 Wall.
357; Hart v. Pennsylvania R. R., 112 U. S. 331, 343;
Liverpool Steam Co. v. Phcenix Ins. Co., 129 U. S. 397, 441,
442; Saunders v. Southern Railway, 128 Fed. Rep. 15.
Similar decisions have been made in recent years in
precisely the same manner as before the passage of the
Interstate Commerce Acts. Williams v. Central R. R. Co.,
183 N. Y. 518; S. C., 93 N. Y. App. Div. 582; Martin v.
CentralR. R. Co., 121 N. Y. App. Div. 552; Homer v. Oregon Short Line, 128 Pac. Rep. 522; Black v. Atlantic Coast
Line, 82 So. Car. 478;,Elliott on Railroads (4th ed.),.§ 1510;
Hutchinson on Carriers (3d ed.), §§ 401, 405; Pennsylvania
R. R. v. Hughes, 191 U. S. 477; Adams Express Co. v.
Green, 112 Virginia, 527.
A few States have upheld to its full extent a contract
of valuation or limiting liability, but have also held that

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

233 U. S.

no merely formal assent can be inferred from accepting
a bill of lading or a receipt without actual knowledge of
its contents, and without the shipper's attention being
called by the carrier to the limitation, though an agreement made with full knowledge of the situation would
bind the shipper. See Hutchinson, Carriers (3d ed.),
§ 410; Plaff v. Pacific Exp. Co., 251 Illinois, 243; Hill v.
Adams Exp. Co., 82 N. J. L. 373; Wichern v. U. S. Exp.
Co., 83 N. J. L. 241.
The ground upon which the validity of a limitation
upon a recovery for loss or damage due to negligence
depends is that of estoppel. Wells, Fargo & Co. v. NeimanMarcus Co., 227 U. S. 469, 476; Kansas City So. Ry. Co.
v. Carl, 227 U. S. 639, 651. Adams Express Co. v. Cron-.
inger, 226 U. S. 491, distinguished.
While in Massachusetts it has been the law that the
acceptance of a document binds one who receives it,
though he may not choose to read it, as held in Grace v.
Adams, 100 Massachusetts, 505; Grinnell v. West. Un. Tel.
Co., 113 Massachusetts, 299; Hoadley v. Nor. Transp. Co.,
115 Massachusetts, 304; Clement v. West. Un. Tel. Co., 137
Massachusetts, 463; Graves v. Adams Exp. Co., 176 Massachusetts, 280, and see Cau v. Tex. & Pac. Ry. Co., 194
U. S. 427, 431, it has also been the law both of this court
and of the Massachusetts court that a public notice of an
asserted limitation by the carrier, even though the shipper
was aware of it (which was not the fact in the case at bar),
does not have the effect of an agreement or representation.
Some actual assent is necessary. N. J. Steam Nay. Co. v.
Merchants' Bank, 6 Howard, 344, 382; Railroad Co. v.
Manufacturing Co., 16 Wall. 318, 328; Judson v. West.
R. R. Corp., 6 Allen, 486, 491; Buckland v. Adams Exp.
Co., 97 Massachusetts, 124, 131. See also 1 Hutchinson
on Carriers, 3d ed., § 406; Henderson v. Stevenson, L. R. 2
H. L. (Sc.) 470; Richardson v. Rowntree (1894), A. C. 217;
Parkerv. SoutheasternRy. Co., 2 C. P. D. 416.

BOSTON & MAINE RD. v. HOOKER.
233 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

A limitation of liability is not a rate. It is a limitation
or diminution of the service, agreed to generally in order
to secure a lower rate. The carrier's reward ought to be
proportionate to the risk. Kansas City So. Ry. Co. v.
Carl, 227 U. S. 639, 650; Railroad Co. v. Fraloff, 100 U. S.
24, 27.
The Carl Case is not to be understood as meaning that a
imitation of liability or the valuation on which such a
limitation is based is literally part of the rate itself.
Adams Express Co. v. Croninger, 226 U. S. 491, 509;
Bernard v. Adams Exp. Co., 205 Massachusetts, 254, 259.
It is a contract as to what the property isin reference
to its value. The only ground upon which the limitation
can stand is that it was filed as part of the rate. Estoppel
can in no way enlarge or diminish or in any way affect a
filed rate. Wells, Fargo & Co. v. Neiman-Marcus Co., 227
U. S. 469, 475; Kansas City So. Ry. Co. v. Carl, 227 U. S.
639, 651.
The amendments to the Interstate Commerce Act in
1906 did not change the law either as to what a rate is
or what the effect is of a rate duly filed. Whatever is
now binding as a rate upon a shipper was binding before
1906. The Majestic, 166 U. S. 375; Cau v. Tex. & Pac.
Ry. Co., 194 U. S. 427, 431; Saunders v. Southern Ry., 128
Fed. Rep. 15; Chi., Mil. &c. Ry. Co. v. Solan, 169 U. S. 133;
PennsylvaniaR. R. v. Hughes, 191 U. S. 477.
A limitation of liability in any form except by contract
or a representation by the shipper has never been permitted by the law. The attempt to escape from this rule
of the common law is as ineffectual as the attempt to
escape the statutory liability cast upon an initial carrier
by the Carmack Amendment, which was held futile in
Atlantic Coast Line v. Riverside Mills, 219 U. S. 186;
Galveston &c. Ry. Co. v. Wallace, 223 U. S. 481; Norf. &
West. Ry. Co. v. Dixie Tobacco Co., 228 U. S. 593.
A limitation of liability is not within the meaning of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

'

233 U. S.

words "Rule, Regulation, or Practice." Curry v. Marvin,
2 Florida, 411, 415; In re Leasing of State Lands, 18
Colorado, 359; Martin v. Cent. R. R. Co., 121 N. Y. App.
Div. 552, 553. Railroad Company v. Fraloff, 100. U. S.
24, 27, distinguished.
A regulation which needs the assent of the person who
is to be regulated as a condition of its efficacy is not
properly called a regulation. It is not even an offer,
until brought to the knowledge of the person to whom it
is addressed.
There is no provision for the filing of contracts with
shippers and no method of making them public defined
in the statute. Armour Packing Co. v. United States, 209
U. S. 56, 81; Louis. & Nash. Ry. v. Mottley, 219 U. S. 467,
479.
The fact that a proposed limitation of a carrier's liability must be filed as part of the tariff does not involve
the conclusion that all shippers thereupon become bound
by the limitation. Wehmann v. Minneapolis Ry. Co., 58
Minnesota, 22, 29; Mannheim Ins. Co. v. Erie &c. Transp.
Co., 72 Minnesota, 357.
The passenger was not chargeable with constructive
assent to the asserted limitation of liability.
A law or a statute is binding, whether persons subject to
the law are aware of it or not. A rate duly filed is unquestionably equally binding; but shippers are not conclusively presumed to know it. Kansas City So. Ry. Co. V.
Carl, 227 U. S. 639, 652; 'Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. Int.
Coal Co., 230 U. S. 184, 197; Potter v. United States, 155
U. S. 438; Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 164 Fed. Rep.
376; Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 179 Fed. Rep. 614;
Armour Packing Co. v. United States 209 U. S. 56, 85.
There is no estoppel barring defendant in error from
showing the value of her baggage. Kansas City So. Ry.
Co. v. Carl, 227 U. S. 639, 651; Matter of Released Rates,
13I. C. C. 550

BOSTON & MAINE RD. v. HOOKER.
233 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Judicial decisions do not support the construction of the
statute contended for by the plaintiff in error.
Although a shipper has no redress because a rate is
unreasonable, except by the direct proceedings allowed
by the act, Tex. & Pac. Ry. Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil Co.,
204 U. S. 426; Robinson v. oBalt. & Ohio R. Co., 222 U. S.
506; PennsylvaniaR. R. Co. v. Int. Coal Co., 230 U. S. 184;
Mitchell Coal Co. v. Pennsylvania R. R. Co., 230 U. S. 247,
and the unreasonableness of a rule, regulation, or practice
of a carrier must be objected to in the same way, Balt. &
Ohio R. R. v. United States, 215 U. S. 481; Morrisdale
Coal Co. v. PennsylvaniaR. R. Co., 230 U. S. 304, an assertion contained in the tariff, even if made in terms (as it
was not), that the passenger does make such an agreement,
still less an assertion that liability is limited, unless a
contract is made, is neither a rate, a rule, a regulation, or a
practice, and the question of its reasonableness can be
raised in the courts. A&ms Exp. Co. v. Croninger, 226
U. S. 491; Chi., B. & Q. Ry. Co. v. Miller, 226 U. S.'513;
Chicago, St. Paul &c. Ry. Co. v. Latta, 226 U. S. 519;
Wells, Fargo & Co. v. Neiman-Marcus Co., 227 U. S. 469;
Kansas City Ry. Co. v. Carl, 227 U. S. 639; Mo., Kans. &
Tex. Ry. Co. v. Harriman, 227 U. S. 657, do not conflict
with this; and see Bernard v. Adams Exp. Co., 205 Massachusetts, 254; Greenwald v. Barrett, 199 N. Y. 170.
There is no discrimination between different travellers
involved in the decision of the Massachusetts court.
Chicago & Alton R. R. v. Kirby, 225 U. S. 155; Kansas City
So. Ry. Co. v. Carl, 227 U. S. 639, 653. Tex. & Pac. R. R.
Co. v. Mugg, 202 U. S. 242; Gulf &c. R. R. Co. v. Hefley,
158 U. S. 98, distinguished. And see Merchants Press Co.
v. Insurance Co., 151 U. S. 368, 388; Judge v. Nor. Pac.
Ry. Co., 189 Fed. Rep. 1014.
The consequences of upholding the contention of the
plaintiff in error show that the contention must be erroneous. Matter of Released Rates, 13 I. C. C. 550.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

The schedules filed make the defendant in error liable
for the excess charge for value and the railroad liable for
the full value of the baggage. Matter of Released Rates,
13 I. C. C. 550; Kansas City So. Ry. Co. v. Carl, 227 U. S.
639, 650.
There is no hardship upon the carrier in the decision below. The obligation imposed by that decision is no greater
than that which everywhere existed prior to the passage
of the Interstate Commerce Acts, and still exists as to
intrastate shipments. York County v. Central Railroad,
3 Wall. 107, 113; Squire v. N. Y. Central R. R., 98 Massachusetts, 239, 248; Hill v. Boston &c. Railroad Co., 144
Massachusetts, 284.
The rule of the common law has not been changed in
regard to such a case as the present. Adams Exp. Co. v.
Croninger, 226 U. S. 491, 511; Greenwald v. Barrett, 199
N. Y. 170, 175; Bernard v. Adams Exp. Co., 205 Massachusetts, 254, 259.
The statute does not diminish the liability for negligence
imposed on the carrier by the common law. Such liability may be enforced in the state courts. Louis. & Nash.
R. R. Co. v. Cook Brewing Co., 223 U. S. 70.
MR. JUSTIcE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
Katharine Hooker brought an action in the Superior
Court of Middlesex County, Massachusetts, to recover
from the Boston & Maine Railroad as a common carrier on
account of the loss of certain baggage belonging to her,
which had been transported by the defendant in interstate
commerce from Boston, Massachusetts, to Sunapee Lake
station, New Hampshire, on September 15, 1908. The
plaintiff recovered a judgment for the value of the baggage lost with interest. The case was taken to the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts upon exceptions
of the defendant, and upon its rescript, returned to the

BOSTON & MAINE RD. v. HOOKER.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Superior Court overruling the exceptions (209 Massachusetts, 598), judgment was there entered for the plaintiff for
$2,253.77.
The defendant insists that the recovery of the plaintiff
should have been limited to the sum of $100, in view of
certain requirements made by it concerning the transportation of baggage and filed with the Interstate Commerce
Commission. From the findings of fact it appears that the
baggage was checked upon. a first class ticket purchased
for the plaintiff (although not used by her, she traveling
upon another similar ticket purchased by herself); that
at the time the baggage was checked the plaintiff had no
notice of the regulations hereinafter referred to limiting
the liabilityof the defendant (further than such notice is
to be pregumed from the schedules filed and posted as
hereinafter stated); that- no inquiry was made by the
defendant on receiving the plaintiff's baggage as to its
value; that there was no evidence that any more expensive
or different mode of transportation was adopted for
baggage the value of which was declared to exceed $100
than for other baggage; that any reasonable person would
infer from the outward appearance of the plaintiff's baggage when tendered to the defendant for transportation
that the value largely exceeded $100, and that the loss of
plaintiff's baggage was due to the negligence of defendant.
The court further found that previous to and during
September, 1908, the defendant had published and kept
open for inspection and filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission, in accordance with the act of Congress relating to interstate' commerce and amendments
thereto and the orders and regulations of the Commission,
schedules giving the rates, -fares and charges for transportation between different points, including Boston and
Sunapee Lake station, all terminal, storage and other
charges required by the Commission, all privileges and
facilities granted or allowed, and all rules or regulations

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

which in any way. affected or determined such rates, fares
and charges or the value of the service rendered to passengers; that during the same time, in accordance with an
order of the Commission of June 2, 1908, making comprehensive regulations as to rate and fare schedules, the
defendant had placed with its agent in Boston all rate and
fare schedules and the terminal and other charges applicable to that station, and had enabled and required him to
keep in accessible form a file of such schedules, and had
instructed him to give information contained therein to
all seeking it and to afford to inquirers opportunity to
examine the schedules, and that the defendant in the
manner shown and in all other ways conformed to the acts
of Congress and the orders and regulations of the Commission with reference to such schedules. The court also
found that the schedules contained provisions limiting
the free transportation of baggage. to a certain weight
and the liability of the defendant to $100, followed by a
table of charges for excess weight, and also contained the
following provision:
"For excess value the rate will be one-half of the current
excess baggage rate per one hundred pounds for each one
hundred dollars, or fraction thereof, of increased value
declared. The minimum charge for excess value will be
15 cents.
"Baggage liability is limited to personal baggage not to
exceed one hundred dollars in value for a passenger presenting a full ticket and fifty dollars in value for a half
ticket, unless a greater value is declared and stipulated by
the owner and excess charges thereon paid at time of
taking the baggage" (p. 600); that the excess charge for
transporting baggage valued at $1,904.50 which was the
value of the baggage lost, from Boston to Sunapee Lake
station during September, 1908, according to the schedtiles, was $4.75; that notices were posted at or near the
offices where passengers' tickets were sold in the Boston

BOSTON & MAINE RD. v. HOOKER.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

station stating that tariffs naming the rates on interstate traffic wore on file with the agent and would be
furnished for inspection upon application, and that notices were posted in the baggage room of that station,
in a conspicuous place and in sight of persons using the
room for checking baggage, reading that personal baggage
not exceeding $100 in value would be checked free for
each passenger on presentation of a first class ticket and
containing information with reference to excess weight.
And the court further found that the plaintiff did not declare at the time her baggage was checked that it exceeded
$100 in value and did not pay any charges for valuation
in excess of that amount.
It is to be borne in mind that the action as tried and
decided in the state court was not for negligence of the
Railroad Company as a warehouseman for the loss of the
baggage after its delivery at Sunapee Lake station, but
was solely upon the contract of carriage in interstate commerce.
The Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, in
deciding the case, held that the Interstate Commerce
Act did not in any wise change the common law rule,
applicable in Massachuketts, that regulations
of this
character, limiting the amount of recovery for baggage
lost, must be brought home to the knowledge of the shipper
and assented to or circumstances shown from which assent might be implied. 'In reaching this conclusion that
learned court relied upon the case of Pennsylvania R. R.
Co. v. Hughes, 191 U. S. 477, in which case it was'held.t'hat
a State might apply its local law-and policy to reco'eYy for
the loss of a horse shipped in interstate commerce from
Albany, New York, to Cynwyd, in the State of Pennsylvania, and injured by the negligence of a carrier in the
latter State, notwithstanding the bill of lading contained
an express condition that the carrier assumed liability
to the extent only of the agreed valuation in event of loss.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

It was further held in the Hughes Case that the Interstate
Commerce Act, in the respect then under. consideration,
had not enacted an exclusive rule upon which recovery
might be had governing responsibility for loss, and that
as the law then stood the State might enforce its own
regulations authorized by statute or judicial decision as to
responsibility for such negligence.
Since the decision in the Hughes Case the Hepburn Act
of June 29, 1906, c. 3591, 34 Stat. 584, has been passed, and
this court has held that by virtue of that act (particularly
§20, the Carmack Amendment) the subject of interstate
transportation of property has been regulated by Federal
law to the exclusion of the power of the States to control
in such respect by their own policy or legislation. In this
connection we may refer to the cases of Adams Express
Co. v. Croninger, 226 U. S. 491; Wells, Fargo & Co. v.
Neiman-Marcus Co., 227 U. S. 469; Kansas City Southern
Ry. Co. v. Carl, 227 U. S. 639; Missouri, Kansas & Texas
Ry. Co. v. Harriman,227 U. S. 657.
The cases in 226 and 227 U. S6, it is true, involved
liability for express or freight shipments made upon express receipts, bills of lading or separate contracts, showing on their face or by reference to tariffs the opportunity
for valuation for the purpose of fixing the rate and liability,
and the limitation appearing in such form of contract
was declared to be valid and effectual to relieve the carrier from a greater liability than that therein expressed.
But the court did not stop there: In Adams Express Co. v.
Croninger, supra, p. 509, it said: "The knowledge of the
shipper that the rate was based upon the value is to be
presumed from the terms of the bill of lading and of the
published schedules filed with the Commission." In
Kansas City Southern Ry. Co. v. Carl, supra, p. 652, this
court said: "The valuation the shipper declares determines the legal rate where there are two rates based upon
valuation. He must take notice of the rate applicable,

BOSTON & MAINE RD. v. HOOKER.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and actual want of knowledge is no excuse. 'The rate
when made out and filed, is notice, and the effect is not
lost, although it is not actually posted in the station.
Texas & Pacific Railway v. Mugg, 202 U. S. 242; Chicago
& Alton Ry. v. Kirby, 225 U. S. 155. It would open a
wide door to fraud and destroy the uniform operation of
the published tariff rate sheets. When there are two published rates, based upon difference in value, the legal rate
automatically attaches itself to the declared or agreed
value. Neither the intentional nor accidental misstatement of the applicable published rate will bind the carrier or shipper. The lawful rate is that which the carrier
must exact and that which the shipper must pay.
(p. 654). To the extent that such limitations of liability
are not forbidden by law, they become, when filed, a part
of the rate." And in Missouri, K. & T. R. Co. v. Harriman, supra, this court said that the shipper was compelled
to take notice of the rate sheets contained in tariff schedules, (p. 669), "not only because referred to in the contract
signed by them, but because they had been lawfully filed
and published. . . (p. 671) When the carrier graduates its rates by value and has filed its tariffs showing
two rates applicable to a -particular commodity or class of
articles, based upon a difference in valuation, the shipper
must take notice, for the valuation automatically determines which of the rates is the lawful rate." In Chicago,
R. I. & P. Ry. Co. v. C:ramer, 232 U. S. 490, this court
said, p. 493: "That rule of liability [the uniform rule
established by the Hepburn Act] is to be enforced in the
light of the fact that the provisions of the tariff enter into
and form a part of the contract of shipment, and if a
regularly filed tariff offers two rates, based on value, and
the goods are forwarded at the low value in order to
secure the low rate, then the carrier may avail itself of
that valuation when sued for loss or damage to the property." And in Great Northern Ry. Co. v. O'Connor, 232

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

U. S. 508, this court said: "But so long as the tariff rate,
based on value, remained operative it was binding upon
the shipper and carrier alike and was to be enforced by
the courts in fixing the rights and liabilities of the parties.
The tariffs are filed with the Commission and are open to
inspection at every station. In view of the multitude of
transactions, it is not necessary that there shall be an
inquiry as to each article or a distinct agreement as to the
value of each shipment. If no value is stated the tariff
rate applicable to such a state of facts applies. If, on the
other hand, there are alternative rates based on value and
the shipper names a value to secure the lower rate, the
carrier, in the absence of something to show rebating or
false billing, is entitled to collect the rate which applies to
goods of that class, and if sued for their loss it is liable
only for the loss of what the shipper had declared them to
be in class and value."
Before these cases were decided this court had held that
the effect of filing schedules of rates with the Interstate
Commerce Commission was to make the published rates
binding upon shipper and carrier alike, thus making
effectual the purpose of the act to have but one rate, open
to all alike and from which there could be no departure.
Gulf, Colorado and Santa Fe Ry. v. Hefley, 158 U. S. 98;
Texas & Pac. Ry. Co. v. Mugg, 202 U. S. 242; Armour
Packing Co. v. United States, 209 U. S. 56, 81; Louis. &
Nash. R. R. v. Mottley, 219 U. S. 467, 476. This principle
it will be perceived was fully recognized in the series of
cases decided since the passage of the Hepburn Act,
beginning with the case of Adams Express Co. v. Croninger,
supra. It is true that the Carmack Amendment requires a
receipt or bill of lading to be issued concerning shipments
of property in interstate commerce and that in the cases
construing that amendment a bill of lading was issued, and
according to thq circumstances of the case the bill of
lading and its effect are discussed in each of these, but the

BOSTON & MAINE RD. v. HOOKER.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

effect of filing the schedule is not lost sight of and the
doctrine of the previous cases as to the purpose of filing
and the necessity of adherence to such schedule is uniformly recognized.
The court below, after conceding that the subjectmatter of passenger's baggage in interstate travel is
within the control of Congress, and saying that there was
no specific regulation respecting it, said (p. 602):
"The precise position of the defendant is that as the
limitation of liability for baggage was filed and posted
as a part of its schedules for passenger tariff, the limitation thereby became and was an essential part of its rate,
from which under the interstate commerce law it could
not deviate, and by which the plaintiff was bound, regardless of her knowledge of or assent to it. If the premise is
sound, then the conclusion follows, for the public are held
inexorably to the rate published, regardless of knowledge,
assent or even misrepresentation. Gulf, Colorado & Santa
Fe Railway v. Hefley, 158 U. S. 98. Texas & Pacific Railway v. Mugg, 202 U. S. 242. Melody v. Great Northern
Railway, 25 So. Dak. 606."
It follows therefore, from the previous decisions in this
court, that if it be found that the limitation of liability
for baggage is required to be filed in the carrier's tariffs, the
plaintiff was bound by such limitation. Having the notice
which follows from the filed and published regulations, as
required by the statute and the order of the Interstate
Commerce Commission, she might have declared the value
of her luggage, paid the excess tariff rate and thus secured
the liability of the carrier to the full amount of the value
of her baggage, or she might, for the purpose of transportation, have valued it at, $100 and received free transportation and liability to that extent only, or, as she did,
she might have made no valuation of her baggage, in
which event the rate. and the corresponding liability
would have automatically attached. As to the finding
VOL. CCXXXIII-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

that the plaintiff's baggage was apparently worth more
than $100, as above set forth, it appears that the contents
of the two trunks and suit case were not disclosed or
known to the carrier, and the finding in this respect,
necessarily based on the appearance of the baggage, cannot be said to show a procurement of transportation in
violation of the requirements of the filed schedules at a
rate disproportionate to its known value.
Let us now turn to the Interstate Commerce Act and
see whether the matter of the limitation of baggage
liability is covered by that act. Section 6 provides (as
amended by § 2 of the Hepburn Act, June 29, 1906,
c. 3591, 34 Stat. 584, 586):
"That every common carrier subject to the provisions
of this Act shall file with the Commission created by this
Act and print and keep open to public inspection schedules
showing all the rates, fares, and charges for transportation
between different points on its own route and between
points on its own route and points on the route of any
other carrier by railroad, by pipe line, or by water when a
through route and joint rate have been established. If
no joint rate over the through route has been established,
the several carriers in such through route shall file, print,
and keep open to public inspection as aforesaid, the
separately established rates, fares and charges applied to
the through transportation. The schedules printed as
aforesaid by any such common carTier shall plainly state
the places between which property and passengers will
be carried, and shall contain the classification of freight
in force, and shall also state separately all terminal charges,
storage charges, icing charges, and all other charges which
the Commission may require, all privileges or facilities
granted or allowed and any rules or regulations which in
-any wise change, affect, or determine any part or the aggregate of such aforesaid rates, fares, and charges, or the
value of the service rendered to the passenger, shipper, or

BOSTON & MAINE RD. v. HOOKER.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

consignee. Such schedules shall be plainly _printed in
large type, and copies for the use of the public shall be
kept posted in two public and conspicuous places in every
depot, station, or office of such carrier where passengers
or freight, respectively, are received for transportation,
in such form that they shall be accessible to the public
and can be conveniently inspected. The provisions of
this section shall apply to all traffic, transportation, and
facilities defined in this Act.
"No carrier, unless otherwise provided by this Act,
shall engage or participate in the transportation of passengers or property, as defined in this Act, unless the rates,
fares, and charges upon which the same are transported
by said carrier have been filed and published in accordance
with the provisions of this Act; nor shall any carrier charge
or demand or collect or receive a greater or less or different
compensation for such transportation of passengers or
property, or for any service in connection therewith, between the points named in such tariffs than the rates,
fares, and charges which are specified in the tariff filed
and in effect at the time; nor shall any carrier-refund or
remit in any manner or by any device any portion of the
rates, fares, and charges so specified, nor extend to any
shipper or person any privileges or facilities in the transportation of passengers or property, except such as are
specified in such tariffs.
"
It is to be observed that the schedules are required to
state, among other things, in naming certain charges,
"all other charges which the Commission may require,
all privileges or facilities granted or allowed and any rules
or regulations which in any wise change, affect, or determine any part br the aggregate of such aforesaid rates,
fares, -and charges, or the value of the service rendered
to the passenger, shipper, or consignee." The question
then is did the limitation as to liability for baggage based
.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

upon the requirement to declare its value when more than
$100 was to be recovered come within that provision.
It seems to' us that the ordinary signification of the
terms used in the act would cover such requirements as
are here made for the amount of recovery for baggage
lost by the carrier. It is a regulation which fixes and
determines the amount to be charged for the carriage in
view of the responsibility assumed, and it also affects
the value of the service rendered to the passenger. Such
requirements are spoken of, in decisions dealing with them,
as regulations; as, a common carrier "may prescribe
regulations to protect himself against imposition and
fraud, and fix a rate of charges proportionate to the
magnitude of the risks he may have to encounter." York
Co. v. Central R. R., 3 Wall. 107, 112. "It is undoubtedly
competent for carriers of passengers, by specific regulations, distinctly brought to the knowledge of the passenger,
which are reasonable in their character and not inconsistent with any statute or tleir duties to the public,
to protect themselves against liability, as insurers, for
baggage exceeding a fixed amount in value, except upon
additional compensation, proportioned to the risk. And
in order that such regulations may be practically effective
and the carrier advised of the full extent of its responsibility, and, consequently, of the degree of precaution
necessary upon its part, it may rightfully require, as a
condition precedent to any contract for the transportation
of baggage, information from the passenger as to its
value; and if the value thus disclosed exceeds that which
the passenger may reasonably demand to be transported
as baggage without extra compensation, the carrier, at
its option, can make such additional charge as the risk
fairly justifies." Railroad Co. v. Fraloff,.100 U. S. 24, 27.
Mr. Justice Brewer, sitting in the Circuit Court, in
Ames v. Union Pac. Ry. Co., 64 Fed. Rep. 165, 178, thus
defined the term regulation:" Within the term 'regulation'

BOSTON & MAINE RD. v. HOOKER&
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

are embraced two ideas: One is the mere control of the
operation of the roads, prescribing the rules for the management thereof,-matters which affect the convenience
of the public in their use. Regulation, in this sense; may
be considered as purely public in its character, and in no
manner trespassing upon the rights of the owners of railroads. But within the scope of the word 'regulation,' as
commonly used, is embraced the idea of fixing the compensation which the owners of railroad property shall
receive for the use thereof; and when regulation, in this
sense, is attempted, it necessarily affects the property
interests of the railroad owners; and it is 'regulation' in
this sense of the term."
Turning to the act itself we think the conelusion
that this limitation is a regulation required to be filed
by the act is strengthened by section 22 1 which provides: ". . . But before any common carrier, subject to the provisions of this act, shall issue any such joint
interchangeable mileage tickets with special privileges, as
aforesaid, it shall file with the Interstate Commerce
Commission copies of the joint tariffs of rates, fares, or
charges on which such joint interchangeable mileage
tickets are to be based, together with specifications of the
amount of free baggage permitted to be carried under such
tickets, in the same manner as common carriersare required
to do with regard to other joint rates by section six of this act."
This section would indicate that Congress thought that
§ 6 of the act had to do with specifications of the amount
of baggage which would be carried free and that such
regulations should be filed under the requirement of
§ 6 to which it referred.
This conclusion is further strengthened by the action of
the.nterstate Commerce Commission, in requiring by its
Tariff Circular No. 15-A, entitled "Regulations Governing
the Construction and Filing of Freight Tariffs and ClassiAs amended by the Act of Feb. 8, 1895, c. 61, 28 Stat. 643.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

fication and Passenger Fare Schedules," effective April 15,
1908, and in force at the time of the loss here in question,
that:
" 34. Tariffs shall contain, in the order named
"(g) Rules and regulations which govern the tariff, the
title of each rule or regulation to be shown in bold type.
Under this head all of the rules, regulations, or conditions
which in any way affect the fares named in the tariff shall
be entered. . . . These rules shall include
the general baggage regulations, and also schedule of
excess-baggage rates, unless such excess-baggage rates
are shown in tariff in connection with the fares."
This requirement is a practical interpretation of the
law by the administrative body having its enforcement
in charge, and Is entitled to weight in construing the
act.
The:act of June 18, 1910 (c. 309, 36 Stat. 539, 546),
defining, in .§1, the duties of carriers to make just and
reasonable regulations affecting, among other things, the
carrying of personal, sample and excess baggage, may be
noted in passing. This statute was before the Commission
in a case involving such regulations. Regulations Restricting the Dimensions of Baggage, 26 I. C. C. 292. Concerning it the Commission, by Clark, Chairman, said
(p. 293):
"Prior to June 18, 1910, the act to regulate commerce
contained no specific provision relating to the interstate
transportation of baggage, except in connection with the
issuance of joint interchangeable mileage tickets. The
Commission had, however' under authority of section 6,
required carriers to publish and file their general baggage
regulations and their schedules of excess-baggage rates.
Section 1 was amended on the date named, the amendment, in so far as it is material, reading as follows:
"It is hereby made the duty of all common carriers
subject, to the provisions of this act to establish, observe,

BOSTON & MAINE RD. v. HOOKER.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and enforce . . . just and reasonable regulations and
practices affecting classifications, . . . the manner
and method of presenting, marking, packing, and delivering property for transportation, the facilities for transportation, . . . the ca:rrying of personal, sample, and
excess baggage."'
And it is to be observed that the Commission considers
its requirement with reference to including baggage
regulations in the tariff schedules, quoted above, as
adequate, for the same provisions appear in its current
circular.
We are therefore of the opinion that the requirement
published concerning the amount of the liability of the
defendant based upon additional payment where baggage
was declared, to exceed $100 in value was determinative
of the rate to be charged and did affect the service to.
be rendered to the passenger, as it fixed the price to be
paid for the service rendered in the particular case, and
was, therefore, a regulation within the meaning of the
statute.
By requiring the baggage regulations, including the
excess valuation rate, to be filed and become part of the
tariff schedules, the rule of the common law that the
carrier becomes an insurer of the safety of baggage against
accidents not the act of God or the public enemy or the
fault of the passenger (the rule established in this country,
3 Hutchinson on Carriers, § 1241) was not changed. The
effect of such filing is to permit the carrier by such regulations to obtain commensurate compensation for the
responsibility assumed for the safety of the passenger's
baggage, and to require the passenger whose knowledge
of the character and value of his baggage is peculiarly his
own to declare its value and pay for the excess amount.
There is no question of the reasonableness or propriety of
making such regulations, which would be binding upon
the passenger if brought to his knowledge in such wise as

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

to make an agreement or what is tantamount thereto.
This much is conceded "by the learned counsel for the
plaintiff in error. The liability of a carrier under the
Interstate Commerce Act was said, in the Croninger
Case (226 U. S. p. 511), to be (aside from the responsibility
for the default of a connecting carrier) "not beyond the liability imposed by the common law as that body of law applicable to carriers has been interpreted by this court as well
as many courts of the States." And in that case (p. 509) it
was laid down as the established rule of common law "as
declared by this court in many cases that such a carrier
may by a fair, open, just and reasonable agreement limit
the amount recoverable by a shipper in case of loss or
damage to an agreed value made for the purpose of obtaining the lower of two or more rates of charges proportioned
to the amount of the risk." And-see the previous cases in
this court there cited. But the effect of the regulations,
filed as required, giving notice of rates based upon value
when the baggage to be transported was of a higher value
than $100, and the delivery and acceptance of the baggage
without declaration of value or notice to the carrier of
such higher value, charges the carrier with liability to the
extent of $100 only.
The language of the regulation filed, reads: Baggage
liability is limited to personal baggage not to exceed $100
in value, etc., unless a greater value is declared, etc. We
have said that this limitation does not relieve from the
insurer's liability when the loss occurs otherwise than by
negligence, and we think applies equally when negligence
of the carrier is the cause of loss, as is found in this case.
The effect of the filing gives the regulation as to baggage
the force of a contract determining "Baggage liability."
In Hartv. Pennsylvania R. R., 112 U. S. 331, 341, followed
in the later cases in this court, it was held that a recovery
may not be had above the amount stipulated though the
loss results from the carrier's negligence. "The carrier

BOSTON & MAINE RD. v. HOOKER.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

must respond for negligence up to that value." The
discussion and conclusion reached in the Croninger and
Carl Cases, supra, leave nothing to be said on this point.
This rule is recognized in New York, Tewes v. North
German Lloyd S. S. Co., 186 N. Y. 151; Gardinerv. N. Y.
Central & H. R. R. R., 201 N. Y. 387.
If the charges filed were unreasonable, the only attack
that could be made upon such regulation would be by
proceedings contesting their reasonableness before the
Interstate Commerce Commission. While they were in
force they were equally binding upon the railroad company and all passengers whose baggage was transported by
carriers in interstate conmerce. This being the fact,
we think the limitation of liability to $100 fixed the
amount which the plaintiff could recover in this case, and
there was error in affirming the recovery for the full value
of the baggage, in the absence of a declaration of such
*value and payment of the additional amount required to
secure liability in the greater sum.
We do not think the requirement of the Carmack
Amendment, that a railway company receiving property
for transportation in interstate commerce shall issue a
receipt or bill of lading therefor, required other receipts
than baggage checks, which it is shown were issued when
the baggage was received in this case. When the Anendment was passed Congress well knew that baggage was not
carried. upon bills of lading, and that carriers had been
accustomed to issue checks upon receipt of baggage. We
do not think it was intended to require a departure from
this practice when the matter was placed under regulation
by schedules filed and subject to change for unreasonableness upon application to the Commission. 'Such checks
are receipts, and there is no special requirement in the
statute as to their form. It is doubtless in the power of the
Interstate Commerce Commission to make requirements
as to the checks or receipts to be given for baggage if that

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
ITNzY,

J., dissenting.

233 U. S.

subject needs regulation. Act of June 18, 1910, §§ 1 and
15, c. 309, 36 Stat. 539.
Reversed and remanded to the Superior Court oj Massachusetts for further proceedings not inconsistent with
this opinion.
MR.JUSTICE PITNEY,

dissenting.

I have been unable to find a previous instance where
any court, in this country at least, in an action by shipper
or passenger against common carrier for loss of freight or
baggage occasioned by the negligence of the carrier or its
employ~s, has held the recovery to be limited to an arbitrary sum unrelated to the value of the goods lost, and
this without any previous valuation or agreement assented
to by the shipper or passenger, without any representation
of value made by him, and without even notice brought
home to him of any rule or regulation upon which the
limitation of liability is based. The effect given'by the
present decision to a "regulation". prescribed by the
carrier, that while formally promulgated was in fact
unknown to the passenger, seems to me an entire departure from the principles governing the duties and responsibilities of common carriers as heretofore recognized by
this court and by the courts of the States generally, as
laid ddwn in the text-books and cyclopedias of law, and as
*reiterated and applied by this court in a recent series of
notable decisions.
We are referred to the "Act to Regulate Commerce" of
February 4, 1887, c. 104, 24 Stat. 379, as amended June 29,
1906 by the Hepburn Act, c. 3591, 34 Stat.-584, with citation of the provision in § 6 of the act respecting the filing and publication of schedules showing the rates, fares,
and charges for transportation, etc., and with particular
emphasis upon the so-called Carmack Amendment. I do
not find in either of these any phrase or expression that
manifests a legislative intent to lessen or limit in any way

BOSTON & MAINE RD. v. HOOKER.
233 U. S.

PTNEY, J., dissenting.

the carrier's liability as quasi-insurer, much less its responsibility for losses due to its own negligence or that of
its employ~s. Neither enactment in terms imposes any
duty or burden upon the shipper or passenger affecting the
question at issue; and the Carmack Amendment, at least,
contains a clear expression of the legislative purpose to
enforce the carrier's responsibility for losses of property
caused by it, without regard to any rule or regulation
exempting it.
The result reached in the present case-which seems
so contrary to all previous adjudications&and to the
apparent meaning of the acts of Congress-is based (if I
understand the opinion), not upon any legislation directly
addressed to the particular subject, but upon inferences
deduced by indirect reasoning from the assumed policy
of the law. The reasoning, as I am constrained to believe,
disregards familiar principles established by repeated
decisions of this court, in the light of which Congress undoubtedly legislated; and it has the effect of placing honest
but unskilled shippers and passengers at a serious disadvantage in dealing with common carriers, enabling the
latter, by "regulations" never called to the attention of
the former, to obtain practical immunity from responsibility for losses due to their own negligence.
The consequences are so serious that I have been unable
to convince myself that I should acquiesce in silence.
The salient facts are mentioned in the opinion, but some
are not noticed, and it is proper to state that plaintiff
traveled, in September, 1908, as an interstate passenger
upon defendant's train from Boston, Massachusetts, to
Sunapee Lake, New Hampshire, having in fact paid two
first-class fares, one ticket being used for the checking of
her baggage, the other for her personal transportation.
Defendant's schedules, filed. with the Interstate Commerce Commission and published in the mode prescribed
by the act of Congress, showed the rates of fares between

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
PITNEY,

J., dissenting.

233 U. S.

these places, and contained a provision stating that "One
hundred and fifty pounds of personal baggage, not exceeding one hundred dollars in value will be checked free
for each passenger on presentation of a full ticket.
For excess weight, charge will be made as follows [here
was inserted a table of charges for excess weights, and at
the foot of it the following]: For excess value, the rate will
be one-half of the current excess baggage rate per one
hundred pounds for each one hundred dollars, or fraction
thereof, of increased value declared. The minimum
charge for excess value will be 15 cents. Baggage liability is'limited to personal baggage not to exceed one hundred dollars in value for a passenger presenting a full
ticket . . . unless a greater value is declared and
stipulated by the owner and excess charges thereon paid
at time of checking the baggage." Plaintiff's baggage consisted of three pieces, of the value of $1,904.50, and the
charge on this valuation for transportation from Boston
to Sunapee Lake, according to the schedules, would have
Leen 2'5c for each excess $100 or fraction thereof, or $4.75
in all. Plaintiff did not declare and stipulate at the time
the baggage was checked that it exceeded $100 in value,
and did not pay any charge for valuation in excess of that
amount. Defendant's agents did not request any such
declaration, and made no inquiry respecting value; but
it is found as a fact that from the outward appearance of
the baggage when tendered to defendant for transportation any reasonable person would have inferred that its
value largely exceeded $100. There was nothing to show
that any more expensive or different mode of transportation was adopted for baggage whose value was declared
to exceed $100 than for other baggage. Nor was there
anything to show that plaintiff, or her agent who attended
to the checking of the baggage for her, had notice of
defendant's regulations for limiting its liability. In the
Boston passenger station notices were posted that "Freight

BOSTON & MAINE RD. v. HOOKER.
233 V. S.

PITNEY,

J., dissenting.

and passenger tariffs naming rates on interstate traffic
are on file with the agent, and will be furnished for inspection upon application;" and in the baggage room was
a notice that "One hundred and fifty pounds of personal
baggage not exceeding one hundred dollars in value will
be checked free for each passenger on presentation of a full
ticket." There was nothing in either of these notices to
call attention to any charge for excess value, nor any
statement in terms that the baggage liability was limited
to one hundred dollars. Nor was it shown that the notices themselves were ever seen by plaintiff or her agent.
It appears, however, that because the weight of her baggage exceeded by forty-five pounds the weight allowable
under the company's rules, a payment of twenty-three
cents was made for checking the baggage. Ordinary numbered baggage checks appear to have been delivered to
plaintiff's agent, but nothing; else in the form of a receipt
or bill of lading. The baggage was not lost in transit, but
was destroyed by fire while in defendant's charge, more
than twenty-six hours after its arrival at defendant's
Sunapee Lake Station. It was distinctly found as a fact
than the loss was due to defendant's negligence.
In the trial court, plaintiff relied wholly upon a count
of her declaration which, after reciting the status 6f defendant as a common carrier and the contract of carriage
in interstate commerce, averred as ground of recovery the
neglect and refusal of defendant to deliver the baggage
to plaintiff at Sunapee Lake upon demand made, accompanied with a tender of the checks. But the course of
the trial shows that negligence was a principal issue, if
not the only vital issue; both parties requested findings
upon the question, and findings were made in response to
their respective requests; and upon review the state
Supreme Court treated negligence as the asserted ground
of liability, saying (209 Massachusetts, 599): "The plaintiff, an interstate passenger of the defendant, claims

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
PrrNEY, J., dissenting.

233 U. S.

damages in excess of $2,000 for.loss of her baggage occurring through the negligence of the defendant."
Although, according to the well known Massachusetts
doctrine, the railroad company's responsibility strictly as
carrier would seem to have terminated with the completion of the transit and the safe deposit of the baggage in
the railroad station, its responsibility thereafter being
that of warehouseman, (Thomas v. Boston & Providence
Railroad Corp., 10 Met. 472, 477; Norway Plains Co. v.
Boston & Maine Railroad, 1 Gray, 263, 273; Barron v.
Eldredge, 100 Massachusetts, 455, 459; Lane v. Boston &
Albany Railroad Co., 112 Massachusetts, 455, 462; Stowe
v. New York &c. Railroad Co., 113 Massachusetts, 521,
523; Rice v. Hart, 118 Massachusetts, 201, 207); the distinction appears to have been ignored by the Massachusetts court i4 discussing the case, perhaps because it does
not affecti the responsibility for a loss of goods attributable
to negligence; there being in this respect no difference between a carrier and a warehouseman. But it might affect
the question whether defendant's responsibility is to be
determined in the light of the Interstate Commerce Act;
and I concede that it is.
It is of course true that in Adams Express Co. v. Croninoer, 226 U. S,491, this court held that by the Carmack
Amendment (34 Stat. 595, set forth in the margin,1) the
"That any common carrier, railroad, or transportation company
receiving property for transportation from a point in one State to a
point in another State shall issue a receipt or bill of lading therefor and
shall be liable to the lawful holder thereof for any loss, damage, or injury to such property caused by it or by any common carrier, railroad,
or transportation company to which such property may be delivered
or over whose line or lines such property may pass, and no contract,
receipt, rule, or regulation shall exempt such common carrier, railroad,
or transportation company from the liability hereby imposed: Provided, that nothing in this section shall deprive' any holder of such receipt or bill of lading of any remedy or right of action which he has
under existing law."

BOSTON & MAINE RD. v. HOOKER.
233 U. S.

PITN Y,

J., dissenting.

subject-matter of the liability of railroads under bills of
lading issued for interstate freight is placed under .Federal regulation so as to supersede the local law and policy
of the several States, whether .evidenced by judicial
decision, by statute, or by state constitution.
And I concede that the Supreme Court of Massachusetts erred if it intended to hold that the carrier's responsibility for interstate passengers' baggage is not likewise
within the sweep of the Amendment.
The concrete question, therefore, is whether under the
Interstate Commerce Act and the Carmack Amendment
this defendant's liability to plaintiff, upon the facts stated,
is properly to be limited to one hundred dollars.
My views, in brief, are:
(a) That the baggage regulation limiting the liability
to the amount named (if construed as operative without
the knowledge or consent of the passenger, and in the
absence of an actual valuation of the goods, assented to by
the passenger), is not authorized or sanctioned by the
Commerce Act, and is invalid because contrary to the
established policy of the law governing the common
carrier in the performance of its public duties, and because
contrary to the letter and spirit of the Carmack Amendment.
(b) That the regulation had not received the approval
of the Interstate Commerce Commission, but on the contrary was covered by an adverse administrative ruling
made by the commission a few months before the occurrences that gave rise to this action.
(c) That, being invalid per se, the regulation derived no
legal force or vitality from being included in the filed and
published schedules.
(d) That the filing of the regulation cannot give it the
force of a contract, because (1) plaintiff was ignorant of
the regulation in fact, (2) to make it a part of her contract
without her knowledge would render it a contract limiting

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
PrINEY, J., dissenting.

233 U. S.

the carrier's liability for negligence to an arbitrary sum,
without any agreement or representation of value on the
part of plaintiff, and therefore void as being contrary to
established public policy; and (3) the law will not raise by
implication an agreement that is contrary to the policy
of the law.
(e) That plaintiff is not estopped to recover the full
value of her goods, for she was entirely free from blame
in the matter, made no representation as to value and
sought no special advantage.
(f) That even were the contract of carriage as actually
made, invalid, this would not-render the bailment unlawful, and (at least) the carrier would be responsible for the
loss of the goods through negligence, irrespective of the
contract.
(g) That by the terms of the Carmack
Amendment the
railroad company in this case is precluded from setting
up a limitation of liability, (1) because the limitation, as
asserted against a passenger who was ignorant of the regulation and had made no contract under it, amounts to a
rule or regulation for exempting the carrier from liability
for a loss of property caused by the carrier's negligence,
contrary to the terms of the Amendment; and (2) because
the carrier waived any benefit of the regulation (if that
were valid) by failing'to deliver to plaintiff a receipt or
bill of lading embodying the terms of the contract as
required by the same enactment. ,
The importance of the subject seems to warrant a
somewhat extended discussion.
(1.) Reference is made to § 6 of the Commerce Act as
amended by the Hepburn Act; the portioA relied upon
being that which requires the filed and published schedules
to state "any rules or regulations which in any wise
change, affect, or determine any part or the aggregate of
such aforesaid rates, fares, and charges, or the value of
the service rendered to the passenger, shipper, or con-

BOSTON & MAINE RD. v. HOOKER.
233 U. S.

PITNEY, J., dissenting.

signee." In this respect the act has remained substantially unchanged since the amendment of March 2, 1889,
c. 382, 25 Stat. 855, quoted in the margin.'
It is important to observe that § 6, either before or since
the Hepburn act, does not prescribe what the rules and
regulations shall be. Neither this section nor any other
section of the act confers upon the carrier any authority
over the subject. It is implied that there may be, indeed
must be, rules and regulations for carrying on the business
of a common carrier, in order to secure system, efficiency
and a just performance of its public duties; and § 6,
recognizing this, prescribes-and, as I think, only prescribes-that whatever rules and regulations may be duly
established which "in any wise change, affect, or determine the rates, fares, and. charges, or the value of the
"SEC. 6 (as amended by § 1 of the act of March 2, 1889, c. 382, 25
Stat. 855). That every common -carrier subject to the provisions of this
act shall print and keep open to public inspection schedules showing

the rates and fares and charges fCT the transportationof passengers and

property which any such common carrier has established and which
are in force at the time upon its route. The schedules printed as aforesaid by any such common carrier shall plainly state the places upon its
railroad between which property and passengers will be carried, and
shall contain the classification of freight in force, and shall also state
separately the terminal charges and any rules or regulations which in
any wise change, affect, or determine any part or the aggregate of such
aforesaid rates and fares and charges. Such schedules shall be plainly

printed in large type, and copies for the use of the public shall be posted
in two public and conspicuous places, in every depot, station, or office
of such carrier where passengers or freight, respectively, are received
for transportation, in such form that they shall be accessible to the
public and can be conveniently inspected. .
. And when any such
common carrier shall have established and published its rates, fares,
and charges in compliance with the provisions of this section, it shall
be unlawful for such common car.ier to charge, demand, collect, or receive from any person or persons a greater or less compensation for the
transportation of passengers or property, or for any services in connection therewith, than is specified in such published schedule of rates,
fares, and charges as may at the time be in force."
VOL. CCXXXIII-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
PITNEY,'J., dissenting.

233 U. S.

service rendered," shall be included in the filed and published schedules. But does it follow from this that the
carrier may make any rules and regulations it chooses?
Is the carrier to be a law unto itself? And, if not, what are
the limitations upon its power? The answer, I think, is
plain. The authority to establish rules and regulations,
unless it arise from express legislative authority, is derived
by implication from the necessities of the case, in view of
the nature of the business, and is, plainly subject to the
limitation that the rules and regulations shall not be such
as to contravene the letter or the policy of the law, nor
such as to evade responsibility for the due performance of
the public duties of the carrier.
This is a principle universally recognized from an early
day by the courts of this country, and it lies at the foundation of the rule everywhere prevalent (differing, in this
regard, from the rule that prevailed in England for a time
prior to the Railway & Canal Traffic Act, 1854, 17 and 18
Vict., c. 31, §7), that the carrier cannot limit his liability
by any general regulation or published notice.
It is for this reason, primarily, that the regulation
here in question,-" Baggage liability is limited to personal baggage not to exceed one hundred dollars in
value

.

.

. unless a greater value is declared," etc.,

if treated as intended to be effective without the knowledge or assent of the passenger, seems to me to be a regulation entirely beyond the power of the carrier to establish.
The state reports are full of cases recognizing the principle,
and applying and enforcing it with respect to the particular subject-matter now under consideration. It is not
necessary, however, to go outside of our own reports, for
this court from the beginning until. now has constantly
recognized and steadfastly enforced this limitation of the
authority of the common carrier with respect to regulations of the same essential character as the one now in
question.

BOSTON & MAINE RD. v. HOOKER.
233 U. S.

PiTNsy, J., dissenting.

Thus, in New Jersey Steam Navigation Co. v. Merchants
Bank, 6 How. 344, the court held that the carrier could
not by published notices seeking to limit its responsibility
exonerate itself from the duties which the law annexed to
its employment. And, dealing with an express stipulation,
the court, by Mr. Justice Nelson (p. 382) said: "But admitting the right thus to restrict his obligation, it by no
means follows that he can do so by any act of his own.
He is in the exercise of a sort of public office, and has public
duties to perform, from which he should not be permitted to
exonerate himself without the assent of the parties concerned.
And this is not to be implied or inferred from a general
notice to the public, limiting his obligation, which may or
may not be assented to. He is bound to receive and carry
all the goods offered for transportation, subject to all the
responsibilities incident to his employment, and is liable
to an action in case of refusal. And we agree with the
court in the case of Hollister v. Nowlen [19 Wend. 234, 247],
that, if any implication is to be indulged from the delivery
of the goods under the general notice, it is as strong that
the owner intended to insist upon his rights, and the duties
of the carrier, as it is that he assented to their qualification.
The burden of proof lies on the carrier, and nothing short
of an express stipulation by parol or in writing should be
permitted to discharge him from duties which the law has
annexed to his employment."
In York Co. v. Central Railroad, 3 Wall. 107, 112, the
curt, speaking by Mr. Justice Field, said: "The law prescribes the duties and responsibilities of the common
carrier. He exercises, in one sense, a public employment, and has duties to the public to perform. Though he
may . . . prescribe regulations to protect himself
against imposition and fraud, and fix a rate of charges
proportionate to the magnitude of the risks he may have
to encounter, he can make no discrimination between
persons, or vary his charges for their condition or charac-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
PITNEY,

J., dissenting.

233 U. S.

ter. He is bound to accept all goods offered within the
course of his employment, and is liable to an action in case
of refusal. He is chargeable for all losses except such as
may be occasioned by the act of God or the public enemy.
He insures against all accidents which result from human
agency, although occurring without any fault or neglect
on his part; and he cannot, by any mere act of his own avoid
the responsibility which the law thus imposes. He cannot
screen himself from liability by any general or special notice,
.nor can he coerce the owner to yield assent to a limitation of
responsibility by making exorbitant charges when such assent

is refused. The owner of the goods may rely upon this
responsibility imposed by the common law, which can
only be restricted and qualified when he expressly stipulates
for the restrictionand qualification. But when such stipula-

tion is made, and it does not cover losses from negligence
or misconduct, we can perceive no just reason for refusing
its recognition and enforcement."
In RailroadCo. v. Manufacturing Co., 16 Wall. 318, 329,

the court, after repeating the language I have quoted from
the opinion in 6 How., proceeded to say: "These considerations against the relaxation of the common law
responsibility by public advertisements, apply with equal
force to notices having the same object, attached to receipts

given by carriers on taking the property of those who
employ them into their possession for transportation.
Both are attempts to obtain, by indirection, exemption
from burdens imposed in the interests of trade upon this
particular business, It is not only. against the policy of the
law, but a serious injury to commerce to allow the carrierto
say that the shipper of merchandise assents to the terms proposed in a notice, whether it be general to the public or special
to a particularperson, merely because he does not expressly

dissent from them. If the parties were on an equality in
their dealings with each other there might be some show
of reason for assuming acquiescence from silence, but in

BOSTON & MAINE RD. v. HOOKER.
233 U. S.

PITNEY,

J., dissenting.

the nature of the case this equality does not exist, and,
therefore, every intendmEcnt should be made in favor of

the shipper when he takes a receipt for his property, with
restrictive conditions annexed, and says nothing, that he
intends to rely upon the law for the security of his rights.
It can readily be seen, if the carriercan reduce his. liability in
the way proposed, he can transact business on any terms he
chooses to prescribe.

.

.

.

The law, in conceding to

carriers the ability to obtain any reasonable qualification of
their responsibilityby express contract, has gone asfar in this
directionas public policy will allow."
So in Railroad Co. v. Fraoff, 100 U. S. 24, 27, the court
said: "It is undoubtedly competent for carriers of passengers, by specific regulations, distinctly brought to the knowledge of the passenger, which are reasonable in their character
and not inconsistent with any statute or their duties to the
public, to protect themselve:s against liability, as insurers,
for baggage exceeding a fited amount in value, except
upon additional compensation, proportioned to the risk.
And in order that such regulations may be practically
effective, and the carrier advised of the full extent of its
responsibility, and, consequently, of the degree of precaution necessary upon its part, it may rightfully require, as
a condition precedent to any contract for the transportation
of baggage, informationfrom the passenger as to its value; and
if the value thus disclosed exceeds that which the passenger
may reasonably demand to be transported as baggage
without extra compensation, the carrier, at its option, can
make. such additional charge as the risk fairly justifies."
(2.) And if it is against the policy of the law for a common carrier to limit its "common law liability "-that of
quasi-insurer of goods-by general regulation or published
notice not assented to by the passenger or shipper, this is
more emphatically true with respect to its responsibility
for losses due to the negligence of the carrier or of its
servants; for, even by express contract, upon whatever

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
PITNEY,

J., dissenting.

233 U. S.

consideration, the carrier is not permitted to obtain
exemption from liability for negligence. New Jersey
Steam Navigation Co. v. Merchants Bank, 6 How. 344, 383;
York Co. v. Central Railroad, 3 Wall. 107, 113; Railroad
Co. v. Lockwood, 17 Wall. 357, 375, 384; Bank of Kentucky
v. Adams Express Co., 93 U. S. 174, 183.

The rule admits of but one exception, and that is
hedged with important qualifications. It is, that where a
contract of carriage is fairly made between shipper and
carrier agreeing upon a valuation of the property carried,
or based upon a valuation declared by the shipper and
relied on by the carrier, with a rate of freight based upon
a condition limiting the carrier's liability to the amount of
the agreed or declared valuation, and the valuation is in
good faith relied upon by the carrier and is not a mere
cover for an attempt by the carrier to escape libility for
negligence, the contract will be recognized as a proper
mode of securing a due proportion between the amount
for which the carrier is responsible and the freight he
receives, and the shipper will be estopped from claiming
more than the agreed or declared valuation, even in case
of a loss due to negligence. So it was laid down by this
court in Hart v. PennsylvaniaRailroad, 112 U. S. 331, 338,
and the grounds of decision were expressed in the opinion
of the court (by Mr. Justice Blatchford) in terms so clear
that besides being uniformly followed by this court until
now, they have been adopted generally by States that
adhere to the common law rules of liability. To quote
from the opinion (112 U. S. 340): "As a general rule, and
in theabsence of fraud or imposition, a common carrier is
answerable for the loss of a package of goods though he is
ignorant of its contents, and though its contents are ever
so valuable, if he does not make a special acceptance. This
is reasonable, because he can always guard himself by a
special acceptance, or by insisting on being informed of
the nature and value of the articles before receiving them.

BOSTON & MAINE RD. v. HOOKER.
233 U. S.

PITNEY, J., dissenting.

If -the shipper is guilty of fraud or imposition, by misrepresenting the nature or value of the articles, he destroys his
claim to indemnity, because he has attempted to deprive the
carrier of the right to be ompensated .in proportion to the
value of the articles and the consequent risk assumed, and
what he has done has tended to lessen the vigilance the carrier
would otherwise have bestowed [Citing cases]. This qualification of the liability of the carrier is reasonable, and is as
important as the rule which it qualifies. There is no
justice in allowing the shipper to be paid a large value for
an article which he has induced the carrier to take at a
low rate of freight on the assertion and agreement that
its value is a less sum that that claimed after a loss. It is
just to hold the shipper to his agreement, fairly made, as
to value, even where the loss or injury has occurred through
the negligence of the carrier. The effect of the agreement
is to cheapen the freight and secure the carriage, if there
is no loss; and the effect of disregarding the agreement,
after a loss, is to expose the carrier to a greater risk than
the parties intended he should assume. The agreement as
to value, in this case, stands as if the carrier had asked the
value of the horses, and had been told by the plaintiff the
sum inserted in the contract. The limitation as to value
has no tendency to exempt from liability for negligence.
It does not induce want of care. It exacts from the carrier the measure of care due to the value agreed on. The
carrier is bound to respond in that value*for negligence.
The compensation for carriage is. based on that value.
The shipperis estoppedfrom saying that the value is greater."
(3.) Such was the state of the common law of this
country, as universally recognized, when the Interstate
Commerce Act was passed, and I am unable to see in § 6,
or elsewhere in that act, any purpose to change it. During
the entire time that intervened between the passage of
the act and the passage of the Hepburn Act (including the
Carmack Amendment) in 1.906, the courts of the States

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
PITNEY,

J., dissenting.

233 U. S.

(except in the few States that adopted a policy less favorable to the carrier), and the Federal courts generally, administered the law as before, and without a suggestion, so
far as I have observed, that § 6, in requiring that all rules
and regulations having a bearing upon rates should be
filed and published, had in any way authorized common
carriers by any mere rule or regulation, although properly
promulgated, to limit the liability for damages by negligence in the absence of an express agreement as to value
assented to by the shipper, or some representation of value
made by him.
Indeed, this court, in the recent case of Pennsylvania
Railroad v. Hughes, 191 U. S. 477, 488, held that § 6, as
it stood after the amendment of March 2, 1889, and before the Hepburn Act, did not amount to a regulation of
the matter of a limitation of the carrier's liability to a
particular sum in consideration of lower freight rates for
transportation. To quote from the opinion (pp. 487, 488):
"It may be assumed that under the broad power conferred upon Congress over interstate commerce as defined
in repeated decisionis of this court, it would be lawful for
that body to make provision as to contracts for interstate
carriage, permitting the carrier to limit its liability to a
particular sum in consideration of lower freight rates for
transportation. But upon examination of the terms of the
law relied upon we fail to find any such provision therein.
The sections of the interstate commerce law relied upon
by the learned counsel for plaintiff in error, 24 Stat. 379,
382; 25 Stat. 855, provide for equal facilities to shippers for the interchange of traffic; for non-discrimination
in freight rates; for keeping schedules of rates open to public
inspection; for posting the same in public places, with certain
particulars as to charges, rules and regulations; .
giving remedies for the enforcement of the foregoing provisions, and providing penalties for their violation.
While under these provisions it may be said that Congress

BOSTON & MAINE RD. v. HOOKER.
233 U. S.

PITNEY,

J., dissenting.

has made it obligatory to provide proper facilities for interstate carriage of freight, and has prevented carriers
from obstructing continuous shipments on interstate lines,
we look in vain for any regulation of the matter here in controversy. There is no sanction of agreements of this character
limiting liability to stipulatedvaluations, and, until Congress
shall legislate upon it, is there any valid objection to the
State enforcing its own regulations upon the subject, although it may to this extent indirectly affect interstate
commerce contracts of carriage?"
This query was by the decision answered in the negative.
And as a result, notwithstanding § 6 of the Commerce
Act, the courts of Pennsylvania were left, free to disregard
the rule laid down in Hart v. Pennsylvania Railroad and
to follow their own declared doctrine denying the right
of a common carrier to limit its liability.for losses due to
negligence, even by a special agreement including a valuation assented to by the shipper. In this respect the
situation was changed by the Carmack Amendment to the
Hepburn Act, but not (so far as I can see) by any of the
changes made in § 6 by that act.
(4.) And I had supposed that since as before the Carmack Amendment, under the decisions of this court in
Adams Express Co. v. Croninger, 226 U. S. 491, and the
other cases that have followed it along the same line, the
general rules of law that disabled the common carrier
from establishing regulations for limiting its liability by
general notice not brought home to the shipper, and debarred the carrier from limiting its liability for losses due
to negligence except by a special, agreement including a
fair valuation assented to by the shipper, had remained
in full force and vigor, and indeed by the effect of the
Amendment had been made the exclusive rule of conduct for interstate carriers by rail. For the CroningerCase
not only held (negatively) that the Amendment superseded state laws upon the subject, but (affirmatively)

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
PITNEY, J., dissenting.

233 U. S.

that in matters not covered by its own express terms it
had the effect of establishing the common law rules respecting the carrier's liability, as laid down in previous
decisions of this court, and adopted generally by the
Federal courts. To quote from the opinion (p. 504):
"Prior to that amendment the rule of carrier's liability,
for an interstate slipment of property, as enforced in both
Federal and state courts, was either that of the general
common law as declared by this court and enforced in the
Federal courts throughout the United States, Hart v.
PennsylvaniaRailroad, 112 U. S. 331; or that determined
by the supposed public policy of a particular State, Pennsylvania Railroad v. Hughes, 191 U. S. 477; or that prescribed by statute law of a particular State, Chicago &c.
Railroad v. Solan, 169 U. S.133. Neither uniformity of
obligation nor of liability was possible until Congress
should deal with the subject.

.

.

."

(Page 505):

."That the legislation supersedes all the regulations and
policies of a particular State upon the same subject results
from its general character. It embraces the subject of
the liability of the carrier under a bill of lading which he
must issue and limits his power to exempt himself by rule,
regulation or contract. Almost every detail of the subject
is covered so completely that there can be no rational
doubt but that Congress intended to -take possession of
the subject and supersede all state regulation with reference to it.

.

.

."

(Page 507): "But it has been

argued that the non-exclusive character of this regulation
is manifested by the proviso of the section, and that state
legislation upon the same subject is not superseded, and
that the holder of any such bill of lading may resort to
any right of action against such a carrier conferred by
existing state law. This view is untenable. It would result in the nullification of the regulation of a national
subject and operate to maintain the confusion of the
diverse regulation which itwas the purpose-of Congress

BOSTON & MAINE RD. v. HOOKER.
233 U. S.

PrrN Y,J., dissenting.

to put an end to. . . .. To construe this proviso as preserving to the holder of any such bill of lading any right or
remedy which he may have had: under existing Federal law
at the time of his action, gives to it a more raionalinterpretation than one which would preserve rights and remedies
under existing state laws, for the latter view would causethe proviso to destroy the act itself."
It was upon this construct ion of the act that we proceeded to determine the validity of the provision in the
receipt or bill of lading there in question, which limited the
liability ofthe carrier to the agreed value of $50; and we
applied thereto the familiar rules to which I have already
referred. Thus (p. 509): "That a common carrier cannot
exempt himself from liability for his own negligence or
that of his servants is elementary. York Mfg. Co. v.
Illinois Central Railroad, 3 Wall. 107; Railroad Co. v.
Lockwood, 17 Wall. 357; Bank of Kentucky v. Adams Express Co., 93 U. S. 174; Hart v. PennsylvaniaRailroad, 112
U. S. 331, 338. The rule of the common law did not
limit his liability to loss and damage due to his own negligence, or that of his servants. That rule went beyond this
and he was liable for any loss or damage which resulted
from human agency, or any cause not the act of God or
the public enemy. But the rigor of this liability might be
modified through any fair, reasonableandjust agreement with
the shipper which did not include exemption against the
negligence of the carrieror his servants. The inherent right
to receive a compensation commensurate with the risk
involved the right to protect himself from fraud and imposition by reasonable rules and regulations, and the right.
to agree upon a rate proportionate to the value of the
property transported. It has therefore become an established rule of the common law as declared by this court in
many cases that such a carriermay by a fair, open, Just and
reasonableagreement limit the amount recoverable by a shipper in case of loss or damage to an agreed value made for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
PITNEY,

J., dissenting.

233 U. S.

purpose of obtaining the lower of two or more rates of charges
proportioned to the amount of the risk."
IThe other decisions that have followed the Croninger
Case (C., B. & Q. Railway v. Miller, 226 U. S. 513; Chicago,
St. P. &c. Ry. v. Latta, 226 U. S. 519; Wells, Fargo & Co. v.
Neiman-Marcus Co., 227 U. S. 469; Kansas City Southern
Ry. Co. v. Carl, 227 U. S. 639; Mo., Kans. & Tex. Ry.
Co. v. Harriman, 227 U. S. 657; Chicago, R. I. & Pac.
Ry. Co. v. Cramer, 232 U. S. 490; Great Northern Railway v. O'Connor, 232 U. S. 508), have simply applied' the
doctrine therein laid down, under varying circumstances.
In each of these cases there was a special contract, held
by the court to have been fairly made, and to amount to
a valuation by the shipper of the goods in question for the
purposes of the shipment. In short, the court in each
instance applied the rule of liability laid down in Hart v.
Pennsylvania Railroad, supra.
(5.) Because of this firmly established policy of the law
respecting the carrier's responsibility for the consequences
of his negligence, I should have construed the" regulation"
in question, limiting the baggage liability to $100, in
subordination to that policy. According to the canon
uniformly applied in construing statutes, that of giving
them no meaning beyond that which the legislature may
constitutionally enact, I should have construed the baggage regulation as a formula for standardizing the contracts proposed to be made by the carrier with the assent
of passengers; not that the formula of itself constituted a
substitute for a contract, or was intended to become binding upon the passenger until directly brought to his notice
and in some way consciously assented to by him.
But my brethren construe it as binding in the absence
of any knowledge or assent on the part of the passenger.
So considered, I deem it void as being a regulation that
was beyond the power of the common carrier to adopt.
And if I am right about this, the fact that it was included

BOSTON & MAINE RD. v. HOOKER.
233 U.'S.

PITNEY, J., dissenting.

in the filed and published schedules does not in the least
add to its efficacy.
It is not a question of mere unreasonableness. A carrier
may resort to practices that are so clearly unwarranted
by law as to require no preliminary application to the
Commission, and that-not even the sanction of the Commission could validate. I think the attempt to enforce,
ex parte, such a limitation of liability is in that category.
(6). But, in fact, the Commission had distinctly ruled
against the validity of the regulation in question, construed
-as the court now construes it; and had done this prior to
the time this action arose.
I find nothing savoring of approval in Paragraph 34(g)
of Tariff Circular No. 15A, effective April 15, 1908. The
reference to "Excess-baggage rates" is to charges for
excess weight, as I think sufficiently appears from 26
I. C. C. 292. But, if intended to apply to excess value,
it does not suggest that a limitation of liability for losses
attributable to negligence, effective without the knowledge or consent of the passenger, is to be made a part of
such regulations.
And in Matter of Released Rates, 13 I. C. C. 550, decided
May 14, 1908, the Commission, after full hearing and
consideration, made an administrative interpretation of
the Carmack Amendment, holding distinctly that it did
not abrogate the law of the Lockwood Case, 17 Wall. 357,
and the Hart Case, 112 U. S. 331. Among other rules
laid down (Mr. Commissioner Lane writing), were these
(p. 553): "(b) When the shipper has placed upon his goods
a specific value, the carrier accepting the same in good faith
as their real value, the rate of freight being fixed in accordance therewith, the shipper cannot recover an amount
in excess of the value he has disclosed, even when loss is
caused by the carrier's negligence," [citing the Hart Case,
and quoting in italics from the opinion to the effect that
under the circumstances disclosed "the shipper is estopped

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
PITNEY, Z.,

dissenting.

233 U. S.

from saying that the value is greater"]. And again (p. 554):
"The same principle is applicable when the shipper has in
some other way concealed the nature or the value of his
goods in order to secure a lower rate of freight.
It does not appear that this principle is in any respect in
derogation of the provisions of § 20 [meaning the Carmack Amendment]. The carrier is made liable 'for any
loss, damage, or injury,' and 'no contract, receipt, rule,
or regulation shall exempt such common carrier, railroad
or transportation company from the liability hereby imposed.' But it is of the highest importance to note that.
this limitation is not secured by contract or notice-the
contract has no validity per se. It is only right that a
carrier who has acted in good faith should be protected
against the frauds and misrepresentations of the shipper,
and the law accomplishes this through the operation of
the principle of estoppel. The shipper is estopped from
recovering an amount in excess of the declared value,
and the rule is in perfect harmony with the. law as it
stands to-day. 6 Cyc. of Law & Proc., title "Carriers,"
p. 401, note 5. (c) If the specified amount does not purport
to be an agreed valuation, but represents an attempt on 'the
part of the carrier to limit the amount of recovery to a fixed
sum, irrespective of the actual value, the stipulation is void
as against loss due to the carrier'snegligence or other misconduct. Much confusion has arisen from failure to distinguish between this situation and the situation comprehended in Hart v. Pennsylvania Railroad Co., supra.
That decision was expressly predicated upon the principle
of estoppel; the shipper had misrepresented the value of
his property, and had thereby secured the benefit of a
lower rate than he was properly entitled to by virtue
of the real value. He was estopped by his fraudulent
conduct from recovering an amount in excess of the value
he had declared. In the case we are now considering, the
requisites of estoppel are wanting. An estoppel cannot

BOSTON & MAINE RD. v. HOOKER.
233 U. S.

PITNEY,

J., dissenting.

arise unless the party invoking it has been the victim of
misrepresentation, and has himself acted in good faith.
Can it possibly be argued that when a carrier has arbitrarily placed in its bill of lading a stipulation limiting the
amount of its liability, regardless of the actual value of
the property, it may clain the benefit of an estoppel?
Obviously not; it has not acted in good faith, neither has
it been the victim of *misrepresentation." And again,
(p. 556): "(d) If the specifued amount, while purporting to
be an agreed valuation, is in fact purely fictitious, and represents an attempt to limit the carrier's liability to an arbitrary amount, liabilityfor the full value cannot be escaped in
event of loss due to negligence. This situation is substantially identical with that just considered-the difference
is one in form only."
(7.) In the Hart Case, 112 U. S. 331, the fundamental
ground of decision, as appears from what has been quoted
from the opinion, was. that since the shipper had entered
into a special agreement for the purpose of cheapening
the freight he was estopped from saying that the value of
the goods was greater than the value represented by him for
the purposes of the agreement. So, also, in the Croninger
Case, and the other recent cases referred to, estoppel was
the ground of decision, as the opinions clearly show (226
U. S. p. 510, bottom; 227 U. S. p. 476, top; 227 U. S.
p. 651, top; 227 U. S. p. 668, bottom). When participating
in these decisions, I, for one, so understood them. In
each case the principle of estoppel is essential to the
reasoning. In the Carl Case (227 U. S. p. 651), it was
said: "When a shipper delivers a package for shipment
and declares a value, either, upon request or voluntarily,
and the carrier makes a rate accordingly, the shipper is
estopped upon plain principles of justice from recovering,
in case of loss or damage, any greater amount. The same
principle applies if the value be declared in the form of a
contract. If such a valuation be made in good faith for

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
PiTNEY, J., dissenting.

233 U. S.

the purpose of obtaining the lower rate applicable to a
shipment of the declared value, there is no exemption
from carrier liability due to negligence forbidden by the
statute when the shipper is limited to a recovery of the
value so declared. The ground upon which such a declared or agreed value is upheld is that of estoppel."
[Citing the Hart Case upon this precise point.] And in the
Harriman Case (227 U. S. p. 668), the topic is summed up
as follows: "The ground upon which the shipper is limited
to the valuation declared is that of estoppel, and presupposes the valuation to be one made for the purpose
of applying the lower of two rates based upon the value
of the cattle. This whole .matter has been so fully considered in Adams Express Co. v. Croninger, 226 U. S. 491,
and Kansas City Southern Railway v. Carl, just decided,
that we only need to refer to the opinions in those cases
without further elaboration."
That these decisions are inconsistent with the theory
that the mere act of. including the regulations upon the
subject in the filed schedules would operate to limit the
liability of the carrier, without any representation or
agreement as to value, assented to by the shipper, seems
to me equally clear. Although in each case the relation of
the rate differential to the question of valuation was
brought home to the shipper, so that it appeared that the
shipper had actual notice of the regulation upon the subject contained in the filed and published schedules, it
was not suggested that the mere existence of such a regulation, coupled with the fact that the shipment was made
at the more advantageous freight rate, had the effect of
limiting the liability of the carrier in the event of a loss
attributable to negligence. On the contrary, 'while the
relation of the rate differential to the valuation was discussed, it was treated as merely showing that there was
consideration for the agreement made by the shipper
limiting the responsibility of the carrier, and as showing

BOSTON & MAINE RD. v. HOOKER.
233 U. S.

PITNEY,

J., dissenting.

the reasonableness of that agreement and the grounds of
the estoppel that grew out of it. It was in each case
plainly implied, if not expressed, that some representation
or valuation, consciously assented to by the shipper, was
essential to the limitation of the carrier's liability.
In the present case there is no ground for an estoppel
against the plaintiff. She made no representation of any
kind, her silence being attributable to her ignorance of
the existence of the baggage regulation. No. estoppel
arises where the conduct of the party sought to be estopped
is due to ignorance founded upon an innocent mistake;
and the same is more evidently true when the innocent
party is silent because not asked to speak and unaware
that there is occasion-much less, duty-to speak. There
is, I think, no support in reason or authority for holding
that a person acting in good faith but in ignorance of his
rights or of the rights of the other party, should be estopped on the ground of knowledge imputed to him by a
mere fiction of the law. 'It is only when good faith requires one to speak that silence estops him; and in the
findings of fact in this case there is not the slightest ground
to attribute to the plaintiff any want of good faith. Estoppel in pais presupposes an actual fault or a culpable
silence. Merchants Bank v. State Bank, 10 Wall. 604,
605; Morgan v. RailroadCo., 96 U. S. 716, 720.
And it seems sufficiently obvious that the railroad company did not in any wise rely upon plaintiff's silence to
its'disadvantage. There would, I think, be more reason
for holding the company itself estopped, because it, and
not the plaintiff, had knowledge of the baggage regulation;
and, according to the'findings, it was charged with notice
that the baggage was worth much more than one hundred
dollars; and the circumstances appearing from the facts
as found, clearly indicate that plaintiff, through her agent,
in effect tendered herself ready and willing to pay for her
fare and baggage charges whatever was proper under the
VOL. CCXXXIII-10

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
PITNEY,

J., dissenting.

233 U. S.

circumstances; and the company set its own price for the

service it was to render.
When the carrier was thus applied to by one of the
traveling public for the performance of a transportation
service in the line of its public duty, without any intimation that anything less than the full measure of the carrier's
responsibility would be. accepted, it was the carrier's duty,
I think, according to principles hitherto recognized, to
quote a rate commensurate with the service demanded,
including an unlimited responsibility where nothing less
was mentioned. If the law required it to charge a higher
rate for unlimited than for limited responsibility, it was
its duty to quote such higher rate. Having failed to do
this, it ought not afterwards to be permitted to take
advantage of its own wrong. In view of the Commerce
Act, I do not think the carrier, under such circumstances,
is estopped from afterwards claiming the additional compensation that it ought to have exacted when quoting
the rate. But I do think it ought to be held estopped
from setting up any limitation of its responsibility,
when no such limitation was in the contemplation of the
patron on demanding the service.
(8.) As I read the Interstate Commerce Act, it expresses
in its own terms the extent of the prohibition of special
contracts of carriage. As has often been said, the main
purpose of the act was to prevent discrimination, and
the filing of the schedules is the principal means to that
end. Section 6, as amended in 1906 (34 Stat. 587, c. 3591),
prohibits the carrier from transporting passengers or
property unless the rates, fares, and charges upon which
the same are transported have been filed and published
in accordance with the act; from charging or collecting
a different compensation for such transportation or for
any service in connection with it than as specified in the
tariff; and from refunding or remitting in any manner or
by any device any portion of the specified rates or ex-

BOSTON & MAINE 'RD. v. HOOKER.
233 U. S.

PITNEY,

J., ditisenting.

tending to any shipper or person any privileges or facilities except such as are specified in the tariff. When,
therefore, a carrier has established and promulgated its
tariff, with regulations as to service such as it has a lawful right to establish, the effect of § 6 is to render unlawful
any special contract of carriage made in contravention of
the rates and regulations thus standardized in accordance with the law. Such is the effect of § 6 of the act, and
it was held to have that effect before the passage of the
Hepburn Act. Gulf, Colorado &c. Ry. v. Hefley (1895),
158 U. S. 98; Texas & Paciric Ry. v. Mugg (1906), 202
U. S. 242; Chicago & Alton R. Co. v. Kirby, 225 U. S. 155.
All of these cases arose before the Hepburn Act, and the
decisions were based upon § 6 of the act of February 4,
1887, c. 104, 24 Stat. 379, as amended by act of March 2,
1889, c. 382, 25 Stat. 855 (set forth above in the margin),
which required the carrier to print and publicly post at
each station for the inspection and information of the
public the schedules of fares and rates for carriage of
passengers and property, and provided that it should be
unlawful for the carrier to depart from the published
schedules; and upon the third section of the original act,
which made it unlawful to give any undue or unreasonable
preference or advantage to any particular shipper. In the
Hefley Case the question decided was simply that a statute
of Texas imposing a penalty for a failure to deliver goods
on tender of the rate named in the bill of lading was not
applicable to interstate shipments. But the effect of the
decision was to declare that one who had obtained from a
common carrier transportation of goods from one State to
another at a rate specified in the bill of lading, but less
than the published schedule of rates filed with and approved by the Interstate Commerce Commission and in
force at the time, whether he did or did not know that the
rate obtained was less than the scheduled rate, was not
entitled to recover the goods upon the tender of payment

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
PITNEY,

J., dissenting.

233 U. S.

of the amount of charges named in the bill of lading, or of
any sum less than the scheduled rates; in other words,
that a special contract inconsistent with the published
tariff could not avail. This principle was adopted as the
ground of decision in the Mugg Case. And in the Kirby
Case, likewise, it was held that as the broad purpose of the
act was to compel the establishment of reasonable rates
and their uniform application, a special contract by which
advantage was given to a particular shipper could not be
enforced. The distinction between a ground of action
based upon the breach of such a special contract and one
based upon the carrier's liability for negligence was clearly
recognized in the opinion (225 U. S. p. 166), and the latter
ground of liability rejected because not presented by the
record. To the same effect is Louisville & Nashville R. R.
v. Mottley, 219 U. S. 467, 476, which arose after the Hepburn Act.
These cases rest fundamentally upon the ground that
to allow the shipper to have the benefit of a special agreement for lower rates or for better service than the standard rates and service prescribed by the published schedules
would in effect compel the carrier to violate the provisions
of the act. In this sense, and to this extent, all shippers
are "bound" by the provisions of the act that bind the
carrier. But to say that because of this a shipper or a
passenger who has made no special contract at all, and
claims the benefit of none, shall be conclusively deemed
to have made a special contract, involving terms and conditions of.which he was wholly ignorant, strikes me as a
manifest non sequitur. And to hold that a passenger whose
rights rest not upon any contract of shipment, but upon
the negligence of the carrier, shall be barred from recovering full redress for the consequences of that negligence,
upon the theory that he has unconsciously attempted to
make a special contract in contravention of the act, is, I
submit with respect, equally illogical. It seems also a

BOSTON & MAINE RD. v. HOOKER.
233 U. S.

PITNEY, J., dissenting.

complete reversal of the Hart Case and the Croninger
Case,-which declare that a carrier's liability for negligence can only be limited by such a contract or representation as shall estop the shipper,-to now hold that
without any express contract or representation by the
shipper the liability is limited, on the theory that he is
legally charged with notice of requirements of which he
was in fact ignorant.
It is true that in the case at bar, the Supreme Court of
Massachusetts (209 Massachusetts, at p. 602). unnecessarily, and, as I think, erroneously, conceded that if the
regulation limiting the baggage liability to one hundred
dollars in value was so related to the rates of transportation of passengers as to be a part of such rate, the plaintiff
was "bound," regardless of her knowledge or assent, and
therefore her recovery in this action would be limited
accordingly. The error, as it seems to me, arose from a
misconception of the effect of the decisions in the Hefley
and Mugg Cases. The fallacy, if I am correct in deeming
it to be such, lies in the double sense of the word "bound."
I respectfully suggest that this court, in a matter of such
far-reaching importance, ought not to accept the concession without testing its soundness.
If it were said that because she did not know of, and
therefore did not assent to, a [imitation of liability to $100,
she remained still liable to pay to the railroad company
the amount of money properly chargeable for the excess
of valuation, and that the company had a lien upon the
baggage for this amount on its arrival at destination, I
could see the force of the suggestion. This would, perhaps, be within the doctrine of the Hefley and Mugg Cases.
(Of course, I do not mean to say that the lien would survive after the goods were lost through the company's
negligence.) But I can find nothing in any of the cases
referred to that lends support to the view that a railroad
company can limit its liability by limiting the rate charged,

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
PITNEY,

J., dissenting.

233 U. S.

without according to the shipper or passenger any voice
in the matter.
The expressions employed in the Carl Case (227 U. S.
p. 652), that "The valuation the shipper declares determines the legal rate where there are two rates based upon
valuation," and that "When there are two published
rates, based upon difference in value, the legal rate automatically attaches itself to the declared or agreed value,"
had reference to the effect of a voluntary declaration made
by a shipper who fixes the valuation of his goods for the
purposes of the shipment, knowing that the valuation
determines the rate that must be charged, although perhaps unaware what the precise rate may be. The same
is true of similar language used in the HarrimanCase (227
U. S. at p. 669), the Cramer Case (232 U. S. at p. 493), and
the O'Connor Case (232 U. S. at p. 515). I am unable to
see that the reasoning applies to the case of a shipper or
passenger who has declared no valuation, has exercised
no choice, and is unaware that a choice is open.
To say that constructive notice of the filed regulation, of
which plaintiff was in fact ignorant, gave her an actual
opportunity to declare the value of her baggage, pay the
excess tariff rate, and thus secure the liability of the carrier to the full amount of her baggage, is to say that' a
fiction is the same as a fact.
(9.) In the Croninger Case, and the others of the same
class, the shipper consciously accepted a benefit in the
form of a reduced freight charge as the consideration of an
agreement voluntarily made valuing the goods for the
purposes of the shipment. But here the plaintiff did
nothing of the kind. She paid the full price asked by the
carrier for transportation of herself and her baggage,,
unaware of any regulation of the carrier that would require the payment of an additional charge for an unlimited
liability for baggage. If she were setting up and relying
upon any special contract made in violation of the law,

BOSTON & MAINE RD. P. HOOKER.
233 U. S.

PriNY, J., dissenting.

the doctrine of the Hefley, Mugg and Kirby Cases would
apply. But her cause of action is complete without resort
to any contract, special or general; and the contract of
which her passage tickets and the baggage checks were the
tokens, was merely the medium by which the carrier
became possessed of her baggage. Having that baggage in
its possession, the responsibility of the carrier for the
exercise by itself and its employ~s of reasonable care for
the safety of the goods arose under general principles of
law independent of the contract; and those general
principles as administered in the Federal courts (the same
as in the courts of Massachusetts), entitled her to compensation upon the basis of the actual value of the goods
lost, in the absence of a special agreement or of some
representation of value made by her, limiting that liability.
Conceding, for argument's sake, that the contract of
carriage as made between plaintiff and defendant, if
deemed to import responsibility for the entire value of the
baggage, was invalid because not made in accordance with
the regulations filed and published in connection with the
rate schedules, and because of the provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act that in effect forbid the making of
contracts otherwise than in accord with those schedules,even so, the plaintiff was in no wise at fault. She was
unaware that she was at liberty to exercise any option, to
say nothing of being under an obligation to do so. The
fault was wholly with defendant, for it made no inquiry
respecting the value of her baggage, and gave her no
notice of any limitation of iability, although itself charged
with notice from the very appearance of the baggage that
it must have been worth more than $100. And her present
action is based upon the carrier's negligence, and not upon
an affirmance of the contract.
Irrespective of the contract, the carrier, like any other
bailee for hire, was bound to take reasonable care to preserve the property ready for delivery to its owner. I can

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
PITNEY,

J., dissenting.

233 U. S.

find nothing in the letter or the spirit of the Commerce
Act that forfeits her property or any part of its value because of her violation of the act, supposing her to have
violated it. And since, through the carrier's negligence,
the property was lost, it follows, on general principles,
that her right of action, upon grounds independent of the
contract, remains; it being based upon the general obligation of the bailee to do justice. The principle is fundamental and familiar, and has been applied in a great variety
of cases. PlantersBank v. Union Bank, 16 Wall. 483, 500;
Philadelphia,W. & B. R. Co. v. PhiladelphiaTowboat Co.,
23 How. 209, 217; Spring Co. v. Knowlton, 103 U. S. 49,
58; Armstrong v. American Exchange Bank, 133 U. S. 433,
466; Logan County Bank v. Townsend, 139 U. S. 67, 75;
Pullman's Car Co. v. Transportation Co., 171 U. S. 138,
151. And see Newbury v. Luke,'68 N. J. Law, 189, 191;
Dunlop v. Mercer, 156 Fed. Rep. 545, 555; In re Bunch Co.,
180 Fed. Rep. 519, 527.
In Merchants Cotton Press Co. v. N. A. Insurance Co.,
151 U. S. 368, 388, this court held that while an agreement
for special rates, rebates, or drawbacks was void under
the Interstate Commerce Act, the law did not make the
contract of affreightment otherwise void, nor prevent
liability on the part of the carrier for the freight received;
that such a construction would encourage rather than
discourage unlawful agreements for rebates, since the
carrier might prefer them to a liability for the freight; and
that although the contract for rebate was void and unenforceable, the shipper could nevertheless recover for
loss of his freight through the carrier's negligence. This
decision has never been overruled or qualified, and it
seems to me quite decisive of the present question.
(10.) Thus far I have treated the case as one arising
under the common law rules respecting the carrier's
liability, as laid down in the decisions of this court and
adopted generally by the Federal courts. I have en-

BOSTON & MAINE. RD. v. HOOKER.
233 U. S.

PITNEY, J., dissenting.

deavored to show that a limitation of the carrier's liability
is not permitted except it result from some actual repre-

sentation or contract consciously assented to by the shipper, valuing the goods for the purposes of the shipment;

that the sole ground for limiting the responsibility "to this
extent is that the shipper is estopped by his contract or his
representations; that no different result is to be derived by
any implication from the provisions of §6 of the Interstate
Commerce Act, which merely prevents the making of a
special agreement inconsistent with the schedules, and
does not compel the assumption (contrary to the fact) that
a special agreement was made in conformity to them; that
an agreement inconsistent with the schedules, even if void
in itself, does not make the contract of affreightment otherwise void, nor prevent liability on the part of the carrier
for loss of the goods attributable to its negligence; and
that a shipper who has acted in good faith is not to be
estopped upon the theory that a fiction or presumption of
knowledge is equivalent to actual knowledge, or amounts
to the same as conscious misrepresentation. I have
hitherto refrained from attributing any special force to the
Carmack amendment as regulative of the subject-matter.
But let us now consider the specific force of that amendment (34 Stat. 584, p. 595, c. 3591, § 7, quoted in full in
the marginal note, ante, p. 126). It declares (inter alia)
that a railroad company receiving property for interstate
transportation "shall issue a receipt or bill of lading
therefor, and shall be liable to the lawful holder thereof
for any loss, damage, or injury to such property caused
by it . . . , and no contract, receipt, rule, or regulation shall exempt such common carrier, railroad, or transportation company from the liability hereby imposed."
It was concerning this provision that the court said in
the Croninger Case, speaking by Mr. Justice Lurton,
226 U. S. p. 505: "That the legislation supersedes all
the regulations and policies of a particular State upon the
same subject results from its general character. It em-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
PITNEY, J.,.dissenting.

233 U. S.

braces the subject of the liability of the carrier under a bill
of lading which he must issue and limits his power to
exempt himself by rule, regulation or contract." This was
equivalent to saying that because the carrier was obliged
to issue to the shipper a receipt or bill of lading for the
goods, and because the terms of the contract of carriage
and rules and regulations pertaining thereto are presumably embodied in the receipt or bill of lading, therefore
the act must be deemed an exercise by Congress of its
general and exclusive power over the subject-matter.
And the language of the enactment shows that it was
framed in view of the general and familiar practice of
embodying in the receipt or bill of lading all the terms of
the contract, including the valuation of the goods and the
rules and regulations for limiting the liability of the carrier. Is it not perfectly manifest that when Congress declared that the carrier "shall issue a receipt or bill of
lading" it intended that this document should embody
the "contract, receipt, rule, or regulation" that are
mentioned in the same clause? Is it possible, without
twisting the words from their plain meaning, to read this
so that the duty of the carrier shall be performed if it
issues a receipt or bill of lIding that does not evidence the
contract between the parties, and the whole of that contract?
But in the present case there was no receipt or bill of
lading within the meaning of the Carmack amendment as
thus interpreted. There was nothing but three baggage
checks, each bearing an identifying number, but, so far
as the case shows, nothing else. I cannot agree that the
statute leaves the carrier free to give a mere identifying
token, instead of a "receipt or bill of lading." 'But, if I am
wrong in this, it seems too clear for argument that so far
as the carrier intends that any of its rules or regulations
respecting its responsibility for the baggage are to be
imported into the contract, it is incumbent upon it to set

BOSTON & MAINE RD. v. HOOKER.
233 U. S.

PITNEY,

J.:, dissenting.

them forth plainly in a bill of lading delivered to the shipper or passenger. If the act admits of the construction
that a mere identifying token or check can be used in the
place of a formal receipt or bill of lading, it for that reason
must require the construction that the carrier may, and
that he does thereby, waive the benefit and protection of
the rules and regulations. 'For I cannot believe that the
Carmack amendment is open to the construction that the
shipper shall be bound by special terms or conditions respecting anything pertaining to the contract of carriage
and the carrier's responsibility, while the shipper is in fact
ignorant of them. This would leave the carrier free to set
a trap for the innocent shipper or passenger. Nor can I
agree that the act requires any affirmative regulation by
the Interstate Commerce Commission prescribing the
form of receipts to be given for baggage. I concede the
Commission may regulate the matter, so long as it does
so in conformity to the letter and spirit of the statute; but
not that the act remains without vitality until the Commission breathes into it the breath of life. In my view, the
railroad company in the present case, having failed to give
such a receipt or bill of lading as the statute contemplates,
cannot be heard to set up any limitation of its liability
for the value of the goods, for it would thereby in effect
claim a benefit from its own violation of the law.
I submit that the Hepburn Act, like the original act
and its other amendments, is intended to impose duties
upon the carrier-the public servant-not upon the shipper or.passenger. There is nothing in the letter or the
policy of the acts to absolve the carrier from its longrecognized duty to treat all shippers and passengers fairly,
and to give them an actual opportunity to make a choice,
where a choice is legally open to them. A carrier may not
absolve himself in whole or in part from his responsibilities
by any ex parte action. And where the rate schedules and
accompanying regulations are designed to give an option

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
PITNEY, J., dissenting.

233 U. S.

to the shipper, it is, I submit, incumbent upon the carrier
to see that the option is in good faith tendered, or else
abide by the more onerous of the alternatives. The
Carmack amendment means this, at least, if it means
nothing more. Therefore, the failure to deliver a bill of
lading evidencing the limitation of liability should impose
upon the carrier the highest responsibility, not the least,
that the regulations admit of; that is to say, an unlimited
responsibility for the goods.
(11.) The serious consequences of the present decision
are sufficiently manifest. Heretofore, shippers and passengers have been entitled to rest in the assurance that a
common carrier who accepted their goods for transportation in the ordinary course of a carrier's public employment, became responsible, without any express contract
upon the subject, for the full value of the goods, in case of
their destruction through any negligence of the carrier or
its agents, unless there was a distinct understanding to the
contrary, participated in by the shipper or passenger.
Hereafter, so far as interstate shipments by rail are concerned, the traveler or shipper cannot rest upon any such
assurance, and will not be safe in dealing-with a railroad
company without being authoritatively instructed respecting the latest regulations filed by the carrier with the
Interstate Commerce Commission at Washington. He
cannot rely upon finding the regulations posted in the
railroad station, for this is not essential to the efficacy of
the schedules (Texas & Pac. .Ry. v. Cisco Oil Mill, 204
U. S. 449). He cannot rely upon public notices that may
be in fact posted in the station, for these mky be misleading, as they were in the present case. He cannot rely
upon receiving information from the company's local
agents, for this may be withheld, as it was in this case.
Unless he is possessed of a copy of the tariff schedules as
filed, with time enough to scrutinize them, and skill
enough to comprehend them, he must perforce accept

TEXAS CEMENT CO. v. McCORD.
233 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

whatever terms the railroad company may see fit to offer,
and may not hope to be furnished with even a scrap of
paper to indicate what those terms Are.
I can find no support for the result thus reached, either
in the statute or in any previous decision.

UNITED STATES EX REL. TEXAS PORTLAND
CEMENT COMPANY v. McCORD.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 234.

Argued March 6, 1.914.-Decided April 6, 1914.

When the purpose of Congress is stated in such plain terms that there
is no uncertainty, and no construction is required, it is unnecessary
to inquire into the motives which induced the legislation. The only

province of the courts in such a case is to enforce the statute in accordance with its terms.
Limitations specified in the statute creating a new liability are a part
of the right conferred and compliance therewith is essential to the
assertion of the right conferred by the statute.
An amendment dates back to the filing of the petition and is to supply
defects in the petition with reference to the cause of action then
existing, or at most to bring into the suit grounds of action which did
exist at the beginning of the case..
Under the act of August 13, 1894, as amended by the act of February 24, 1905, a materialman or laborer may not bring suit on the contractor's bond in the Federal court in the name of the United States
for his use and benefit, within six months from completion and
settlement, even though the United States has not asserted any, and
has no, claim against the contractor or his sureties.
Where the original bill was premsturely filed, an intervention after the
six month, and before the twelve month, period is not effectual as
such or as an original bill.
An amended bill filed more than one year after completion of the work
and settlement, if treated as an original bill, is fied too late.

facts, which involve the construction of the materialman's act of February '24, 1905, and the rights of contractors thereunder, are stated in the opinion,
THE

