AM. IRON CO. v. SEABOARD AIR LINE.
233 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

AMERICAN IRON AND STEEL MANUFACTUR-

ING CO. v. SEABOARD AIR LINE RAILWAY.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 233.

Argued March 6, 1914.-Decided April 6, 1914.

Whatever may have been the English and early American rule, the
present tendency in this country is to allow interest on contracts
to pay money from the date the debt becomes due; and so held as
to goods sold in Virginia on a credit of thirty days.
The acceptance of goods sold on a credit of a specified number of days
is equivalent to a promise to pay the money on that day, Atlantic
Phosphate Co. v. Graffiin, 114 U. S.492, and interest accrues as an
incident of the debt and not me:rely as damages.
The general rule that interest is not allowed after property of the insolvent is in custodia legis, is not based on loss of interest-bearing
quality, but is a necessary and enforced rule incident to equality of
distribution between creditors of assets which, in most cases, are insufficient to pay all debts in full.
On the facts certified in this case, held that interest was recoverable
on a debt for goods sold on a thirty day credit at the legal rate of
.interest from the expiration ol the credit until payment, including
the period that the assets of the debtor were in the hands of a receiver in asuit to foreclose a mortgage.

the provisions of ยง6 of the act of March 3, 1891,
c. 517, 26 Stat. 826, 828, the Circuit Court of Appeals of
UNDER

the Fourth Circuit certified to this court a question on

which it desired instructiorL, and in that connection made
the following Statement of Facts:
"Upon a bill filed by a railway company alleging its
insolvency and consequent inability to maintain itself
as a going concern, except through the medium of a receivership, receivers were appointed. The bill alleged that
a receivership would enable the property of the Railway
Company to be preserved. and maintained as a whole,

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Case.

233 U. S.

and the sums due and to become due to the bondholders
and creditors to be secured and ultimately paid in full.
"The trustee in the first mortgage answered the bill
admitting its allegations, and afterwards filed a cross bill
again admitting the allegations of the bill in regard to the
insolvency of the company. The suit was not a creditors'
suit. The trustee subsequently filed a bill in the same
court to foreclose the mortgage, seeking a sale of the equity
of redemption, and the two suits were consolidated. No
prior encumbrancers were made parties to either suit.
Prior to the receivership the claimant furnished supplies
to the railway company, for which, shortly after the receivers were appointed, a lien was duly perfected under
the statute of Virginia known as the Labor and Supply
Lien Statute, Code of Va., ยง 2485. The supplies were
sold on a credit of '30 days, one per cent. discount allowed
for payment in 10 days.' Claimant filed its claim before
the Special Master in the receivership proceedings, relying
upon a statutory lien under the statute Above mentioned.
The Special Master reported against the allowance of
interest on the claiin to which report in that particular
claimant excepted.
"Subsequently, on the petition of the railway company,
a decree was entered approving 'a plan of adjustment' of
the finances of the company, and providing for turning
back to the company its property, and for ending the
receivership at a'certain time. From time to time during
the receivership and at the ratification of the plan of
adjustment, and as a part thereof, all interest due at the
time of the appointment of the receivers and accruing
during the receivership on all the funded and many of
the floating obligations of the Railway Company were
paid in full. The amount so paid for interest aggregated
some millions of dollars..
"The decree approving the plan of adjustment provided
that the company should pay in due course of business all

AM. IRON CO. ,v. SEABOARD AIR LINE.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

its obligations, liabilities and indebtedness, and reserved
the right, in the event of default in that regard, to any
claimant aggrieved by such default, to present his petition
to the Court to have his claim enforced 'to the same extent as though the receivership had continued.'
"After the receivership had been thus terminated, claimant filed its petition in the Court praying that its exceptions to the Special Master's report should be sustained
and for the enforcement of its claims, including interest
thereon during the period of the receiverahip, and seeking
to enforce it not upon the doctrine of an equitable lien,
but as a statutory lien. The Circuit Court refused to
allow interest for the period of the receivership, and from
that ruling an appeal was taken."
QUESTION

Is interest recoverable on such a claim for the period of
the receivership?
Mr. George Wayne Anderson, with whom Mr. Henry R.
Pollardwas on the brief, for the American Iron and Steel
Manufacturing Co.
Mr. L. L. Lewis for the Seaboard Air Line Railway
'et al.
MR. JUSTICE LAMAR, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

The statement of facts made by the Circuit Court of
Appeals of the Fourth Circuit, shows that supplies were
sold to a railway company on 30 days' credit. Before
the credit period expired the road, alleged to be insolvent,
was, on its own application placed in the hands of Receivers, their appointment being subsequently continued under
a Bill for foreclosure filed by mortgage trustees. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

Railway Company succeeded in making a readjustment
of its bonded indebtedness and the property was returned
to the owners. The court, however, retained jurisdiction
for the purpose of passing upon the claims of creditors
aggrieved by the Company's default in paying its obligations. Among those presented was the American Iron and
Steel Manufacturing Company's claim for supplies secured by a lien which by statute took priority over mortgages. The matter was referred to a Master on pleadings
not before us. He made a report (not in the record) and
on exceptions thereto the Circuit Court refused to allow
interest. From that statement, in connection with the
briefs and arguments, of. both counsel, we infer that the
Railway was directed to pay the principal of the claim.
The case was then taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Fourth Circuit which certifies to ths court the
question,." Is interest recoverable on such a claim for the
period of the Receivership?"
Both parties agree that the matter is controlled by the
law in Virginia, but no light is thrown on the subject
by the statute of thd State which merely declares that legal
interest shall continue to be at the rate of six per cent.
Pollard's Code, ยง 2817. No Virginia case directly in point
is cited in either of the briefs and there is a complete
disagreement between counsel as to the bearing of the
state decisions on the question here involved..
On the part of the Railway Company it is contended
that interest could not have been recovered on this claim
even in an action at law. On the authority of Calton v.
Bragg, 15 East, 223; Newton v. Wilson, 3 Hen. & M. 470;
Quincy v. Humphreys, 145 U. S 82, and other like cases,
it is argued that the: right to. interest is a matter of agreement and can be recovered, as a part of the debt, only
where it has been reserved in the contract -or where a
promise is implied from the character of the note or instrument evidencing the debt. The Railway therefore

AM. IRON CO. v. SEABOARDAIR LINE.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

insists that as the Intervenor sold the supplies, without
taking a note and without securing a promise to pay
interest, there was no. right to recover interest as an incident of the debt, although a jury, as a matter of discretion, might have allowed it by way of damages for unreasonable delay in making payment.
On the other hand, counsel for the Iron & Steel Company
contend that as these supplies were sold on a credit of
30 days. a promise was implied to pay interest after that
date as an incident of the debt itself. From Chapman v.
Shepherd, 24 Gratt. 377, 383; Craufurd v. Smith, 93 Virginia, 623 (2); Tidball v. 'Shenandoah Bank, 100 Virginia,
741; Butler Co. v. Virginwia Railway Co., 113 Virginia, 28
(7); Roberts v: Cocke, 28 Gratt. 207, and Cooper v. Coates,
21 Wall. 105, 111, we reach the conclusion that whatever
may have been the IEnglish and early' American rule, the
tendency in Virginia, as elsewhere in this country, is to
allow interest on contracts to pay money from the date
that the debt becomes due. 2 Minor's Institute, 381. The
sale here of supplies on 30 days' credit was not, as argued,
a mere agreement for the benefit of the buyer that it
should not be sued before the expiration of that time,
but was the fixing of a definite date for payment of the
purchase money. The acceptance of the supplies, sold
on those terms, was equivzalent to a promise to pay the
money on that day, AtLantic Phosphate Co. v. Grafflin,
114 U. S. 492, 500., As payment was not then made, the
Railway Company was in default. and interest, began to
accrue as an incident of the debt, recoverable as such
and not merely as damageis to'be allowed in the discretion
of court or jury. This appears to have been the view of
the Circuit 'Court of Appeals since the interest-bearing
quality of the debt seems to be assumed in the question-" Is interest- recoverable on such a claim for the
period of the Receivership,"
In the discussion as to the answer which should be

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

given that question, the Railway Company insists that,
whether treated as part of the debt or allowed as damages,
interest can only be charged against the Railway because
of delay due to its own fault, while here the failure to pay
was due to the act of the law in taking its property into
custody and operating the same by Receivers in order to
prevent the disruption of a great public utility. And it is
true, as held in Tredegar Co. v. Seaboard Ry., 183 Fed.
Rep. 289, 290, that 'as a general rule, after property of an
insolvent is in custodia legis interest thereafter accruing is
not allowed on debts payable out of the fund realized by a
sale of the property. But that is not because the claims
had lost their interest-bearing quality during that period,
but is a necessary and enforced rule of distribution, due
to the fact that in case of receiver-ships the assets are
generally insufficient to pay debts in full. If all claims
were of equal dignity and all bore the same rate of interest,
from the date of the receivership to the date of final distribution, it would be immaterial whether the dividend
was calculated on the basis of the principal alone or of
principal and interest combined. But some of the debts
might carry a high rate and some a low rate, and hence
inequality would result in the payment of interest which
accrued during the delay incident to collecting and distributing the funds. As this delay was the act of the law,
no one should thereby gain an advantage or suffer a loss.
For that and like reasons, in case funds are not sufficient
to pay claims of equal dignity, the distribution is made
only on the basis of the principal of the debt. But that
rule did not prevent the running of interest during the
Receivership; and if as a result of good fortune or good
management, the estate proved sufficient to discharge the
claims in full, interest as well as principal should be paid.
Even in bankruptcy, and in the face of the argument that
the debtor's liability on the debt and its incidents terminated at the date of adjudication and as a fixed liability

AM. IRON CO. v. SEABOARD AIR LINE.
233 U. S.

Opinion cf the Court.

was transferred to the fund, it has been held, in the
rare instances where the assets ultimately proved sufficient
for the purpose, that creditors were entitled to interest
accruing after adjudication. 2 Blackstone's Comm. 488;
Cf. Johnson v. Norris, 190 Fed. Rep. 459, 460 (5).
The principle is not limited to cases of technical bankruptcy, where the assets ultimately prove sufficient to pay
all debts in full but principal as well as interest, accruing
during a receivership, is paid on debts of the highest
dignity, even though what remains is not sufficient to pay
claims of a lower rank in full. Central Co. v. Condon,
67 Fed. Rep. 84; Richmond &c. Co. . Richmond R. Co.,
68 Fed. Rep. 105, 116; FirstNational Bank v. Ewing, 103

Fed. Rep. 168, 190.
The Railway Company relies on the statement in
Thomas v. Western Car Co., 149 U. S. 95, 116, that "as a
general rule, after prop'erty of an insolvent passes into the
hands of a receiver, interest is not allowed on claims
against the funds." The court there refused to allow
interest on car rentals, accruing during the receivership,

under an old contract, because the funds were not sufficient
to pay the bonds, saying (117): "We see no reason in
departing from this [general] rule in a case like the present,
where such a claim [for car rentals] would be paid out of
moneys that fall far short of paying the mortgage debt."
But here, interest was "paid on mortgage bonds and
should therefore have been paid on a claim which by
statute was given priority over the bonds.

This was

specially true where the property was in the hands of a
Receiver on the application of the debtor and of the
mortgage trustees. For, manifestly, the law does not
contemplate that either the debtor or the trustees can,
by securing the appointment of Receiver, stop the running
of interest on claims of the highest dignity.
In the brief for the Railway Company attention is
called to the fact that the road was not in custodia legis

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

under a creditors' suit, but in a proceeding to foreclose
the equity of redemption. In view of that fact it is argued
that the Iron and Steel Company should be remitted to its
action at law against the Company which is now in possession of the property. But this seems to involve matters
not within the question certified by the Circuit Court of
Appeals. The property was returned to the Railway
Company on condition that any creditor aggrieved by the
failure to pay his claim might present his petition to the
court and have it enforced "to the same extent as though
the receivership had continued." As a fact interest wAs
paid on the floating indebtedness, out of earnings made
by the Receivers appointed first under a bill which asked
that the property be taken in charge by the court so that
ultimately all creditors would be paid in full. We must
assume that the court had the right to make these payments and if so it had a like right in the case of the claim
for railway supplies. No question is raised as to the power
of the court to require payment of the principal of appellant's debt, and if the court could require a payment of the
principal, it could also enforce the payment of the interest
which was but an incident of that debt. If the property
had remained in the hands of the Receiver the Lienor
might have been permitted to intervene and share in the
fund realized by the sale of property in the hands of receivers appointed, first, on the application of the Railway,
in the interest of all creditors, and continued by an order
entered in the bill to foreclose the mortgage.
It is, however, not necessary to discuss that matter
further than to say that on the facts stated, interest was
recoverable on the American iron and Steel Company's
claim for the period of receivership.
The question certified by the Circuit Court of Appeals is
answered in the affirmative.

