ERIE R. R. CO. v. WILLIAMS.
233 U. S.

Syllabus.

court said (p. 376) "that the Labor Law putiorts and attempts indiscriminately and inseparably, to regulate the
hours of the classes of employ6s designated whether engaged in interstate or local traffic, and that, therefore, its
validity must be tested by the power of the legislature
over the former."
The trial court, it is true, undertook to make a distinction between the interstate business of the railroad and
Henion's duties, but, in view of the cases which- we have
cited and of the decision of the Appellate Division and of
the Court bf Appeals, the distinction is untenable. Balt.
& Ohio R. R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 221
U. S. 612; Second Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

ERIE RAILROAD COMPANY v. WILLIAMS, AS
COMMISSIONER OF LABOR OF THE STATE
OF NEW YORK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 274.

Argued April 27, 1914.-Decided May 25, 1914.

While it is a fundamental principle that personal liberty, includes the
power to make contracts, the liberty of making contracts is subject to
conditions in the interest of the public welfare, and whether that
principle or those conditions shall prevail cannot be defined by any
precise or universal formula. Each case must be determined by
itself.
Each act of legislation has the presumption that it has been enacted in
the public interest and the burden is on him who attacks it.
The burden of the party attacking a police regulation as unconstitutional under the due process clause is not sustained by the mere
principle of liberty of contract; it can only be sustained by showing

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

233 U. S.

that the statute conflicts with some constitutional restraint or does
not subserve the public welfare.
The legislature is the judge in the first instance of whether a police
regulation is necessary; judicial review is limited, and even an
earnest conflict of public opinion does not bring the question of necessity within the range of judicial cognizance.
Cost and inconvenience to the party affected must be very great in
order to justify the courts in declaring void the action of the State in
exercising its reserved power over charters or its police power.
The effect of the reservation of the power to amend and alter charters of
corporations is to make a corporation, from the moment of its creation,
subject to the legislative power in those respects as a corporate body;
and questions of expediency are for the legislature and not for the
courts so long as the amendments or alterations do not defeat or
substantially impair the object of the grant or rights vested thereunder.
Alteration of the manner or time of payment of employds does not
defeat or substantially impair the object of the charter granted to a
railroad corporation, and a state statute, otherwise valid, regulating
such time and manner, is not unconstitutional as, impairing such
charter.
Whether a statute imposes an unjust burden depends upon its validity;
and whether the public welfare is subserved thereby is, in the first
instance, to be determined by the legislature, whose action the
courts will not review unless unmistakably and palpably in excess
of legislative power. McLean v. Arkansas, 211 U. S. 539.
In determining time and manner of payment of wages of employds
the legislature can consider the fact that to those who work for a
living there is an advantage in the ready purchasing power of cash
over deferred payments involving the use of credit.
Where Congress has not acted on the subject, and there is no prohibition on interstate commerce, a State may regulate matters within its
police power although incidentally affecting interstate commerce.
Congress has not, as yet, acted in regard to the time and manner of
payment of wages of employ6s of interstate carriers.
A state statute regulating periods of payment of wages of railroad
employ~s' which is limited to the employds wholly within that
State or whose duties take them from that State to other States
and which is not applicable to those employed in other States, is
not a direct burden on interstate commerce.
An employer cannot be heard to attack a state statute relating to payment of wages, on the ground that it denies to some of his employ6s

ERIE R. R. CO. v. WILLIAMS.
233 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

the equal protection of the law because they are not within its protection.
The provision of the Labor Law of New York of 1907 requiring semimonthly payments in cash of wages of employ~s of certain specified
industries, including railroads, is not unconstitutional as denying due
process of law, or, as to a railroad company incorporated in that
State, as impairing the obligation of the charter contract; nor is it, as
it has been construed by the highest court of that State, a direct
burden on interstate commerce; but, as so construed, it is a valid
exercise of the police power of the State.
Judgment based on 199 N. Y. 108: 52&, affirmed.

SUIT brought by plaintiff in error, the Erie Railroad

Company (as it was plaintiff below we shall so designat6
it) to restrain the defendant in error (herein called defendant) from instituting actions to recover penalties for noncompliance with the provisions of the Labor Law of the
State of New York (Laws of 1907, c. 415; General Laws,
e. 32) which required plaintiff to pay its employ~s semimonthly and in cash.
The object of the suit is to test the constitutionality of
the law.
The bill is very elaborate and alleges with much detail
the following facts: Plaintiff is a New York corporation,
and defendant is Commissioner of Labor of the State.
Plaintiff maintains a railroad in New York which extends
into other States, and operates car floats and other floating
equipment, navigating the navigable waters of the United
States. These and other equipment are used in the business of plaintiff as a common carrier of persons and
property under and in compliance with tariffs duly promulgated and filed under the laws of the State and of the
'United States; and plaintiff is also a carrier of the United
States mails. As a rule, the! trains of plaintiff run over an
operating division without change of employ6s. Some of
the divisions are interstate and some wholly within the
State of New York.

OCTOBER TERM; 1913.
Statement of the Case.

233 U. S.

Plaintiff, in carrying out its functions, has in its service
upon that portion of its road lying east of Meadville,
Pennsylvania, upwards of 15,000 men, who are employed
either wholly within or partially within the State of New
York, and nearly all of them are employed in the movement of interstate commerce. The great majority of
these employ6s render service in more than one State and
many of them who reside in Pennsylvania or New Jersey
render a part of their service in New York, and many who
reside in the latter State render service in the other two
States. The contracts of employment of many of them
were made, and in the future must be made, in States
other than New York, in which States they must reside.
By the laws of New York plaintiff was vested with its
powers as a railroad and to contract and be contracted
with for the employment of persons-to conduct its operations and enterprises at and for such wages and upon such
terms of payment as should or might be mutually agreed
on; and thereunder it has been its custom to pay its employ~s monthly and thus pay them prior to or on the
twentieth day of each month the wages earned during the
preceding month.
The great majority of plaintiff's employ~s were in its
service prior to January 1, 1908, and all accepted such
service with full knowledge of its general and uniform
custom so to pay its employds monthly.
Prior to January 1, 1908, there existed and has since
existed a contract between plaintiff and its employ6s that
the latter should be paid monthly as stated, and so to pay
them, as distinguished from payment twice a month, is
not inconsistent with the public interest or hurtful to the
public order or detrimental to the common good'
Section 4 of Article I of the Labor Law of the State
makes it malfeasance in office, for any officer, agent or
employ6 of the State to violate or evade his duty under

ERIE R. R. CO. v. WILLIAMS.
233 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

the law or knowingly permit the violation or evasion of the
act, and'he is subject to removal from office.
Section 9 1 provides that every railroad company and
"SECTION 9. Cash payment of wages.-Every manufacturing, mining, quarrying, mercantile, railroad, street railway, canal, steamboat,
telegraph and telephone company, every express company, every
corporation engaged in harvesting and storing ice, and every water
company, not municipal, and every person, firm or corporation, engaged in or upon any public work for the state or any municipal corporation thereof, either as a contractor or a sub-contractor therewith, shall
pay to each employd engaged in his, their or its business the wages
earned by such employ6 in cash. No such company, person, firm or
corporation shall' hereafter pay such employ6s in script, commonly
known as store money-orders. (As amended by c. 443, Laws of 1908.)
"SE TION 10. When wages are to be paid,-Every corporation or
joint-stock association, or person carrying on the business thereof by
lease or otherwise, shall pay weekly to each employ6 the wages earned
by him to a day not more than six days prior to the date of such payment. But every person or corporation operating a steam surface
railroad shall, on or before the first day of each month, pay the employ6s thereof the wages earned by them during the first half of the
preceding month ending with the fifteenth day thereof, and on or before
the fifteenth day of each month pay the employ6s thereof the wages
earned by them during the last haf of the preceding calendar month.
(As amended by c. 442, Laws of 1903.)
"SECTION 11. Penalty for violation of preceding sections.-If a
corporation or joint-stock association, its lessee or other person carrying
on the business thereof, shall fail to pay the wages of an employ6, as
provided in this article, it shall forfeit to the people of the State the
sum of fifty dollars for each failure, to be recovered by the factory inspector in his name of office in a civil action; but an action shall not be
maintained therefor unless the factory inspector shall have given to the
employer at least ten days' written notice that such an action will be
brought if the wages due are not sconer paid as provided in this article.
"On the trial of such action, such corporation or association shall not
be allowed to set up any defense, other than a valid assignment of such
wages, a valid set-off against the same, or the absence of such employ6
from his regular place of labor at the time of the payment, or an actual
tender to such employ6 at the time of the payment of the wages so
earned by him, or a breach of contract by such employ6 or a denial of
the employment."
VOL. CCXXXiii-44

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Case.

233 U. S.

certain other companies shall pay their employ6s in
cash, and no such company shall pay its employ~s in
script commonly known as store money-orders.
Section 10 requires the payment of employ~s' wages
semi-monthly.
Section 11 imposes a penalty of $50 for each failure to so
pay, to be recovered by the factory inspector in his name of
office in a civil action, and limits the defenses to the action
to a valid assignment of such wages, a valid set-off against
the same, or the absence of such employ6 from his regular
place of labor at the time of the payment or an actual
tender at the time of the payment or a breach of contract
by such employ6 or a denial of the employment.
The Commissioner of Labor is required to enforce the
provisions of, the law, and notified plaintiff of his intention
to do so, and to sue for the penalties imposed by the act.
He expressed his opinion of the act to be that each failure
to pay the wages of each employ6 constituted a separate
offense and that the aggregate of the penalties would be
$250,000. Plaintiff believes, unless that officer is restrained, that he will exercise his authority under the
act.
The employ~s of plaintiff are distributed over more
than 1,819 miles and the making of the payment of their
wages in money semi-monthly instead of monthly will
impose upon and subject plaintiff to an increased cost and
expense of several thousand dollars each month.
The difficulty of semi-monthly payments is described
and it is alleged that the drastic and enormous penalties
are, by reason of their necessarily aggregate character and
effect, so excessive as to evidence legislative intention to
unduly limit or prevent judicial inquiry, and practically
constrain plaintiff tQ submit to the statute rather than by
contesting its validity to take the chances of the penalties
it imposes.
That the statute by its terms prevents plaintiff from

ERIE R. R. CO. v. WILLIAMS.
233 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

setting up in defense the contracts existing between it and
its employs for the payment of their wages once a
month and that the statute vidlates, when applied to
plaintiff, various provisions of the Constitution of the
State and of the United States, and thereby is repugnant
.to Article III of the Constitution of the United States and
Article VI of the constitution of the State of New York in
that it is an invasion by the legislature of the judicial
power; and it is also repugnant to § 1 of Article XIV of the
Constitution of the United States and § 6, Article I
of the constitution of the State of New York in that it
deprives plaintiff of property without due process of law;
and violates § 10, Article I, of the Constitution of the
United States in that it impairs the obligation of contracts.
The act in its other provisions deprives plaintiff of property
without due process of law and of the equal protection of
the'laws. It also interferes with and impairs plaintiff's
performance and discharge of its duties as a common
carrier in interstate commerce, is not a valid exercise of
the police power and is illegal and unenforceable and void
under articles of the Constitution of the State and of the
United States which are enumerated.
By the enforcement of the act plaintiff will be subjected
to enormous penalties, a :multiplicity of suits and to great
and irreparable damage, and plaintiff has no adequate
remedy at law.
The answer of the defendant admitted the allegations of
the complaint as to the statute and alleged that he intended to give such notice to plaintiff as to enforcing such
penalties as he was required by the law to give and enforce.
He denied that he had any knowledge or information
sufficient to form a beliEf regarding the truth of the other
allegations of the complaint.
A stipulation of facts, was entered into by the parties
upon which the court entered judgment dismissing the
complaint. The judgment was successively affirmed by

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

233 U. S.

the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court and by the
Court of Appeals.
The facts stipulated practically sustain the allegations of
the answer and detail the manner of the payment by plaintiff of its employds. The plaintiff also introduced in
evidence an exhibit which classified its employ6s and
showed the number of days work, total compensation and
average compensation per day as per pay rolls for the
year ending June 30, 1908. Its materiality was contested.
Mr. Frederic D. McKenney, with whom Mr. George F.
Brownell was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The Labor Law of New .York is repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment, in that it deprives the company of
property, and specifically deprives the company and those
of its employ~s to whom it applies of liberty without due
process of law.
Cases holding to the contrary can be distinguished.
The statute imposes upon the employers to whom it relates a burden that is unjust and a duty which it is impossible to perform.
The excess cost of paying employ6s twice a month as
distinguished from once a month and the burden of care,
labor, and responsibility imposed by the statute constitute
a direct burden upon interstate commerce and violate the
commerce clause of the Federal Constitution.
The statute violates the Fourteenth Amendment in that
it denies to the employ6s of the Erie Railroad Company
the equal protection of the laws.
Mechanics, workingmen, and laborers are not a dependent class as compared with other railway empltoy6s.
The classification is arbitrary in the fact that it places
the burden upon a corporation and does not place it upon
individuals and copartners engaged in the same business.
In support of these contentions, see Adair v. United
States, 208 U. S. 161; Atlantic Coast Line v. Wharton, 207

ERIE R. R. CO. v. WILLIAMS.
233 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

U. S. 328; Beardsley v. N. Y., L. E. & W. R. R. Co., 162
N. Y. 230; Bedford Quarries Co. v. Bough, 168 Indiana,
671; Braceville Coal Co. v. Illinois, 147 Illinois, 66; C., C.,
C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v. Illinois, 177 U. S. 514; Colon v. Lisk,
153 N. Y. 188; Connolly v. Union Sewer PipeCo., 184 U. S.
540; Cooley's Const. Limitations, 7th ed., pp. 837 and 838;
Cotting v. Kansas City Stock Yards, 183 U. S. 79; Forsterv.
Scott, 136 N. Y. 577; Foster v. New Orleans, 94 U. S. 246;
Galveston &c. R. R. Co. v. Texas, 210 U. S. 217; Gloucester
Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114 U. S. 196; Godcharles v.
Wegeman, 113 Pa. St. 431; Gulf, Col. &c. Ry. Co. v. Ellis,
165 U. S. 150,158; Ill. Cent. R. R. v. Illinois, 163 U. S. 142;
House Bill No. 1230, -163 Massachusetts, 589; Matter of
Jacobs, 98 N. Y. 98; Johnson v. Goodyear Mining Co., 127
California, 4; Kane v..Erie R. R. Co., 133 Fed. Rep. 681;
Lake Shore Ry. Co. v. Smith, 173 U. S. 684; Lawrence v.
Rutland R. R. Co., 80 'Vermont, 370; Leep v. St. L. & I.
M. R. R. Co., 58 Arkansas, 407; Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S.
100; Lochner v. New York, 198 U. S. 45; Lord v. Equitable
Life Assur. Soc., 194 N. Y. 212; Moran v. New Orleans, 112
U. S. 69; Rodgers v. Coler, 166 N. Y. 1; People v. Gillson,
109 N. Y. 389; People v. Hawkins, 157 N. Y. 1; People v.
Orange County Construction Co., 175 N. Y. 84; People v.
Williams, 189 N. Y. 131; PhiladelphiaS. S. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 112 U. S. 326; Robbins v. Shelby Co., 120 U. S.
489; Republic Iron Co. v. Indiana, 160 Indiana, 379; San
Antonio &c. Ry. Co. v. Wilson, 19 S. W. Rep. 910; Shields
v. Ohio, 95 U. S. 319; Simpson v. Shepherd, 230 U. S. 352,
398; State v. Brown Mfg. Co., 18 R. I. 16; Toledo, St. L. &
W. R. Co. v. Long, 169 Indiana, 316; Wright v. Hart, 182
N. Y. 330, 344.
Mr. Joseph A. Kellogg, with whom Mr. Thomas Carmody, Attorney General of the State of New York, and
Mr. Wilber W. Chambers were on the brief, for defendant
inerror:

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

233 U. S.

The courts will not overturn enactments of the legislature of a State unless the clearest and gravest reasons
exist for so doing.
Legislative acts will be presumed to be constitutional,
and if there is any doubt at all such doubt will be resolved
in favor of the validity of legislative acts. Sinking-Fund
Cases, 99 U.S. 700; Sweet v. Rechel, 159 U. S. 380; Home
Tel. Co. v. Los Angeles, 211 U. S.265, 281.
These statutes are a proper exercise of the reserved
power to amend corporate charters, contained in the constitution of the State of New York. 1 Rev. Stat. 1827, 600,
§ 8; Const. N. Y., adopted in 1846 and revised in 1894,
Art. VIII, § 1.
The constitutionality of these statutes may be upheld
as to corporations under this reserved power of amendment. Berea College v. Kentucky, 211 U. S.45. See also
Leep v. Railway Co., 58 Arkansas, 407.
As to the power of the State to amend corporate
charters, see Adirondack Railway Co. v. New York, 176
U. S.335; New York & New Eng. R. R. Co. v. Bristoi, 151
U. S.556, 567; People v. O'Brien, 111 N. Y. 1; Greenwood
v. Freight Co., 105 U. S. 13; Lord v. Equitable Life Assur.
Soc., 194 N. Y. 212.
The single limitation to this general rule is that the
power may not be exercised to destroy property or rights
guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment and by similar provisions of state constitutions. St. L., I. M. &c. Ry.
v. Paul, 173 U. S.404, 408; State v. Brown Mfg. Co., 18
R. I. 16.
The reserved power to amend corporate charters is much
greater than the police power. Dartmouth College Case, 4
Wheat. 518; N. Y. & New Eng. R. R. Co. v. Bristol, 151
U. S.556.
The franchise to be a corporation may be entirely taken
away, and the legislature may also prescribe the conditions
and terms upon which it will allow the corporation to live

ERIE R. R. CO. v. WILLIAMS.
233 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

and exercise such franchise. :t may enlarge or limit its
powers, and increase or limit its burdens. It cannot subvert the purpose for which the corporation was formed
by changing an insurance corporation to a railroad company, for instance, but short of that it would seem to have
the right to make any regulation which in its judgment is
desirable, so long as it does not deprive the corporation of
property or impair the obligation of existing contracts.
Mayor v. Twenty-third St. R. R. Co., 113 N. Y. 311, 317;
Lord v. Equitable Life Assur. Soc'ty, 194 N. Y. 212.
The provisions of the Labor Law here attacked are a
legitimate exercise of the reserved power to amend because
they relate simply to methods of internal administration
to be followed by the corporations and do not deprive the
corporations of any vested rights or subvert the purposes
for which they were formed.
Regulation of methods of administration or internal
management are included within the scope of this reserved
power over corporate charters. Lord v. Equitable Life
Assur. Soc'ty, 194 N. Y. 212.
See also Berea College Case, supra; Sinking Fund Cases,
99 U. S. 700; Spring Valley Water Co. v. Schlotter, 110
U. S. 347.
The present enactments are not subversive of the objects for which the corporations were formed and do not
deprive them of vested rights.
These statutes are not unconstitutional as an exercise of
the reserved power to amend corporate charters even if
we should assume for argument's sake that they necessarily limited somewhat the freedom of contract of the
employ6s of such corporations. Red River Bank v. Craig,
181 U. S. 548, 558; Hatch v. Reardon, 204 U. S. 152, 160,
and cases cited.
These statutes do not deprive the employ~s of freedom of
contract. So far as these are concerned, that question is
merely academic. It can be raised only by the employ6s

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

233 U. S.

themselves, and if they do not care to object to the law
on that ground this plaintiff in error is not at liberty to
4lo so. Yazoo & Miss. R. R. Co. v. Jackson Vinegar Co.,
226 U. S. 217; State v. Brown Mfg. Co., 18 R. I. 16.
The validity of similar laws has been frequently upheld
by the courts of other States and by this court, upon this
very ground. Peel Coal Co. v. West Virginia, 36 W. Va.
802; Leep v. Railway Co., 58 Arkansas, 407', St. Louis &c.
Ry. Co. v. Paul, 64 Arkansas, 83, aff'd 173 U. S. 404;
Shaffer v. Union Mining Co., 55 Maryland, 74; Skinner v.
Garnett Mining Co., 96 Fed. Rep. 735, 744; Atkin v. Kansas, 191 U. S. 207.
The statutes are also constitutional as a proper and

legitimate exercise of the police power of the State.
As to definition of police power, see Holden v. Hardy,
169 U. S. 366; Jacobson v. Massachusetts, 197 U. S. 11;
People v. Ewer, 141 N. Y. 129; Nechamcus v. Warden, 144
N. Y. 529, 535.
In determining whether the legislature properly exercised this power, the court will take into consideration all
facts of which it has judicial knowledge, including public
records or reports, encyclopedias, laws of other States and
the general or commonly accepted belief of the community.
Jacobson v. Massachusetts, supra; Knoxville Iron Co. v.
Harbison, 183 U. S. 13; McLean v. Arkansas, 211 U. S. 539.
The purpose of these acts is to benefit the community
and the public in various ways, arising out of the protection which they afford to the large class of men employed
by corporations.
The primary purpose of these laws, of course, is to secure
to the laboring men the full value or purchasing power of
their wages. Cases supra, and Arkansas Stave Co. v.
Arkansas, 125 S. W. Rep. 1001.
There is no valid objection to that part of the statute
involved because it applies to corporations and not to
natural persons.

ERIE R. R. CO. v. WILLIAMS.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

A classification of steam railroad companies is proper
and does not invalidate the statute for that reason.
Aluminum Co. v. Ramsey, 222 U. S. 251; Mutual Loan Co.
v. Martell, 222 U. S. 225; Louis. & Nash. R. Co. v. Melton,
218 U. S. 36: Chi., R. I. & Pac. Ry. Co. v. Arkansas, 219
U. S. 453.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, after stating the case as above,
delivered the opinion\of the court.

The contention of plaintiff is that the Labor Law is
repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment "in that it deprives the company of property, and specifically deprives
the company, and those of its employ~s to whom it applies, of liberty without due process of law." The contention may be limited at, the outset to the rights of the
company. It cannot complain for its employ~s; and before
considering the contention thus limited, it is well to see
what meaning or extent the Court of Appeals gave to the
law.
The court decided that the law operates not only to require the railroads to pay their employ~s semi-monthly,
but prohibits them from making contracts with their employds which shall vary the time of payment. If this
were not the meaning of the law, the court said, neither
railroads nor their employ~s would have any ground of
complaint (199 N. Y. p. 114) "as both master and servant
would be left at liberty to make any contract they pleased
in regard to the time when the servant's wages should be
payable and the medium in Which they should be paid."
This liberty not existing, the court stated the contention
of the plaintiffs to be that the law deprives them "of the
right of making contracts with their employes on advantageous terms, and that this is beyond the power of the
legislature." The plaintiff also contended that it was
denied the equal protection of the laws.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

The opposing'contentions were stated to be: (1) The
legislation is a proper exercise of the power reserved by
the constitution of the State to amend corporate charters;
(2) It constitutes a legitimate exercise of the police power
of the State.
The court rejected both contentions of plaintiff and sustained the law as an exercise of the power over plaintiff's
charter; and, adverting to the objection that the requirement of semi-monthly payments was an unconstitutional interference with interstate commerce, the court said (p. 123):
"It is to be observed that it [the law] is not in conflict with
any legislation by Congress, nor does it affect interstate
commerce directly." And, exhibiting the extent of the
operation of the law, it was fuyther said, "It relates to the
wages of railway servants employed wholly within the
State of New York as well as to the wages of those whose
duties take them from this State into others. The subject is one upon which Congress has not undertaken to act."
How far the reserved power of the State over the charters of its corporations was helped out by its police power,
the court gave no indication. Indeed, it may be said that
in its reference to the reserved power in reviewing the
decisions of other States, the sole ground of its decision
was the possession and exercise of such power by the State.
The court said (p. 127):
"There is an irreconcilable conflict in the decisions in
different jurisdictions as to the constitutional validity of
labor legislation fixing the medium and time of payment
of the wages of those who work for corporations. After
the foregoing review of the leading cases, I find no difficulty
in sustaining our New York statute on the ground which
has been stated. It does not confiscate corporate property directly or indirectly. It does impose a greater future
burden upon the corporations to which it rMelates; but that,
I think, is within the power of the legislature to the -extent to which it has been exercised in this case."

ERIE R. R. CO. v. WILLIAMS.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The legislation having been passed in the exercise of
the reserved power of the State, is it valid, notwithstanding
it prohibits both the plaintiff and its employ~s from contracting against its provisions? Plaintiff asserts the negative and attempts to sustain the assertion by a very comprehensive argument in which a number of decisions of
this court and of other courts are cited and reviewed.
They illustrate by various instances the fundamental and
indisputable principle that personal liberty includes the
power to make contracts. But liberty of making contracts
is subject to conditions in the interest of the public welfare,
and which shall prevail-principle or condition-cannot
be defined by any precise and universal formula. Each
instance of asserted conflict must be determined by itself,
and it has been said many times that each act of legislation haS the support of the presumption that it is an exercise in the interest of the public. The burden is on him
who attacks the legislation, and it is not sustained by declaring a liberty of contract. It can only be sustained by
demonstrating that it conflicts with some constitutional
restraint or that the public welfare is not subserved by
the legislation. The legislature is, in the first instance, the
judge of what is necessary for the public welfare, and a
judicial review of its judgment is limited. The earnest
conflict of serious opinion does not suffice to bring it within
the range of judicial cognizance. C., B. & Q. R. R. Co. v.
McGuire, 219 U. S. 549, 565; German Alliance Insurance
Co. v. Kdnsas, ante, page 389.
In considering the competency of the legislative judgment and the power the courts have to review it, we may
inquire, what is here complained of? What does the Labor
Law of New York do that seriously affects the liberty of
plaintiff? It requires cash payments. That requirement
is not now resisted. It requires semi-monthly payments.
Plaintiff now pays monthly. The extent of its grievance,
therefore, is two payments a month instead of one, with

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

the consequence of expense and inconvenience. It is
hardly necessary to say that cost and inconvenience (different words, probably, for the same thing) would have
to be very great before they could become an element in
the consideration of the right of a State to exert its reserved
power or its police power. New York & N. E. R. R. Co. v.
Bristol, 151 U. S. 556; United States v. Un. Pac. Ry. Co.,
160 U. S. 1; St. Louis, I. M. &c. Ry. Co. v. Paul, 173 U. S.
404; Wisconsin &c. R. R. Co. v. Jacobson, 179 U. S. 287.
See also Balt. & Ohio R. R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce
Commission, 221 U. S. 612.
Putting cost and inconvenience to one side, there would
remain only an abstract right. Taking them into consideration they constitute the detriment to which plaintiff
is subjected by not being able to make the forbidden contracts. It may be admitted an advantage is taken away
from plaintiff, or, to put it another way; a burden is imposed upon it. Is it within the power of the State to
impose the burden by virtue of its reserved control over
plaintiff? The question must be answered as if the
requirement of the law was part of the charter of plaintiff,
and in such case it would seem certainly that a liberty of
contract could not be asserted against it, for it would be a
part of the contract accepted and binding on plaintiff,-a
liberty exercised precluding a liberty to be exercised,-and
it would seem necessarily to be the very essence of the
right of amendment reserved that what could have been
put in the charter originally, whatever its consequence, can
be added to the charter, whatever the consequence of the
addition. Of course, we mean what was and is competent
for the State to impose, and we are brought to the narrow
question whether a regulation of the time and manner of
payment by a railroad of its employs is within the competency of the State to require. A negative answer is
contended for, the argument urged to support the contention being that a contract right of dealing with its em-

ERIE R. R. CO. iv. WILLIAMS.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ploy~s is conferred by plaintiff's charter, which right the
Labor Law takes away and plaintiff is deprived of property
because of the expense to which it is subjected, which, it is
contended, is not justified by a corresponding public
benefit. It would seem, therefore, to be the contention of
plaintiff that it acquired by its charter a vested right to'
deal with its employ6s according to its own judgment and,
as alleged in its answer, that it was vested with its powers,
as a railroad and to contract and be contracted 'with, for
the employment of persons to conduct its operations and.
enterprises at and for such wages and upon such terms bf
payment as might or should be agreed on. In other words,
it is the contention that the rights asserted are of the very
essence of its grant, giving it the rights of a natural person
and investing it with the sarme immunity from control
whether exercised under the police power or the reserved
power of amendment. We may, in answering the contention, put aside the rights of natural persons and the
rights which might exist under a constitution which did
not reserve control in the State. The effect of the control
reserved was to make plaintiff, from the moment of
creation, subject to the legislative power of alteration and,
if deemed expedient, of absolute extinguishment as a
corporate body. Spring Valley Water Works v. Schottler,
110 U. S. 347, 352. And whether expedient or not, is a
question for the legislature, not for the courts. Id. 353.
In other cases the effect of the reserved power of amendment is said to be to make arpy alteration or amendment
of a charter subject to it which will not defeat or substantially impair the object of the grant or any right vested
under the grant. Lake Shore &c. Ry. Co. V. Smith, 173
U. S. 684, 697, 698. Looker v. Maynard, 179 U. S. 46, 52.
Surely the manner or time of paying employ6s does not
come within such limitation. It is, a matter of pure
administration, not comparable in its burden to those
sustained in the cases which we have already cited.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

In St. Louis, Iron Mt. & S. Ry. Co. v. Paul, supra, a law
of Arkansas was sustained as an exercise of the reserved
power of the State which required a railroad company
discharging with or without cause, or refusing to employ,
any servant or employS, to pay him his unpaid wages,
then earned at the contract rate, without abatement or
deduction, to the date of his discharge, and providing that
if the same' be not paid on such day, then, as a penalty for
non-payment, his wages shall continue at the same rate
until paid.
In New York & N. E. Railroad Co. v. Bristol, supra, the
railroad company was required to remove various grade
crossings at its own expense.
In the Sinking Fund Cases, 99 U. S. 700, legislation
requiring the creation of a sinking fund was sustained under the reserved power of amendment, and, after reviewing
the cases, the court said (p. 721) "that whatever rules
Congress might have prescribed in the original charter
for the government of the corporation in the administration of its affairs, it retained the power to establish by
amendment." Many other cases might be cited, but to
cite them would be to accumulate authorities on a proposition which might well be taken at this late day to be incontestable. Indeed, the contention of defendant that
the legislation under review might be supported under the
police power of the State has justification in cases.
In Knoxville Iron Co. v. Harbison, 183 U. S.. 13, a law of
the State of Tennessee which required all persons and
corporations to redeem in money evidences of indebtedness given to their laborers or employ~s, in the hands of
their laborers, employ6s, or a bona fide holder, came up
for consideration. The Knoxville Coal Company paid
its employ~s in cash and in coal orders. It made money
by the practice. There was no proof of an express agreement between the company and its employ6s that the
orders should be paid only in coal, except as implied from

ERIE R. R. CO. v. WILLIAMS.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the ,Court.

accepting the orders, and no proof of an implied agreement
except as drawn from the face of the orders and the custom
of the company. There was no proof of compulsion except
that if the emplby~s did not accept pay in Coal orders they
had to submit to be in arrears about twenty days, but the
company paid in coal orders the whole wages due at the
end of each month. Harbison purchased a number of the
coal orders and demanded their payment in cash, which
was refused. He then brought suit against the company,
relying on the statute. The Supreme Court gave him
judgment, which was affirmed by this court onthe ground
that the law was a proper exercise of the police power of
the State. This court, by Mr. Justice Shiras, commenting
on St. Louis, Iron Mt. & S. Ry. Co. v. Paul, supra, said

that in that case stress was laid upon the reserved power of
amendment which the State had (p. 22), "but it is also
true that, inasmuch as the right of contract is not absolute
in respect to every matter, but may be subjected to the
restraints demanded by the safety and welfare of the
State and its inhabitants, the police power of the State
may, within defined limitations, extend over corporations
outside of and regardless of the power to amend charters.
Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Railroad v. Matthews, 174

The ruling was followed in Dayton Coal & Iron
Company v. Barton (183 U S. 23), although the Dayton
Company was not incorporated under the laws of Tennessee.
In McLean v. Arkansas, 211 U. S. 539, a law of ArkanU. S. 96."

sas required, where miners were employed at quantity
rates, and more than ten were employed, that they should
be paid by the weight of coal mined by them as it comes
from the mine and before it was passed over a screen of
any kind. One of the grounds of attack on the law was
thit it was an unwarranted. invasion of the right of contract secured by the Fourteenth Amendment, the argu-ment being that the laW prevented the miners from con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

tracting for wages upon the basis of screened coal instead
of the weight of the coal as originally produced at the
mine. The law was sustained as a proper exercise of the
police power of the State.
It is, however, contended by plaintiff that the law under
review cannot be sustained either as an exertion of the
police power or as an alteration of the charter of plaintiff
unless the court can say from a comparison of the systems
of payment-monthly and semi-monthly-that the former
affects adversely the general welfare or public good and the
latter "remedies that evil or condition and of itself does not
constitute an unjust burden upon the employer." But
whether the law imposes an unjust burden depends upon
its validity, and whether the public welfare is subserved
by one system or the other is, as we have said, in the first
instance, for the legislature to determine, and its judgment will not be reviewed .unless "unmistakably and
palpably in excess of legislative power." McLean v.
Arkansas, supra, 211 U. IS. p. 547. The Labor Law of
New York cannot be so characterized.
There are certainly advantages of cash payment over
deferred payments, and an advantage to those who .work
for a living of a ready purchasing power for their needs
over the use of credit. This is found as a fact by the trial
court, and even if there is no affirmative evidence of it, it
is the expression of experience.
The next contention of plaintiff is that the cost of paying
twice a month is a direct burden on interstate commerce.
It is not necessary to review and compare the. cases in
which this court has pointed out the difference between a
direct and indirect burden of state legislation upon interstate commerce or the power of the States in the absence
of regulation by Congress. It is enough to say in the
present case that Congress has not acted, and there is not,
therefore, that impediment to the law of the State; nor
is there prohibition in the character of the burden. The

VALDES v. LARRINAGA.
233 U. S.

Syllabus.

effect of the provision is merely administrative and so
far as it affects interstate commerce it does so indirectly.
The Court of Appeals, as we have seen, considered that the
law relates to the wages of railway servants employed
wholly within the State and to those whose duties take
them from the State into other States. In other words, did
not make it applicable to those employed in other States,
and it therefore does not embrace all of the employ6s of
plaintiff, and the contention based upon its application to
all is without foundation.
The last contention of plaintiff is that the statute
violates the Fourteenth Amendment, "in that it denies to
the employs of the Erie Railroad Company the equal
protection of the laws." Considerable argument is made
to support the contention, in which a comparison is made
between the employ~s, mechanics, workmen and laborers,
to whom the law applies, and the other employ~s of
the company, and it is declared that all, if any, suffer from
monthly payments and all are entitled, therefore, to receive the benefit of semi-monthly payments. But, as we
have said, employs are not complaining, and whatever
rights those excludeci may have, plaintiff cannot invoke.
Judgment affirmed.

VALDES v.. LARRINAGA.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOIL PORTO RICO.

No. 343.

Argued May 4, 1914.--mDecided May 25, 1914.

Although the contract for participation in profits involved in this case
may not have created a partnership, as defined under § 1567, Civil
Code of Porto Rico, it gave the party entitled to participate an

equitable interest in the property involved which attached specifically
VOL. ccxxxii-45

