FRANKLIN v. -LYNCH.
233 U.. S.

Statement of the Case.

FRANKLIN v. LYNCH.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
OKLAHOMA.
No. 553. Submitted February 25, 1914.-Decided April 6, 1914.
The act of April 21, 1904, c. 1402, 33 Stat. 189, 204, removing restrictions on alienation of landii of non-Indian allottees of the Five

Civilized Tribes, did not authorize members of the tribes to sell future acquired property.
Under Rev. Stat., § 2116, no conveyance of an Indian tribe shall be
valid except as authorized by treaty, and individual members cannot sell future allotments, as, prior to allotment, there is no individual
interest in tribal lands or vendible interest in any particular tract.
Gritts v. Fisher, 224. U. S. 640.
While the act of April 21, 19(4, removed some restrictions, it did not
permit either members of the tribes or non-Indians to sell mere
floats or expectancy.
One who has applied for and been admitted to membership in an Indian.
tribe by intermarriage cannot thereafter claim the rights of an Indian
as to receiving allotment and the rights of a white non-Indian as to
alienation; and all parties (lealing with such a person do so with
knowledge of the restrictions on alienation imposed by the act of
1902.
As § 642 of Mansfield's Digest, providing that title to subsequently
acquired property conveyed shall inure to the benefit of the grantee,
was only extended to Indian Territory so far as applicable arid not
inconsistent with any law of Congress; it has no effect on titles to
allotments which, under the; act of 1902, cannot be affected by conveyance before patent.
37 Oklahoma, 60, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the effect
intermarried Choctaw to an allotment
acquired, and the construction of acts
ing the right of allotteis to convey,
opinion.

of the deed of an,
to be subsequently
of Congress affectare stated in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

Mr. H. A. Ledbetter for plaintiff in error.
Mr. S. T. Bledsoe for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE LAMAR

delivered the opinion of the court.

Emmer Sisney, a white woman and widow of a Choctaw
Indian, applied in 1899 to be admitted as a member of the
tribe by intermarriage. Her application not having been
granted she employed Franklin & Apple, attorneys at
law, to secure her enrollment. As compensation for their
services she, on October 16, 1905, by warranty deed conveyed to them her "entire interest in any and all lands,
exclusive of homestead, which might finally be allotted to
her by the Commissioners of the Five Civilized Tribes."
This deed was duly recorded together with an instrument
by which she agreed to make conveyance when the land
was actually allotted. Thereafter, on November 26, 1906,
Emmer Sisney was enrolled as an intermarried citizen of
the Choctaw Nation. She promptly made her selection
and on December 12, 1906, received a patent to land, all of
which, except the homestead, she, on Deoember 14, 1906,
sold for value to Lynch & Simmons. Thereupon Franklin,
who had acquired Apple's interest under the deed of 1905,
brought this suit to have the deed to Lynch & Simmons
cancelled as a cloud on his title. The District Court of
Oklahoma entered a decree in his favor. That judgment
was reversed by the Supreme Court, 37 Oklahoma, 60,
and the case is here on a writ of error to review that
ruling.
Both parties claim title to land allotted
in December,
1906, to a. white member of the Choctaw Tribe. The
plaintiff has the older warranty deed, but the defendants
contend that as it was signed before allotment, the deed
was void by virtue of the provisions in the Supplemental
Agreement of July 1, 1902 (23 Stat. 641, 642, §§ 15 and 16),

FRANKLIN v. LYNCH.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that "lands allotted to members and freedmen [of the Choctaw and Chickasaw Tribesj shall not be affected
by any deed, debt, or obligation of any character contracted
prior to the time at which said land may be alienated under
this Act, nor shall said lands be sold except
(§16) after issuance of patent."
To this the plaintiff replies that, as Emmer Sisney was a
white woman, this prohibition against sale by her had
been repealed by the act of April 21, 1904 (c., 1402, 33
Stat. 189, 204) which provides that "all restrictions upon
the alienation of lands- of all, allottees of either of the
Five Civilized Tribes of Indians who are not of Indian
blood

*

.

.,

are,

.

..

.

hereby removed."

. That statute did not authorize white members of the
tribe to sell future acquired property, but did permit nonIndian allottees to sell what had been actually assigned to
them in severalty. (Cf. 34 Stat., § 19, p. 144.) The distinction between a member and an allottee is not verbal
but was made in recognition of a definite policy in reference
to these lands. The Revised Statutes (§2116) declare
that no conveyance from an Indian tribe shall be of any
validity in law or in equity unless authorized by treaty.
As the tribe could not sell, neither could the individual
members, for they had neither an undivided interest in the
tribal land nor vendible interest in any particular tract.
Gritts v. Fisher, 224 U. S.640. But in pursuance of the
legislation following the Report of the Dawes Commission (Choate v. Trapp, 224 U. S.665), provision was
made for dividing and distributing the tribal land in
severalty among the members of the tribe. But, recognizing the probability of improvident and hasty sales being
made, Congress provided that the land could not be sold
until after the patent had actually issued, and even then
only one-quarter could be sold in one year, three-quarters
in three years, and the balance in five years. The act
of 1904, relied on by plaintiff, removed some of the re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

strictions and perntted those members of the tribe, who
were not of Indian blood, to sell land after it had been
actually allotted in severalty. But it did not permit even
a non-Indian to sell a mere float or expectancy, since he
would not likely receive the full value of what thereafter
might be patented to him.

The plaintiff further contends that ever if the deed was
inoperative when made, yet as Emmer Sisney was a white
woman she had the capacity of a white person of full age
to convey an expectancy, so that when she acquired title
in 1906 it inured to the benefit of Franklin and Apple, as
the grantees under the deed of 1905. But the trouble
with this contention is that Emmer Sisney cannot be
treated as a white woman, for the purpose of conveying
an expectancy, and an Indian for the purpose of securing
an allotment. When she applied to be enrolled as a citizen
of the Choctaw Nation she, ipso facto, subjected herself
to the restriction upon alienation of Indian land imposed
upon all members of the tribe. All who dealt with her,
as to land thereafter allotted to her, were charged with
knowledge that the act of 1902 declared that such land
should not be affected by any contract made before allotment. The deed of 1905 was therefore a nullity and did
not esiop her or her assigns from showing that it had been
made in direct violation of the statute. For, tb permit
an Indian's deed, void when made, to operate as a conveyance of title to lands subsequently allotted, would be
to disregard the express language of the statute and defeat
the protective purposes for which the law was passed.
Starr v. Long Jim, 227 U. S. 613, 624. The result is not
changed by the provision of § 642 of Mansfield's Digest
that 'if a person, without title, shall convey real estate and
subsequently acquire title the legal or equitable estate
afterwards acquired shall immediately pass to the grantee
as if the estate had been in the grantor at the time of the
The chapter of Mansfield's Digest of
conveyance.'

TEVIS v. RYAN.
233 U. S.

Syllabus.

Arkansas Law containing this section was extended (32
Stat. 841) to the Indian Territory "so far as the same may
be applicable and not inconsistent with any law of Congress." It has no effect here because it is inconsistent
with the act of 1902 which declared that Indian land
should not be affected by a deed made before patent.
The deed to Franklin having been made before allotment
was void, and the judgment is
Affirmed.

TEVIS v. RYAN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
ARIZONA.

TERRITORY OF

No. 189. -Argued January 23, 26, 1914.-Decided April 6, 1914.
Covenants in a contract between individuals who control a corporation,
in regard to disposition of its outstanding stock, construed in this
case to import a personal responsibility on the parties and not on
the corporation.
In this case, the cause of action being not on the contract alone, but
also upon alleged fraudulent conduct, evidence as to oral declarations
of the defendant was admissible to show the misrepresentations
alleged as basis for the claim of fraudulent inducement to make the
contract and fraudulent use of the property entrusted to the defendant thereunder.
Notice to either of joint contractors is notice to both.
A written paper offered and admitted as evidence of a demand and not
objected to as coming too late is not inadmissible because it contains
other matter. The proper course for the party objecting is to ask an
instruction limiting the effect of the paper to the demand or else to
base the objection on its coming too late.
A contract, providing that in a specified contingency the interest
of the parties surrendering control to the other party shall revest
in them in the same proportion and ratio as they held on the making of the contract, was properly construed as contemplating that

VOL. ccxxxiii-18

