LEWIS- v. FRICK.
233 U. S.

Syllabus.

this provision. And we are not disposed to lightly disturb the decision of a territorial Supreme Court turning
so largely, as this does, upon the local practice. Phenix
Ry. Co. v. Landis, 231 U. S. 578, 579; Work v. United
Globe Mines, 231 U. S. 595, 599; Montoya v. Gonzales, 232
U. S. 375, 376.
We have dealt with all the questions that appear to
have been raised in the Supreme Court of the Territory.
Others we need not notice. Gila Valley Ry. Co. v. Hall,
232 U. S. 94, 98.
Judgment affirmed.

LEWIS v. FRICK, UNITED STATES IMMIGRATION INSPECTOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 208. Argued January 28, 1914.-Decided April 6, 1914.
Where an alien enters this country more than once, the period of three
years from entry prescribed by §§ 20 and 21 of the Alien Immigration
Law runs not from the date when he first entered the country, but
from the time of his entry under conditions within the prohibitions
of the act. Lapina v. Williams, 232 U. S. 78.
Where, as in this case, there wai; evidence sufficient to justify the
Secretary of Commerce and Labor in concluding that the alien was
within the prohibitions of the Alien Immigration Act, and the hearing was fairly conducted, the decision of the Secretary is binding
upon the courts.
Under § 2 of the Alien Immigration Act of 1907 as amended in 1910,
it is an offense for any person, citizen or alien, to bring into this
country an alien for the purposes of prostitution, and any alien so
doing or attempting to do may be excluded on entry or deported
after entry.
A conviction under § 3 of the Alien Immigration Act is not necessary

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

for exclusion on entry or deportation after entry of an alien who has
brought into this country an alien for the purpose of prostitution,
nor is a verdict of acquittal of a charge under § 3 res judicataas to a
proceeding before the Secretary under § 2 of the act.
There is a'distinction between a criminal prosecution and an administrative inquiry by an Executive Department or subordinate officers
thereof. Zakondite v. Wolf, 226 U. S. 272.
The destination of an alien whose deportation after a second entry is
based on § 2 of the Alien Immigration Act is to be. determined in the
light of §j 20, 21 and 35 of the act and-is not controlled by the factitious circumstance of his going to a contiguous country to obtain the
alien brought in for purposes of prostitution. The act admits of his
being returned to the country whence he came when he first entered
the Uhited States.
Quxre, whether the act leaves any room for discretion on the part of
the .Secretary; and whether that part of a deportation order determining destination of the alien is open to inquiry on habeas corpus.

195 Fed. Rep. 693, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the construction of the provisions of the Alien Immigration Act in regard to deporta-,
tion of undesirable aliens, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Guy W. Moore, with whom Mr. FredericS. Florian,
Mr. Philip T. Van Zile and Mr. H. P. Wilson were on the
brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Wallace for the United
States.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
Petitioner is an alien and a natiye of Russia. He came
thence to this country, entering at the port of New York,
in the month of September, 1904, lived in or near New
York City until March, 1910, then removed to Detroit,
Michigan, and has since made that city his home. On
November 17, 1910, he crossed the river from Detroit
to Windsor, Canada, and brought back with him into the
United States a woman, avowed by him to be his wife, but

LEWIS v. FRICK.
233 U. S.

Opinion' of the Court.

whose actual status was questioned, as will appear. A few
days later he was arrested upon a warrant from the
Department of Commerce and Labor, issued under the
Immigration Act of February 20, 1907, as amended
March 26, 1910, and after a hearing conducted by an
inspector, the Secretary, on February 14, 1911, found
"That said alien is a member of the excluded classes, in
that he . .
procured, imported and brought into
the United States a woman for an immoral purpose," etc.,
and thereupon ordered that he be deported to the country
whence he came, to wit, Russia.
Meanwhile, he was indicted in the United States District Court for a violation of § 3 of the Act, the charge being that on the occasion above referred to he knowingly
imported an alien woman from a foreign country for an
immoral purpose, to wit, illicit concubinage and cohabitation. The trial of the indictment resulted, on March 23,
1911, in a verdict of not guilty.
On April 13th petitioner, being in custody under the
deportation warrant, sued out a writ of habeas corpus'from
the United States Circuit Court. Appended to his petition
for the writ was a copy of the record of his examination by
the inspector, including the testimony and a list of exhibits
but not the exhibits themselves. In his answer the
immigration inspector set up the warrant of deportation
as his authority for detaining petitioner, and recited the
arrest and examination, and the finding of the Secretary
of Commerce and Labor.
The Circuit Court held that there was no authority. in
the immigration law for deporting an alien because he had
imported a woman for immoral purposes; that such importation might be fully proved, or, indeed, might be
admitted by the alien, and still the Department of Commerce and Labor would be without jurisdiction to deport;
that it had'such jurisdiction only under § 3 of the Act, and
only in case of conviction; that because by § 3 Congress

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

provided that where the woman imported is an alien and
the person importing is an alien, a felony is committed,
and the person convicted of this felony may be deported,
therefore under the ordinary rules of statutory construction it must be held that out of the general class covered
by § 2 Congress had selected a particular class named in
§ 3, and subjected it to a severe punishment, but in
connection therewith had limited the right to deport to
cases where there was a conviction. That the right to
prosecute criminally and the right to deport are inconsistent as concurrent rights, and cannot both be exercised
at the same time; and that Congress saw the necessity of
making the proceedings successive, and clearly made the
second step depend upon the result of the first. Hence,
an order was made for the discharge of petitioner. 189
Fed. Rep. 146.
Upon appeal, the Circuit Court of Appeals reversed
this
judgment, 195 Fed. Rep. 693, holding that the power to
deport an alien existed under §§ 2 and 2i of the act,
irrespective of § 3; and further that the right to deport
in this case could bb found in § 3 in connection with § 21,
without regard to conviction or acquittal under § 3. The
court also held that the acquittal of Lewis was not res
judicata of the present proceeding, and that since there
was evidence tending to support the finding of the Secretary of Commerce and Labor respecting the bringing in of
the woman for the purpose of prostitution, that finding was
conclusive. And, finally, it sustained the deportation of
petitioner to Russia rather than to Canada, holding that
the former was "the country whence he came," within the
meaning of the'act.
The provisions tkat are especially pertinent are set
forth in the margin. 1
"An Act To regulate the iminigration of aliens into the United

States," approved February 20, 1907, c. 1134, 34 Stat. 898, as amended
by act of March 26, 1910, c. 128, 36 Stat. 263.

LEW]:S v. FRICK.
233 U. S.

295

Opinion of the Court.

The decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals is attacked
here on several grounds. The first is based upon the fact
that the alien had an established domicile and residence
in the United States dating from September 20, 1904,
having obtained his admission into the country legally, and
maintained a domicile here continuously from the date
"SEc. 2. That the following classes of aliens shall be excluded from
admission into the United States
.
. persons who procure or
attempt to"bring in prostitutes or women or girls for the purpose of
prostitution or for any other immoral purpose.
"SEC. 3. That the importation into the United States of any alien
for the purpose of prostitution Dr for any other immoral purpose is
hereby forbidden; and whoever shall, directly or indirectly, import, or
attempt to import, into the United States, any alien for the purpose
of prostitution or for any other immoral purpose, . . . shall, in
every such case be deemed guilty of a felony, and on conviction thereof
be imprisoned not more than ten years and pay a fine of not more than
five thousand dollars. . . . Any alien who shall be convicted under
any of the provisions of this section shall, at the expiration of his sentence, be taken into custody and returned to the country whence he
came, or of which he is a subject or a citizen in the manner provided
in sections twenty and twenty-one of this act.
"SEc. 20. That any alien who shall enter the United States in violation of law, . . . shall, upon the warrant of the Secretary of Commerce and Labor, be taken into custody and deported to the country
whence he came at any time within three years after the date of his
entry into the United States.
.
"SEc. 21. That in case the Secretary of Commerce and Labor shall
be satisfied that an alien has been !ound in the United States in violation of this Act, or that an alien is subject to deportation under the
provisions of this Act or of any law of the United States, he shall cause
such alien within the period of three years after landing or entry
therein to be taken into custody and returned to the country whence
he came, as provided by section twenty of this Act .
..
"SEC. 35. The deportation of aliens arrested within the United
States after entry and found to be illegally therein, provided for in this
Act, shall be to the trans-Atlantic or trans-Pacific ports from which
said aliens embarked for the United States; or, if such embarkation was
for foreign contiguous territory, to the foreign port at which said aliens
embarked for such territory."

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.,

233 U. S.

of his entry until the time of his arrest; and it is insisted
that the fact of his having crossed the river into Cinada,
even though it was done with the object of bringing a
woman into this country for the purpose of prostitution,
did not bring him within the reach of the Immigration Act
or subject him to the summary .procedure therein prescribed.
This question is settled adversely to the contention of
petitioner by our recent decision in Lapina v. Williams,
232 U. S. 78. That case arose under the act of February 20,
4907, while this arises under the same act as amended
March 26, 1910. But the changes are not such as to affect
the authority of that decision upon the present point.
In.
Lapina v. Williams it did appear that the alien had
practiced prostitution for many-years before her temporary
departure from the country, and that she not only returned with the intent to continue the practice but did
almost immediately engage in it, and continued it until
her arrest under the provisions of the Immigration Act.
But the real ground of decision was that Congress in the
act of 1903 sufficiently expressed, and in the act of 1907
reiterated, the purpose of extending the prohibition against
the admission of aliens of certain classes, and the mandate
for their deportation, to all aliens within the descriptive
terms o'f the excluding clause, irrespective of any qualification arising out of a previous residence or domicile in this
country. This view was' based (a) upon the legislative
history of the act of 1903 (from which the material provisions of the 1907 act were taken), which was a rednactment of previous laws, but with the deliberate omission
of the word "immigrant" and of certain other qualifying
phrases that had been construed by the courts as giving
so limited meaning to the word "alien" as not to include
aliens previously resident in this country and who had
temporarily departed with the intention of returning;
(b) upon the clear language of tht excluding clause of § 2

LEWIS v,.
FRICK.
233 U. S.

.297

Opini6n of the Court.

of the act of 1907 (quoted in full, 232 U. S. 91); (c) upon
the fact that none of the excluded classes (with the possible
exception of contract-laborers) would be any less undesirable if previously domiciled -in. the United States;
and (d) upon-the fact that the section contains its own
specific provisos and limitations, which, upon familiar
principles, tend to negative any other and implied exception.
We hold, therefore, that th-e fact that the petitioner,
Lewis, had been domiciled for six years or more in this
-country, he remaining still an alien, did not change his
status so as to exempt him from the operation of the
Immigration Act; and that if he departed from the country, even for a brief space of time, and on reentering
brought into the country a woman for the purpose of
prostitution or other immoral purpose, he subjected himself to the operation of the clauses of. the Act that relate
to the exclusion and deportation of aliens, the same as if
he had had no previous residence or domicile in this
country. In short, the period of three years from entry,
prescribed by sections twenty and twenty-one, runs not
from the date when the alien first entered the country,
but from the time of the prohibited entry; that is to say,
in the present case, the entry made by the alien when
bringing in the woman.
The next question is whether there was sufficient evidence to fairly sustain the finding of the Secretary of
Commerce and Labor to the effect that petitioner did on
November 17, 1910, import and bring into the United
States a woman for an immoral purpose. Upon this
question, petitioner's contention was and is, that the
woman is in fact his wife. He testified that he married her
in Warsaw shortly before he came from Russia to this
country, and that when he brought her across the river
from Windsor he intended that" he and she should live
together in Detroit as husband and wife. The conten-

OCTOBER' TERM, 1913.

Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

tion of respondent was and is, that the story of the marriage was a pure fabrication, resorted to in the effort to
conceal the fact that the woman was a prostitute and
imported by petitioner for immoral purposes. There is
'much in the evidence to support this view. Petitioner
admitted that his real name was not Lewis, but, Prezysuskier, and his "other name"' was, Nossek; that he first used
the name of Lewis after coming to this country; that his
father's namq was Chaskel Prezysuskier; that he knew his
alleged wife as "Leah," and did not know her other name,
if any; that he knew her father as "Isaac," but did not
know whether he had any other name; that two friends
were present at the ceremony, but he could not remember
their names; that he lived with the woman in Warsaw
for five or six months, and then separated from her because
he heard stories of improper conduct on her part, and that
he afterwards heard she had' had children before the
marriage. Being questioned concerning his life in New
York he professed himself unable to give the names of
several persons among those with whom he said he had
come in contact, aiid who could presumably have been
called either to corroborate or to contradict his testimony.
He declared that he had not seen his alleged wife since
coming to America until the occasion when he met her at
Windsor. Being asked "How did you happen to meet her
at that time?" he answered as follows: "I was home not
working one day and Berman comes up and asks for me
and I don't know how he got my address and I was surprised that a strange man should ask for' my name but my
cousin, Mrs. Newman, told him he should come back at
night when I got home from work and he came back and
said 'I have regards for you' and he said, 'Are you Lewis'
and I said 'Yes' and he asked me' questions, if I was
ever in Warsaw and I said 'Yes,' and he said, 'I have
regards from your wife' and I pretended to say that I
haven't got any, because I kept myself single, but still

LEWIS v.. FRICK.
233 V. S.

Opinion of the Court.

when he mentioned the name I knew what it was and I
said, 'Where is she, what does she want of me' and he
said 'She is not here, she is in Canada, but I will let you
know when she gets here.' On the 17th I went to work in
the morning and at dinner time when I got back Mr. Berman was there waiting for me. I said, 'What is the matter'
and he said, 'I received a telegram that my wife and your
wife are coming here and I want you to come over with me
to Windsor and meet them,' and I said, 'She will come
over to the Immigration Office they should send for me
over there and she could get out.' Well he said it was
better for me to come over there, 'For you know how a
woman is'; he said, 'She might make you trouble' and I
didn't think about it, so I went there and met her and I
went over to Windsor and stood there 15 or 20 minutes and
got a train to the station at Windsor and met her there
but very cool and came over here to the ,Immigration
Office."
The story is extraordinary. How it happened that the
alleged wife, who had known him as Prezysuskier in Warsaw, was able through the good offices of an entire stranger
to identify him as Lewis, in Detroit, more than six years
later, was not explained. The alleged husband's readiness
to accept her is equally suspicious. There were other circumstances tending to discredit the story of the marriage.
And if that story fell, the inference of an unlawful purpose was irresistible. It should be mentioned that the
exhibits introduced upon the examination on which the
warrant of deportation was issued are not included in the
record; but it does appear that among them was a statement made by the alien at police headquarters in Detroit
on November 21, 1910. Were there doubt whether the
testimony itself, without the documentary evidence, would
support the action of the Secretary of Commerce and
Labor, we should be inclined to say that a court ought
not to set aside that action without at least requiring the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

production of the exhibits that were presented to the
Secretary. But, without regard to them, enough appears
to show that he was fully justified in concluding as a
matter of fact that the whole story of the marriage in
Warsaw was a fabrication, and that in truth Lewis went
from Detroit to Windsor upon information from which
he inferred that the woman was an alien and a prostitute,
willing to accompany him to Detroit for an immoral
purpose, and that he brought her to Detroit for that
purpose.
This being so, and there being no contention that the
hearing was not fairly conducted, the finding of the
Secretary upon the question of fact is binding upon the
courts. Low Wah Suey v. Backus, 225 U. S. 460, 468;
Zakonaite v. Wolf, 226 U. S. 272, 275.
Respecting the construction of the act, we cannot
assent to the view entertained by the Circuit Court.
Section 2 declares that certain classes of aliens shall be
excluded from, admission into the United States, and
among them "persons who procure or attempt to bring
in prostitutes or women or girls for the purpose of prostitution or for any other immoral purpose." This section
applies only where an alien brings in a woman or girl for
the purpose indicated. It does not declare that the
woman or girl need be an alien. Section 3 prohibits the
importation of "any alien" for the purpose of prostitution
or for any other immoral purpose. Of course, in order
to constitute an offense against this section, the person
brought in must be an alien. But the person need not
be a woman or girl. This is clear from the changes made
by Congress in § 3 when amending it in 1910. The
section as it stood in the 1907 act (34 Stat. 898, 899,
c. 1134) forbade and rendered felonious the importation
or attempt to import "any alien woman or girl for the purpose of prostitution, or for any other immoral purpose";
the phrase "alien woman or girl" being repeated in other

LEWIS v* FRICK.
233 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

clauses of the section; and one of the principal changes
made in 1910 (36 Stat. 263, 264, c. 128) was to eliminate
the words "woman or girl," so that now the section pro-.
hibits the importation of "any alien" for the purposes
referred to, and declares that whoever shall import or
attempt to import "any alien for the purpose," etc.,
or shall hold or attempt to hold "any alien" for any such
purpose, etc., or shall keep, etc., in pursuance of such
illegal importation "any alien," shall be deemed guilty
of a felony. The purpose of the amendment is not to be
mistaken. 'Moreover, the offense is made a felony irrespective of whether it is committed by an alien or br a
citizen of this country, the only difference being that by
one of the clauses any alien conyicted under this section is,
after the expiration of his sentence, to be returned to the

country whence he came, or of which he is a subject or a
citizen.
Again, §20 provides: "That any alien who shall enter
the United States in violation of -law" shall be deported
"at any tim, within three years after the date of his
entry into the United, States." This certainly includes
those who enter in violatilon of § 2; indeed, violators of
§ 3 may not have "entered," at all, within the meaning of
the Act.
Consequently, we deem that the' Circuit Court erred
in holding that the Act does not provide for deporting an
alien for the offense of procuring or attempting to bring
in prostitutes, etc., in: the absence of a conviction for the
felony under § 3. Section 2, read in connection with §§ 20
and 21, is not thus conditioned. And, as just now pointed
out, the offense aimed at in § 2 and that which is punishable under § 3 are not the same. In'short, it cannot be
said that out of a general class covered by § 2, Congress
selected the particular class named in § 3, for the latter
class is not entirely included within the former.
We agree with the Circuit Court of Appeals that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

verdict and judgment acquitting petitioner under the indictment does not render the present controversy res
judicata. The issue presented by the traverse of the
indictment was not identical with the matter determined
by the Secretary of Commerce and Labor. And, besides,
the acquittal under the indictment was not equivalent to an affirmative finding of innocence, but merely
to an adjudication that the proof was not sufficient to
overcome all reasonable doubt of the guilt of the accused.
The distinction between a criminal prosecution and an
administrative inquiry by an Executive Department or
subordinate officers thereof has been often pointed out.
Zakonaite v. Wolf, 226 U. S. 272, 275' and cases 'cited;
'Williams v. United States, 186 Fed. Rep. 479.
The fina4 contention is that petitioner should have been
deported to Canada, whence he came upon the occasion
of his unlawful entry into this country, rather than to
Russia, the land of his birth, from which he came six
years earlier. By § 20, the alien is to be "deported to the
country whence he came at any time within three years
after the date of his entry into the United States;" by
§ 21, the Secretary of Commerce and Labor, upon being
satisfied that an alien is subject to deportation, "shall
cause such alien within the priod of three years after
landing or entry therein [within the United States] to be
taken into custody and returned to the country whence
he came, as provided by section twenty of this Act;"
by § 3, an alien convicted thereunder is at the expiration
of his sentence to be "returned to the country whence
he came, or of which he is a subject or a citizen in the
manner provided in sections twenty and twenty-one of
this Act;" and by § 35, "The deportation of aliens arrested within the United States after entry and found to
be illegally therein, provided for in this act, shall be to
the trans-Atlantic or trans-Pacific ports from which said
aliens embarked for the United States; or, if such embarka-

LEWIS v. FRICK.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tion was for foreign contiguous territory, to the foreign
port at which said aliens embarked for such territory."
Petitioner not having been eonvicted under § 3, his
destination is to be determined rather in the light of §§ 20,
21, and 35. And first, we take it to be clear (notwithstanding the peculiar phraseology of § 20) that the three
year period limits only the authority to deport, and does
not affect the determination of the country to which an
alien is to be deported. Respecting this matter; the sections are somewhat lacking in clearness. But, at least,
§ 35 indicates a legislative intent that aliens subject to
deportation shall be taken to trans-Atlantic or transPacific ports, if they came thence, rather than to foreign
territory on this continent, although it may have been
crossed on the way to this country. This was recognized
by Rule 38 of the Immigration Regulations, in force
December 12, 1910.
It is to be noted that the classes of aliens who are subject to deportation are not wholly made up of those who
enter in violation of the law; in some cases cause for deportation may arise after a lawful entry. And in many
cases the unlawfulness of the entry may not be discovered
until afterwards. The theory of the Act, as expressed in
§ 2, is that the undesirables ought to be excluded at the
seaport or at the frontier; but §§ 20, 21, and 35, recognize
that this is not always practicable. Of course, if petitioner's
attempt to bring a woman into the country for an immoral
purpose had been discovered in time, he might have been
physically excluded from entry at Detroit upon his return
froml Windsor. In that event he would naturally have
remained upon Canadian soil. But since his offense was
not discovered in time to permit of his physical exclusion,
so that he becomes subject to the provisions for deportation, his destination ought not to be controlled by the
factitious circumstance that he went into Canada to procure the prostitute. And, upon the whole, it seem to

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

233 U. S.

us that the Act reasonably admits of his being returned to
the land of his nativity, that being in fact "the country
whence he came" when he first entered the United States.
See Lavin v. Le Feve, 125 Fed. Rep. 693, 696; Ex parte
Hamaguchi, 161 Fed. Rep. 185, 190; Ex parte Wong You,
176 Fed. Rep. 933, 940; United States v. Ruiz, 203 Fed.
Rep. 441,.444. We need go no further, and may therefore
leaVe undecided the question whether the Act leaves any
room for discretion on the part of the Secretary of Commerce and Labor.
We have assumed, without deciding, that that part of
the deportation order which determines the destination
of the alien is open to inquiry up0n habeas corpus.
Judgment affirmed.

SINGER SEWING MACHINE COMPANY v. BRICKELL, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE STATE OF
ALABAMA.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ALABAMA.
No. 458.

Argued January 12, 1914.-Decided April 6, 1914.

Where orders are taken in one State for goods to be supplied from
another State, which orders are transmitted to the latter State for
acceptance or rejection, and filled from stock in that State, the
business is interstate commerce and not subject to a state license
tax. Crenshaw v. Arkansas, 22T U. S. 389.
The separate license tax imposed by the statutes of Alabama on the
business of sellingor delivering sewing machines, either in person or
through agents, for each county and for each wagon and team used in
delivering the same is not, as to a corporation having regular stores
established in the different counties to which it sends its goods in
bulk and from which they are sold on orders to be approved by it at

