ITOW & FUSHIMI v. UNITED STATES.

233 U. S.

Syllabus.

which is the necessaw result of what we have said, we
briefly state the considerations which lead us to the conclusion that our duty is in "directing' such judgment to
award interest by way pf damages for delay under the
terms of the second paragraph of Rule 23. It is manifest
on the face of the record that theN'cse was carefully and
fully considered ini both of the courts,\below. In view of
the ruling in the King Case and, of what we have said concerning the conteniions aclvancedtb support the assertion
that the. interpretation of the statute was here involved,
we think the conclusion that the writ of error was prosecuted only for delay is plainly justified and that a
penalty by way 'of damages should be imposed. The
judgment below is therefore affirmed with five per cent.
upon the amount of the judgment in addition to the
interest allowed by law.
Affirmed with interest andfive per cent. damages.

ITOW AND FUSHIMI v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
DIVISION NO. 1, TERRITORY OF ALASKA.

No. 714.

Argued April 8, 1914.-Decided May 11, 1914.

Judicial Code, § 134, governing the right to review cases in the District
of Alaska, changed the general rule of the prior law by taking capital
cases out of the class which could come to this court directly because

they were capital cases and by bringing such cases within the final
reviewing power of the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Ninth Circuit.

Under § 247, Judicial Code, this court has power to review directly the
action of the District Courts of Alaska practically in the same classes
of cases as were provided in § 5 of the Judiciary Act of 1891.

As the record in this case does not show that any reliance was placed,

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

or that any exceptions were based, on the Constitution in the court
below, the assignments are inadequate to give this court jurisdiction
of a direct appeal from the District Court for Alaska in a capital case.
Although under §§ 134 and 247, Judicial Code, the right to direct review on a constitutional question is confined to cases where the question was raised in the court below, this court still has power to pass
upon the question either by certificate from the Circuit Court of
Appeals or by certiorari from this court, if in its judgment the question was of sufficient importance to warrant issuing the writ.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
to review judgments of the District Courts of Alaska in
capital cases and the construction of § 134, Judicial Code,
are stated in the opinion.
Mr.' Assistant Attorney General Adkins, with whom The
Solicitor General and Mr. Karl W. Kirchwey were on the
brief, for the United States.
Mr. J. H. Cobb, for plaintiffs in error, submitted.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
By an indictment found in the court below on the
thirteenth of December, 1912, the plaintiffs in error,
Itow and Fushimi, were charged with having murdered one
Frank Dunn, on the fourteenth day of July, 1912, and to a
verdict of murder and sentence of death against Itow and
of manslaughter and sentence 9f 20 years imprisonment against Fushimi this direct writ of error is prosecuted.
The Government moves to dismiss for want of jurisdiction and at the threshold that motion requires to be disposed of. The crime charged was committed after the
enactment of the Judicial Code and there is no question as
to the applicability of its relevant provisions. By § 134 of

ITOW & FUSHIMI v. UNITED STATES.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that Code governing the right to review cases in the district of Alaska or any division thereof, power is conferred
on the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Ninth.Circuit to,
review, and its judgments in such cases are made final, all
cases including all criminal cases "other than those in
which a writ of error or appeal will lie direct to the Supreme
Court of the United States as provided in Section two hundred and forty-seven." It is obvious that this section
changed the general rule of the prior law by taking capital
cases out of the class which could come because they
were capital cases directly to this court, and by bringing
such cases within the fin:al reviewing power of the Circuit
Court of Appeals of the Ninth Circuit.
Section 247 which, as pointed out in § 134, defines the
cases which are excepted from the general rule provided
by § 134, gives authority to this court to directly review
the action of the District Courts of Alaska "in prize
cases; and in all cases which involve the construction or
application of the Constitution of the United States, or
in which the constitutionality of any law of the United
States or the validity or construction of any treaty made
under its authority is drawn in question, or in which the
constitution or law ofAa State is claimed to be in contravention of the Constitution of the United States."
These provisions being but a re~xpression of the language by which the subject of direct review by this court
was governed as provided in the fifth section of the Judiciary Act of March 3, 1891 (c. 517, 26 Stat. 826, 827),
the settled meaning which was affixed by the decisions of
this court to the provisions as found in the act of 1891
necessarily determine thqN significance of the provisions of
the section under consideration.
In Ansbro v. United States, 159 U. S. 695, where it
became necessary in a criminal case to determine whether
there was a right to come directly to this court from a
Circuit Court of the United States in virtue of the

OCTOBER TERM,, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

provisions of the fifth section of the act of 1891, ,the
court, speaking through Mr. Chief Justice Fuller, said
(p. 697):
"The jurisdiction of this court must be maintained then,
if at all, on the ground that this is a case 'that involves
the construction or application of the Constitution of the
United States,' or 'in which the constitutionality of any
law of the United States is drawn in question.' But we
cannot find that any constitutional question was raised
at the trial. Motions to quash, to instruct the jury to
find for the defendant, for new trial, and in arrest of judgment were made, but in neither of them, so far as appears,
nor by any exception to rulings on the admission or
exclusion of evidence, nor to instructions given or the
refusal of instructions asked, was any suggestion made
that defendant was being denied any constitutional right
or that the law under which he was indicted was unconstitutional. The first time that anything appears upon
that subject is in the assignment of errors, filed February 13, 1895.
"A case may be said to involve the construction or
application of the Constitution of the United States when
a title, right, privilege, or immunity is claimed under that
instrument, but a definite issue in respect of the possession
of the right :must be distinctly deducible. from the record
before the judgment of the court below can be revised on
the ground of error in the disposal of such a claim by its
decision. . . . An assignment of errors cannot be
availed of to import questions into a cause which the
record does not show were raised in the court below and
rulings asked thereon, so as to give jurisdiction to this
court under the 5th%section of the act of March 3, 1891
(c. 517, 26 Stat. 826, 827)."
And the doctrine thus announced has been followed and
applied in many cases. Cornell v. Green, 163 U. S. 75, 79,
80; Mua v. Arlington Hotel Co., 168 U. S. 430, 435;

ITOW & FUSHIMI :v. UNITED STATES.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Cincinnati &c. R. Co. v. Thiebaud, 177 U. S. 615, 619;
Paraisov. UnitedStates, 207 U. S. 368.
The assignments of error relate to these subjects:
1. Error asserted to have been committed by the court
in refusing to allow a continuance pending the arrival of
certain witnesses, thereby it is asserted "denying the
defendant the right to have their counsel make an opening statement to the jury." 2. Error committed by the
court in permitting the jury, with the consent of the accused, to separate after they were selected and empanelled
and sworn. 3. Error by the court in refusing to discharge the jury because of an alleged publication made in
a local newspaper during the trial, although the refusal
of the court was based upon its opinion formed after a
statement by the jurors that they had not seen the publication referred to. 4. Error committed by the court in
admitting in evidence against Fushimi a statement made
by him concerning the crime.
But in the light of the settled rule which we have stated
it is apparent on the face of the record that the assignments are wholly inadequate to give us the power to
directly review since there is nothing whatever directly
or indirectly even inthiating- that the reliance on the
Constitution was stated at the trial below in any form.
It may be fairly presumed under these circumstances
that the direct writ of erTor from this court was sued out
overlooking the fact that by operation of the Judicial
Code the general right to direct review in capital cases
was taken away or that the writ was prosecuted upon the
assumption that the right to a direct review existed in
any case where it was possible in this court to argue as to
the existence of a constitutional right, wholly irrespective
of whether the constitutional questi6n relied upon was
raised and considered in the lower court. But the latter
conception overlooks the conclusively settled rule to
which we have referred that the power to directly review

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

because of a constitutional question obtains only where
such question was involved in the trial court, that is,
was there actually raised. The destructive effect on the
distribution of judicial power made by the act of 1891
which would result from holding that jurisdiction to
directly review obtained in any case because of a constitutional question irrespective of the making of such question in the trial court merely because of the possibility
after completion of the trial below of suggesting for the
first time such question as the foundation for resorting
to direct review, is apparent and finds apt illustration
in this case. Thus, although the accused made no objection, constitutional or otherwise, to the permission given
by the court to the jury to separate, and indeed expressly
assented to such separation, yet as one of the grounds
for direct review by this court it is insisted that as the
Constitution guaranteed a jury trial according to the
course of the common law and permission to separate
could not be granted under that law, therefore the accused
was deprived of a constitutional right.
It is to be observed that confining the right to direct
review because of a constitutional question to cases where
such question was raised in the trial court, that is, was
there involved, does not deprive this court of the ultimate
power to pass upon constitutional questions where it is
necessary to do so, since if such a question not raised in
the trial court germinates or emerges in a Circuit Court of
Appeals, the right of that court to certify affords an opportunity of obtaining a review of the question by this
court, and in the absence of a certification of the question
the authority of this court to grant a writ of certiorari
would enable the same result to be accomplished if in
the judgment of this court the constitutional question was
of sufficient importance to justify the calling into play of
that power.
Dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

