KANSAS CITY RY. v. ANDERSON.
233 U. S.

Syllabus.

remedy provided for a penalty and the limitation of time
of bringing an action is five years under § 1047. It is very
clear that the public wrong is punished by the fines and
punishment prescribed, that the private injuries inflicted
are to be redressed by civil suit, and the amount of recovery is determined by the extent of the injury received
and the elements constituting it. This plaintiff indicates
in his pleading, praying damages in the sum of $25,000
"for the wounding less than mayhem," $25,000, "for
the humiliation, degradation and public ridicule," and
$10,000 "as punitive and exemplary damages."
Judgment affirmed.
KANSAS CITY SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY
v. ANDERSON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS.
No. 319.

Argued March 20, 1914.-Decided April 13, 1914.

A State may impose double damages and an attorney's fee on railway
companies for failure to pay the owner of stock killed within a
reasonable period after demand and award of the jury of the amount
claimed before action commenced; and so held that the double
damage statute of Arkansas is constitutional as applied to cases of
this character.
St. Louis, Iron Mtn. & Southern Ry. Co. v. Wynne, 224 U. S. 8,54,
distinguished, as in that case this statute was declared unconstitutional only as applied to claims where the jury awarded less than the
amount demanded.
A statute is not necessarily void for all purposes because it has been
declared by this court to be unconstitutional as applied to a particular
state of facts; it may be sustained as to another state of facts where
the state court has expressly decided that it should not be construed as applicable to such conditions as would render it unconstitutional if applied thereto.
A state statute imposing double damages and otherwise valid, is not

unconstitutional as denying the equal protection of the laws because

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

233 U. S.

it applies only to railroad companies and not to litigants in general.
The classification is not arbitrary. Seaboard Air Line v. Seegers,
207 U. S. 73.
The States have a large latitude in the policy which they will pursue in
regard to enforcing railroad companies to settle damage claims
promptly and properly. Chi., M. & St. P. Ry. Co. v. Polt, 232 U. S.
165.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under the
Fourteenth Amendment of a statute of Arkansas allowing
double damages and attorney's fee to be awarded against
railway corporations under certain conditions, are stated
in the opinion.
Mr. Samuel W. Moore, with whom Mr. Frank
H. Moore
and Mr. James B. McDonough were on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The record properly presents Federal questions which
may be reviewed here. Act 61, of Arkansas of 1907,
p. 144; Kansas City Southern Ry. Co. v. Anderson, 104
Arkansas, 500; St. L., Iron Mtn. & So. Ry. Co. v. Wynne,
224 U. S. 354.
The Arkansas act which is drawn in question in this
case has been held unconstitutional by this court and is
therefore void for all purposes. Cases supra and Meyer v.
Wells, Fargo & Co., 223 U. S. 298; Yazoo & Miss. R. R.
Co. v. Jackson Vinegar Co., 226 U. S. 217.
The Arkansas act is in conflict with the Fourteenth
Amendment because it denies to defendant the equal
protection of the law. Atchison &c. Ry. Co. v. Matthews,
174 U. S. 96; Atlantic Coast Line Co. v. Mazursky, 216
U. S. 122; Bannon v. State, 49 Arkansas, 167; Connolly v.
Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540; Fidelity Life Asso. v.
Mettler, 185 U. S. 308; Gulf &c. Ry. Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S.
150; Ill. Cent. R. R. Co. v. Crider,91 Tennessee, 489; Kirby's
Digest Arkansas Statutes, §§ 6773, 6782, 7907; Minn. &
St. Louis R. R. Co. v. Beckwith, 129 U. S. 26; Mo. & Nor.

KANSAS CITY RY. v. ANDERSON.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Ark. R. R. Co. v. State, 91 Arkansas, 1; Mo. Pac.Ry. Co. v.
Humes, 115 U. S.512; St. L., I. Mtn. & So. Ry. Co. v. Williams, 49 Arkansas, 492; St. L., I. Mtn. & So. Ry. Co. v.
Wynne, 90 Arkansas, 538; SeaboardAir Line Ry. v. Seegers,
207 U. S.73; Southern Ry. Co. v. Greene, 216 U. S. 400;
Yazoo & Miss. Valley R. Co. v. Jackson Vinegar Co., 226
U. S.217.
This Arkansas act denies to defendant due process of
law. Chi., Mil. & St. P. Ry.Co. v. Polt, 232 U. S. 165; Ex
parte Young, 209 U. S. 123; Mo. Pac. Ry. Co. v. Tucker,
230 U. S. 340.
No appearance or brief filed for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the

court.
Error to review a Judgment of the Supreme Court of
the State of Arkansas affirming a judgment by which
defendant in error was awarded against plaintiff in error
(herein called the railway company) double damages and
attorney's fee for a mare killed by one of the railway
company's trains.
The judgment was recovered under a Statute of the
State which the railway company attacked in the courts
below and attacks here, on the ground that it violates the
due process clause of the Constitution of the United States.
The statute provides that when any stock is killed or
injured by railroad trains running in the State the officers
of the train shall cause the station master or overseer at
the nearest station house to give notice of the fact by
posting and by advertisement, and, on failure to so advertise, the owner shall recover double damages for all stock
killed and not advertised. "And said railroad shall pay
the owner of such stock within thirty days after notice is
served on such railroad by such owner. Failure to do. so
shall entitle said owner to double the amount of damages

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

awarded him by any jury trying such cause, and a reasonable attorney's fee." (Act 61, Acts of Arkansas of
1907, p. 144.)
If a suit be brought after the thirty days have expired
and the owner recover "a less amount of damages than
he sues for, then such owner shall recover only the amount
given him by said jury and not be entitled to recover any
attorney's fee."
For its contention that the act offends the Constitution
of the United States the railway company relies on St.
Louis, Iron Mountain & Southern Ry. Co. v. Wynne,
224 U. S. 354.
In that case, however, there was a demand for $500
damages. The railway company refused to pay it. The
owner sued for $400 and recovered a verdict for that
amount, and the court deeming the statute applicable
gave judgment for double that amount and an attorney's
fee of $50.00. The Supreme Court sustained the judgment against the contention of the railway company that
the statute so applied was repugnant to the due process
clause of the Constitution of the United States. This
court reversed the judgment, holding that so far as the
statute was held to justify the imposition of double
damages where there was demand 'for one sum and an
action and judgment for less, it was'void. The question
was expressly reserved whether such would be the decision
if the recovery corresponded to the demand; in other
words, in the language of the opinion "Where the prior
demand is fully established in the suit following the
refusal to pay." That question is involved in the present
case and we think it is determined by SeaboardAir Line v.
Seegers, 207 U. S. 73, and Yazoo & Miss. R. R. Co. v.
Jackson Vinegar Co., 226 U. S.217. In both cases statutes
(South Carolina and Mississippi) were sustained. Each
provided for a penalty for failure to settle claims after
certain time after demand, the penalty being $50 in one

KANSAS CITY RY. v. ANDERSON.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

statute and in the other $25, in addition to the actual

damages. In the Seegers Case it was said,.p. 78: "It must
be remembered that the purpose of this legislation is not
primarily to enforce the collection of debts, but to compel
the performance of duties which the carrier assumes when
it enters upon the discharge of its public functions."
In the other case it was said, p. 219: the railroad company
"has not been penalized for failing to accede to an
excessive or extravagant pclaim, but for failing to make
reasonably prompt settlement of a claim which upon due
inquiry has been pronounced just in every respect." In
Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co. v. Polt, 232 U. S. 165, a
statute of South Dakota was passed upon which makes a
railroad liable for double damages if, within sixty days
after demand, it does not pay the damage actually sustained for property destroyed by fire communicated from
its locomotive engine. The plaintiff in the case got a
verdict for less than he demanded but for more than the
railroad offered. Judgment for double the amount of the
verdict was entered and sustained by the Supreme Court
of the State. It was reversed by this court, the ruling of
the' Wynne Case, supra, being applied. We said, p. 168:
The case "is not like those in which a moderate penalty
is imposed for failure to satisfy a demand found to be just.
Yazoo & Mississippi Valley R. R. Co. v. Jackson Vinegar
Co., 226 U. S. 217."
It is contended, however, that the statute having been
declared unconstitutional as applied to one state of facts
that properly raises the question, it is void for all purposes.
The contention is based on the assumption that we decided the statute in the Wynne Case to be unconstitutional,
but the ground of the decision was, as we have seen, that
the statute was there applied to a case where the plaintiff in
the action had recovered less than he demanded before
suit. We declined to extend our opinion to a case where
the amount of the judgment corresponded to the demand;

380

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

in other words, declined to pronounce the act entirely
unconstitutional.
In Yazoo & Mississippi Valley R. R. Co. v. Jackson
Vinegar Co., supra, when urged again to extend our
ruling beyond the facts and declare the Mississippi statute
entirely void, we declined to do so, considering it a matter
for the state court to decide "how far parts of it may be
sustained if others fail."
In the case at bar the Supreme Court of the State has
limited the statute and has, indeed, declared that it had
not intended in the Wynne Case to place upon the "statute
a construction that would make it applicable to a case
based upon a state of facts where a demand had been
made before suit for a sum greater than that recovered
upon a trial." And, further, "The construction and application of this statute as made by this court is, therefore,
not such as to render it invalid under the decisions made
by the Supreme Court of the United States."
It is also contended by the railway company that the
statute deprives it of the equal protection of. the laws in
that it singles out railroads and subjects them to the payment of double damages and attorneys' fees when litigants
in general are not subject to the same burdens. The
contention is not tenable. Seaboard Air Line v. Seegers,
supra.
We do not enter into a general discussion of the police
power of the State. As we said in the Polt Case, "the
States have a large latitude in the policy that they will
pursue and enforce," and we do not think that the limit of
their power has been transcended in the present case.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HoLMEs and MR. JUSTICE LAmAR dissent.

