UNITED STATES v. FOSTER.
233 U. S.

Syllabus.

Nor ought such an intention on the part of the legislature
to be presumed, unless it is expressed in the mostclear and
positive terms, and where the language admits of no other
reasonable interpretation." This follows naturally from
the nature of appropriation bills, and the presumption
hence arising is fortified by the rules of the Senate and '
House of Representatives.
The ruling in the' Langston and Minis Cases is not opposed by the cases cited by the Government. In all of
them there was something more than the mere omission
to appropriate a sufficient sum. There were expressions
indicating a broader purpose. In two of them, United
States v. Fisher,109 U. S. 143, and United States v. Mitchell,
109 U. S. 146, it was intimated that the law was only
suspended for the particular -years. In another, Wallace v.
United States, 133 U. S.180, it was held that the appropriation constituted the law which prescribed the compensation of the office. And in all of them the Langston Case was
referred to and not disturbed or modified.
Judgment affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. FOSTER.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.

No. 838.

Argued April 13, 14, 1914.-Decided May 4, 1914.

Where the case is one of statutory construction, consideration of the
statute becomes necessary, f nd if the validity of departmental
regulations is involved, a construction of the statute authorizing the
head of the Department to niake them is also necessary, and this
court has jurisdiction under the Criminal -Appeals Act of 1907 to
review the judgment sustaining a demurrer to the indictment.
,The theory of the act of March 3, 1883, is that every postmaster shall
receive a salary dependent upon and regulated by the amount of
business done at his office as represented by normal and natural-nol
unlawfully induced-sales of stamps.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

233 U. S.

Under § 161, Rev. Stat., authorizing heads of the Executive Departments to prescribe regulations not inconsistent with law, the
Postmaster General has power to prescribe regulations requiring
postmasters to make proper returns of sales of stamps at their respective offices; and such regulations'have the force of law.
An indictment charging a postmaster and others with conspiring under
§ 37, Penal Code, to violate §§ 206 and 208, Penal Code, by the sale
and purchase of stamps in large quantities to be used at other post
offices so as to fraudulently increase his salary, and also charging violation of regulations of the Department in that respect, is sufficient.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
under the Criminal Appeals Act of 1907 and the construction of statutes regulating the pay of postmasters and the
power of the Postmaster General to make regulations in
-regard thereto, are stated in the opinrion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Wallace for -the United
States.
Mr. Philip Rubenstein, with whom Mr. Timothy Howard
was on the brief, for defendants in error:
This court has no jurisdiction under the act of March 2,
1907. No statute 'was construed or interpreted by the
court below. United States v. George, 228 U. S. 14, 19.
The whole case resolved itself into the question of the
power to enact the regulation. If this be a construction
by the lower court of Rev. Stat., § 161, it does not con-stitute a construction of the statute upon which the indictment is founded. United States v. Keitel, 211 U. S.
370, 378; United States v. Patton, 226 U. S. 525, 535.
The words "gross receipts" were not interpreted. The
only question was whether there was power in an administrative officer to mak6 a regulation limiting its scope.
The regulation is beyond the power of the Postmaster
-General to enact, and accordingly is invalid. The regulation is- inconsistent with law, and in making it the Postmaster General has attempted to legislate. This regulation proposes to base the salary. of the postmaster upon

UNITED STATES v. FOSTER.
233 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

gross receipts less unusual sales; in other words, upon
something less than gross receipts. He has no right thus
to change the method which Congress has clearly provided for fixing salaries. United States v. George, 228
U. S. 14; United States v. Eaton, 144 U. S. 687; Morrill v.
Jones, 106 U. S. 466; Williamson v. United States, 207
U. S. 425.
Neither executive officers nor the appointing power
can, during the service of an officer, either increase or
diminish a salary fixed by statute. Glavey v. United States,
182 U. S. 595, 601; United States v. Wilson, 144 U. S. 24.
Many cases in that connection have been decided in the
Court of Claims. Rush v. United States, 35 Ct. Cls. 223;
Andrews v. United States, 47 Ct. Cls. 51; Adams v. United
States, 20 Ct. Cls. 115, 117; Geddes v. United States, 38
Ct. Cis. 428; Whiting v. United States, 35 Ct. Cls. 291;
Sherlock's Case, 43 Ct. CIs. 161; Jacobs v. United States,
41 Ct. Cls. 452.
Other cases in which the validity of departmental regula'tions have been considered axe: In re Page, 128 Fed. Rep.
317; Borden v. United States, 132 Fed. Rep. 205; United
States v. Symonds, 120 U. S 46; Pattersonv. United States,
181 Fed. Rep. 970; Bruhl v. Wilson, 123 Fed. Rep. 957;
Hoover v. Salling, 110 Fed. Rep. 43; Bruce v. United States,
202 Fed. Rep. 100.
Sometimes legislation provides for departmental regulations to care for details of administration of the particular legislation and in aid of it. The regulation in
issue is not of that kind. It is the expression of the views
of a particular administrative officer as to salaries to be
paid to second-class postmasters. The regulation is not
supplementary to the statute, but inconsistent with it.
If the regulation is invalid the conspiracy to do acts
prohibited therein is not a conspiracy to defraud. United
States v. Biggs, 211 U. S. 507, 519, 521; Williamson v.
United States, 207 U. S. 425.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. 9.

The cases cited by the United States do not sustain
its position.
United States v. Johnston, 124 U. S. 236, 253; Lewis
Publishing Co. v. Wyman, 182 Fed. Rep. 13, 16; McKee v.
United States, 164 U. S. 287, 293; Brewer v. Blougher, 14
Pet. 178; Petri v. Commercial National Bank, 142 U. S.
644; State v. Ill. Cent. R. R. Co., 92 N. E. Rep. 814; United
States v. Antikamnia Co., 231 U. S. 654, are not in point.
MR. JusTIcE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
Indictment in two counts for conspiracy to defraud the
United States, and to violate certain provisions of the
postal laws. The object of the conspiracy and the manner
of its execution are in substance, as charged in the indictment in the first count, as follows: Harold A. Foster was
postmaster of the United States post-office at North
Brookfield, Massachusetts, a second class office. The
salary of the office was fixed by the Postmaster General,
pursuant to law and the regulations established by him,
at $2,000 a year, the salary being based and ascertained
upon the gross receipts of the office for the twelve months
next preceding the thirty-first of March, 1911. The law
required the salary to be adjusted annually, and the next
adjustment was required to be made by the Postmaster
General in accordance with the gross receipts of the office
as shown by the quarterly returns of the postmaster to
the Auditor of the Post Office Department for the four
quarters next preceding the thirty-first of March, 1912,
the readjustment to take effect on the ensuing first of
July, 1912. The Postmaster General was required by law
and the established regulations in readjusting such salary
not'to include in the gross receipts of the office the moneys
received by the postmaster for the sale of stamps to any
person or persons in large quantities to be used in other

UNITED STATES v. FOSTER.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

post-offices than the 'North Brookfield office for mailing
purposes, or in that office if such matter in the ordinary
course would not be deposited for mailing in the latter
office.
Frank E. Winchell, of North Brookfield, was the president and general manager of the Oxford Linen Mills, a
corporation having its usual place of business at North
Brookfield, and William S. Edwards and Harry H. Platt,
'both of New York, were officers of the Sterling Debenture
Company, a corporation having its place of business in
New York, and they and Foster, well knowing the premises, conspired to defraud the United States of its money
and property by Winchell purchasing from the United
States in behalf of the Oxford Linen Mills, with the knowledge, consent and connivance of Foster, quantities of
United States postage stamps to be sent to the Sterling
Debenture corporation at New York, and Edwards and
Platt as its officers werE to cause it to use them in the
prepayment of postage upon matter to be deposited in the
post-office in New York or in some other office with the
view and intent, by means of the purchase of stamps as
stated, of irregularly and improperly increasing the gross
receipts of the North Brookfield post-office for the twelve
months beginning on the first of April, 1911, and ending
on the thirty-first of March, 1912, and thereby enabling
Foster, as such postmaster to make returns to the Auditor
of the Post Office Department as a basis for the adjustment of Foster's salary for the fiscal year beginning July 1,
1912, which returns should include the sale of stamps so
made to Winchell in addition to the sale of stamps made
by Foster to other persons in the regular business of the
North Brookfield office, with the intent and view of violating the regulations of the Post Office Department and for
the purpose of fraudulently increasing Foster's salary,
and with the further intent that such sales should, in
violation of the Post Office! regulations, be included and

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

deemed a part of the gross receipts of the North Brookfield office for the period above mentioned, and be made in
part the basis of the readjustment of Foster's salary. All
the acts done by Fosrter, Winchell, Edwards and Platt were
done knowingly, wilfully and fraudulently for such purpose, that is, for the purpose of increasing the salary of
Foster by a sum of money in excess of that which he
would be lawfully entitled to receive and to cause such
excessive sum to be paid to him and thereby cheat and
defraud the United States thereof.
In pursuance of the unlawful conspiracy and to effect
its object, on the first of July, 1911, Foster, as such postmaster, made a false returii to the Post Office Department
of the gross receipts of the North Brookfield office for the
quarter ending June 30, 1911.
In further pursuance of the conspiracy and to effect its
object, Winchell, on June 2, 1911, at North Brookfield,
sent by registered mail. to the Sterling Debenture corporation at New York a certain package, and also in pursuance
of the conspiracy and to effect its object, Winchell bought
from Foster postage stamps to the value of $200.
In a second count the indictment charges that the
defendants unlawfully conspired -to commit an offense
against the United States, specified to be an offense
denouniced by §206 of the act of March 4, 1909, entitled
"An 'Act to codify, revise, and amend the penal laws of
the United States," c.-321, 35 Stat. 1088, 1128, in that
.Foster, as such postmaster, should, in violation of the
section, knowingly and fraudulently increase Foster's
salary and compensation by knowingly and fraudulently
failing to report, in the report of the gross receipts of his
office required by law and the regulations of the Post
Office Department, -large and irregular sales of stamps to
be made by Foster to Winchell as president and general
manager of the Oxford Linen Mills, not to be used by that
corporation, or by Winchell, or by any other person for

UNITED STATES v. FOSTER.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the mailing of matter at the North'Brookfield office, but
to be used for mailing matter at New York or in some
post-office other than the North Brookfield office, with
the intent and for the purpose of increasing the compensation of Foster as such postmaster. That in pursuance of
such conspiracy Winchell, on June 2, 1911, purchased
stamps of the value of.$200.
In pursuance of the conspiracy and to effect its object,
Foster, on the first of July, 1911, made a false return to
the Auditor of the Post Office Department of the gross
receipts of his office. An overt act by Winchell is charged.
The defendants were duly arraigned and pleaded not
guilty, but subsequently withdrew their pleas of not
to the indictment.
guilty and filed demurrers
The grounds of demurrer were the same as to both
counts and were: (1) The facts alleged did not constitute
a crime; (2) nor an offense at common law; (3) nor a
violation of the statutes or penal laws of the United
State§; (4) nor a violation of any valid regulation of the
Postmaster General; (5) each and every one of his regulations is invalid.
The demurrers to the first count were sustained on the
ground expressed by the court in its opinion, that the
act of March 3, 1883 (2 C". S. Comp. Stat. 2619) provides
that the salaries of postmasters of the second class shall be
determined by the gross receipts of the office and that the
Postmaster General had no power to qualify the requirement of the law by providing that unusual sales of stamps
should not be included in estimating the gross receipts.
In passing upon the demurrers to the second count the
court said that the count, charged the defendants with a
conspiracy to commit "the offense denounced by section 206 of the Criminal Code," that section providing,
inter alia, that whoever being a postmaster shall, for the
purpose of fraudulently increasing his compensation, make
a false return, statement, or account to any officer of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

United States shall be punished. The crime denounced,
the court said, included "two essential elements, (1) that
a return shall be made, which was known to be false; and
(2) that such false return shall have been made 'for the
purpose of fraudulently increasing compensation."' And
the court observed that there could be no criminality
unless a false return was made for the purpose stated, and
that it appearing from the indictment that the alleged
return made by Foster was to secure for him only what he
was legally entitled to receive, he committed no crime
under § 206, "and the alleged conspiracy to do so was not
a conspiracy 'to commit the offense denounced thereby."
It will be observed, therefore, that the court held that
the indictment charged neither a conspiracy to defraud
the United States nor to make a false return, because the
object of each conspiracy was to obtain only what Foster
was legally entitled to, namely, an increase of salary based
upon the gross receipts of his office, and that it was immaterial how they were increased or for what purpose
increased.
The case was brought here under the Criminal Appeals
Act of March 2, 1907, c. 2564, 34 Stat. 1246, its provision
being that this court has jurisdiction on writ of error taken
by the United States in criminal cases "from a decision
sustaining a demurrer to any indictment where such
decision is based upon the invalidity or construction of the

statute upon which the indictment is founded." It is,
however, contended by defendants in error that this
court has no jurisdiction because;, it is further contended.,
the district court gave the same meaning to the statutes
upon which the indictment was based as the Government
asserted was the -correct one and bnly decided that the
regulation of the Postmaster General was beyond his
power to enact under Revised Statutes, § 161, upon which
section alone he claimed the power. Nor, it is further
contended, were the words "gross receipts" interpreted.

UNITED STATES v. FOSTER.
233 U. S.

. 523

Opinion of the Court.

"The only question was," counsel say, "whether there was
power in an administrative officer to make the regulation
limiting its scope." It is further urged that if those
words were interpreted the indictment was not founded
upon the act of 1883, where they occur.
A lack of jurisdiction is also' urged to review the ruling
upon the second count, itbeing based on § 206 of the
Criminal Code, the construction or interpretation of which
was never in dispute. "Whether it applied or not," it is
said, "had to be determined by the validity of the regulation."
We think the contentions are untenable. The court
distinctly ruled that the indictment was in technical or
formal details sufficient, and the contention of the parties
not only submitted for decision the validity of the regulations of the Postmaster General but also the sufficiency
and legality of the returns made by Foster under the
provisions of the statutes. The court, it is true, gave
especial prominence to the regulations, but the effect 'of
the statutes independently of the regulations was necessarily considered. In other words, the court must have
considered and decided that a conspiracy to establish a
basis for a false return for the purpose of increasing Foster's salary was nbt prohibited by law; and, besides, a
construction of the statutes, was necessary to determine
the validity of the regulation.
The case being one of statutory construction, a consideration of the statutes becomes necessary.
It is provided by the act of March 3, 1883, c. 142, 22
Stat. 600, that "the compensation of postmasters of the
first, second and- third classes shall be annual salaries,
assigned in even hundreds of 'dollars, and payable in
quarterly payments, to be ascerfained and fixed by the
Postmaster General from their respective quarterly returns to the Auditor of the Treasury for the Post Office
Department .
.
to be forwarded to the First As-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

sistant Postmaster General, for four quarters immediately
preceding the adjustment," according to the gross receipts,
the amount of which not only determines the classes but
the compensation of the offices within classes.
By §4 of the act (22 Stat. 602), the Postmaster General
is required to readjust the salaries of the first, second and
third class at the beginning of each fiscal year. The same
section fixed the salary of the postmaster at the Washington Post Office and provided that "in no case shall the
salary of any postmaster exceed the sum of six thousand
dollars, except in the city of New York, where the salary
of the postmaster shall remain as now fixed by law, at
eight thousand dollars."
Section 37 of the Criminal Code makes it an offense to
conspire to defraud the United States in any manner or
for any purpose.
Section 206 of the same code makes it a crime for a postmaster to make a false return, for the purpose of fraudulently increasing his compensation, or to induce or attempt
to induce, for such purpose, any person to deposit mail
matter in or forward in any manner for mailing at the
office where such postmaster is employed, knowing such
matter to be properly mailable at some other office.
Section 208 makes it a crime for a postmaster to dispose
of stamps outside of the delivery of his office, or to induce
or attempt to induce, for the purpose of increasing his
compensation, the purchase of stamps, stamped envelopes
or postal cards otherwise than as provided by law or the
regulations of the Post Office Department.
By § 161 of the Revised Statutes it is provided that "the
head of each department is authorized to prescribe regulations, not inconsistent with law, for the government of
his department, the conduct of its officers and clerks, and
.
the distribution and performance of its business.
In pursuance of the authority so given, the Postmaster
General made the following regulation:

UNITED STATES v. FOSTER.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"2. In determining the 'gross receipts' upon which the
salary of a postmaster shall be based, stamps, stamped
envelopes, and postal cards, sold in large or unusual quantities to any person to be used in mailing matter at other
post offices will not be included, whether the sale be made
with or without solicitation by the postmaster. When
postage stamps or stamped paper are sold in large or
unusual quantities, it 'shall be the duty of the postmaster
to inquire into and ascertain whether or not the purchaser
intends to use such postage stamps or stamped paper
for mailing matter in his office, or other offices; and the
fact shall be clearly indicated in his monthly stock report
on Form 3240 to the Third Assistant Postmaster General.
Upon evidence of neglect of the postmaster to ascertain
and report such facts, he will be required to refund the
amount of the excess salary and allowances he may have
received on account of such sales."
It is manifest from the, quoted provisions that their
purpose is to fix the salary of postmasters by the normal
receipts of their respective Offices and thereby keep the
offices in relation, and to secure such end quarterly returns
are required to be made by each postmaster and each is
prohibited under criminal penalty from selling or disposing of stamps, stamped envelopes or postal cards outside
of the delivery of his office, or selling or disposing of
stamps, etc., otherwise than as provided by law or the
regulations of the Post Office Department. In other
words, the false returns and designated disposition of
stamps are made crimes, and made crimes to secure the
purpose of the law to keep the legal measure of the salaries
unimpaired and the relation of the offices intact. It may,
indeed, be that in one sense the United States would suffer
no loss by the derangement of their relation; in another
sense the United States would be defrauded. One of the
postmasters would fraudulently obtain a greater salary
than he was entitled to. But distinctly would the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

States be defrauded under the facts charged inthe indictment, the postmaster at New York having a fixed salary
of eight thousand dollars. See in this connection Haas v.
Henkel, 216 U. S. 462, 479.
The sole theory of the act of 1883 is that every postmaster shall receive a salary dependent upon and regulated
b1y the amount of business done at his office (Uniied States
v. Wilson, 144 U. S. 24, 28) under normal and natural
sales of stamps, not unlawfully induced sales. This being
the law, what does the indictment charge?
(1) The salary of the postmaster was to be adjusted in
accordance with the returns of the gross receipts. (2)
By the law and regulations of the Postmaster General
the postmaster was not to include in the gross receipts
moneys received from tho sale of stamps in large or unusual quantities which were (a) to be used upon matter in
some other post office or (b) used upon matter deposited
at North Brookfield if in the ordinary and usual course of
business such matter would be deposited at some other
office. (3) The defendants conspired with Winchell, who
purchased from Foster with Foster's connivance large
quantities of stamps to be used by the Sterling Debenture
corporation for mailing matter at New York or some other
office than North Brookfield, and by such purchase to
irregularly and improperly increase the gross receipts of
the North Brookfield office, and thereby enable Foster to
make returns as a basis for the readjustment of his salary
in violation of the regulations of the Post Office Department and for the purpose of increasing his salary and
thereby cheat and defraud the United States.
The second count charges a violation of §206 of the
Criminal Code, by conspiring, in the manner we have
already set out and which need not be repeated.
It is clear from these provisions that it is the gross receipts from lawful sales which are to be the measure of the
salary of the postmaster and that unlawfully induced

UNITED STATES v.. FOSTER.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

sales (§ 208), sales made "outside of the delivery of the
office" (Id.), and sales "otherwise than as provided by
law or the regulations of the Post Office Department"
(Id.), are unlawful sales and regarded as criminal.
It would, indeed, be strange if unlawful and criminal
sales were intended to constitute a part of the gross receipts upon which the postmaster's salary should be adjusted, and it would seem clear that to prevent such result
the Postmaster General could legally exercise. by the
regulation under review the power given him by Rev.
Stat., § 16f. The regulation is purely administrative, of
the law. (1.) It notifies the postmaster that in the gross
receipts of his office stamps in large or unusual quantities
sold to be used in mailing mLtter at other post offices will
not be included. This but executed the purpose of the
law; adds nothing to it. United States v. Antikamnia
Chemical Co., 231 U. S. 654; Lewis Publishing Co. v.
Wyman, 182 Fed. Rep. 13. (2.) It requires the postmaster
to ascertain and report the intention of the purchaser of
stamps or stamped paper in large or unusual quantities.
This is properly supplemental to the first requirement and
a reasonable supervision of the office and a means of discovering unlawful and fraudulent sales. (3.) It provides
that for a neglect'to so ascertain and so report the postmaster will be required to refund the amount of the excess
salary he may have received on account of such sales.
This provision is of doubtful validity, but it is not of
material consequence to the questions now involved.
But if the regulation be regarded as invalid the indictment yet states an offense. It counts not only upon the
regulation but upon the law, and the facts it alleges show
a violation of the law.
Judgment reversed.

