OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Cae.

233 U. S.

ARCHER v. GREENVILLE SAND AND GRAVEL
COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEAJZg FOR THE

FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 271. Argued March 13, 1914.-Decided April 6, 1914.
Equity has jurisdiction of an action to enjoin a continuing trespass
even if the injunctive remedy is only asked after final adjudication

and although the trespass may have been discontinued before that
time.
There is no loss of rights or remedies because a plaintiff does not ask"
for immediate relief but endures the wrong pending the litigation
and until final adjudication.
To constantly dredge gravel from the bed of a stream is a continuing
trespass and wrong that entitles the owner to injunctive relief in
equity and for which he has no adequate remedy at law.
In Mississippi the common law prevails as to riparian rights, and he who
owns the bank owns to'the middle of a navigable river subject to the
easement of navigation.
It is a question of local law whether the title to the bed of the navigable
rivers of the United States is in the State in .which the rivers are situated or in the owners of the land bordering on such rivers.
An owner of the upland, who, under the law of the State, owns'to the
middle of a navigable river, has such in interest in the bed of tio"
stream that, even though he cannot remove gravel therefrom without
the consent of the Secretary of War, he can maintain an action to
prevent others from doing so.
One sued for removing gravel from the bed of a navigable stream by
the owner of the upland cannot demur on the ground that the complaint fails to show that he has not obtained a permit from the Secretary of War. It will not be presumed that the Secretary of War will
authorize such removal, and the existence of such a permit must be
pleaded.
THE facts, which involve the ownership of sand in the
bed of the Mississippi river within the boundaries of the
State of Mississippi, are stated in the opinion.

ARCHER v. GREENVILLE GRAVEL CO.
233 U. S.

Argument for Respondents.

Mr. Percy Bell and Mr. T. M. Miller for petitioner.
Mr. John W. Yerkes, with whom Mr. George E. Hamilton and Mr. John J. Hamilton were on the brief, for respondents:
This suit cannot be sustained in equity.
Even if equitable jurisdiction exist, plaintiff has not
such title to the sand and gravel dredged in the bed of the
Mississippi River as will sustain the action.
Plaintiff had a plain, adequate, and complete remedy
at law, and there is no ground for equitable relief.
Parties to a suit at law can now be summoned into court
and examined by opposing party. Bills of discovery are
no longer necessary, and jurisdiction in equity for this
purpose (if it has not absolutely ceased as unwarranted)
has become inoperative and obsolete.
The bill does not present facts sufficient to support
an accounting, and there is no necessity for discovery.
As a preliminary injunction was not asked and the injunction sought is to be part of final decree after title has
been decided in plaintiff's favor, the acts complained of,
the dredging done, might have ceased long before the
final hearing, and unless the cause, for other and recognized reasons, falls properly within equitable jurisdiction,
the prayer for such an inJunction will not draw equitable
jurisdiction to the action.
Plaintiff has no title to, or ownership of, the sand and
gravel dredged in the bed of the Mississippi River by
defendants.
The two state decisions relied upon to sustain plaintiff's
title to the bed of the stream decide one proposition only,
that the riparian proprietor on the Mississippi owns at
least to low-water mark.
Right of property in the bank of the Mississippi River,
between high and low water marks, is not dependent upon,

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Respondents.

233 ,U.S.

and does not rest upon, ownership to the thread of the
channel.
Riparian rights proper rest upon title to the bank and
not upon title to the soil under the water; and riparian
proprietors, irrespective of ownership of the bed of a
stream, have the right to construct suitable landings for
the convenience of themselves and others, subject to
public use of the stream and the paramount right of the
Federal Government with regard to navigation.
The lands owned by petitioner were originally public
lands, and grants by the Government of lands on navigable
streams extend only to the limits of high water and as an
incident of ownership a riparian proprietor will be lim-

ited, according to law of the State, either to low or high
water mark, or the middle of the stream.
The bill is too indefinite to show such riparian ownership in plaintiff as will carry with it even qualified or technical ownership of the bed of the stream.
The Mississippi River is a public highway, and rights
of adjoining landowners are subject to Federal control
regulating commerce and to Federal laws in connection
therewith.
Under Federal statutes, it is unlawful for any person to
excavate or in any manner alter or modify the course,
condition or capacity of the channel of the Mississippi
River, unless authorized by the Secretary of War,. and if
the dredging and removal of sand and gravel were done
under this authority, it would not be in law a trespass
upon the property of plaintiff.
The court will not assume that extensive, continued
work of this kind in the channel of the river would be undertaken and done by defendants without this proper authorization and authority.
In support of these contentions, see Bardes v. Hawarden
Bank, 178 U. S.524; Barney v. Keokuk, 94 U. S.324; Ex
parte Boyd, 105 U. S.647; Brown v. Swann, 10 Peters, 497;

ARCHER v. GREENVILLE GRAVEL CO.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Bullock v. Wilson, 2 Porter's Reports (Ala.), 436; Carroll

v. Carroll, 16 How. 275; Delaplaine v. Chicago &c. Ry.
Co., 42 Wisconsin, 214; Diedrich v. R. R. Co., 42 Wisconsin, 248; Drexel v. Berney, 14 :Fed. Rep. 268; Ellis v. Davis,
109 U. S. 485; Fowle v. Lawrason, 5 Peters, 495; The
Genesee Chief, 12 How. 443; Indianapolis Water Co. v.
American Co., 53 Fed. Rep.. 970; Judicial Code, § 267,
Rev. Stat., §723'; Lyon v. Fishmongers Co., L. R. 1 App.
Cas. 662; McCormick Machine Co. v. Aultman, 169 U. S.
606; Magnoliav. Marshall,39 Mississippi, 113; Mississippi
Code, § 1003; Morgan v. Reading, 3 S. & M. 366 (Miss.);
Packer v. Bird, 137 U. S. 661; Railroad Co. v. Schurmier,
7 Wall. 272; Rev. Stat. §723; Rindskopf v. Platto, 29
Fed. Rep. 130; Root v. Railroad Co., 105 U. S. 189;
SScranton v. Wheeler, 179 U. S. 141; United States v.
Chandler Co., 229 U. S. 53; United States v. Clark County,
96 U. S. 211; 26 Stat. 454; Yates v. Milwaukee, 10 Wall.
497.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the

court.
Bill in equity to restrain respondent, herein called the
Gravel Company, from trespassing upon the lands of
petitioner, herein called plaintiff, and from taking sand
and gravel therefrom. The bill also prayed for discovery
of the amounti of gravel which had been taken and an accounting therefor.
The bill alleges the ownership of the lands by plaintiff
and describes them by section, range and township and
as "lying west of the levee along the river front ' .
and fronting on the said Mississippi River," excepting
therefrom two strips 100 feet wide each. That lying in
the bed of the river in front, of the lands and between the
bank of the stream and t e thread of the river are valuable
deposits of sand and gravel which, under the laws of

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

Mississippi are on the lands of plaintiff, her right and title
extending to the lands under the river 4o the thread of the
stream.
That the Gravel Company entered into a contract with
the Yazoo & Mississippi Valley Railroad Company to
supply sand and gravel for the purpose of grading and
raising the line of the railroad and that the Gravel Company employed the E. A. Voight Company to dredge from
the bed of the river in front of the lands of plaintiff, and
between the river bank and the thread of the stream, the
sand and gravel required by it. That the Voight Company is dredging the same over the protest of plaintiff and
has taken therefrom large quantities of sand and gravel
which it has delivered to the Gravel Company, and the
latter company is selling the same to the public and to
the railroad company.
That the Gravel Company has refused to cease dredging
or to make compensation therefor. That petitioner does
not know how much of such material has been taken, but
great quantities thereof have been taken, the amounts of
.which are peculiarly within the knowledge of the Gravel
Company.
That the dredging constitutes a continuing trespass
upon the lands and property of plaintiff and she is entitled
to have the same restrained and to an injunction and accounting and that she is remediless except in a court of
equity. She prayed for such relief.
The deeds constituting her title were attached to the
bill. The deed conveying title to her, after describing the
lands and stating they consisted of 1300 acres, contained
the expression, "excepting such parts thereof as have
been washed away by the river."
The suit, on the petition of the Gravel Company, was
removed to the United States Circuit Court for the Southern District, Western Division, of the State of Mississippi,
in which court the Gravel Company filed a demurrer

ARCHER v. GREENVILLE GRAVEL CO.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

under nine specifications, alleging want of equity in the
bill because of an adequate remedy at law, and want of
substance in it because petitioner was not the owner of
the sand and gravel in the bed of the river.
The demurrer was sustained and as plaintiff declined
to amend her bill, a decree was entered dismissing it.
The decree was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals
without opinion. A petition for rehearing was made,
which was denied without comment, and we are without
knowledge of the views of the lower courts or of the
grounds upon which their judgments were based except
that counsel for plaintiff asserts the Circuit Court sustained the demurrer "solely on the ground of the jurisdiction of the court."
The grounds of demurrer, we think, and the contentions
of the parties present two propositions-(1) the right of
plaintiff to relief in equity and (2) that she does not show
ownership of the property in question as a matter of law.
In the latter is involved the question wh ther a grant of
lands bounded by the waters of the Mississippi River, a
navigable stream above tidewater, extends to the thread
of the channel.
The first proposition is easily disposed of, and, passing
by the prayer for discovery and an accounting, we think
the bill shows a continuing trespass of such nature and of
such character of injury that remedies at law by actions
for damages would be inadequate and would, besides, entail repeated litigation. Mills v. N. 0. Seed Co., 65 Mississippi, 391. Nor is this conclusion disturbed by the fact
urged by the Gravel Company, that plaintiff prays for an
injunction to be granted only after the hearing of the cause,
and although then the rights of the contestants may be
finally adjudicated in her favor or the dredging might
cease before that time. The contention is somewhat
strange. A plaintiff's right of suit cannot be defeated by a
mere supposition that he or she may be successful or that
VOL. CCXXXIII-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

the defendant may cease to offend against the right asserted. It is.in the hope of one or the other of such results
that the suit is brought against a present or threatened
violation of rights. If wrongs are endured in the meantime, there is no loss of rights or remedies.
We are, therefore, brought to the second proposition,
Is plaintiff the owner of the sand and the gravel in the
bed of the river?
The law of Mississippi is an element in the case. It first
found elaborate discussion and decision in Morgan &
Harrisonv. Reading, 11 Mississippi (3 Smedes & Marshall,
Rep. 366, 404, and it was held that the common law was
adopted for the government of the Mississippi Territory,
and that the line of the Territory was the middle of theMississippi River and thati it hence followed that the
rights of riparian owners on the east shore must be determined in the State of Mississippi by the common law, and
that it was a principle of that law "that he who owns the
bank, owns to the middle of the river, subject to the easement of navigation." 3 Kent's Com. (5th ed.) 427, and
notes were cited.
The case involved the right of the owner of the bank of
the river to charge for mooring purposes on the river
above low water mark. The right was sustained upon the
principle which we have stated above.
The same principle was announced in The Steamboat.
Magnolia v. Marshall, 39 Mississippi, 109. The case was
said by the court to be identical in its facts with Morgan &
Harrisonv. Reading. The opinion is too long to review or
to quote from at any length. It left no-case or authority
unreviewed nor any consideration untouched, and carefully distinguished the public and private interest in the
Mississippi River, the court saying, p. 122, "There is no
inconsistency, but, on the contrary, as before suggested,
perfect harmony between the jus privatum of riparian
ownership in public fresh water streams, to the middle of

ARCHER v. GREENVILLE GRAVEL CO.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the river, and the jus publicum of free navigation thereof.
The soil is granted to the riparian proprietor, subject to
this public easement." And, again, in criticism of what
the court considered an ttenable view expressed by the
court of another State, it said, p. 124: "This general
doctrine is as old as the Year-books, that, prima facie,
every proprietor on each bank'of a river is entitled to the
land covered with water to the middle of the stream."
This being declared to be the law of the State, judgment
was entered for charges for the use by the Magnolia of a
landing on the river.
I But it is said by the Gravel Company that according to
the agreed facts there was no 'use or occupation' of the
lands of the plaintiff in the case 'beyond high-water mark;
the only portion used and occupied being the bank of the
river between high and low-water mark,' and that the
court identifying the facts with those in the Morgan Case,
said: "What are the rights of the riparian owners, and
what the jus publicum incident to the free navigation of
the Mississippi, are questions there presented, and are the
main questions here again presented." This statement, it
is hence contended, limits the binding authority of the
opinions "as judicial determinations to a decision of what
are the rights of a riparian owner between high and lowwater marks as connected with the rights of the public
in using the Mississippi River as a public highway and
navigable stream." And it is further contended that that
"question is in no way connected with the ownership of
the bed of the stream or ownership of the gravel and sand
in the channel of the stream." It is, therefore, insisted
that "the case called for nothing more than a decision as
to these bank rights, and if more was intended by the
judge who delivered the opinion, it was purely obiter."
We cannot concur in this view. The court deduced the
right to charge for the occupation of the water between
high and low-water marks from the ownership of the soil

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.

Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

to the middle thread of the stream. The elaborate reasoning and research of the opinion were directed to demonstrate that under the common law of the State, riparian
ownership extends ad filum, and, as a consequence, embraces the right to charge for the use of the water between
high and low-water marks for landing purposes, although
not for purposes of transit, The case is cited as having
that purport in 3 Kent's Comm. 14th ed., star paging 427,
where the doctrine of riparian rights as they obtain in the
States of the Union is considered and the cases collected.
In the sixth edition of Kent the Magnolia Case is commended as "a frank and manly support of the binding
force of the common law, on which American jurisprudence
essentially rests." See also Shively v. Bowlby, 152 U. S. 1,
for a discussion by this court of riparian rights.
The Morgan and Magnolia Cases were cited in New
Orleans, M. & C. R. R. Co. v. Frederic,46 Mississippi, 1, 9,
10, to sustain "the right of the owner of the land on the
bank of the river to the thread of the stream, subject only
to a right of passage thereon as a highway when the stream
admits it."
It is further urged that the argument in the Morgan
Case "in support of the common law doctrine as to the
ebb and flow of the tide constituting a navigable stream is
in direct opposition and antagonism to the reasoning and
,ppinion of this court in the frequently cited and approved
case of the Genesee Chief, 12 How. 443, decided in 1851,
nine years before the opinion of the State Court was
handed down." Other cases are also cited in which it is
decided that riparian rights pertain to the bank and
distinguish as it is asserted, between rights admittedly
riparian and rights of ownership of or to the bed. of the
river. We need not enter into a discussion of those cases,
or assign their exact authority. This court has decided
that it is a question of local law whether the title to the
beds of the navigable rivers of the United States is in the

ARCHER v. GREENVILLE GRAVEL CO.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the.Court.

State in which the rivers are situated or in the owners of
the land bordering upon such rivers. Packer v. Bird,
137 U. S. 661; United States v. Chandler-DunbarCo., 229
U. S. 53; Kaukauna Water Power Co. v. Canal Co., 142
U. S. 254; St. Louis v. Rutz, 138 U. S. 226; Shively v.
Bowlby, 152 U. S. 1; Hardin v. Jordan, 140 U. S. 371;
Jones v. Soulard, 24 How. 41.
Plaintiff owning the land to the middle of the stream, it
would seem to follow that she must have such property in
its soil as to resist a trespasser upon it, such as the bill
alleges the Gravel Company to be. The right, however, is
denied, and it is said that site is powerless to prevent the
Gravel Company from dredging in front of her land, because under the laws of the United States she herself could
not do so without permission from the Secretary of War.
For this, § 7 of the Rivers and Harbors Appropriation Act
of September 19, 1890, c. 907, 26 Stat. 426, 454, is cited as
making it unlawful for any person to excavate or fill, or
'in any manner to alter or modify, the course, location,
condition or capacity of the channel of said navigable
water of the United States unless approved and authorized
by the Secretary of War. Whether if she took gravel from
the front of her land she would incur the condemnation of
this act it is not necessary to decide. She certainly had
such an interest in the conditions to prevent one without
right from disturbing them. We cannot help observing
that the Gravel Company by its conduct has given an
interpretation of the act against its contention, unless
indeed it wishes to confess itself a violator of public law
in order to escape responsibility for a private injury.
The Gravel Company tries to avoid this situation,
saying, that a violation of the law cannot be imputed to it
because it cannot be assumed that the "extensive and
continued dredging, as alleged in the bill, affecting necessarily the channel of the river, would be undertaken
without proper authorization and authority, or that

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

233 U. S.

the proper officers of the Government would have allowed
these operations to continue." The supposition is easily
answered. There is no scheme of improvement of navigation suggested by the bill and it cannot be supposed that
the Secretary of War would authorize the Gravel Company to take material from the river for commercial
purpose, and the bill alleges such to be the purpose. Besides, if the Gravel Company had authority from the
Secretary of War, it is a matter of defence to be pleaded.
The Gravel Company further charges that considering
the allegations of the ,bill and the muniments of title attached to it there is exhibited a possible failure to plead
such title in plaintiff as would carry with it even a qualified
ownership in the bed of the stream. We do not think so.
At any rate, the bill is sufficient against a general demurrer
Judgment reversed.

HERBERT v. BICKNELL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF, THE TERRITORY OF
HAWAII.
No. 269.

Submitted March 12, 1914.-Decided April 6, 1914.

The Hawaiian Supreme Court having held that leaving a copy of the
summons at the place where defendant last had stopped amounted to

leaving it at his usual abode within § 2114, Rev. Laws of Hawaii, this
court will not disturb the judgment.
The law assumes that property is always in the possession of its owner
in person or by agent, and proceeds on the theory that its seizure will
inform him not only that it has been taken into custody but that he
must look to any proceeding authorized by law upon such seizure for
its condemnation and sale; and so held that an attachment and
judgment under § 2114, Rev. Stat. Hawaii, does not on account of
its provisions for service of the summons by leaving it at his last
known place of abode deprive a non-resident of any rights guaranteed
by the Fifth Amendment. Pennoyerv. Neff, 95 U. S. 714.
The existence of a garnishment statute is notice to the owner of claims
that he must be ready to be represented in case the debt is attached.

