-OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

233 U. S.

Finally, it is said that since it appears from the averments of the bill that all sales of sewing machines by appellant's agents in the field are executory only, and require
the approval of appellant at its regularly established
places of business, located in the various counties of the
State, which are headquarters for all agents with their
wagons and teams, it at the same time sufficiently appears
that appellant is a merchant conducting a regular business
at each of said stores, and therefore within the saving
clause of § 32 of the Act in question, which declares that
"This section shall not apply to merchants selling the
above enumerated articles at their regularly established
places of business."
It is quite plain, however, from a reading of the entire
*section, that the business of selling sewing machines by
traveling salesmen is intended to be taxed, and the business
of selling them at established places of business is intended
to be left untaxed, so far as this section is concerned, although the machines sold at these places be delivered by
wagons. Complainant is engaged in doing business of
both kinds; and with respect to the itinerant sales it is
subject to the tax under the section referred to.
Decree affirmed.

O'SULLIVAN v. FELIX.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 249. Submitted March 9, 1914.-Decided April 13, 1914.
That an action depends upon, or arises under, the laws of the United
States, does not preclude the application of the statute of limitations
of the State. McLaine v. Rankin, 197 U. S. 154.

O'SULLIVAN v. FELIX.
233 U. S:

Opinion of the Court.

An action brought in the state court for damages for personal assault
against persons violating Rev. Stat., §§ 5508 and 5509, is not an
action for penalties but for remedial damages, and the period of
prescription depends upon the law of the State. Rev. Stat., § 1047,
does not apply.
The criminal proceedings and punishment for public wrongs provided
by Rev. Stat., §§ 1979-1981 and 5510 and the actions in law and
equity for the redress of private injuries resulting from violations of
laws of the United States also provided by §§ 1979-1981 are distinct.
The term "penalty" involves the idea of punishment for infraction of
the law and includes any extraordinary liability to which the law
subjects a wrongdoer in favor of the person wronged, not limited to
the damages suffered; while in a. civil suit the amount of recovery for
such damages is determined by the extent of the injury received and
the elements constituting it.
194 Fed. Rep. 88, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the construction and application of the statute of limitations of the State of Louisiana
to claims for damages for personal assaults, are stated in
the opinion.

Mr. W. S. Parkerson and Mr. E. A. O'Sullivan for
plaintiff in error.
Mr. Charles S. Rice, Mr. R. B. Montgomery and Mr.
Alfred Billings for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCKNNA delivered the opinion of the
court.

Action for damages for personal assault upon plaintiff
in error, herein called plaintiff, by defendants in error,
referred to as defendants, in the sum of sixty thousand
dollars.
The petition alleges that defendants and others were
indicted for violating § 5508 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States. The indictment is set out in the petition

and charges, with the usual verbosity of such instruments,

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

that an election was held in the parish of Jefferson, State
of Louisiana, on November 3, 1908, for presidential
electors, members of Congress, and certain municipal
officers under and in accordance with the laws and Constitution of the United States; that certain named persons
were, as defendants well knew, qualified to vote at such
election, that such persons were at the polling places with
the intention and for the purpose of voting, and, knowing this, the defendants feloniously conspired and confederated with each other and other persons to intimidate
and prevent and-did prevent by the use of deadly weapons
such persons from voting.
It is alleged that the indictment further charged in a
second count, a violation of § 5509 in that the defendants,
with other named persons, conspiring to intimidate the
voters named in the first count from voting at the election
named, "did then and there, with force and arms, armed
with dangerous weapons, to-wit: pistols, guns, scissors,
wilfully and maliciously, unlawfully and feloniously and
upon" the defendant commit an assault, and with the
purpose and in the disposition described, "with a dangerous weapon, to-wit: a pair of scissors, inflict a wound less
than mayhem."
That the defendants herein were convicted on both
counts and sentenced to fine and imprisonment, and upon
appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals the conviction,
sentence and fine were affirmed.
That the defendants conspired to prevent and did prevent the voters named in the indictment
from voting and
that in furtherance of the conspiracy plaintiff was maliciously and without cause or provocation "cut, bruised,
beaten, his face and eye blackened, his beard cut, he
knocked down senseless,. and other indignities were
heaped upon him" by, the defendants, for which. he has
suffered damages in the sum of $60,00(,
That plaintiff is sixty-five years of age, has practiced

O'SULLIVAN v. FELIX.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

law and held positions of honor and trust in the State,
having been district attorney, state senator, and city
attorney for the city of New Orleans.
The petition recites the injuries plaintiff received in
defending himself from the assault upon him, and that he
"was forced to appear in public, in performing his duties,
carrying on his person the signs of the degradation and
humiliation placed upon hi~m."
The items of damage are set out as follows: For the
wounding less than mayhem, $25,000; for humiliation,
degradation and public ridicule and pain of mind, $25,000;
punitive and exemplary damages, $10,000. Judgment
was prayed for $60,000, the sum of these items.
Exception was filed to the petition on the ground that
the damages having, as it is alleged, been inflicted November 3, 1908, more than two years and five months
before the filing of the petition, the action is barred "by
the prescription of one year from and after the day on
which such damages were sustained, under the provisions
of Articles 3536 and 3537 of the Civil Code of the State
of Louisiana. Dismissal of the suit was prayed. The plea
of prescription was sustained and the sole question pressed
by counsel and which we are called upon to decid'e is the
application of the state statute to the conceded cause of
action. The court in passbag upon the application of the
statute of limitations said that plaintiff conceded that if
the action was to be governed by the state statute it was
prescribed, but he contended that it was an action for a
penalty and governed by the prescription of five years,
established by § 1047 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States. The court was of opinion that the action
was for "remedial damages and not for a penalty," and
maintained the plea of prescription, citing Campbell v.
Haverhill, 155 U. S. 610; Brady v. Daly, 175 U. S. 148, and
dismissed the action with costs.
Judgment of the Circuit Court was affirmed by the
VOL. CCXxxII-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

Circuit Court of Appeals. The court decided that the
action was one for damages and not for a penalty and the
limitations of five years against penalties or forfeitures
(Rev. Stat., § 1047) was not applicable. It followed, the
court said, that the state statute, which prescribes the
action in one year, must be applied, citing §§ 3536 and
3537 of the Civil Code of Louisiana. 194 Fed. Rep. 88.
.The opinions of the lower courts exhibit the contentions in the case, and the short question presented is
whether the action is for damages or for a penalty. If
for a penalty, § 1047 of the Revised Statutes applies,
which provides: " No suit or prosecution for any penalty
or forfeiture, pecuniary or otherwise, accruing under the
laws of the United States, shall be maintained
unless the same is commenced within five years from the
time when the penalty or forfeiture accrued." If for
damages, the provisions of the Louisiana Code are applicable. They are as follows: Article 3536. "The following actions are also prescribed by one year:
That for injurious words, whether verbal or written,
and that for damages caused by animals, or resulting from
offenses or quasi-offenses."
And the prescription runs from the day the damage is
sustained. Section 3537.
That the action depends upon or arises under the laws
of the United States does not preclude the application of
the statute of limitations of the State is established beyond
controversy by cases cited by the Circuit Court and by
McLaine v. Rankin, 197 U. S.154, 158.
It is, therefore, not necessary to pursue in detail the
argument of plaintiff based on the postulate that "the
Sovereign alone can limit the right of action," and that
because injury was inflicted on him in the course of violating Federal laws the limitation of the State could not apply.
Congress, of course could have, by specific provision,
prescribed. a limitation, but no specific provision is ad-

O'SULLIVAN v. FELIX.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

duced. The limitation of five years is asserted on the
ground thatthe action is for a penalty, and that it is such
is deduced from the provisions of Title XXIV of the
Revised Statutes securing equal civil rights to all
citizens.
These provisions secure! to all citizens the same rights
that white citizens enjoy and make every person who,
under color of any statute, ordinance, regulation, custom,
or usage of any State or Territory, deprives another of
the rights secured, liable "to the party injured in an action
at law, suit in equity, o:r other proper proceeding for
redress." Section 1979.
It is also provided that if a conspiracy be entered into
between two or more persons to deprive another of the
equal protection of the laws,, or of equal privileges and
immunities under the laws, and the persons conspiring to
or cause to be done any act in furtherance of the object of the conspiracy whereby another is injured in his
person or property, or deprived of having or exercising
any right or privilege as a citizen of the United States,
the party so injured or deprived may have an action for
the recovery of damages, occasioned by such injury or
deprivation, against any one or-more of the conspirators.
Section 1980.
Any one having knowledge of the wrongs conspired to
be done and who, having power to prevent or aid in preventing the commission of the same, neglects or refuses
to do so, shall be liable to the party injured or his legal
representatives in an action on the case. Any number of
defendants may be joined in. the action. If the death of
any party be caused by such act or neglect, the legal
representatives of the deceased shall have an action therefor and may recover not exceeding $5,000 for. the benefit
of the widow of the deceased, if there be one, anid, if there
be no widow, then for the benefit of the next of kin. But
no action under the provisions of the section can be sus-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

tained which is not commenced within one year after the
cause of action accrued. Section 1981.
Conspirators to injure, oppress, threaten or intimidate
any citizen in the free exercise or enjoyment of his rights
under the Constitution and laws of the United States, or
because of his having so exercised the same, shall be fined
not more than $5,000 and imprisoned not more than ten
years; and shall, moreover, be ineligible to office under the
United States. Section 5508.
If in violating any of the provisions of the two preceding sections any felony or misdemeanor be committed,
the offender shall be punished as provided in the state laws.
And every person who, under color of any law, etc.,
subjects or causes to be subjected any inhabitant of any
State or Territory to the deprivation of rights under the
laws and Constitution of the United States shall be fined
not more than $1,000 or be imprisoned not more than one
year, or both. Section 5510.
There are other criminal provisions not necessary to
mention.
It will be observ~d, therefore, that the sections of the
Revised Statutes, which we have quoted, provide criminal
proceedings and punishment for the public wrong, and
actions in law or equity for the redress of any private
injury, with a limitation in one instance of the amount
of recovery and of the time for commencing the action to
one year.
The penal and remedial provisions are, therefore, distinct and cannot be confounded. The term "penalty"
involves the idea of punishment for the infraction of the
law, and is commonly used as including any extraordinary
liability to which the law subjects a wrongdoer in favor
of the person wronged, not limited to the damages suffered.
United States v. Chouteau, 102 U. S. 603, 611; Huntington
v. Attrill, 146 U. S. 657, 666, 667. There is no justification for the contention of plaintiff, therefore, that the

KANSAS CITY RY. v. ANDERSON.
233 U. S.

Syllabus.

remedy provided for a penalty and the limitation of time
of bringing an action is five years under § 1047. It is very
clear that the public wrong is punished by the fines and
punishment prescribed, that the private injuries inflicted
are to be redressed by civil suit, and the amount of recovery is determined by the extent of the injury received
and the elements constituting it. This plaintiff indicates
in his pleading, praying damages in the sum of $25,000
"for the wounding less than mayhem," $25,000, "for
the humiliation, degradation and public ridicule," and
$10,000 "as punitive and exemplary damages."
Judgment affirmed.
KANSAS CITY SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY
v. ANDERSON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS.
No. 319.

Argued March 20, 1914.-Decided April 13, 1914.

A State may impose double damages and an attorney's fee on railway
companies for failure to pay the owner of stock killed within a
reasonable period after demand and award of the jury of the amount
claimed before action commenced; and so held that the double
damage statute of Arkansas is constitutional as applied to cases of
this character.
St. Louis, Iron Mtn. & Southern Ry. Co. v. Wynne, 224 U. S. 8,54,
distinguished, as in that case this statute was declared unconstitutional only as applied to claims where the jury awarded less than the
amount demanded.
A statute is not necessarily void for all purposes because it has been
declared by this court to be unconstitutional as applied to a particular
state of facts; it may be sustained as to another state of facts where
the state court has expressly decided that it should not be construed as applicable to such conditions as would render it unconstitutional if applied thereto.
A state statute imposing double damages and otherwise valid, is not

unconstitutional as denying the equal protection of the laws because

