OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
. Argument for Appellant.

233 U. S.

WHITE v. ISLAND TRANSPORTATION COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.
No. 206.

Submitted January 26, 1914.-Decided April 13, 1914.

The jurisdiction of a district court in a proceeding in admiralty to
limit the liability of a ship owner, under Rev. Stat., §§ 4283 et seq.,
is not ousted merely because a damage claimant puts in issue the
allegation in the petition or libel that the damage was occasioned
without the privity or knowledge of the owner. Butler v. Boston
Steamship Co., 130 U. S. 527.
In a proceeding in admiralty under Rev. Stat., §§ 4283 et seq., questions
of fact, whether jurisdictional or otherwise, are to be settled by a
trial; and where the petition alleges that the damage or injury, liability for, which is sought to be limited, was occasioned without
the privity or knowledge of the owner, and the damage claimant
waives proof of that allegation,' it must be taken as true, and there
will be no defect of jurisdiction in that regard.
Under Rev. Stat.,'§§ 4283 et seq., and admiralty rules 53-57, a proceeding to limit the liability of the ship owner may be maintained whether
there be a plurality of claims or only one.

THE facts, which involve the construction and application of the statutes regarding limitation of liability of
vessel owners, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. M. J. Gordon, Mr. P. C.- Sullivan and Mr. E. B.
Stevens for appellant:
The limited liability acts of Congress do not extend to
appellant's cause of action, as that cause of action is
disclosed by the record. Section 4283, Comp. Stat. 1901,
p. 2943. As additional or supplementary thereto, see § 18,
c. 121, act of June 26, 1884; Richardson v. Harmon, 222
U. S. 96.
The injury for which the appellant sought recovery
did not arise out of the conduct of the master or crew, but

WRITE v. ISLAND TRANSPORTATION CO.
233 U. S.

347

Opinion of the Court.

from the fault and negligence of the owners in improperly
constructing a vessel which it thereafter devoted to the
carriage of passengers for 'hire.
The claim which the appellant was asserting was one
predicated on negligent construction by the owner, as
contradistinguished from any negligence arising out of the
conduct of the master and the crew.
The law devolved upon the appellee as a common carrier
of passengers for hire the duty of providing safely constructed and properly equipped boats engaged in such
carriage, so far as the exercise of the highest degree of
care, prudence and foresight might contribute toward
making them safe. Phila. & Reading Ry. Co. v. Derby,
14 How. 485; Steamboat New World v. King, 16 How.
469; Penna. R. R. Co. v. Roy, 102 U. S. 451; Stokes v.
Saltonstall, 13 Pet. 181; Railroad Co. v. Pollard, 22 Wall.
341; Williams v. S. F. & N. Ry. Co., 39 Washington, 77;
Firebaughv. Seattle Electric Co., 40 Washington, 658.
Since the owner had the right to design and construct
this vessel according to its own plan, it would seem to
follow, as a necessary sequence, that an injury to a passenger which is the result of improper construction, must
be attributed to the fault of the owner, rather than that
of the master and crew.
Mr. Ovid A. Byers and Mr. Alpheus Byers for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
of the court.
While a passenger on the steamboat Fairhaven, p!ying
upon Puget Sound, Laura G. White sustained a severe
personal injury in being caught or thrown by a rod,
called a hog-chain, extending through the deck and connecting with the paddle-wheel. To recover for the injury
she brought an action against the Island Transportation

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

Company, the owner of the vessel, in the Superior Court
for King County, in the State of Washington, naming
$21,350.87 as her damages. The owner then filed a libel
or petition in the District Court of the United States for
that district to secure the benefit of the statute limiting
the liability of vessel owners. Rev. Stat., §§ 4283-4285;
Admiralty Rules, 53-57, 210 U. S. 562. The petition
referred to the action in the state court, and alleged that
the damage claimant was insisting that her injury was
caused by "the carelessness and negligence of the employ~s" of the owner in handling the vessel, in not furnishing the passengers with safe and proper facilities, and in
not informing them of dangerous conditions. It also
alleged that the claimant was injured through her own
negligence, without any fault in the construction, equipment, management, control or care of the- vessel, and
especially without the privity or knowledge of the owner;
that there was a valid and meritorious defense to the
claim; and that the value of the vessel did not exceed
$10,000. The petition, while insisting upon the right of
the owner, under admiralty rule 56, to contest its liability
and that of the vessel in that proceeding, prayed for an
appraisement of the vessel and her pending freight, for an
order for the payment of the amount of the appraisement
into court or the giving of a stipulation with sureties for
such payment whenever required, for the issuance of a
monition in the usual form and upon the usual condition,
for an order restraining the prosecution of the action in the
state court, for a decree limiting the owner's iliability, if
any, and for other appropriate relief. Although laying no
special basis for it, the petition also, in a general way,
indicated that the owner apprehended other claims and
actions of a like character, and the prayer for the monition and relief was so framed as to include them. After
other steps in the proceeding which need not be noticed,
the claimant answered alleging, in substance, that her

WHITE v. ISLAND TRANSPORTATION CO.
233 U. S.

349

Opinion of the Court.

claim was founded solely upon the owner's negligence in
that the hog-chain was part of the construction of the
vessel, and, with the knowledge and acquiescence of the
owner, was negligently left unboxed, uncovered and unguarded so that it endangered the passengers when upon
the deck, in the place regularly assigned to them, and that
her injury was caused by such negligence and not by any
fault of her own. In addition, the answer contained this
paragraph: "8th. The respondent further alleges that the
facts are such that the petitioner is not entitled to take
the benefit of the limited liability acts, and joins issue with
the petitioner thereon and asks that the court determine
this question before it proceeds further in the said matter."
The claimant also moved to dismiss the proceeding for
want of jurisdiction, upon the ground that the pleadings
showed that the injury was attributable to negligence of
the owner, and that the petition disclosed but one claim
and laid no basis for apprehending the existence of others.
The motion to dismiss was overruled, and an exception
reserved. The claimant elected to stand upon the motion
and refused to move further in the proceeding, whereupon,
proof of the allegations of the petition "being waived,"
a final decree was entered for the owner adjudging that
the claimant take nothing by the proceeding. This appeal followed, and a certificate was granted showing the
grounds of the motion, the court's ruling, and the exception. See Judicial Code, § 238.
The objection that the court was without jurisdiction,
because the pleadings showed that the damage was occasioned by the negligence of the owner, evidently resulted
from a misapprehension of what was in the pleadings.
So far were they from settling where the fault lay that they
put the matter directly in issue, the petition alleging that
the injury was occasioned without the owner's privity or
knowledge and the answer affirming that it was caused by
the owner's negligence and not otherwise. If the fact was

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Qpinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

as alleged in the petition, the case was within the statute,
for § 4283 declares: "The liability of the owner of any
.
for any act, matter, or thing, loss, damage,
vessel .
or forfeiture, done, occasioned, or incurred, without the
privity, or knowledge of such owner or owners, shall in no
case exceed the amount or value of the interest of such
owner in such vessel, and her freight then pending." And
while the claimant was at liberty,-under admiralty rule 56,
to contest the owner's right to a limitation of liability,
the decision of the question necessarily rested with the
court. Its jurisdiction was not dusted merely because the
claimant took issue with what was alleged in the petition.
Butler v. Boston Steamship Co., 130 U. S. 527, 552, 553.
The questions of fact so presented were to be settled by a
trial, and this was so whether the facts were jurisdictional
or otherwise. But there was no trial. Instead of insisting
that the allegations of the petition be proved, the claimant
expressly waived proof of them, thereby consenting that
they be taken as true. As they were plainly to the effect
that the injury was without the privity or knowledge of
the owner, there was no defect in the jurisdiction at that
point.
The objection that the court could not entertain the
proceeding, because the petition disclosed only one claim
arising out of the injury, is grounded upon the terms of
§§ 4284 and 4285, which require a pro rata distribution
of the value of the vessel and freight when not sufficient
to satisfy all claims, authorize proceedings to obtain the
benefit of the statute, make the surrender of the vessel
and freight for the benefit of claimants a sufficient compliance with the statute on the part of the owner, and declare that upon such surrender all claims and proceedings
against the owner shall cease. It must be conceded that
these sections, if taken alone, give color to the objection,
for, with a single exception, their words apparently contemplate a plurality of claims. But to a right understand-

WHITE v. ISLAND 'rRANSPORTATION CO.
233 U. S.

351

Opinion of the Court.

ing of these sections it is essential that they be read with
§ 4283. It contains the fundamental provision on which
the others turn. It broadly declares that "the liability

.

.

.

for any

.

.

.

damage

.

.

.

oc-

casioned . . . without the privity or knowledge of
such owner . . . shall in no case exceed" the value of
the vessel and freight. The succeeding sections are in the
nature of an appendix and relate to the proceedings by
which the first is to be made effective. Therefore, they
should be so construed as to bring them into correspondence with it. It was so held in Butler v. Boston Steamship
Co.; supra (pp. 550, 551), where it became necessary to
consider another difference in terms between them and it.
In that case this court said, quoting from a decision of the
Supreme Court of Rhode Island:" These sections [4284 and
4285], if we look only to the letter, apply only to injuries
and losses of property. The question is, therefore, whether
we shall by construction bring the three sections into correspondence by confining the scope of § 4283 to injuries
and losses of property, or by enlarging the scope of the two
other sections so as to include injuries to the person. We
think it is more reasonable to suppose that the designation
of losses and injuries in §§ 4284 and 4285 is imperfect, a
part being mentioned representatively for the whole, and
consequently that those sections were intended to extend
to injuries to the person as'well as'to injuries to property,
than it is to suppose that § 4283 was intended to extend
only to the latter class of injuries, and was inadvertently
couched in words of broader meaning." In the lower
Federal courts there has been some contrariety of opinion
upon the point now being considered, but the prevailing
view ha8 been that due regard for the broad terms and
dominant force of § 4283 requires that §§ 4284 and 4285
be construed as authorizing a proceeding for limitation of
liability whether there be a plurality of claims or only one.
Quinlan v. Pew, 56 Fed. Rep. 111,120; The S. A. McCaulley,

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Case.

233 U. S.

99 Fed. Rep. 302, 304; The Hoffmans, 171 Fed. Rep. 455,
4 7; Benedict's Admiralty, 4th ed., § 533. In the recent
case of Richardson v. Harmon, 212 U. S. 96, where there
was but a single claim, it was assumed by both court and
counsel that a plurality of claims was not essential. We
think that is the true view of the statute.
Decree affirmed.

FARRUGIA v. PHILADELPHIA & READING RAILWAY CQMPANY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 823.

Argued March 2, 1014.-Decided April 13, 191%.

The provision in § 238, Judicial Code, providing for a direct writ of
error in any case in which the jurisdiction of the court is in issue,
refers to cases in which the power of the court, as a Federal court,
to hear and determine the cause is in controversy.
Where that power is not in question, but only the sufficiency of the
evidence to establish an element of the plaintiff's asserted cause of
action, § 238, Judicial Code, does not apply and the writ of error
must be dismissed.
A decision of the District Court of the United States granting a compulsory non-suit in an action brought under the Employers' Liability Act because the evidence did not show that the plaintiff was
engaged in interstate commerce, is subject to review in the Circuit
Court of Appeals. A direct writ of error to this court under § 238,
Judicial Code, will not lie as the jurisdiction of the court as a Federal
court is not in issue.
THE facts, which involve the construction and application of the Employers' Liability Act, and the jurisdiction
of this court of a direct appeal from the District Court

under the Judicial Code, are stated in the opinion.

