OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

233 U. S.

EL PASO BRICK COMPANY, APPELLANT, v.-JOHN
H. McKNIGHT.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
NEW MEXICO.
No. 185.

Argued January 22, 23, 1914.-Decided April 6, 1914.

Locators of mining claims have the exclusive right of possession of
all the surface so long as they make the improvements or do the
annual assessment work required by Rev. Stat., § 2324. To convert
this defeasible possessory right into a fee simple the locator must
comply with the provisions of Rev. Stat., §§ 2325, 2333.
The entry by the local land officer issuing the final receipt to a locator
is in the nature of a judgment in rem and determines the validity of
locations, completion of assessment work and absence of adverse
claims.
The holder of a final receipt is in possession under an equitable title,
and until it is lawfully canceled is to be treated as though the patent
had been delivered to him. Dahl v. Raunheim, 132 U. S. 260.
While the General Land Office has power of supervision over acts of
local officers and can annul entries obtained by fraud or made without authority of law, it may not arbitrarily exercise this power; and
if a cancellation is made on mistake of law it is subject to judicial
review when properly drawn in question in judicial proceedings.
Under the policy of the land laws the United States is not an ordinary
proprietor selling land and seeking the highest price, but offers liberal terms to encourage the citizen and develop the country
Where there has been compliance with the substantial requirements
of the land laws, irregularities are waived or permission given to
cure them; and so held that, under the circumstances of this case,
as there had been, proper posting under Rev. Stat., §§ 2325 and 2333,
the fact that the original affidavit of posting. was made before an
officer residing outside the district and not within the district as required by § 2335, did not render the entry void. The defect was curable and cancellation of entry for that defect alone was improper.
The yielding of a locator holding a final receipt to an erroneous ruling
does not destroy the rights with which he has become vested by full
compliance with the requirements of Rev. Stat., § 2325..
Qucre, whether § 2135, Comp. Laws New Mexico, imposing upon a

EL PASO BRICK CO. v. McKNIGHT.
233 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

locator of mineral lands the burden of proving that he has performed
void as in conflict with the Federal
the annual assessment work, 'is
statutes. See Hammer v. Garfield, 130 U. S. 29.
Quore, whether an affidavit of work offered for one purpose by an
adverse claimant can be used for another purpose by the locator as
substantive evidence in the case.
A locator acquires no rights by locating on property that had previously been, and then was, segregated from the public domain.
16 New Mex. 721, reversed.

IN proceedings brought by McKnight to try the right of
possession to conflicting mining locations, it appeared that
the defendant, the El [.Paso Brick Company, was in
possession of the Aluminum International and Hortense
claims, constituting what was known as the Aluminum
group of placer mines. It held under locations made
prior to January, 1903. In 1905 the company decided to
apply for a patent to the land which embraced about 411
acres. Accordingly, on August 2, 1905, it filed with the
Register of the land office at Las Cruces, Dona Ana
County, New Mexico, an application for a patent together
with an affidavit (executed before an officer residing
outside-of the mining district) that notice of the application had been posted on the land. These papers were
filed with the Register who gave the further notice required by statute. No protest or adverse claim was filed
by any person. The Brick Company paid $1027.50, being
the purchase price fixed by Rev. Stat., § 2333, and on
October 23, 1905, the lnd officers allowed an entry on
.which the Receiver issued a final receipt-the material
portions of which were as follows:
"United States Land Office at Las Cruces, N. Mexico,
"October 23, 1905.
"Received from The El Paso Brick Company, E1Paso,
Texas, the sum of Ten hundred and twenty-seven and
50-100 dollars, the same being payment in full'for the
area embraced in that Mining Claim known as the 'Alum-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Case.

233 U. S.

inum Placer Group' unsurveyed . . . embracing
410.90 acres in the Brickland Mining District, in the
County of Dona Ana and Territory of New Mexico, as
shown by the survey thereof.
"$1027.50.
Henry D. Bowman, Receiver"
The entry and this final receipt prima facie entitleu the
Company to a patent, which however was not issued because various parties filed protests with'the Land Commissioner in which it was asserted that the Brick Company's locations were originally void, or if valid, had
been forfeited. It was also contended that the Company
was not entitled to a patent because the affidavit showing
the posting of the notice on the land had not been signed
before an officer residing within the land district as
provided in Rev. Stat., § 2335, which declares that "all
affidavits required to be made under this chapter [mining
laws] may be verified before any officer authorized to
administer oaths within the land district where the claims
may be situated."
Notice of these protests was given to the Brick Company which was allowed 60 days within which to show
cause why the entry should not be cancelled. "In response
numerous affidavits and exhibits designed to overcome the
objections were filed on behalf of the Company," among
which was a "supplementary affidavit with reference to
such posting and such claim which was in compliance with
the laws of the United States and was verified before a
proper officer."
On September 4, 1906, the Commissioner ruled that the
entry was fatally defective because the original affidavit
as to posting had not been executed before an officer
residing in the land district. From that ruling the Brick
Company appealed.
There was a hearing before the Assistant Secretary of
the Interior, who, on September 9, 1908, rendered a decision, 37 L. D. 155, in which,-after discussing the pro-

EL PASO BRICK CO. v. McKNIGHT.
233 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

visions of Rev. Stat., §§ 2325, 2335, and quoting from
various rulings of the Land Department and courts,-he
held that the fact that the affidavit of posting had been
signed before an officer residing outside of the district, was
a fatal defect, which invalidated the entire proceeding.
Among other things, he said (p. 159): "The defect is not a
mere irregularity which may be cured by the subsequent
filing of a properly verified affidavit. The statutory provisions involved are mandatory. Their observance is among
the essentials to the jurisdiction of the local officers to
entertain the patent proceedings. The requisite statutory
proof as to posting not having been theretofore filed, the
Register was without authority to direct the publication
of the notice or otherwise proceed; and the notice, although
in fact published and posted, being without the necessary
legal basis, was a nullity and ineffectual for any purpose.
The patent proceedings therefore fall and the entry will be
canceled."
The record further recites that on November 24, 1908,
the Brick Company waived its right to petition for a review of such decision and "thereupon such decision and
the cancellation of said entry became final and said entry
was cancelled on the records of the Land Office." On the
next day, November 25, 1908, the Brick Company filed at
the local land office a second application for patent.
McKnight thereupon filed an adverse claim in which he
set up that the land described in the Brick Company's
application embraced within its limits the Lulu and
Agnes claims which had been located by him in April, 1905,
and relocated in May, 19I06, at which time he also located
the Tip Top, Lynch and Aurora claims. The patent proceedings in the Local Land Office were stayed in order that
McKnight might, as provided in Rev. Stat., § 2326, bring
a suit in a court of competent jurisdiction to try the right
of possession.
On January 2, 1909, McKnight brought such suit in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Case.

233 U. S.

District of Dona Ana County, New Mexico. It was tried
November 8, 1909, before a judge without a jury. At the
hearing McKnight introduced the certificates of the locations described in his complaint and evidence tending to
show that he had done the required assessment work on
his five claims. In support of his contention that the
Brick Company had forfeited its rights, by failing to do the
annual assessment work, the record recites that he offered
'certified copies of proof filed by the Brick Company in
June, 1905, and December, 1906, for the purpose of showing, in connection with the testimony of the witness [the
keeper of the county records] that there had been no satisfactory proof of labor filed for any year previous to 1906."
These certified copies consisted of affidavits by the
President of the Brick Company that it had done more
than $5,000 worth of work on its locations during each of
the years 1903, 1904 and 1906. There was no ruling by
the court limiting the effect of the affidavits as evidence,
but it appears that McKnight contended that, as the
names of the persons actually doing the work were not
stated in the affidavit and as the first of the affidavits was
made in April, 1905, the burden of showing that the work
had actually been done for 1903 and 1904 was cast on the
Brick Company by virtue of the provisions of § 2315 of the
Compiled Laws of New Mexico.' The Brick Company, on
'"SEC. 2315. The owner or owners of any unpatented mining claim
in this Territory, located under the laws of the United States and of
this Territory, shall, within sixty days'from and after the time within
which the assessment work required by law to be done upon such claim
should have been done and performed, cause to be filed with the recorder of the county in which such mining claim is situated, an affidavit setting forth the time when such work was done, and the amount,
character, and actual cost thereof, together with the name or names
of the person or persons who performed such work; and such affidavit,
when made and filed as herein provided, shall be prima facie evidence
of the facts therein stated. The failure to make and file such affidavit
as herein provided shall, in any contest, suit or proceedings touching

EL PASO BRICK CO. v. McKNIGHT.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the other hand, appears to have contended that this
territorial statute was not only void as being in conflict
with the Federal statutes, but that the affidavits offered by
plaintiff showed on their face that many times the amount
of assessment work required had been done in 1903, 1904
and 1906, thus segregating the land from the public
domain and rendering McKnight's subsequent locations
nugatory.
At the conclusion of the evidence the court took the
case under advisement and on December 17, 1909, rendered a judgment for McKnight which was affirmed
(16 New Mex. 721) by the Supreme Court of New Mexico.
The case was then brought here on appeal.
Mr. Francis W. Clemer,.ts, with whom Mr. Aldis B.
Browne, Mr. Alexander Briton,Mr. Evans Browne, Mr. W.
A. Hawkins and Mr. John Franklin were on the brief, for
appellant.
Mr. Eugene S. Ives for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE LAMAR,

after making the foregoing state-

ment, delivered the opinion of the court.
McKnight brought suit against the El Paso Brick Company to try the right of possession to conflicting mining
locations. In his complaint he asserted his own title and
attacked that of the Defendant under locations older in
date but which he claimed had been forfeited by failure to
do the annual assessment work for 1903 and 1904, thereby
leaving the land open to the locations made by McKnight
in 1905 and 1906. The Brick Company, while insisting
that the plaintiff's own evidence proved that the assessthe title to such claim, throw the burden of proof upon the owner or
owners of such claim to show that such work has been done according to
law."

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

ment work had in fact been fully performed, relied on the
legal effect of the company's application for a Patent to
the land and the final receipt issued to it by the Receiver
of the Local Land Office in October, 1905. To this the
plaintiff replied that the entry, on which the receipt
issued, had been cancelled on the ground that the patent
proceedings were absolutely void because the statutory
affidavit of posting had not been filed.
1. Locators of mining claims have the exclusive right of
possession of all the surface included within the exterior
limits of their claims so long as they make the improvements or do the annual assessment work required by the
Revised Statutes, § 2324. The law, however, provides
(Rev. Stats., §§ 2325, 2333) a means by which the locator
can pay the purchase price fixed by statute and convert the
defeasible possessory title into a fee simple. Sixty days'
notice must be given in order that all persons having any
adverse claim may be heard in opposition to the issue of a
patent. That notice is threefold. It must be given by
publication in the nearest newspaper, by posting in the
Land Office, and by posting on the land itself, and it is
provided in the statute that this latter fact may be proved
by the affidavit of two persons before an officer residing
within the land district (Rev. Stat., § 2335). All persons
haying adverse claims under the mining laws may be
heard in objection to the issuance of a patent. But
(§ 2325) "if no adverse claim shall have been filed .
it shall be assumed that the applicant is entitled to a
patent, upon the payment to the proper officer of five
dollars per acre, and that no adverse claim exists; and
thereafter no objection from third persons to the issuance
of a patent shall be heard, except it be shown that the
applicant has failed to comply with the terms of this
chapter" [relating to mineral lands].
2. In the present case the Brick Company's application
for a patent was filed, each of the several forms of notice

EL PASO BRICK CO. v. McKNIGHT.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

required by statute was given, no adverse claim was filed,
the purchase price was paid to the Government, and a
final receipt was issued by the local land office. The entry
by the local land officer issuing the final receipt Was in the
nature of a judgment in rem (Wight v. Dubois, 21 Fed.
Rep. 693) and determined that the Brick Company's
original locations were valid and that everything necessary
to keep them in force, including the annual assessment
work, had been done. It also adjudicated that no adverse
claim existed and that the Brick Company was entitled to
a patent.
From that date, and until the entry was lawfully cancelled, the Brick Company was in possession under an
equitable title, and to be treated as "though the patent had
been delivered to" it. Dahl v. Raunheim, 132 U. S. 260,
262. And, when McKnight instituted possessory proceedings against the Brick Company, the latter was entitled to a judgment in its favor when it produced that
final receipt as proof that it was entitled to a patent and to
the corresponding right of an owner.
Nor should the result have been different when the
record showed that the entry and final receipt, properly
issued, had been improperly cancelled. It is true that the
order of the Department was a denial of the patent, but
it was not a conclusive adjudication that the Brick Company was not entitled to a patent, nor could such an order
deprive the Brick Company of rights vested in it by law.
For while the General Land Office had power of supervision over the acts of the local officers, and could annul
entries obtained by fraud or made without authority of
law, yet if the Department's canceflation was based upon a
mistake of law, its ruling was subject to judicial review
when properly drawn in question in judicial proceedings,
inasmuch as the power of the Land Office is not unlimited
nor can it be arbitrarily exercised so as to deprive any
person of land lawfully entered and paid for. Corneliusv.
VOL. CCXXXIII-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

Kessel, 128 U. S. 456, 461; Parsons v. Venzke, 164 U. S.
89.
3. So that the case involves a determination of the
single question as to whether the patent was properly
refused by the Land Department because of the objection
that the Brick Company had failed to comply with the
terms of the law relating to Mineral Land. Rev. Stat.,
§ 2325. That can be determined by an inspection of the
record, in which the order appears. It shows that the
cancellation of the entry was not based on the Brick
Company's failure to do the annual assessment work, or to
give the proper notice, or to pay the statutory price, but
solely for the reason that the affidavit of posting was
executed before an officer who resided outside of the land
district.
That decision (37 L. D. 155), though supported by some
Departmental rulings of comparatively recent date, was
in conflict with the established practice of the Land Department, and was expressly and by name overruled,
on July 29, 1911, in Ex parte Stock Oil Company, 40 L. D.
198, which reaffirmed prior decisions to the effect that
irregularities in proof, including the execution of affidavits
before other than the designated officers, might be supplied,
even on appeal.
These and similar rulings, previously followed in the
Department, are manifestly correct. They accord with
the policy of the land laws,. under which the United States
does not act as an ordinary proprietor seeking to sell real
estate at the highest possible price, but offers it on liberal
terms to encourage the citizen and to develop the country.
The Government does not deal at arm's length with the
settler or locator and whenever it appears that there has
been a compliance with the substantial requirements of the
law, irregularities are waived or permission is given, even
on appeal, to cure them by supplemental proofs. United
States v. Marshall Mining Co., 129 U. S. 579, 587. In

EL PASO BRICK CO. v. McKNIGHT.
233 U. S.

259'

Opinion cf the Court.

the present case such proof by supplemental affidavits,
properly executed, showed that the land had been properly
posted. But that fact was not allowed to have any effect
because of the mistaken view that,-as the original affidavit
of posting had been signed before an officer residing outside of the land district, the patent proceedings were absolutely void. This confused service by proper postingwhich was jurisdictional,--with defective proof of such
service which-like the defective return of an officer,could be corrected. Under the law, jurisdiction depended
upon giving notice by publication in a newspaper, by
posting in the land office, and by posting on the land itself,
-the statute directing how the giving of such notice should
be proved. But irregularities in complying with such
directory provision could be cured, and when cured, as
it was here, the patent should have been issued. The
cancellation of the entry was based on a plain error of
law, and though there was no appeal in fact, and no right
of appeal to the courts, the ruling did not operate to deprive the Brick Company of its property in the mines.
The fact that the Brick Company, perforce, yielded to
the erroneous ruling, and instituted new proceedings in
order to secure a patent, as evidence of its title, did not
destroy the rights with which the Company had become
invested by full compliance with the requirements of Rev.
Stat., § 2325. When, therefore, in the suit to try the right
of possession the plaintiff asked that proper effect be given
to the final receipt and the entry on which it was based
as a judgment in rem, it was not making, as is contended,
a collateral attack on the order of the Land Department,
but was merely relying on the valid entry and asking the
court to decline to give effect to the erroneous cancellation.
4. This conclusion makes it unnecessary to decide the
question as to whether the territorial statute, imposing
upon the locator the burden of proving that he has performed the annual assessment work, is void as being in

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

conflict with the Federal statutes, which require no such
annual proof, raise no presumption of abandonment and
as construed in Hammer v. Garfield, 130 U. S. 291, demand
clear and convincing proof that work. has not been done
before a forfeiture can be declared. It also makes it unnecessary to determine whether the affidavit of work
being offered for one purpose by McKnight could be used
for another purpose by the Brick Company as substantive
evidence, in the case.
Many pages of the briefs are devoted to a discussion of
these questions, but if any of them were decided in favor
of the Brick Company it could not increase its rights. If
the legal propositions involved could be decided in favor
of McKnight that could not overcome the fact that the
issuance 'of the final receipt to the Brick Company on
October 23, 1905, was an adjudication not only that the
Brick Company was entitled to a patent, but that McKnight then had no adverse claim to the land. Of course
he acquired none in May, 1906, by locating-on property
that had previously been and then was segregated from
the public domain.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory
of New Mexico is reversed and the case is -remanded to the
Supreme Court of the State of New Mexico for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

