CARLESI v. NEW YORK.
233 U. S.

Syllabus.

CARLESI v. PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF NEW
YORK
ERROR TO THE COURT OF GENERAL SESSIONS OF THE PEACE
IN AND FOR THE COUNTY OF NEW YORK, STATE OF, NEW
YORK.
No. 679.

Argued March 2, R914.-Decided April 6, 1914.

In testing the repugnancy of a state statute to the Federal Constitution, this court must accept the construction given to the statute by
the state courts.
A State may not directly or indirectly restrict the National Government
in the exertion of its legitimate 'powers, nor can a State in any way
punish a crime after the President of the United States has pardoned
the offender.
Taking into consideration the fact that a persdn convicted of a crime
against the State had previously committed the same crime against
the United States is not a punishment of the former crime and does
not deprive the person convicted of any Federal rights under a pardon of the President of the United States of the first offense.
McDonald v. Massachusetts, 180 U. S. 311, and Graham v. West Virginia, 224 U. S. 616, followed to the effect that the state statute involved in this case, and which imposed heavier penalties for second
offenses, whether the first offense was committed in the same or in
another jurisdiction, does not impose additional punishment for the
first offense but only imposes a punishment on the crime for which the
person convicted is tried.
The granting of a pardon by the President for a crime committed
against the United States does not operate to restrict the-power of a
State to punish er'mes thereafter committed against its authority and
to prescribe such penalties as it deems appropriate in view of the
nature of the offense and the character of the offender taking in view
his past conduct; and so held that the second offense provisions of the
Penal Code of New York are not unconstitutional as applied to a
person convicted of the same crime of which he had been previously convicted by the United States and pardoned by the President.
Quwre, whether a State may not provide that the fact of the commission
of an offense after a pardon of a prior offense by it or another sov-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

233 U. S.

ereignty should be regarded as an increased element of aggravation
to the second offense to be considered in adding to the punishment
therefor.
Judgment based on 208 N. Y. 547, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the construction and constitutionality of the second offense statute of New York and
the effect of a pardon of the accused by the President of
the United States for the first offense, are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. Almuth C. Vandiver, with whom Mr. George Gordon
Battle, Mr. John Caldwell Myers, Mr. James E. Brande,
Mr. Joseph Weber and Mr. J. Joseph Lilly were on the
brief, for plaintiff in error:
The New York state court passed judgment upon plaintiff in error, after verdict of conviction of an alleged crime
non-existent in New York; and the failure of the state
court to recognize and give full force and effect to the
President's pardon, denied to plaintiff in error the privilege, immunity and liberty guaranteed to him by § 1 of
the Fourteenth Amendment.
Plaintiff in error was convicted of the alleged crime of
forgery in the second degree, as a second offense. There
is no such crime known to the penal law of the State of
New York. See §§ 887, 888, Penal Law of New York.
The pardon granted by the President of the United
States reaches both the punishment prescribed for the
offense and the'guilt of the offender and releases the punishment and blots out of existence the guilt, so that in the
eye of the law the offender is as innocent as if he had never
committed the offense. Ex parte Garland, 4 Wall. 380..
Plaintiff in error would also have been entitled to the
court's clemency in suspending judgment if the court was
so moved to do. Section 2189 of the Penal Law of New
York is a substantial right, privilege and immunity from
punishment for crime.

CARLESI v. NEW YORK.

233 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The first offense was so completely annihilated by the
pardon that it could not be considered in law as having ever
existed or been committed. De Villeneuve & Carrette,
Vol. 1825, 1827, Part 1, p. 135; Knote v. United States, 95
U. S. 153; United States v. Kirby, 7 Wall. 482.
The President's pardon obliterated the first offense, so
that the plaintiff in error could not thereafter be prosecuted
as a second offender. United States v. Wilson, 7 Pet. 150,
159; Ex parte Garland, 4 Wall. 380, 381; 24 Am. & Eng.
Ency., 2nd ed., p. 584. See also United States v. Klein,
13 Wall. 147; Carlisle v. United States, 16 Wall. 151; In re
Monroe, 46 Fed. Rep. 52; United States v. Armory, 35
Georgia, 362; 2 Abb. (U. S.) 150; Fed. Cas. No. 14473;
People v. Pease, 3 Johns. Cases (N. Y.), 333; Locklin v.
State, 75 S.W. Rep. 305.
It is of the very essence of a pardon that it releases the
offender from the consequences of his offense. Osborn v.
United States, 91 U. S. 474, 477; 29 Cyc. 1566, 1567;
Territory v. Richardson, 9 Oklahoma, 579; Territory v.
Richardson, 10 Oklahoma, 17; Knapp v. Thomas, 39 Oh.
St. 377, 381; Diehl v. Rogers, 169 Pa. St. 316; Fite v.
State, 114 Tennessee; 646, 656; Parground v. United
States, 13 Wall. 156; United States v. Padleford, 9 Wall.
513; Boyd v. United States, 142 U. S.450; 1 Bishop's New
Crim. Law, § 919.
For decisions of state courts in regard to the effect of
pardons on second offenses, zee Edwards v. Commonwealth,
78 Virginia, 39; Puryear v. Commonwealth, 83 Virginia,
51; State v. Martin, 59 Oh. St. 212.; State v. Anderson, 7
Oh. N. P. 562; S. C., 5 Ohio S. & C. P. Decisions, 548;
State v. Williams, 7 Ohio, 562.
Mount v. Commonwealth, 2 Duvall (Ky.), 93; Stewart v..
Commonwealth, 2 Ky. Law Rep. 386, and Herndon v. Commonwealth, 105 Kentucky, 197, are unsound, as is the reasoning upon which they are based; and see Easterwood v.
State, 34 Tex. Crim. 400, 4:10; Jones v. Alcorn County,

54

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

233 U. S.

56 Mississippi, 736; Perkins v. Stevens, 24 Pick. 277; In
re Deming, 2 Johns. (N. Y.), 233, 483; 24 Amer. & Eng.
Ency., 2d ed., 589; Coddington v. Wilkins, Hob. 81;
Leyman v. Lattimer, 3 Exch. Div. 15, 352. See, however, Baum v. Close, 5 Hill (N. Y.), 196. As to the English rule, see 33 and 34 Victoria, c. 29, § 14, and under it
Hay v. Justice of London, 24 Q. B. D. 561.
No matter what the purpose of the pardon was, and no
matter what the reason was for issuing it, it restored the
civil rights of plaintiff in error, was full, absolute and
unconditional. Boyd v. United States, 142 U. S. 450;
Bowles v. Haberman, 95 N. Y. 247.
The pardon should be liberally construed. Ex parte
Hunt, 10 Arkansas, 284, 286; 24 Amer. & Eng. Ency.
574; 11 Ops. Atty. Gen. 230; People v. Pease, 3 Johns.
(N. Y.) 333; Osborn v. United States, 91 U. S. 474.
The pardon obliterated the former conviction, though
it was granted after the completion of the term of imprisonment. See Laughlin, J.'s, concurring opinion 154
App. Div. 487, 488; 24 Amer. & Eng. Ency., 2d ed.,
p. 594; United States v. Jones, 2 Wheeler Crim. (N. Y.), 451;
9 Op. Attorney General, 478; Singleton v. State, 38 Florida,
297; State v. Baptiste, 26 La. Ann. 134; Satton v. McIlhany, 1 Oh. Dec. 235; Stetler's Case, 2 Phila. (Pa.), 302;
9 Legal Int. 38; Boyd v. United States, 142 U. S. 450.
This court should follow the rule originally laid down
in the Wilson Case, 7 Peters, 160, and followed in cases
supra, and Armstrong v. United States, 13 Wall. 154;
United States v. Hart, 118 U. S. 67; Ill. Cent. R. R. v.
Bosworth, 133 U. S. 103; United States v. Brown, 161 U. S.
601; Graham v. West Virginia, 224 U. S. 616.
The New York legislature by expressly repealing the
second offense statute specifically including recipients
of pardons, intended to, and did, exempt such persons
from the operation of the present law. Section 1941,
Penal Law; § 688, old Penal Code; Laws 1881, c. 676, § 688;

CARLESI v. N*EW YORK.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Laws 1886, c. 593, § 1, par. 4; § 8, Pt. 4, c. I, title 7, Rev.
Stat. Nevi York; § 10, Pt. 4, c. I, title 7, Rev. Stat.
New York; Rich v. Keyser, 54 Pa. St. 86.
The Federal question of the effect of the President's
pardon was properly raised in the state court, and this
court has jurisdiction to hear this appeal. Judicial Code,
§ 237; Straus v. Amer. Publishers' Assn., 231 U. S. 222.
Mr. Robert S. Johnstone, with whom Mr. Charles S.
Whitman and Mr. Stanley L. Richter were on the brief,
for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHi1%s

delivered the opinion of the

court.
The plaintiff in error was accused of the crime "of
forgery in the second degree as a second offense." The
indictment contained a recital of the prior offense relied
on, that is, a conviction in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of New York, and a
sentence for three and one.-half years in the penitentiary
for the crime of selling and having in possession counterfeit coin. The statute of the State of New York, which was
the authority for referring to the prior conviction was as
follows:
"A person, who, after having been convicted within
this State, of a felony, or an attempt to commit a felony,
or of petit larceny, or, under the laws of any other State,
government, or country,, of a crime which, if committed
within this State, would be a felony, commits any crime,
within this State, is punishable upon conviction of such
second offense, as follows:
"1. If the subsequent crime is such that, upon a first
conviction, the offender might be punished, in the discretion of the court, by imprisonment for life, he must be
sentenced to imprisonment in a state prison for life;

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

"2. If the subsequent crime is such that, upon a first
conviction, the offender would'be punishable by imprisonment for any term less than his natural life, then such
person must be sentenced to imprisonment for a term not
less than the longest term, nor more than twice the
longest term, prescribed upon a first conviction." (Penal
Law, § 1941.)
The accused pleaded not guilty and while admitting
the truth of the recitals in the indictment as to his prior
conviction, sentence and service of time in the penitentiary, moved to strike from the indictment all reference
to those subjects and insisted on his right to be tried
without at all considering or in any manner referring to
the prior conviction and sentence on the ground of a
pardon granted to him by the President of the United
States after he had completed his term of service under
the prior conviction. The pardon relied upon was offered
in evidence. On the trial which followed the refusal of
the court to grant the motion to strike out or to rule as
requested, the alleged Federal right based upon the pardon
was further urged upon the court in every conceivable
form and was adversely acted upon, and after conviction
was also pressed and adversely passed upon in both the
Appellate Division (154 App. Div. 481) and in the Court
of Appeals of New York (208 N. Y. 547). And it is the
adverse ruling of the Court of Appeals concerning such
asserted Federal right which forms the sole basis for this
writ of error, addressed to the trial court because of the
action of the Court of Appeals in remitting the entire record to that court.
The arguments at bar cover a wider field than is essential
to be considered in order to pass upon the question for
decision. As the state courts held that the statute directed
the consideration of the prior conviction despite the pardon, we must treat the case as if the statute so expressly
commanded and test its repugnancy to the Constitution

CARLESI v. NEW YORK.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the United States upon that assumption. The issue
is a narrow one and involves not the determination of the
operation and effect of a pardon within the jurisdiction
of the sovereignty granting it, but simply requires it to be
decided how far a pardon granted as to an offense committed against the United States operates so to speak
extra-territorially as a limitation upon the States excluding them from considering the conviction of a prior
and pardoned offense against the United States in a
prosecution for a subsequent state offense. It may not be
questioned that the States are without right directly or indirectly to restrict the National Government in the exertion of its legitimate powers. It is therefore to be conceded
that if the act of the State in taking into consideration
a prior conviction of an offense committed by the same
offender against the laws of the United States despite a
pardon was in any just sense a punishment for such prior
crime, that the act of the State would be void because
destroying or circumscribing the effect of the pardon
granted under the Constitution and laws of the United
States. And of course, conversely, it must be conceded
that if it be that the act of the State in taking into consideration a prior offense committed against the United
States after pardon under the circumstances stated was
not in any degree a punishment for the prior crime but
was simply an exercise by the State of a local power
within its exclusive cognizance, there could be no violation of the Constitution of the United States. The whole
controversy therefore is to be resolved by fixing the nature
and character of the action of the State under the circumstances for the purpose of deciding under which of these
two categories it is to be classed. When the issue is thus
defined and-limited its solution is free from difficulty as
it has been repeatedly and conclusively foreclosed by the
prior adjudications of this court.
In McDonald v. Mas'achusetts, 180 U. S. 311, the court

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

considered and adversely disposed of a contention that a
statute of the State of Massachusetts was repugnant to
the Constitution of the United States because it provided
for a punishment as an habitual criminal of any person
convicted of a felony in Massachusetts who was found to
have been "twice convicted of crime, sentenced and committed to prison, in this or any other State, or once in this
and once at least in any other State, . . ." In holding that the statute was not in conflict with the Constitution, the court said, pp. 312, 313:
"The fundamental mistake of the plaintiff in error is his
assumption that the judgment below imposes an additional
punishment on crimes for which he had already been convicted and punished in Massachusetts and New Hampshire.
"But it does no such thing. The statute under which
it was rendered is aimed at habitual criminals; and simply
imposes a heavy penalty upon conviction of a felony committed in Massachusetts since its passage, by one who had
been twice convicted and imprisoned for crime for not
less than three years, in this, or in another State, or once
in each. The punishment is for the new crime only, but
It is
is the heavier if hd is an habitual criminal. . .
within the discretion of the legislature of the State to
treat former imprisonment in another State, as having
the like effect as imprisonment in Massachusetts, to show
that the man is an habitual criminal. . . . The
statute, imposing a punishment or none but future crimes,
is not ex post facto. It affects alike all persons similarly
situated, and therefore does not deprive any one of the
equal protection of the laws. Moore v. Missouri, 159
U. S. 673; Ross's Case, 2 Pick. 165; Commonwealth v.
Graves, 155 Massachusetts, 163; Sturtevant v. Commonwealth, 158 Massachusetts, 598; Commonwealth v. Richardson, 175 Massachusetts, 202.
"The statute does not impair the right of trial by jury,

CARLESI v. NEW YORK.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

or put the accused twice in jeopardy for the same offense,
-or impose a cruel or unusual punishment." The subject
again came under consideration in Graham v. West Virginia, 224 U. S. 616, and was reiexamined in all its aspects
and after a full reference to the English and American
authorities, the doctrine announced in the McDonald Case
was reexpounded and re-applied so as to noW leave no
room for any further controversy whatsoever on the
subject. Applying the principles thus settled, the case
before us clearly comes within the second category which
we have stated and therefore the contention as to the effect
of the pardon here pressed i.s devoid of all merit and the
court below was right in so holding.
Determiing as we do only the case before us, that is,
whether the granting of a pardon by the President for
a crime committed against the United States operates
to restrict and limit the power of the State of New York
to punish crimes thereafter committed against its authority and in so doing to prescribe such penalties as
may be deemed appropriate in view of the nature of the
offense and the character of the offender taking in view
his past conduct, we must, not be understood as in the
slightest degree intimating that a pardon would operate
to limit the power of the United States in punishing crimes
against its authority to provide for taking into consideration past offenses committed by the accused as a circumstance of aggravation even although for such past offenses
there had been a pardon granted.
Indeed, we must not be understood as intimating that
it would be beyond the legislative competency to provide
that the fact of the commission of an offense after a pardon
of a prior offense, should be considered as adding an increased element of aggravation to that which would .otherwise result alone from the commission of the prior offense.
Affirmed.

