ARIZONA v. COPPER QUEEN MINING CO.
233 U. S.

87

Syllabus.

for thirty years was all that the plaintiff was entitled to,
whereas she was given the principal of 920,000 out and
out. it may ,be admitted that if it were true that the
excess appeared as matter of law; that if, for instance, the
statute fixed a maximum and the verdict exceeded it, a
question might arise for this court. But a case 'of mere
excess upon the evidence is a matter to be dealt with by the
trial court. It does not present a question for reexamination here upon a writ of error. Lincoln v. Power, 151 U. S.
436. Herencia v. Guzman, 219 U. S. 44, 45. The premises
of the argument for the plaintiff in error were not conclusive upon the jury, and although the verdict may seem
to us too large, no such error appears as to warrant our
imputing to judge and jury a connivance in escaping the
limits of the law.
Judgment affirmed.

TERRITORY OF ARIZONA AT THE RELATION
OF GAINES, TAX COLLECTOR OF COCHISE
COUNTY, . COPPER QUEEN CONSOLIDATED
MINING COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
ARIZONA.

No. 89.

Argued March 3, 4, 1914.-Decided April 6, 1914.

Where the Supreme Court of a Territory has made a statement of
facts in the nature of a special verdict, this court must consider the
case when it comes here on appeal upon that finding.
In exercising appellate jurisdiction over the territorial courts in cases
involving construction of a statute by the Territory, this court will
not, in the absence of manifest error, reverse the action of the territorial court in regard to such construction; and so held as-to the construction placed by the Supreme Court of Arizona on the statutes of
that Territory defining the powers and duties of the Board of Equalization.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

In this case held that payments of taxes made under an attempted compromise agreement did not operate to estop the taxpayer from contesting the legality of the action of the taxing authorities in increasing the assessments on the property.
In this case this court affirms the judgment of the Supreme Court of
the Territory of Arizona that the Board of Equalization had no

power under the statute of the Territory to raise the separate assessed
valuation of certain mining claims of groups which had originally
been assessed en masse.
13 Arizona, 198, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the construction of the statutes
of Arizona regarding valuation assessments for taxation,
are stated in the opinion.:

Mr. Elias S. Clark and Mr. George P. Bullard, Attorney
General of Arizona, with whom Mr. William G. Gilmore and
Mr. William C. Prentisswere on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Frederick N. Judson, with whom Mr. E. E. Ellinwood and Mr. John F. Green were on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a special statutory proceeding (Laws of Territory of Arizona, 1903, Act No. 92, p. 148) brought in the
District Court of the Second Judicial District of the
Territory of Arizona in and for the County of Cochise to
enforce the lien of the Territory for the payment of taxes
for the year 1901 assessed against certain patented mining
claims in the County of Cochise, amounting to $120,039.35,
the fax being assessed upon the increased valuation of the
mining claims of the Company made by the Board of
Supervisors of Cochise County. In the trial court judgment was rendered for the defendant. Upon appeal to
the Supreme Court of the Territory of Arizona the judgment was affirmed (13 Arizona, 198). An appeal was
prosecuted to this court under the statute regulating appeals from territorial courts (18 Stat. 27).

ARIZONA v. COPPER QUEEN MINING CO.
233 U. S.

89

Opinion of the Court.

The Supreme Court of the Territory of Arizona made
of facts in the nature of a special verdict, and
statement
a
upon that finding this court must consider the case on
this appeal. Eagle Mining Co. v. Hamilton, 218 U. S. 513,
515; Zeckendorf v. Steinfeld, 225 U. S. 445, 449. From the
facts thus found the following appears:
The appellee, a corporation doing business and owning
real and personal property in Cochise County, Arizona,
listed and returned for assessment in 1901 sixty-five mining claims belonging to it, by name, but as one tract, said
to contain 636 acres and valued at $3,180, with improvements valued at $55,431.76. Some of the claims are not
contiguous to the others.
On July 17, 1901, the County Board of Supervisors,
sitting as the Board of Equalization for Cochise County,
after notice to the Company and hearing at which appellee's superintendent and agent appeared, raised the
assessment upon eight of the sixty-five claims originally
assessed en masse, in amounts varying from $50,000 to
$1,000,000.
Prior to September, 1901, the appellee brought suit in
the District Court of Cochise County to enjoin the collection of the tax, alleging that the increase had been
fraudulently made and the property overvalued. It
tendered the sum of $14,133.12, being the amount of the
tax upon all of its property before the increase. The District Court found that the increase was not based upon
information or evidence but was made arbitrarily and
capriciously for the purpose of imposing an unjust share
of the burden of taxation. upon the appellee, and granted
the injunction, upon condition, however, that the appellee
pay the $14,133.12 into court and also the further sum of
$9,589.20, the tax upon the increase in valuation of certain
personal property, which the District Court found to be
valid. The $14,133.12 was accepted by the County Treasurer, who was ex officio t;ax collector, "on account of any

OCTOI ER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

moneys which might ultimately be determined as due from
said company for its taxes for said year." The Supreme
Court, upon appeal, reversed the case and remanded it for
new trial (County of Cochise v. Copper Queen Co., 8 Arizona, 221). Subsequently, an agreement of compromise
was made, under authority of a resolution of the Board of
Supervisors, the appellee paying the further sum of
$5,661.44 in full settlement of taxes for the year 1901 and
the injunction suit being dismissed. This last amount
has been retained by the County.
Thereafter a mandamus suit was instituted to compel
the tax collector to commence suit against the appellee for
the balance of the 1901 tax, upon the ground that the compromise was void. The Supreme Court held that the
Board of Supervisors had no authority to compromise the
tax and granted the writ (Territory v. Gaines, 11 Arizona,
270), in pursuance of which the present action was instituted.
The uncontradicted testimony showed that the raise
in the assessment of the eight claims was not based upon
evidence as to value and that it was in fact arbitrary, and
also that some of the claims were assessed far in excess of
their full cash value. The duplicate assessment roll made
out by the assessor contained the increase made by the
Board of Equalization, the eight claims which were raised
being separately itemized by name, with the amounts of
the respective increases set opposite the names, but with
no statement of their original valuation or the total valuation of them or any of them.
On the third Monday of December, 1901, the tax being
unpaid, the tax collector turned in the delinquent list,
certified by the Board, giving the property of the defendant as shown in the assessment returned by the appellee,
with the increases as they appeared on the duplicate assessment roll.
Under the 1903 law delinquent property was carried

ARIZONA v. COPPER QUEEN MINING CO.
233 U. S.

91

Opinion of the Court.

into the back-tax book of that year, and this suit was
brought to foreclose the Territory's lien upon the pieces of
property therein appearing. That book, which was-put in
evidence, gave the appellee's property, its total Valuation,
total tax, amount paid on account and balance due. In
enumerating the several tracts remaining unredeemed it
showed sixty-fiye mining claims, containing 636 acres,
valued en masse, at $3,180 with improvements at $55,431,
and named sixty-four claims; the number of acres, and all
other valuations for real estate and improvements were
the same as in the other lists; and the list of increased
valuations of the several claims and improvements were
shown, but no, total valuation of such separate pieces of
property after the addition of the increase was given.
The discrepancies in description of the claims between
the complaint and the tax documents are stated, and
mention is made that in none of the latter is the total assessed valuation of any individual piece, of real estate or
the amount of taxes due on any of the separate claims
disclosed. And it is said that the testimony of the assessor
showed that there were 280 patented mining claims in
Cochise County at the time the 1901 assessment was
made, and that they were and had been assessed at a uniform rate of $5.00 per acre as a rule.
In its opinion the Supreme Court stated that the most
important question raised upon the record was the validity
of the action of the Board of Supervisors, sitting as a
Board of Equalization, in. raising the assessment upon
eight of the group of sixty-five claims originally assessed
en masse. After stating the minutes of the Board's action
the court quotes ยง 2654 of the Revised Statutes of 1887
(p. 209):
" . .The board of equalization shall have power
to determine whether the assessed value of any property
is too small or too great, and may change and correct any
valuation, either by adding thereto or deducting there-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

from, if the sum fixed in the assessment-roll be too small or
too great, whether said sum was fixed by the owner or the
assessor; . . . and the clerk of the board of equalization shall note upon the assessment-roll all changes made
by the board; During the session of the board of equalization the assessor shall be present, and also any deputy
whose testimony may be required by the parties appealing to the board, and they shall have the right to make any
statement touching such assessment, and producing evidence relating to questions before the board, and the board
of equalization shall make use of all other information
that they can gain otherwise, in equalizing the assessmentroll of the county, and may require the assessor to enter
upon such assessment-roll any other property, which has
not been assessed; and the assessment and equalization
so made shall have the same force and effect as if made by
the assessor before the delivery of the assessment-roll to
(by) him by (to) the clerk of the board of equalization.
The court said (p. 212)"
"It is apparent from an examination of this roll [the
duplicate assessment roll] that there are in effect two assessments for the same year against each of the eight
claims raised. One, an assessment, commingles with that
of sixty-four other claims, en bloc; the other, separate and
distinct. This is no mere Irregularity. The legality of
the original assessment as an entirety has been sustained
solely upon the ground that the property was so returned
by the taxpayer. The board disregarded such return, and
the validity of its action must be determined under the
statute alone. It might be argued successfully that had
the board of supervisors raised the assessment upon the
group, such a raise would have been valid. But the board
segregated from the group certain claims, and imposed
thereon an additional assessment. It is a fundamental
rule of taxation in this territory that a taxpayer may pay

ARIZONA v. COPPER QUEEN MINING CO.
233 U. S.

93

Opinion of the Court.

upon any one of parcels separately assessed, discharging
the lien thereon, without paying upon the remainder.
Rev. Stats., 1887, par. 2676.
"By the action of which complaint is made here, the
board deprived the appellee of this right. Upon the raise
being made it had the legal right to determine upon which,
if any, of the claims so raised it would pay. If it determined to pay upon none, it was nevertheless obliged to
pay a portion of the tax thereon if it exercised its right
to pay upon the fifty-seven claims remaining, for the tax
collector, under paragraph 2676, supra (reenacted, paragraph 3900, Revised Statutes of 1901), could not receive
the tax upon less than the entire sixty-five claims, that
being the least subdivision appearing on the assessmentroll. If it determined to pay upon one or more of the eight
so raised, and to abandon the remainder, it would have to
pay the tax upon the raise, together with the tax upon the
entire sixty-five claims as originally assessed. The undisputed testimony discloses that these claims were noncontiguous, in instances which would have invalidated an
original assessment, except for the return. The board in
raising this assessment disregarded the original classification, which has been held good as against the appellee
solely by reason of its return. The board of supervisors,
sitting as a board of equalization, had no power under
paragraph 2654 of the Revised Statutes of 1887 to segregate, from a tract of land returned and assessed as one
parcel, a portion thereof and impose thereon an additional
assessment, without first determining that such tract was
improperly assessed as a whole, and causing such tract to
be re-assessed and raised in subdivisions in such manner
as to preserve the right of the taxpayer to discharge the
lien of taxes upon such of the several separate tracts as
he might elect."
It is evident that in reaching this conclusion the Su-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

preme Court based its decision upon its construction of
the statute in this respect. In exercising appellate jurisdiction over the territorial courts, where the construction placed upon a statute of the Territory by the highest
court thereof is brought in question, this cout has frequently held that it will not reverse the action of the
territorial court except in cases where manifest error in
such construction appears. Straus v. Foxworth, 231 U. S.
162; Phoenix Railway Co. v. Landis, 231 U. S. 578; Work
v. United Globe Mines, 231 U. S. 595. Applying this
rule we are not prepared to say that there was manifest
error in the conclusion reached by the Supreme Court in
construing the statute. Indeed, the appellant in its brief
filed in this case extracts from its motion for rehearing in
the court below and prints as a part of its argument a
statement to the effect that it is convinced that the
board could not lawfully segregate the eight claims from
the mass and raise the valuation separately, there being
no separate assessment originally; but it contends that
the value of the whole tract is equal to all its parts, so that
when the value of a part is raised it merely increases the
aggregate value of the whole tract. We are not prepared
to say that the Arizona Supreme Court erred in its conclusion concerning what the Board actually did. The
original assessment as the finding shows, contains a return
of sixty-five mining claims, naming them as 636 acres of
land. There was no separate statement of the amount of
acreage in any one claim. The claims were not described
except by name, and that as a part of the 636 acres returned as a whole. The Supreme Court found, and we
think correctly, that the reassessment picked out eight
claims by name and raised the valuation of each by a given
sum.
It is further contended by the appellant that certain
things have happened as set forth in the findings which
amount to an estoppel upon the appellee from denying

ARIZONA v. COPPER QUEEN MINING CO.
233 U. S.

95

Opinion of the Court.

the right to have a lien charged, as claimed in this proceeding, upon specific property and to have the lien enforced by
the sale of the specific lot or tract covered by it. The
statute (part of which is quoted' in the margin 1) is a
peculiar one and is said to have been adopted from the
statutes of Missouri. It provides for a civil action against
the owners of the property, to the end that a lien be
charged upon land the taxes on which have become delinquent and that such lien be foreclosed. In Missouri it
has been decided that no personal judgment shall be rendered in the proceedings against the owner of the property,
nor any execution issue except upon the property charged
with the tax. State ex rel. Rosenblatt v. Sargeant, 76 Missouri, 557; State ex rel. Hayes v. Snyder, 139 Missouri, 549.
And the Supreme Court of the Territory of Arizona held
that the construction of the statute by the court of last
resort of Missouri was binding upon it.
In such a proceeding it is difficult to see how the principles of estoppel because of the description of the land
made by the owner in returning the property or the payment of taxes, as appears from the finding in this case,
could have application. Estoppel ordinarily proceeds
upon principles which prevent one from denying the
truth of statements' upon which others have acted where
the denial would have the effect to mislead them to their
prejudice. In this case the Territory is undertaking to
1The judgment, if against the defendant, shall describe the land
upon which the taxes are found to be due, shall state the amount of
taxes and interest found to be due upon each tract or lot, and the year
or years for which the same are due, up to the rendition thereof, and
shall decree that the lien of the Territory be enforced, and that the
real estate, or so much thereof as may be necessary to satisfy such
judgment, interest and costs, be sold, and execution shall be issued
thereon, which shall be executed as. in other cases of judgment and
execution, and said judgment shall be a first lien upon said land.
Laws of 1903, pp. 148, 153, Act No. 92, ยง 88.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

collect its revenues by certain statutory proceedings duly
provided for that purpose, and it would seem to be elementary that such enforcement of collection must depend upon
a valid assessment as its basis, and this again was the
holding in Missouri. City of Hannibal ex rel. Bassen v.
Bowman, 98 Mo. App. 103; State ex rel. Morris v. Cunningham, 153 Missouri, 642. The fact that the taxpayer
furnished the list of mining claims which included those
upon which increased assessments had been made and
thereby acknowledged the ownership of the property by
the description stated, would not permit the Board, if
authority was wanting, to increase the assessment upon a
part of the property by picking out certain claims only, as
was done in this case. If for such action the assessment
was void, the description furnished by the property owner
could not supply the defect. State ex rel. Flentge v.
Burrough, 174 Missouri, 700, 707. Nor do we think there
is substance in the claim that the payment made by the
appellee estopped it from contesting the lien sought to be
imposed in this case. The finding of facts sets forth
specifically the payment of the sum of $14,133.12 and of
the further sum of $9,589.20 as a condition for granting
the injunction in the original suit brought by the appellee
in the District Court;. and the finding shows that the
payment of the sum of $14,133.12 was "on account of any
moneys which might ultimately be determined os due
from said company for its tax for said year," and that the
sum of $5,661.44 was paid on the attempted compromise
which was subsequently held to be invalid. We do not
find anything in these payments which upon principles of
estoppel, or as an affirmation of the validity of the assessment, would prevent the appellee from contending against
the legality of the action here in question
In the decision as made in the Supreme Court it was
not found necessary to rule upon the attempted defenses
based upon the arbitrary character of the assessment, nor

BOSTON & MAINE RD. v. HOOKER.
233 U. S.

Syllabus.

the fact that it was in excess of the cash value of the property. The conclusion which we have reached renders it
unnecessary for us to pass upon the findings in this respect,
which, notwithstanding the! decision in the court below,
are placed in the special findings upon which the case is
sent here.
Nor do we need to pass upon the alleged violation of the
equality protection of the Constitution in the finding that
other patented mining claims in Cochise County at the
time of the assessment .in1901 were assessed as a rule at
the uniform rate of $5.00 per acre. Nor need we consider
the ground upon which the Supreme Court of Arizona
seems to have acted in part that the assessment rolls and
tax book varied from the complaint in the description of
the property.
It follows that the judgment of the Supreme Court of the
Territory of Arizona must be affrmed.

BOSTON AND MAINE RAILROAD v. HOOKER.
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF-MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 121.

Argued December 10, 11, 1913.-Decided April 6, 1914.

Congress, by the Hepburn Act and the Carmack amendment in 1906,
has regulated the subject of interstate transportation of property by
Federal law to the exclusion of the States to control it by their own
policy or legislation. Pennsyhvania v. Hughes, 191 U. S. 477, distinguished, having been decided prior to the passage of the Hepburn

Act.
VOL. ccxxxiii-7

