APAPAS v. UNITED STATES.
233 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

APAPAS v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 746. Argued April 8, 1914.-Decided May 11, 1914.
The right of direct review by this court of a judgment of the District
Court under § 238, Judicial Code, depends upon whether the question of jurisdiction only is involved or whether the case involves
the constitutional or Federal question.
This court cannot review directly the judgment of the District Court
on the question of jurisdiction under § 238, Judicial Code, when
under the writ of error the whole case is brought up and-there is
no certificate as to the jurisdiction as required by § 238.
When the constitutional question was not raised in the court below this
court cannot directly review the judgment of the District Court
under § 238, Judicial Code. Iow v. United States, ante, p. 581.
Murder committed by Indians on a United States Indian reservation
is a crime against the authority of the United States, expressly
punishable by § 328, Penal Code, and within the cognizance of the
Federal courts without reference to the citizenship of the accused.
Every objection to the admission of a statement or confession of the
accuged cannot be regarded as involving the construction of the
Constitution merely because that instrument was referred to when
in substance and effect there was no controversy concerning the Constitution but only a contention as to the method of procedure.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
to review judgments of the District Court under § 238,
Judicial Code, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Miguel Estudillo, with whom Mr. Theodore Martin
was on the brief, for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Adkins, with whom The
Solicitor Generalwas on the brief, for the United States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

233 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the

court.

Ten persons described as Indians were, in July 1912,
indicted for the murder of William H. Stanley, a white
person, "at, upon and within the limits of a United States
Indian Reservation, known as the Cahuilla Indian Reservation, in the County of Riverside, within the Southern
Division of the Southern District of California, and within
the jurisdiction" of the court below, in violation of §§ 273,
275 and 328 of the Penal Code of 1909. As the result of
a trial, four of the accused were acquitted and the six
who are plaintiffs in error here were convicted of murder
in the second degree and sentenced to ten years imprisonment each, and prosecute this direct writ of error to reverse
such conviction and sentence. There are one hundred
assignments of error, but before we come to consider
them we must dispose of a motion made by the Government to dismiss on the ground that we are without jurisdiction because the case is susceptible only of review by
the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Ninth Circuit.
Undoubtedly, under the general provisions of § 128 of
the Judicial Code, power 'to review is lodged in the Circuit
Court of Appeals of the Ninth Circuit, and our authority,
if any, to consider the case depends therefore upon whether
it comes within the class of cases authorized to be brought
directly here from a trial court under the provisions of
§ 238. By such section in addition to the power conferred
to bring directly to this court a question of jurisdiction
of a- trial court as a Federal court under the conditions
and subject to the limitations stated, the right to directly
review in a case of this kind is conferred only "in any case
that involves the construction or application of the Constitution of the United States; in any case in which the
constitutionality of any law of the United States, or the
validity or construction of any treaty made under its

APAPAS v. UNITED STATES.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

authority is drawn in question; and in any case in which
the constitution or law of *a State is claimed to be in contravention of the Constitution of the United States."
The settled significance of these provisions we have
just pointed out in the case of Itow and Fushimiv. United
States, ante, p. 581, just decided, and under the principle
there applied it follows that we must determine the right
to direct review by ascertaining whether any of the issues
enumerated in the provisions of § 238 were below involved
in the cause. Coming to apply this test, only three out
of the matters assigned as error have any conceivable
relation to the conditions defined by the statute as essential to give the right to a direct review. They are:
(1) a challenge of the jurisdiction of the court below;
(2) a contention as to the effect of the treaty of Guadalupe
Hidalgo; (3) an assertion that a constitutional question
was involved in the action of the trial court in admitting
over objection, testimony as to a statement or admission
of Ambrosio Apapas, one of the accused.
As to the first, while it was raised below, it is obviously
inadequate to sustain the right to direct review, since
under the writ of error the whole case is brought here and
not the question of jurisdiction alone, as provided in
§ 238, and because there is no certificate as to the jurisdiction as required by the section. Maynard v. Hecht,
151 U. S. 324; Chappell v. United States, 160 U. S. 499,
507; Courtney v. Pradt, 196 U. S.89, 91, 92.
While the second contention based upon the treaty of
Guadalupe Hidalgo was raised in the lower court, it in no
sense involved the validity or construction of the treaty,
and therefore affords no support for the right to directly
review. In substance the proposition concerning the
treaty is this: that as the ancestors of the accused prior
to the termination of the war with Mexico were citizens
of Mexico, and became by the treaty citizens of the United
States and of the State of California, they were therefore

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

not amenable to prosecution in the courts of the United
States for the crime of murder committed within the
State of California, however much they may have been
susceptible of being prosecuted for such crime in an appropriate state court. But assuming, for argument's
sake, the premise based on the treaty to be sound, and
disregarding for brevity's sake the fact that the accused
were tribal Indians leading a tribal life, and living on a
tribal reservation under the control of the United States,
the deduction based on the premise is so .absolutely devoid
of merit as not in any real sense to involve the construction of the. treaty. We so say because the prosecution
was for mugder committed by Indians on a United States
Indian Reservation and therefore was for a crime against
the authority of the United States, expressly punishable
by statute (§328, Penal Code), and within the cognizance
of the courts of the United States, without reference to the
citizenship of the accused, as settled by a long line of
authority. United States v. Kagama, 118 U. S. '375;
United States v. Celestine, 215 U. S. 278; Donnelly v.
United States, 228 U. S. 243, 270; United States v. Sandoval,
231 U. S. 28, 39. Indeed, in answering the argument of
the Government on the motion to dismiss, if not in express terms, at least virtually, it is conceded that the
two propositions we have disposed of thus are inadequate
to sustain the resort to a direct writ of error. But it is
urged that the tfiird contention plainly is sufficient for
that purpose, that contention as we have said being based
upon an exception taken to the action of the trial court in
receiving testimony concerning an alleged statement or
admission made by one of the accused, Apapas. But we
search the record in vain to find the slightest reference
made to the Constitution of the United States at the
time the objection referred to was taken or anything
whatever to indicate in any manner that the attention
of the court below was directed to the fact that there

APAPAS v. UNITED STATES.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

was any controversy or dispute involving the Constitution
of the United States.
Under this condition, as pointed out in the case of Itow
and Fushimi v. United States, supra, there is no ground
whatever for saying that a constitutional right was involved within the exceptions created by § 238 so as to
justify disregarding the regular course of judicial procedure
by coming directly to this court. The theory upon which
it is insisted in argument that the right to direct review
results because of the action of the trial court as to the
admission of the statement is based upon the premise that
because the Constitution guaranteed against compulsory
self-incrimination, therefore any objection made to the
admission of the statement or confession by the accused
necessarily and inherently involved a constitutional right
and amounted to 'a statement of the same although no
express mention was made of the Constitution and nothing appears to indicate that any contention whatever
existed as to the significance and operation of the Constitution. But this proposition if carried to its legitimate
conclusion would embrace every conceivable controversy
as to every possible right, since under a constitutional
system of government all rights in their last analysis are
referable to the safeguards of the Constitution. But we
need not further demonst:rate the unsoundness of the contention since it is directly in conflict with the settled rule
which we have just re-stated in the Itow and Fushimi Case.
And although to go further is superfluous, to prevent misconception or unfounded inferences as to what we decide,
we say that we must not be understood as holding that
even although it be assumed for the sake of argument
that the constitutional guarantee against compulsory selfincrimination would apply to an objection made to the
offer in evidence of an admission by an accused person, it
would follow that such guarantee would be involved in an
objection to the admission in evidence of a confession in

592 '

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

the sense of § 238, even if in making the objection the
guarantee of the Constitution was expressly referred to
unless there was some real controversy concerning the
meaning of the constitutional guarantee. We make this
reservation because it is quite apparent that %uchan objection in the absence of some difference as to the significance of the Constitution might well involve but the exercise of discretion as to the order or method of proof and
the calling into play of judgment to determine whether
or not the proof as offered brought the question which
was to be decided within the undisputed scope of the constitutional safeguard. In other words, we do not hold that
any and every objection to the admissiorA of a statement
or confession of an accused can be made to involve the
construction of the Constitution merely by referring to
that instrument when in substance and effect there is no
eontroversy concerning the Constitution but only a contention as to the methods of procedure. Conceptions
which are well illustrated by the record before us, where
the entire argument concerning the Constitution is based
on the following objection taken to the admission of the
statement of the accused: Counsel for accused, "One
minute. We object that there is no proper foundation laid
for a confession as there is no evidence to show that there
was any (no) inducement or immunity offered or what
the circumstances were under which the statement was
made."
Dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.

