236

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

233 U. S.

was within the statutes -under which these indictments
were laid.
The judgment of the District Court, in each case, is
reversed, and the cases are remanded for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
It is so ordered.

DIAMOND COAL AND COKE CO. v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 192. Argued January 28, 29, 1914.-Decided April 6, 1914.
A patent for mineral lands secured under a non-mineral-land law by
fraudulently and falsely representing them to be non-mineral, although not void or open to collateral attack, is voidable and may
be annulled in a suit by the Government against the patentee or a
purchaser with notice of the fraud.
In a suit by the Government to annul a patent, issued under a nonmineral-land law, on the ground that the patent was fraudulently
procured for lands known to be mineral, the burden of proof rests
upon the Government and must be sustained by that class of evidence
which commands respect and that amount of it whieh produces
conviction.
To justify the annulment of a patent issued under a non-mineral-land
law as wrongfully covering mineral lands, it must appear that at
the time of the proceedings in the land department resulting in the
patent the lands were known to be valuable for mineral, for no subsequent discovery of mineral can affect the patent.
In this case the evidence shows with requisite certainty that at the
time of the proceedings in the land department resulting in the patents sought to be annulled, the lands were known to be valuable for
coal and were sought for that reason.
Where an agent, at the instance and for the benefit of his principal,
fraudulently secures patents under a non-mineral-land law for lands

DIAMOND COAL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
233 U. S.

237

Opinion (f the Court.

known to be valuable for mineraland then transfers the lands to his
principal, the latter is not a bona fide purchaser, and the patents
may be annulled in a suit by the Government.
There is no fixed rule that lands become valuable for coal only through
its actual discovery within theLir boundaries. On the contrary, they
may, and often do, become so through adjacent disclosures and other
surrounding or external conditions; and when that question arises,
any evidence logically relevant to the issue is admissible, due regard
being had to the time to which it must relate. Colorado Coal & Iron
Co. v. United States, 123 U. S. 307, distinguished.
191 Fed. Rep. 786, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the validity of certain patents
for lands entered as non-mineral, but which were known to
be chiefly valuable for mineral when entered, and the right,
of the Government to have the same annulled as having
been fraudulently obtained, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. CorneliusF Kelley mad Mr. L. 0. Evans, with whom
Mr. B. M. Ausherman was on the brief, for appellant.
The Solicitor General, with whom Mr. Karl W. Kirchwey
was on the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the court.
This was a suit by the United States, against an incorporated company engaged in coal mining, to regain
the title to about 2,840 acres of land in Uinta County,
Wyoming, theretofore patented to Thomas Sneddon and
Daniel F. Harrison and by them conveyed to the coal
company. The patents., thirty-four in number, were
issued under the homestead law upon what are called
soldiers' additional entiies. The applications for the
entries were made at various dates beginning with May 1,
1899, and each application was accompanied by an affidavit, by either Sneddon or Harrison, stating that he was

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

well, acquainted with the land, had passed over it frequently and could testify understandingly about it; that
there was not, to his knowledge, any deposit of coal or
other valuable mineral within its limits; that it was essentially non-mineral, and that the application was made
with the object of securing it for agricultural purposes and
not of fraudulently obtaining title to mineral land. Mineral lands, including coal lands, are not subject to acquisition under the homestead law (Rev. Stat., §§ 2302,
2318, 2319, 2347-2351), and these affidavits were made
and submitted as proof that the character of the lands
applied for was such that they properly could be acquired
under that law. The land officers accepted the affidavits
and the statements therein as true, and allowed the
entries and issued the patents.
The bill charged that the affidavits were false and that
the entries and patents were procured in the execution of
a fraudulent scheme to acquire known coal lands under
soldiers' additional homestead entries; and the decisive
issues in the case were, first, whether the lands were known
to be valuable for coal when the applications for the entries
were made, and, second, if they were, whether the coal
company was a bona fide purchaser from the patentees.
At the hearing the Circuit Court answered the first of
these questions in the negative and gave a decree for the
coal company; but upon an appeal to the Circuit Court of
Appeals that court answered the first question in the
affirmative and the second in the negative, and reversed
the action of the Circuit Court, with a direction that a
decree for the Government be entered. 191 Fed. Rep. 786.
The present appeal was then taken by the coal company.
As the arguments of counsel have taken a wide range
and in some respects have departed from the settled rules
of decision applicable in cases like this, it will be appropriate to restate those rules before turning to the evidence.
They are:

DIAMOND COAL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
233 U. S.

239

Opinion of the Court.

1. Questions of fact arising in the administration of the
public-land laws, such as whether lands sought to be
entered are mineral or non-mineral, are committed to the
land officers for determination; and as their decision must
rest largely or entirely upon proofs outside the official
records, it is possible in ex parte proceedings, as was the
case here, for applicants, by submitting false proofs, to
impose upon those officers and secure entries and patents
under one law, when if truthful proofs were submitted the
lands could not be acqubed under that law but only under
another iniposing different restrictions upon their disposal. A patent secured by such fraudulent practices,
although not void or open to collateral attack, is nevertheless voidable and may be annulled in a suit by the
Government against the patentee or a purchaser with
notice of the fraud. Smelting Company v. Kemp, 104
U. S. 636, 640; United States v. Minor, 114 U. S. 233, 240;
Colorado Coal & Iron Co. v. United States, 123 U. S. 307,
313; Burfenning v. Chicago &c. Railway Co., 163 U. S.
321, 323.
2. The respect due to a patent, the presumption that
all the preceding steps required by law were duly observed,
and the obvious necessity for stability in titles resting
upon these official instruments require that in suits to
annul them the Govermment shall bear the burden of
proof and shall sustain it by that class of evidence which
commands respect and that amount of it which produces
conviction. Maxwell Land Grant Case, 121 U. S. 325,
379-381; United State,3 v. Iron Silver Mining Co., 128
U. S. 673, 676; United States v. Stinson, 197 U. S. 200,
204-205; United States v. Clark, 200 U. S. 601, 608.
3. To justify the annulment of a homestead patent as
wrongfully covering mineral land, it must appear that at
the time of the proceedings which resulted in the patent
the land was known to be valuable for mineral; that is to
say, it must appear that the known conditions at the time

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

of those proceedings were plainly such as to engender
the belief that the land contained mineral deposits of such
quality and in such quantity as would render their extraction profitable and justify expenditures to that end.
If at that time the land was not thus known to be valuable
for mineral, subsequent discoveries will not affect the
patent. The inquiry must be directed to the situation
at that time, as were the applicant's proofs and the finding
of the land officers. If the proofs were not false then, they
cannot be condemned, nor the good faith of the applicant
impugned, by reason of any subsequent change in the
conditions. "We say 'land known at the time to be
valuable for its minerals,' as there are vast tracts of public
land in which minerals of different kinds are found, but
not in such quantity as to justify expenditures in the
effort to extract them. It is not to such lands that
the term 'mineral' in the sense of -the statute is applicable. . . . We also say lands known at the time of
their sale to be thus valuable, in order to avoid any
possible conclusion against the validity of titles which
may be issued for other kinds of land, in which, years
afterwards, rich deposits of mineral may be discovered.
It is quite possible that lands settled upon as suitable only
for agricultural purposes, entered by the settler and
patented by the Government under the preemption laws,
may be found, years after the patent has been issued, to
contain valuable minerals. Indeed, this has often happened. We, therefore, use the term known to be valuable
at the time of sale, to prevent any doubt being cast upon
titles to lands afterwards found to be different in their
mineral character from what was supposed when the
entry of them was made and the patent issued." Deffeback
v. Hawke, 115 U. S. 392, 404; Colorado Coal & Iron Co. v.
United States, 123 U. S. 307, 328; United States v. Iron
Silver Mining Co., 128 U. S. 673, 683; Davis v. Weibbold,
139 U. S. 507, 519; Dower v. Richards, 151 U. S. 658, 663;

DIAMOND COAL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
233 U. S.

241

Opinion of the Court.

Shaw v. Kellogg, 170 U. S. 312, 332; United States v. Plowman, 216 U. S. 372, 374.
As a further preliminary to considering the evidence,
it should be observed that these lands, if purchased under
the coal-land law, would have cost $20 an acre, and also
that the coal company could not have purchased directly,
or indirectly through others, more than 320 acres, unless
it expended $5,000 in opening and improving a mine, in
which event the maximum would have been 640 acres.
Rev. Stat., §§ 2348, 2350; United States v. Trinidad Coal
Co., 137 U. S. 160; United States v. Keitel, 211 U. S. 370.
As before said, the entries here in question embraced
about 2,840 acres.
Coming to the evidence, we find it voluminous, unreasonably so. Part of it sheds no light upon the issues
and was taken in disregard of the last of the rules just
stated. That which properly may be considered very
clearly establishes the. following facts:
The proceedings in the land office began in May, 1899.
Most of. the applications were filed during that year and
passed to patent in 1901. The others were presented and
acted upon in succeeding years. The patents were all
secured by means of affidavits and proofs, as before indicated, declaring that the lands were essentially nonmineral, were not known to contain any deposit of coal,
and were sought for agricultural purposes and not as
mineral land. For many years the district in which the
lands were situate had been known to contain coal. They
were surveyed in 1874, and the surveyor reported one of
the sections as coal land., the others being contiguous to
lands similarly reported. This was shown in the field
notes and upon the official plats. The lands were in a
valley, three or four miles in width, bounded on the east
and west by foot-hills. A thick bed of coal was disclosed
in the eastern face of the Western hills, but its quality
was not such as to make it of commercial value. Along
VOL. CCXXXIII-1'

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

the western base of the eastern hills was the outcrop of
another coal bed. This outcrop had been weathered
down and in some places covered by the wash from above,
but it could be traced upon the surface for several miles.
It had been opened up at different places, and the openings
disclosed a coal bed, from six to fourteen feet in thickness,
dipping to the west at an angle of from fifteen to twentyfive degrees from the horizontal, as did the Cretaceous
rocks with which it was interstratified. This coal was of
superior quality and recognized commercial value, and
the rocks containing it were the coal-bearing strata of that
region. The lands in controversy were west of the outcrop, in the direction of the dip. Some Were near the
outcrop and the east line of the farthest section was
about a mile and a half away. There was nothing upon
their surface showing the presence of coal beneath, nor
anything indicating that the bed outcropping on the east
and dipping to the west did not pass through them. Unless valuable for coal, they were not worth to exceed a
dollar ahd a quarter an acre. They were arid sagebrush
lands, about 7,000 feet above sea level, and afforded very
limited pasturage. Without irrigation they were not
susceptible of cultivation, and the cost of securing water
for that purpose was prohibitive.
Attracted by this outcrop, the coal company opened a
mine thereon, in the vicinity of these lands, in 1894. In
the beginning the output of the mine was small, but it
reached 183,750 tons for 1897, 259,608 tons for 1898, and
441,277 tons for 1899.
An attempt was made by the coal company to acquire
a part of the lands in controversy in 1898 by inducing
some of its employ~s and others to make ordinary homestead entries of them under an agreement whereby the
company was to bear the expense, compensate the entrymen for the exercise of their homestead rights, and receive
the title when perfected. The arrangement was fraudulent

DIAMOND COAL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
233 U. S.

243

Opinion of the Court.

and in direct violation of the homestead law, independently
of the character of the lands. 26 Stat. 1095, 1097, c. 561,
§ 5. Sneddon was in charge of the attempt. He was
acquainted with the lands and all their surroundings and
was well informed upon the subject of coal mining. With
the aid of a surveyor he identified the subdivisions to be
entered, and afterwards selected the men who were to
make the entries and direct~ed all that was done, indicating,
in that connection, that the lands were coal lands and
were to be taken for that reason, and also to prevent
another coal concern from getting them. The entries
were made in 16(-acre tracts, and to give them apparent support cheap cabins were put upon the lands,
at the company's expense, but the law was not evdn
colorably complied with in other respects. The next year
this plan was abandoned and that of using soldiers' additional rights was adopted. These rights were assignable, and in their exercise no residence, improvement or
cultivation was required. See Rev. Stat., § 2306; Webster,
v. Luther, 163 U. S. 331. At the company's request the
prior entries were relinquished and the entrymen were
severally paid $500 for what they had done, the payment
to one being $600. When the relinquishments were filed,
Sneddon and Harrison immediately applied to enter the
lands with soldiers' additional rights. A few of the
relinquished subdivisions were not reentered, and several
tracts not covered by the prior entries were included in
the new ones, but all of the latter were made with soldiers'
additional rights purchased and supplied by the company
and were made for its benefit. The price paid by the
company for these additional rights was from six to thirteen dollars an acre. After the entries were obtained the
lands were conveyed to the company, and Sneddon was
paid $1,000 for this service, although otherwise regularly
employed by the company at the time.
In 1898, shortly before the dummy entries were made,

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

Sneddon had filed in the land office a sworn declaration
of his intention to purchase, under the coal-land law (Rev.
Stat., §§ 2347-2349), one of the tracts in controversy,
which he then described as containing "a valuable vein of
coal." The tract was about a quarter of a mile from the
outcrop. At the time of making the soldiers' additionalentries he relinquished the coal filing and included the
tract in two of them.
In 1899, about the time of the additional entries, James
Lees purchased from the Government, under the coalland law, and sold to the company for $3,400, a quarter
section upon which earlier exploratioif had disclosed good
coal, eight feet in thickness. This sale was in execution of
a prior arrangement and the price paid to Lees was $200
in excess of that paid to the Government. The tract was
within a half mile in each of three directions from lands
here in controversy.
As indicative of the weight and importance which men
having a practical knowledge of coal mining attached to

the outcrop at the time, the Government proved by an
experienced mine foreman, who had been in charge of
large mines, known as the Cumberland, adjacent to a
portion of the lands in controversy, that those mines were
opened in 1900 by reason of what was found on the outcrop; that there was no precedent drilling of the adjacent
lands; and that in advising the opening of the mines he
was guided by what an examination of the outcrop in
1889 disclosed.

True, he said that he could not take

"a solemn oath" or "be positive" that unexplored lands
in the vicinity of the outcrop and in the direction of the
dip contained valuable coal, but his testimony was plainly
to the effect that the outcrop, the direction and inclination of the dip, and other conditions in 1899 and 1900
afforded reasonable ground for believing that a considerable territory lying west of the outcrop could be mined
profitably.

DIAMOND COAL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
233 U. S.

245

Opinion of the Court.

There was much experti testimony by geologists concerning the outcrop and other known geological databearing upon the character of these lands. In the main
the witnesses were agreEid respecting the existence of
these physical indicia, but differed as to the conclusions
to be drawn from them, the expert for the Government
maintaining that they afforded convincing reasons for
concluding that the lands were coal lands and the experts
for the coal company controverting that view. But the
divergence was not so pronounced as it would seem, for it
was partly due to a difference as to what, in legal contemplation, are coal lands.
The expert for the Government proceeded upon the
theory that when the known surroundings are such that
practical coal men would invest in particular lands for
coal mining, or advise others to do so, those lands are to be
deemed coal lands, even though coal has not as yet actually
been disclosed within their limits. And having in mind'
the outcropping coal bed, the direction and inclination of
its dip, the character of the rocks with which it was interstratified, the quality and thickness of the coal at the outcrop, the proximity of the lands to the outcrop, and the
topographical and structural features of the vicinity,
he gave it as his opinion that the coal bed extended into
and through the lands in question and that practical
coal men would regard the lands as valuable for coal and
invest in them as such. He accordingly pronoiufnced them
coal lands within his acceptation of that term. This
conclusion had substantial support,. not only in the facts
already recited, but also in the fact that the company's
maps, made three years before the suit was begun, showed
that it was intending to project its mining operations
westward from the outcrop a mile and a half and had
designated the intervening lands, which included some of
those in controversy, as coal lands, and in the further fact
that the company had returned lands extending west-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

ward a similar distance, likewise including some now in
controversy, as exempt from direct taxation by reason
of a local statute substituting an output tax upon coal
mines. Laws Wyo. 1903, c. 81, p. 101. The return for the
year in which the maps were made claimed an exemption
of substantially six sections, in two tiers of three sections
each, although the work of developing the mine (No. 4),
as shown by the maps, was still within the east half of
the middle section in the eastern tier.
The experts for the coal company proceeded largely,
but not entirely, upon the theory that lands cannot be
regarded as coal lands unless coal in quantity and of
quality to render its extraction profitable is actually
disclosed within their boundaries. One testified that even
if a slope were driven from the outcrop to within five feet
of the vertical boundary of one of the sections in question,
and in good coal all the way (a fact proved but not to be
considered here, because in the nature of a discovery
subsequent to the entries), it would not show that the
section approached was coal land, there being no actual
exposure of coal within its limits. And he added that it
would be the same if. the distance were three inches instead of five feet, but that "the moment you cross the
line, then it commences to be coal land." Special emphasis
was laid upon the uncertainties incident to coal mining
in the Cretaceous areas of the West by reason of the occurrence of faults, wants, thinning and the like, and this,
it was said, required that actual exposure of coal within
the land, by an outcropping at the surface or an excavation,
be accepted as the true and only test. But even such a
test was largely discredited by statements that "a good
outcrop at the surface may represent a want below, or a
want at the surface may represent a coal below," and that
in following a good discovery a fault or thinning, as well as
a want, may be encountered at any moment. It was conceded, however, that the coal horizon-meaning the coal-

DIAMOND COAL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
233 U. S.

247

Opinion of the Court.

bearing strata shown at the outcrop, but not necessarily
the coal-passed through the lands in controversy, and
one expert, while declaring that he could not make an
affidavit that they were coal lands in the sense of "strictly
containing deposits of coal," candidly added: "But I
would be prepared to make an affidavit that I believe
them to contain coal." Another, although pronouncing
the showing at the outcrop and elsewhere insufficient
to render the lands valuable for coal mining, said: "I
am not prepared, personally, to either affirm or deny that
this land does or does not contain coal. I contend that
it is beyond the capacity of any man to say that something exists or does not exist upon which he has no absolute testimony."
It is of some significance that Sneddon-who had long
been in the company's service, had been the central figure
in the acquisition of these lands, was familiar with them
and the purpose for which they were sought and acquired,
Was the company's superintendent when the evidence was
taken before the master, and was present during a part,
at least, of the time when it was being taken-was not
called by the company as a witness, and that statements,
declarations and acts attributed to him and which made
against the company were permitted to go undenied and
unexplained.
We think the evidence, rightly considered, shows with
the requisite certainty that at the time of the proceedings

in the land office the lands were known to be valuable for
coal. Otherwise they had only a nominal value, not to
exceed one dollar and a quarter an acre, and yet easily
ten times that amount was voluntarily expended by the.
company in acquiring them. It was hardly intending
to make an aimless or grossly excessive expenditure. It
was a practical concern, operated by practical men. It
had located a mine upon the outcrop five years before, andin the meantime had proved the wisdom of the undertak-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

ing by its mining operations. They had disclosed the
existence of an extensive bed of valuable coal dipping to
the west under the valley, and in that way had supplemented the evidence afforded by the outcrop and its surroundings. Without any doubt these considerations induced the company to believe, and rightly so, that the
lands in controversy possessed a value for c6al mining
greatly in excess of their value for any other purpose.
This explains the expenditure and the persistency of the
company's efforts to acquire them; and the fact that the
earlier effort was obviously fraudulent and unlawful,
independently of the character of the lands, serves in no
small degree to explain the kindred practices employed in
the later effort. In short, the company, without care as
to the means, sought and acquired the lands because it
regarded them as valuable for coal. Its view and purpose
were also reflected by its maps and tax returns. Of course,
it was not a bona fide purchaser from Sneddon and Harrison, for they were mere agents representing it as an undisclosed principal.
An exposure to the eye of coal upon the particular lands
was not essential to give them a then present value for
coal mining. They were all adjacent to the outcrop and
above the plane of the coal-bearing strata dipping under
the valley. In alternate even-numbered sections they
substantially paralleled the outcrop for seven miles, and
in two places were separated from it by only a few rods.
Those to the north were opposite the company's developed
mine (No. 4), and those to thp south were opposite the
tract acquired through Lees, upon which good coal was
disclosed. The outcrop, the disclosures in the vicinity,
and the geological formation pointed with convincing
force to a workable bed of merchantable coal extending
under the valley and penetrating these lands. These conditions were open to common observation, and were such
as would appeal to practical men and be relied upon by

DIAMOND COAL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
233 U. S.

249

Opinion of the Court.

them in making investments for coal mining. They did so
appeal to the Cumberland people, as well as this company,
both large concerns represented by men of experience,
understanding the uncertainties and hazards of the business as well as its rewards. No doubt it has its uncertainties and hazards, but the evidence shows that they are
not so pronounced as indicated by the company's experts.
There is no fixed rule that lands become valuable for
coal only through its actual discovery within their boundaries. On the contrary, they may, and often do, become
so through adjacent disclosures and other surrounding or
external conditions; and when that question arises in
cases such as this, any evidence logically relevant to the
issue is admissible, due regard being had to the time to
which it must relate.
The case of Colorado Coal & Iron Co. v. United States,
123 U. S. 307, relied upon by the coal company, is essentially different from this in that there the court was dealing
with a statute excepting from entry lands on which there
were "mines" at the time, a matter particularly noticed
in the opinion (p. 328), while here the exception is of
"mineral lands" and "lands valuable for minerals."
Rev. Stat., §§ 2302, 2318.
It will be perceived that we are not here concerned with
a mere outcropping of coal with nothing pointing persuasively to its quality, extent or value; neither are we considering other minerals whose mode of deposition and
situation in the earth are so irregular or otherwise unlike
coal as to require that they be dealt with along other lines.
Decree affirmed.

