OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.'

233 U. S.

policy as well in a. revenue as in a police law. Quong Wing
v. Kirdendall, 223 U. S. 59, 62. The case really has been
disposed of by previous decisions of. this court. McCray

v. United State8, 195 U. S. 27, 62, 63.
Judgment affirmed.

CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE AND ST. PAUL RAILWAY
COMPANY v. STATE OF IOWA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
No. 176.

Argued March 3, 1914.-Decided April 13, 1914.

Whether commerce is interstate or intrastate must be determined by
the essential character of the commerce and not by mere billing or

forms of contract.
The reshipment of an interstate shipment by the consignees in the cars
in which received to other points of destination does not necessarily
establish a continuity of movement or prevent the shipment to a
point within the same State from having an independent and intrastate character.
In this case, held, that shipments of coal when reshipped, after arrival
from points without the State and acceptance by the consignees,
to points within the State on new 4nd regular billing forms constituted intrastate shipments and were subject to the jurisdiction of
the State Railroad Commission.
Whether the common law or statutory provisions apply to a case is for
the state court to determine, and so held, that in Iowa the State
Railroad Commission has power under the state law to require
common carriers to use the equipment of connecting carriers to
transport shipments from the points of original destination to other
points within the State.
A State may, so long as it acts within its own jurisdiction and not in
hostility to any Federal regulation of interstate commerce, compel
a carrier to accept, for further -reshipment over its lines to poiits
within the State, cars already loaded and in suitable condition; and
an order to that effect by the State Railroad Commission is not

CHI., MIL. & ST. P. RY. v. IOWA.
233 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

unconstitutional as depriving the carrier of its property without due
process of law.
Where it appears that an order of the State Railroad Commission
simply required the carrier to continue a former practice, and the
record does not disclose that it involves additional expense over
the new practice proposed, this court is not justified in holding that
the order is unconstitutional as depriving the carrier of its property
without due process of law because it subjects it to an unreasonable
expense.
This court cannot, at the instace of the carrier, hold an order of the
State Railroad Commission., otherwise valid, requiring the carrier
to forward, interstate stlipments after receipt to intrastate points
in the same equipment, void as interfering with interstate commerce
because the cars are vehicles of interstate commerce, when no actual
interference with such commerce is shown nor is any such question
raised between the shippers and the owners of the cars.
152 Iowa, 317, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the validity and also the constitutionality under the commerce clause of, and the
Fourteenth Amendment to, the Federal Constitution, of
an order of the State Rairoad Commission of Iowa in regard to carload shipments -of coal, are stated in the opinion.
Mr.0. W. Dynes, with whom Mr. C. S. Jefferson and
Mr. Burton Hanson were on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The proposed shipment from Davenport to destination
in Polk County, Iowa, was an intrastate shipment.
At common law a carrier is not compelled to use foreign
equipment designated by the shipper, but has the right
to use its own equipment to transport property over its
own rails.
There is no statute in Iowa that compels the initial
carrier to receive a shipment in a foreign car and the
statute of that State requiring a connecting carrier, acting
as such, to receive shipments coming to it over other lines
in foreign cars, does not apply to the case at bar for the
reason that plaintiff in error was the initial carrier and not
a connecting carrier.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

233 U. S.

The order of the Board of Railroad Commissioners was
void ab initio because its enforcement would deprive
plaintiff in error of its constitutional right to contract,
secured by the Fourteenth Amendment; also because its
enforcement would entail the taking of property without
due process of law, in contravention of the Fourteenth
Amendment.
The order, if enforced, would deny to the plaintiff in
error the equal' protection of the laws, contrary to the
Fourteenth Amendment.
The order is also void because its enforcement would
interfere with and burden interstate commerce through
interfering with and burdening the instruments of interstate commerce.
In support of these contentions, see Act to Regulate
Commerce, 24 Stat. 379; Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165
U. S. 578, 589; Atchison &c. R. R. v. Denver & N. 0.
R. R., 110 U.S. 667, 680; Atchison &c. Ry. Co. v. United
States, 232 U. S. 199; Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co. v.
United States et al., 215 U. S. 481; Central Stockyards v.
L. & N. Ry. Co., 192 U. S. 568, 571; Iowa Code, ยง 2116; Id.,
Supp., 1907, ยง 2153; Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S. 517; Gulf, Col.
&c. Ry. Co. v. Texas, 204 U. S. 403; Int' Com. Comm. v.
I. C. R. R. Co., 215 U. S. 452, 474; Lake Shore & M. S. Ry.
Co. v. Smith, 173 U. S. 684, 698; Little Rock &c. Ry, Co.
v. St. Louis &c. Ry. Co., 63 Fed. Rep. 775; Louls. &
Nash. Ry. Co. v. Central Stockyards, 212 U. S. 132, 144;
Louis. & Nash. R. R. Co. v. Garrett, 231 V. S. 298; Louis.
& Nash. R. R. Co. v. Siler, 186 Fed. Rep. 176; McCulloch
v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 415, 426; McNeill v. Southern Ry.
Co., 202 U. S. 543; Minnesota Rate-Cases, 230 U. S. 352,
400; Mo. & Ill. Coal Co. v. I. C. R. R. Co., 22 I. C. C. 39;
Mo. Pac. Co. v. Nebraska, 164 U. S. 403, 417; Nor. Pac.
Ry. Co. v. Washington, 222 U. S. 370, 377; O'Ferrallv.
Simplot, 4 Clarke (Iowa), 381, 399; Ohio R. R. Comm. v.
Worthington, 225 U. S. 101; Oregon Short Line v. Nor. Pac.

CHI., MIL. & ST. P. RY. v. IOWA.
233 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

R. R. Co., 51 Fed. Rep. 465, 472; Smith v. Alabama, 124
U. S. 465, 473; So. Pac. Terminal Co. v. I. C. C., 219 U. S.
498; Southern R. Co. v. United States, 222 U. S. 20, 26;
Texas & N. 0. R. R. Co. v. Sabine, 227 U. S. 111.
Mr. George Cosson, Attorney General of the State of
Iowa, with whom Mr. Henry E. Sampson was on the brief,
for defendant in error:
The Board of Railroad Commissioners have authority
under the statutes of Iowa to make the order requiring
the Milwaukee Railway Company to receive coal on the
interchange track at Davenport, Iowa, in the equipment
in which the coal was then loaded, and to prohibit the
Milwaukee Railway Company from requiring the coal
companies at Davenport to unload the coal and reload the
same in Milwaukee equipment as a condition precedent'
to its moving in intrastate commerce over the lines of the
Milwaukee Railroad Company in Iowa. State v. Chicago,
Milwaukee Ry. Co., 152 Iowa, 317; Louis. & Nash. R. R.
Co. v. Kentucky, 183 U. S. 503.
The order of the Board does not deny plaintiff due
process either by taking its property or by denying it the
right of the liberty of contract.
A reasonable regulation of public service corporations
or persons and a reasonable limitation of the right to
contract, if made under the police power in the interests
of the public health, the public safety, the public morals,
or the public welfare, convenience, necessity or prosperity,
is valid. Grand Trunk Ry. Co. v. Mich. Ry. Com., 231
U. S. 457; Wis. &c. R. R. Co. v. Jacobson, 179 U. S. 287;
Atlantic Coast Line v. Nor. Car. Com., 206 U. S, 1; Holden
v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366; Slaughter House Cases, 16 Wall.
36; C., M. & St. P. Ry. Co. v. Solan, 169 U. S. 133; Carroll
v. Greenwich, 199 U. S. 401; C., B. & Q. Ry. Co. v. McGuire, 219 U. S. 549; Engel v. O'Malley, 219 U. S. 128;
West. Un. Tel. Co. v. Commercial Mill. Co., 218U. S. 406;
VOL. ccxxxiii-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

233 U. S.

Noble State Bank. v. Haskell, 219 U. S. 104; Assaria State

Bank v. Dolley, 219 U. S. 121; Mobile, JacksonR. R. Co. v.
Mississippi, 210 U. S. 187; C., R. I. & P. Ry. Co. v.
Zernecke, 183 U. S. 582.
On the other hand, an arbitrary, unreasonable taking of
property or limiting of the right to contract is invalid,
especially where the statute bears no relation to correcting
some public evil or promoting the health, safety, morals,
welfare or prosperity of a State or community. Lake
Shore Ry. v. Smith, 173 U. S. 687; Central Stock Yards v.
Louis. & Nash. R. R., 192 U. S. 568; Mo. Pac. Ry. v.
Nebraska, 164 U. S. 403; McNeil v. Southern Ry. Co., 202
U. S. 543; 561; Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 579;
Louis. & Nash. R. R. Co. v. Stock Yards Co., 212 U. S. 132.
Almost the precise question was passed upon by the
Supreme Court of Iowa in the case of B., C. R. & N. Ry.
Co. v. Dey, 82 Iowa, 312, 335.
This case does not present facts similar to those in the
case of Central Stock Yards v. Louisville Ry. Co., 192 U. S.
568.
A plaintiff in error can complain odly of the injury which
he himself may sustain and may not strike down a statute
as violative of the Federal Constitution because of its
possible injury to some one else. StandardStock Food Co.
v. Wright, 225 U. S. 540, p. 550.
The order of the Commission in question does not deny
the railroad company the equal protection of the laws.
Wisconsin v. Jacobson, 179 U. S. 287; Atlantic Coast Line
v. Nor. Car. Corp. Comm., 206 U. S. 1, 19; Grand Trunk
Ry. Co. v. Mich. R. R. Comm., 231 U. S. 457; West. Un. Tel.
Co. v. Commercial Milling Co., 218 U. S. 406; Griffith v.
Kentucky, 218 U. S. 563; Kentucky Union Co. v. Kentucky,
219 U. S. 140; German Alliance Ins. Co. v. Hale, 219 U. S.
307; District of Columbia v. Brooke, 214 U. S. 138; BrownForman Co. v. Kentucky, 217 U. S. 563; Field v. Barber
Asphalt Co., 194 U. S. 618; McLean v. Arkansas, 211 U. S.

CHI., MIL. & ST. P. RY. v. IOWA.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

546; Williams v. Arkansas, 217 U. S. 79; Carrollv. Greenwich Ins. Co., 199 U. S. 401; S. W. Oil Company v. Texas,
217 U. S. 114; Mo., K. & T. Ry. Co. v. May, 194 U. S. 267.
The order does not offend against the commerce clause
of the Federal Constitution; it is not a burden on interstate
commerce, but rather an aid to interstate commerce.
The order is in aid of interstate commerce because it
tends to a more prompt releasing of cars. Time is lost in
the unnecessary unloading and reloading of cars at Davenport, Iowa. The time consumed in the unloading and reloading of the cars in question would often be equal to that
required in transporting the car over the entire local shipment. In any event the regulation being reasonable, it is
clearly within the police power of the State.
If the regulation is- reasonable and Congress has remained silent upon the specific matter, it is neither a burden on interstate commerce nor in conflict with the acts of
Congress to regulate interstate commerce. Grand Trunk
Ry. v. Mich. Ry. Comm., 231 U. S. 457; Savagev. Jones, 225
U. S. 501; Standard Stock Food Co. v. Wright, 225 U. S.
540; Reid v. Colorado, 187 U. S. 137, 147; Nor. Pac. Ry.
Co. v. Washington, 222 U. S. 370; Cleveland &c. Ry. Co. v.
Illinois, ,177 U. S. 514; Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S.
352; and see McLean v. Denver &c. Ry. Co., 203 U. S.'
38, 55; Smith v. Alabama, 124 U. S. 465; Nashville Ry. Co.
v. Alabama, 128 U. S. 96; N. Y. R. R. Co. v. New York, 155
U. S. 628; Hennington v. Georgia, 163 U. S. 299.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of the
court.
This suit was brought by the State of Iowa to obtain a
mandatory injunction requiring the Chicago, Milwaukee
& St. Paul Railway Company to comply with an order of
the State Railroad Commission promulgated December 22,
1909. The defendant answered, denying the validity of

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

the order, and also filed a cross petition to set it aside
alleging that it was repugnant to the Constitution of the
United States as an attempt to regulate interstate commerce and to deprive the Company of its property without
due process of law and, further, that the Commission was
without authority under the laws of the State to make the
order. Judgment, sustaining the action of the Commission
and directing compliance, was affirmed by the Supreme
Court of the State. 152 Iowa, 317.
It appeared that the Railway Company, in 1909, had
refused to accept shipments of coal in carload lots at
Davenport, Iowa, for points in that State when tendered
in cars of other railroad companies by which the coal had
been biought to Davenport from points in Illinois. The
Railway Company insisted that it was entitled to furnish
its own cars. The Clark Coal and Coke Company, operating a branch at Davenport, complained of this rule to the
Railroad Commission, stating that it was a departure from
the practice which had obtained for several years with
respect to such shipments, that the Clark Companr paid
all charges 6o Davenport and on receiving orders from
its customers tendered written billing for transportation
from Davenport to the designated points, and that it was
unreasonable for the Railway Company to require in such
cases that the coal should be unloaded and reloaded in its
own cars. A hearing was had before the Commission at
which other shippers intervened, adopting the coal
company's complaint. The facts were presented in an
agreed statement, as follows:
"The Clark Coal & Coke Company of Davenport,
Iowa, have been making shipments of coal from points in
Illinois to Davenport by the Chicago, Rock Island &
Pacific Railway Company and the Chicago, Burlington &
Quincy Railroad Company; that said coal is then placed
by the railroad bringing it into Iowa on an interchange
track at Davenport; that all charges from poiut of grigin

CHI., MIL. & ST. P. RY. v. IOWA.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in Illinois to Davenport, Iowa, are paid by the Clark Coal
& Coke Company to the railroad company bringing said
coal; that thereupon complainant had notified the respondent railway company of the placement of said coal
and that it desired to ship said coal by the respondent
railway company to different points on its own line, and
tendered a written billing from Davenport to the point so
designated; that thereupon respondent railway company
has accepted said written billing from Davenport to said
point and taken said cars from said interchange track to
its own lin6 and transported the same in accordance with
said written billing; that the respondent railway company
has changed its method of doing business in the above
respects by its printed order and now refuses to accept
said written billing and take said cars from said interchange track and transport them over its own line to the
point designated by said billing, unless said coal is loaded
in equipment belonging to respondent railway company.
Respondent railway company, by its answer to the complaint, alleges that it 'will furnish cars for shipment of coal
from Davenport to any point in Iowa, as provided by
Iowa Distance Tariff, but will not accept shipments
originating at Davenport, billed from Davenport in the
equipment of other carriers,' and its readiness and ability
to furnish cars of its own for shipment is not controverted
and will therefore be taken to be true. It will thus be
observed that before the respondent railway company will
take coal for transportatiorL on its own line, in.equipment
other than its own, it requixes that. the same shall be unloaded and reloaded into its own cars."
Thereupon, the Commission rendered a decision in
favor of the shipper and entered the following order to
which this controversy relates:
"In accordance with the conclusions heretofore expressed, it is therefore ordered by the Board of Railroad
Commissioners of Iowa that upon arrival of loaded cars of

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

coal at the city of Davenport, upon any line of railroad,
when said cars are placed upon the interchange track at
Davenport as ordered or requested, by the owner or consignee of said cars and the freight paid thereon, and the
ordinary billing in use by the respondent railway is
tendered to it for a billing of said cars so placed to a point
on its own line within the State of Iowa, that the respondent railway company be and it is hereby ordered and
required to accept said billing, receive said car or cars so
billed and transport them on its own line to the point
designated by the owner or consignee in said billing; and
that it receive said car or cars in whatever equipment the
same may be loaded, without requiring an unloading and
reloading into its own equipment, and transport said car or
cars over its own line to points within this State, so loaded,
without unloading or reloading as above set forth, in the
same manner that it receives cars from connecting lines
loaded in its own equipment. It is expressly understood,
however, in this order, that no questions in relation to
switching charges are determined."
The Railway Company contended, both before the
Commission and in the state court, that the shipments in
question were interstate; and it was alleged in its answer
that the method of transportation resorted to was a
device of shippers to secure, by adding the rate from the
initial point in Illinois to Davenport to the rate established
by the Iowa distance tariff from Davenport to other
points in the State, a lower rate than that applicable to an
interstate shipment from the point in Illinois to the point
of final destination.
The Railroad Commission held that the transportafion
desired from Davenport was a purely intrastate service,
saying: "Under the admitted facts, the city of Davenport
became a distributing point for coal shipped by the consignor. The certainty in regard to the shipments of coal
ended at Davenport. The point where the same was to be

CHI., MIL. & ST. P. RY. v. IOWA.

233 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

shipped beyond Davenport, if at all, was determined after
the arrival of the coal at Davenport. The coal was under
the control of the consignee and he could sell it in transit or
at Davenport or reconsign it to a point. on respondent's
railway, or any other railway, at his own discretion."
Upon the trial of the present suit in the state court, the
State introduced in evidence the proceedings, decision and
order of the Commission, and without further evidence
both parties rested. The Supreme Court of the State took
the same view of the facts that the Commission had taken
and accordingly held that the shipments were intrastate.
The court said that the facts showed that the coal was
originally consigned to the coal company in Davenport,
that it was there held until sales were made, that the
consignee had taken delivery, paying the freight to the
initial carrier and assuming full control. 152 Iowa, 317,
319.
The record discloses no ground for assailing this finding.
It is undoubtedly true that the question whether commerce
is interstate or intrastate must be determined by the
essential character of the commerce and not by mere
billing or forms of contract. Ohio Railroad Commission v.
Worthington, 225 U. S. 101; Texas & N. 0. R. R. Co. v.
Sabine Tram Co., 227 U. IS. 111; Railroad Commission of
Louisiana v. Texas & Pacific Rwy. Co., 229 U.. S. 336.
But the fact that commodities received on interstate shipments are reshipped by the consignees, in the cars in
which they are received, to other points of destination,
does not necessarily establish a continuity of movement
or prevent the reshipment to a point within the same
State from having an independent and intrastate character. Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fe Rwy. Co. v. Texas, 204
U. S. 403; Ohio Railroad Commission v. Worthington, 225
U. S: 101, 109; Texas & N. O. R. R* Co. v. Sabine Tram
Co., 227 U. S.111, 129, 130, The question is with respect
to the nature of the actual movement in the particular

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

case; and we are unable to say upon this record that the
state court has improperly characterized the traffic in
question here. In the light of its decision, the order of the
Commission must be taken as referring solely to intrastate
transportation originating at Davenport.
In this view, the validity of the Commission's order is
challenged upon the ground that at common law the carrier was entitled to use its own equipment, and that the
statute of the State of Iowa as to the receiving of'cars from
connecting carriers (Code, ยง 2116) is inapplicable for the
reason that with respect to the transportation in question
the plaintiff in error was the initial carrier. But the obvious answer is that what is required by the law of Iowa
has been determined by the Supreme Court of that State.
That court, examining the various provisions of the Iowa
Code which have relation to the matter, has held that the
order was within the authority of the Railroad Comhmission. 152 Iowa, 317, 320, 321.
Further, the plaintiff in error insists that the enforcement of the order would deprive it of its liberty to contract, and of its property, without due process of law, and
would deny to it the equal protection of the laws in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment. We find these objections to be without merit. It was competent for the State,
acting within its jurisdiction and not in hostility to any
Federal regulation of interstate commerce, to compel the
carrier to accept cars which were already loaded and in
suitable condition for transportation over its line. The
requirement was a reasonable one. It cannot be said that
the plaintiff in error had a constitutional right to burden
trade by insisting that the commodities should be- unloaded and reloaded in its own equipment. Upon this
point the case of Wisconsin &c. R. R. Co. v. Jacobson,
179 U. S.287, is decisive. There is no essential difference,
so far as the power of the State is concerned, between
such an order as we have here and one compelling the

CHI., MIL. & ST. P. RY. v. IOWA.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

carrier to make track connections, and to receive cars from
connecting roads, in order that reasonably adequate
facilities for traffic may be provided. See also Minneapolis
& St. Louis v. Minnesota, 186 U. S. 257, 263; Atlantic
Coast Line v. North -CarolinaCorp. Com'n, 206 U. S. 1,
19, 27; Missouri Pacific Rwy. Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 262;
Grand Trunk Rwy. Co. v. Michigan Railroad Commission,
231 U. S. 457, 468.
It is argued that it was unreasonable to subject the
Railway Company to the expense incident to the use of
the cars of another carrier when it was ready to furnish
its own. The record affords no sufficient basis for this
contention. What the expense referred to would be was
not proved, and, in the absence of a suitable disclosure
of the pertinent facts, no case was made which would
justify the conclusion that in its practical operation the
regulation would impose any unreasonable burden. On
the other hand, the agreed statement makes it evident
that prior to the change which gave rise to this controversy
it was the practice of the Company to accept such shipments.
Finally, it is said that, the order of the Commission
interferes with interstate commerce because the cars in
question were the vehicles of that commerce and were
brought into the State as such. No question, however, is
presented here as between the shippers and the owners of
the cars, and no actual interference with interstate commerce is shown. Nor does it appear that any regulation
under Federal authority has been violated.
The plaintiff in error has failed to establish any ground
for invalidating the order of the Commission and the judgment must be affirmed.
Affirmed.

