OCTOBER TERM, -1913.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

233 U. S.

the same sort of property and on exactly the same terms,
is to make a discrimination which amounts to a denial of
the equal protection of the law.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

concur in this dissent.

WHEELER v. SOHMER, COMPTROLLER OF THE
STATE OF NEW YORK.
ERROR TO THE SURROGATES' COURT OF NEW YORK COUNTY,
STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 45.

Argued November 5, 6, 1913.-Decided April 20, 1914.

The provision in the New York Inheritance Tax Statute, imposing a
transfer tax on property within the State belonging to a non-resident
at the time of his death, is not unconstitutional under the due process
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment as applied to promissory notes
the makers of which are non-residents of that State. Buck v. Beach,
206 U. S. 392, distinguished.
202 N. Y. 550, affirmed.

facts, which involve the power of a State to tax
promissory notes located in the, State although neither the
owner nor the maker are residents thereof, are stated in
the opinion.
THE

Mr. Charles P. Howland for plaintiffs in error:
The taxation of the full value of the debts represented
by these promissory notes deprived the executors and
beneficiaries of the estate of their property without due
process of law, and was in contravention of the Fourteenth
Amendment.
Jurisdiction of a State for purposes of transfer or in-

WHEELER v. NEW YORK.
233 U. S.

Argument for P[aintiffs in Error.

heritance taxation is limited to property within the State,
in the senses in which that phrase has been recognized.
Metropolitan Life Ins. Co. v. New Orleans, 205 U. S. 395.
Promissory notes are only evidences of debt and not
the debts themselves. Their situs, therefore, is not the
situs of the debts; the situs of the debts is at the residence
of one or the other of the parties to the relation. Buck v.
Beach, 206 U. S. 392; Pelham v. Way, 15 Wall. 196.
As to the distinction between a debt and the evidence
establishing it, see Wyman v. Halstead, 109 U. S. 654;
Attorney General v. Bouwen, 4 M. & W. 171, 191; Hunter
v. Supervisors, 33 Iowa, 376; Hanson's Death Duties
(4th ed.), p. 239.
A note is the representative of a debt as a warehouse
receipt is the representative of personal property, but
such a receipt cannot be taxed at the value of the goods on
the theory that in some way it represents theni. Selliger
v. Kentucky, 213 U. S. 200.
The special factors which warrant inheritance taxation
upon choses in action belonging to the estates of nonresident decedents-control over the person of the debtor
or over the means of enforcement of the obligation-do not
exist here. Blackstone v. Miller, 188 U. S. 189 (semble).
In the case of choses in action the State of the owner's
domicile levies one tax, Matter of Swift, 137 N. Y. 77, while
the State of the debtor's domicile levies a tax "not because
of any theoretical speculation concerning the whereabouts
of the debt, but because of the practical fact of its power
over the person of the debtor "-in other words, because
it grants a practical privilege by providing means for the
collection of the debt. Blackstone v. Miller, 188 U. S. 189;
Matter of Houdayer, 150 N. Y. 37.
In this case the State of the decedent had no control
over the persons of the debtors. That control was in the
States of the debtors, Buck v' Beach, 206 U. S. 392, 407;
Chicago, R. I. & P. R'y v. Sturm, 174 U. S. 710, 715, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

233 U. S.

as neither the universal succession nor the control over
the means of enforcement was granted or could be regulated by the former State, that State had no power to tax.
The situs of bonds appears to determine the situs of
the debts they symbolize, but bonds have always been
sharply distinguished from promissory notes in that regard.
For certain purposes bonds have a peculiar recognition
in the common law, and for purposes of taxation, annual or
inheritance, are often treated as having a situs dependent
upon their physical whereabouts. Matter of Bronson, 150
N. Y. 1; Matter of Fearing, 200 N. Y. 340; State Tax on
ForeignHeld Bonds, 15 Wall. 300.
But the rule does not embrace promissory notes. Buck
v. Beach, 206 U. S. 392, 403.
This distinction between bonds and promissory notes
has a historical basis. Selliger v. Kentucky, 213 U. S. 200,
204.
A promissory note may be the subject of larceny.
People v. Ogdensburgh, 48 N. Y. 390, 397; Buck v. Beach,
206 U. S. 407.
At common law a promissory note was not within the
-law of larceny, Regina v. Watts, 6 Cox, C. C. 304, but
certificates of stock, warehouse receipts and policies of insurance are unquestionably the subjects of larceny (Penal
Law of New York, 1909, c. 88), although none of them is
the property whose situs determines the power of annual
or of inheritance taxation. Matter of James, 144 N. Y. 6;
Selliger v. Kentucky, 213 U. S. 200; Matter of Horn, 39
Misc. (N. Y.) 133.
Taxation rests upon protection as a correlative, and
when no protection is either practically or theoretically
possible, taxation should not be laid: this is the broad
basis for the rules limiting taxation. Union Transit Co. v.
Kentucky, 199 U. S. 194; Matter of Bronson, 150 N. Y. 1;
Cooley on Taxation (3d ed.), p. 3.

WHEELER v. NEW YORK.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

In this case the State of testator's domicile may tax,
and indeed does so (Public Laws of Connecticut, 1903,
c. 63), because it protects the universal succession.
The States of the debtors may tax, because they protect
the debts by affording recourse to their respective courts.
Matter of Daly, 100 App. Div. (N. Y.) 373; S. C., 182 N. Y.
524; Matter of Clinch; 180 N. Y. 300.
But New York has protected nothing.
If such taxation is allowed, triple taxation on many
kinds of choses in action is possible; in the case of a bill of
exchange issued in multiplicate, the domiciliary States of
the owner and of the primary obligor would be able to
tax, and also each State within which one of the multiplicate bills happened to be found at the owner's
death.
Mr. William Law Stout for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the judgment of the
court.
This proceeding began wi h a petition by an executor,
acting under ancillary letters, for the appointment of an
appraiser to determine the amount, if any, of the transfer
tax due from the estate of the deceased testator, Charles C.
Tiffany. Tiffany was not a resident of New York at the
time of his death but left in a safe deposit box in New York
four promissory notes made by Pottinger, a resident of
Chicago, secured by mortgages of Chicago land to Illinois
trustees, and promissory notes of the Southern Railway
Company, a Virginia corporation. The appraiser held
these notes taxable under the New York laws of 1905,
c. 368, ยง 1, amending ยง 220 of an earlier law and imposing
a tax "when the transfer is by will or intestate law, of
property within the State, and the decedent was a nonresident of the State at the time of his death." The Sur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

rogate confirmed the appraiser's report, and his order was
affirmed by the Appellate Division and the Court of
Appeals. 143 App. Div. 327. 202 N. Y. 550. The Executors contend that the tax deprives them of their property without due process of law.
In support of this position it was argued that if bonds
were subject to taxation simply because of their presence
within the jurisdiction it was due to the survival of
primitive notions that identified the obligations with the
parchment or paper upon which they were written, that
bills and notes had a different history, and that there was
no ground for extending the conceptions of the infancy of
the race to them. It was pointed out that the power to
tax simple contracts depends upon power over the person
of one of the parties and does not attach to documentary
evidence of such contracts that may happen to be within
the jurisdiction. Cases were cited in which 'this court has
pronounced bills and notes to be only evidences of the
simple contracts that they express, Pelham v. Way, 15
Wall. 196; Wyman v. Halstead, 109 U. S. 654, 656, and the
precise issue was thought to be disposed of by Buck v.
Beach, 206 U. S. 392. We shall discuss this case, but for
the moment it is enough to say that for the purposes of
argument we assume that bills and notes stand as mere
evidences at common law.
But we are bound by the construction given to the
New York statutes by the New York courts, and the
question is whether a statute that we must read as purporting to give to bills and notes within the State the same
standing as bonds for purposes of taxation, goes beyond
the constitutional power of the State. Again for the purposes of argument we may assume that there are limits
to this kind of power; that the presence of a deed would not
warrant a tax measured by the value of the real estate
that it had conveyed, or even that a memorandum of a
contract required by the statute of frauds would not sup-

WHEELER v. NEW YORK.
233 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

port a tax on the value of the contract because it happened
to be found in the testator's New York strong box. But
it is plain that bills and notes, whatever they may be
called, come very near to identification with the contract
that they embody. An indorsement of the paper carries
the contract to the endorsee. An indorsement in blank
passes the debt from hand to hand so that whoever has
-the paper has the debt. It is true that in some cases there
may be a recovery without producing and surrendering
the paper, but so may there be upon a bond in modern
times. It is not primitive tradition alone that gives their
peculiarities to bonds, but a tradition laid hold of, modified and adapted to the convenience and understanding of
business men. The same convenience and understanding
apply to bills and notes, as no one would doubt in the case
of bank notes, which technically do not differ from others.
It would be an extraordinary deduction from the Fourteenth Amendment to deny the power of a State to adopt
the usages and views of busiaess men in a statute on the
ground that it was depriving them of their property without due process of law. Thenecessity of caution in cutting
down the power of taxation on the strength of the Fourteenth Amendment often has been adverted to. Louisville
& Nashville R. R. Co. v. Barber Asphalt Paving Co., 197
U. S. 430, 434. Unless we are bound by authority, we
think the statute, so far as we now are concerned with it,
plainly within the power of the State to pass.
As to authority, it has been asserted or implied again
and again that the States had the power to deal with
negotiable paper on the footing of situs. "It is well settled
that bank bills and municipal bonds are in such a concrete
tangible form that they are subject to taxation where
found, irrespective of the domicil of the owner; . .
Notes and mortgages are of the same nature . . . we
see no reason why a State :may not declare that if found
within its limits they shall be subject to taxation." New

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

233 U. S.

Orleans v. Stempel, 175 U. S. 309, 322, 323. Bristol v.
Washington County, 177 U. S. 133, 141. State Board of
Assessors v. Comptoir National d'Escompte, 191 U. S. 388,
403, 404. Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. v. New Orleans,
205 U. S. 395, 400, 402. This is the established law unless
it has been overthrown by the decision in Buck v. Beach,
206 U. S. 392.
No such effect should be attributed to that case. The
Ohio notes in Buck's hands that were held not to be taxable in Indiana were moved backward and forward between Ohio and Indiana with the intent to avoid taxation
in either State. 206 U. S. 402. They really were in Ohio
hands for business purposes, ibid., 395, and sending them
to Indiana was spoken of by Mr. Justice Peckham as
improper and unjustifiable. Ibid. 402. Their absence
from Ohio evidently was regarded as a temporary absence
from home. Ibid. 404. And the conclusion is carefully
limited to a refusal to hold the presence of the notes "under the circumstances already stated" to amount to the
presence of property within the State. A distinction was
taken between the presence sufficient for a succession tax
like that in this case, and that required for a property
tax such as then was before the court, and the only point
decided was that the notes had no such presence in Indiana as to warrant a property tax. See New York Central
& Hudson River R. R. Co. v. Miller, 202 U. S. 584, 597.
If Buck v. Beach is not to be distinguished on one of the
foregoing grounds, as some of us think that it can be, we
are of opinion that it must yield to the current of author-.
ities to which we have referred.
In the case at bar it must be taken that the safe deposit
box in which the notes were found was their permanent
resting place and therefore that the power of the State
so repeatedly asserted in our decisions could come into
play.
Judgment affirmed.

WHEELER v. NEW YORK.
233 U. S.

McKENNA, J., concurrinig.

MR. JUSTICE McKtNNA, concurring.
I concur in the result, but cannot concur in the reasoning of the opinion, or rather its controlling proposition
unmodified. I might pass it by in silence if it did not have
larger consequence than thedecision of the pending case.
The opinion is rested on the proposition, said to be based
on authority, that the States have power to deal "with
negotiable paper on the footing of situs," that is, to regard
such paper so far concrete and tangible as to be of itself
a subject of taxation, irrespective of the domicile of its
owner or, I add, the locality of the debt which it represents. For the proposition announced, Mr. Justice Brewer,
in New Orleans v. Stempel, 175 U. S. 309, is quoted from.
Other cases are cited and it is said to be established law
unless it has been overthrown by the decision in Buck v.
Beach, 206 U. S. 392. I refrain from meeting the judgment of my brethren by simply opposing assertion, and I
feel constrained to review the cases, including Buck v.
Beach. I will do so in the order of their decision.
Commencing with the Stempel Case I may immediately
say of it that its facts did not call for the broad and general
declaration it is adduced to sustain. The statute passed
on did not attempt to tax negotiable paper simply because
of its presence in the State. It regarded the origin and
use of such paper and declared its (the statute's) purpose
to be that no non-resident, by himself or through an agent,
should transact business in the State "without paying
to the State a corresponding tax with that exacted of its
own citizens," and, to execute the purpose, declared: "All
bills receivable, obligations or credits arising from the
business done in this State are hereby declared assessable
within this State, and at the business domicil of said nonresident, his agent or representative."
The property assessed was inherited by Stempel's wards,
they and she being residents of the State of New York. It

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
MCKENNA, J., concurring.

233 U. S.

was assessed to the estate of the grandfather of the wards,
and was $15,000, "money in possession, on deposit, or in
hand," and 800,000, "money loaned or advanced, or for
goods sold; and all credits of any and every description."
The contention was that "the situs of the loans and credits
was in New York, the place of residence of the guardian
and wards, and, therefore, being loans and credits without
the State of Louisiana, they were not subject to taxation
therein."
The question presented by the contention, this court
said, was whether, under the statute as interpreted by the
Supreme Court of the State, the properties were subject
to taxation, and, if so subject, whether any rights secured
by the Federal Constitution were thereby infringed. The
tax was sustained, but it will be observed that negotiable
paper was not assessed at all or dealt with as an entity
separate from what it represented. The notes which
represented the credits taxed were, it is true, in New Orleans, but in possession of the agent of Stempel. Not they,
but the rights of which they were the evidence were taxed.
The broad declaration, therefore, that negotiable paper
had such tangibility as to be of itself a taxable entity was
not called for. The true value of the case and its application to the case at bar can be estimated when we consider
the other cases.
In Bristol v. Washington County, 177 U. S. 133, notes
secured by mortgages in the State (Minnesota) were taxed.
The question was of their situs. The state court put its
decision on the ground that the notes were in the State
for collection or renewal with a view of reloaning the
money and keeping it invested as a permanent business.
And this court in its decision said that "credits secured by
mortgages, the result of the business of investing and reinvesting moneys in the State, were subject to taxation as
having their situs there." The ruling was affirmed. We
said, by Mr. Chief Justice Fuller; "Persons are not per-

WHEELER v. NEW YORK.
233 U. S.

MCKENNA, J., Concurring.

mitted to avail themselves for their own benefit of the
laws of a State in the conduct of business within its limits,
and then to escape their due contribution to the public
needs through action of this sort, whether taken for convenience or by design" (p. 144).
In Board of Assessors v. Comptoir National d'Escompte,
191 U. S. 388, credits in the form of checks were taxed
under the same statute considered in the Stempel Case.
They were held in the State for investment and reinvestment, and this was the basis of the decision. The
checks, it was said, became a credit for money loaned,
localized in Louisiana, protected by it and within the
scope of its taxing laws as construed by the Supreme Court.
And we further said, after reviewing the Stempel Case and
the Bristol Case: "From these, caseq it may be taken as the
settled law of this court that there is no inhibition in the
Federal Constitution against the right of the State to tax
property in the shape of credits where the same are evidenced by notes or obligations held within the State, in
the hands of an agent of the owner for the purpose of collection or renewal, with a view to new loans and carrying
on such transactions as a permanent business" (p. 403).
In Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. v. New Orleans, 205
U. S. 395, the assessment was also under the act passed
on in the Stempel Case. I will not pause to detail the facts.
.It is enough to say that the credits taxed were loans (evidenced by notes) by the insurance company to its policy
holders in Louisiana. The tax was not eo nomine on the
notes but was expressed to be on "credits, money loaned,
bills receivable," etc., and its amount was ascertained by
computing the sum of the face value of all the notes held
by the company at the time of the assessment.
The purpose of the taxing law was said to be to lay
the burden of taxation equally upon those who do business within the State. And, after comment, it was said
(p. 399):" Thus it is clear that the measure of the taxation

OCTOBER 'TERM, 1913.
MCKENNA, J., concurring.

233 U. S.

designed by the law is the fair average of the capital employed in the business." In other words, the investments
in the State were taxed and the legality of the tax was
determined by their situs, not by the locality of the notes
which represented them, the notes being in New York at
the home of the insurance company.
It was the situs of the debt which determined the legality of the taxation in all of the cases and united them
under the principle expressed in Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. v. New Orleans, that the law regards the place
of the origin of negotiable paper as its true home, to which
it will return to be paid, and its temporary absence can
be left out of account. They do not support the broad
proposition that to negotiable paper can be ascribed such
tangibility and entity as so to make it a taxable object of
itself in a jurisdiction other than that of the obligation
it represents. This broad generality is necessary to sustain the tax in the present case if it can be regarded a
direct tax on property, for Illinois, not New York; is the
situs of the debts of which the notes taxed are the evidence,
and of the mortgages which secure them.
That broad proposition was asserted in Buck v. Beach
and rejected. The notes involved had their origin in Ohio
and represented investments in that State. Their owner
died, and one of the two trustees of his will resided in Indiana. The notes were kept in the custody of the latter
except that at the time of,assessment of taxes in that State
they were sent to Ohio and after the lapse of a few days
returned to him. They were taxed in Indiana. The tax
was sustained by the State Supreme Court but declared
invalid by this court.
The proposition presented for decision was stated thus
by Mr. Justice Peckham for the court: " The sole question
then for this court is whether the mere presence of the
notes in Indiana [the taxing State] constituted the debts
of which the notes were the written evidence, property

WHEELER v. NEW YORK
233 U. S.

MCKENNA,

J., concurring.

within the jurisdiction of that State, so that such debts
could be therein taxed" (p. 400). The prior cases were
considered, and it was said: "There are no cases in this
court where an assessment such as the one before us has
been involved. We have not had a case where neither the
party assessed nor the debtor was a resident of or present in
the State where the tax was imposed, and where no business
was done therein by the owner' of the notes or his agent relating
in any way to the capital evidenced by the notes assessed for
taxation. We cannot assent to the doctrine that the mere
presence of evidences of debt, such as these notes, under
the circumstances already stated, amounts to the presence
of property within the State" (p. 406). And it was
pointed out that the prior cases, which were specifically
reviewed, gave no support to the rejected doctrine. It
was not overlooked that certain specialty debts, state and
municipal bonds and circulating notes of banking institutions, have sometimes been treated as property where they
were found though removed from the domicile of the
owner, and State Tax on Foreign-heldBonds, 15 Wall. 300,
324, was cited. Promissory notes were held not to be
within the rule.
It is, however, asserted that the circumstances of the
case showed that the notes were fugitives from taxation,
alternately from Indiana and Ohio, and that their stay
in Indiana was in evasion 'of their obligations to Ohio
and was "a transit, although prolonged." But the bad
motive of the possessor of the notes was not made a ground
of decision. If the court felt a retributive impulse to deny
the notes sanctuary in Indiana it was suppressed. The
court declared that the motive for sending the notes to
Indiana was of no consequence and that the attempt to
escape proper taxation in Ohio did not confer jurisdiction
on Indiana to tax them (p. 402).
But we are not required to overrule Buck v. Beach nor
make it yield in any particular in order to sustain the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
LAMAR, J., dissenting.

tax in the case at bar.

233 U. S.

It, in effect, reserved from its

principle inheritance or succession taxing acts by rejecting
as not in point cases which involved them. We said,
"The foundation upon which such acts rest is different
from that which exists where the assessment is levied upon
property. The succession or inheritance tax is not a tax
on property, as has been frequently held by this court,
Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41, and Blackstone v. Miller,
188 U. S. 189, and therefore the decisions arising under
such inheritance tax cases are not in point" (p. 408).
The tax under review is of that kind. In other words,
it is not a tax on property, but a tax upon the transfer
of the property by the will of the testator of plaintiffs in
error as provided by the laws of the State. The will was
probated in Connecticut, where the deceased was a resident, but ancillary letters of administration were issued
to plaintiffs in error by the Surrogates' Court, County of
New York, State of New York, and the taxed notes were
part of the property disposed of by his will. It appears,
therefore, that the property is in the control of the courts
of New York. In other words, the laws of New York are
invoked, accomplish its transfer and subject it to the dispositions of the will and make effectual the purposes of the
testator. Blackstone v. Miller, supra.
I am dealing with the power of taxation under our decisions. If there be injustice in its exercise by measuring the
tax by the value of the credits represented by the notes,
it is an injustice which this court cannot redress.
I am authorized to say that MR. JUSTICE PITNEY concurs in this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE LAmAR, dissenting.

I concur in Mr. Justice McKenna's analysis of Buck v.
Beach and the other cases, but am of the opinion that the
principle there decided, applies as well to inheritance and

NADAL v. MAY.
233 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

transfer taxes on notes as to direct taxes and that, there-

fore, the judgment in the present case should be reversed.
I am authorized to say that THE CHIEF JUSTICE and
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER concur in this dissent.

NADAL v. MAY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
PORTO RICO.
No. 130. Submitted December 12, 1913; Restored to docket for reargu.
ment January 26, 1914; Reargued April 6, 7, 1914.-Decided April 20,
1914.
The Civil Code of Porto Rico of March 1, 1902, did not go into effect
until July 1, 1902, Ortega v. Lara, 202 U. S. 339, and prior thereto
the wife's assent to a conveyance by her husband was not necessary.
Decisions of this court and of the local courts as to the date when a
code of law making ,material changes in the prior existing law went
into effect may well become a rule of property which should not be
disturbed by subsequent conflicting decisions.
This court, as a general rule, is unwilling to overrule local tribunals
upon matters of purely local concern. SantaFe CentralRy. v. Friday,
232 U. S. 694.
5 P. R. Fed. Rep. 582, affirmed.

THE

facts, which involve the validity of title to land in

Porto Rico, and determination of the date when the Civil

Code of 1902 went into effect, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. N. B. K. Pettingill, with whom Mr. F. L. Cornwell
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
There was error in determining the meaning of the will.

The translation of the official interpreter was not conclusive and the construction based thereon is erroneous.
There was error in the admission and exclusion of evi-

