DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

898

Porter.e al. Foy.

that purpose. And in the class of cases above mentioned, in
which affidavits are received, there is no instance in which a
case has been postponed or reinstated, in order to give*the
party time to produce affidavits of value. Indeed, such a practice would be irregular and inconvenient, and might sometimes
produce conflicting affidavits, and bring on a controversy about
value, occupying as much of the time of the court as the merits
of the case.
And if this case were one of those in which affidavits could
be received, they come too late after the case hag been heard
and dismissed for want of jurisdiction. But it is not a case of
that description, The value of the lots about to be sold for
corporation taxes was involved directly in the dispute. Their
value is stated in the bill, and the 'amount of taxes imposed
upon them, in order to show that the overcharge made by the
corporation was unieasonable and oppregsive; and their value
is stated by the complairant to be "over $500 "-the sum
mentioned being only one-fourth of the amount required to
give jurisdiction to this court; and where the value is stated
in the pleadings or poceedings of the court below, affidavits
here have never been received to vary it or enhance it, in order
to give jurisdiction. And the affidavit now offered could not
have been received, even if filed before the argument of the
case.
The motion to reinstate -istherefore" overruled.,

JAmEs D. PORTER ET AL., PLAINTIFS IN ERROR, V. BUSHROD W.
FOLEY.
This' court has already decided at the present term (see page 195 of this volume)
that a writ of error made returnable on the third Monday in January, and the
defendant in error cifed to appear on that day, is irregular, and mustbe dismissed.
A motion to remand the cage to the.court below, with leave to amend the writ of
error and citation, cannot be granted. But if the plaintiff in error desires it,
he may, in order to save expense, withdraw the transcript, and use it' in connection with the proper and legal process to bring the case here.

THIS case was brought up from the Court of Appeals of

SUPREME COURT.
Harlin v. Ikmsen.

Kentucky by a writ of error issued under the 25th section of
the judiciary act.
A motion was made to dismiss the writ, upon the ground
stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The writ of error in this case was issued on the 27th day of
December last, and made returnable on the third Monday in
January, aad- the defendant in error cited to appear on that
day.
It has already been decided at the present term, in the case
of Insurance Co. of the Valley of Virginia v. Mordecai, that
such a writ of error cannot be supported, and does not bring
the case before the court.
A motion has been made, on behalf of the plaintiff in error,
to remand the case to the court below, with leave to amend
the writ of error and citation. But, as the transcript stands,
there is no case before us in which we can exercise a power of
amendment. We-can do nothing more than dismiss it for
want of jurisdiction.
But if the plaintiff desires it, he may, in order to save expense, withdraw the transcript, and use it in connection with
the proper and legal process to bring the case here; and if
withdrawn, a receipt for it must be left with the clerk.
But as it now. stands, it must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

FRANCIS

MARTIN,

A-DMINISTRATOR

OF DENNIS

T.

DONOVAN,

DECEASED, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. CHRISTIAN IM1HSEN.
In Pennsylvania, where a transfer of certain accounts was made, the assignes

had only an equitable interest, and could not sue in his own name. But when
the suit was brought in Louisiana, where there is no distinction between a legal
and equitable title, he.could maintain the suit in his own name, and the assignment svas-g-ood evidence.
An exceiption taken'to the refusal of a judge to sign a bill of exceptions, -anderthe
circumstances of this case, requires no further notice.

