SUPREME COURT.
Chamberlainet al. v. Ward et al.

PHILo CHAMBERLAIN AND JOHN H.
THE

PROPELLER OGDENSBU-RGH,

CRAWFORD, CLAIMANTS 0A
APPELLANTS,

V. EBER

B

WARD AND STEPHEN CLEMENT, SURVIVORS OF SAMUEL WARD
DECEASED.

kn a collision which took place up6n Lake Erie, between the propeller Ogden&
burgh and the steamer Atlantic, the propeller was in fault1. Because she did not have a competent and skilful officer in charge of hey
deck, and his want of qualifications and skilfulness contributed to the collision. Owners of steamships must employ skilful and competent officers; an?
the remark is just as applicable to the under officers, whether the mate o,
second mate, -as to the mas.ter, during all the time they have charge of th,
deck.
2. Because she did not have signal lights properly displayed, as required by law
But the failure to show the lights, which are directed by the act of Congress
does not of itself throw the entire responsibility-upoit the offending phrty, whert
the other vessel also is in-fault.
3. Because the officer in charge of her deck neglected to seasonably change her
helm, and persistently kept her on her course, after he discovered the signal
lights of the steamer.
The Atlantic was in fault1. Because the officer in charge of her deck did not exercise proper vigilance to
ascertain the character of the approaching vessel, after he discovered the white
lights, which subsequently proved to be the white lights of the propeller.
2. She was also in fault because the officer of her deck did not. seasonably and
effectually change the course of the vessel, or slow or stop her engines after he
discovered those lights, so as to prevent collision.
3. Because she did not have a vigilant and sufficient look-out. Ocean steamers
usually have two look-outs, in addition to the officer of the deck; and in general they are stationed, one on the larboard and the other on the starboard side
of the vessel, as far forward as possible, and, during, the time they are so engaged, they have no other duties to perform; and no reason is perceived why
any less precaution should be taken by first-class steamers on the lakes.
Being a case bf mutual fault7 the decre4 of the Circuit Court, apportioning the
damages,. is, affirmed.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the southern district of Ohio.
It was a case of collision between the propeller Ogdensburgh
and the steamer Atlantic, under the circumstances which are
particularly set forth in the opinion of the court.

DECEIBER TERM, 1858.

549

Okamberlaind al. v. Ward et aL

The reader will bear in mind the difference between the
white lights, which are carried by all vessels, and the signal
lights required by the act of Congress of 1849 to be carried by
steamboats and propellers navigating the lakes. These are
directed to be a triangular light, shaded green on the starboard
side and red on the larboard side, with reflectors, and to be uf
a size to insure a good and sufficient light.
It was argu~d by Mr. S"nbery and Mr. Spaldinj for the appellants, and by Mr. _ANewberry and Mr. Swayne for the appellees.
All that the reporter can do in the present case is merely to
state the general propositions upon each side, without stating

the numerous arguments, illustrations, and authorities, by
which they were supported.
The following points are taken from the brief of Mr. Spatding for the appellants:
1. The propeller Ogdensburgli was on her true coarse, northeast by east, when she first made the steamer's light.
2. She did not change her course.
8. It was the duty of the propeller, under existing circumstances, to keep her course. To have thrown her helm "a-port,"
with the steamer from two to three points of the compass on'her
starboard bow, would have been a gross violation of the rules
of navigation. (London Packet, 2 Robinson, jun., 218; Steamer
Ocean, 1Nautical Magazine, vol. 1, No. 5, p. 355; Steam Tug
American Law Register, vol.
Sampson, 3 Wallace, jun., -;
Olcott's
Rep., 428.)
The
Santa
Claus,
8, p. 837;
4. The light of the Atlantic, as first made from the propeller, was by no means "a red signal light;" it was an ordinary
white light. The Atlantic was only three or four times her
length off, and was consequently swinging under "a port
helm," when she showed her "red light" to the propeller.
5. At the instant-of collision, and when it was inevitable,
the helm of the propeller was ordered "a-starboard." But the
testimony shows that the object was solely tolessen the amount

SUPREME COURT.
Chamberlainet al. v. Ward et al.

of damage by receiving a glancing stroke upon the bows, rather
than a direct blow upon the broadside of the propeller.
The headway of this vessel was then so much deadened, that
the eiect of "starboarding the helm" was scarcely perceptible.
Be this as it may, however, the steamboat had no right to
place the propeller in such jeopardy that the error of a moment
might cause her destruction. If an error was committed in
giving the. order to "starboard,!' it could not, under the circum-

stances, be deemed "a fault." (The Prop. Genesee Chief v.
Fitzhugh et al., 12 Howard U. S. Rep., 461; Shute v. Goslee, Am. Law Reg., voL 8, p. 476.)
6. 'The propeller displayed proper lights.
7. The propeller kept a vigilant "look-out," was managed in
a prudent and seamanlike manner, and adopted all proper precautions to avoid the collision.
The steamer Atlantic was wholly in fault:
1. She had no sufficient "look-out" on the night in question. The inside of the pilot-house was not the proper place
from whence to keep watch for approaching vessels. "A
competent and vigilant ' look-out' should have been stationed
at the forward part of the steamer, in the position best adapted
to descry vessels at the earliest moment." (St., John v. Paine
et al., 10 Howard, 585; The Genesee Chief v. Fitzhugh, 12
Howard, 462; The Schooner Catharine v. Dickenson et al., 17
Howard, 177; The Europa, 2 Eng. L. and Eq. Rep., 563 and
564; The Diana, 1 Rob., jun., 131; Pritchard's Admiralty
Digest, p. 163, sec. 50, and note; Steamboat New York v. Rea,
18 Howard, 225; The William K. Perrin v. The Louisiana,
Am. Law Reg., vol. 6, p. 427.)
2. The master and chief mate were in bed while the steamboat was running at a rapid rate in a locality much frequented
by vessels, through an atmosphere so smoky that the character
and course of the propeller could not be determined at the distance of half a mile.
3.The steamboat was greatly in fault in not diminishing
her speed when she found herself in elose proximity with
another vessel, of whose character and course she was ignorant. (The Rose, 2 Rob., jun., pp. 2, S8; The Virgil, ib., 205;

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

551

Chamberlainet al. v. Ward d al.

The Birkenhead, 3 Rob., jun., 75; The Perth, 3 Haggard, 414,
417; The Rainbow, 11 Am. Law Jour., 332; Peck v. Sanderson, 17 How., 181; The Genesee" Chief, 12 How., 463; The
Northern Indiana, Judge Hall, Manuscript; The Steam-tug
Sampson, Justice Grier, vol. 3, Am. Law Register, 340;
Shute v. Goslee, Justice Campbell, ib., 475; The Europa, 2
Eng.. Law and Eq., 559.) In the case of the New York and
Virginia Steamship Company v. Calderwood et. al., (19 How,
Rep., 241,) Mr. Justice Campbell says, (page 246,) "In the
present instance, the steamer had notice that a vessel was
before her, and was near her track, and, under the circumstances, she was bound to take efficient measures to avoid the
schooner."
4. Having neglected to "ease her engine," which would
have been, to say the least, a proper precautionary measure,
under the circumstances, the burden rests upon the Atlantic
to show that the collision was not owing to that neglect, but
would have equally happened if she had performed her duty.
(Schooner' Lion, Judge Sprague, 6 Law Reporter, 117; The
Anita v. The Steamboat Anglo-Norman et. al., MeCaleb,
Judge Easteri Dist. of Louisiana, Newberry's Ad. Rep., 494.)
.5. The steamboat committed an unpardonable fault when
she threw her helm "a-port," and attempted to cross the bows
of the propeller. In fact, the collision was brought about by
this rash and unskilful manceuvre. (The London Packet, 2
Rob., jun., 213; The Emily, Blatchford's Rep.,-236; The Rambow, 11 Am. Law Journal, 332; The Steam-tug Sampson, 3
Am. Law Register, 339; Steamer Ocean, 1 Naut. Mag., 355;
Northern Indiana, Judge Hall, Manuscript; The James Watt,
2 Rob., jun., .270; The Friends, 4 Moore, 314; Pritchard's Ad.
Digest, 171, note 98; The Steamer Oregon et. al. v. Rocca
et. al., 18 How., 572.)
. 6. After the collision, the Atlantic was blamable in not
having attempted to ascertain whether the Ogdensburgh required asistance. (The Celt, 3 Haggard, 327.)
-The following were the points made by the counsel for the
appellees, which were sustained by numerous authorities:

SUPREMfE COURT.
Chamberlainet al. v. Ward et al.

1. Time and distance cannot be accurately estimated by
Witnesses.
2. The speed of the Atlantic was not illegal, and it was not
her duty to slow at any moment before the collision.
The speed of the Atlantic was such as is universal in similar
circumstances by steamers of her class and power, and there is
nothing in the English or American decisions to establish a
rule of law in hostility to her right so to run, &c.
We submit, then, it is clear there is no rule of law showing
that on such a night, in the broad lake where it is thirty miles
wide, we might not run as the experts all swear is the universal
usage.
We submit that the great object to be accomplished by the
law of Congress in relation to lights, by enabling speed to be
kept up with safety at night, is not to be defeated. See the
Supervising Engineers' Chart, saying, if these rules are followed,
there is equal safety by niglt or by day.
But we have said two questions arise: first, whether our
general speed, according to the usage of steamers of our class,
was proper; and second, whether, after we came in close proximity, and saw the character and course of the Ogdensburgh,
we should then have slowed our engine, and endeavored to
stop.
As to this second proposition, we say:
It was not the duty of the Atlantic to abate her speed in the
least, when the close proximity of the vessels enabled her to
discover the true character of the Ogdensburgh.
Although we deem this a mere question of fact, dependent
upon the proof of what is the practice and of what men of
great experience deem prudent, still there are a few cases so
peculiarly applicable to the circumstances of our own, where
the reasons and illustrations of the judges are so illustrative
of the policy of our own course, that we thought best to place
them in our legal brief. The following case, decided a few
months since in England, bears in its facts a more close re
semblance to ours thaft is often found between adjudicated
cases and that in judgment before the court. (3 Wni. Robin.
son, p. 191, The Rob Roy; 9 Eng. Ad., p. 191.)

DEC'EMIBER TERM, 1858.

553

Chaqnberlainet al.v. Ward et al.

3. The look-out of the Atlantic was in his prober place.
But one was required. The decisions sustain both these positions.
But if we are mistaken in our position that the look-out of
the Atlantic was sufficient, then the same fault is undeniably
attributable to the Ogdensburgh.
4. .It was the duty of the Ogdensburgh to port, and pass to
the right, and not attempt to cross the bows of the Atlantic.
5., The Ogdensburgh being without the lights required by
the act of Congress, March 3d, 1849, her owners, by iis express provisions, are liable for all damages occasioned by th6
omission. (See 9 Stat. at L., p. 882, sec. 51 ; 4 Sandford, 492 ;
22 Law and Equity, 460; 5 How., 465; Conkling's Ad., 808.)
6. It is not sufficient to bring the Atlantic within the rule
of admiralty, which divides the damages equally in cases of
mutual fault, to shoW that we have not exercised the utmost
care and dilig3e p'bssible in the circumstances.
A reason'able prudence is all which the law demands.
7. Even were we to grant that the Ogdensburgli was to the
north, on a N. t. by E. course, and that we were on a course
of S. W. by W., and to the south of theirs, still, as we saw no
lights but those of a sail vessel, and had, as a .steamer,.the
right to select the side on which we would go, and to presume
that she would keep her course, being a sail vessel, we were
not in fault for porting our wheel, and crossing -her bows.
Had she been in fact what her lights indicated, our course was
lawful: and in this case no collision would have occurred.
Mr. Justice CLI'FORD delivered the opinion of the court
This'was a suit in personam, and comes before the court by
appeal from the: Circuit Court of-the United States for the
southern district of Ohio, sitting in admiralty. It was comnmenced by the present appellees, a owners of the steamer At
lantfe, against the appellants. as owners of the propeller Og
,densburgh, and grew out of a collision which occurred on
Lake*Erie. between those vessels on the 20th" day of August,
1852, whereby the propeller received damage, and the steamer
was run down and lost. Some change was made in the nature

.554

SUPREME COURT.
ChamberZainet al. v. Ward et al.

and character of the proceeding after the suit was instituted,
making it necessary that a brief exlanation should be given,
in- order that the present state of the pleadings may not be
misunderstood. According to the transcript, the original libel
was filed fin the clerk's office of the District Court on the 27th
day of October, 1852, and on the same day a process of attachment against the propeller, and.monition to her owners, was
taken out, and was subsequently served, pursuant to its mandate, by attaching the vessel, publishing notice to those inter
ested, and summoning the respondents. On the 11th day ot
November following, an amended libel was filed in court, setting forth more in detail the circumstances of the collision and
the grounds of the claim as made by the libellants. As
amended, however, the libel still retained in some of its aspects the form of a proceeding in rem against the vessel, and a
suit in personam against her owners.
In the answer, which was not filed till after the process was
served, the appellants, as claimants of the propeller and respondents in this suit, excepted to the form of the libel, alleging
that the two modes of proceeding were improperly joined, and
prayed that the libel should be dismissed on that account.
At the hearing in the District Court, the exception of the respondents for a misjoinder was sustained, and thereupon the
libellants, on motion for leave, were permitted to amend and
change the proceeding to the form of a suit inpersonamagainst
the appellants as owners of the propeller, and the cause was
allowed to progress, and in that form of proceeding the parties
were ultimately heard upon the merits of the controversy.
Another explanation is also necessary, connected with the an
swer of the respondents, as without it the subsequent proceed
ings in the cause would appear to have been irregular, and
certainly would be incomprehensible. Ofn the 26th day of
April, 1853, the parties entered into an agreement to the effect
that the answer of the respondents in this suit should operate
as a cross-libel for the damage sustained by the propeller, and
that the claims of both parties to damiage should be considered
by the court in weighing the evidence, and be adjudicated
upon in the final decree; and in order to facilitate the investi-

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

555

Chamberlainet at. v. Ward d aLZ

gation, it was admitted in the case that the damage sustained
by the propeller amounted to the sum of three thousand dollars, and that the value of the steamer was seventy-five thousand dollars. Other interlocutory proceedings were had in
the cause which it is not important to notice, and testimony
was taken on both sides, and at the final hearing on the 10th
day of May following a decree was entered, that the libel be
dismissed with costs; and under the authority conferred by
the agreement that the answer should operate as a cross-libel,
it was farther ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that- the libellants pdy to the respondents, within thirty days, the sum of
three thousand dollars, with interest, as the damage which the
propeller sustained by the collision.
From that decree the libellants appealed to the Circuit tourt.
Much additional testimony was taken in the Circuit Court, and
after a full hearing on the 12th of November, 1856, upon the
pleadings as modified, and the proofs adduced by the respective parties, it was ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that the
decree of the District Court be in all things reversed, and a
final decree was entered, to the effect that the damages occasioned by the collision, together with the costs in both courts,
be equally divided, and that each party bear a moiety of the
same; and that the respondents, pursuant to the admission- of
the parties as to the amount of the damage, pay to the libel]ants the sum of thirty-six thousand dollars. Whereupon the
parties respectively appealed to this court, and the appeals have
been separately docketed in conformity to the agreement of
the parties, that the answer of the respondents should operate
as a cross-libel for the damage sustained by the propeller.
Some reference to the pleadings touching the merits of the
controversy now becomes necessary, before we proceed to the
consideration of the matters of fact in dispute between the parties in this suit.
According to the allegations of the libel, the steamer Atlantic was duly enrolled and licensed, and was regularly employed
in transporting passengers and freight, making semi-weekly
trips each vay, to and from Detroit, in the State of Michigan,
and Buffalo, in the State of New York. She left Buffalo at

-156

- SUPREME COURT.
Chamberlainet al. v. Ward et al.

the usual hour in the.evening of the 19th of August, 1852,
with freight and a large number of passengers on board, bound
on her regular trip to the port of Detroit. And the libellants
allege that she wag a tight, strong vessel,, and in every respect
well manned, equipped and appointed for the voyage, with a
full complement of officers and men; and that those to whom
the duty properly belonged were at the time of the disaster on
the look-out for the safety and protection of the vessel. They
also allege that after leaving Buffalo she proceeded on her voyage in the usual route across the lake, with all her signal-lights
displayed as required by law; that while she was so proceedig, at about half past two o'clock in the morning of the following day, and when she was off Long Point) on the Canada
shore, the propeller Ogdensburgh, then being on her way from
Clevelan'd to the entrance of the Welland canal, came upon
the steamer, and with great force and violence ran into her,
the bow of the propeller striking the larboard side of the
steamer near the forward gaingway, breaking and crushing by
the force and violence of the- collision into and through the
guard and hull of the vessel, so that she filled with-water and
sunk, and became wholly lost to the libellants.
Other matters of fact, material to the issue, are also set forth
in the 'libel, and among the number are the following: that
the propeller, before and at the time of the collision, did not
have burning, and properly displayed, the signal lights required
by law;' that she was not then proceeding in the usual route
from Cleveland to the entrance of the canal, and that those in
charge -of 'her when she came in sight of the lights of the
-steamer neither stopped her engines, nor slackened her speed,
nor altered her course, nor took any-other precaution to prevent or avoid a collision; and the libellants aver that it was
otherwise with those in charge of the- steamer; that as soon as
they perceived the lights of the propeller approaching, they
put the wheel of the steamer first a-port, and then hard a-port,
turninig her course to the right, away from the propeller, as by
law it was their duty to do, and that they made every effort in
their power to avoid a collision; and, finally, that the persons
in charge of the propeller, 'though they.saw the lights of the

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

55?

Chamberlain et al. v. Ward et al.

steamer at a great distance, and in ample time to have prevented the disaster, did not put the wheel of the propeller
a-port, or turn their vessel to the right, away from the steamer,
as they were bound to do;. nor did they stop or slow the engine, or display lawful signal lights, but so negligently, improperly, and unskilfully- navigated their vessel that she ran
directly and almost at right angles into and against the steamer,
and thereby occasioned the disaster. Many of the affirmative.
facts alleged in the libel are expressly controverted in the answer filed by the respondents. They deny that the steamer
was a tight, strong vessel, or that she was well manned and
appointed for the voyagei and tney also deny that the proper
persons were on the look-out for the protection and safety of
the vessel, or that tho e in charge of the steamer took any precautionary measures to.prevent the collision.
In addition to these denials they allege, as'matter of defence,
that the propeller, a vessel of three hundred and fifty-three tons
burden, left Cleveland on the day preceding -the dissAter, at
about twenty minutes past twelve o'clock, deeply laden, and
proceeded on her voyage, by the way of Fairmount, towards
Ogdensburgh, her place of destination, which was to be reached
through the canal before mentioned; that about two o'clock
the next morning, and when she was steering northeast by
east, on" her proper course to the entrance of the canal, the
wind being light and the weather somewhat hazy, the watch
on her'deck discovered the light of a steamer from two to three
points off her larboard bow, which was supposed to be three
miles distant; that the propeller kept on her course, running
at a speed of about seven miles an hour, until the mate, who
had the watch, ascertaining that the light was fast approaching the propeller,. gave the signal to slow, which was obeyed;
and soon after, on discovering that the light was coming still
nearer, signalled to stop; and then, finding that the vessels
were likely to come in contact, he directed the engine to be
reversed, and gave the order to back; bit in spite of all these
precautionary measures the collision ensued.
Respeefing the immediate cause of the collision, the theory
of the respondents is, that the steamer, if she had held her

SUPREME COURT.
Chamberlainet al. v. Ward et al.

course southwest by west, would have passed the propeller
nearly a mile on her starboard quarter; and they accordingly
allege, that by putting her helm a-port her course was turned
to the right, so as to bring her across the bows of the propeller.
And they also allege, in this connection, that the steamer was
running with unabated speed, at the rate of fifteen miles an
hour, when she fell with all her momentum upon the stem of
the propeller, wrenching it out of its place, and carrying the
propeller half round as she ran on her course.
And they finally allege that the persons in charge of the
propeller, from the moment they first discovered the light of
the steamer to the time of the collision, managed their vessel
ac-ording to the most approved rules of navigation; and that
the collision was wholly owing to the fault, neglect, and unskilfulness, of the officers and crew of the steamer, in changing
her course across the path of the propeller, and in their culpable omission to stop the steamer, after it was found that such
change of course increased the danger, by bringing the tivo
vessels closer together. And, in accordance with the theory
that the steamer was wholly in fault, they pray that their answer may be taken -as a cross-libel in their behalf, to recover
the damage sustained by the propeller, and that such sum may
be decreed to them, by reason of the collision, as in justice
they are entitled to receive.
Such is the substance of the pleadings, so far as respects the
circumstances of the collision, and all the matters of fact to be
determined, by the court.
Since the suit was commenced, the parties have examined
more than one hundred witnesses; and their testimony, as
exhibited, fills nearly four hundred pages of the. transcript.
In that state of the case, a particular analysis of the testimony
of each witness, and a comparison of ?leir respective statements, will not be attempted, as its effect would be to extend
the investigation beyond all reasonable limits, without any
practical benefit to either party. All that can be done, under
the circumstances, will be to state the material facts proved,
and to refer to such brief porticns of the evidence as seems to
be necessary to confirm our conclusions. Conflicting testi.

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

559

Cliarberlainet al. v. Ward et al.

mony we have endeavored to reconcile, where it was possible;
and when not so, we have drawn our conclusions from the
weight of the evidence and the probabilities of the case.
With these explanations, we will proceed to state the material facts,'so far as respects the steamer Atlantic.
She left Buffalo between nine and ten o'clock in the evening
of the day preceding the disaster, having on board, in addition
to her freight, nearly five hundred passengers, of whom more
than one hundred were lost. At the time of her departure,
she was in every respect seaworthy, and was well manned and
appointed for the voyage, with a competent master and a sufficient and competent crew. Steamers, on leaving Buffalo for
Detroit, usually steer southwest by west; and the Atlantic,
following her accustomed route., pursued that general course
during the night., until she made Long Point light, on the
Canada shore, when the officer in charge of her deck changed
her course one-fourth of a point to the southward, in order to
give the light a wider berth. When abreast of that light, and
about two miles distant from it, the steamer resumed her former course, about southwest by west, and continued on hier
voyage, without any .other change, until the second mate, who
had charge of the deck, discovered two white lights threefourths of a point off her larboard bow, when he ordered the
wheelsman to port her helm, and the order was obeyed.
Nothing additional occurred during the voyage, of any importance in this investigation, up to the time those lights were
discovered by the second mate. His watch, which commenced
shortly after the steamer was outside, had not then closed, and
of course he was. properly in charge of-the deck. He testifies,
that at.first he saw only one light, and then another, and that
they appeared like glimmering stars, and at first view he was
unable to determine whether they were stars or the lights of a
vessel; but upon further observation he supposed they were
the lights of a sail'vessel, and accordingly gave the order to
port the helm. That order was given while the officer who
issued it was stinding in the pilot-houie, which waq situated
on the forward part of the hurricane deck, at the usual elevation, in steamers of that description, above the water-line of

SUPREME COURT.
Chamberlainet al. v. Ward et ai

the vessel. She was a first-class steamer, of ec;t hunJrei tons
the rate of sixburden, and was moving through the water
teen miles an hour, and the officerin charge of the deck, and
who gave the order to port the helm, was the only look-out
stationed on any part of the vessel; and it is not ,'etended that
either officer or seamen, other than the officer of the deck, had
been assigned to that duty during the voyage.
Two other persons, the wheelsman and a passenger, were in
the pilot-house with the second mate, both when he discovered
the lights and when he gave the order to port the helm; and
the evidence shows that he went there for a purpose connected
with his duty as officer of the.deck; .and he testifies that he
had not been inside more than two minutes when he first saw
the light. After having given the order to port the helm, he
ininediately left the position where he had been standing,.and
went on to the top of the pilot-house, and then he says the
signal lights of the Atlantic, which were properly displayed,
and were burning brightly, shone on to the approaching vessel, and enabled him to see that she was a steamer, and that
the two vessels were very close together. His own account of
what followed shows conclusively that the knowledge he then
for the first time obtained, as to the character of the approaching vessel, was too late to enable him to adopt the necessary
precautions to avoid the impending peril. On seeing the propeller, and ascertaining the danger of his situation, arising
from the closeness of her approach, he ordered the helm of the
steamer hard a-port, and, without waiting to know whether
the order was obeyed, put his hand on to the telegraph, with a
view to give the signal to stop; but perceiving that th - collision was almost certain, he omitted to signal, concluding that
the only chance of safety was to rely upon the velocity of the
steamer, and the operation of her helm under the order already
given, which, it seems, was promptly obeyed. Precautionary
measures could not then be effectually adopted, as the time
and opportunity to render them aailable had passed, and the
two vessels almost immediately came together, the propeller
striking the larboard side of the steamer near the forward gangway, crushing through the guard and hull of the steamer, and

DECEMBER TERIM, 1858.

561

Chamberlain et al. v. Ward et al.

otherwise damaging her, so that.before she had run a mile she
filled with wate'-and sunk in the lake. These facts are drawn
from the testimony of the witnesses who were on the deck of
the steamer or in her pilot-house, and are believed to be substantially correct, and to correspond with the events as they
occurred. They all concur in saying that they did not see any
signal lights on the propeller as she approached, and supposed,
she was a sail vessel till it was too late to stop the engine, and
affirm most confidently, that if good signal lights had been
shown, they would have seen them. Those shown by the'
steamer were seen by the mate of the propeller when the vessels'were three miles apart, and several witnesses testify that
such lights, if properly shown, as required by law, could be
seen dt the distance of four or five miles; and in view of the
evidence as to the state of the weather and the character of the
night, we have no doubt they might have been seen, if burning brightly, in ample time to have prevented the disaster. All
the witnesses agree that the wind was light, and the surface of
the lake smooth, and they generally admit that there was some
mist or haze on the water; but assert in the most positive terms
that it was starlight overhead, and no one pretends that it was
unusually dark. Good signal lights, under such circumstances,
if burning brightly, could readily be seen, notwithstanding the
haze on the water, at a sufficient distance to enable steamers
approaching each other to adopt every necessary precaution to
avoid a.collision.
Having stated the principal facts proved, as they appear to
the court, so far as respects the steamer, we will now proceed
to the examination of those of a corresponding character which
relate to the propeller. More difficulty attends this branch of
the inquiry, on account of the conflicting state of the testimony,
and the consequent uncertainty in which the facts are involved.
Some of the facts, however, are fully proved, and to those we
will first invite attention. As alleged in the answer, the propeller left Cleveland, on the day preceding the disaster, on her
downward trip from Chicago to Ogdensburgh, which was to
be reached through the Welland canal. No doubt is entertained that she was a good strong vessel, and there is nothing
VOL. xxi.

86

562

SUPREME COURT.
Chamberlain el al. v. Ward et al.

in the testimony to call in question either the competency of
her master or the sufficiency of her crew. It appears, by the
testimony of her master, that she left Cleveland about noon,
and ran down opposite Grand river by daylight; that after arriving there she steered, for about an hour, east-northeast, and
then turned to northeast by east till the vessels came together.
This last statement, however, is obviously mere hearsay, as the
watch of the mate commenced at twelve o'clock at night, and
be continued in charge of the deck until half past two in the
morning, when the collision occurred; and the master admits,
what it is important to observe, that it was usual when they
got down off Long Point, and found themselves out of the way,
"to steer accordingly," by which we understand him to mean
that it was usual, when they got down there, to regulate the
course of the propeller with respect to the well-known position
of Long Point, and perhaps with a view to make that light, in
the further progress of the voyage, which is proved to be the
most prominent light on the route. At twelve o'clock the
*mate took charge of the decks and he says he kept the propeller on a course of east-northeast until two o'clock, and then
hauled her off from ihe southern shore, to northeast by east,
and that soon after he saw a light two points or two and a half
points off her starboard bow. Could this statement of the
mate, in regard to the course of the propeller, be regarded as
correct, we should be obliged to acquit both vessels, upon the
ground that the alleged collision never took place, as obviously
it could not, assuming that the course of the steamer has been
correctly ascertained. His testimony in this particular, therefore, must be considered as founded in mistake; and it is proper
to remark that he is contradicted in so many particulars, and
'is proved to have made so many contradictory statements in
respect to the circumstances of the collision, that we deem it
unsafe to give full credence to his statements, especially in regard to such matters in controversy as obviously involve the
vindication of his own conduct in the management of the vessel. Rejecting his statement as incredible, becanse inconsistent with the admitted and well-established facts in the case,
we are left without any satisfactory testimony in the record

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

563

Chamberlain et al.v. Ward e al

from which the precise course of the propeller, for oiie or two
hours before the collision, can be ascertained with anyreasonable degree of certainty.
Looking at the other facts and circumstances in the case,
there is ifiuch reason to conclude that the inexperience and
ignorance of the mate led him, in the early part of his watch,
to adopt a route somewhat nearer to the southern shore than
had. been usual, until he got down off Long Point; and findig, on arriving there, that he was too far to the southward,
he then changed the course of the propeller to the one she was
pursuing when the lights of the steamer were first discovered;
and this view of the case finds support in the fact pr6ved by
the master, that it was usual to correct any irregularity in the
course at that stage of the voyage. That the propeller was
south of the Atlantic when her mate discovered the signal
lights of the latter vessel, is proved beyond all reasonable
doubt, and is in effect admitted by the mate in that part of his
testimony where he says that the bearing of her lights, when
he first saw them, was two or two and a half points off the
starboard bow of the propeller. Her.course then was in an
eastely direction, and it is equally well established that hei
white lights were first seen on the steamer,, whose course was
westerly off her larboard bow. Assuming these two facts to be
true, of which there is no doubt whatever, and it necessarily
follows that the propeller was south of the Atlantic, and such,
its believed, was the real fact. Both vessels were injured by
the collision, and additional light is shed upon this inquiry by
the evidence in the case as to the localities in the respective
vessels where the damage was received. All, or nearly all, the
damage received by the propeller was in her starboard bow,
near the stem, and it was the larboard side of the steamer,
near the forward gangway, that was so crushed and broken in
as to cause her to fill with water and sink. These circumstances, taken in connection with the well-established fact that
the mate of the propeller, who had charge of her deck, persistently maintained that he had a right to keep his cotirse, and
that it was the duty of the steamer to adopt the necessary precautions to keep out of the way, furnish strong grounds of
-

SUPREME COURT.
C amberlain et al. v. Ward et al.

presumption that no considerable change was made by the
propeller until the peril was impending and the collision inevitable. Any change of course, if made under such circumstances, whether to the starboard or larboard, would not constitute a compliance with the rules of navigation, because it
would be too late to accomplish the purpose for which precautions are enjoined.
Much discussion also took place at the bar upon the question whether the propeller, at the time of the collision, had
proper signal lights displayed, as required by law. On that
point, the evidence shows that her signal lights were seasonably set and properly displayed at the usual hour, and were
burning brightly throughout the early part of the night; and
no doubt is entertained that they continued to burn, so as to
answer the purpose for which they are required, till after twelve
o'clock, when the watch of the mate commenced. It is, however, clearly proved that it was usual and necessary to clean
and trim them, and perhaps supply them with additional oil,
about the middle of the night; and the steward, who was assigned to that service, and whose duty it was to see that it was
properly performed, testifies that her signal lights were neglected in that particular on the night of the collision, and, consequently, were burning so di mly when it occurred, that they
could not be seen at a distance beyond twice the leiig-th of the
vessel; and-in confirmation of-this statement, :he says that,
shortly after the vessels -came in contact, he took down the
signal lights of the. propeller,, by order of the master, and
brushed off the crust from the wicks and trimmed them, and
testifies positively that they -were dim:
1. Our conclusions upo,- this state of the evidence will now
be briefly stated, commencing with -the propeller; and'we find
that 'she was in fault, because she did not have a competent
and skilful officer in charge of her deck, and because it appear,
that his want of qualifications and unskilfulness contributed to
the collision. Owners of vessels, and especially those who own
and employ steamships, whether propellers or side-wheel
steamers, must see to it that the master and other officers intrusted with their control and management are skilful and-

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

565

Chamberlainet al. v. Ward et al.

competent to the discharge of their duties, as, in case of a
disaster like the present, both the owners and the vessel are
responsible for their acts, and must answer for the consequences of their want of skill and negligence; and this remark
is just asapplicable to the under officers, whether the mate o
second mate, as to the master,'during all the time they have
charg ' of the deck. That the mate in this case was substantially without experience in navigating steamers, and utterly
destitute of the requisite information to fit him to determine
the proper courses of the voyage, are facts so fully proved that
it is difficult to regard them as the proper subjects of dispute;
andwhat is more, the master knew his unfitness when hd
started on the voyage, and stated, before the vessel left Cleveland, to the effect that he was afraid that he was going to be
sick, and that he had no confidence in the mate.. Some of the
owners also distrusted his fitness when they employed him,
and made an effort to engage another person in his stead; and
one of them, after having heard of the disaster, expressed his
regret that the person to whom he first applied had not taken
his place. We forbear to pursue this branch of the subject,
only remarking, in addition to what has already been stated,
that the evidence to establish his unfitness and incompetency
for the place is full and conclusive.
2. The propeller is also in fault because she did not have signal lights properly displayed, as required bylaw; and this conclusion is intended to apply to the entire period after the steamer
came in sight, the weight of the testimony tending strongly to
show that they were little better than if they had been actually
extinguished. At all events, it is satisfactorily shown that they
were burning so dimly as not to fulfil the purpose and object
for which they are required. There is some conflict in the
statements of the witnesses on this jpoint; but the testimony
of the steward, whose duty it was to repair them, and who, by
the command of the master, attended to the service shortly
after the collision, appears to be entitled to belief, and when
considered in connection with the positive affirmations of the
witnesses for the libellants, that they looked for signal lights
on the propeller as she approached, and saw none, seems to be

SUPREME COURT.
Chamberlainet al. v. Mard et al.

decisive of the question. Signal lights are required by the act
of Congress, in order that they may be seen by an approaching
vessel in season to enable those in charge of her to ascertain
and adopt the necessary precautions to prevent a collision with
the vessel whose lights are so displayed; and when they are
extinguished, or burning so dimly as not to fulfil the purpose
and object for which they are required, they do not and cannot
constitute a compliance with the act of Congress.
3. The propeller is also in fault, for the reason that the officer in charge of her deck neglected -seasonably and effectually
to change the course of the vessel, and persistently kept her
on her course after he discovered the signal lights of the
steamer, rendering it highly probable that it was this error, no
less than the former, which contributed to the collision.
Many circumstances tend to show that if he had adopted the
usual precaution the disaster might have been avoided. Comment upon this proposition is unnecessary, as in its legal aspect it imputes to the propeller a palpable iolation of the
rules of navigation, and the theory of fact on which it rests is
substantially supported by the testimony of all the witnesses
on both vessels, and by no one more fully than by the mate
of the propeller, who had charge of her deck. He admits that
he saw the signal light of the steamer when she was three
miles distant, and he expressly states that the propeller was
kept precisely on her course, until he saw that the steamer
was very near, and then he says he gave the signals to stop
and back; and at the same time that he signalled to stop, he
told the man at the wheel to put the helm hard a-starboard,
and he says the order was obeyed.
Full damages are claimed by the libellants, not only on the
ground that the evidence shows that the steamer was without
fault, but upon the further ground that the propeller, under
the circumstances of this case, is made liable by the fifth section of the act of the 3d of March, 1849, for all the loss or
damage which the steamer sustained. A brief reference, however, to the provision referred to, will show that the construction cannot be supported. Steamboats and propellers navigating the lakes are required by that section to carry a trian-

DECEMBER TERM, 1858
Chamberlainet al. v. Ward et al.

gular light, shaded green on the starboard side, and red on the
larboard side, with reflectors, and to be of a size to insure a
good and sufficient light; and the owners of such vessels
neglecting to comply with the regulation are declared liable to
the injured party for all loss or damage resulting from such
neglect It is insisted by the libellants that the owners of the
propeller, inasmuch as she did not show good and sufficient
signal lights, are liable to them in this case, under a proper
construction of that provision, for all the damage occasioned
to the steamer by the cbllision. Such is not the language of
the section, and we think the construction contended for
would be both unwarranted and unreasonable. Owners of the
vessels named in that section are made liable for the consequences resulting from their own acts, or from the acts of those
intrusted: with'the control and management of their own vessel, and not for any damage resulting from the misconduct,
incompetency, or negligence, of the master or owners of the
other vessel. They are made liable for their 6wn neglect, and
not for the neglect of the other party. Failure to comply with
the re.gulation, in case a collision ensues, is declared to be a
fault, and the offending party is made responsible for all loss
or damage resulting from the neglect; but it is not declared by
that section, or by any other rule of admiralty law. in the jurisprudence of the United States, that the neglect to show signal
lights, on the part of one vessel, discharges the other, as they
approach, from the obligation to adopt all reasonable and
practicable precautions to prevent a collision. Absence of signal lights in cases falling within the act of Congress renders
the vessel liable to the extent already mentioned, but it does
not confer any right upon the other vessel to disregard or violate the rules of navigation, or to neglect any reasonable and
practicable precaution to avoid a collision, which the circumstances afford the means and opportunity to adopt. Steamers
displaying proper signal lights are in that respect without
fault, but they have other duties to perform to prevent collisions, besides complying with that requirement, and their obligation to perform such other duties remains unaffected by anything contained in the provision under consideration. As an

SUPREME COURT.
Clhamberlainet al. v. Ward et al.

illustration of our views upon the subject, we will suppose the
case of two steamers approaching on intersecting lines. They
are required by the act of Congress to show signal lights, in
order that each may be seen by the other in time to adopt reasonable and necessary precautions to prevent a disaster like
the present; and if one has such lights, and the other has not,
yet if the one having such lights actually sees the other vessel
as she approaches, in ample season to avoid the collision, and
neglects to take any proper precaution to prevent it, and it
ensues, it cannot be said in such a case that all the loss or
damage resulted from the neglect of the vessel without such
lights, as the collision might have been prevented; and, but
for the negligence or perverseness of those in charge of the
vessel showing lights, would never have occurred. We are
not prepared to admit that a fair construction of the section
referred to would absolve a party, under such circumstances,
from pecuniary responsibility. What the judgment of the
court would be in the case supposed it is not necessary to decide, and we only advert to it as an illustration to show that
+he constructioA of the act of Congress contended for cannot
be sustained. All we mean to decide is, that the neglect of
the propeller to show signal lights did not vary the obligations
of the Atlantic to observe the rules of navigation, and to adopt
all such reasonable and necessary precautions to prevent the

collision, as the circumstances in which she was placed gave
her the opportunity to employ.
1. The Atlantic is also chargeable with fault, because the
officer in charge of her deck did not exercise proper vigilance
to ascertain the character of the approaching vessel after he
discovered the white lights, which subsequently proved to be
the white lights of the propeller. His excuse, that he supposed she was a sailing vessel, under the circumstances of the
case, as shown in the evidence, is not satisfactory. When he
first dicovered those lights, the two vessels were at least a
mile apart; and if it be true, as he states, that they appeared
like glimmering stars, we are satisfied, from the evidence, thaf
the distance must have been much greater, as is evident from
the character of the night, and from the fact, which is fully

.DECEMBER TERM, 1858

569

Chamberain et al. v. Ward et al

proved, that the red-light 6f the steamer was seen on the proDeller at the distance of three miles. Those white lights,
though not the signal lights required by the act of, Congress,
Were nevertheless sufficient to apprize the officer on the deck
of the steamer that a vessel of -some sort was approaching; and"
if he had performed his duty, the night being calm and the.
wind light, he might have seasonably ascertained- that it was
a propeller. They were large globe lamps, such as are usually
shown by sail vessels, and were suspended in a similar manner,
and the weight of the testimony clearly shows that they were
burning brightly; and if so, they would hardly appear like
glimmering stars at the distance of a mile, on a smooth sea,
.vhenat the same time the usual red lights carried by steamers
were plainly visible at three times that distance. Two other
persons were in the pilot-house with the second mate when he
discovered those white lights, one of whom was a master mari.
ner; and although he says they did not hold any conversation,
there is much reason to conclude that his estimate of the time
he remained there is somewhat short of the fact. Master mariners, as well as other seafaring men, are very apt to converse
when they meet on the theatre of their favorite pursuit; and
the statement that they remained together in the pilot-house,
even for two minutes, without speaking, needs confirmation.
2. In the second place, the Atlantic is chargeable with fault,
because the officer of her deck did not seasonably and effectually change the course of the vessel, or slow or stop her engine,
so as to avoid a collision, after he discovered the white lights
of the approaching vessel. Whether his neglect to adopt those
precautions, or some one of them, arose from inattention or rashness, is immaterial, as, in either event, it was a culpable omission of duty, plainly required by the rules of navigation in that
emergency, and one which the dictate of common prudence, as
well as a proper regard for the safety of his passengers, should
have prompted him to perform; and the owners of the steamer
must' answer for the consequences of his negligence. His first
order, to port the helm, was not designed to change the course
of the vessel to any considerable extent, and only had the effect to open the light of the other v'essel -halfa point.

SUPREME COURT.
Chamberlainet al. v. Ward et al

This is admitted, and so is the more important fact that no
other change of course was made until he gave the order hard
a-port, which his owh testimony shows was at the instant of
collision, and not until all reasonable expectation of preventing
it was gone. Nothing additional was done to avert the disaster; and the officer of the deck admits that the speed of the
steamer was not slackened at any time throughout the entire
period that elapsed after he saw the white lights of the approaching vessel.
On this ground, we think the steamer was clearly in fault,
and that her owners are responsible for the consequences of the
negligence or mismanagement of the officer in charge of the
deck.
3. In the third place, the Atlantic was in fault, because she
did not have a vigilant and sufficient look-out. No person,
either officer or seaman, was assigned to that duty, except the
second mate, who also had charge of the deck and the control
and management of the vessel. According to his testimony,
the officer of the deck was not expected to occupy any one
particular place on the vessel; but was sometimes on the top
of the promenade deck, either on the larboard or starboard
side of the vessel-sometimes in the pilot-house, on the hurricane deck-and sometimes on the top of the pilot-house; and,
in accordance with this practice, the wheelsman of his watch,
who was called by the libellants, testifies that he saw him
round on the deck, attending to his duties, during all the time
he was at the wheel. Steamers navigating in the thoroughfares
of commerce mfist have constant and vigilant look-outs stationed in proper places on the vessel, and charged with the duty
for whi h look-outs are required, and they must be actually employed in the performance of the duty to which they are as.signed. To constitute a compliance with the requirements of
law, they must be persons of suitable experience, properly
stationed on the vessel, and actually and vigilantly employed
in the performance of that duty; and for a failure in either
of those particulars, the vessel and her owners are responsible.
Look-outs stationed in posifions where the view forward or
on the side to which they are assigned is obstructed, either by

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

571

Chamberkin dt aZ. v. Ward et a?.

the lights, rigging, or spars of the vessel, do not constitute a
compliace with the requirement of the law; and, in general,
elevated portions, such as the hurricane deck, are not so favorable situations as those more usually selected on the forward
deck, nearer the stem. Persons stationed on the forward deck
are less likely to- overlook small vessels, deeply laden, and
more readily ascertain their exact course and movement.
Ocean steamers usually have two look-outs in addition to the
officer of the deck, and in general they are stationed one on
the larboard and the other on the starboard side of the vessel,
as far forward as possible, and during the time they are so engaged they have no other duties to perform; and no reason is
perceived why any less precaution should be taken by firstclass steamers on the lakes. Their speed is quite as great, and
the navigation is no less exposed to the dangers arising from
the prevalence of mist and fog, or from the ordinary darkness
of the night; and the owners of vessels navigating on those
waters are under the same obligations to provide for the safety
and security of life and property as attaches to those who are
engaged in navigating the seas.
Apply these principles to the present case, and it is obvious
that the officer in charge of the Atlantic was not a sufficient
He stood the watch of the master, who was below;
1 jok-out.
and, as the officer of the watch, he had the charge of the deck
and the control and management of the vessel; and in the midst
of his varied duties it is scarcely possible that he could give
his undivided attention to the special duty required of look-outs.
Not long before the white lights of the approaching vessel
were discovered, he had occasion to go into the pilot-house, to
look at the compass; and there is much ground to presume
that the disaster is more attributable to that circumstance than
any other in the case, except the absence of proper signal
lights on the propeller.
We are of the opinion that it is a case of mutual fault, and
that the decree of the Circuit Court, apportioning the damages,
was correct.
The decree of the Circuit Court, therefore, is affirmed,
without costs.

SUPREME COURT.
Ward et al. v. Chamberlainet al.

Mr. Justice DANIEL and Mr. Justice GRIER dissented.
Mr. Justice DANIEL:
In the case of the Atlantic and the Ogdensburgh, it is my
opinion that the admiralty powers of the United States courts
do not embrace such a case.

EBER

B. WARD AND STEPHEN CLEMENT, SURVIVORS OF SAMUEL

WARD, DECEASED, APPELLANTS, V. PHILO CHAMBERLAIN AND
JOHN H.

CRAWFORD, CLAIMANTS OF THE PROPELLER OGDENS-

BURGH.

Where a libel was filed by the owners of a steamer against the owners of a propeller for a collision, and there was an agreement between the parties in the
court below, that the answer of the respondents should operate as a cross-libel,
the mode of proceeding does not meet the approval of this court and ought not
to be drawn into precedent. The respondents should file theircross-libel, take
out process, and have it served in the usual way.
The decision in the preceding case again affirmed.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the southern district of Ohio.
It was in fact a cross-appeal in the preceding case, although
there was no cross-libel filed. Being a branch of same case, it
was argued by the same counsel.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal in admiralty from a decree of the Circuit
Court of the United States for the southern district of Ohio.
The appellants in this suit were the libellants in the case of
Chamberlain et al. v. Ward et al., decided at the present term,
and the questions to be determined have respect to the same
subject-matter which was in controversy in that case, and come
before the court upon the same pleadings and testimony. In
that case, Ward et al., as owners of the steamer Atlantic, filed
their libel in the District Court against Chamberlain et al., as

