DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

223

Campbell e al. v. Boyreau.

-

without an unfriendly intention; and with ecual reason might.
it be alleged or imputed where the intention was amicable,
I give the concluding reasons, ascribed to his .Lordship for
his decision. They are as follows:
"I may mention, that corporations aggregate are now so
common, that I believe that a public journal is conducted by
a corporation aggregate limited. Therefore, it *seems to us,
that for what is done by the authority of a corporation aggregate,'that a corporation aggregate ought, as such, to be liable
as well er~hps as the individuals. Therefore, we think there
ought to be judgment forthe plaintiffs."
The connection between'the number of aggregate corporations and their capacities.or liabilities, and the dependence in
any degree of the one upon the other, I leave to those who
have been favored with greatef perspicacity than has been given
to me.- I am wholly unable to perceive them.
In fine, with due respect for others, and with becoming diffidence of my~elA I am constrained to say, of the opinion in
the case of Whitfield v.-The Southeastern Railway Company,
as It has been brought to the view of this court, that In its
arguments and conclusions it is confused and obscure; and is
incongruous and contradictory, both in its reasoning and its
conclusions. In the line of English adjudications it presents
itself as solitary and eccentric; and in opposition to the most
inveterate, the clearest, and reiterated distinctions announced
by the sages of the law-distinctions having their foundation
in reason and in the essential character of the subjects to which
those distinctions have been applied. I cannot yield to that
opinion my assent. I think, therefore, that for either of the
objections before assigned there should te added to the -reversal of the judgment of the Circuit Court an order for a dismission of the suit.
WILLiAM CAMPBELL. AND TmIRTY-SEVEN OTHERS, PLAINTIFFS IN
E~IOR, V. CLEMENT BoYREAU.
This cQurt has heretofore decided, in several cases,. that, in ordei th bring the
questions of lam; before this*court by writ of error the fact. must be fouud in,

224

SUPREME COURT.
Campbell et al. v. .Boyreau.

the court below by a jury, by a general or special verdict, or must he agreed
upon in a case stated.
And also, that where the parties agree that the court shall decide questions
both of law and fact, none of the questions decided, either of fact or law, can
be reviewed by this court on a writ of error.
The practice in Louisiana is an exception to this general rule, as that practice is
sanctioned by the act of Congress which requires the courts of the United
States to conform t6 the practice of the State courts.

Tins case -was brought up by writ of error from the Cir6uit Court of the United States for the northern district of
California,
The case having been decided by this court upon a point of
practice, it is necessary to state only so much of it as to show
how the point of practice arose.
It was a suit in the nature of an ejectment, brought by Boyreau to recover all the undivided half of an undivided eighteenth
part of that certain tract of land; rancho, or farm, known as the
"Rancho San Leandro," situate in the county of Alameda, State
aforesaid, bounded as follows: on the north by the San Leandro creek,- on the west by the bay of San Francisco; on the
south by the San Lorenzo creek; and on the east by a line
commencing on the southern bank of the San Leandro creek,
at a point on said bank, from whence a line bearing south, 29
degrees east, will strike the eastern bank of a lagoon, situated
about six or seven chains south of said creek, thence running
dii said line about two hundred and sixty-two (262) chains,
parallel with a ridge of hills running from the San Leandro
creek to the.San Lorenzo creek, at a point at the base of the
foot hills on the said creek.
Upon the trial, the-whole case was submitted to the court,
a jury beipg expressly waived by agreement of parties; and
the evidence and arguments of counsel being heard, the court
proceeded to find a long history of.facts, which is set forth in
-therecord. ' The copy of the grant offered in evidence excluded.
land on the cast occupied by the Indians, and the court, in its
finding, ran the east line in such a way as to exclide two of
the defendants, who were pronounced-not guilty. All the evi

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.
CaipbeUl etat. v. Boyreau.

dence necessary for the court to make up its opinion upon this
point, and also upon other facts in the case, would seem to
belong more appropriately to a jury. The ,second bill of exceptions contained the elaborate opinion of the court, in which.
questions of fact and questions of law were all decided. ,
The case was argued for the defendant in error in this court
by Mr.Brent and Mr. Crittenden, who, upon the point in question, contended that the finding by the court of the facts was
as binding on the plaintiffs in error as if the facts were stated
in a special verdict.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action of ejectment (although the pleadings are
not in the form prescribed by the common law) to recover a
tract of land called San Leandro, situated in California. It was
brought in the Circuit Court of the United States for that district. The parties agreed to waive a trial of the facts by a jury,
and that the facts as well as the law should be.decided by the
court, upon the evidence adduced by the parties.
In pursuance of this agreement, evidence was offered on
both sides; and the court proceeded to decide the facts in dispute, and then proceeded to decide the questions of law arising
on the facts so found by the court; and finally gave judgment
against the plaintiffs in error, who were defendants in the
court below. And this writ of error is brought to revise that
judgment.
It appeais by the transcript that several exceptions to the
opinion of the court were taken at the trial by the plaintiffs in
errr-some to the admissibility of evidence, and others to the
construction and legal effect which the court gave to certain
instruments of writing. But it is unnecessary to state them
particularly; for it has been repeatedly decided by this court,
that, in the mode of proceeding which the parties have seen
propet to adopt, 'none of the questions, whether of fact or of.
law, decided by the court below, can be re-examined and revised in this court upon a writ of errior.
It will be sufficient, in order to show the grounds upon whie,
VOL. XXI.

15

226

SUPREME COURT.
Campbell et aZ. v. Boyreau.

this doctrine has been maintained, and how firmly it has
been settled in this court, to refer to two or three recent cases,
without enumerating the various decisions previously made,
which maintain the same principles. The point was directly
decided in Gould and others v. Frontin, 18 How., 135; which,
like the presefit, was a case from California, where a court of
the United States had adopted the same mode of proceeding
with that followed in the present instance. And the decision
in that case was again reaffirmed in the case of Suydam v. Williamson and others, 20 How., 432; and again in the case of
Kelsey and others v. Forsyth, decided at the present term.
Indeed, under the acts of Congress establishing and organizing the courts of the United States, it is clear that the decision could not be otherwise; for, so far as questions of law are
concerned, they are regulated in their modes of proceeding according to the rules and principles of the common law, with
the. single exception of the courts in the State of Louisiana, of
which we shall presently speak. - And by the established and
familiar rules and principles which govern common-law proceedings, no question of the law can be reviewed and re-examined in an appellate court upon writ of error, (except only
where it arises upon the process, pleadings, or judgment, in
the cause,) unless the facts are found by a jury, by a general
or special verdict, or are admitted by the parties, upon a case
stated in the nature of a special verdict stating the facts, and
referring the questions of law to the court.
The finding of issues in fact by the court upon the evidence
is altogether unknown to a-common-law court, and cannot be
-ecognised as a judicial act. Such questions are exclusively
within the province of the jury; and if, by agreement of parties, the questions of fact in dispute are submitted for decision
to the judge upon the evidence, he does not 6xercise judicial
authority in deciding, but acts rather in the character of an
arbitrator. And this court, therefore, cannot regard the facts
so found as judicially determined in the court below; nor examine the questions of law, as if those facts had been conclusively determined by a jury or settled by the admission of the
parties. Nor can any exception be taken to an opinion of the

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.
Campbell et al. v. Bojreau.

court upon the admission or rejection of testimony, or upon.
any other question of law which may grow out of the evidence,
unless a jury was actually impanelled, and the exception reserved while they were still at the bar. The statute which

gives the exception in a trial at common law gives it only in
such cases. And as this court cannot regard the facts found
by the judge as having beenjudicially determined in ihe court
below, there are no facts before us upon.which questiois of
law may legally and judicially have arisen in the inferior
court, and no questions, therefore, open to our revision as an
appellate tribunal.. Consequently, as the Circuit Court had
Jurisdiction of the subject-matter and the parties, and there is
no question of law or fact open to our re-examination, its judgment must be presurined to be right, and on that ground only
affirmed.
The cases referred to in the argument; which wete brought
up by writs of error to a Circuit Court of Louisiana, do not
apply to this case. The act of Congress of May 26, 182.4, (4
Stat., 62,) adopted the practice of the State courts in the courts
of the United States. And a writ of error to a Circuit Court
of that State, therefore, is governed by different principles
from, a like writ to the Cirtuit Court of any other State. And
as, by the laws of Louisiana, the facts, by consent of parties,
may be tried and found by the court without the intervention
of a jury, this court is bound, upon a writ of error, to regard
them as judicially determined, and treat them as if they had
been found by the special verdict; and the questions of law
which arise on them are consequently open to the revision of
this cour-t.
But the practice in relation to the decisions in that State is
an excepti6n to the general rules and principles which regulate..
the proceedings of the courts of the United. States; nor can
the laws or the practice .of any other State authorize a proceeding.in the courts of the United States different from that
which -was established by the acts of 1789 and. 1803, and the
subsequent laws carrying out the same principles and modes
of proceeding.
.Upon the grounds above stated, the judgipent in this case

SUPREME COURT.
Lessee of French and Wife v. Spencer et at.

must be affirmed. But it must at the same time be understood that this court express no opinion as to the facts or tbe
law as decided by.the Circuit Court, and that the whole case
is open to re-examination and revision here, if the questions
of fact or law should hereafter be brought legally before us,
and in a shape that would enable this court to exercise its appellate jurisdiction.

LESSEE OF WILLIAM

ROR, V. WILLIAM
ANNA A.

C. FRENCH
IH. SPENCER,

AND WIFE, PLAINTIFF IN ERJUN., JOSEPH SPENCER, AND

SPENCER.

By an act of Congress passed in 1816, (3 Stat. at L., 256,) a bounty in land was
given to those American citizens who were living in Canada at the time when
war was declared against Great Britain, in 1812, and who returned to the service of their country.
This act was not like other bounty-land acts, by which the Government undertook to locate the bounty land. Under the act first mentioned, the warrants
were delivered to the owners to be located by them, and were therefore assignable after an entry was made inthe Land Office.
The deed of conveyance in question was sufficient to pass the interest of the
grantor.

A patent issued to the original beneficiary, who had previously sold his right,
enured to the benefit of the purchaser, and related back to the date of the entry; and the heir of the grantor in such a deed is estopped from setting up a
legal title under the patent.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of Indiana.
It was an ejectment brought by French'and wife, to recover
an undivided- half of three hundred and twenty acres of land
in the county ofoVigo, in Indiana.
Upon the trial, the evidence offered by the plaintiff was as
follows:
1. Evidence -that one Silas Fosgit, who had been a Canadian
volunteer in the army of the United -States in the last war with
Great Britain, had died between the 28t6 of June, 1816, and
the 29th day of June, 1823, and that his only heirs at law were
Minerva French, (.wife of said William C. French,) residing in
the State of Michigan, and one Artina Fosgit..

