SUPREME COURT.
.3fason v. Gamble el al.

court, where the law does not give it. And, without an appeal
taken in the District Court, this court has no jurisdiction, and
the consent of parties cannot cure the defect. The motion is
therefore overruled.
But if the plaintiff in error desires to supplv the omission,
and take an appeal in-the District Court, and bring hia case
legally before us, he has leave, in order to save expense, to
withdraw the transcript now filed, and to use it upon his appeal, leaving a receipt for it with the-clerk of this court.

JOHN

T. MASON, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR,

V. JOSEPH

C. GAMBLE AND

DAVID GAMBLE.
The act of Congress passed on the 3d of May, 1844, (5 Stat. at L., 658,) authorizes a writ of error, at the instance of either party, upon a final judgment in a
Circuit Court in any civil action brought by the United States for the enforcement of the revenue laws, or for the collection of duties due or alleged to be
due, without regard to the sum or value in controversy.
But this law does not include a case where an action was brought against the
collector for the return of duties paid under protest, and where the recovery
was for aless sum than two thousand dollars.
Such a case must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

THIs case was brought up by writ of error from"the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of Maryland.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
A motion was made by Mr. Campbell to dismiss the writ of
error for want of jurisdiction, which was opposed by -Mr.Black,
(Attorney General.)
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
A motion has been made to dismiss this case for want of jurisdiction, upon the ground that the sum in dispute does not
exceed $2,000.
The case is this: The plaintiff in error is the collector of the
port of Baltimore, and, as such, demanded a certain amount of
duties on goods imported by the defeidants in error, which
they believed was greater than the amount imposed by law.

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

391"

Rickmond v. City of.MMtwauki,.

The duties demanded were paid under protest, and*this suit
was brought to recover back the amount alleged to be overpaid. At the trial, the jury, under the instruction of the court,
found a verdict in favor of the defendants in error for the sum
of $193.88, upon which a judgment was entered against the
collector; and this writ of error is brought on that judgment.
The act of Congress which is supposed to give jurisdiction
in cases of this description is the act of May 31st, 1844, (5
Stat., 658.) This act authorizes a writ of error, at the instance
of -either party, upon a final judgment in a Circuit Court in
any civil action brcught by the United States for the enforcement of the revenue laws, or for the collection of duties due or
alleged to be due, without regard to the sum or value in controversy. And it is true, that'the same reasons which induced
the Legislature to, give the writ of error in the cases mentioned in the law, apply with equal force to suits against a collector to recover back duties which he alleged to be due, and had
already collected. The questions are of the same character,
and the interests of the United States the same in either case.
And it is most probable that suits against the collecter were
omitted in the act of Congress by some oversight or accident.
But, however that may be, the writ of error is authorized
in those cases only in which the United States are plaintiffs in
the suit. The language of the law is too plain to admit of
doubt, and the words cannot by any reasonable or fair construction be extended to suits brought by the importer against
the collector; and as the sum or value in controversy does not
exceed $2,000, and the case is not provided for by the act of
Congressreferred to, the writ must be dismissed for want of
jurisdictio4 in this court.

DEAN IICHMOND, APPELLANT, V. THE CiTY oF MILWAUIME AND
FERDINAND KUEKH.
Alftr a case has been heard and dismissed for want of jurisdiction, because it
did not appear that the value of the property in'controversy exceeded two
thousand dollars, affidavits of its value come too late.

