546

SUPREME COURT.
Commissioners of Knox County, Indiana, v. Wallace.

to do so on certain conditions. Finding that the authority
might be made complete by a resolution, he would have a right
to infer the fact of a resolution authorizing that which, on the
face of the document, appeared to be legitimately done." (See
also 5 Ellis and Bl., p. 245, S. C., and 25 E. L. and Eq., p. 114,
Macle v. Sutherland.) The principle we think sound, and is
entirely applicable to the question before us.
A question was made upon the argument, that the suit could
not be maintained upon the coupons without the production
of the bonds to wvhich they had been attached. But the answer
is, that these coupons or warrants for the interest Were drawr
and executed in a form and mode for the very purpose of separating them from the bond, and thereby dispensing with the
necessity of its production at the time of the accruing of each
instalment of interest, and at the same time to furnish complete evidence of the payment of the interest to the makers of
the obligation.
Some other minor points were made in the case upon the
argument, which we have considered, but which it is not important should be particularly noticed. We are satisfied the
judgment below is right, and should be affirmed.
Mr. Justice DAN-EL dissenting.
In the case of the Knox County Commissioners v. Aspinwall
et al., it is my opinion, in the first place, that the Circuit Court
had not jurisdiction of the cause, one of the parties being a
corporation; and, secondly, I think that the comniissioners
being known to be a party, it was the duty of those who dealt
with them to ascertain the extent of their powers.

THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE COUNTY OF KNOx, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. DAVID C. WALLACE.
The decision of the court in the preceding case again affirmed.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of Indiana.

DECEM1BER TERM, 1858.Commissioners of Knox Conty, Tidiana,v. Wallace.

It was similar, in most of its aspects, to the preceding case.
In this case there was no notice whatever of the increase of
the stock made bythe board at their meeting on 26th February,
1849, and also it-was shown that less than a majority of the
whole vote of the county was polle.d.
It was argued by Mr. B. W. Thompson for the plaintiffs in
error, and Mr.M.Lean for the defendant.
Mr. Justice NELSOIN deliver6d the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of Indiana.
The suit was brought by Wallace against the board, upon
several 'coupons, for instalments of interest which had been
attached to certain bonds issued by the defendants, to the Ohio
and Mississippi R. R. Co. The coupons were owned by the
plainti, and had been duly preseiited for payment, which was
refused. The defendants plead the general issue, and six special pleas, to which there were replications, except the second
and sixth pleas, to which there were demurrers.
The court sustained the demurrers. There were afterwards
amendments and demurrers to pleadings not very intelligible
in the record, and seem not to have been relied on by either
party. The case was tried upon the general issue, and the
facts disclosed upon the trial were substantially the same, mutatis mutands, as those vhich were proved or admit'ted in the
previous case of Aspinwall and others against these same defendants. After the evidence was closqd, the defendants presenrtd ten prayers to the court, upon each of which instructions were given. It is unnecessary to go through them; the
questions involved have already been examined in the case'
above mentioned, and "tbe result there arrived at affirms the
judgment in this case.
Judgment affirmed.

Mr. Justice DANIEL dissented.

