SUPREME COURT.
.3fontgomery et aZ. v. Anderson et al.

JOSEPH E. MONTGOMERY ET AL., CLAIMANTS OF THE STEAMER
REPUBLIC, &C., APPELLANTS, v. JOHN J. ANDERSON ET AL.
Where the District Court of the United States, sitting in admiralty, decreed that
a sum of money was due, but the amount to be paid was dependent upon other
claims that might be established, this was not such a final decree as would
justify an appeal to the Circuit Court.
The Circuit Court, therefore, had no jurisdiction, and its judgment, affirming the
decree of the District Court, and remandingthe case to that court, was erroneous.
MIoreover, if it had jurisdiction, it was not authorized to remand the case to the
District Court. The appeal had carried up thd fund, and the Circuit Court
should have executed its own decree.
An agreement of counsel, filed in this court, stating that the whole fund had been
distributed, will not correct the error. This court has heretofore decided that
consent of counsel will not confer jurisdiction.
The decree of the Circuit Court must be reversed, and the case remanded to that
court, with directions to dismiss the case for want of jurisdiction.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States, sitting in admiralty, for the district of Missouri.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Polk for the appellants, and Xr. R ankit for the appellees.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellees in this case filed a petition in the District
Court of the United States for the eastern district of Missouri,
stating that they had, by the laws of Missouri, a lien on the
steamboat Republic for $2,000, which they had loaned to the
clerk of the boat to purchase supplies and necessaries, in order
to enable her to proceed on a voyage from St. Louis to N'ew
Orleans,; that the vessel, at the time the petition was filed, was
under seizure in the district, in a case of admiralty and maritimejurisdiction, and had been ordered by the court to be sold;
and the petitioners prayed that they might be permitted to in-.
tervene-for their interest, and paid out of the proceeds when
the steamboat was sold.
The appellants answered, stating that they were owners of

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.
Hontgomenj

387

et al. v. Anderson et al.

seven-eighths of the vessel, and denying that the money was
needed or used for supplies; and insisting that the boat is not
liable for it, and that it is not a lien by the laws of Missouri.
The petition was filed on the 3d of June, 1857, and the vessel, it appears, was sold by the marshal, upon the seizure mentioned in the petition, and the sale reported and the proceeds
paid into the registry of the court on the 23d of the same
month. The proceeds amounted to $26,250. Further proceedings were had on the petition of the appellees, and testimony taken; and on the 7th of September, in the same year,
the District Court decreed that the suih claimed by the petitioner was due, with interest and costs, and a lien on the Republic, and referred the matter to the commissioner of the
court to compute and report the amount due.
The commissioner accordirgly made his report, stating the
amount due, for principal and interest on the sum loaned, to
be $2,034. This report was confirmed by the court; aiid
thereupon the court passed a decree, adjudging that there was
due from the fund then in court, to the petitioners, the sum of
$2,034, and to bear interest from that day; but that, inasmuch
as some of the causes against the fRepublic had not then been
determined, and the fund in court might- not be sufficient to
satisfy all of the claims that might be established against the
vessel, no order for the payment of the money would be made
by the court until it should be further advised in the premises.
The present appellants thereupon prayed an appeal to the
Circuit Court for the district of Missouri, which was granted;
and further proceedings took place in the Circuit Court, and
further iestimony was taken. And, at the October term, 1857,
the decree of the District Court was affirmed, and the case remanded to the District Court to carry out this decree; and
from this decree the appellants prayed an appeal to this court.
This is substantially the case, as it appears on the transcript
from the Circuit Court. We do not now speak of the admi::sions filed here, which we shall presently notice. But, upon.'
the transcript itself, it appears that there was no final decree
in the District Court, upon which an" appeal would lie to the
Circuit Court. No final disposition of the fund in the registry.

SUPREME COURT.
Montgomery et al.v. Anderson et al.

Indeed, it was not final even as to the amount in controversy
between these parties; for the amount to be awarded to the
appellees was made to depend upon the amount of other claims
upon the fund, which were then depending before the District
Court. And, under the act of Congress, no appeal would lie
from the District to the Circuit Court until there was a final
decree upon the whole case-that is, not until all the claims
on the money in tho registry had been ascertained and adjust.
ed, and the whole amount of the proceeds of the sale of the
-Vessel distributed, by the decree, among the parties which the
District Court deemed to be entitled, according to their respective priorities and rights.
The Circuit Court, therefore, had no jurisdiction oflthe case,
as it came before them; and their judgment, affirming the decree, was erroneous on that ground. The appeal ought to have
been dismissed for want of jurisdiction. This-point was directly
decided in this court, in .the case of Mordecai and others v.
Lindsay and others, (19 How., 200.)
But if the appeal had been regularly before the Circuit Court,
it was not authorized to remand the case to the District Court,
to carry into execution its decisions. The appeal carries up
the res, or money in the registry, of the District Court, to the
Circuit Court; and when the rights of the parties. are adjudicated there, the court must carry into execution its own decree.
In order to cure these defects in the record, an agreement
has been filed in this court, in which they admit that the whole
fund has been finally disposed of by the Circuit Court among
the claimants, with the exception of the sum in controversy between these parties. And they move to amend the record here
according to this agreement.
But, in the case of Mordecai and others v. Lindsay and
others, above referred to, a similar motion was made to amend
the record here, upon a like agreement. But the court decided that, as the defect of jurisdiction in the Circuit Court ap.
peared upon the transcript, it could not be cured by an amendment in this court, because consent cannot give jurisdiction,
nor legalize jurisdiction exercised without the authority at law.
The rule laid down in that case nust .govern this.

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

889

Ba/ancev. Forsyth et-al.

The decree of the Circuit Court iust therefore be reversed,
and the case remande to the court, with directions to dismiss
the appeal for want of jurisdiction.,.The District Court can
then proceed to pass a final decree,-if that has not been already
done; and from that decree any party who may think himself
aggrieved may appeal to the Circuit Court, and from the final
decree of that court to this, where the sum in controversy is
large enough to give jurisdiction to the reipective courts upon
such appeals.
This view of the subject makes i unnecessary to examine
whether the amount in controversy between the parties in this
appeal is over $2,000; for their respective rights have not been
judicially decided upon in the Circuit Court, for want ofjurisiiction, as above stated, when it acted upon the-controversy.

CHARLES BALLANCE, APPELLANT, v. ROBERT FORSYTH, LUCIENE
DuMAIN, .AND ANTOINE R. Bouis.
The court again decides that consent of parties cannot give jurisdiction to this
court where the law d'es not giv it; but leave is granted to the paintiff in error to withdraw the transcript, and use it so as to bring his case legally before this court.

THIs was an appeal from the. Circuit Court of the United
States for the northern district of Ilhinois.
It was dismissed, and a motion made to reinstate it, under
the circumstances stated in the opinion of the. court.
Mr. Chief Justice T.NEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case was dismissed on the 20th of Decembe last, because it did not appear that an appeal had been taken in the
District Court. A motion has now been made to reinstate
the. case, and, in support of that motion, a written agreement,
signed by the counsel for the appellant and appellee, has been
filed, consenting to reinstate the case, to waive all irregularitiesi and to try the case on the merits.
But the consent of parties cannot give jurisdiction to this

