DECEMIBER TERM, 1858.

283

Hiwlv. 96it d al.

offered to bidders at the public sale, they would have beer.
purchased.- 2a. They were claimed as school lands, selected
for township nine, range eleven. 3d. The trustees for the
township took possession of them, and leased them out as"
early as 1834; and their tenant is yet-in possession, and here
sued. 4th. The endorsement, on the plat of the lots, of -the
word "school," indicates, to some extent, that they had been
selected by the proper authority. What weight this may have,
it will be proper to leave to the jury. 5th. That this township
had no school lands assigned to it, unless the lots referred to
were assigned.
These facts, with-others, were proper to be submitted to the
jury, from which they might have presumed that the lots had
been duly selected.
In the language of the Supreme Court of Ohio, in the case
of Coombs and Ewing v. Lane-"Facts presumed are as effectually established as facts proved, where no presumption is allowed." That was a suit for the possession of this same land,
and involved the same evidence*this case does, and presented
the same questions of law. But there, the cause was submitted
to the Circuit Court on the law and the facts, without the intervention of a jury; and the Supreme Court was appealed to in
order to reverse the opinion of the lower court, on a motion
for a new trial. The State courts dealt with both facts and
law; whereas, here, the jury must deal with the facts and presumptions, under the instructions of the court, as respects the
law.
We order the judgment of the Circuit Court to be reversed,
and remand the cause for another trial.

HENRY HILL, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. CALEB B. Smri

AND

OTHERS.
Where it appeared from the record that a party sold land to a'railroad company,
the price of which was paid in the stock of the company, guarantied by certain
persons to be at par after a named time, and suit was brought upon this written contract, the case does not appear to be open to a demurrer by the defend.
ants, and the judgment of the court below sustaining such a demurrer must be

SUPREME COURT.
Hill v. Smith et al.
reversed. It is an original contract, and, being declared on as such, the plaintiffs are entitled to judgment.

Tnis case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit Court of the United States for the district of Indiana.

It was an action brought upon the contract recited in the
opinion of the court, to which there was a general demurrer,
which was sustained by the Circuit Court.
Hill, who was the plaintiff, then brought the case up to this
court by a writ of error.
It was submitted on a printed argument by Mr. 0. -. Smith
for the plaintiff in error, no counsel appearing for the defendants.
Mr. Smith made the following points
First. That the Circuit Court erred in sustaining the demur
rer to thefirst and second counts, and each of them; to sustain
this position, we rely upon the positions above, and authorities
cited, to sustain the third,fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth
points.
Second. That the court erred in sustaining the demurrer to
the whole declaration, if there be one good count, or part good
of a divisible count.
1 Chitty, p. 665, Ed. 1855, notes c (8) and authorities.
Third. The guaranty set out in thefirst and second counts was
an original undertaking of the appellees, and is binding in law.
4 Maule and Seiw., 66; 8 East., 231.
1 Johns. R., 362; 1 Parsons on Con., 480.
2 Howard, 450; 12 East. R., 227.
Cowper R., 714; Chitty on Con., 80, 81.
1 Parsons on Con., 495.
6 E. C. L. R., 82; 41 E. C.L. R., 848.
1 How., 187; 10 Pet., 493.
Fourth. The whole contract set out in the first and second
counts being in writing, and founded upon a sufficient consideration, was obligatory upon the parties.
10 Moore R., 895: 8 Bing. R., 107.
8 Cush. R., 159; 15 Penn. St. R., 156.
Fifth. Suppose the undertaking of the appellees to be colo

DECEMCfBER TERM, 1858.

285

Hil v. ,Smi d ad.

lateral to a contract of the railroad company, the undertaking
or guaranty is valid in law, and binding on the appellants.
.2 How. R., 426; 7 Cranch R., 69.
10 Peters R., 482; 7 Peters R., 122.
10 Moore R., 395 ; 3 Bing. R., 3, 107.
14 Illinois R., 237; 15 Penn. St. R., 27.
2 Story on Con., p. 400, sec. 862, and authorities cited,
Ed. 1857.
17 Peters R., 161; 5 B. and Ad., 1109.
Mood. and Al. R., 394.
Sixth. Neither the railroad company nor their guarantors,
can. set up the illegality of their executed contract,'either at law
or in equity, without placing the parties in statu quo.
4 Blackf., 515; 5 Blackf., 441.
7 Blackf., 55; 8 Blackf., 409, 469.
Adams Equity, 191.
1 Story on Con., p. 601, sec. 497, note 2, Ed. 1857.
Hill on Trustees, p. 221, Ed. 1857.
Seventh. The third count sets out an original, independent
contract between the appellant and the appellees, founded upon'
a suffiient consideration, and the facts being admitted by the
general demurrer, raising no question as to the form, is valid
in law, and the demurrer to the whole declaration should have
been overruled.
1 Parsons on Con., 497, and-authorities.
37 E. . LR., 120; 2 McLean, 103.
3 McLean, 387; 1 Story on Con., p. 536, sec. 431.
1b., p. 544, sec. 551.
Eighth. The undertaking of the appellees is valid and binding, whether an action could be maintained against the railroad company or not.
1 Burr. R., 371; 1 B. and Aid., 297;- 15 E. 0. L. R., 47.
1 Stark. R., 14, 19;. 2 E. C. L. R., 16, 18.
Mr. Justice GRER delivered the opinion 6f the'court.
The plaintiff's demand is founded on the following contract,
dated August 17th, 1853, signed by defendants, and set forth
at length in the declaration:

SSUPREME COURT.
Hi

v. Smith et al.

"Whereas Henry Hill, of Delaware county, has proposed to
convey to the Cincinnati, Newcastle, and Michigan Railroad
Company a certain tract of land in Delaware county, contain
ing three hundred and nine acres, for the consideration of six
thousand one hundred dollars, to be paid in the capital stock
of said company, at par, on the condition that Caleb Smith and
other responsible persons will guaranty that the said stock
shall be worth par inthree years from the present date, and in
default thereof, that the company shall make it up to par; and
whereas the said Cincinnati, Newcastle, and Michigan Railroad Company have agreed by a resolution of their board of
directors to accept said proposition: Now, we, the undersigned, in consideration of the premises, hereby guaranty to the
said Henry Hill, that the said stock shall be worth par in thred
years from the date of this instrument; and if at the expiration of that date said stock shall not be worth par, we guaranty the said Henry Hill that the said Cincinnati, Newcastle,
and Michigan Railroad Company shall make up to him or pay
him whatever sum the said stock shall be worth less than par,
so as to make the said stock worth par to said Henry Hill at
that date."
The declaration is in proper form, and contains all the averments necessary to show a breach of this contract, and the
consequent liability of defendants.
There was a general demurrer to the declaration and judgment for the defendants.
As we have not been furnished with an argument on behalf
of defendants, we are at a loss to discover on what grounds it
is supposed that this judgment can be supported.
As the contract is in writing, signed by the parties to be
charged, it cannot be affected by the statute of frauds; and,
although the term "1guaranty" is usually applied to a c6l1ateral undertaking to pay the debt of another, yet when taken in
connection with the other terms of the instrument, this is clearly an original, independent contract. If it had been under
seal, the term "covenant" would have been the technical synonym for the word "guaranty" as here used.
It states that the defendant would not agree to sell his land

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

287

Ford v. William&.

in exchange for stock, except on, condition that defendants
should guaranty that the stock in three years would be worth
par, or should be made so by the corporation. For this consideration, defendants agree to make it so, or, in other words,
to pay the difference between the cash value of the stock on
that day and its nominal value.
On this condition and for this consideration, the plaintiff
agreed to, convey his land to the railroad company; and, on
the faith of defendants' undertaking, he has conveyed it, and
accepted, not monhey, but certain stock, which defendants have
agreed to make equal to money by a certain day. The declaration avers, that at the time specified the stock was wholly
worthless, and of- no, value, and the railroad company utterly
insolvent, and unable: to pay the difference; and that defendants, having fall notice of these facts, refuse to comply with
their contract.
There is no reason why this contract should be treated as
void because of anillegal or immoral consideration. Its conditions require no previous suit to be instituted against any
one as principal debtor. The declaration contains every necessary averment: a valid contract, a large consideration paid,
and a breach of the contract by defendants; all set forth in
proper and technical language.
The plaintiff is therefgre entitled to judgment on the demurrer, unless the court below, in their discretion,, shall permit the
defendants, on payment of costs, to withdraw their demurrer,
and plead some good defence in bar.
The judgment of the court'below is reversed, and record remitted for further proceedings.

BEN A=

FoBD, PLAINTIFF IN ElROR, V.- JomN S. AND HERMAN WILLIALMS.

by an agent the principal whom he represents may
Where a contract is .mde
maintain an action upon it in his own name, although the name of the principal was not disclosed at the time of mahlng the contract; and, although the

