SUPREME COURT.
Rie v. Minnesota and N_ar1weskn Rairoad Company.

Appeals to this court from the Circuit Courts of the United
States, and from District Courts exercising the jurisdiction of
Circuit Courts, are regulated by the art of 1808, ch. 40, where
not otherwise specially pfovided for by act of Congress. There
is no special provision in the act establishing the District Court
in Wisconsin which regulates appeals to this court, and consequentlj-hey are governed by the general law above referred
tp, and by that law no appeal will lie, unless the sum or value
in controversy exceeds $2,000, and that fact must be shown to
the court in order to give jurisdiction in the appeal.
Now, the matter in dispute in this case is the title to the lots
which have been sold by the municipal authorities for the nonpayment of the taxes. The taxes assessed were charged upon
the respective lots, and created no personal responsibility upon
the owner, the lots alone being liable for the payment. And
the only evidence or averment of their value is the statement
of the complainant in his bill that they were worth more than
five hundred dollars, and his complaint that more than two
hundred per cent. upon their value as mentioned in the books
of the corporation was charged upon them by the assessment,
and the proceedings of the city authorities under it. There is
nothing in the allegations of the parties or in the evidence to
show that the value of the lots in question exceeded two thousand dollars, nor anything from which it can be inferred.
The appeal must therefore be dismissed for want of jurisdiction in this court.

EDMUND RiCE, PLAINTIFF 'IN ERROR, V. THE MINNESOTA AND
NORTHWESTERN RAILROAD COMPANY.
Where a cxmmon-law case was dismissed at the last term for want of junsdiction, (the record showing that no final judgment was given in the court below,)
an affidavit setting forth that the final judgpnent was accidentally omitted from
the record, and the production of a correct record, are not sufficient to sustain
a motion to annul the order of dismissal, and remisate the case upon the
docket.
After the judgment of this court was passed upon the case, and the term was
closed, the function of the writ of error was over, and it cannot now be revived.
The diitinction pointed out between a common-law case and a case in admiralty.

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

83,

Rice v. .innesota and Notawesktrn RaiZroad Company.

Tins was a case which was brought before this court from
the Territory of Minnesota.
It was before the court at the preceding term, under the circumstances stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr 1everdy Johnson now moved to revoke the mandate and
annul the judgment of dismissal which was entered at the last
term.

The motion was as follows:
"This cause was on the calendar of the last term, No. 109.
It was then, after argument, dismissed for want ofjurisdiction,
upon the ground that the judgment below was not a final one,within the meaning of the act of Congress. A mandate was
issued to that effect by the clerk of this court, in due course,
but has not as yet been filed m the court below Since the
decision of this court, the clerk of the court below has transmitted to one of the counsel of the defendants in error an
amended transcript, by which it appears, as the fact was, that
the judgment below was a final one, and that the failure to
have had it appear in the first transcript was the error of the
clerk or his deputy, by whom that transcript was made up.
Under these circumstances, the undersigned, as counsel for the
defendants in error, moves the court to revoke the mandate and
annul the judgment of dismissal of the last term, and order
the case to stand on the calendar, as it would stand, at the
present term, if such judgment had not been rendered, but the
case had been continued. He makes this motion, because it
is Important to the interests of the defendants in error that the
case be decided at the earliest moment upon its merits, and
will, at the hearing of the motion, submit decisions of this
court in maintenance of this motion.

"REVERDY JOHNSON,
"Counsel for Defendants m Error"
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case was brought up, by a writ of error, directed to the
judges of the Supreme Court of the Territory of Minnesota,
.he writ being returnable to the last term of this court. The

SUPREME COURT.
Rire v. Munesota and N

worlthwen Railroad Company.

case was docketed and called for trial according to the rules
of the court; but, upon inspection of the transcript, it appeared
that there was no final judgment in the court below, and the
case was therefore dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
At a subsequent day in that term, a motion was made by the
plaintiff in error for a certiorari,upon affidavits filed, suggesting that there had been a final judgment in the Territorial
court, although it had not been correctly entered on the record. But the court were of opinion that the affidavits were
not sufficient to support the motion, and refused the certiorari.
A motion has been made at the present term to annul the
order of dismissal made at the last term, and to place the suit
on the calendar in the same order in which it would have stood
if it had not been dismissed, but continued over to the present
term. And in support of this motion, a transcript from the
Territorial court has again been presented, and this transcript
contains a final judgment of the Supreme Court of the Terntory. It is certified by the clerk of the District Court of the
United States, to whose custody the record and proceedings
in this case have been transferred, pursuant to an act of Congress, and this transcript, among other things, certifies that
an amended order of the Supreme Court of the Territory, reversing the judgment of the inferior Territorial court, and
ordering a judgment for defendants, and an amended judgment of the said court to the same effect was on file in his office,
transferred with the other proceedings in the case from the
Supreme Territorial Court.
But we think the motion to annul the judgment of the last
term, and reinstate the case, cannot be granted. The suit is a
common-law action for a trespass on real property, and the
judgment of the court below can be brought here-for revision
by writ of error only That writ was issued by the plaintiff in
error, returnable to the last term of this court; and it brought
the transcript before us at that term. It was judicially acted
on, and decided by this court. And when the term closed,
that decision was final so far as concerned the authority and
jurisdiction of this court under that writ. The writ was func.
tus oczo, and if the parties -desire to -bring the record of

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

85-

Kdsey d al. v. Forayt,.

the case again before this court it must be done by another
writ of error. The former wilt is not returnable to the.present
terX, and.cannot therefore, according to the principles whichgovern this common-law writ, brng the record before us.
The case of the Palmyra (12 Wheat., I) has been referred
to, where a motion similar to the present was granted*by the
court. And if that had been a case -at common law, we might
have felt ourselves bound to follow it, as establishing the law..
of tbas court. But it was a case in admiralty, where the power
and jurisdiction of an appellate court is much wider upon appeal, than: in a case at common law. For, in #n admiralty
case, you may in this court amend the pleadings, and take new.
evidence, so as -ineffect to make it a different case from that
'decided by the court below And the court might well, therefore, deal with the judgment and appeal of the inferior tribunal in, the same spirit. But the powers which an appellate
court may lawfully.exercise in -an admiralty -proceeding, are
altogether inadmissible in a common-law suit.
.The case in 3 Pet., 431, relates to cases and questions ofsa
ilifferent character from the one before us. In that case the
judgment of the court at the preceding term was amended.
'But the amendment was made to correct a clerical'error- in
this court and make the judgment conform tothat which the
court intended to pronounce. But -this is not a motion to
amend, but to reverse and annul the-judgment of the last term,
which was passed upon full consideration, with the case regularly and legally before us, as brought up by the writ of error.
-Werefer to these two cases because they have been relied
on in support of the motion. But, in the judgment of "the
court, they stand on very different principles; and the motion,
for the reasons- above stated, must be overruled.

JAMES .X]KELSEY- .ANDTHOIMAS

P HOTOHKISS, PLIINTMrS iNER-

ROR, v. ROBERT FORSYTH.

The agreement of parties cainnot authorme this court to revise a judgnent of an
inferior court in any other mode of proceeding than that winch the law pre.

scribeg, nor can 4he laws of a State, regulating the proceedings of its own

