DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

251

Bdcier et aZ. v. Lawrason.

"with foreign nations, and among the several States."

We

are speaking of that commerce which is completely internal,
and which does not extend to or affect other States, or foreign
nations.
We have at this term amended the 12th rule of the admiralty, so as to take from the District Courts the right of proceeding in rem against a domestic vessel for supplies and repairs which had been assumed upon the authority of a lien
given by State laws, it being conceded that no such lien existed according to the admiralty law, thereby correcting an
error which had its origin in this court in the case of the Gen.
Smith, (4 Wheat., 439,) applied and enforced in the case of
Peyroux and others v. Howard & Varion, (7 Peters, 324,) and
afterwards partially corrected in the case of the steamboat New
Orleans v. Phebus, (11 Peters, 175, 184.) In this last case, the
court refused to enforce a lien for the master's wages, though
it had been given by the local laws of the State of Louisiana,
the same as in the case of supplies and repairs of the vessel.
We have determined to leave all these liens depending upon
State laws, and not arising out of the maritime contract, to be
enforced by the State courts.
So in respect to the completely internal commerce of the
States, which is the subject of regulation by their municipal
laws; contracts growing out of it should be left to be dealt
with by its own tribunals.
For these reasons, we think the decree of the court below
should be reversed, and the cause remitted, with directions to
dismiss the libel.

Mr. Justice WAY1E dissented.

CHARLES BELCHER AND COMPANY, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V.
GEORGE C. LAWRASON, COLLECTOR OF THE PORT OF ifEW
ORLEANS.
The eighth section of the act of Congress, passed in 1846, (9 Stat. at L., 42,)
exacting a penal duty of twenty per cent. when the appraised value of goods
imported exceeds the invoiced value by ten per cent., does not include the case
of an entry by a manufacturer who has produced the article imported.

252

SUPREME COURT.
Bdclzer d al. v. Lawrason.

Nor did previous laws prior to the act of March 3,1857, (Session Laws, page 199,)
justify this penalty. The ]ast-mentioned law puts goods manufactured and
goods purchased upon the same footing-in this respect.
But by the act of 1842 (Stat. at L.) an addition of fifty per cent. to the duty is
laid upon goods imported -by a manufacturer, where the appraised value
exceeded the invoiced value by ten per cent.
The appraisal of the goods at the customs was properly made under the 17th section of the act of 1842, although imported and entered by the manufacturer.

THIs case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the eastern district of Louisiana.
It was an action brought by Belcher & Co. to recover back
from the collector $6,159.20, ivhich they alleged to have been
exacted as illegal duties, and which they had paid under protest.
The following was the statement of facts in the court below:
1. That the plaintiffs imported into New Orleans, from the
island of Cuba, the several cargoes of reboiled molasses, concentrated molasses, sugar-house molasses, cistern bottoms, and
cistern sugars, fully set forth in the petition;
2. That said importations were made on entries, from which
it appears that the importers were the minufacturers of the
goods imported, and not purchasers thereof in the market.
8. That. upon the apprasem-ent of-the merchandise so imported as aforesaid, the value thereof-was fixed by the appraisers at a sum exceeding the invoice value by-more-than ten per
cent., and that no appeal from this appraisement was made by
the importers to merchant appraisers.
4. That the defendant thereupon exacted from the plaintiffi
a penal duty of twenty per centum on the apprkised value of
the merchandise imported, and that said penal duty, so levied
as aforesaid, amounted to the sum of $6,159.20.
5. That said penal duty was paid under protest, as shown
by the protests filed, which are made part of this statement of
facts. .
Upon this statement of facts, the Circuit Court decided that
the said merchandise was not legally subject to a penal duty of
twenty per cent. on the appraised value aforesaid, but was legally subject to a penal duty of fifty per cent. on the amount of

DECEMBER TERNX 1858.

.253

Belchr et a. v. Lawrason.

duties which would have been properly chargeable if the invoice had expressed the true value of the merchandise imported, and the excess of penal duty so charged as aforesaid
being ascertained to amount to $1,539.80, which ought to be.
returned to plaintiffs.
The plaintiffs brought the case up to this court.
It was' argued by Mr.Benjamin and Mr. Tohnson for the
plaintitfs in error, and by Mr. Hull and Mr.Black (Attorney
General) for the defendants.
One of the questions raised in the Circuit Court was abandoned by the counsel here. They conceded that the report of
the official appraisers could only be corrected by an appeal to
merchant appraisers. The question was settled in Bartlett v.
Kane, (16 How., 268,) reported subsequently to !he bringing
of the action.
Upon the first of the remaining two propositions they contended that the exaction of the penal duty of twentyper cent. on
the invoice value of the importations, under the eighth section
of the tariff act of 1846, was clearly illegal, that point being
settled by this court in the case of Greely v. Thompson, (10
How., 226,) also ruled by the NTew York Circuit Court, in
Christ v. Spear, Thompson v. Maxwell, Dlurand et al. v. Lawrence.
Upon the other proposition, the arguments of the counsel
on both sides were founded upon critical examinations of the
tariff laws, *ich would not be interesting after the historical
inquiry into these acts contained in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the eastern district of Louisiana.
The suit was brought in- the court below to recover back
from the collector of the port of NTew Orleans an excess of duties paid by the plaintiffs. The goods upon which the duties
were imposdd were certain invoices of molasses and, sugars,
imported from Matanzas, in the island of Cub, in the year

SUPREME COURT.
Bddz

et a. v. Lawrason.

1852. They were imported by the manufacturer, and, on an
appraisal of the value at the customs in Ifew Orleans, the appraised value exceeded the invoice value upwards of ten per
centum; whereupon, the collector imposed an additional duty
of twenty per centum upon the appraised value, under the 8th
section of the act of 1846, which was paid under protest.
The court below held that this additional duty was improperly imposed, under the act of 30th July, 1846, as the 8th section of that act applied only to merchandise purchased in the
foreign market, and did not embrace goods imported by the
manufacturer. The court further held, that the several shipments were subject to the increased duty imposed under the
17th section of the act of August 30, 1842; and allowed the
plaintiff to recover the excess over and beyond the amount
chargeable under this last section.
The principal question in the case is, whether or not the
17th section of the actof 1842 applies in the appraisal of merchandise imported by the manufacturer.
The act of Congress of March 1, 1828, recognised a distinction between goods imported which were purchased by the
owner in the foreign market, and goods imported by the manufacturer himself, and prescribed separate and distinct oaths to
be taken before the collector, (sec. 4.) That act also prescribed, as a rule for the appraisal of the goods, that to the
actual cost if the same shall have been actually purchased, or
the actual value if the same shall have been procured otherwise than by purchase, at the time andplace when and where purchased, or otherwise procured,&c., shall be added all charges, &c.,
(see. 5.)
The act of Congress of July 14, 1832, preserved the same
distinction as in the act of 1823, in respect to goods imported
which had been purchased, and goods procured otherwise than
by purchase, (see. 15, secs. 7 and 8.)
The 16th section of the act of 1842, like the 7th section of
the act of 1882, prescribed the rule for the appraisal of goods
imported which had been purchased in the foreign market, but
omitted any provision in respect to goods imported which had
been procured otherwise than by purchase, leaving this class

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

255

Bdc7wr d al. v. Lawrason.

of importations to the rule as prescribed in the acts of 1823,
section 5, and 1832, section 15, which was not repealed, as no
provision in that act was inconsistent with this rule. The repealing clause of that act is as follows: "And that all provisions of any former law inconsistent with this act shall be, and
the same are hereby, repealed." The regulations, therefore, of
the acts of 1823 and 1832, in respect to the time and place
when and where goods, procured otherwise than by purchase,
were left untouched by the 16th section of the act of 1842.
Then, as it regards the 17th section. That is general, and
applies to every class of importations-goods purchased, or
procured otherwise than by purchase. It regulates the mode
and manner of the appraisement. The appraisers may call
before them, and examine upon oath, the owner, importer,
consignee, or any other person, touching any matter deemed
material in ascertaining the true market value or wholesale
price of any merchandise imported; may call for letters, accounts, or invoices, relating to the valuation. It imposes a
forfeiture of one hundred dollars for any neglect or refusal to
attend before the appraisers and give evidence; makes false
swearing before them peijury; and if the person be the owner,
importer, or consignee, forfeits also the merchandise; requires
that the evidence thus taken shall be filed in the collector's
office, for future use; provides for an appeal, on the part of
the owner, importer, or consignee, to merchant appraisers, in
case of dissatisfaction at the appraisal by the permanent appraisers; makes the appraisal by the permanent or merchant
appraisers, as the case may be, final and conclusive; and then
closes with a proviso, that, in all cases where the actual value
thus appraised and ascertained shall exceed, by ten per centum,
the invoice value, then, in addition to the duty imposed by law,
there shallbe levied and collected on the goods fifty per centum
of the duty upon the appraised value. (See, also, act of Congress, March 3, 1851.)
As we have said, this section applies to all classes of importations, and regulates the mode and manner by which, the
appraisals shall be conducted by the appraisers,.giving to the
owner, importer, &c., the right of reappraisal by merchant ap-

c SUPREME COURT.
Beclher et al. v. Lawrason.

praisers, in case of dissatisfaction. It embraces not only importations of goods purchased, referred to in the 16th section
of the act, but importations procured otherwise" than by purchase, as provided for in the acts of 1823 and 1832; and while
this act of 1842 remained in full force, it subjected all importations to the penalty of fifty per centum in case of undervaluation.
Then came the act of 30th July, 1846, -the 8th section of
which changed this penalty or increased duty, in case of undervaluation, to twenty per centum on the appraised value, as
it respected goods imported which had been purchased, leaving the regulations in respect to goods imported by the manufacturers as'they existed under the former laws..
This act, like the act of 1842, repealed only such enactments
of former laws as were repugnant to its provisions, (see. 11.)
The 8th section, not including the manufacturer, left the importation subject to the 17th section of the act of 1842.
The act of 3d March, 1857, obliterates this distinction between goods purchased or procured otherwise than by purchase, and imposes upon the latter the twenty per centum
upon the appraised value, for undervaluation, the same as in
case of goods purchased. (Sess. Laws 1857, p. 199, Lit. &
Bro. ed.)
It has been argued that, admitting the goods were properly
subject to the fifty per centum increased duty, under the 17th
section of the act of 1842, inasmuch as this was not imposed
by the collector, but the higher increased duty, under the 8th
section of the act of 1846, the court below erred in charging
the shipments in question with the former. duty.
But the answer to this objection is, thet the law imposes
the increased duty incase of undervaluation, and. not the collector. It is true he is the agent of the Government to collect
it, as he is in collecting the ordinary rate of duties, but in no
other sense or character. The law. declares, in the case contemplated by the act, and which existed upom the proofs before
the court, that, in addition to the ordinary dufy, there shall be
levied and collected, &c., fifty per centum, &c. 1o demand
of the collector was necessary to create the liability. That

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.
Pemberto v. Loc-et ed a7.

arose, as matter of law, upon the facts disclosed in the record, and it was the duty of the court to enforce it; and hence
the excess over this increased duty, arisitng under the 17th section, constituted the just amount which the plaintiffs were entitled to recover.
Judgment of the court below affirmedc.

JOHN PEMBERTO,

LIQUIDATOR O THE MERCHANTS' INSURANCE

CompxAy, APELLANT, V. EDWARD LOCKETT, JA- s
- RET, AND HENRY

G.

BER-

D. JOHNSON.

An agreement between a'claimant and certain persons in Washington, whereby
the claimant agreed to allow'th6se persons a proportion of what might be recovered, was terminated 'when the -United States and Great Britain made a
convention, providing for the appointment of a board of commissioners to
decide upon claims, in which the one in question was included.
The agreement looked only to the services in Washington of the persons employed;
and the facts.of the case'indicate that such was the intention of the parties.

Tnis was an: appeal from the Circuit Court of the 'United
States for the District of Columbia.
The facts 'are stated in the opinion of the court.
The Circuit Court decreed that $14,230, (being the one-half
of the sum of $28,460 iwarded,) less five per cent., together
with interest thereon from the 20th of June, 1855, and costs,
be paid by Pehibeiton to the complainants. From this decree,
Pemberton appealed to this court.
It was' argued by Mr. Brent and Mfr. Johnson, with whom
was Mr. May, for the appellant, and b' Mr. Bradley for the
appellees, on which side there was also a brief filed by Mr.
Bradey and Mr..Hayes.
There were many points raised by the counsel for the appellant; but as several of them were not touched upon in the
decision of the cort;it is proper t6mention only such as were.
The pAn.ipal points Nvhich were.included in the decision relatqd to the facts of the case, and, were as follows:
17
VOL. XXI

