SUPREME COURT.
United States v. City Bank of Columbms.

When that case, however, occurs in this court, it will be decided; and we now merely remark that, from our examination
of most of the cases in the common-law reports, upon the facts
of those cases, we have been brought to the conclusion that
there is no rule of general application as to when the consignor
or consignee should bring the suit at common law, but that it
will always be important to consider in whom the right of property, and sometimes in whom the right of possession, was
vested at the time of the breach of the con'tract or neglect of
duty which is complained, of.
We direct the affirmance of the decree from which this appeal
was taken.
Mr. Justice iNELSON dissented.

THE UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. TH
oF COLUMBUS.

CIT BA ]K

Where the cashier of a bank wrote to the Secretary of the Treasury, saying that
the bearer of the letter was authorized to contract for the transfer of money
from New York to New Orleans, and such a transaction was not within the
scope of the powers of the cashier, nor authorized by the directors, the bank
was not bound to reimburse the money which the Secretary of the Treasury
advanced.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit

Court of the United States for the southern district of Ohio.
The facts of the case and also the instructions given to the
jury upon the trial are all set forth in the cipinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Hull and Mlr. Black (Attorney General) for the United States, and by Mr. Stanbery for the defendant.
The Attorney General contended that it might be true that
the cashier had no power to make the appointment, yet the
directors had such power, and the cashier's letter may-fairly

DECEMBER TERM, 1858i
MnWe

857

&ats ,. City Bank of CoZumbu.

be considered as a certificate that the appointment had been
legally made; because, if the directors had appointed Miner,
the cashier would-have written just such a letter as he did write.
Amongst other illustrations of this principle was the following:
If it were true that the appointment of an agent by a corporation must be evidenced by an entry on the minutes, or by
any other writing, then it might plausibly be urged that the
cashier or other certifying officer has only the power of certifying to a copy of such record or writing. But there is no
such rule of law.
In the Bank of the United States v. Dandridge, (12 Wheat.,
64,) it was distinctly decided by this court that the acts of a
corporation,. though not reduced to writing, are valid and binding,
and may be proved aliunde. It is true that this doctrine did
not command the assent of Chief Justice Marshall, who, in an
able dissenting opinion, maintained the contrary; but it is now
well-established law. (See Angell. and Ames on Corp., sec.
284; Conro v: Port Henry Iron Company, 12 Barbour Sup.
Ct. Reps., '53; Burgess v. Pue, 2 Gill,, 287; Richardson v.
St. Joseph Iron Company, 5 Blacktord, 148; Badger v. Bank
of Cumberland, 26 Maine, 485; Elysville Manufacturing Co.,
v. Okisko Company, 1 Md. Chy. Dec., 898.)
These authorities conclusively establish that, unless the
charter provides otherwise, (as in this case it does not,) the
appointment of an agent need not be in writing, or entered
u on the minutes, but may be by parol, and provable like
other facts.
But if this be so, there is no foundation for.the assumption
that the cashier can only certify the agency by copying the
record of the appointment, for non coistat that there is any
record. And no custbm of this bank isshown to the contrary.
Even if it had been, it could have no effect, unless the Secretary of the Treasury had notice of it; but, in fact, the cashier
testifies that meetings of the board were held not entered on
the minutes.
We have thus far shown1st. That the directors had the power to appoint an agent
to make this contract on behalf of tle bank

.858

SUPREME COURT.
United Stata v. City Bank of Columbus.

2d. That the appointment of such agent need not be entered
on the minutes, or reduced to writing.
3d. That the cashier is the proper officer to certify the fact
of such appointment.
,But the act of the cashier, within the scope of his duties, is
the act of the bank. '(Badger v. Cumberland, 26 Maine, 435;
Story Agency, sec. 114; Angell and Ames Corp., sec. 300.)
It matters not that the thing certified was not true in fact.
A principal is bound by the false and fraudulent representalions of his agent in the scope of his authority. (Story Agency, sec. 139; ib., sec. 452.)
The next proposition is, that the bank having, through their
cashier, asserted that Mr. Miner was agent, and the Secretary
of the Treasury having acted on that information, the bank is
now estopped to deny it.
The doctrine of estoppel in pais is thus distinctly stated by
Lord Denman in Pickard v. Sears, (6 Ad. and Ellis, 469; 33
E. C. L. Reps., 117 :)
"But the rule of law is clear, that where one, by his words
or conduct, wilfully causes another to believe the existence of
a certain state of things, and induces him to act on that belief,
so as to alter his own previous position, the former is concluded from averring, against the latter, a different state of things
as existing at the same time."
This doctrine is recognised by all courts of the common law.
(See Brown v. Wheeler, 17 Conn., 353; Carpenter v..Stillwell,
12 Barbour Sup. Ct. Reps., 136.)
This doctrine applies to. corporations as fully as to individuals. (Angell and Ames on Corp., sec. 238, p. 232.)
In Lovett v. Gdrman Reformed Church; (12 Barbour Sup.
Ct. Reps., 81,) the court held the corporation estopped by the
acts of acting trustees, though not rightfully in office.
In Bank of Genesee v. Patchin Bank, (3 Kernan's Reps., N.
Y., p. 317,) the same doctrine is recognised.
But a corporation can do acts, or make declarations, in no
other way than through its officers and agents. Therefore a
corporation will be estopped by the acts or declarations of
its officer or agent, acting in the sphere of his authority,

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.
United States v. City Bank of Columus.

in all cases where an individual would be estopped by his
own.
Applying the above rules to this case, we find every ingredient mentioned by Lord Denman as required to make an
estoppel.
This bank, through the written certificate of their cashier,
he being the officer empowered by the usage of banks to certify its doings, has wilfully caused the Secretary of'the Treasury to believe that Miner was authorized by the bank to contract for the transfer of funds. The Secretary was thereby induced to act on that belief, and to place in the hands of said
Mliner $100,000, to be transferred to New Orleans. The bank
is therefore concluded from averring that Miner was not at that
time its agent.
The case is ther~fore with the plaintiff upon the law.
J1r. Stanbe4, for the defendant in error, contended that it
was not within the power of a cashier, in, virtue of his office,
to make such a contract, or rather to authorize another to
make it, and referred to 8 Wheaton, 360; 6 Peters, 59; 12
Eng. Law and Eq. Rep., 889; 1 Selt. N. Y. Rep., 832.
The nature and importance of the contract was such as to require the judgment of the directors. This is altogether beyond
the usual business of buying and selling exchange. Neither
,the charter nor the by-laws gave this power to the cashier.
5. It has been argued that the letter of Moodie purports to
be a certificate that Miner was duly authorized by the bank;
and as the cashier is the certifying officer of the acts of the
board, the bank is estopped from denying the truth of this
certificate.
In the first place, this letter contains no certificate of an
authority given by the board; but if it did, nay, if it purported to
copy a resolution of the board, and it should appear there was
no such resolution, the bank would not be bound.
The argument on the other side would indirectly make the
principal liable in all cases where the agent clothes his hnauthorized act with a false representation of authority from the
principal.

SUPREME COURT.
Unitd States v, My Bank of Cfolumbuw.

This subject is well discussed in the Mechanics' Bank v. The
N'ew York and New Haven R. R. Co., 3 Kernan, 636.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court. •
The only question arising on this record is, whether the court
erred in so much of the charge to the jury as is set out in the
bill of exceptions. Objections were taken in the course of the
trial to testimony, but no exceptions were taken to the rulings
of the court upon them. The declaration in the case contained
two counts-one of them alleging that a contract had been
made between the City Bank of Columbus and the United
States, by which the bank agreed, on the 1st November, 1856,
to transfer one hundred thousand dollars of the public money
from New York to New Orleans by the first of January, 1851,
free of charge; and the other account for money had and received by the bank for the use of the United States.
The charge given by the court was confined to the first count.
The bill of exceptions sets but the following evidence, whith
was introduced by the United States to show a contract with
the bank.
The following lettar was written by the cashier of the bank:
CITY BANK OF COLUMBUS,

Columbus, Ohio, 26th October, 1850.
Sr The bearer, Colonel William Miner, a director cf this
bank, is authorized, on behalf of this institution, to make prbposals for the purchase of United States stocks to the amounl
of one hundred thousand dollars. He is also authorized, if
consistent with the rules of the Treasury Department, to contract, on behalf of this institution, for the transfer of money
from the East to the South or West, for the Government.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
THOMAS MOODIE, Cashier.
HoN. THOMAS CoRwIN,

Secretary of the Treasury, Washington City.
This letter was presented by Mr. Miner to Mr.. Corwin on
the first of November, 1850. On the same day, Mr. Corwin
wrote to Mr. Minbr the following letter;

) ECEMBER TERM, 1858.

861

Une States v. City Bank of Columbus.
TREASURy DEPARTmENT, November 1, 1850.
SIR: Your proposition of this date, to transfer $100,000
from New York or Philadelphia to New Orleans, by the 1st
January next, free of charge to the Department, is accepted.
You will receive herewith a transfer draft on the Assistant
Treasurer at New York, in favor of the Assistant Treasurer at
New Orleans, for $100,000, with the authority endorsed to
make the payment at New York to you.
I, am, very respectfully,
THOMAS CORW1N, Secretar.

This was followed by an undertaking for the transfer of one
hundred thousand dollars for the Government from New York
to New Orleans:
WASHIn GTON CITy, November 1, 1850.
This will certify that I have contracted with the United
States Treasury,. as the agent of the City Bank of Columbus,
to transfer $100,000 from New York to New Orleans, to be
deposited in the Treasury at the latter-named city by'the first
day of January, 1851, free of charge. I have, in pursuance of
said contract, this day received a draft in my own hand for one
hundred thousand dollars on the United States.Treasury at New
York city, which is to be accounted for in said contract.
WILLIAM MiNER.

Miner received the draft, and cashed it in person on the 2d
.November, 1850.; but what he did witti it no one knows, or
this record does not-show' It is certain that it was not repaid
in New Orleans according to the contract; and there are no
proofs on this record which can raise a presumption that the
'Bank of Columbus evel-reecived a dollar of it. There is proof
that'Miner was all that time a director of the bank, and that
Moodie, who gave him the letter to the Secretary of the Treasury, was the cashier,.and that he signed his name to the letter
as cashier; and that the letter had been copied into the letter
book of the bank. A by-law of the bank was also put in
proof, to show that it might be inferred from it that he had
authority, as cashier, to empower Mr. Miner, as a director of

SUPREME COURT.
United Stata v. C4 ffank of Columbw.

the bank, to enter into such a contract as he had mave with
the Secretayy of the Treasury. The by-law is: "A committee
of two shall be appointed every six months to advise witli the
prsident and cashier. In their absence, all the ordinary business of the bank may be done by the president and cashier;
and if either of them be not present, then by the other alone;
but any discount, negotiation, or contract, whether made by
the board or committee, is to be done by the consent of all
present."
It was also shown that there had not been a meeting of the
directors in either July or August, 1850. That there had been
a meeting on the 21st September, 1850, and anothr November 4th, 1850, nine days before the cashier gave hir letter
to Miner, and three days after the date of Miner's conti ct, to
transfer the money from New York to New Orleans.

The

minutes of the bank, as kept by the cashier, of the mcetings
of the directors, do not show any intention upon the rurt of
the directors to enter into a contract for the purpose of buying
stock of the United States, or for the transmission of the money
.of the United States from the East to the South or West, as
Moodie expresses it in his letter; or that after the negotiation
of Miner, and his receiving the money from the Assistant
Treasurer in New York, that the directors or president of the
bank had any knowledge of the transaction until after Miner's"
default to pay the amount at New Orleans. Moodie testifies
that he wrote the letter of the 26th of October, 1850, for Miner
to negotiate. with the Secretary of the Treasury, without the
knowledge of the president or any of the directors of the bank,
except Miner himself, and that the fact that such a letter had
been written was not communicated by him to any of the directors until January after, though he had caused a copy of it
to be put in the letter book. All of the directors, at the time
of the transaction, have sworn that Moodie had not been
authorized by the board or by any of themselves to constitute
Miner such agent; that they had no knowledge of Moodie's
letter, and that they never sanctioned the same. And there
is other testimony in the case, that Moodie, as cashier, had not
the power to depute Miner for any such purpose, and that it

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

863

United States v. City Bank of Columbus.

would not have been 'done .but by a resolution of the board of
directors. Upon this evidence, and some other which it is not
material to notice, the court charged the jury. After they had
retired, 'and consulted for some time, they came into court
and asked for further instructions, and the court gave them
the following charge in reference to the contract set out in the
-irst count of the declaration: "That-if they should find that
-the letter written by Moodie was his own act, and had been
given without the knowledge 'or authority of the -board.of directors, or any of them individually, except Miner, and that
the agency of Minr was. not constituted by or known to the
board of directors, or the directors individually, or any of them
except Miner, but was the act of the cashier alone; and if they
should find that Moodie had no 'power as cashier, except such
as belonged to the office of cashier generally, or such as are
given by the charter or by the by-law or other law. or usage of
the said bank, that the defendant was not concluded by that
letter, and is not bound by the contract made by Miner, without some subsequent ratification of the same, though the Seeretary had, in contrafting with Miner, relied upon it as the act
of the.bank."
To this charge the plaintiff excepted, and, on account of that
exception alone, the case has -been brought to this court by writ
of 6rror. In our opinion, no charge could have been more
comprehensive of the merits of the case, more precise in' its
application to the particulars of the testimony introduced by
the plaintiff and the defendant, or more expressive of what the
law is upon such a state of facts. It is all that the litigants
could have expected, and is liberal to both. It is also in coincidence. with the views generally entertained of the powers'and
duties of the"cashiers of banks, by those most familiar with the
management and business -of banks, and perfectly so with such
as have been'expressed by this court in previous reported cases.
In Fleckner v. The Bank of the United States, (8 Wheat., 838,
3356, 857,) this 6ourt said, the charter authorizes the president
and directors to appoint a cashier and other officers 6f the
bank, and gives the president and directors, or a majority of
'them, full power and authority to make all such rules and reg.

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. City Bank of Columbus.

ulations for the government of the affairs and conducting the
bpsiness of said bank, as shall not be contrary to -the act of
incorporation. It contains no regulations as to the duties of
cashiers; with the directors it would rest to fix the duties of
cashier or other officers. Whether they have made any regulation upon thissubject, does not appear; but the acts of the
cashier, done in the ordinary course of the business actually
confided to such an officer, may well be deemed primafacie
evidence that they fell within the scope of his duty. In the
ease Bank of the United States v. Dunn, (6 Peters, 51,) the
court would not permit the president and cashier of the bank
to bind it by their agreement with the endorser of a promissory
note, that he should not be liable on his endorsement. It said
it is not the duty of the cashier and president to make such contracts, nor have they power to bind the bank, except in the discharge of their ordinary duties. All discounts are made under
the authority of the directors, and it is for them to fix any conditions wbich they may think proper in loaning money. The
court defines the cashier of the bank to be an executive. officer,
by whom-its debts are received and paid, and its securities
taken and transferred, and that his acts, to be binding upon a
bank, must be done within the ordinary course of his duties.
His ordinary duties are to keep all the funds of the bank, its
notes, bills, and other choses in action, to be used from time
to time for the ordinary and extraordinary exigencies of the
bank. He usually receives directly, or through the subordinatq officers of the bank, all moneys and notes of the bank,
delivers' up all discounted notes and other securities when they
have been paid, draws checks to withdraw the funds of the
bank where they have been deposited, and, as the executive
officer of the bank, transacts most of its business.
The term ordinary business, with direst reference to the
duties of cashiers of banks, -occurs frequently in English cases,
and in.the reports of the decisions of our State courts, and in
no one of them has it been judicially allowed to comprehend
a contract made by a cashier, without an express delegation
of power from a board of directors to do so, which involves the
payment of mfoney, unless it be such as has been loaned in the

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.
United States v. City Bank of Columbuw.

usual and customary way. Nor has it ever been decided that
a cashier could purchase or sell th6 property, or create an
agency of any kind for a bank which he had not been authorized to make by those to whom has been confided the power
to manage its business, both ordinary and extraordinary. The
case of Kirk v. Bell, (182-English and Common-Law Reports,
889,) and that of Hoyt v. Thompson, were very appropriately
cited by the counsel of the appellee, in'this connection; and
we think the safe rule in all instances of acts done by the officers of corporate companies, or by thosg who have the management of their business, from which contracts are alleged to'
have been made, is, to test that fact by an inquiry into the
corporate ability which has been given to them and to their
subordinate officers, or which the directors of the company can
confer upon the latter to act for them. Such was the view of
this court when it decided, in the case of the Bank of the
-United States v. Dunn, (6 Peters,) that a release given by its
president and cashier to the endorser of a promissory note'of
his liability upon it, did not bind the bank, neither nor both
having any" authority to make contracts of that kind. The
case before us is one in which a cashier acts alone, and in
which he testifies that he did so without any consultation with
the president or directors of the company, and of which they
had no information from him of the transaction until after the
failure of Miner to pay the money in I'ew Orleans. The act
under which the City Bank of Columbus became a corporation
does not, in any part of it, *giveany power to a cashier to act
independently of the directors. No specific power is given to
the directors ,to appoint a cashier. In the general pover given
to the directors to appoint officers to do the ordinary business
of the bank,- they have an authority to appoint a cashier, and
such an appointment is a limitation of.that officer's executive
function in doing the business of the bank. ' It cannot be pretended that the directors, as a whole, or ,any one of them, except Miner, -consentea to the cashier's designation of Miner
for any such purpose as was concluded between them, to induce the Secretary to believe that Miner-was the agent of the
bank, either to buy stock of the United States or to enter into

SUPREME COURT.
State of New York v. Dibble.

contracts for the transmission of money, free of charge, to
those posts where the United States should-designate it to be
put. Such a power in the Secretary of the Treasury is a
necessary one for the transaction of the busiiess of the Govern-ment, pervading, as it does, every parL of the country. The
exercise of it, however, requires great care and caution in the
selection of agents for such a purpose,, and no authority short
of the most certain should be taken to establish the representative character of any one for a private company or-corporation to enter into such a contract with the Secretary.
The United States, as plaintiff in this action, has failed to
establish the contract which it alleges in its declaration had
been made with the City Bank of Columbus, for the transmission of money; and we direct the judgment given in the court
below to be affirmed.

THE PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF IEW YORK, EX REL. ASA CUTLER,
JOHN UNDERHILL,-JUN., AND ARZA UNDERHILL, PLAINTIFFS IN

ERROR, V. EDGAR
COUNTY.

0. DIBBLE, COUNTY JUDGE OF GENESEE

A statute of the State of New York, making it unlawful for any persons other
than Indians to settle or reside upon any lands belonging to or occupied by
any nation or tribe of Indians within that State, and providing for the summary ejectment'of such persons, is not in conflict with the Constitution of the
United States, or any treaty, or act of Congress, and tihe proceedings under it
Aid not deprive the persons thus removed of property or rights secured to them
by any treaty or act of Congress.

THIs case was brought up from the Supreme Court of the

State of New York b "a writ of error issued under the 25th
sectioh of the judiciary act.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court, And is reported in the New York State courts, in 18 Barb., 412, and 2d vol.
of Smith's Reports of the Court of Appeals, 203, being 16 -New
York Reports.

