460

SUPREME. COURT.
Western Telegraph Company v. Penniman et al

graph Company, and no contract, express or implied, is shown,
the complainant is without remedy.
Men, unless legally bound to certain duties, may, from whim
or caprice, indulge their supposed interests or resentments with
out responsibility. Unless certain rates of transmitting intelligence have been established, a reduction of such.rates, whether
done secretly or publicly, will affect the profits on other lines.
INothing set up in the bill, in the form of a contract, entitles
the complainant to relief. A choice of lines may well be exercised, if there be no violation of the patent, although the circuitous line passes over a greater distance, as this can be no
ground of complaint. It violates no contract, and almost
necessarily grows out of the competition in this branch of
business.
From the facts stated in the bill, there seems to be no-ground
for relief. Judgment affirmed.

THE WESTERN TELEGRAPH COMPANY, APPELLANTS, V. GEORGE
- C. PENNIMAN' AND JOHN KING.

The dfecision in the preceding case again affirmed.

THIS case, like the preceding,,was an appeal from the Cir
cuit Court of the United States for the district of Maryland,
and was a branch of the same case.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court, and was
argued by the same counsel as the preceding.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion-of the court.
This case is before us by an appeal froni the Circuit-Court
of the United States f6r the district of Maryland.
The Western Telegraph Company, a corp6ration incorporated by the States of Maryland, Virginia, and Pennsylvania,
have filed their bill against George C. Penniman afil John
King, citizens of Mary.and, and charges them with the viola'

tion of the patented rights of the Western Telegraph Company,

DECEMBER TERM- 1858.
Western Tdegrap7&Company v. Penniman e a,.

under a contract made with Morse, Vail, and Sifith, dated the
8th of March, 1840. The above-named persons are alleged to
-be the sole proprietors of the right to construct and use Morse's
electro-magnetic telegraph by him invented and patented, on
the route between Baltimore, in the State of Maryland, and
New York and Harrisburg, in the State of Pennsylvania, for
and in consideration of thirty dollars per mile, by the route on
which the telegraph has been or may be constructed, between
the points or pla'es aforesaid. And-said right, through their
agent, Amos Kendall, was conveyed unto John C. Penniman
and his assigns, to construct between the points or places
aforesaid the said telegraph, with one or more wires, with the
apparatus for working the same and the improvements therein.
And the said Morse & Co. covenant not to grant toany other
person or persons the right to 6ohstruct any other line of telegraph under the patent aforesaid, within the aforesaid limits,
6ither in a direct or indirect line.
The contract between Kendall, .as attorney of Morse and
Vail, with the Western Telegraph Company, granted to it in
due form the privileges of said letters patent for lines of telegraph belonging to it, between Baltimore and Wheeling, with
a branch therefrom to Washington city, and 9 branch from
Brownsville to the city of Pittsburg, &c.; and the right of
Francis 0. J. Smith, which was also conveyed, was limited to
.the Western Telegraph Conipany's existing lines from Baltimore, in the State of Maryland, to Wheeling, in the State of
Virginia, and in branches to Washington and Pittsburg cities;
the right herein conveyed and so limited by said territorial
termini being one-fourth part of said invention and letters
.patent, &c.
The complainants pray for an injunction, and that an account may be taken, for a breach of its patent privileges.
The defendants procured an assignment of Morse's patented
elevtro-telegraph between the cities of Baltimore and Harrisburg, and afterwards a like assignrfent from him between Baltimore and Wheeling, with the right of a branch to Pittsburg
and Wastiington; and it is alleged that complainants claim
the right to telegraphic business on the Morse plan between

462

SUPREME COURT.
Wesecrn Tdegraph Company v. Penniman et al.

those points; not only all that commence and end at these
several points, but all that, starting at remote points, has to
reach either of those points by coming through either of the
others.
There can be no doubt that the right of transmitting on the
lines conveyed to the Western Telegraph Company are as full
and ample as would have been the rights of the patentee, had
he never assigned them.
The assignment of Mokse's to a cempany from Pittsburg to
Philadelphia, and from Washington to Baltimore, Philadelphia, and New York, it is alleged, has enabled the defendants
to take messages at Harrisburg from Wheeling, directed to
Baltimore and Washington, and other southern points; and
has ilso, in like manner, taken riessages from the Magnetic
Company between Washington and New York at Baltimore,
and transit them to Pittsburg, and to points west, through
Pittsburg. And this was done, it is said, in conjunction with
the said companies, in order to get the business which, but
for said combination, would and ought to have come by the
complainants' line.
The charges against Penniman and King are, substantially,
the same combinations as charged against the agents of the
Magnetic Company; and we can only say, as was said in the
other case, the assignees may caim a protection in all the
rights assigned to them; and if, in any respect, their patent
has been infringed, a remedy is open to them. But it does
not appear that the defendants -were limited as to the use of
the lines owned by the Wes~tern Telegraph Company, although
the points on their lines were shortest. Each person, in using
a telegraph line, is free to select his own conveyance. There
are several things which recommend telegraphic lines. The
machinery should be kept in proper ordei; strict attention
should be given to the transmission of messages, and compe
tent persons engaged in the office. Where there is much competition, great energy is required; and if this be wanting, sue
cess may not be expected.
The principal ground of complaint in the bill is, that the
business of the Western Telegraph Company has been divert-

•DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

463

conversa v. Unf~d &&au.

ed from it, aud thrown upon other lines, greatly to its injury,
and it would seem that circuitous. routes, have been selected,
rather than the more direct ones. If this be so, does it afford
a ground for relief? There is no obligation on a persoi sending a telegraphic message to select the shortest or the 1.ongest
line. He may consult his own interest or choice in such a
matter, and he incurs no responsibility to any one, unless he
has entered into a contract to forward all such messages on a
particular line. 1No such allegation is contained in the bill,
and there is no charge that the Western Telegrapl Company
has been molested in the exercise of its patented rights, except
by the transfer o' its business to other lines; and-it is not alleged that these lines are prohibited from carrying messages.
by reason of their contiguity to. the plaintiftis' lines.
Judgment affirmed;

.JAMES C. CONVERSE, A.DMINISTRATOR OF PHILIP GREELY, DE.
CEASED, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. THE UNITED STATES.
1. The provisions in the appropriation acts of 1849 and 1850, &c., &c., must be
construed in connection with the previous laws in relation to the same subject.
matter.
2. A compensation for extra services where no certain compensation is fixed ty
law cannot be allowed by the head of a Department to any'officer of the Government who has by law a fixed or. certain compensation for his services in the
office he holds. Nor can it be allowed by the court or jury as a set-off in a suit
brought by the United States against an officer for public money in his hands.'
-3. No allowaiee beyond his fixed compensation can be made except for the performance of eer;tin duties required by law to be performed, for which the law
grants -a certain compensation to be paid, and which have no connection-with
the duties oftle office he holds.
4; The Secretary of the Treasury, under the acts of Congress above mentioned,
-*as authorized to appoint an agent to.purchase all the supplies necessary for
the light-hbu~e sbrvice.throughout the United States, and to make the neces- sary d4isbursemenl therefor. And such agent was entitled to a compensation
of two and.a half per tent, on the amount disbursed, and the money.was appr.
,priated to-pay it.
5. The Secretary'bad a right , under these laws, to select as agent any one already
holding office, if he supposed him to be best-qualied for the duty. But he had

