DECEM1B ER TERM, 1858.

35

Unwn Lzsurance Cotapajv. Hoge.

and we are not satisfied that it could not have been done or
successfully commenced during the time he remained in
Presque Isle. A removal of a part would have enabled him
to protect the residue on board, and there is no sufficient
ground fiom the evidence to conclude that he would have encountered any serious difficulty in finding places enough for
storing to have enabled hin to remove from the steamer all of that
class of goods exposed to damage, and store them on shore.
At that time the goods had not received any considerable injury, and most of them, in all probability, none whatever.
Prompt attention would have saved the property and protected
the shipper from loss. It must not be understood that a master can abandon his ship and cargo upon any such grounds as
are proved by the evidence in this case, or, indeed, upon any
other, so far as the goods are -concerned, when it is practicable
for human exertionsY skill, and prudence, to save them from
the impending peril.
This view of the evidence renders it unnecessary to consider
the other grounds of defence set up by the respondents.
The decrees, therefore, of the District Court in the respective cases.are affirmed, with costs, in each case for the libellants.

THE U0wiox INSURAN CE COMPANY, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. JOHN
BLAIR HOGE.
Under a general act of the Legislature of New York, passed on the 10th of'
April, 1849, which apthorized the incorporation of insur nce compames in the
State under it held that the eighth section in the charter of a mutual insurance
company formed under the general aet, which provided for the payment of
cash premiums, at the election of the insured, as well as premiums secured by
notes, was authorized by the general act, and that a policy issued upon a payment of the premium m cash was legal and valid.

THis case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States -for the northern -district of New
York.
It was an action brought by Hoge upon a policy of insurance
upon a paper-mill in Virginia. The insurance company were

SUPREME COURT.
Vnwn Insurance Company v. Ioge.

incorporated by the Legislature of New York, and their place
of doing business was in that State. The law of New York
and charter of the company are set forth in the opinion of the
court.
The declaration stated that the policy of insurance was made
in November, 1851, for the consideration of fifty-six dollars,
and that for that sum the company agreed to insure the mill
for one year to the amount of $2,500. The plea was, that
the business of the company was to be conducted on the plan
of mutual insurance, and that the receiving of a definite sum
of money, -in lieu of a premium note for the policy of insurance,
was not warranted by the act of 1849, 4nd that the policy was
void, as made without authority, and in violation of the statute.
To this plea there was a demurrer.
The Circuit Court decided that the policy was a valid policy,
and the company brought the case up to this court.
It was argued by Mlr Van Der L jn for the plaintiffs in error,
and Mr Mygatt for the defendant.
Mr Van Der Lyn made the following points:
POINT FIRST.-The issuing of policies upon the plan of stock
companies, and the receiving of a definite sum in lieu of a premium note, is not warranted by the act of 1849, and is in violation of its manifest spirit; and therefore the policy declayed
on is void, being made without authority and in violatio of
the statute.
We say this for several reasons.
1. This is a mutual insurance company, formed to do business'on the plan of mutual insurance, and is so declared in the
charter, in pursuance of the act of 1849, sec. 10. (See 2d- sec.
of the charter.) "Its business shall be conducted on the plan
of mutual insurance." The company was organized without
a dollar of cash capital, and with $100,000 of premium notes,
(sees. 5 and11,) and was prohibited from commencing business without $100,000 of premium notes. The act has not a
word, ora provision, indicating the right to do business after
the stock or cash plan, and a corporation can exercise no
powers not expressly granted, or that are not necessary to carry

DECEMBER TERLM, 1858,
Unton Irmitrance Company v. Hoge.

into effect those that are granted. (See authorities cited
under point third, Tost.) And, moreover, that statute express]y prohibited. the- commencing business on the stock plan
without $50,000 of cash capital.
2. The company, being organized under the -general act as
a mutual company, and, with a capital made up of premium
notes, by direction of the statute, the Legislature, by the term
"mutual mnsurance," used in the act, must be deemed to have
adopted the term as it bad become known in the legislatiou
of the State, and as expressed in the Jefferson and Madison
County Mutual Insurance Company charters. (Laws of 1836,
pages 42 and '89.) In these acts of incorporation, the members were "all persons who should insure." (See. 2.) "Each
person, before he received his policy and became a member;
must depose his premium note, and pay a sum in cash not exceeding five per cent.," (sec. 6,) and tne-members were bound
for losses to the extent. of the said note, and, in addition, onedollar for every $100 of the sum insured on the mutual principle. (Secs. 8 and 11.) Over thirty companies were chartered
the same session after this patteru act; and. in subsequent sessions, I may say. that out of New Yoirk city nearly, or quite
every mutual insurance company was chartered after this pattern act, there being twenty or thirty charters each session referring to and adopting it. In May, 1834, the Saratoga Company had been organized under a similar act, requiring a preunum note, and previous to that, the Scoharie Company and
the Washington -Company were chartered, with similar provisions, except the onission of the premimm-note feature.
We say, therefore, that in 1849, when a general act was to be
passed, it had become a settled feature in the mutual insurance.
companies, that a premzum note, in'stead of' a cash premium,
was essentiil to the idea of. a mutual company; and that interpretation:of -the word "mutual" was clearly indicated by
the requirement, in mutual companes, of a. capital made up of
premium or deposit notes, inafead of a cash .capital,which was required in companies ooganied on the plan of stock companies
and in life insurance. (Act of 1849, p. 441, sees. 5 and 6.)
It certainly will not be insisted that the -Legislature it6nded

SUPREME COURT.
Vnwn Insurance Company v. Hoge.

to follow the example of the companies which had been chartered in New York, with a cash premium instead of a premium
note; if so, they would have required the capital to consist of
cash premiums, and, besides, the failure of those companies
operated as a beacon of warning to the law-makers against
any such system. An additional reason to the almost universal prevalence in the State of New York of the mutual companies, on the plan of the Jefferson County Company, and the
great success of that system, and to the requirement by the act
of a capital in the mutual eompanies composed wholly of premium notes,. and the entire omission of any authority in the
act to allow a business to be commenced by the mutual companies in part or in whole on the stock plan, and the impracticability of pursuing the mutual principle when part of the
members are obtaining policies on the cash or stock plan, and
a part on the mutual plan, and the entire abandonment of the
mutual principle by such a course, I say, an additional reason
to infer the intent of the Legislature is found -in the prevalence of this premium-note principle in the other States.
(Angel, 424, sec. 418.)
In Indiana, Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, Vermont,
Illinois, New Hampshire, Pennsylvania, and many others, the
Legislatures, at the time of the act in 1849, had adopted the
premium-note system, as we claim it to be. I infer this.from
the decisions of their courts, without an actual examination
of the acts m the several States.
8. It is some evidence of the necessity of having legislative
authority for issuing policies for a definite sum paid in cash
in lieu of a premium note, that a special enactment has been
resorted to for that purpose, instead of coming in under the
14th section of the general act, which would have given the
power, if it were possible, under the provisions of that statute.
(Session Laws of New York, 1849, pp. 436, 184, ibid, 1850,
p. 837, ibid, 1852, pp. 27, 899, 65, 3 Ohio, N. S., 848.)
4. Another and to our minds a conclusive objection to the
exercise of this power of receiving a definite sum in lieu of a
premium note (without an express legislatie sanction) is, that
itdestroys the principle of mutuality, which is the leading char-

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

89

Unwa Insurance CnpayJ v. Hoge.

acteristic of mutual companies formed under the act of 1849,
and confounds the operation of a company "organized to do
business on the mutual plan," with that of those.companies which
are organized on the plan of stock companies, and which .are in
their nature and principles antagonistic to the mutual companies.
To illustrate this idea, suppose that au individual desires to
make an insurance in a mutual company He makes his application, and receives a policy for $1,000, and executes a premiuih note for $100, and pays in addition five per cent. of
that sum in cash. --If the company is prudently and successfully managed, this live per cent. will pay expenses and all
ordinary losses. But he is liable to pay, if any exigency like
a disastrous fire renders it necessary, upop a just assessment,
the whole of Ins $100 note, to satisfy the losses of any of his
associates, who have also given their premium notes, and all
who have given premium notes share in thzs,contribution, which
constitutes the principle of mutuality. Now,, let us suppose
that he applies to and is insured in a stock company; he gets
his policy for $1,000, and pays for it one per cent., $10. He
is. entitled to the same indemnity in case of a loss as he was in
the mutual company; but when he pays his premium, he
ceases to have any frther interest in the successful operation
of the company; he is the insured, but not the insurer, and
whether the company make gains or suffer losses, matters not
to him, provided the company continues solvent. In the
mutual company, he was not only the insured, but he was also
one of the insurers, and suffered a loss by the loss of any one of
his fe-ow-members. NVow, suppose he insured in a mutual
company by paying a definite sum in lieu of a prer.im note,
and we will suppose that he pays one per cent., (for -unless a
mutual company insures at the ordinary stock -rates, it would
soon cease to make cash insuranceso;) he would pay $10, and
get.his policy. And, now, what is his situation as to his fellowmembers of the company?9He gets the same indemnity, as
he ili& in the mutual company, on giving his premium hote,
and the'same he got in the stock company, buthe is no longer
interested ivthe successful operation of the company; he suf-

SUPREME COURT.
Unton Insurance Company v. Hoge,

fers nothing by the losses of his associates, and is not liable to
contribute in any manner for their relief; he is the insured
party,just as he is in the stock company, but he is not the insurer, on the contrary, all the premium-note makers are the rnsurers, and stand in precisely the condition of stockholders in
a stock company, and in this way, and by this device, the
makers of the premium notes are turned into a stock company, and
become insurers to stock poliy holders, to a ruinous amount,
without any liability on their part to contribute to any loss
whatever.
Rhinehart v. All. Mut. Co., 1 Barr Penn. Rep., 859.
Angel, p. 424.
Bangs v. Gray, 2 Kernan, 477, 479.
7 Watts and Sergt., 849, 851, after saying, "That any person insured is a member of the company," Gibson, Chief J.,
says "And on no other plan could a mutual company be constituted, the object of the members being to share each other s
losses for the general weal, and not to bear the risk of losses for
a premium "-which is quite significant, when we remember
that the stock companies bear the risk of losses for a premium.
Mutual Benefit Company v. Jarvis, (22 Conn., 138, 145.)
This was a mutual life insurance policy, and a case where the
policy ewas payable in cash. The court adopt a particular
construction to sustain the mutual principle
"This makes between all the members that mutuality in regard to profits and losses which was contemplated by the
charter and the organization of the company, and if the
company can collect such notes as it pleases, without making
an equal assessment on all, it is clear that there is an end of
everything like mutuality."
5. There is another consideration which serves to show that
this practice of receiving a definite sum in lieu of a premium
note is wholly unwarranted by the spirit of the act of 1849. It
is quite easy to demonstrate that a company might, in the course
of two or three years, entirely change the charter of a mutual
insurance company into that of a stock company, without having
at the outset a dollar of cash capital. Suppose' that, when a
company is organized, it received notes to the required sum of

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

41

Unwn hiurance Company v. Hog&

.$100,000, and issued policies thereupon, all of which expire in
one and two years. The officers, under a charter framed -by
themselves, (but in violation of the act, as we say,) commence
doing business on the cash principle, and proceed. for a year
or two, issuing cash policies, but no policies on premium
notes. In the mean time, all the mutual policies have expired , and the company finds itself, doing business on the
stock instead of the mutual principle, and is transmuted- into a
stock company (if we are to believe, our opponents) by a legitimate exercise of their powers as a mutual company It has
lost its identity, and the character impressed upon it by its
organization, and has become a company of a totally antagonistic character.. It has done this without a dollar of cash
capital, and in defiance of the prohibition in the 7th section,
by which the company was forbidden to commence, that is, to
do any business, as a stock company, without a stock capital.
Such is the absurdity into which our opponents are driven by
their own hypothesis.
6. In opposition to the views above expressed, it is argued
by our opponents that the phraseology of the act; and the
meanimg of the words "capital" and "premiums," as used in
the act, justify a construction that would allow the directors
of a mutual company to receive a cash premium ii lieu of a
premium note. This argument is founded on the idea, that
the word "premium" means a "cash premum," and the word
" capital" a "fund" absolutely devoted (like a stock capital) to
the payment of the debto of the corporati6n, and not merely
subject to the payment of tk debts on the mutual pnniple.
Tv this we answer1. 'That the act in question was drawn, by an unlpractice& hand, and words are used in it without a precise and
constant signification, so that the-meaning of the law-makers
is to be ascertained by the collocation of the words and the
context, and manifest intention of the Legislature.
0. Adopting this rile, it is manifest that the word "capitat".is used m a general sense, as embracing all the funds of
the association. In the 5th section, the deposit notes on
wlnh the business is to be commenced are said to be a"part

SUPREME COURT.
Unwn Insurance Company v. Hoge.

of the capital, looking to the future premium notes with the
five per cent. cash added, and if any investments be made
under section 8th, to those also as constituting the whole capita. In section 11th, it represents the whole capital in possesszon
of the associates at the time of organization, consisting of
"premiums," that is, "premium notes or engagements of insurance." In section 13th, it means the whole fund of the company, embracing (1) the premium notes on which the company commenced business, (2) those to be received afterwards, in the course of it4 business, (3) with the cash part
of the premium, or five per cent., in addition to the premium
note, and in the 21st section, it means the same thing as in
the 13th section, with the addition of a cash capital unied
under the provisions of that section.
3. So also the word "premium" is used in a general seise
to represent "the consideration of a policy," whether pau, as
in the case of a stock policy, or secured by a premium note, as
in the case of a mutual policy Such is its meaning, nec!ssarily, in the- 5th section, because the $100,000 is to be composed wholly of notes, and equally so in the 11th, because the
act iskdescribing precisely the same fund. Though, from a looseness of language, the act appears to regard the fund as composed
of the notes, OR the engagements of insurance,before theyhave been
consummated into notes, though the 5th section requires them
to have been perfected by and merged in notes, and in the 13th
section, the word "premiums" clearly represents the premium
notes, including the original $100,000, and such as have been
subsequently taken, with the five per cent. in cash added, to
make up the entire premium in any given case, and the word
means the same thing in the 21st section.
4. The above is a reasonable and natural construction, and
is to be preferred to one that would confound the two companies, and their practice and operations, would destroy the
principle of mutuality, which is the basis of the mutual companies, and lead to a constant violation of the 7th section of
the act.
POINT SEcoND.-There is no force in the pretence that the
definite sum, which is to be taken in lieu of a premium note, is

DECEM 3ER TERM, 1858.

43

Unon I=surance Cormpany v. Hoge.

really an equvaled for a premium note. This pretence is deceptive and fraudulent, and so transparently absurd as to deceive no one.
1. It can never be an eqwvalent for a premium note, unless
the sum is as large 'as that expressed in the premium note.
In the case I have supposed, it would be $100 on ai insurance
of $12000. Was it a supposable case that such a sum would
be paid, and were it within the spirit of the act, that would
be an eq alent, but the idea -that any sane man would ever
take an insurance in a mutual company, and pay for it -anything over the ordinary cash rates of a sound stock company,
is preposterous, and requires no answer. This must have
been well understood by the officers when they devised this
substitute for a premium note.
2. It was never the intention of those persons who procured
an amendment of their charters, and obtained by statute an
authority to do what this company has-done by usurpaon and
without authontyto do anything but a business on the plan of
stock companies, as well as the mutual. The premium note
was intended to be so large as to meet all possible contingencies, and no one was expected to have to pay the whole of it,
if the company was conducted prudbently. How, then, was it
expected that individuals would pay in cash any such sum?
What motive was there to pay over the ordinary stock rates?
See the Statutes cited in sub. 3, under Point First.
3. There can be no mistake in the *case of this company,
because the directors, who framed the by-laws, have stated
the definite sum to mean the ordinary stock rates in the
fundamental laws for the practical operation of the company.
POINT TmnRD.-Conceding that the receiving a definite sumin lieu of a premium note was a practice not authorized by
,he statute of 1849, and m violation of its provisions, the insertion of such a power in the charter would not legalize such
practice, especially as those who dealt with the company on
the plan of stock insurance had legal notice of the powers of
the mutual company.
1. Those who are insured on the basis -ofthe stock principle are chargeable with egal notie.of the powers of the corporation.

SUPREME COURT.
l~nzon Ineuarance Uompany v. Hoge.

a. The-act of 1849 is a publie act, of which all must take
notice, and the-act requires a copy of the charter to be filed
in the office of the Secretary of State, and of the county of
Montgomery, which is sufficient notice.
Dutchess Cotton Manuf. v.Davis, 14 John., 288, 245. See
the latter page.
b. The name of the company indicates that it was a mutual
znsurance company, and the by-laws and conditions attached
show the principle of assessment on which the premium notes
were liable, and a dealer-who knew that the company was a
mutual one was bound to take notice that-the officers of a mutual company, under the act had no -power to insure on the
plan of stock insurances.
c. All who deal with a corporation are bound to know the
powers of the cnrporation with which they deal or connect
themselves.
4 McLean's Rep., 8.
Root v. Goddard, '3McLean's Rep., 102, 276.
Mumma v. Potomac Co., 8 Peters's Rep., 287
Though not a technical estoppel, it is nevertheless notice.
2. The corporation was an artificial person with limited
powers, embracing only those expressed, and such as are necessary to carry into effect the expressed powers.
1 R. S. of N. Y., 599, 600, sees. 1, 2, 8.
2. Kent, 279, 299, their powers are to be strictly construed.
Angel and Ames on Corporations, (2d ed. N 64 to 67,
192, 193, 200.
Chitty on Contracts, 586, 539.
People v. Utica Ins. Co., 15.J R., 883.
Thomas v. Achilles, 16 Barb., 494, 495.
N. Y F Co. v. Ellery, 2 Cowen, '709, 699.
N. R. Ins. Co. v. Lawrence, 3 Wend. Rep., 574, 583, 482.
Beatty v. M. Ins. Co., John. R., 109, 114.
W., 31, 34.
Safford v. Wykof, 1 Hill, 11, 2 ib., 243.
Eng. L. and-Equity, 7, 505, 16 ib., 180, 30 ib., 120.
8. The corporation not only had no power tQ issue stock tpol-

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

45

UTnwn Inmurance Compan v. Hoge-

icies by. the act, but the doing of these acts was expressly
prohibitedby section 7 of the act, and wete vod for that reason.
Tracy v. Taliiadge,.(4th Kernan,. 179,) Selden, J. "It
has long been settled that contracts founded on an illegal
consideration," "or prohibited by some positive statute, are
void." "That a contract 'by a corporation which it has no
legal power to make, is voids and cannot be enforced, it would
seem difficult to deny."
Page 204, Comstock, to the same effect in the note.
Mr. Mygatt, for the defendant in error, stated that the claim
of the defendant m error was, that the assets of the company
were liable to pay pro rata all the liabilities.
The leading questions presented are:
1. WAg the cash policy of .insurance on which this action
was brought ultra vzres 2
2. Are the premium notes of the company capital stopk, and,
as such, liable to pay pro rata the' losses and liabilities of the
company?
POINTS AND ARGUMENT.
FnitST.-The issuing of policies by this company for a cash
advance premium was not unlawful. It was not the exercise of'
a power not granted or forbidden ly the act of April 10, 1849,
but it was the exercise of a lawful, a necessary, and a proper act.
1. This question was distinctly presented for the decision
of the Court of Appeals of lKew'York, in the case of White,
receiver, against Haight, which case was decided at the last
December term, and the judgment in .favor of the receiver
affirmed, on the ground that the note in that actioji formed
part of the original capital of $100,000, and was collectable
without any allegation of losses, and without- an assessment.
That case is reported in 16 N~ew' York Reports, -310, but the
opinion of Denio, 0. J., only is reported. Opinions were
written by two others of the then members of he Court of
Appeals, and this queition is debated by said two of-the members,-to wit: Mr. Justice Brown and Mr. Justice Shankland.
[The extracts from these two opinions, as cited by the counsel, are too long to be inserted.]

46

SUPREME COURT.
Unton Insurance Company v. Hoge.

It appears, from said opinions, that said justices regarded
tne payment of an advance cash premium, as the lawful and
proper exercise of'the powers.granted by the statute and the
charter, and as benefici9'to the members, and that, by the
well-known and continu d course of business of the company,
the policies issued therefor precluded the company from
repudiating these contracts issued to those who parted with
value upon the faith of, and in consideration of, their interest
in the company
It is claimed by the plointiff in error, that the aforesaid
opinions of Judges Brown and Shankland discussed questions
not material to the decision of the case before them, and not
decided in the Court of Appeals. It may be said that the reported opinion by Judge Demo does not debate the questions
here presented, as the court decided that case on a point not
material to this case. It may, however, be proper to state
that the opinions of Judges Brown and Shankland are referred
to as above, as it is respectfully submitted, that although that
case was decided on a point before coming to the questions
that were debated by Judges Brown and Shankland, yet that
the questions debated by them were in fact in that case, and
the opinions of these able judges are authority, if not decisive,
on the questions in this case.
2. This is not a mutual insurance company, with a stock branch
engrafted on it. It is purely a mutual insurance company, and as
such has power to issue policies of insurancefor a cash premium. or
premium note, or both.
This company was formed under a general law which was
passed at the next session of the Legislature after an amendment of the charter of the Albany County Mutual Insurance
Company By its charter, like to the Albany Company, it
expressly allows of the cash premium in the place of the prenilum note, or of both the cash premium and the premium
note.
In order to correctly examine this point, it is indispensable
well to understand the peculiar characteristics of mutual insurance companies. Stock companies insure at their own
risk, "but the leading principle of mutual insurance compa-

DECE1IBER TERM. 1858.
Unton

hurance Company v. Hoge.

nies is, that each person whose property is insured necomes a
corporator, or a member of the company"
Angel on Fire and Life Insurance, 45, sec. 10.
Susquehanna Ins. Co. v. Perviere, 7 Watts and S. Penn.
R., 348.
Liscomb v. Boston Mutual Fire Ins. Co., 9 Metcalf, 205.
"A mutual insurance company in its ongin was a body of
persons, each of whom was desirous of effecting an insurance,
and he agreed with the rest of the members to contribute his
premiums to a common fund, on the terms that he should be
entitled to receive out of that fund."
Dodeswell, 22.
Angell on Fire and Life Ins., 422, see. 413.
"The whole body becomes reciprocally bound to make good
the losses, and are literally mutual insurers." Ib.
Parsons says that there are "mutual companies in which
every one who is insured becomes thereby a member."
Parsons on Mercantile Law, 489.
:Reynolds on Life Assurance, p. 180' refers to the difficulty
of collecting assessments on -notes which are often of trifling
*amount, and are liable to be called on for frequent assessments, and then remarks "To obviate these objections,
another modification of the mutual system has been introduced by some companies, winch is for the assured to pay the
whole premium in cash."
"The giving of the premium note is not necessary to the
consummation of the contract of insurance."
Blanchard v. Waite, 28 Maine, 51.
This company was purely a mutual insurance, company
The case of the Utica Insurance Company v. Bristol, decided at the general term in the 5th district of New York, in
which case the opinion of the court is by Justices Allen and
Prat%was the case of a stock branch engrafted on a mutual
insurance company. That action was upon a subscriptivn to
the stock branch, and the charter in that caser was held to be
in conflict with the provisions of the law.
The opimon of Mr. Justice Pratt in that case shows that
said action was not on a premium note, but on a subscription

SUPREME COURT.
Unon Insurance Company v. Hoge.

to the stock branch. The cash capital in that company wae
not united with the premium and stock notes as security for
the members generally, for it was provided in that company
that this cash capital should not be held as security for or liable for the losses of the mutual company
This company had no such provision. The premium notes,
and cash paid for policies in lieu thereof, were alike capital
stock, and liable for the losses.
Mutual insurance companies were formed in Ohio ii 1844,
with charters like the one in question. In the Ohio Mutual
Insurance Company v. Marietta Woollen Factory, (3 Ohio State
Reports, new series, 348,) it was held, that in cases of losses
on policies issued on cash premiums, the cash fund must be
first exhausted to meet said losses, and then resort may be had
to the premium notes. The charter of that mutual insurance
company provided for the payment "of a certain definite sum
of money in full for such insurance, which said sum shall be
in lieu and place of a premium note," and the charter further
declares that this cash "fund, and the premium notes deposited
with the company, shall constitute the capital stock of the company, for the payment of losses and expenses."
This same question has been adjudicated in the Superior
Court of the city of New York. In the case of Tuckerman.
receiver, v. McLean, in the Superior Court of New York,
where the defence in an action on a premium note was, that it
was assessed to pay cash-policy losses. By the court, Duer,
Justice "This is clearly no defence. The company had the
right by statute and their charter to receive cash premiums, and
issue policies on them, and the defendant's note has been
greatly relieved by the practice. It was the best thing the
company could do. These notes are the basis of the transactions of the company, and they must be paid when the cash is
exhausted. The plaintiff is entitled to judgment."
In the said case, Tuckerman was receiver of the Cherry
Valley Mutual Insurance Company, a company with a charter
like the one in question, and the action was for an assessment
to pay cash-policy as well as premium-note-policy losses.
This question was also decided at the genera] term of the

DECEMBER TERM,.1858.

49

Unwn, Inurane b'Company v. Hoga

Supreme Court of New York, iul the sixth distrie., in the said
case of White, receiver, v. Haight; Justices Mason, Gray, and
Balcom, concurring in te decision.
Justice Harris held, in' Shaughnessy v. The Rensselaer Insurance Company, (21 Barb., -610-Supreme Couit,) that in a
company incorporated under the act of 1849, wlhich company
had issued policies for cash premiums, "that the deposit notes
were liable to assessment only when, after-applying the funds
of the company to the payment of the'losses, it-hould be found
aecessary."
The cash premiums had "been expended in tl~e payment of
osses and expenses, and thus relieving former members from
assessments upon their notes, and leaving others to be assessed
for the payment of subsequent losses."
So in the company under consideration. The cash premiums were expended.
3. This company had power to issue -policies of insurance
for a cash.premium.
The plaintiff in error's argument is, that these cash policies
engrafted a stock branch upon a mutual insurance company,
and that said cash policies should be repudiated as ultra
Vres.
Admit for the argument, that the act of April 10, 1849, contains no express authority to the corporation to issue policies
for a cash premium, it does not follow that the corporators are
not answerable for losses arsing from- saiq policies, in their
corporate capacity The company have received value for them
id cash, and it hardly comports with fair dealing that they
should seek to exonerae themselves from a debt on this account, contracted by and through their accredited directors.
It is not true that a corporation cannot bind the corporators
beyond what is expressly authorized in the act of incorpc ration.
There is power'to make policies of insurance, and if a series
of. such contracts, based on a cash premium, have been made,
openly and palpably within the knowledge of the corporators,
the public have a right to presume that they are within the
scope of the authority granted, unless it can be established that
cash zn hand s not as -goodas a premsum note.
VOL. XXI.

4

SUPREME COURT.
Unwn Insurance Company v. Hoge.

The Court of Appeals in New York say, in Conover v. The
Mutual Insurance Company of Albany County, (1 Comstock,
292,) "Incorporated companies, whose business is necessarily
conducted altogether by agents, should be required at their
peril to see to it that the officers and agents whom they eiploy, not only know what their powers and duties are, but that
they do not habitually, and as a part of their system of business,
transcend those powers. How else are third persons to deal
with them with any degree of safety?"
As it is the, object of all law to promote justice and honest
dealing, when that can be done without violating principle,
what principlc is violated by holding this corporation liable
for the contracts of its accredited agents, even if not expressly
authorized, when these contracts were entered into publicly,
and in such a manner as by necessity and irresistible implication to be wittin the knowledge of this company, and of the
corporators generally 9 The circumstance that the corporation
itself received the benefit of these cash premiums renders the
conclusion irresistible, that the corporation should pay these
cash losses from any and every available means.
The affairs of this company are, by its charter, to be managed by its director-, and the directors are "elected by persons
holding the policies of insurance in this company, or their
proxies, and one vote shall be allowed on"every one hundred
dollars insured."
The tenth article of the charter before referred to provides,
that "the directors may determine therates of insurance and
premium notes therefor," and "that any person applying for
insurance may pay such advance cash premium on the amount
insured as may be fixed by the company, and give no premium
note."
The eleventh section, which provides that the charter be
examined by the Attorney General, requires, if a mutual company, that it has the requisite capital, premiums, or engagements
of insurance to the extent of the $100,000. lNothing is here
said about premium notes, but the word premmum is used.
It was never intended that these companies should limit their
business to those who entered into the first agreements of in

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

51

UnoTn Insurance Company v. Hoge.

surance, but, as allowed in the ffrst section, the company was
formed to make insurance.
When the charter and act of incorporation and the statute
are silent as to what contracts a corporation may make, as a
general rule, it has power to make all such contracts as are
necessary and usual in the course of business, as means to en
able it to attain the object for which it was created.
Angel and Ames on Corpor., 2d Am. ed., 200, and cases
The creation of a corporation for a specified purpose implies
a power to use the necessary and usual means to effect that
purpose; and though their charters were entirely silent on the
subject, banks would necessarily be empowered to issue an,
discount promissory notes and bills of exchange, and insurance
companies to make contracts of indemnity-against losses by
fire.
Ketchum.v. The City of Buffalo, 21 Barb., 800.
Broughton v. Manch. Water Works Co. , 8 Barn. and Aid.,
11, 12.
Yarborough v. Bank of England, 16 East., 6.
XMurray v. East India Co., 5 Barn. and Ald., 204.
Edie et al. v. East India Co., 2 Burr., 1216.
Corporations are liable even for torts and tresIasses, but their
charter does not authorize them.
Beach v. Fulton Bank, 7 Cowen R., 485.
Life and Fire Ins. Co. v. IMerchants' Fire Ins. Co., 7 Wend.
R., 31.
"The case of Stoney v. The American Life Ins. Co. et al.
(11 Paige, 685) decides that the negotiable security of a corporation which upon its fapae appears to have been duly issued
by such corporation, and in conformity with'the provisions of
its charter, is valid, in the hands of a bona fide holder thereof
although such security was in fact issued for a purpose, and at
a place not authorized by the charter of the company, and in
violation of the laws of the State where itwas actually issued
When corporations "confine themselves to the purposes
and objects of their incorporation, they should not be deemed
as transcending, their authority, but should be regarded as
acting within the scope of those implied incidental powers

SUPREME COURT.
Unwn Insurance Company v. Hoge

necessary to the full and advantageous development of those
which are expressly given."
, Mead v. Keeler, 24 Barb. N. Y Sup. Ct. R., 24.
Where a statute authorizes a company to construct certain
works, as a harbor, it is to be presumed they have power to
execute all works incidental to their main purpose, and which
they deem necessary, provided they act bonafide.
Wrght v. Scott, (in House of Lords,) 34 Ing. Law and
Equity, 1.
"If the charter be wholly silent as to the power of the insurance company to give credit for premiums, and to take
notes in payment, such a power necessarily results from its
power to make insurances, and to enable it advantageously to
conduct its business."
McIntyre v. Preston, 5 Gilm. Ind. R., 48.
When by its charter a company is prohibited to insure on
property to an amount exceeding two-thirds of its value, yet
if the company voluntarily insure to a greater amount, without any fraud on the part of the insured, the policy is not
thereby void.
31 Maine, 220.
By the 21st section of the act, the company may "unite a
cash capita to any extent, as an additional securityfor the members,
over and above their premium and stock notes."
This word "premiums," as here used, establishes the right
of this company to receive advance premiums for policies.
The certificate of the Comptroller is, "that the company are
in possession of the capital, premiums," or "engagements
of insurance," as the case may be.
To constitute a mutual insurance company after the statute
capital of $100,000, it is not required that the premiums consist of premium notes, as assumed by this company
The 13th section of the act regards the premiums as the
capital stock of the company, for it reads "And if, upon due
examination, it shall appear to the Comptroller that the losses
and expenses of any company chartered on the plan of mutual
insurance, under this act, shall, during the year, have exceeded the premiums."

-DECEMBER TERM,- 1858.
Unon Inurance Company v. Hoge.

The word " premiums," as here used,. may consist of premium notes, or cash Raid for policies. The "premium," as
is a sum of money paid by the
defined by the early writers, "1
assured to the underwriters, in consideration -of his taking
upon himself a rk-the risk of having to indenmify the
assured from any loss that may be-'ustained by an exposureto the perils of the sea, and to -fire upon land, or the
event of death." Lord Mansfield-says "The underwriterreceives a premium for running the risk of indemnifSing-the
assured."
Tyne v. Fletcher, Cowp. R., 666.
Webster defines the word "premium," "The recom]pense
to underwriters for insurance, or for undertaking to indemnify for losses of any kind."
Bouvier defines "premium" "as the consideration paid b
the insured to the insurer, for making an insurance. It is so
called because it is paid pnwmo, or before the cotract shall
take effect."
In Hone and another, receivers, v. Allen & Paxson, reported in the note to Brouwer v. Appleby, (1 Sand. Sup. Ct.
R., 184,) Jones, Ch. J., says -The company purports to be
a mutual insurance. Originally, mutual insurance was where
all the insurers agreed to apportion all the losses among themThe learned Chief Justice says, further
selves ratably"
"1The system underwent various modifications: Notes were
dispensed with, to rely on premiums- only, or on insurances
agreed for, as soon as the company was ready to make them.
In ° this respect, the parties were left much to fix their own
standard."
Article 10 expressly allows this premium to be paid- in -a
definite sum in mpney, in full f'or said insurance, and in lieu
of a premium note.
The receipt of cash premiums is but the necessary exercise
of the corporate powers allowed by statute. There is no prohibition against taking the cash premiums, and would it be a
legitimate satisfaction of the law to deny a recgvery, and thus,
instead of punishing, to reward the wrong-doer, and that at
the expense of the innocent and injured creditors?

SUPREME COURT.
Unton Insurance Company v. Hoge.

In Beers v. The Phenix Glass Company, (14 Barb. N. Y
Sup. Ct., 863,) the court say
"It would be difficult if not impossible to specify every act
which might be necessary or useful to effectuate the objects
for which the corporation is created. The general principle
that corporations must confine their operations to their legitimate business, is sufficiently definite. It is not necessary, nor
would it be useful, to restrict them in the manner of conducting such business."
In the State of New York, the principle of mutual insurance
was sought to be worked out, not only by premium notes, and
by the payment of a cash advance premium, but, in the same
company, the premium on some of the policies is frequently
secured by the premium note, and on other policies by cash
paid in lieu of the note.
The act incorporating the Schoharie Mutual Insurance Company allowed the making of contracts of insurance "for such
term or terms of time and for such premium or consideration
as may be agreed on."
Session Laws of New York, 1831, p. 280, sec. 2.
The act to incorporate the American M1anufacturers' Mutual
Assurance Association also allowed contracts of insurance to
be made for "such premium and consideration as may be
agreed on."
Session Laws of New York, 1832, p. 129, see. 2.
The act incorporating the Washington Co. Mutual Insurance
Company also allowed contracts of insurance "for such premium or consideration as may be agreed on."
Session Laws of New York, 1834, p. 182, see. 2.
The word premium-notes finds no place in said acts, and
the last-named company issued more than 200,000 policies
of insurance.
See Comptroller's Reports on Insurance Companies.
The Albany County Mutual Insurance Company was incor
porated in 1836, (Session Laws of New York, 1836, p. 315,)
subiect to the same restrictions and limitations as the Jefferson
County Mutual Insurance Company, and was incorporated the
same year, and yet, in 1848, the Albany charter was amended

DE CEMBER TERM, 1858.

55

Unwn l.surancc Comwpany v. Hoge.

by allowing the payment of a cash premium in lieu of the premium note, which cash premium is made the primary fund
for the payment of losses and expenses, and both the cash
premium and the premium notes constitute the capital of the
company for the payment of losses and expenses.
Important is this amendment, as the charter in question assimilates thereto. Said amendment is as follows:
"S1Eo. 1. It may and shall be lawful for any person or persons applying for insurance in the Mutual Insurance Company
of the city and county of Albany, at his, her, or their election,
to pay to said company a certain definite sum of money in full
for such insurance, which said sum shall be in lieu and place
of a premium .note, and such person or persons shall not be
liable to said company, during the continuance of his, her, or
their policy, for any sum beyond the amount thus originally
paid.
"SEC. 2. Such sum or sums of money as shall be paid to
said company, as aforesaid, shall be retained as a fund for the
payment of losses and expenses which may happen or accrue
in and to said company, which said fund shall be exhausted
before a resort shall be had to assessments upon the premium
notes deposited with said company; and this said fund and the
premium notes deposited with said. company shall constitute
the capital of the company for the payment of losses and expenses."
Session Laws of New York, 1848, p. 66.
The universal course of business of over fifty companies
formed in the State of New Y.ork under this act, was to insure
for a cash premium.
The real question here is, whether this company, by its
agents and the consent of its corporators, could carry on its
business in any given mode, and act contrary to the general
course of business of such corporations, so long as it prove
profitable-to the company, and, when a disaster occurs, be allowed to shield themselves from liability by a resort to a more
than literal construction of their charter powers, which they
themselves had extended by a liberal construction -of its
terms.

SUPREME COURT. Unzn Iwrance Company v. Hoge.

It would seem that there could be but one answer; and such
is the uniform current of the more recent decisions upon the
subject.
The law of the Court of Appeals of New York, as applicable,
is well stated in the recent case of Curtis et al. v. Leavitt, (15
New York Reports, 9,) where the faith of promises and the
inviolability of contracts are maintained as follows.
Comstock, J. "Corporations, it is said, can act only in accordance with the law which creates them. But if law authorizes them to do acts specifically, and is silent as to the manner
and means of doing those acts, where is the restriction, except
such as the nature of the business implies?"
Brown, J "Can the corporation take to its own use the
moneys realized from third parties upon the faith of its validity,
and then repudiate the authority by which it was created? If
the act done was within the power of the corporation, it must
fall within the law of ratification and confirmation so universally applied to the conduct of those who maintain towards
each other the relation of principal and agent. This law
should apply with quite as much force to corporate bodies as
to natural beings, because, in respect to the latter, the principal may and often does act without the intervention of an
agent, and, in case of doubt, recourse may be had to the pnnpal himself. Not so with an artificial being. It can only act
by and through its officers."
Paige, J "Every corporation has certain powers and capacities, which are at common law incidental to its existence.
Among these are the powers to take and grant property, and
to contract obligations. (2 Kent's Com., 278, 15 Johns., 383,
4 Wheat., 568, 1 Kid. on Cor., 13, 69, 70.) These general
powers may be curtailed by the act of incorporation, and restrained and qualified by the nature and object of the-corporation. When the charter is silent as to the contracts -which a
corporation may make, it has, as incidental to its existence,
the power of making all such contracts as are necessary ancL
usual in the course of the business it -transacts, as a means to
attain the object for which it was created. (Ang. and A.
Corp., 83, 84, 245, 3d ed., 2 Kent's Com, 218, note c, 7th

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

57

Unwn Insurance Company v. Hoge.

ed., 15 John., 888, per Thompson, J, 1 Sand. Ch. R., 288,
289.")
"The general understanding in respect to the construction
*of a statute, and the usa.ge of all persons in a particular business in accordance with such understanding, is always regarded as of great weight in fixing the construction of such statute,
'conteriporanea exposio est optima, et forissara in lege.' (Broom's
Legal Maxims, 532.")
In the case of Eastern Counties Railway Co. v. Hawkes, in
the Hotise of Lords, the Lord Chancellor, (Lord Cranworth,)
and Lords Brougham, Campbell, and St. Leonards, concur in
opinion. (35 Eng. Law and Equity, 8.) The final opinion
concludes as follows
"I trust that this decision, and the decisions .of this House
during the present session, in the cases of the N(ational Exchange Company v. Drew, 2 Mfacq., (Sc. Ap. cas.,) 103, and in
Bargate v. Shortridge, 4 H. L., cas. 297, (s. c. 31 Eng. R., 1),
will place the powers and liabilities of directors and their companies, in niaking contracts and in dealing with third parties,
upon a safe and rational footing. They do not authorize directors to bind their companies by contracts foreign to the
purposes for winch they were established, but they do. bold
companies bound by contracts duly entered into by their
directors for purposes which they have treated as within the
objects of their acts, and which cannot clearly be shown not
to fall within them, and they further hold companies to be
bound by a continued course of dealiig by their 4irectors with
third persons in relation to their shares, although that mode of
dealing is contrary to the regulations of their deed of management. I hope that we shall have no other cases before us,
where the defence of a company rests upon the want of power
to make a contract which the directors deliberately, entered
into, and under which they took a benefit, or upon the irregularities of their own proceedings."
POINT SEco"; The premium notes of this company constitute its capital stock, andas such, are liable to pay all the
losses and liabilities thereof.
It is stated in the plea "that there are no assets to pay

SUPREME COURT.
UTnwn Iaurance Company v. Hoge.

the losses of said company, other than the premium notes,
and that the avails of said premium notes will not pay the
losses arising on the policies of insurance, which policies were
founded on premium notes."
As there are no assets to pay the liabilities of this company,
except the premium notes, and as the premium notes will not
pay the premium-note-policy losses, the question is distinctly
presented for the decision of this court Are said premium
notes the capital of the company, and, as such, liable to pay
pro rata all its liabilities?
This question has been frequently determined in the courts
of New York, in suits brought by the receivers of insolvent
insurance companies.
The company under consideration is admitted in the plea to
be insolvent.
By the 17th section of the act annexed to the plea, this corporation is subject to "all the provisions of the revised statutes
in relation to corporations, so far as the same are applicable."
By 2 R. S. of N. Y., 469, 1st ed., see. 69 "If there shall be
any sum remaining due upon any share of stock subscribed in
said corporation, the receiver shall immediately proceed and
recover the same."
In the case of Brown, receiver, v. Crooke & Fowks, 4
Comst., 51, the defendants, after the giving of their notes, took
out no policies, and resisted the payment, on the ground that
there was no consideration, held, that the notes were valid, and
that the receiver of the company, which had become insolvent,
was entitled to collect the amount thereof, to be applied in the
liquidation of losses and liabilities.
The Supreme Court and Court of Appehls of the State of
New York have determined these premium notes to be the
capital stock of the company
In Hyde, receiver, v. Beardsley, the opinion of the Court
was delivered by Shankland, presiding justice. He says
"The deposit notes of the members of these mutual insurance
companies constitute the capital stock of these companies."
Van Buren v. Chenango Co. Mut. Ins. Co., 12 Barbour a
IL, at page 676.

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

59

Urwn Insurance Conilany v. Hoge.

At page 674 of the case last cited, the court, by MANason, J.,
say- "It has been adjudged in the Supreme Court of Pennsyl
vania that the deposit or premium notes of these mutual insurance companies are to be regarded as the capital stock of
their companies, and the same has been held by this court in
several- cases which have been before it in reference to this
same company. This was so adjudged in the case of Hyde,
receiver, v. Beardsley, and Hyde, receiver, v. Mfarvin, decided
at the May general term, 1848. These cases have been followed by several adjudications since."
In the case of Hyde, receiver, v. Sawyer, decided in the
Supreme Court of New York in the 6th. district, the Court by
Morehouse, J.
"The following principles have heretofore been debated,
and fully decided and settled by this court:
"First. That every person effecting insurance in a mutual
company becomes thereby a member of the corporation, and
continues such member, not only during the period he shall
remain insured by the corporation, but until he has contributed
his proportion of all losses and expenses which accrued durig
the term of his insurance, or until the surrender of his policy
upon the payment of his portion of all losses and expenses to
which he was at any time liable to contribute as a member."
"Second. That the premium notes of the members of the
corporation, deposited with the treasurer upon effectinginsurance, together with the per cent. immediately paid, constitutes
the capital stock of the company, consecrated to the mutual
security of the insured, and all persons with whom the company may contract liabilities, and that no corporator can withdraw the same, or any part thereof, from the corporation, so
as to release himself from any existing or contingent liability
to pay the whole or any proportionate share of Ins deposit
note."
It has been decided in Pennsylvania that the deposit or premium notes of a mutual insurance company are a part of its
capital. Such was the decision in Rhinehart v. The Alleghany
Co. Mut. Ins. Co., (1 Barr Penn., 359,) and the Court of Appeals of New York, m Hyde, receiver, v. Lynde, (4 Comst.,

SUPREME COURT.
Unnwn Insurac Company v. Hoge.

391,) by Bronson, Ch. J "I agree with the Supreme Court,
that the deposit or premium notes are to be regarded as capital for the security of those who may deal with the company "
As these premium notes are a security for all who may deal
with these companies, and as this company, as appears by the
pleadings, has issued more policies fbr a cash advance premium than for premium notes, and has received forty-three
thousand dollars for said cash policies, and expended the same
in payment of the general liabilities of said company, common
justice and mutuality would seem to require that said premium
notes be applied equally to pay all the just creditors of this
company-

Finally, the cash-premium-policy creditors of these New
York companies, many of whom reside in Missouri, Illinois,
Ohio, Virginia, and Pennsylvania, and most of whomare nonresidents of New York, and whose interest in this and other
like companies to an amount of more than one million of dollars
is to be determined by the decision of this case, invite the several members of this high court to an examination thereof.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the northern district of New York.
The suit was brought against the defendants on a policy of
insurance against fire, in the sum of $2,500, upon a paper-mill,
machinery, and stock, of one R. K. Kounsler, of the State of
Virginia, the property situate in that State. The defendants
are incorporated under the laws of the State of New York, and
the place of business at the village of Fort Plain, an interior
town of that State. The policy and all interest under the same
have been duly assigned to the plaintiff.
There is no question in the case upon the loss, or upon the
preliminary proofs, the defence being placed exclusively upon
a defect of authority in the defendants to issue the policy The
act of the Legislature of New York, passed April 10, 1849,
under which they were incorporated, provided, section 1, that
any number of persons, not less than thirteen, might associate
and form an incorporated- company, among other things to

DECEMBER 'TERM, 1858.
TUon 'Insurance Company v. Hoge.

make insurance on dwellings, houses, &c., agairst loss or damage by fire, section 3, that these persons should file in the
office of the Secretary of the State a declaration, signed by them,
expreAssing iheir intention to form a company for transacting
the business of insurance, which declaration should comprise
a copy of the charter proposed to be adopted by them, and requirng notice of their intention to be published in a newspaper a given number of weeks. Section 4 provides for opening
books of subscription to the capital stock, and that in case the
'business of the company was to be conducted on the plan of
.mutual insurance, then to open books to -receive propositious
and enter into agreements in the manner afterwards specified,
which. m substante is, that the company shall not commence
business until agreements shall have been entered into for
insurance, the premiums on which shall amount to one hundred thousand dollars, and notes have been receivedin advance
for the premiums on suchrisks, payable at the end of or within
twelve months from date, which notes shall be considered a
part of the capital stock, and shall be deemed-valid, negotiable.
and collectable, for the purpose of paying losses or otherwise.
Section 11, that the charter of'the company should be examined by the Attorney General of the State, and if found in accordance with the requirements of the act, and not inconsistent with the Constitution or laws of the State, he should certify the same to the Comptroller of the State, and thereupon

the Comptroller should institute an examination to ascertain
if the company had received, and had in its actual possession,
the capital, premiums, &c., to the full extent required by the
act; and upon.a certificate to this effect by the Comptroller,
filed in the office of the Secretary of State, this officer should
furnish the company-with a certified copy of the charter and
certificates, which, upon being filed in the office of the clerk
of the county in which the company is located, shall be its
authority to commence business and issue policies.
By section 10 it is made the duty of the corporators to declare
in the charter the mode and manner in whichthe corporate
owers conferred by the general act are to be exercised, and
y section 12 the corporators, tristees, or directors, as the case

SUPREME COURT.
Unon Insurance Company v.,Hoge.

may be,.shall have power to make such by-laws, not inconsist
ent with the Constitution or laws of the State, as may be
deemed necessary for the government of its officers and the
conduct of its afairs.
By the fifth section of the charter formed under this general
act, it is provided that the rights, powers, &c., conferred by
law on the company, shall be vested in and exercised by a
board of directors, to consist of thirteen persons, to be elected
by persons holding the policies of insurance in the company
or their proxies, and one vote shall be allowed on every one
nundred dollars insured. The eighth section of the charter provides that the rates of insurance shall be fixed and regulated
by the company; and premium notes therefor shall be received
from the insured, and shall be paid at such time or times and
in such sum or sums as the company shall from time to time
require, and any person applying for insurance, so electing,
may pay a cash premzum, in addition to a premium note, or a
definite sum m money, to be fixed by the company, in full of said
insurance and in lieu of a premium note.
The policy in question was issued on the payment of a cash
premium, under this eighth section of the charter, the insured
paying a gross sum of fifty-six dollars and twenty-five cents
for the insurance of his paper-mill and stock to the amount of
$2,500 for one year.
The ground taken in the defence is, that, according to the
general act under which the defendants were organized, they
were empowered to make contracts and issue policies of insurance to such persons only as became members of the company
by giving premium notes, and that the eighth section of the
charter, providing for the payment of the premium in cash,
was without authority, and the policy thereforp void.
It is stated in the plea upon which the quebtion in the case
is raised, that from the time the company began business (August, 1850) till June, 1858, when it became insolvent, over two
thousand policies were issued, founded upon premium notes,
and over two thousand five hundred founded upon cash premiums; and that the amount of forty-three thousand dollars was
received by the company for policies issued upon cash premiums.

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

68

Unton Insurance Company v. Hoge.

The general act, conferring the power upon companies organized under it to make contracts of insurance against fire and issue policies, provides for a certain amount of capital, ($100,000,)
secured by premium notes upon engagements of insurance entered into by the companies, as a condition to the right of comrmencing the business of insurance. This capital, thus obtained,
is essential to a complete organization under the act; for, without it, the corporation is forbidden to enter upon the-business
of insurance.
These preliminary engagements and the giving of premium
notes -were designed as an immediate security to persons who,
confiding in the responsibility of the company, should make
application for insurance on its going into operation.
The notes thus constituting capital are to be made payable
at or within a year from their-date, they may be made payable,
therefore, within the terms of the act, on demand, or at any
short period, and they are-made negotiable and col]ectable
for the payment of any losses which may accrue in the business
of insurance or otherwise. And it has been held in the Court
of Appeals, in New York, that they are collectable by Ihe company, irrespective of losses, or assessments to pay losses. (16
New York R., 810, 2 Smith R.)
Now, although the general act provides for premium notes
upon these preliminary engagements of insurance to -be consummated on the organization of the company, and with a
view to capital upon which to begin the business of insurance,
there is no provision to be found in it prescribing the mode or
manner in which premiums shall be paid or secured after the
company has become orgaized and commenced operations.
That. seems to have been left to be regulated m the charter
formed under the act.
The provision prescribing the giving of notes in advance for
premiums, with a view to create capital, has no necessary relation to the subject of premiums to be received by'the company after its organization, and in the course of conducting
its ordinary business. The act had in view a different object
in requiring the giving these notes, and provided specially
for their disposition and. use with reference thereto. They

64

SUPREME COURT.
Unum Insurance Company v. Hoge.

are made a part of the. capital stock of the company, and negotiable and collectable for the payment of losses or otherWise, and, as we have seen, collectable as such capital, irrespective of loss or assessment for losses, and as they may be
made payable on demand, or at a short day, are convertible
into money, according to the decision in the Court of Appeals
of New York, immediately on the company's becoming organized and ready for business.
Even if this provision could be regarded as bearing upon
the subject- of premiums after the organization of the company, it would furnish but feeble support to the argument
against cash premiums, the difference being simply between
cash and a note payable and collectable immediately According to the act, and construction given to it in the case referred
to, these notes have no necessary existhnce after the organization of the company They may then be converted into money
They seem to have been made necessary under this system of
insurance while the company was in the process of organiza
tion, by way of furnishing the incipient amount of capital required by the act.
Tt is argued, however, that the company in question is a
mutual insurance company, as declared -by the act, that, according to this system, the insured must be a member of it,
and that a person insured upon a cash premium, without any
further liability, cannot be a member. This argument is not
well founded, either upon principle or authority Admitting
that the insured must be a member of the company, he is made
so by the payment of the cash premium. The theory of a
mutual insurance company is, that the premiums paid by each
member for the insurance of his property constitute a common
fund, devoted to the payment of any losses that may occur.
Now, the cash premium may as well represent the insured m
the common fund as the premium note, and this class of companies has been so long engaged in the business of insurance,
it may well be that they can determine, with sufficient certainty for all practical purposes, the just difference in the rates
of premium between cash and notes. These mutual companies, possessing the authority contained in the eighth section

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

65

Unton Inurance Company v. Hoge.

of this charter, namely, to take cash premiums or premium
notes, are, at the present day, in operation in several of the
States, and it has never been supposed that the mutual principle has been tliereby abrogated.
3 Ohio R., 348, N. S.
It has also been argued, that inasmuch as the defendants
have been organized upon the principle of a mutual insurance
company, its business must be conducted, as it respects the
premiums to be received, according to the plan of mutual
companies previously chartered in the State of New York. If
the previous companies were re.quired. by their charters to receive premium notes, andnot cash, then this requirement distingauihes them from the one before us. If their charters contained no such provison, then they were left, like the present
one, to regulate the mode of payment at discretion. Besides,
mutual companies upon both plans h4d been chartered by the
Legislature of New York previous to the act of 1849, and
hence no inference can be drawn, as it respects the charters.
of previous companies,, from the unexpressed intent of the
Legislature -in this act, if otherwise admissible.
The true answer, however, to this argument, we think, is,
that in the absence of any reference to previous charters, by
which the provisions of the same might have been incorporated
in the present one, the court must look to the law itself for the
purpose of. expounding its provisions and ascertaining the intent of the Legislature.
The general act prescribed the outlines of the systerd, and
all the conditions and guards that were deemed essential to the
security of persons applying for insurance, leaving the details
and nterior.regulations to be arrangediand determined by the
company in their charter. large powers were conferred, in
general terms, as in the 10th section, "to declare in the charters" "the mode and.manner in which the 'corporate powers"
given under and by virtue of this act are to be exercised,"
and again; in the 12th section, the company "shall have
power to make such by-laws" "as may be deemed necessary
for the government of its officers and the conauct of its affairs."
And, besides these general powers, inasmuch as the company
VOL. xxI.

5

SUPREME COURT.
Leggett et a?. v. Humphreys.

is incorporated for the express purpose of insurance of property
against fire, in the absence of any prescribed mode of payment
of premiums, the power to prescribe it by the company is
necessarily implied*, otherwise, the object for which it was

created would be defeated.
This question has been indir-ctly before several of the courts
of New York, and in all of them, so far as any opinion has
been expressed, as I understand, it has been in favor of the
validity of these policies.
The practical construction of this act of 1849 by the public
officers of the State, including the Attorney General, who were
required to supervise the preliminary steps made necessary to
the organization of the company, and to certify that it had
conformed to the provisions of the act, and the latter officers
especially, that the charter was in accordance with it, is deserving of consideration., Under the construction thus given,
numerous companies have been organized with charters like
the present, providing for cash premiums, or premium notes,
at the election of the insured, and an extensive business of
insurance carried on in New York and several of the sister
States, and, although this practical construction cannot be
admitted as controlling, it is not to be overlooked, and perhaps should be regarded as decisive in a case of doubt, or
where the error is not plain.
The judgment of the court below is affirmed.
Mr. Justice DANIEL dissents, on the ground of want of jurisdiction.
ToMAs LEGGETT, JUNIOR, SAMUEL SMITH, AND SMITH LAWRENCE, APPELLANTS, v. BENJAMIN G. HUMPHREYS.
There Was a suit brought in the Circuit Court of the United States for the southern district of Mississippi, against a sheriff and his sureties upon the sheriff's
official bond, in which judgment was given for the defendant. Being brought
to this court by writ of error, the judgment was reversed, and a mandate went
down, directing the Circuit Court to enter judgment for the plaintiffs. (See 2
Howard, 28.)
Whilst the suit was pending i this court, judgment against the sheriff and his
sureties was given in a State court, and execution was issued against one of

