DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

493

Lea v. Polk County Coppe Compoany.

sued were citizens of the State, and were jointly bound with
those who were citizens of other States, and who did not voluntarily appear, the plaintiff had a right to prosecute his suit
to judgment against those who were served with process; but
such judgment or decree shall not prejudice other parties not
served with process, or who do .notvoluntarily appear.'
N'ow, it is-too clear for controversy, that the act of 1839 did
intend to change the chart cter of the parties to the suit. The
plaintiff may sue in the Circuit Court any part of the defendants, although others may be jointly bound by the contract
who are citizens of other States. The defendants who are
citizens of other States are not prejudiced by this procedure,
but those on whom process has been served, and who are made
amenable to the jurisdiction of the court.
And in regard to those whose rights are in no respect affected by the judgment or decree, it can be of no importance
of what'States they are citizens, If one of the defendants
should be a citizen of the same State with the plaintiff, no
jurisdiction could be exercised as between them, and no prejudice to the rights of either could be done.
The plea to the jurisdiction seems not to be well taken, and
it cannot be sustained.
In the case of Hill v. Smith and others, decided at the present term, this court held that the demurrer filed to the counts
on the guaranty did not bring up the validity of that instrument for the action -of the court, and that it must be specially
pleaded, with suitable averments. And the court reversed the
judgment, and remanded it to the Circuit Court, with leave,
on the l a.yment of costs, to move to amend the -pleadings, so
as to raise the questions on the guaranty. The same order is
made in the present case.
Judgment reversed.
WILLIAM

P. LEA, APPELLANT, v. THE POLK COUNTY COPPER
COMPANY ET AL.

The certificate of probate oC a deed in Tennessee did not say that the witness
swore that the grantor acb'uowledged it on the day of its date. But as the cer-

SUPREME COURT.
Lea v. Polk County Copper Company.
tificate said that the grantor acknowledged it for the purposes therein contained, the probate is covered by an act passed in 1846.
Where a grant conveyed the legal title in 1842, and innocentpurchasers paid for the
property, and took legal conveyances for it, with an honest belief that they were
dealing for and acquiring a legal title from the true owner, a claimant of the
equity of the patent cannot set it up to overthrow the purchase.
There was nothing in'the case to cause suspicion in the minds of these purchasers.
Three letters were added in the patent to the original name of the patentee. But
the register did this in the course of his official duty, and, as this court believe,
honestly; if the purchasers had gone into the inquiry, the presumption would
have been that the register did his duty.
These innocent purchasers might properly buy up an outstanding title.
Where a person was in possession, this was sufficient notice to a claimant of an
adverse title; and whether the deed under which this person claimed was registered or not, was of no importance to the claimant.
The act of limitations of the State of Tennessee protects persons in possession of
land under. the following circumstances:
1. They must have had seven years' possession of land granted by the State.
2. They must have held or claimed the land by virtue of a deed of cunveyance,
or other assurance, purporting to convey an estate in fee simple.
f. No claim by suit in law or equity, effectually prosecuted, should have bden
set up, or made to said lands, within that time..
Under the-second head, an unregistered deed is sufficient to constitute the bar.
The deed, Xvhen recorded, related back to its date.
The possession of several persons in succession, claiming under the same title,
was the same possession; and the evidence shows that the persons claiming
under the statute were in possession for the required period of time.
Courts ofjustice lend a very unwilling ear to statements of what dead mer have
said.
The allegation that the possession was fraudulent, under a fraudulent grant and
iraudulent deed, is not sustained by the evidence. Whether the deed which
purported to convey an estate in fee simple was void or not is immaterial, as
the act of limitation intended to protect possession held under such deeds. The
adverse possession was notice to everybody of the existe-ce of the claim.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the eastern district of Tennessee.
It was a bill filed by Lea for the purposes stated in the opinion of the court, where the facts of the case are also given.
It was argued by XMr. Campbell and Mir. Stanton for the appellant, and by Mr. Smith and Mr. Lyon. for the appellees, on
which side there was also a brief by Mr. Maynard.

DEOEMBER TERM, 1858.

495

Lea v. Polk County oCper Company.

The points made by the counsel are noticed and commented
on in the opinion of the court.
OATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
There *stoodon the record book an entry for 80 acres' in the
name of William P. Lea, No.5,446, dited April 5, 1842.
A patent issued, founded on this entry, dated 21st August,
1842, No. 5,744.
This patent is in the name of William Park Lea. It was
signed by the Governor, countersigned by the Secretary of
State, and sealed with the great seal of the State.
As originally filled up, it was in the name of William P.
Lea, and was altered to William Park Lea, by adding the letters "ark" to the P. This was done by the register of the
land office, whose duty it was to prelyare" the patent for the signatures of the Governor and Secretary; and the adt of affixing
the great seal to it, which gave it validity as against the State,
divested her title, and vested it in the grantee, on the patent
thus executed being delivered to him.
William Park Lea and Villiam Pinkney Lea wrote their
names alike, William P. Lea; the latter always, and the former
frequently, although he often signed his name William Park
Lea. The register added the letters "ark"to the middle name,
to distinguish between them, as both had entered lands in the
entry taker's office, and confusion prevailed as to who was the
proper owner. This is the effect of the register's evidence. In
filling up grants Nos. 6,260, 6,258, and 5,764, they were made
out in the name of William Park Lea; but the register scraped
out the letters "ark," and issued the patents in the name of
William P. Lea, because the lands had been: entered by William Pinkney Lea.
No.5,764 of these- patents was filled up on the same day
(21st August, 1842) that the one (NiTo. 5,744) here in dispute
was filled up, and the letters "ark" added to the letter P; the
the other-two (Nos. 6,260 and 6,258) were filled up December
8th, 1842. Five other patents were filled up properly in the
name of William P. Lea. This was all done in the latter six
months of 1842, and the grants were founded on entries made
Mr. Justice

SUPREME COURT.
Lea v. Polk County Cop~er Com~pany.

in April of that year, in the Ocoee land office. The respective
claimants were related to each other, and familiarly known to
the register. The entries had all been made and were recorded in the name, "William P. Lea."
That this was honestly done by the register, is not open to
dispute. He has given a deposition in great detail, and accounts for his course of proceeding entirely to our satisfaction,
so far as his integrity is concerned.
This patent (No. 5,744) the bill seeks to have reformed so as
to stand in the name of William P. Lea, the complainant, and
to be used in an action of ejectment pending in the court
below, by the complainant, against the respondents; and,
secondly, if said grant shall be found to have been issued to
the person not entitled to the land, that then the court will
divest the title of the respondents, and vest it in the complainant, so that he may ise the decree on the trial of his
action of ejectment.
8. The bill also prays, that the court may remove impending
clouds from the complainant's title by declaring all the alleged
titles of the respondents, or either of them, void, and direct
the possession of said lands to be surrendered to the complainant, together with a prayer for further and general relief.
To the relief sought, among other defences, (set up in theic
answers,) the respondents rely on the fact that they claim under one John Davis, who purchased from William Park Lea,
and took title by a deed in fee with a general warranty of title
for the land in dispute, and that Davis, their vendor, purchased
and paid for the land to said William Park Lea, without any
notice or knowledge that the complainant had any equity in
the land, or set up claim thereto.
This deed is produced, dated June 18th, 1846, and appears to
have been duly executed by William Park Lea, and the consideration money was paid to him by John Davis. It is not pretended that John Davis had any notice of the complainant's
claim when the deed was executed; the complainant had then
no knowledge himself that he had any interest in the land.
One objection to this deed is, that it was not duly proved,
and could not be lawfully registered according to the laws of

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

497

Lea v. Polk County Comer Comnpany.

Tennessee.

In the certificate of probate of Elias Davis, one

of the subscribing witnesses, the clerk does npt-say the witness
swore that the grantor acknowledged the same on the day it
bears date.- The other witness so proves. Now, as the deed
shows th6 date, and the certificate of probate says the grantor
acknowledged it'for the purposes therein contained, the probate is covered by the provisions of the act of 1846, (ch. 78,
Nicholson's Statute Laws, 242.)
Caldwell, Keith, & Mastin, purchased from John Davis .in
the year 1852, paid the purchase-money, ($6,000,) and took' a
deed in fee simple,with a covenant of general warranty of title
for the land in dispute; aAd they also rely. on the plIea that
they were bona .fide purchasers of the legal title, or what purported to be so; and this allegation is established by the proof,
unless it be true that-the letters "a&k," crowded after the letter P, in William Park Lea's name, at the various places that
this alteration is found in the patent, was sufficient to put tie
purchasers on-inquiry. Now, if the had inquired of the register, he could.only have told them that he put the letters there
-in the course of his official duty; but when, he could not say,
this being what he proves here. Then the presumption comes
in, that, as a public officerthe register did his duty, and he
who impeaches the act as illegal must prove the allegation.
On this assumption, the register illed up the patent as it is
now found, before the Governor signedit, and the-seal of State
was attached-that is to say, when the patent bear's date.
Then, again, all tie incipient steps authorizing the register
to issue the grant, the Governor to sign it, and the Secretary
to attach the great seal, are presumed as having been regular;
nor was the purchaser required to look behind the patent.
(Bagnell v. Broderick, 13 Peteks, 448.)
The bill of necessity admits that the legal title was vested in
William Park Lea by the. grant as it now stands; as, on any
other assumption, the complainant would have his remedy at
law, and must be turned' out of court. The title has thus
stood since 1842; important rights have grown up 'under it,
with which a court of equity-cannot interfere, on general principles of justice. - (1 Story's Com. on Equity, sec. 64, c. 64, d.)
82
VOL. xx

SUPREME COURT.
Lea v. Polk County Copper C-ompany.

We mean to say, that if the equity conferred by the entry was
in William Pinkney'Lea, and the patent issued in the name
of William Park Lea, and the Mining Company, or those
under whom they claim, have innocently and ignorantly purchased and paid for the property, and took legal conveyances
for it, with an honest belief that they were dealing for and acquiring a legal title from the true owner, then the complainant
cannot be heard to set up his equity behind the grant to overthrow the purchase. (1 Story's Equ., 454.) And so the respondents, the Mining Company, might buy in the legal title
of William Park Lea after they had notice, if they were innocent purchasers, holding under John Davis, and Mastin, Keith,
& Caldwell. (1 Story Equ., s. 411.)
But it is insisted that the deed from Lea to Davis was not
registered, and fraudulently concealed from the complainant,
so that he could not proceed to assert his rights. Davis had
possesgion of the land when he took William Park Lea's deed,
claiming for himself, and adversely to all others; and he so
continued in possession till he sold the land in December,
1852. This adverse possession was in itself notice that he
held the land under a title, the character of.which the complainant was bound to ascertain. (Landis v. Brant, 10 How.,
375.)
Furthermore, Caldwell, Keith, & Mastin, purchased from
Davis in December, 1852; they caused the deed from William
Park Lea to Davis, and the one from the latter to them, to be
duly registered, without having any knowledge of the complainant's claim, and without the existence of any circumstance to put them on inquiry respecting it.. They were clearly bona fide purchasers of a legal title, that the complainant
cinnnot assail in equity.
2. The respondents rely on the act of limitations of the
State of Tennessee as a protection to their title and, possession.
The act declares "that where any person shall have had seven
years' possession of any lands which have been granted by this
State, holding or claiming the same by virtue of a deed of conveyance or other assurance, purporting to convey an estate in
fee simple, and no claim by suit-in law or equity, effectu-

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

499

Lea v. Polk County Copper Campany.

ally prosecuted, .shall have been set up or made to said lands
within the aforesaid time, then, and in that case, the person or
persons, their heirs or assigns, so holding possession, shall be
entitled to keep and hold possession of such quantity of land
as shalf be specified and described in his deed, &e., iT preference to, and against all, and all manner of person or persons'
whatever.".
By the settled construction of the foregoing act, an unregistered deed is'a sufficient title on which the bar can be founded;
and'when Jobn Davis's deed from"William Park Lea'was recorded, it. related to its date, and' was good to draw the better
title 'to it by force of the statute..
The pogsessions of John Davis, and Caldwell, Keith, & Mas-"
tin, made 6ne possession; and if the two wgre continuous for the
whole -term of se-ven Years, then the bar was formed, and the
defe-dce conplte.. This brings us to the fact,.of actual possession held by r1avis, for after he sold to Caldwell, Keith, & Mastin, no bne disputes their actual possession.
Davis phirchased the improvements on the land from Wallace, 25th February, 18.42, for the sum of 'forty dollars; and
by the agreement, Walldce was to hold-under Davis and occupy the pre *sr
.i three years, which Wallace proves he did.
He then left. the. place, and Wilson Abercrombie went. into
possession nndei Davis, aid occupied the cabin one year. It
being in the. midst -ofa'small field which was annually cultivhted in grain crops,' Davis removed the cabin beyond the
field, and put it uagain. On the forty-acre lot, and Abercrombie oc.cupied it alother, year. He was succeeded by Bailey
McCoy as tenant of the. cabin under Davis; McCoy occupied'
it for a ye.ar or more. Wallace's field could not have included
mor6 than 'some.three acres, and had an orchard of peach trees
on it. Atertlie cbin was removed, Davis enlarged the field,
and extendedit acioss-the 'southern line of the forty-acre lot,
and also enlarged:i. from tile to time, by small clearings at
the other end, (which Wet! made for tirnip patches,) until the
field inciude& alout tw'elve acres, and which was annually cultivated by Davis, whose iesidepce was within a few hundred
yards of the field,,on the adjoining section of land. This field

SUPREME COURT.
Lea v. Polk County Coffer Cornany.

was obviously an important part of his plantation. That por
tion of the twelve-acre field lying on the forty-acre lot em
braced,- when this suit was brought, about five acres. Mann,
the county surveyor, who run the lines of the forty-acre lot, in
September, 1855, so states. He proves that the debris aud
ground plan of the cabin Wallace built and occupied were
quite apparent; that the peach trees were there, and that the
old and worn land was plainly distinguishable from that more
recently cleared up, and which was on its different sides.
To overcone the evidence of continued possession on the
part of Davis, two witnesses were produced by the complainant, to wit: Crawford Brasweli and Jesse Shubird. The
former swears that he resided in Ducktown from June, 1845,
to October, 1850; that he knew John Davis, and the place
Wallace improved. "I at one time (says he) purposed purchasing that eighty acres where the Wallace improvement was.
Davis told me that he had only the occupant of Luther Wallace; that he did noi own the land, and that he had moved the
improvements off to another place; and, having asked him who
owned the land, he stated it was entered by a man by the
name of Lea. lie stated he had moved off the house and fruit
trees, and I think he also named the time." Says he thinks
the conversation took place in July, 1848.
In answer to another question, the witness says: " Mr. Davis
showed me where he had moved the house from, and I understood he had moved all the improvements off that place, and
the stock was running on the land that had been enclosed, and,
if any of the fencing was left, I did not notice it. The place
was grown up very much with bushes. There might have
been some rotten rails scattered where the fence was put, lying
among the bushes and saplings."
This is represented, also, as having taken place in July,
1848; and the witness swears that, in the succeeding August,
Davis showed him where the Wallace house had stood. He
was interrogated, on the part of the complainant, as follows:
Please state whether or not you afterwards heard John Davis
set up claim to the Wallace eighty-acre tract; and if so, state
when it was, and fnlly what he said to you on the subject.

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

501

lea v. Polk County Coppr Company.

Answer. In the winter of 1849, there was a man there from
Bradley county, looking at Davis's land, and talking of buying him out. I happened at Davis's at the time,' and he requested me not to mention the conversation to any person,
that had passed between us, about the land; that if he sold his
land to that man, he should sell the Wallace place also.
Question by same. Please state whether that was the'flrst
time you heard him assume to own thq -eighty-acre Wallace.
tract.
Answer. He did not- profess to own it then, but said he
should sell it with the balance, if he sold at all.
Interrogatoryby .shme. State whether or not-John Davis had
the Luther Wallace place enclosed at any time; and if so, s ate
when he had it done.
Answer. If he had it enclosed at any time, it was since I lef
that country.
To the cross-interrogatories, the witness stated:
Do you say there was no land on the Wallace tractenclosed
and in cultivation during the years 1848, 1849, and 1850?
Answer. None in 1848, and none afterwards that I know of.
Are you acquainted with the boundaries of the Wallace
land, and can you say, positively, that there was no land on
said tract in cultivation during the aforesaid years?
Answer. I was not acquainted with the lines of the tract, and,
if there was any in cultivation on the tract, I did not know it.
Can you, then, say positively that no part of the field, about
where the old Wallace house stood, was in cultivation during
the time mentioned?
Answer. lNo part of it was in cultivation during the time I
lived there.
In your answer to complainant's sixth question, you say he
(John Davis) stated that Lea had entered the land. State where
that conversation took place, when; and if any person was
present, give the name or names.
Answer. This conversation took place at Davis's mill, in the
month of July, 1848, and there was no person present.
'In your answer to complainant's third question, you say that
John Davis told you he had only the occupant right, which he

SUPREME COURT.
Lea v. Polk County Copper Company.

had purchased from Wallace, and that he did not own the land;
state exactly -what he told you, and at what time.
Answer. In the month of July, 1848, he made the statements
I have made in that answer, that he had only bought the improvements from Wallace, and that he did not own the land,
and would not sell it, and make a title to it.
Shubird swears that he went to Ducktown to reside in 1848,
and lived there about three years; says he knew John Davis,
and the Luther Wallace improvement.
The succeeding questions propounded for the complainant,
and the answers to them, will best present the material statements of this witness:
State.whether or not the Luther Wallace improvement was
moved from the place where he first put it up; and if so, state
who had it moved, and where it was moved to.
Answer. The houses, fencing, and peach trees, were moved
from the place they were first put on the Luther Wallace place.
They were moved by John Davis, and put on his own land.
How far were these improvements taken from where Luther
Wallace had put them up?
Answer. I can't exactly say, but suppose a half mile or threequarters.
Please state why John Davis removed these improvements.
Tell all you may have heard John Davis say on that subject.
Answer. He (John Davis) stated to me that the reason he
moved them was, that he was afraid he would lose his labor,
as he had understood a man by the name of Lea had entered
the land, and stated that he did not own the land.
State whether -ornot you ever heard John Davis claim the
land where the Luther Wallace improvement was, at any time
while you lived with him.
Answer. The Luther Wallace place is now called Copper
Hill. I think in about the year 1849, after the copper property came into notice, John Davis set up a claim, and said it.
Do you know whether or not the Luther Wallace improvement or propertywas left vacant and turned out at the time
Davis removed the fencing, &c., away? And if so, state hdw
long it was left vacant.

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.
Lea v. Foll. County Coper Company.

Answer. The property was left vacant-how long I can't say,
but until Davis set up his claim; he then commenced fixing
up the fencing again.
On cross-examination, the witness states that he went, t9
Ducktown in March, 1848; that the Wallace house had been
removed before; nor was there any enclosed land on the Copper Hill tract when he went there.
He is then further interrogated, and answers:
How can you say, then, as in your answer to complainant's
third, interrogatory, that the house, fencing, and peach trees,
were removed by John Davis, and put upon his own land?
Answer. I heard John Davis say so.
At what time did Davis tell you this, and how did he happen to speak to you on this subject?
Anmer. Shortly after I went there-I can't say exactly what
time-John Davis and myself, after passing through his farm,
passed upon the vacant place of Luther-Wallace. He mentioned
the subject himself, and told what I have heretofore stated.
On which side of Davis's mill creek was the improvement of
which you have been speaking situated?
Answer. It was situated on the left hand when going up the
creek.
Was there not, at that time, a small field enclosed between
the mill creek and the Copper Hill?
Answer. Not to my knowledge, as I don't know whether
there was or not, as I know nothing about ii, only as Davis
told me that he had taken all off.
Was there any person present when this conversation occurred between you and Davis? If so, state who it was.
Answer. There was no person present.
If the evidence of these two witnesses be true, then there
was no continuous adverse holding; and the question is,
whether it is entitled to credit? Braswell swears that the entire improvements were removed, including the fruit trees;
and that the land where the Wallace improvement had been.
made was grown up and overrun with bushes and saplings;
that this was the condition of the place in 1848. Sbubird
proes the same, with the exception that he says nothing as

SUPREME COURT.
Lea v. Polk County Copper Company.

respects the undergrowth. So far as conversations with John
Davis are given, they may be dismissed, with the remark, that
he had obtained William Park Lea's deed for the land in June,
1846, and was not at all likely to carefully disavow all title,
and say the land .belonged to one Lea.
In 1856, when these depositions were taken, John Davis was
dead, and courts of justice lend a very unwilling ear to statements of what dead men had said.
Many witnesses have been examined to prove that Braswell
and Shubird are not entitled to credit on oath as witnesses, and
many prove the reverse. That they are men of no substantial
worth, and of little respectability, is manifest enough, and confidence in their integrity is certainly impaired. But in this case,
as in most others, the integrity of the witnesses is easily ascertained. If the land was grown up in bushes and saplings in
1848, it must have been thrown out as a waste place six or
eight years before that time. Davis purchased Wallace's possession in February, 1842. Wallace remained there three
years by agreement with Davis. Then Abercrombie came in,
and occupied the house one year whilst it stood in the field.
It was then removed beyond the field, and had no connection
with it. Davis himself took possession of the cleared land,
and cultivated it. It was rented by Davis to Dugger either in
1849 or 1850, and he raised a crop on it. The orchard was
there then, and continued there till 1855, after this suit was
brought, as Mann, the county surveyor, proves, who traced
the lines of the Copper Hill tract, and examined the cleared
land in the twelve-acre field, and especially that part. north of
the southern line of the forty-acre lot. Mann states that the
marks of the old house built by Wallace were plainly visible,
and so was the old worn land cleared by Wallace, and that the
peach trees were there. Substantially the same facts are proved
by nearly all of the witnesses examined on part of the respondents. It is the most familiar fact in the cause.
That the Wallace field and orchard were constantly undei
fence from the time Davis purchased of Wallace, and certainly
never abandoned nor overrun with brushwood and saplings, is
fully established.

DEOEMBER TERM, 1858.
Lea v. Polk County Cao.2er Conpany.

And our opinion is, that when Braswell and Shubird deposed to the reverse, they stated what was untrue.
The complainant in his amended bill does not controvert
the fact that adverse possession, for more than seven years,
had been holden of the land in dispute, but relies on the following allegations to avoid the bar, to wit:
Your brator shows the defendants, in their, answers on file,
charge that the said John Davis and those claiming under him
had seven years' peaceable, uninterrupted, adverse possession
of the land in dispute, previously to the filing of the original
bill, and previous to the suit at law; as to which facts no
answer is asked herein fiom defendants; but if any such pos-,
session existed, your orator charges, and which charge your
orator does require to be answered, that it was a fraudulent
possession, under a fraudulent grant and fraudulent deed, the
registration of which was postponed until within about the last
two years; that the possession of your orator's grant, first by
the said William Park Lea, and then by the said John Davis,
was fraudulently concealed from him by them; that he never
had apny knowledge or information thereof until about the time
stated in his original bill, and within the last twelve months;
and that, as his cause of action was thus fraudulently concealed, the statute of limitations cannot apply.
These allegations are specially denied by the answer of the
respondents, except as to the fact that the deed from William
Park Lea to John Davis was not registered, .which is admitted.
Of the other allegations there is no proof, and of course they
are not in the case.
Whether Lea had title or not at the time he conveyed to Davis
is altogether immaterial, as the Tennessee act of limitation intendedto protect and confirm void deeds purporting to convey an
estate in fee simple, where seven years' adverse possession had
been held under them. Nor was Davis bound to register his deed
from Lea; between them, as grantor and grantee, it was valid
without registration. Nqeither can the complainant be heard to
say that he had no notice of the fact that Davis claimed title to
the land. His possession and adverse holding was notice to the
world, as will be seen by the case of Landis v. Brant, above cited.

SUPREME COURT
Abemna v. Boota and Unted States v. Booth.

On the two grounds above stated, we order that the decree
of the Circuit Court dismissing the bill be affirmed,
Mr. Justice DALNIEL dissenting:
In the case of Lea v. The Coppermine Comany, it is my
opinion that the company, as a corporation, could neither
plead nor be impleaded in a court of the United States.

STEPHEN V. R. A .BLEMAN,PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. SHERMAN M.
BOOTH; AND THE U1ITED STATES, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V.
SHERmAN M. BOOTH.
1. The process of a State court or judge has no authority beyond the limits of the
sovereignty which confers the judicial power.
2. A kabeas corpus, issued by a State judge or court, has no authority within the
limits of the sovereignty assigned by the Constitution to the United States. The
sovereignty of the United States and of a State are distinct and independent of
each other within their respective spheres of action, althotigh both exist and
exercise their powers within the same territorial limits.,
S. When a writ of habeas corpus is served on a marshal or other person having
a prisoner in custody under the authority of the United States, it is his duty,
by a proper return, to make known to the State judge or court the authority
by which he holds him. But, at the same time, it is his duty not to obey the
process of the State authority, but to obey and execute the process of the
United States.
4. This court has appellate power in all cases arising under the Constitution and
laws of the United States, with such exceptions and regulations as Congress
may make, whether the cases arise in a State court or an inferior court of the
United States. And, under the act of Congress of 1789, when the decision of
the State court is against the right claimed under the Constitution or laws of
the United States, a writ of error will lie to bring the judgment of the State
court before this court for re-examination and revision.
5. The act of Congress of September 18, 1850, usually called the fugitive slave
law, is constitutional in all its provisions.
6. The commissioner appointed by the District Court of the United States for the
district of Wisconsin had authority to issue his warrant and commit the defend.
ant in error for an offence against the act of September 18, 1850.
7. The District Court of the United States had exclusive jurisdiction to try and
punish the offence; and the validity of its proceedings and judgment -cannot
be re-examined and set aside by any other tribunal
THESE two cases were brought up from the Supreme Court

