DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

287

Ford v. William&.

in exchange for stock, except on, condition that defendants
should guaranty that the stock in three years would be worth
par, or should be made so by the corporation. For this consideration, defendants agree to make it so, or, in other words,
to pay the difference between the cash value of the stock on
that day and its nominal value.
On this condition and for this consideration, the plaintiff
agreed to, convey his land to the railroad company; and, on
the faith of defendants' undertaking, he has conveyed it, and
accepted, not monhey, but certain stock, which defendants have
agreed to make equal to money by a certain day. The declaration avers, that at the time specified the stock was wholly
worthless, and of- no, value, and the railroad company utterly
insolvent, and unable: to pay the difference; and that defendants, having fall notice of these facts, refuse to comply with
their contract.
There is no reason why this contract should be treated as
void because of anillegal or immoral consideration. Its conditions require no previous suit to be instituted against any
one as principal debtor. The declaration contains every necessary averment: a valid contract, a large consideration paid,
and a breach of the contract by defendants; all set forth in
proper and technical language.
The plaintiff is therefgre entitled to judgment on the demurrer, unless the court below, in their discretion,, shall permit the
defendants, on payment of costs, to withdraw their demurrer,
and plead some good defence in bar.
The judgment of the court'below is reversed, and record remitted for further proceedings.

BEN A=

FoBD, PLAINTIFF IN ElROR, V.- JomN S. AND HERMAN WILLIALMS.

by an agent the principal whom he represents may
Where a contract is .mde
maintain an action upon it in his own name, although the name of the principal was not disclosed at the time of mahlng the contract; and, although the

S UPREME COURT.
Ford v. W

.iam3.

contract.be in: writing, parol evidence is admissible to show that the agent was
acting for his principal.
[(MR. JUSTICE WAYNE DID NOT SIT IN THIS CAUSE.1

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of Maryland.
Ford lived in New York, and brought an action against John
S. Williams & Brother upon the following contract:
BALTIMORE, October 31, 1855.
For and in consideration of the sum of one dollar, the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, we have this day purchased from John W. Bell, and agree to receive from him in
all the month of February next, at his option, two thousand
barrels Howard street super flour, we paying for the same at
the rate of nine dollars per barrel, on the day the said flour is
JOHN S. WILLIAMS & BRO.
ready for delivery.
below, much evidence was given
court
Upon the trial in the
in the present aspect of the
to
recite
which it is not necessary
case. The court, on the application of the defendants' counsel,
instructed the jury that, upon the above contract, Ford could
not recover. The only question in the case was whether, assuming the contract to have been made for the benefit of the
plaintiff, without any disclosure to the defendants of his inter
est, he was competent to maintain a suit in his own name.

It was argued by 3r. Brown for the plaintiff in error, and
by Mr. Nelson for the defendants.
The case of the New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v.
The Merchants' Bank (6 Howard, 381) was considered to be
decisive of the question.
There is no marginal note in the report of that case, showing that the point was made. The reason was, that there were
eight judges upon the bench, only three of whom concurred
with Mr. Justice Nelson in the opinion which he delivered,
although Mr. Justice Woodbury concurred in the judgment.
There being no opinion, therefore, of the court, as such, the

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.
Ford v. FWiliam.

reporter did, not think himself authorized to insert in his head

note all the points ruled in the opinion delivered by Mr. Justice Nelson.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The single question presented for our decision in this case
is, whether the principal can maintain an action on a written
contract made by his agent in his own name, without disclosing the name of the principal.
It is not necessary to the validity of a contract, under the
statute of frauds, that the writing disclose the principal. In
the brief memoranda of these contracts usually made by brokers and factors, it is seldom done. If a party is informed that
the person with whomi he is dealing is merely the agent for
another, and prefers to deal with the agent personally on his
own credit, he will not be allowed afterwards to charge the
principal; but when he deals with the agent, without any
disclosure of the fact of his agency, he may elect to treat
the after-discovered principal as the person with whom he contracted.
The contract of the agent is the contract of the principal,
and he may sue or be sued thereon, though not named therein;
and notwithstanding the rule of law that an agreement reduced
to writing may not be contradicted or varied by parol, it is well
settled that the principal may show that the agent who made
the contract in his own name was acting for him. This proof
does not contradict the writing; it only explains the transaction. But the agent, who binds himself, will not be allowed to
contradict the writing by proving that he was contracting only
as agent, while the same'evidence will te admitted. to charge
'the principal. "Such evidence (says Baron Parke) does not
deny that the contract binds those whom on its face it purports
to bind; but shows that it also binds another, by reason that
the act of the agent is the act of the principal." (See Higgins
v. Senior,-9 Meeson and Wilsby,. 843.)
. The airay of cases and treatises cited by the
plaintiff's coun
sel shows conclusively that this question is settled, not only by
the courts of England and many of the States, but by this court.
VOL. XXI.

19

SUPREME COURT.
Lownsdak d aL v. Parrig

(See New Jersey Steam :Navigation Co. v. Merchants' Bank, 6
How., 381, et cas. ib. cit.)
The judgment of the court below is therefore reversed, and
a a venire de novo awarded.

DANIEL

H. LOWNSDALE

AND OTHERS, APPELLANTS, v.

JosAn L.

PARRISH.
Congress passed no law in any wise affecting title to lands in the Territory of
Oregon until September, 1850; and therefore where a controversy arose, in
July, 1850, relating to titles to land, neither party could be said to have a
legal title.
Consequently, the amount in controversy could not be ascertained, so as to bring
the case within the jurisdiction of this court; and there is no question arising
under the Constitution or laws of the United States so as to give jurisdiction.

THIS was an appeal from the Supreme Court of the Territory of Oregon.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Gillet and Hr.Johnson for the appellants, and Mr.Baxter for the aprellee.
The arguments of the counsel were directed chiefly to the
merits. On the point of jurisdiction, Mr. Baxter gave an -account of the singular spectacle exhibited by the American settlers in Oregon, who established a provisional Government
amongst themselves, whilst the entire Territory was still in the
joint occupancy of the United States and Great Britain. Mr.
Baxter then referred to the act of Congress passed on the 14th
of August, 1848, (9 Stat. at L., 829,) which contained the two
following clauses, viz:
"And the existing laws now in force in the Territory of
Oregon, under the provisional Government established by the
people thereof, shall continue to be valid and operative therein, so far as the same be not incompatible with the Constitution of the United States, and the principles and provisions of
this act.

