SUPREME COURT.
Barber v. Barber.

The answer of defendants, which is responsive to the bill,
(which avers a purchase at market price,) denies the payment
of any consideration whatever, and none has been proved.
The defendant has paid a large and valuable consideration
without any notice of the plaintiff's claim, has made his proofs,
has had the decision of the Land Office in his favor. He has
obtained an advantage of which a court of equity will not deprive him under the circumstances.
The judgment of the court below is affirmed with cost.

HIRAM BARBER, APPELLANT, V. HIJLDAH

A.

BARBER, BY HER

NEXT FRIEND, GEORGE ORONKHITE.
This court disclaims altogether any jurisdiction in the courts of the United States
upon the subject of divorce or for the allowance of alimony, either as an original proceeding in chancery, or as an incident to a divorce a vinculo, or to one
from bed and board.
But where a court of competent jurisdiction in New York decreed a divorce a
mensa et thoro between man and wife, allowing alimony to the latter, and the
husband removed to Wisconsin for the purpose of placing himself beyond the
jurisdiction of the court which could enfoice it, without having paid any bart
of the alimony, or leaving any estate of any kind out of which it could be paid,
the wife can sue by her next friend in-a court of the United States, having
equity jurisdiction, to recover the amount of alimony decreed by the State
court.

A divorce a vincul, obtained in Wisconsin without a disclosure of te circumstances of the divorce case in New York, and upon the allegation by the husband that the wife bad wilfully abandoned him, cannot release the husband
there and everywhere else from his liability to the decree made against him in
New York, upon that decree being carried into judgment in a court of another
State of this Union or inv a court of the Unitdd States, where the defendant may
be found, or where he may have acquired a new domicil, differing from that
which he had in New York when the decree was made there against him.
The cases in EDgland and in the United States examined, in which a wife may sue
her husband by her next friend.
A court of chancery in England will interfere to compel the payment of alimony
which has been decreed to a wife by the ecclesiastical court, and the principal
reason for its exercise is equally applicable to courts of equity in the United
States. The parties to a cause for a divorce and for alimony are as much
bound by a decree for both, which has been given by one of our State c-nrts

.DECEM .ER TERM, 1858.
Barber v. Barber.
havinj jurisdiction of the subject-matter and over the parties, as the same par.
ties would be if the decree had been given by the ecclesiastical court of Eng.
land.
This court has heretofore decided, and now reaffirms, that in order to bar the
jurisdiction of the courts of te United States in equity, the' remedy at law
must be as practical and efficacious to the ends of justice and its prompt administration as the remedy in equity; and it is no objection to such equity
jurisdiction that there is a remedy under the local law.
After tie divorce a mensa et thwro in New York, and the removal of the husband
to Wisconsin, the domicil of the wifedid not follow that of the husband, but remained unchanged in New York. The jurisdiction of the United States court
therefore attached as it respected the different citizenship of the parties.
The Anerican and English authorities upon this point examined.
A wife under a judicial sentence of separation from bed and board is entitled to
make a domicil for herself different from that of her husband; and she may,
by her next friend, sue her husband for alimony which.he had been decreed
to pay as an incident to such divorce, or when it has been given after sucf a
decree by a supplemental bill.
The equity side of the court was the appropriate tribunal before which she was to
sue; and the District Court of the United States in the State -of Wisconsin
had jurisdiction over the case.

THIS was an appeal from the the District Court of the United
States for the district of Wisconsin.
The facts in the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. -Doolittlefor the appellant upon a brief
filed by Mkr. Billinghurst and Mr. Doolittle, and by Mr. Brown
upon a printed argument for the appellee.
The reporter would give these arguments in extnso, but for
the circumstance that the points in the case are thoroughly
examined in the opinion of the court and in the dissenting
opinion of Mr. Justice Daniel.
Mr. Justice WAYiNE delivered the opinion of the court.
We regard this as a.suit for a wife brought on the equity
side of the District Court of the United States for the district
of Wisconsin, by her next friend, George Cronkhite, a citizen
of the State of :New York, against Hiram Barber, a citizen of
the State of Wisconsin, to give the same validity to a judgment

SUPREME COURT.
Barber v. Barber.

in that State which it has in the State of New York against the
defendant for the payment, of alimony to his wife, who has
been divorced from him a mensa et thoro, with an allowance of
alimony by a court, which had, when the decree was made,
jurisdiction over the parties and the subject-matter.
We shall not have occasion to comment upon the relations
of husband and wife in her uninterrupted coverture, nor will
we discuss the general rights, obligations, or disabilities, ofeither, when they have been separated by a divorce a mensa et
thoro.
Our first remark is-and we wish it to be remembered-that
this is not a suit asking the court for the allowance of alimony.
That has been done by a court of competent jurisdiction. The
court in Wisconsin was asked to interfere to prevent that
decree from being defeated by fraud.
We disclaim altogether any jurisdiction in the courts of the
United States upon the subject of divorce, or for the allowance
of alimony, either as an original proceeding in chancery or as
an incident to divorce a vinculo, or to one from bed and
board.
The record raises these inquiries: Whether a wife divorced
a mensa et thoro can acquire another domiciliation in a State of
this Union different from that of her husband, to entitle her,
by her next friend, to sue him in a court of the United States
having equity jurisdiction, to recover from him alimony due,
and which he refuses to make any arrangement to pay; and
whether a c~urt of equity is not a proper tribunal for a remedy
in such a case.
We will first direct our attention to the circumstances of the
case, and will give them from the bill and answer, and from
the testimony in the record.
Hiram Barber and Huldah Adeline Barber were married in
the State of New York, in the year 1840, where his domicil
then was, and continued to be until he left it for Wisconsin,
which was soon after a decree had been given for a divorce a
nensa et thoro between them, with an allowance of alimony to
be paid by him. "Her application for such a divorce was made
by Cronkhite, her next friend, in the court of chancery for

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

685

Barbcr v. Barber.

the fourth district of the State of New York, that court having
jurisdiction of the subject-matter and over the parties.
The defendant appeared and resisted the application. The
cause was heard on the pleadings and proofs. It resulted in a
declaration by the chancellor that the defendant had been guilty
of cruel and inhuman treatment of his wife, and of such conduct .towards her as to render it unsafe and improper for her to
cohabit with him; and that he had abandoned, neglected, and
refused to provide for her. And it therefore decreed that the
complainant and defendant be separated from bed and board
forever; provided, however, that they might at any time thereafter, by their joint petition, apply to the court to have the
decree modified or discharged; and that neither of the said
parties shall .be at liberty to 'marry any other person during
the lifetime of the other party. The court then referred the
cause to a master, to ascertain and report what should be a]lowed and to be paid by the defendant, or out of hiis estate, to
Mrs. Barber, for her suitable support and maintenance. In pursuance of this decretal order ahd reference, the master made a
report. The defendant filed exceptions to it. The cause was
regularly brought to a hearing.upon the defendant's exceptions.
They were overruled ,adfd a final decree was made in the .cause.
The language of the decree is, that 'the exceptions are over-ruled,and that the report of the master is absolutely confirmed.
That for the suitable support and maintenance of Mrs. Barber,
there should be allowed .and paid to her by the defendant, or
out of his estate, in quarterly instalments, the annual sum of
three hundred and sixty dollars in each and every year; and
that as it appeared he had not given to her any support in the
interval between the filing of the bill in her behalf and the renditionof the decree, that the defendant should pay to her three
hundreca and sixty dollars a year in quarterly payments from
the 1st day of July, 1844, that being the day when the bill was
filed; and it was decreed that the sum of nine hundred and
sixty dollars, being tle alimony retrospectively due, should be
paid -forthwith by the defendant, and that the complainant
should have execution therefor. It was further ordered, that
the permanent alimony allowed and tb become due after the

SUPREME COURT.
Barberv. Barber.

1st of March, 1847, to which day alimony is above computed,
should be paid by the defendant in quarterly payments on the
1st days of March, June, September, and December, in each
year during the life of Mrs. Barber; ,and in case of its not being
so paid, that the quarterly payments should bear interest as
they respectively became due, and that execution might issue
therefor tortes quoties. The court then decreed that the permanent alimony allowed to Mrs. Barber.was vested in her for her
own and separate use, and as her own and separate estate, with
full power to invest the same in a trustee or trustees, as she
might think proper to appoint, with the power to dispose of
the same by will or otherwise, from time to time during her
life, or at her death, or either, as she may think proper, free
from any control, claim, or interposition of the defendant. The
said decree, with a taxed bill of costs in the suit, was signed
and enrolled according to the form of the statute in such cases
made and provided in the State of New York.
It is upon a transcript of all the papers in that suit, authenticated as the law requires it to be done, that the suit now before us was brought in the District Court of the United States
for the district -of Wisconsin.
The complainants aver in their bill that they are citizens of
the State of New York, and that the defendant is a citizen of
the State of Wisconsin. They then set out the proceedings of
the court in .New York, divorcing Mr. and Mrs. Barber from
bed and board, with especial reference to the dedree and the
entire record of that suit, charging the defendant with not
having -paid any part of the alimony adjudged to Mrs. Barber; and that there was then due to her on that account the
sum of four thousand two hundred and forty-two dollars and
fifteen cents, with interest at seven per cent., that being the
legal rate in the State of New York. The rest of the bill it is
not necessary to state more particularly, than that it is a recital of a suit which had been brought upon the common-law
side of the District Court of the United States for the county
of Milwahkee, in the Territory of Wisconsin, for the amount
of alimony due by the defendant; to the declaration in which
he filed a demurrer, upon which a judgment was rendered in

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

587

Barber v. Barber.

his favor, which was afterwards affirmed in the Supreme Court
of the State, for the reason that the remedy for the recovery of
alimony was in a court of chancery,.and not at law. To this
bill also the defendant demurred, on account of the case not
being within the ordinary jurisdiction of a court of chancery,
that the relief sought could only be had in the court of chancery in the State of New York, and that it-did not appearthat
the complainants had exhausted the remedy which they had in
New York. This demurrer Was overruled, and the defendant
was ordered to answer. He did so. He admits in his answer
the legality and locality of his marriage with Mrs. Barber; the
jurisdiction of the court in the divorce case; that a divorce had
been decreed between them from bed and board, after contestation; and that by that decree he was subjected to the payment
of alimony tQ the extent and in the way it is claimed in the
bill he was then answering. He admits that he left the State
of New York without having paid any part of it, or having
made any arrangemen t to do so; alleging, however, that he
York, upon which no proceedings
'iew
had left real estatem
had been taken to make it liable to the decree against him for
alimony.' And he then goes on to state, that on the 19th day
of April, 1852, he had filed his bill in the Circuit Court of the
county of Dodge, in the State of Wisconsin, against Mrs. Barber, she then being his wife, to obtain a dissolution of the marriage contract between them, and that their marriage had been
dissolved by a decree of that court, which is on record in the
same. And he adds, that his wife by that decree became a
feme sole; and being so, she could not sue by her next friend,
and that her remedy was in a court of law. To this answer a
general replication was filed. The cause was carried to a hearing upon the pleadings and proofs, and a decree was made, adjudging that five thousand nine hundred and thirty-six dollars
and eighty cents is due from the defendant upon the alimony
sued for, for principal and interest, to and prior to the time of
filing the bill in this cause, and that the defendant should pay
it, for the sole and separate support and maintenance of Mrs.
Barber, together with the costs, to be taxed within ten days;
and in default.thereof, that execution should issue for the same.

SUPREME COURT.
Barber v. Barber.

It appears, from the testimony in the cause, that the defendant left the State of New York in a short time after the decree'
for the divorce and for alimony had been rendered, for the purpose of placing himself beyond the jurisdiction of the court
which could enforce it, without having paid any part of the alimony due, or leaving any estate of any kind out of which it
could be paid; for he gave no proof of any kind that he had
real estate in the State of 1New York in support of that allegation in his answer.
It also appears, from the record, that the defendant had made
his application to the court in Wisconsin for a divorce a rinculo
from Mrs. Barber, without having disclosed to that court any
of the circumstances of the divorce case in New York; and
that, contrary to the truth, verified by that record, he asks for
the divorce on account of his wife having wilfully abandoned
him. It is not necessary for us to pass any opinion upon the
legality of the decree, or upon its operation there or elsewhere
to dissolve the vinculum of the marriage between the defendAnt
and Mrs. Barbees. It certainly has no efect to release the defendant there and everywhere else from his liability to the
decree made against him in the State of New York, upon that
decree being' carried into judgment in a court of another State
of this Union, or in a courtof the United States, where the
defendant may be found, or where he may have acquired a new
domicil different from that which he had in New York when
the decree was made there against him.
The questions made by the bill and the answer, and by the
arguments of counsel, we will state in the form of an inquiry.
They are as follows: Whether a wife divorced a mensa et thoro
may not have a domiciliation in a State of-this Union different
from that of her husband in another State, to enable her to sue
him there by her next friend, in equity, in'a court of the United States, to carry into judgment a decree which has been
made against him for alimony by a court having jurisdiction
of the parties and the subject-matter of divorce?
In the consideration of.these questions, we must not allow
ourselves to be misled by the general rule which prevails in
England, that a suit cannot be maintained at law by a fene

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

589

Barberv. Barber.

covert, and that, notwithstanding a divorce a mensa et thoro, a
wife cannot sue or be sued in a court of law; for in England
she may in several cases maintain a suit in her own name as a
feme sole, both at law and in equity. They are exceptions to
the general rule, orprivilegedcases, under certain circumstances,
where it cannot be presumed, from his own acts, that the husband's control of his wife is continued, and where she has been
deprived of his protection to represent with her her rights and
interests in a suit at law, or in one in equity. The cases mentioned in the books where afere covert may sue as a feme sole
are: When her husband, is banished, or has abjured the realm,
or has been transported for felony; where the husband is an
alien enemy, and his wife is domiciled in the realm; where the
husband is an alien domiciled abroad, and has never been in
the realm; or where he has voluntarily abandoned her, and is
under a disability to return; so where the husband has deserted the wife in a foreign country, and she goes to England
and maintains herself as afeme sole; where-the husband, in a
foreign State, compels his wife to leave him for another political jurisdiction, and she maintains herself there as a feme sole.
Cases have been decided in Massachusetts in conformity
with the English cases. There are cases in England which
have gone much further, but we do not cite them, preferring
only to mention such instances as have not been questioned by
subsequent cases in England or in the United States. (See
Story's Equity Pleading, 6th edition, see. 61, pp. 59, 60, and
the cases cited in the notes.)
Except in such cases, afeme covert cannot sue at law, unless
it be jointly with her husband, for she is deemed to be under
the protection of her husband, and a suit respecting her rights
must be with the assent and co-operation 'of- her husband.
(Mitf. Equity Pl., by Jeremy, 28; Edwards on Parties in
Equity, 144, 153; Calvert on Parties, ch. 3, sec. 21, pp. 265,
274; 6 How.)
In the case of Burr v. Heath, (6 How. S. 0. R., 228,) this
court said, without any reference to the law of Louisiana:
"That the general rule was, when the wife complains of her
husband, and asks relief against him, she must use the name

SUPREME COURT.
Barber v. Barber.

of some other person in prosecuting the suit; but where the
acts of the husband are not complained of, he would seem to
be the most suitable person to unite with her in the suit. This
is a matter of practice within the discretion of the court. It is
sanctioned in Story's Equity Pleading, and by Fonblanque.
The modern practice in England has adopted a different course,
by uniting the name of the wife with a person other than her
husband, in certain cases."
There are also exceptions in equity, which are wholly unknown at law. Thus, if a married woman claims some right
in opposition to the rights claimed by the husband, and it becomes proper to vindicate her rights against her husband, she
cannot maintain a suit against him at law; but in equity she
may do so, and against all others who may be proper or necessary parties. But it must be done under the protection of
some other person who acts as her next friend, and the bill is
accordingly exhibited in her name by such next friend. (Story'b
Equity PL., 6th ed., sec. 61, p. 61.) It is also said, in the same
work, to be our constant experience, that the husband may sue
the wife, or the wife the husband, in equity, notwithstanding
neither of them -can sue the other at law. (Cannel v. Buckle,
2 P. Will., 243, 244; Ex parte Strangeways, 3 Ark., 478; Fonblanque Eq., B. 1, ch. 2, sec. 6, note N; Brooks r. Brooks, Pre.
Oh., 24; Mitford Pl., by Jeremy, 28.) These citations have been
made to show the large jurisdiction which a court of equity has
tosecure the rights of married women, when it may be necessary to exert it with the assistance of the husband, or when he
improperly interferes with them, so as to make it necessary foi
the wife to defend herself against his unwarranted claims to
her property. The result of that jurisdiction now is, that the
wife may, in all such instances, sue her husband by her next
friend.
There is, too, another ground of jurisdiction in equity, just
as certainly estabiished as that is of which we have just spoken.
It comprehends the case before us. It is, that courts of equity
will interfere to compel the payment of alimony which has
been decreed to a wife by the ecclesiasticl court in England.
Such a jurisdictBn is ancient .there, and the principal reason

DECEM-RER TERM, 1858.

591

Barlerv. Barber.

for its exercise is equally applicable to the courts of equity in
the United States. It is, that when a court of competentjurisdiction over the subject-matter and the parties decrees a divorce, and alimony to the wife as its incident, and is unable
of itself to enforce the decree summarily upon the husband,
that courts of equity will interfere to prevent the decree from
being defeated by fraud. The interference, however, is limited
to cases in which alimony has been decreed; then only- the
extent of what is due, and always to cases in which no appeal
is pending from the decree for the divorce or for alimony.
(Shaftoe v. Shaftoe, 7 Vesdy, 171; Dawson v. Dawson, 7 Yes.,
173; Haiffey v. Haffey, 14 Ves., 261; Angier v. Angier, Pre.
Ch., 497; Cooper's Eq. P., ch. 3, pp. 149, 150; Coglan v. CogIan, 1 Yes., p. 194; Street v. Street, 1 Turn. and Tapel, 322.)
The parties to a cause for a divorce and for alimony are as
much bound by a decree for both, which has been given by one
of our State courts having jurisdiction of the subject-matter and
over the parties, as the same parties would be if the decree had
been given in the ecclesiastical court of England. The decree
in both is a judgment of record, and will be received as such
by other courts. And such a judgment or decree, rendered in
any State of the United States, the court having jurisdiction,
will be carried into judgment in any other State,. to have there
the same binding force that it has in the State in which it was
originally given. For such a purpose, both the equity courts
of the United States and the same courts of the States have
jurisdiction.
We observe, in confirmation of what has just been said, that
the jurisdiction of the courts of the United States is derived
from the Constitution, .and from legislation in conformity with
it. The first limitation by the latter upon the jurisdiction of
the equity courts of the United States is, that no suit can be
sustained in them, where a plain, adequate, and complete remedy may be had at law. The court has said: "It is not enough
that there is a remedy at law; it must be plain and adequate,
or, in other words, as practical and efficacious to the ends of
justice, and its prompt administration, as the remedy in equity.
(Boyce's Ex'x v. Grundy, 3 Peters, 210; United States v. Row

SUPREME COURT.
Barber v. Barber.

land, 4 Wh., 108; Osborn and the United States Bank, 9 Wh.,
841, 842.) It is no objection to equity jurisdiction in the courts
of the United States, that there is a remedy under the local law,
for the equity jurisdiction of the Federal courts is the same in
all of the States, and is not affected by the existence or nonexistence of an equity jurisdiction in the State tribunals. It
is the same in nature and extent as thejurisdiction of England,
whence it is derived." (Livingston v. Story, 9 Peters, 632.)
Such a suit for the enforcement of a decree for alimony as that
before us is not an exception, unless the court has notjurisdiction over the parties, and the amount be not such as is required
to bring it into this court by appeal.
We proceed to show that it has jurisdiction. The Constitution requires, to give the courts of the United States jurisdiction, that the litigants to a suit should "be citizens of different States." The objection in this case is, that the complainant does not stand in that relation to her husband, the
defendant; in other words, it is a denial of a wife's right, who
has been divorced a mensa et thoro, to acquire for herself a domiciliation in a State of this Union different from that of her
husband in another State, to entitle her to sue him there by
her next friend, in a court of the United States having equity
jurisdiction, to recover from him alimony which he has been
adjudged to pay to her by a court which had jurisdiction over
the parties and the subject-matter of divorce, where the decree
was rendered.
We have already shown, by many authorities, that courts of
equity have a jurisdiction to interfere to enforce a decree for
alimony, and by cases decided by this court; that the jurisdiction of the courts of equity of the United States is the same as
that of England, whence it is derived. On that score, alone,
the jurisdiction of the court in the case before us cannot be
successfully denied.
But it was urged by the learned counsel who argued this
cause for the defendant, that husband and wife, although allowed to live separately under a decree of separation a mensa
et thoro, made by a State court having competent jurisdiction,
qre still so far one person, while the married relation. con-

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

593"

Barber v. Barber.

tinues to exist, that they cannot become at the same time citizens of different States, within the meaning of the Federal
Constitution, and therefore the court Lelow had no jurisdiction.
It was also said, for the purpose of bringing suits for divorces,
they may" acquire separate residences in fact; but this is an
exception founded in necessity only, and that the legal domicil of the wife, until the marriage be dissolved, is the domicil
of the husband, and is changed with a change of his domicil.
Such, however, are not the views which have been taken in
Europe generally, by its jurists, of the domici] of a wife
divorced a mensa et thoro. They are contrary, too, to -the generally-received doctrine in England and the United States upon
the point.
In England it has been decided, that where the husband and
wife are living apart, under a judicial sentence )f separation,,
that the domicil of the husband is not the domicil of the wife(English Law and Equity Reports, 9 vol., 59ยง; 2 Robertson,
545.) When Mr. Philemore wrote his treatise upon the law of
domicil, he said he was not aware of any decided case upon
the question of the domicil of a wife divorced a mensa et thoro,
but there can be little doubt, that in England, as in France, it would
not be that of her husband, but the one chosen for herself after the
divorce. In support of his opinion, he cites Pothier's Introd.
aux Coutume, p. 4; Mercadie in his Commentary upon the
French Code, vol. 1, p. 287; the French Code, tit. 111, art.
108; the Code Civile of Sardinia; and Cocher's Argument in
the Duchess of rolsten's case, Ouvres, 1, 2, p. 223.
Mr. Bishop, in his Commentaies on the Law of Marriage
and Divorce, has a passage so appropriate to the point we are
discussing, that we will extract i. 3ntire. It is of the more
value, too, because it comprehends the opinions entertained by
eminent American jurists and judges in respect to the domicil
of a wife divorced a mensa et thoro. He says, in discussing--the
jurisdiction of courts where parties sought a divorce abroad for
causes which would have been insufficient at home, that "it was
necessary to settle a preliminary question, namely, whether for
the purpose of a divorce suit the husband and wife can have
separate domicils; that the general doctrine is faro liar, that
38
VOL. XX1._

SUPREME COURT.
Barberv. Barber.

the domicil of the wife is that of the husband.

But it will

probably be found,* on examination, that the doctrine rests
upon the legal duty of the wife to follow and dwell with the
husband wherever he goes.
"If he commits an offence which entitles her to have the marriage dissolved, she is not only discharged thereby immediately,
and without a judicial determination of the question, from her
duty to follow and dwell with him, but she must abandon him,
or the cohabitation will amount to a condonation, and bar her
claim to the remedy. In other words, she must establish a
domicil of her own, separate from her husband, though it may
be, or not, in the same judicial locality as his. Courts, however, may decline to recognise such domicil in a collateral proceeding-that is, a proceeding other than a suit for a divorce.
But where the wife is plaintiff in a divorce suit, it is the burden of her application, that she is entitled, through the misconduct of her husband, to a separate domicil. So when parties are already liviag under a judicial separation, the domicil of th6
wife does not follow that of the husband." (Section 728.)
Chief Justice Shaw says, in Harlean v. Harlean, (14 Peck,
181, 185,) the law will recognise a wife as having a separate
existence and separate interests and separate rights, in those
cases where the express object of all proceedings is to show
that the relation itself ought to be dissolved, or so modified as
to establish separate interests, and especially a separate domi
cil and home. Otherwise the parties, in this respect, would
stand upon a very unequal footing, it being in the power of
the husband to change his domicil at will, but not in that of
the wife.
The cases which were cited against the right of a wife,
divorced from bed and board, to choose for herself a domicil,
do not apply. (Do.negal v. Donegal, in 1 Addam's Ecclesiastical Rep., pp. 8, 19.) That of Shachell v. Shachell, cited in
Whitcomb v. Whitcomb, (9 Curtteis Ecclesiastical Rep., p.
852,) are decisions upon the domicil of the wife, when living
bapart from her hfisband.by their mutual agreement, but not under
decrees divorcing the wife from the bed and board of the husband. The leading dase under the same circumstances is fhat-

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

595

Barber v. Barber.

of Warrender v. Warrender, (9 Bligh., 103, 104.) In that case,
Lord Brougham makes the fact that the husband and wife
were living apart by agreement, and not by a sentence, of
divorce, the foundation of the judgment. The general rule is,
that a voluntary'separation will not give to the wife. a different
domiciliation in law from that of her husband. But if the husband, as is the fact in this -case, abandons their domicil and
his wife, to get rid of all those conjugal obligations which the
marriage relation imposes upon him, neither giving to her thenecessaries nor the comforts suitable to their condition and
his fortune, and relinquishes altogether his marital cojtrol andprotection, he yields up that power and authority over her
which alone makes his-domicil hers, and places her in a situation to sue him for a divorce a .menrsa et thoro, and to ask the
court having jurisdiction of her suit to allow her.from her husband's means, by way of alimony, a suitable maintenance
and support. When that has been done, it becomes a judicial
debt of record against the husband, which may be enforced by
execution or attachment against his person, issuing from the
court which gave the decree; and when that cannot be done
on account of the husband having left or fled from that jurisdiction to another, where the process of that court cannot reach
him, the wife, by her next friend, may she him wherever he
may be found, or where he shall have acquired a-new'domidil,
for the purpose of recovering the alimony due to her, or to
carry the decree into a judgment there with the same effect that it has
in, the State in which the decree was giveh. Alimony decreed to a
wife in a divorce of separation from bed and board is as much
a debt of record, until the decree has been recalled, as any
other judgment for money is. When it is not paid, the wife
can sue her husband for it in a court of equity, as an incident
of that condition which gave to her the right to sue him, by
her next friend, for a divorce.
It was decided in the State of Massachusetts, as early as the'
year 1800, that there were circumstances under which it appears to be absolutely necessary for the wife to sue, as for the- recovery of alimony. That case was the same, in its circumstances, as this with which we are dealing. The wife libelled.

SUPREME COURT.
Barber v. Barber.

for a divorce a mensa et thoro, on account of the extreme cruelty of her husband. The divorce was decreed; and the husband was ordered to pay to her alimony, in quarterly instalments. The wife afterwards brought an action against him
for arrears. He demurred to the -declaration ; and judgment
was given for her. (Wheeler v. Wheeler, 2 Dana, H. 310.)
The same has been held in other cases in that State. It is
now establislhd doctrine there, and in some of our other
Siates. They hold that a decree for a divorce, with an allowance for alimony, is as much a judgment as if it had been obtained on the common-law side of the court.
Rogers, Justice, in Clark v. Clark, (6 Watts and Sergeant,)
places the right to recover arrears of alimony on the ground
that the husband, after the decree for a divorce was rendered,
had withdrawn himself from the jurisdiction of the court, to
prevent him from being forced by attachment to pay the alimony which had been decreed to the wife.
In the State of New York, a wife may file a bill against her
husband for alimony; and it appearing that he had abandoned
her without any support, and threatened to leave the State, the
court, on the wife's petition, granted a writ of ne exeat res publica against him. (Denton v. Denton, 1 J. C., 2, 364.)
In South Carolina, where the court, having no power to grant
divorces, decreed to a wife alimony, on her bill praying for that
remedy, only, and ordered the husband to give security for its
payment, the sheriff, having taken hinI into custody, suffered
him to escape; it was held that the wife might maintain, by
her next friend, an action at law against the sheriff for the
escape. Smith, Justice, said. "It had been urged in the argtament that this woman, being dfeme covert, could not maintain
the action by her next friend. If that argument were to prevail, there would be a failure of justice, which our law abhors,
as there would be no means of enforcing a decree of a wife
against her husband for alimony. The court of equity could
order a refractory husband to be attached, and the sheriff would
let him go, if he thought proper; then, if the wife could not
sue by her next friend, who could? The law provides no other
course. And, upon this occasion, I would adopt the course

DEOEMVBER TERM, 1858.

597

Barber v. Barber.

of a very learned judge, 'if there is no precedent, I will make
one.' "
In Ohio, a wife divorced a mensa et thoro may maintain ejectment for a lot of land, the use of which was allowed to her as
alimony. .In Virginia, it was said, in Purcell v. Purcell, (4
Een. and Mansf., 507,) that the court of chancery has jurisdiction in all cases of alimony. In Maryland, the high court
of chancery, from the earliest colonial times, exercised the jurisdiction to decree alimony, but not to grant divorces.
. This was done under the belief that it belonged to the high
court of chancery, in the absence of ecclesiastical tribunals;
and in 1777 an act of Assembly provided that the chancellor
shall and may hear and determine all causes for alimony, in as
fall and ample a manner as such causes could be heard and
determined by the laws of England, in the ecclesiastical courts
there.
Under that statute, alimony is granted to the wife whenever
the English courts would be authorized to render a divorce
from bed and.board; but the court has no power to extend the
remedy, and decree a divorce also.
The inherent jurisdiction of a court of equity to decree alimony has also been acknowledged in Alabama. In North
Carolina, bills of equity by the wife against the husband, praying alimony, were sustained, from an early day, without question as to the lawfulness of the jurisdiction.
Where such a decree has been made, whether done as an
inherent power in equity to grant a decree for alimony, or as
an auxiliary to enforce the payment of it as an incident of a
divorce a mensa ethoro, there are no decisions, either in the
English or American books, denying the wife's right to sue her
husband ior arrears of alimony due, by her next friend.
In some of the States she may do so, without the intervention of her next friend; but she cannot do that, as has been
said before, in the courts of the United States having equity
jurisdiction.
We think also that the cases which have been cited in this
opinion are sufficient to show, whatever may have been the
doubts in an earlier day, that a wife under a judicial sentence

SUPREME COURT.
Barber v. Barber.

of separation from bed and board is entitled to make a domicil
for herself, different from that of her husband, and that she
may by her next friend sue her husband for alimony, which he
had been decreed to pay as an incident to such divorce, or when
t has been given after such a decree by a supplemental bill.
In our best reflections, we have been unable to come to a different result. The privileges allowed to a wife under such circumstances rest upon the facts that the separation is only grantable propter Scevitam; that the alimony commonly allowed is
Sno more than enough to give her a home and a scanty maintenance, almost always necessarily short of that from which
her husband has driven her; and that as a consequence she
should be permitted to change her domicil, where she may
live upon her narrow allowance with most comfort and the least
mortification. Her right to sue her husband, by her next friend,
for alimony already decreed, rests upon higher considerations,
or upon legal principles which have been so well expressed by
Chief Justice Shaw, as to her right to sue in the State of Massachusetts, that we will use his language, deeming it to be
applicable in any other State in the American Union:
"After such a divorce, the law of this Commonwealth recognises her right to acquire and hold property, to take her own
earnings to her own use, for the maintenance of herself and
her children. She is deprived of the protection, and exempted
from the control, of her husband. She may by the decree of
the court granting the divorce, and pursuant to the provision
of the statute law of the Commonwealth, be charged with the
custody, and consequently with the support and maintenance,
of the children of the marriage. The reason, therefore, why a
wife cannot sue or be sued without joining or being joined
with her husband, does not exist. The relation in which the
divorce a mensa et thoro places the parties opposes a joinder.
If it were necessary to join the-husband as-plaintiff, he might
release her rights, by which she would be subjected to costs;
if he might be joined as defendant, he might be made subject
to her debts; both of which consequences are repugnant to the
true relation of _divided and separate interests, in which the
law by such a decree places them. -Whilst the la- thus recog-

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

599

Barber v. Barber.

nises the right of a woman so divorced to acquire and take the
proceeds of her industry to her own use, it recognises her power
to make contracts; and if she could not sue and be sued, it
would present the anomalous case in which the law recognises
a right without affording a remedy for vindicating it, and subjects a party to a'duty without lending its aid to enforce it."
We do not deem it necessary to show, further than it has
already been done in this opinion, that the equity side of the
court was the appropriatetribunal for this cause. We have,
however, verified the correctness and applicability of several
of the cases cited in his argument by the counsel of the complainant to sustain that point, and deem them decisive.
The only point remaining for our determination is that which
questions the complainant's right to pursue her remedy in the
equity side of the District Court of the United States in the
State of Wisconsin.
The facts are, that she married the defendant in the State of
New York, the State then of her husband's domicil; ttlat they
lived there until the decree of separation was made; that she
has retained it ever since as her domicil, but that the defendant, after the decree of separation was given, left her domicil
in New York for another in the State of Wisconsin, in which
he says that he has acquired a domicil. The complainant comes
into court in the character of citizen of the State of New York.
Mrs. Barber is recognised to be such by the laws of that State,
and her status as a divorced woman a mensa. et thoro by a court
of competent jurisdiction in New York, and the rights of citi'zenship which she has under it there, are decisive of her right
to sue in the courts of the United States, as thathas been done
in this instance. Thd citizenship of the defendant is admitted
and claimed by him to be in the State of Wisconsin. His voluntary change of domicil from New York to Wisconsin iakes
him suable there. That might have been done in a State court
in equity as well as in the District Court of 'theUnited States;
but she had a right to pursue her remedy in either. She his
chosen to do so in a court of the United States, which has jurisdiction over the subject-matter of-her claim to the same extent
that a court of equity of a State has, and we think that the

SUPREME COURT.
Barber v. Barber.

court below has not committed error in sustaining its jurisdiction over this cause, nor in the decree which it has made. We
affirm the decree of that court, and direct a mandate to be
issued accordingly.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY, Mr. Justice DANIEL, and Mr.
Jusice CAMPBELL, dissented.
Mr. Justice DANIEL:
From several considerations, which to me appear essentially
important, I am constrained to differ in opinion with the majority of the court in this case.
1. With respect to the authority of the courts of the United
States to adjudicate upon a controversy and between parties
such as are presented by the record before us. Those courts,
by the Constitution and laws of the United States, are invested
with jurisdiction in controversies between citizens of different
States. In the exercise of this jurisdiction, we are forced to
inquire, from the facts disclosed in the cause, whether during
the existence of the marriage relation between these parties
the husband and wife can be regarded as citizens of'different
States? Whether, indeed, by any regular legal deduction
consistent with that relation, the wife can, as to her civil or
political status, be regarded as a citizen or person ?
By Coke and Blackstone it is said: "That by marriage, the
husband and wife become one person in law; that is, the very
being or legal existence of the woman is suspended during the
marriage, or at least is incorporated or consolidated into that
of the husband, under whose wing and protection she performs
everything. Upon this principle of union in husband and
wife, depend almost all the rights, duties, and disabilities,
that either of them acquire by the marriage. For this reason,
a man cannot gran aDnything to his wife, nor enter into a covenant with her, for the grant would be to suppose her separate
existence, and to covenant with her would be only to covenant with himself; and therefore it is generally true, that all
compacts made between husband and wife, when single, are
voided by the intermarriage." (Co. Lit., 112; Bla. Com., vol.

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

601

Barber v. Barber.

1, p. 442.)

So, too, Chancellor Kent, (vol. 2, p. 128:) "The'

legal effects of marriage are generally deducible from the principle of the common law, by which the husband and wife are
regarded as one person, and her legal existence and authority
in a degree lost and suspended during the existence of the
matrimonial union."
Such being the undoubted law of marriage, how can it be
conceived that pending the existence of this relation the unity
it creates can be reconciled with separate and independent capacities in that unity, such as belong to beings wholly disconnected, and each suijurfis P Now, the divorce a mensa et thoro
does not sever the matrimonial tie; on the contrary, it recognises and sustains that tie, and the allowance of alimony arises
from and depends upon reciprocal dhties and obligations involved in that connection. The wife can have no claim to alimony
but as wife, and such as arises from the performance of her
duties as wife; the husband sustains no responsibilities save
those which flow from his character and obligations as hus,band, presupposing the existence and fulfilment of conjugal
obligations on the part of the wife. It has been suggested
that by the regulations of somi of the States a married woman,
after separation, is permitted to choose a residence in a community or locality different from that in which she resided anterior to the separation, and different from the residence of the
husband. It is presLmed, however, that no regulation, express
or special,"can be requisite in order to create such a permission. This would seem to be implied in the divorce itself; the
purpose of which is, that the wif'e should- no longer remain
srub polestate vir, but should be freed from the control which
had been abused, and should be empowered to select a residence and such associations as would be promotive of her
safety and her comfort. But whether expressed in the decree
for separation, or implied in the divorce, such a privilege does
.not destroy the marriage relation; much less does it remit the
parties, to the position in which they stood before marriage,
and create or revive ante-nuptial, civil, or political rights in
the wife. Both parties remain subject to the obligations and
duties of husbiind and wife. N either can marry during the

SUPREME COURT.
Barber v. Barber.

lifetime of the other, nor do any act whatsoever which is a
wrong upon the conjugal rights and obligations of either.
From these views it seems to me to follow, that a married
woman cannot during the existence of the matrimonial relation, and daring the life of the husband the wife cannot be
remitted to the civil or political position of afeme sole, and
cannot therefore become a citizen of a State or community different from that of which her husband is a member.
2. It is not in accordance with the design and operation of
a Government having its, origin in causes and necessities,
political, general, and external, that it should assume to regulate the domestic relations of society; should, with a kind of
inquisitorial authority, enter the habitations and even into the
chambers and nurseries of private families, and inquire into
and pronounce upon the morals and habits and affections or
antipathies of the members of every household. If such functions are to be exercised by the Federal tribunals, it is important to inquire by what rule or system of proceeding, or according to what standard, either of ethics or police, they are to
be enforced. Within the range subjected to the political,
general, and uniform control of the Federal Constitution, there
are numerous commonwealths, and within these are ordinances
much more numerous and diversified, for the definition and
enforcement of the duties of their respective members. Now,
to which of these ordinances, or to which of these various systems of regulation, will the Federal authorities resort as a
source of jurisdiction, or as a rule of decision, especially when
it is borne in mind that it is only between members of different communities, persons legitimately subject to such separate
rules of obligation 6r policy, that the tribunals of the Federal
Government have cognizance; when, too, it is recollected that
the Federal Government is clothed with no power to execute
the laws of the States. The Federal tribunals can have no
power to control the duties or the habits of the different members of private families -in their domestic intercourse. This
power belongs exclusively to the particular communities ofwhich those families form parts, and is essential to the order
and to the very existence of such communities.

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

603

Barberv. Barber.

It has been suggested, that by the decree for separation a
mensa et there, the husband and wife have become citizens of
different States, and that the allowance to the wife is in the
nature of a debt, which, as a citizen of a different State, she
may enforce against the husband in the Federal courts. This
suggestion, to my-mind, involves two obvious fallacies. The
first is the assumption, that by the decree the wife is made a
citizen at all, or a person suijuris, whilst yet. she is wife, still
bound by her conjugal obligations, the faithful observance
of which, on her part, is the foundation of her claim to maintenance as wife, and which claim she would forfeit at any time
by a violation of these obligations. Indeed, the form of her
application is an acknowledgment that she is not suijuris,and
not released from her conjugal disabilities and obligations, for
she sues by prochein ami.
The second error in the position before mentioned is shown
by the character and objects of the allowance made as alimony
to a wife. This allowance is not in the nature of an absolute
debt, It is not unconditional, but always dependent upon the
personal merits and conduct of the wife-merits and conduct
which must exist and continue, in order to constitute a valid
claim to such an allowance. This allowance might unquestionably be forfeited upon proof of criminality or misconduct
of the wife, who would not be permitted to enforce the payment of that to which it should be shown she had lost all just
claim; and this inhibition, it is presumed, might embrace as
well a portion of that allowance at any time in arrears, as its_
demand in future. The essential character, then, of this al-.
lowance, viz: its being always conditional and, dependent-both
for its origin and sontinuation, upon the circumstances which
produced or justified it, is demonstrative of the propriety and
the necessity of submitting it-to the control of that authority
whose province it wis to judge of those circumstances. That
authority can exist nowhere but with the power and the. right
to control the private and domestic relations of life. The Federal"Government has no Bnch power; it has no commission of
censormorurn over the several States and their people.
But, irrespective of'the disability of the wife as a party, I

SUPREME COURT.
Barber v. Barber.

hold that the courts of the United States, as courts of chancery,
cannot take cognizance of cases of alimony.
It has been repeatedly ruled by this court, that the jurisdiclion and practice in the courts of the United States in equity
are not to be governed by the practice in the State courts, but
that they are to be apprehended and exercised according to the
principles of equity, as distinguished and defined in that country from which we derive our knowledge of those principles.
Such is the law as announced in the cases of Robensonv. Campbell, (3 Wheaton, 212;) of the United States v. Howland, (4
Wheaton, 108;) of Boyle v. Zacharie & Turner, (6 Peters,
648.) It is repeated in the cases of Story v. Livingston, (13
Peters, 359,) and of Gaines v. Relf, (15 Peters, 9.) Now, it is
well known that the court of chancery in England does not
take cognizance of the subject of alimony, but that this is one
of the subjects within the cognizance of the ecclesiastical court,
within whose peculiar jurisdiction marriage and divorce are
comprised. Of these matters, the court of chancery in England claims.no cognizance. Upon questions of settlement or
of contract connected with marriages, the court of chancery
will undertake the enforcement of such contracts, but does not
decree alimony as such, and independently of such contracts.
In Roper, on the Law of Baron and Feme, (vol. 2, p. 30T,) it
is stated that Lord Loughborough, in a case in 1 Vesey, jun.,
196, is reported to have said, that if a wife applied to the court
of chancery upon a supplicavit for security of the peace against
her husband,' and -it was necessary that she should live apart
as incidental to that, the chancellor will allow her separate
maintenance. 'That this passage has been quoted by Sir William Grant in 10 Ves., 397, and that the same opinion was advanced in the case of Lambert v. Lambert, (2 Brown's Parliamentary Cases, p. 26.) "But," c6ntinues this writer, "there
seems to be no reported instance of such a jurisdiction, and it
would be inconsistent with the object and form of the writ of
supplicavit;" and he concludes with the position that "the wife
can only-bbtain a separate maintenance in the ecclesiastical
courts where-alimony is decreed to be paid during the pend-.
eiicy of any suit between husband and wife, and after its

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.
.Barberv. Barber.

termination, if it ends in a sentence of separation on the ground
of the husband's misconduct."
From the above views, it would seem to follow, inevitably,
that as the jurisdiction of the chancery in England does not
extend to or embrace the subjects of divorce and alimony, and
as the jurisdiction of the courts of the United States in chancery is bounded by that of the chancery in England, all power
or cognizance with respect to thuse subjects by the courts of
the United States in chancery is equally excluded.
It has been said that, there being no ecclesiastical court in
the United States, many of the States have assumed jurisdiction over the subjects of divorce and alimony, through the
agency of their courts of equity. The answer to this suggestion is, first, that it concedes the distinction between the character and powers of these different tribunals. In the next
place, it may have been that the jurisdiction exercised by the
State courts may have been conferred by express legislative
grant; or it may have been assumed by those tribunals, and
acquiesced in from considerations of convenience, or from
mere toleration; but whether expressly conferred upon the
State courts, or tacitly assumed by them, their example and
practice cannot be recognised as sources of authority by the
courts of the United States. The origin and the extent of
their jurisdiction must be sought in the laws of the United
States, and in the settled rules and principles by which those
laws have bound them.

