SUPREME COURT.
Mc arty et al. v. Roots et al.

There was no period from the entry and patent of the New
Madrid claim in which that claim was valid. The location
was not only voidable, but it was absolutely void, as it was
made on land subject to a prior right. And under the act of
1822, all New Madrid warrants not located within a year from
that date, were declared to be void.
Whether we look at the confirmatory act of 1836, which
vested the title in the confirmee, or to the New Madrid title
asserted against it, it is clear that the New Madrid title is
without validity, and that the fee is vested in the grantee of
Bell.

JULIAN MCCARTY AND JOHN WYNN, ADmINISTRATORS OF ENOCH
MCCARTY, DECEASED, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. GUERNSEY
ROOTS, ERASTUS P.

COE, AND JOHN

H.

Y.

AYDELOTTE.

Where an accommodation bill of exchange was paid by one of the endorsers, and
there was no special agreement that they should be bound to pay in equal pro
portions as co-sureties, the endorser who took it up had a right to assign it as
collateral security for a pre-existing debt; and the assignee can maintain a suit
against the original payee, who was also an endorser.
The endorser who took up the billwas a trustee; but the plea was defective in not
averring that there remained sufficient funds in the trust estate to pay this bill
after discharging the trust.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of Indiana.
It was a suit brought by Roots, Coe, & Aydelotte, citizens
of Ohio, against Enoch McCarty, a citizen of Indiana.
It vas upon a bill of exchange'drawn by Tyner & Childers,
upon Richard Tyner, of New York, in favor of Enoch McCarty, for $4,500. Tyner accepted the bill, and McCarty endorsed
it to George Holland, who endorsed it to Ezekiel Tyner, who
endorsed it to Roots, Coe, & Aydelotte. It was alleged that
Holland took it up when past due at the Richmond Bank, and
that Holland delivered the bill to the plaintiffs as collateral
security for a pre-existing debt of Richard Tyner.
The nature of the pleas is set forth in the opinion of the
nourt, and the following reference to them will be sufficient:

* DECEMB3ER TEIPM, 1858.

$

MciChnry et al. v. Boot. et al.

Defendant filed eight pleas.
1. The general issue, withdrawn by defendant after 't6e
judgment of the court upon the demurrers.
2. Plaintifss;fled replication; issue joined;, defendant withdraws plea.
3. Plaintiffs demurred to this plea; joinder in demurrer; demurrer sustained.
4. Plaintiffs filed replication; issue joined; defendant with-.
draws plea.
5. Plaintiffs demurred to thig plea; joinder in demurrer; demurrer sustained..
6. Plaintiffs demurred; joinder in demurrer; demurrer overruled; plaintiffs obtained leave to withdraw their demurrer and.
reply; replication filed; defendant demutied to it; joinder in
demurrer; defendant's demurrer to replication over-ruled:
7. Plaintiffs demurred; joinder in demurrer; demurrer sustained; defendant obtained leave to withdraw his joinder in
demurrer, and to amend .plea; amended plea filed; plaintiffis
demurred to it;'joinder in demurrer; demurrer, sustained.
8. Plaintiffs demurred; joinder in demurrer; demurrer sus,
tained.
Upon these rulings of the court, the case was brought up
here, and was submitted on printed argument by Mr. 0. Hf.
Smith for the plaintiffis in error, and .argued by Hr. GuLet for
the defendants.
Mr. Srmith's points were the following:*
1. That as the bill was received by the appelle'es after it'wai
due, and dishonored, they took it with notice that it was subject to all prior equities between the parties. (Byles on Bills,
129, 130, and numerous authorities, tit. Transfer.)
2. That this case rests upon the same legal defence that
could be set up in a suit between the endorsers of the bill as to
their equities, if the actioii had been brought by one of them,
after paying the bill, against the defendants. (The 'same auo.
thorities as above.)
3. That co-sureties are liable t6 contribution as between
VOL. xx.
28

SUPREME COURT.
Mc Carly et al. v. Rootb et al.

themselves, after the payment of+'- e bill.

(Byles on Bills, 199;

Kemp v. Finder, 12 M. and W., 421; and authorities cited to
fourth position.)
4. That if one co-surety takes up the bill, he cannot maintain an action upon it against a co-surety, but may use it as
evidence of the amount paid, in an action of assumpsit for
money laid out and expended, in which he may recover in
contribution the equitable pro rata proportion of the money he
has actually paid, from his co-surety. (Done v. Whalley, 17
L. J., 225; Exch. 2 Exch., Rep. 198, S. C.; Gale v. Wash, 5
T. R., 239; Rogers v. Stephens, 2 T. R., 713; Orr v. Maginnis, 7 East., 359.)
5. That although the endorsers are primafacie liable to each
other, in the order in which their names stand upon the bill,
yet it lies in averment in the pleadings that they are co-sureties, and parol proof is admissible, as between them, to show
the true state of their liability. The same principle applies
in suits brought by an endorsee of the bill against' a remote
endorser, when the bill was taken after it was due and dishonored. (14 Vesey, 170; Byles on Bills, 192, and notes, Ed.
1853; 9 Met., 511; 7 Cush., 404; 4 N. H., 221; 5 Denio,
307; 9 Ala., 949; 28 Maine, 280; 34 ib., 549; 5 How., 278;
21 Pick., 195; 2 Selden, N. Y., 33; 2 Ired., 597; 18 Ohio R.,
441.)
6. That if the principal places funds or property in the
hands of one co-surety, sufficient to pay the bill in trust for that
purpose, and such co-surety takes up the bill from the holder,
he cannot sue his co-surety on the bill, nor for contribution,
until he has exhausted the assets in his hands of the principal.
(8 Pick., 155; 16 Ala., 455; 21 ib., 779; Adams's Equity, Ed'
1855.)
7. That time given by the holder to one co-surety for the
payment of the bill, to the prejudice of another co-surety, upon
a contract binding upon the holder, witbout the a~sent of the
other co-surety, discharges such other co-surety from liability
upon the bill. (9 Conn., 261; 2 Wheaton, 253; 2 Story, 416;
21 Wendell, 108; 2 McLean, 111 ; 10 N. H., 859 ; 18 Conn.,
861; 3 McLean, 74.) It is admitted that these authorities

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

435

HcCarty et at. v. Roots et al.

speak of principal and surety, but we maintain that the principles decided apply to the holder and a co-surety, the case before this court.
8. That after q bill is taken up from the holder by a co-surety, it is no longer available in the hands of such co-surety,.or
his endorsee, who takes it with notice, after due and dishonored, so as to enable such co-surety taking up the bill, or such
endorsee, to maintain an action on the bill against any other cosurety. (7 N. H., 202; 2 Ired., 417; 24 Maine, 336.)
9. That a plea can only be demurred to specially for duplicity, in which case the demurrer must point out the duplicity
specially; and if the plaintiff, instead of demurring, replies to
the plea, his replication must answer so much of the plea as it
assumes to'answer; and if it assumes to answer the whole
plea, and only answers a part, it is bad on denurrer. (1 Chitty Plead., 228, 229; ibid, 668, Ed. 1855; 2 Johns., 433; 20
Pick., 356; 10 East., 79; 1 Saunders, 100, note 1, title Qualities of Replication ; 1-Chitty Plead., 643; and authorities, Ed.
1855.)
10. It is no ground of even special demurrer, that a plea
contains surplusage; the doctrine of utile, per irutile non vitiatur, (1 Chitty Plead., 547,) applies.
Mr. Gillet's point were the following:
1. The legal liabilityof the drawer, acceptor, and endorsers,
of a bill, is determined by the act of drawing, accepting, endorsing, demand, and notice.
If these things h'ave occurred in the ordinary mode of such
matters, the legal liability is fixed, rnd can only be avoided by
showing some fraud or illegality in the creation of the bill, or
some positive act of discharge.
2. Contracts in writing, binding between the parties to them,
cannot be changed by parol understandings or agreements
made at the time of making such contracts. (Thompson v.
Ketchum, 8 Johns. R., 192; Robishat v. Folse, 11 Louisiana;
Barthet v. Esterbene, 5 La. Annual, 315; Brochemore v. Davenport, 14 Texas R., 602; Bank of the United States v..
Dunn, 6 Pet., 56; Brown v. Wiley, 20 How., 442.)

436

SUPREME COURT.
Me Carty et al. v.RBoots et a.

3. If the endorsers had an agreement, valid between themselves' as to sharing equally the loss occasioned by their endorsements, such agreement only affected themselves, and did
not run with the bills so as to affect their legal liabilities, as
to the holders of the bills in question.
If there had been such ai agreement as the defendant wishes
to have inferred, which he does not aver, and it had been binding among themselves, and Holland, or any one of the parties
to it, had refused to carry it into effect, the defendant could
not take advantage of it in the mode now attempted, but must
enforce it by action against the refusing party.
There is no intimation in the plea that Holland agreed to
take ap the bill, and discharge it, and look either to the trust
fund or to the other endorsers for contribution. Nor is it pretended that the .plaintiffs knew of such an agreement. If defendant shall pay the whole bill, then he can look to the parties to that agreement to refund their proportions.
But if the agreement assumed to have been made runs with
the note, then the defendant would still be responsible for his
share as one of the endorsers. In that event, the plaintiffs
must recover the one-fourth thereof, upon the defendant's own
theory, though it is clearly an incorrect one.
But the defendant has not set out an agreement, either with
or without consideration. by which Holland relinquished and
changed his rights, as subsequent endorser, to call upon the
defendant as a prior endorser f6r the full amount of his liability.
On the face of the contract, (the bill, non-payment, and
notice,) defendant was liable for the whole anmount thereof.
He can enforce this contract, unless it hai been discharged by
payment, or by a new valid agreement changing the- original
liability. To make such an agreement, it must be in writing,
and be upon a lawful and sufficient consideration. No such
agreement is even hinted at in the pleadings, much less averred, so as to be issuable. It follows, that there was nc change
of the original contract or liability, and consequently the defendant is liable, and the plaintiffs are entitled to recover.
It is therefore clear that the eighth plea is bad, and the de.
murrer to it must be sustained.

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.
2e Carty a7. v. Boots d al.

Mr Justice McLEAI delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the District Court of Indiana.
The action was brought on a bill of exchange for $4,500,
.lated October 16, 1854, drawn by Tyner & Childers, of Peru,
Indiana, 'n Richard Tyner, of New York, and made, payable
to the defendant sixty-days 'after date, at the office of Winslow,'
Lanier, & Co., in the city of 1New'York; which bill, at sight,.
was accepted by the drawee, and afterwards by the payee as-signed to one Holland, Who subsequently assigned it to Ezekiel Tyner, by whom it was aftrwards assigned to the plahi-_
tiffs. Payment of the bill was refused at maturity, and it was
protested for non-payment.. Due notice was given.
The defendant pleaded eight pleas in bar of the action; the
first, second, and fourth, being withdrawn, it is only necessary
to notice the third, fifth, .sixth, seventh, and eighth.
The third plea states that George Holland, who is ne of the
endorsers and co-sureties thereof, before the commencement
of this suit, on the 21st day of December, 1854, fully paid the
bill to the Richmond branch of the State Bank of Indiana, who
was then and there the holder and owner of the same; add.
that the plaintiffs received the*same after they became due,
and were so paid.
This plea assumes that one of the endorsers and co-sureties
paid the bill. In McDonald v. Magruder, (3.Peters, 470,) and
in Wilson o. Blackford, (507,) the doctrine was laid down that
co-sureties are bound to contribute equally to the debt they
havejointly undertaken to pay; but the undertaking must be
joint, not separate and successive. The liabilities must arise
from the endorsements, and not from a distinct agreement, to
pay the face of the bill jointly; the plea does not necessarily
import a joint undertaking ; the facts on which the joint liability is founded must be stated. Oh the payment of the bill
by the endorser, it does not cease to be assignable.
The llegations in the fifth plea are not sufficient to bar the
action. Several of the matters so stated have no direst bearing on the points made. The various parties to an accommodation bill, where no consideration has passed as aihong themselves, are not, unless by special agreement, bound to pay in

SUPREME COURT.
I Carty et al. v. Roots e al.

equal proportions- as co-sureties. The averments of the plea
are defective in not stating there was an agreement between
the drawers and endorsers of the bills of exchange to contribute
equally in paying theib.
Nor does the fact that the bills were assigned to the plaintiff
as collateral security for a pre-existing debt, impair the plaintiff's right to recover.
The sixth plea alleges that no consideration passed between
said drawer, acceptor, or endorsers, for said bills, and that the
same remained in the hands of R. Tyner until negotiated by
him to the Richmond Bank, for his benefit. And afterwards,
and before said bills became due, to wit: on the 1st of October, 1854, R. Tyner, Tyner & Childers, and E. Tyner & Co.,
failed, and made a general assignment of their property, rights,
&c., to Holland, Abner McCarty, and R. H. Tyner; and Holland accepted the trust, and became the active trustee; that the
assignments were made for the debts and liabilities, first, to
indemnify and save harmless Abner McCarty; second, to indemnify and save harmless Holland, said plaintiff, and N. D.
Gallion, in proportion to their respective liabilities, and next.
for the payment of other debts and trusts. The property so
assigned is averred to have been of the value of one hundred
and fifty thousand dollars, and amply sufficient to pay the bills
in suit, &c., and that Holland, on July 1, 1855, delivered said
bills, endorsed in blank to said plaintiE; as collateral security
for a pre-existing debt of Richard Tyner to said plaintiff, all of
which was known to the-plaintiff.
To this plea the plaintiff replied, that the said E. Tyner &
Co. did not, each nor either ot them, make an assignment of
their property, rights, credits, or effects, to the said Holland,
McCarty, and Tyner, as stated in sixth plea of the defendant;
but it is true that the said Richard Tyner, in 1854, made an
assignment of said property, rights, and effects, to the said Holland, McCarty, and Tyner, and in trust: first, to indemnify
and save harmless the said Abner McCarty as a creditor and
surety of- the said Richard Tyner; second, to indemnify and
save harmless the said-Holland, N. D. Gallion, Ezekiel Tyner,
and the said plaintiff, as creditors and securities; but the plain-

DECEMKBER TERM, 1858.

439

HcCarty e al. v. Roots et a.
tiff says the propery, rights, credits, and effects, so assigned to
the said Holland, McCarty, and Richard H. Tyner, were and
still are wholly insufficient in value to indemnify and-save harmless the said McCarty as such creditor and sutety, so that there
are now no effects or money of the said R. Tyner from which
the bill could be paid, or any part thereof.
- This replication was demurredto, but it was sufficient, and
the demurrer was properly overruled.
In the seventh plea, which was amended, an agreement is
alleged between the bank and Holland, that if Holland would
give his notes to the bank, bearing six per cent. interest, with
real and personal security, payable by instalments on the 1st
day of January, 1856, 1857, and 1858, the bank would extend
the times of payment as above stated, which was agreed to by
Holland, the bank being then the holder of the bills; and that
this was done without the consent or knowledge of defendant.
And it is further alleged that the above bills were, after due,
delivered to said plaintiff by said Holland, as collateral security
for a pre-existing liability of said Holland, and for no other
consideration.
To this plea there was a demurrer on the ground that there
was no agreement between Holland, E. Tyner & Co., and the
defendant, that on the failure of Richard Tyner to pay the bills
of exchange, Holland, E.Tyner& Co., and the defendant, jointly
or in equal proportions, should pay them. There was no sufficient averment to this effect. The delivery, of the bills to the
plaintiff, as collateral security for a pre-existing debt, under
the decision of Swift v. Tyson, was legal. The demurrer was.
I roperly sustained.
In.
his eighth, plea, the defendant says that the bills of exchange, in the declara.tion mentioned, are one and the same
identical fiills, and not other or different; that defendant never
endorsed but one bill of the amount and date stated. He further -says, that the firm of Tyner & Childers consisted of Richard Tyner, James tq.Tyner, and William Childers; and that
of E. Tyner & Co., of Richard Tyner, and Ezekiel Tyner, and
Childers; and that said R. Tyner drew said bill in the name of
Tyner & Childers, and accepted the same in his own name, and

440

SUPREME COURT.
Xcbart'j d al v. .Roob et d.

endorsed the same in the name of E. Tyner & Co.; that each
of the parties, with the said George Holland and this defendant, were; at the time of drawing, accepting, and endorsing, citizens of Indiana; that the bill of exchange was discounted by
the said bank, and the proceeds paid to Richard Tyner; that
said endorsers were co-sureties thereon; and it was understood
the said defendants, the said George Holland and Ezekiel
Tyner, were each to be co-sureties, and liable to pay q pro rata
share of said bill; and each of said parties have, since the
endorsing of said bill, admitted a liability, with the others, in
case of insolvency of prior parties, for whose benefit said bill
was so made to contribute towards payment.
And the defendant further says, that, before the bill became
payable, the said Tyner & Childers, and the said R. Tyner and
E. Tyner & Co., failed, and each of said firms made made a
general assignment of lands, goods, property, and effects, of
the value of $1,000 to $5,000, to one H. J. Shirk: first, to pay
depositors; second, debts for which A. McCarty and Holland
were liable; and also for the payment of debts to plaintiffs, and
liabilities to them, the said R. Tyner assigned property and
effects, amounting in value to between $60,000 and $150,000,
to Holland, McCarty, and R. Tyner, in trust: first, to indemnify and save harmless Abner McCarty; and, second, this defendant and George Holland, the said plaintiffs, and N. D. Gallion, in proportion to their respective liabilities for him, and
then for payment of other debts upon other trusts; and Holland became active for the execution of the trust, and took up
of the Richmond Bank the bill of which it was holder, and by
giving new notes of the said Holland for this and other debts
of the said Tyner and Holland, and others, amounting to ovei
$20,000, which sums were payable subsequently, with interest,
and secured by mortgage on real estate conveyed by Holland
to the bank, all of which was dofie without the consent or
knowledge of the defendant.
And the defendant says that Holland, still being one of the
trustees of said R. Tyner, and having property in his hands
upon the trust aforesaid of greater value than the amount of
the bills, afterwards, on the 1st of July, 1855, at the .ounty

DECEMBETR TERM, 1858.

441

Pearcev. adison & IndianapoZli 1. R. Co. and Peru& IndianapolisR. B. Co.

aforesaid, delivered said bills to the plaintiffs as collateral security for a pre-existing debt of. the said R. Tyner, on which
the said Holland was endorser. And the defendant says the
moneys in said bills of exchange have not yet been paid by
the said Holland, or any one on his behalf. To this plea. there
was a demurrer.
This plea but .-reiterates in effect the' same defences which
have already been disposed of in deciding upon the demurrers.
before noticed, and it is not perceived how any additional force
can be given to them by being grouped together'in one plea.
The fact that these parties were accommodation endorsers
does ndt make them co-sureties, bound to contribute equally
to the payment of the bills, without a special agreement to that
effect; and there is no sufficient averment that any such agreement existed..
The averments in regard to the assignment are also defective, for they nowhere show that Holland had, at any time,
sufficient funds in his hands, after complying with the terms of
the trust-viz: to save Abner McCarty and others harmlessto pay this bill; and unless such a state of fact existed, there
could be nothing in his hands made available for the bills.
If the fact should appear that these partids are bound to each
other by .a separate and distinct agreement, other than that
which appears by the endorsements upon the bills, the plaintiff in error will have his remedy in an action of indebitatus
assumpsit against the other parties to the bills. But we think
the averments in the pleas, noticed are wanting in precision,
and do not bring the case within the ruleof special agreements,
which impose a joint obligation.
The demurrers are sustained, and the judgment is affirmed.

SAMUEL PEARCE, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR,. v. THE MADISON AND
INDIANAPOLIS RAILROAD COMPANY AND THE PERU AND IN-

DIANAPOLIS RAIRQAD COMPANY
Where two separate corporations were created to make railroads,'they had'no
I right to urite and conduct their business under on6 management; nor had

