SUPREME COURT.
Comngton Drawbridge Company et al. v. Shepherd et al.

"If the jury find, that after his death (the death of the husband) she (Mrs. Kohne) returned to her former domicil in
Charleston, took possession of the house and servants devised
to her, lived in that house six or seven months of every year,
calling it her home, spending only a few weeks in the spring
and fall in her house here, and the remainder of the summer
at watering-places, cohnng north in the summer for the sake
of her health, always intending to return to her house in
Charleston, that she was hindered returning the last time from
sickness, if she consulted counsel how she might avoid giving
any pretence to the tax-gatherers of Pennsylvania tc treat her
as domiciled here, if she. carefully denied at all times her citizenship in Philadelphia, even to erasing it from printed lists
of her church donations, as the assertion of a falsehood, if she
refused to have some of her furniture removed here, for fear
such a fact would be seized upon, after her death, for the purpose of asserting her domicil here, if she called herself, in her
will, 'of Charleston,' if, when absent from that place, she always spoke of returning to it as her home, and did return to
it as such, till hindered by sickness-if the jury believed this
evidence of defendant's witnesses, testimony which has not
been contradicted or denied, it would be absurd to say her
domicil was not where she asserted it to be, to wit, in the city
of Charleston."
Regarding this portion of the charge as tending to confound
the powers of the court and the jury, I think that the judgment of the Circuit Court should be reversed, and the case remanded for a new trial.
THE COVINGTON DRAWBRIDGE COMPANY AND RICHARD M. NE.EKER, APPELLANTS, v. ALEXANDER

0.

SHEPHERD AND OTHERS.

The decision of this court in 20 Howard, 227, as to what averment in the declaration is sufficient to give jurisdiction to the caurts of the United. States, again
affirmed.
Where there was a judgment at law against a bridge company, under which the
tolls were sold in execution, a court of equity has power to cause possession
to be taken of the bridge, to appoint a receiver to collect tolls, and pay them
into court, to the end of discharging the judgment at law.

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

118

Comngton Drawbridge Comyany et aZ. v. Shpherd e a
THIs was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of Indiana.
The facts of the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
As the decree of the Circuit Court was affirmed, and directed to be carried into execution, it may be proper to state what
that decree was, viz:
"It is therefore ordered, adjudged, and decreed, -that John
MlcManaway be, and he is hereby, appointed a receiver of the
tolls and revenues of the said Covington Drawbridge Company; that he enter upon, and, by himself, his agents, and ser"vants, possess himself of and, control the said bridge, absolutely, and free from all let and hindrance of the said Covington
Drawbridge Company, their agents Qnd servants, and other
persons whatsoever. And it is further ordered, adjudged, and
decreed, that during the time the said John McManaway shall
be the receiver of the said tolls and revenues of said bridge,
the said company shall in no wise molest or disturb the said
receiver in the possession thereof, or in the reception of the
tolls and profits thereof, and that said receiver may and shall
receive the same tolls provided for in section three of the act
of the General Assembly of the State of Indiana, approved
January 15th, 1850, incorporating said company Said receiver shall keep a daily account of his receipts and expenditures, which shall be open to the inspection of the parties. It
is further ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that it shall be the
duty of the said receiver, by himself and other qualified person or persons, during that time that the Wabash river may
be navigable for steamboats, to raise or otherwise remove the
draw in said bridge when boats are approaching, by night or
day,, and it shall be the further duty of said receiver to cause
lights to be placed on each side of the draw of said drawbridge, when the said river is so navigable; and it shall be the
further duty of the said receiver to keep the said bridge in
suitable and necessary repairs, the expenses of which shall be
paid and borne by the said receiver out of the tolls and income of said bridge, as well as his own fees and charges for
the discharge of his said duty as receiver. And it is further
ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that the said receiver shall,
VOL. XXI.

8

SUPREME COURT.
Comngton, Drawbridge Company et al. v. Shepherd et al.

from time to time, at least as often as every three months, pay
whatever sum of money there may.then have accumulated in
his hands of the tolls and- income of said bridge, over and
above the expenses as aforesaid, to the complainants herein,
in a pro rata proportion upon their respective judgments in
the complaint mentioned, and, further, that the said receiver
d? at each succeeding term of this court, report thereto his
entire actings and doings in and about his said receivership,
provided, that oefore said receiver shall enter upon his said
duties, and take possession of said bridge, he shall take an
oath well and faithfully to perform hi said duties, to be endorsed on his bond next mentioned, and that he shall, with
one or more freehold securities, to be approved by H. C. Newcomb, master in chancery, within thirty days, enter -into a
penal bond in the sum of ten thousand dollars, payable to the
State of Indiana, conditioned for the faithful performance of
his duties and trusts imposed upon him by this order, which
oond upon breach thereof shall be for the benefit of either party interested."
An appeal from this decree brought the case up to this
court, where it was submitted on printed arguments by Mr. 0.
.T Smith for the appellants, and Mr Thompson for the appellees.
The first point raised hy Mlfr Smith was relative to the jurisdiction. Probably his argument was printed before the decision of this court, as reported-in 20 Howard, 227, reached
him.
The novelty-of the question in-this court, as-to the power of
a court of chancery has induced the r porter-to take particular notice of the remaining points in the case.
Mr Smith contended.
Third. Although the judgments and executions may not have
been salisfied by the levy and sale stated in the return- at law, still
they placed the property qf the execution defendant7 in the custody if
the law, sufiient in amount to satisfy the judgment, with ample leqal
powers to make the money, by process at law, and a court of chan-

DECEMBIER TERM; 1858.

115

Comngton Drawbridge Company et al. v. Shepherd et al.

cery will not entertamjurisdictionrn aid of proceedings in a court of
law until the legal remedy s exhausted. The remedy at law is
ample, and a court of chancery will not take jurisdiction.
Coe v. Turner, 5 Conn. R., 86.
Wisnell v.'tHall, 3 Paige, 813.
Reese v. Parish, 1 MeCord, 59.
Bird v. Rolaboard, 2 Root, 35.
Wolcot v. Sullivan, 6 Paige, 117
Baker v. Biddle, Baldwin R., 894.
Fourth. If the following question should be raised by the
appellees in their brief, as it was in the Circuit Court, and
this court should deem it material to be decided, then I maintain the affirmative as being the law"
Could the bridge be levied upon by the executions at law,
the rents and profits appraised and sold, as was done in ths
case? Can there be any doubt about it? By the laws of the
State of Indiana, all property of the execution defendants is
subject to execution, unless especially excepted. The only
legal question is, whether this drawbrdge s property of the execution defendants. That is not questioned, in fact, by either side,
but it may be said by the execution plaintiffs, that they could
not enjoy the mridge by collecting tolls, without exercising the'
franchise, which they could not do unless it could be sold with
the bridge, and they become the purchaser. To this I answer,
that the bridge, with the right to exercise the. franchise and
take tolls, would unquestionably be worth more than the
bridge without that right, but this is only a question for the
appraisers,before the sale, and does not affect the main question,
whether the bridge, or the rents and profits, can be levied
upon, appraised, and sold, under an execution at law, for what
it is worth. It may prove injurious to the execution defendants, but so long as they do not complain, who shall be heard
in a court of chancery, or in this court, to complain? If the
appraisement was too high, or took into consideration rights
that did not belong to the bridge, as property, the execution
'plaintiffs could have moved the court at law to set aside the
levy or appraisement. But they have not done so, and the
levy andappraisementstandwithout objection, as a part of the record,

SUPREME COURT.
Comngion Drawbridge Compang et a. v. Slzerd e al.

authorizing the appellees to complete their purchase, or to
issue writs of venditionzexponas, to sell the property again at
law, and satisfy their judgments. Their remedy at law ts com-plete.
Fifth. But, as the further question may arise, and be
deemed by the court important to be decided, although I cannot so consider it in thins case, where the property levied upon
is amply sufficient-that is, whether the franchise can be levied
upon with the bridge, and the whole property appraised and sold
upon the execution at law. I maintain the affirmative of this
question, which I admit is one of much importan'ce to the
credit of corporation securities, -aswell as to the rights of their
creditors. The question is, substantially,whether the general execution laws of the -State of Indiana shall be applied in all cases between
debtor and creditor, on judgments at law, including corporations,new
cases as they arise, as well as old, or shall an exception, not in the
law, exempting from execution certain property of corporations, be
made by the court? At common law, real estate was not subject
to sale on execution, and. has only been so subjected within
the present century In England, until within the time of the
present generation, there were no trading corporations of the
sort to require such remedies. At common law, therefore, in
England, there are no precedents to which we can refer, but
there are principles that must govern the question.
1. All grants are subject to the law of the land m force at the time
the grant is made.
2. What is afranchise? A franchise is a portion of the sovereignty, a part of the eminent domain, granted by the public
for the public good, only to be used by the grantees, in the
manner prescribed for the object of the grant, but not consecrated and placed as a sovereign above the ordinary laws and
remedies of the land, as many seem to suppose. At common
law, this franchise was also an exclusive privilege, as in the case
of manor, mills, and like cases. All corporations are said to
have a franehise, but the ordinary rights of corporations are
not parts of the eminent domain-the privilege to have a common name and common seal, a perpetual succession, and by
such common name to sue, to contract, to hold real estate, and

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.
Comngton Drawbridge Company et aZ. v.

Twpherd d al.

to sell the same, qr to make by-laws for the government of the
members. These privileges are no part of the eminent domain,
but only extensions, to individuals collectively, of rights appertaining of common right to each.
Mr. Justice Woodbury, in 6 Howard 539, 540, West River
Bridge v. Dix, says: The laws of the land are virtually a part
and condition of the grant itself, as much as if inserted in'it
totidem verbzs.
Town v. Smith, 1 Woodb. and Minot, 134.
1 Howard, 319.
2 Howard, 608, 617
8 Story on Const., 1377, 1378.
It is on this principle that the ee'rcise of the eminent domain over franchises has been sustained, otherwise, such exercise would be a breach of the contract implied in grant of the
fianchise, and a violation of the Constitution of the United
States.
West River Bridge Co. v. Dix, 6 Howard, 507
Enfield Toll Bridge Co. v. Harts and N. H. R., 17 Conn.,
40S.C.
2 Amer, R. R. Cases, 69 S. C., 95.
Beekman v. Sar. and Schen. R. R. Co., 3 Paige R., 45.
Billings v. Prov Bank, 4 Peters, 514.
In 4 Peters, 514, it is said by Chief Justice Marshall. "The
great object of an incorporation is to bestow the character and!
properties of individuality on a collected and changing body of
men, any privilege which may exempt it from the burdens
commobn to individuals do not flow necessarily. from the charter, but must be expressed in it, or they do not exist." -In other
words, corporations, unless expressly exempitid, are subject to
all the burdens imposed by the lawsof the land on individuals.
The rule. is not to be confined. to cases within the eminent domain,-or to the taxing powers. -It-applies to -all cases which,
in the opinion of the legislative power, its. application is necessarily for the 'public good. A franchise may or may not be a
portion of the emiiien.tdom~in., But afranchise is property "We.are a-ware of nothing peculiar to-afranehise, which can
class it higher .orrender it more sacred than -other property

SUPREME COURT.
Cvtnglon Drawbridge Company etal. v. , kepherd et aZ.

A franchise is property, and nothing more. It is incorporeal
property, and is so defined by Blackstone, 2 Com., chap. 3, p.
20."
West River Bridge Co. v. Dix, 6 Howard, 534.
See the opinion of Justice Woodbury, same case, 541, 542.
As property, a franchise may be divided, leased, mortgaged,
sold, (Gunning on Tolls, 106, 110, 6 Barn. and Cress., 703,
5, 875, 3 Maule and Sel., 247, 1 Comp. and Jervis, 57,) and it
is property by grant, taken subject to the general laws of the
laud, in force at the time of the grant, at least.
The question now arises "Is a. franchise subject to execution at law by the laws of Indiana?" "The property, rights,
credits, and effects, of the defendants, are subject to execution."
(2 vol. Rev Stat. of 1852, see. 134, 433.) There is only one
exception, and that does not exempt a corporation aebtor or
its franchise. By see. 438, a debt can be levied upon and sold
only when "given up by the defendant;" but no property,
either corporeal or individual, isexempted, except a limited
amount of personal property, in favor of families, and such
has at all times been substantially the law of the State of indiana. Franchises are not personal property, and of course could
not be sold in England by aft. fa. as goods and chattels. But
undoubtedly the rents, and profits of ferries, and markets, and
mills, and the rents and profits of other real estate, have always been subject to seizure in England.
In Indiana, on ajudgment against the owner of a ferry, if you
sell the land, the ferry right will pass to the purchaser, with
the land, as it is appendant thereto, and caunot exist without
it. So with the sale of a mill, where the seat has been condemned, the purchaser takes the property with the privileges
of keeping up the dam and taking tolls under the State law
But in Indiana there must be an appraisement of the property,
and that assessment will be of the real estate and the right to
exercise the franchise, the rents and profits being first valued,
and first sold, as the franchise held by an individual, in a will
or ferry, is subject to sale with the property, and descends to
heirs. Why does not the same principle apply to a toll bridge,
held by a corporation, where the legal tolls are fixed by law,

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

119

Covington Drawbridge Conrpany et al. v. Shep erd et aZ.

as m this case 9 The decision of the court in the case of the
West River Bridge, .(6 How., 533,) is referred'to as directly in
point.
If -it
were shown that corporations in Indiana are exempt
from the execution laws of the State, and as such protected
in their property from levy and sale, and that consequently
they form an exception to the general laws that govern
other debtors, relieving them from the payment of their
debts, there would be an end of the question, but as such is
not the case, it is submitted that their property, including the
franchise, is subject to appraisement and sale,-as was done ir,
this case at law, and therefore the appellees have no equity on
that ground alone, and the decree of the Circuit Court should
have dismissed the bill at the cost of the complainants below
I maintain, further, that the appellants, being the execution
defendants at law, are the only party that can raise the question, whether this property can be sold at law; and as they
wsst that it shall be so sold, and as it has been so sold, it does
not lie with the appellees, the execution plaintiffs, to say that
the property in question was not subject to be sold at law
They do not deny but that it has been levied upon at their 2nstance, and appraised and sold, and the levy and appraisement
returned, nor is it material to the question whether the purchaser shall pay for the property and receive a deed or certificate of purchase, or not, as a vendiiionz exponas can issue upon
the return, at any subsequent time, yending-which, and before
another sale, the levy, appraisement, and return, are a prnma
facie satisfactionof the judgments. Therefore there can be no
equity in the case, and the decree of the Circuit Court should
be reversed, with directions to the court to dismiss the bill.
Jfr Thompson's reply to the latter points was as follows.
The fourth assignment of errors, that the court erred in overruling the demurrer to the original bill, in effect raised for the
consideration of the court the who!s question in the case, viz:
Has the court of chancery jurisdiction to appoint a receiver
of the rents and profits of a corporation defendant which is
insolvent, or has no available real estate except that which is

SUPRETMNE COURT.
Comngton Drawlridge Company et aZ. v. Shepherd et aZ.

derived from the use of its franchise? That the court has such
power, and that it has at all times been exercised for the advancement of justice, the repeated decisions of the courts will
show

The case of Fripp v. The Chard Railway Company, is an
authority for all we ask here.
21 Eng. L. and Eq. Rep., 53.
It appears from the bill in this case, and it is not denied,
that all the possible ways or means which the complainants have
of making their debt or judgments is out of the defendants'
bridge. That is all the property the defendants have. They
say, "there is the bridge, take it." If it was clear that the
plaintiff could regard the brdge as real estate, and sell it
under the Indiana execution laws, by exposing the rents and
profits to sale, and that the purchaser could enjoy those rents
and profits upon the purchase, or, if the purchaser of the
bridge could keep it up, and receive the tolls, then the plaintiffs might have an adequate remedy at law
Kebeker, in his answer, put in under oath, states that the
company has no right to the soil upon which the bridge stands,
it is at most in the allegation of the bill but a mere easement-nothing that the execution or plaintiffs could make out
of it, by sale. If the bridge is real estate, then the rents and
profits are to be sold, if personal, then the rents and profits
could not be sold. What kind of property is it?
The complainants say that the bridge is valueless, except rn
connection with the franchuse-the rght to take tolls. Nebeker answers, that he is advised and believes that the franchise cannot
be sold nor exercised by third persons, except by consent'of
the corporation.
The Circuit Court of Indiana has adopted the statute of that
State, requiring the appraisement of property upon execution
sales. If the property is real estate, the rents and profits have
to be appraised as well as the fee, and the fee cannot be offered
as long as the rents and profits are sufficient, at two-thirds their
appraised i alue, to pay the debt. If the bridge is personal
property, then two-thirds of $70,000 would have to be paid for
the bridge, which the purchaser couid not lawfully maintain

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

121

Comngton Drawbridge Company et al. v. Ske~pherd et al.

one hour over or upon that public highway, the Wabash river.
So that the court can see that this bridge company has brought
the complainants to a "dead lockrand they have no other
adequate remedy but a receiver.
The grant in this case being to three persons, if they sell out
their bridge, or it is sold out by execution, the bridge becomes
the property of a private individual, and the charter of the
defendauts is forfeited, and the existence of the company will
be, by fl-eact, terminated.
In the matter of Highway, 2 New Jersey, 293.
In the case of Macon and Western RailWay v. Parker, (9
Geo., 377,) it is doubted whether a railroad is subject to levy
and saje. It is said it would expose the property to sacrifice,
be detrimental to the interests of creditors, and defeat the objects and intentions of the Legislature in granting the charter.
In North Carolina (State v. Rives, 5 Iredell, 297) it is held,
that the tangible property of a railroad could be sold, but that
its franchise could not. A turnpike road cannot be sold on
execution.
Ammans v. New Alexander Turnpike Co., 13 Rawle, 210.
In this case, the grant was to the corporators for the benefit
of the public. The public were to use the bridge, and these
corporators were intrusted with the important duty of keeping
and maintaining it over the navigable waters of the Wabash
river, so as not to obstruct the navigation thereof.
There is no equity with the defendants. It is evident they
were baffling and trifling with the complainants. They are in
the possession of a large annual sum of rents and profits, worth,
in the opinion of the appraislrs, $7,000 per annum, and sworn
by Nebeker to be from $620 to $1,817 per quarter. With these
moneys the plaintiffs' judgments could readily be paid, were it
not for the unconscientious resistance of the defendants.
The decree of the court, in appointing the receiver, was of
the most favorable character to the defendants. It provided
for conforming, in every respect, with the charter of the defendants, and by it the clomplainants were constrained to wait for
their pay until it waS earned in tolls at the bridge. Not many
debtors can impose upon their creditors such delay as that; but

122

SUPREME COURT.
Congton Drawbridge Company et al. v. Skeiherd et al.

so it is, by their peculiar charter the plaintiffs have no other
remedy
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
In December, 1854, Shepherd and others recovered a judgment against the Covington Drawbridge Company, for upWards of six thousand dollars. At the same time, Davidson
recovered a judgment against the same company for upwards
of a thousand dollars.
The corporation was created by an act of the Legislature of
Indiana, and built a drawbridge over the -abash river, in
that State, pursuant to its charter; was sued for a tort in the
Circuit Court of the United States for Indiana district, where
the recoveries were had. Executions at law were regularly
issued, and at March term, 1855, of that court, were returned
by the marshal, "nothing found." Alias writs offi.fa. were
taken out and levied on the bridge as real estate, and in November, 1855, the marshal proceeded to sell the rents and
profits of the same on Davidson s judgment for the term of one
year, at the sum of $4,666.62, Davidson, the execution creditor, becoming the purchaser. The agent of Shepherd and
others instructed the marshal not to sell the bridge oii their
judgment, and he returned the special facts. Davidson demanded possession of the bridge from the corporation, so that
he might obtain the tolls, but the keeper of the bridge, and a
princilpal owner of the stock, refused to surrender possession.
In May, 1856, Shepherd, and those interested in the large judgment jointly with Davidson, filed their bill in equity in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the district of Indiana,
against the bridge company and Richard M. Nebeker as
keeper, agent, aiid manager, of the bridge, praying that the
court should appoint a-suitable receiver to take possession of
the same, and roceive.the tolls and income, and apply them to
discharge the judgnicits at law, after defraying expenses. The
court made the decree prayed for, from which the bridge company appealed to this court.
The first objection made to the decree is, that it does not
appear by the bill that the defendant is properly described as

DECEMBER TERM, p858.

128

Covngton Drawbridge Company et al. v. Shephera et al.

incorporated by the State of Indiana. The bill alleges that
"The Covington Drawbridge Company of Zovington, is a
corporation and citizen of the State of Indiana," and it is also
insisted, that the judgments at law are void, because jurisdiction was not given to the United States courts by the averment of citizenship in either of the declarations. The judg
ment at law, in Shepherd's case, was brought before this court
at the last term, when it was held that the averment of citizenship here objected to was sufficient. (20 Howard, 227.)
That decision is conclusive of the two foregoing exceptions.
The consideration whether by a creditor s bill corporate
property and franchises can be subjected to pay the debts of
the corporation, by taking possession and adnmnistering its
afihirs, and drawing to the court its revenues, is a question of
great importance and some difficulty In advance of this
question, it is insisted here that there exists in Indiana an adequate remedy at law; that Davidson's judgment is satisfied by
the levy and sale ofthe tolls of the bridge, and Davidson having obtained a remedy byfi. fa., Shepherd may do the same.
To ascertain whether Davidson obtained satisfaction by the
marshal's sale, we must inquire what property was sold, and
what title to it acquired, that could be made available by possession and the receipts of tolls.
The Covington Drawbridge Company was duly incorporated to build a bridge across the Wabash river where it was
navigable for steamboats, and not subject to be bridged by an
individual assuming to exercise a mere private right. The
corporation had conferred on it a public right of partially obstructing the river, fhich is a common highway, and which
obstruction would have been a nuisance, if done without public authority This special privilege, conferred on the corporation by the sovereign power, of obstructing the navigation;
did not belong to the country generally by common right, and
is therefore a franchise, and, secondly, the authority of taking
tolls from those who crossed the river on the bridge was also
a franchise, and freedom to do that which could not be lawflully done by one without public authority; this franchise could
only be conferred by the Legiplature.directly, or indirectly

SUPREME COURT.
Comngton,Drawbridlge Company et al. v. Shepherd et al.

through public agents and tribunals, in pursuance of a statute.
The bridge is part of a road, and an easement, like the road,
and the privilege of making the bridge, and taking tolls for
the use of the same, is a franchise in which the public have an
interest, the corporation, as owner of the franchise, is liable
to answer in damages if it refuses to transport individuals on
being paid or tendered the usual fare, the law secured the
tolls as a recompense for the duty imposed to provide and
maintain facilities for accommodating the public. Whether
the timbers and materials of this bridge could be sold at auction by the marshal, by virtue of afenfacuas in his hands, as
was held could be done by the laws of NSorth Carolina in the
case of the State v. Rives, 5 iN. C. R., 297, we are not called
on to decide in this case, as here the annual tolls were sold,
and not the bridge itself.
By the laws of Indiana, lands and tenements cannot be sold
under execution, until the rents and profits thereof for a term
no* exceeding seven years shall have been first offered for sale
at Prublic auction, and if that term, or a less one, will not satisfy the execution, then the debtor's interest or estate in the
land may be sold, provided it brings two-thirds of its appraised
value. The tolls, under the idea that they were rents and
profits of the bridge, were sold for one year, according to the
forms of this law The tolls of the bridge being a franchise,
and sole right in the corporation, and the bridge a mere easement, the corporation not owning the fee in the land at either
bank of the river, or under the water, it is difficult to say how
an execution could attach to either the franchise or the structure of the bridge as real or personal property This is a
question that this court may well leave to the tribunals of
Indiana to decide on their own laws, should it become necessary One thing, however, is plainly manifest, that the remedy at law of these execution creditors is exceedingly embarrassed, and we do not see how they can obtain satisfaction of their judgments from this corporation, (owning no
corporate property but this bridge,) unless equity can afford
relief.
By the laws of Indiana, stocks in a corporation may be sold

DECEMBER TEIM, 1858.
Gomngton Drambridge Company et al. v. Shepherd et aZ.

by virtue of an execution against the owner of the stocks,
which the sheriff may transfer to the purchaser; but this law
does not help these complainants; they did not proceed against
the stocks, their judgment at law did not affect individual
property, but corporate property. The question whether a
railroad company's property, including the franchises, can be
subjected to the debts of the corporation by a decree in equity,
is treated very fully by Redfield on Railways, ch. 32, section
2, p. 571, there the substance of the decisions affecting the
doctrine is given in cases where there were liens by mortgage.
The subject was well examined by the Supreme Court of
Georgia in the case of the Macon.and Western Railroad Company v. Parker, 9 Geo. R., 378. The contest there involved
claims of creditors. When speaking of the necessity of equity
exercising jurisdiction, the court say "that the whole history
of equity jurisprudence does not present a case which made
the interposition of its powers not only highly expedient, but
so indispensably necessary in adjusting the rights of creditors
to an insolvent estate as this did." The road was sold according
to the, decree, but, to settle the difficulty as to the sale of a franchise without the consent of the power granting it, upon application, an act was passed by the Legislature, creating the
purchaser and his associates a body corporate, with the powers
and privileges of the old company In England, the practice
is, to order a receiver to be appointed to manage.the corporate
property, take the proceeds of the franchises, and apply them
to pay the creditors filing the bill.
Blanchard v Cawthorn, 4 Simons's R., 566.
Tripp v. The Chard Railway Company, 21 E. Law and E.
R., 53.
All that we are called on to decide in this case is, that the
court below had power to cause possession to be-taken of the
bridge, to appoint a receiver to collect tolls, and pay them
into court, to the end of discharging the judgments at law,
and our opinion is, that the power to do so e:ists, and that it
was properly exercised. It is therefore ordered that the decree below be affirmed, and the Circuit Court is directed to
proceed to execute its decree:

SUPREME COURT.
Livermore ei al. v. 7enckes et al.

Mr. Justice DANIEL dissented, for want of jurisdiction of
the courts of the United States over corporations.
Marshall v. Balt. and Ohio R. R. Co., 16 How Reports.

EDWARD M. LIVERMORE AND DAVID B. SEXTONI APPELLANTS, V.
THOMAS A. JENCKES, ALEXANDER FARNUM, AND STEPHEN WATERMAN.
The laws of Rhode Island allow an assignment to be made by a failing debtor,
for the benefit of certain preferred creditors, and for the excluson of those who
should refuse to execute releases from their respective claims.
The law of New York do not permit svich assignments.
Where an assignment with the above reservation was made in Rhode Island by a
person and to persons residing there, which conveyed to trustees certain property in Rhode Island, and also property in New York, it was proper for the
Circuit Court of New York to dismiss a bill filed by creditors residing there,
provided there was no fraud in fact in the assignment.
The complainants never acquired nor ever had any lien upon the property in
New York, so as to subject it legally or equitably to their demand against the
failing debtors, either before or after it was carried into judgment in the Supreme Court of New York.

THIS wa's an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the southern district of New York, sitting in equity
Livermore and Sexton, who filed the bill; were citizens of
New York, and Jenckes, P'arnum, and Waterman, citizens of
Rhode Island.
The complainants claimed to set aside an assignment made
on the 19th of April, 1854, by Waterman, to Jenckes & Farnum, upon the ground that the assignment was to enure to
such of Waterman's creditors who should sign a release. Tins
provision, it was admitted, was valid by the laws of Rhode
Island, where the assignment was executed, but invalid by the
laws of New York. where the property in question was situated. Livermore and Sexton had become judgment creditors
after the assignment was made, and if it could be set aside,
the property would be open to execution upon their judgments.

