DECEMBER TERM, 1858.
Pemberto v. Loc-et ed a7.

arose, as matter of law, upon the facts disclosed in the record, and it was the duty of the court to enforce it; and hence
the excess over this increased duty, arisitng under the 17th section, constituted the just amount which the plaintiffs were entitled to recover.
Judgment of the court below affirmedc.

JOHN PEMBERTO,

LIQUIDATOR O THE MERCHANTS' INSURANCE

CompxAy, APELLANT, V. EDWARD LOCKETT, JA- s
- RET, AND HENRY

G.

BER-

D. JOHNSON.

An agreement between a'claimant and certain persons in Washington, whereby
the claimant agreed to allow'th6se persons a proportion of what might be recovered, was terminated 'when the -United States and Great Britain made a
convention, providing for the appointment of a board of commissioners to
decide upon claims, in which the one in question was included.
The agreement looked only to the services in Washington of the persons employed;
and the facts.of the case'indicate that such was the intention of the parties.

Tnis was an: appeal from the Circuit Court of the 'United
States for the District of Columbia.
The facts 'are stated in the opinion of the court.
The Circuit Court decreed that $14,230, (being the one-half
of the sum of $28,460 iwarded,) less five per cent., together
with interest thereon from the 20th of June, 1855, and costs,
be paid by Pehibeiton to the complainants. From this decree,
Pemberton appealed to this court.
It was' argued by Mr. Brent and Mfr. Johnson, with whom
was Mr. May, for the appellant, and b' Mr. Bradley for the
appellees, on which side there was also a brief filed by Mr.
Bradey and Mr..Hayes.
There were many points raised by the counsel for the appellant; but as several of them were not touched upon in the
decision of the cort;it is proper t6mention only such as were.
The pAn.ipal points Nvhich were.included in the decision relatqd to the facts of the case, and, were as follows:
17
VOL. XXI

SUPREME COURT.
.Pembertonv. Lockett d al.

Pemberton resided in New Orleans; Berret, Johnson, and
Lockett, resided in Washington city; and the agreement was
made in New Orleans.
This Creole claim was presented to the Executive Government of the United States, and was considered by it, (See Opinion of Attorney General Legare of July 20, 1842, 4 vol., 98,)
was discussed in Congress, and became the subject' of negotiation between our Government and that of Great Britain.
At length a convention, on the 8th of February, 1853, was
made between these Governments, for the adjustment of all
claims of the cftizens of either Government against the other,
and commissioners were appointed for hearing and deciding
upon said claim.
10 Stat. at Large, 988.
These commissioners sat in London,. and a public officer,
called the law agent of the United States, was duly commissioned under the convention, to represent all claims of our
citizens before the board; and he was present in London, and
performed his duties, and was paid for them by the Government of the United States.
Neither of the defendants in error appeared before the board
or the umpire appointed under the convention.
Before that board the "Creole case" was presented, and "it
was considered and discussed as a single ease, and not in the
name of a particular claimant."
The questions of fact and law were common to all-who were
interested in this claim.
There was no other argument presented to the commission in
the "Creole case," except that which was made verbally by the
said law agent of the United States.
The papers in the claim were transmitted to London by the
State Department.
Triuder & Eyre, of London, solicitors,. were employed
by Pemberton, under the advice of Senator Benjamin, to
represent his claim before the board, so far as if was competent for private counsel to do so. And they presented to
the law agent of the United 8tates a memorial in his behalf,
and properly-authenticated evidence in support of the claim,

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

259

Pemberton v. Lockett d al.

and "which went before the commissioners when the papers
were placed in their hands."
Without authentic data to establish the loss of each claimant, no specific amounts could have been awarded.
That another memorial and proof to sustain it was forwarded by Johnson, one of the defendants in error, to the said
law agent at London, and was presented by him and used in
support of Pemberton's claim.
That said Johnson claimed to be counsel for others, and
among .them for said Lockett, one of the defendants in error,
before said board in the "Creole case," and forwarded a memorial in his case.
That by the 8d'article of said convention all claims were to
be presented within six months from the day of the first meeting of the board.
10 Stat. at L., p. 988, art. 1; 990, art. 3.
That said Johnson did not transmit the memorial prepared
by him for Pemberton's claim until after 29th of May, 1854,
and after the lapse of six m6nths from the opening of the board.
That so carelessly was the same prepared, that he did not
even correctly present the name of said Pemberton, nor did he
forward it for forty-two days after he swore to it, as shown by
his letter of the 29th day of May, enclosing it; and this,
though the memorial, as sworn to, shows on its face that it
was then out of season, and liable to be ruled out.
That neither the said Berret nor Lockett appear to have had
any agency or part whatever in representing or prosecuting
the said claim.
That besides the said memorial and papers transmitted by
said Johnson to said law agent, the only part he had or took
in representing the said claim of Pemberton was a mere reference to the same by a letter to the said board, stating that his
argument, presented in said Lockett's case, e'wa applicable
to the case of the Merchants' Insuranc9 Company."
That said Lockett's claim was a heavy, one, being for tho
value of seventy-five slaves, and it comprised all the labor and
service rendered by said Johnson in the "Creole case;" and
that the same was submitted on said Johnson's argument,

260

SUPREINE COURT.
Pemberton v. Lockett et al.

made in that behalf alone, so far as he was concerned, and without other act or thing done by him in behalf of Pemberton,
other than the reference aforesaid.
That the said Lockett, Berret, and Johnson, before the case
was argued in London, released and abandoned their said joint
contract for their services to said Pemberton; and the said
Johnson, who alone afterwards appeared or was known in the
case, was a mere volunteer, and offered to make a new contract for his services, to be rendered for one-half the amount
stipulated for in the said joint agreement.
That said Trinder &Eyre were present at the argument of the
claim, and aided the law agent of the United States in the case,
and their correspondence will show an actual and faithful performance of duty. And they were compensated by Pemberton.
That the award in the "Creole case" was made on the 9th
of January, 1855, by the umpire, Mr. Bates; and two several
items of claim were allowed said Pemberton, amounting to
$28,460, on the 15th of January, 1855.
And this sum was transmitted to the Department of State
at Washington, and .-eceived by the Secretary of said Department, as the money of the said -Pemberton, as liquidator, and
to be paid to him as such, subject to a deduction of five per
cent. for the 3xpenses of the commission.
That the full amount due and payable to said Pemberton
was by him claimed at the State Department, from the then
Secretary thereof; the Hon. William L. Marcy, and the payment of one-half thereof was refused and restrained by injunction issued from said Circuit Court on the 20th of June, 1855,
"commanding said Pemberton, his attorneys, agents, &c., not
to demand or receive the remaining half of said award to him
as liquidator, to wit: the sum of $14,230, subject to said deduction of five per cent." And the said sum of money has
remained and now is in the said Department of State, under
the said injunction, which has never.been dissolved.
The counsel for. the appellees contended, amongst other
points, that the contract had neither been rescinded by the
acts of the parties nor the change of circumstances.

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

261

Pemberton v<LockeaWet a7.

Upon the latter proposition, their argument was as follows:
2. The contract was not rescinded or annulled by Any change
of circumstances .rendering it impossible to be carried Into
effect..
The appellees deny the allegation in the aiswer, that compensation was agreed upon in the event of a recovery of the
claim against the United States. No such condition is expressed or implied in the contract, The appellees also deny
the allegations in the answer, that the contract was entered
into for services to be performed in Washington city, and that
-fte provision in the convention, "that it shall be competent
-for each Government to name 6ne person to attend the commissioners, as agent on its behalf, and to answer claims made
upon i4 and to repreient it generally in all matters connected
*ith the investigation and decision thereof, were circumstances
of themselves which put an end to the contract, so that complainants had no longer any right to recover thereon." No
such conditions are found in the agreement.
The most important work in the prosecution of the case
(viz: the preparation of evidence) could only be done in the
United States, and particularly in the city of Washington.'
The evidence shows that the appellees were employed several
weeks in obtaining testimony from the Departihents in
Washington. The -convention provided' that the claims
should be heard upon such evidence or information as shall be
furnished by or on behalf of. their respective Governments.
(Report of Decisions of the Commission of Claims, p. 9.) Thus,
all the memorials and proofs were required -to be presented
through -the Department of State at Washington.
The appointment of an agent in behalf of the United States
did not dispense with the necessity for employing associate
codneel. Such counsel were frequently associated with the
agent of the United States. (Report of Decisions of the
Commission, pp.-16, 18, 29, 41, &c.)
There'was no necessity for employing English counsel, as is
alleged, as the case was not before an English court but a
joint commission; and, from the peculiarity of the case, English counsel were totally unfitted to manage it.."

SUPREME COURT.
Pemberton v. Lockett e al.

Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Columbia.
The bill was filed in the court below, by the respondents,
against the appellant, Pemberton, liquidator of the Merchants'
Insurance Company, in the city of New Orleans, representing
the interest of that, company, which was insolvent, for the purpose of establishing a title to certain moneys in the possession
of the Government, which had been received under the convention between the United States and Great Britain, of the
8th of February, 1853. The money had been awarded by the
umpire, under that convention, to the company, which had
been subrogated to the rights of one of the claimants for compensation against Great Britain, in the case of the brig Creole.
The umpire allowed to the company $28,460. The complainants below set up, in their bill, a title to one-half of this fund,
as the agents and attorneys of Pemberton in the prosecution
of the claim.
The right rests upon the following agreement, entered ifnto
between them and the defendant (Pemberton) at New Orleans,
dated the 23d of December, 1851:
"For and in consideration of services rendered, and to be
rendered, by James G. Berret, Henry D. Johnson, and E.
Lockett, of Washington city, D. C., in the prosecution of our
claims for the value of slaves freed at Nassau, N. P., which we
had to pay for, we do hereby agree to allow to said Berret,
Johnson, and Lockett, their heirs or assigns, one-half of any
or all such sums of money, principal and interest, as miay be
recovered on account of our said losses, it being understood
that the said Berret, Johnson, and Locket, are to use their
best exertions in the prosecutibn of said claim, and that no
allowance whatever, as expenses or compensation for their
services, is to be made by us to the said Berret, Johnson, and
-Lockett, unless our said claim shall-be allowed, in whole or in
part. Witness our hand and seal, at New Orleans, this 28d
day of December, in the year of our Lord 1851."
The claims ref6ired to in this agreement originated as far
back as the year. 1841, in consequence of the unwarrantable

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

263

emlberon v. Lockelt et A.

interference of the public authorities at Nassau, in the island
of New Providence, one of the Bahama Islands, belonging to
Great Britain, and liberating a cargo of slaves, who were
on a voyage from Virginia to New Orleans, and who had mutinied, overcome the officers, and carried the vessel into that
port.
The persons interestea in the slaves, of which they were de;
prived by this interference, immediately appealed to their own
Government for redress. A. correspondence was opened between this Government and Great Britain on the subject,
which continued down tothe time of the convention already
mentioned, of the 8th of February, 1853.
This convention provided for the appointment of a board of
commissioners, one to be named by each Government, and the
two to appoint au Umpire, to decide upon all claims in which
a difference of opinion should oqeur.
The board sat in the city of London, and were bound, according to the terms of the convention, to receive and peruse
all written documents or statements which might be presented
to them, by or on behalf of taeir respective Governments, in
support of or in answer to any claim; and to hear, if required, one person on each side, in behalf of each Government,
as counsel or'agent for such Government, on each separate
claim. Each Government appointed an agent to represent it
before the.board; and, as we have said, the umpire allowed to.
the insurance company $28,460.
It is insisted, on behalf of the defendant, (Pemberton,) that
this contract, entered into with complainants in 1851, had
riference to' the solicitation of claims before, and allowance by, thei Government, at the bity of Washingt6n; that
they were employed as gentlemen residing at that place, engaged in business of this character; aud that the, convention
between the two Governments, the appointment of a board of
commissionerA, and prosecution of the claims against Great
Britain before it, under the"authority of the United States, put
an end to the contract. Although its terms are general, and
open -to some difficulty as to the real meaning and intent of:
the parties,'we are inclined to concur in this view of it. We

SUPEME COURT.
Pemberton v. Lockett et aZ.

think it could hardly have been within the contemplation of
either of the parties, that the prosecution spoken of in the argument was a prosecution or solicitation of claims against the
foreign Government, or in a tribunal sitting there, and before
which this Government had taken upon itself the duty of the
prosecution. We are satisfied -thes- agents were under no
obligation, according to the true intent of the agreement, to
follow these claims to London, and prosecute them there; and
if not, it is quite clear the transfer of them to the commission
there put an end to the agreement. And this seems to have
been the view taken of it by the parties themselves, as manifested by their conduct after the appointment of the commission.
By the third article of the convention, the claims were to be
presented before the board within six months from the day of
its first sitting, unless a good reason could -be given for the
delay. The board first met in London on the 15th of September, 1853; and on the -15th of October it adopted rules and
regulations in respect to the proceedings before it, and, among
others, required all claims to be presented within six months
from the -15th of September, the day of its first sitting.
Now, the first step taken by these complainants in behalf of
the claims of Pemberton, under the convention, was a letter
written to him by Lockett, dated December 15, requesting that
a power of attorney should be given to Johnson, to act for him
before the commission. This was three months after the comniencement of its sittings, and after half the period had expired within which the claims were required to be presented.
It does *notappear that this letter was answered by Pemberton.
The next step taken was a letter from Johnson himself,
dated at Washington, 22d of March, 1854, in which he an.nounces that he -had prepared a memorial on behalf of the
claims of-the insurance company, and was ready to forward it
to the commissioners, in London: This was seven days after
the expiration of the six months.
In'-he mean time, Pemberton had employed agents residing
in London to atteiid to his claims, and who, it appears, had
the charge and management of the business until the close of
the commission.

DEMOBER TERM, 1858.

265

Pemrto v. Lockett et aZ.

*Whatis very material, also, in this letter of Johnson of the
22d of March, he there states, in respect to the situation of his
two associates, as an induc.emen't to Pemberton to give him,
individually, the power of attorney-that Lockett is absent,
and that Berret was unable to attend to the business, having
been appointed postmaster of the city; and then proposes to
conduct the business himself alone, for the compensation of
twenty-five per centum of the money recovered, the half only
of what is now claimed under the agreement of 1851. -Itdoes
not appear that any answer was returned to this letter, doubtless for the reason that .other agents had already been employed.
It is true,. that Johnson drew up the memorial to the com-

missioners, on behalf of Pemberton, as above mentioned, but
without any authority from himi and swore to it, at Washington, on the 17th of April, 1854, in which he endeavored to explain the delay in presenting the claim; and forwarded the
same from this country on the 29th of May following. But
the subject had already been brought to the notice of-the Government agent, and before the board of commissioners, as early
as the 23d of that month, by the agents of Pemberton in London. This memorial, therefore, was of no particular importance.
It appears from the report of the proceedings under the commission, and of its decisions, communicated to Congress by
the President, 11th of August, 1856, (Senate Does., vol. 15,
1855-'6,) that there were six'separate claimants, besides Pemberton, for compensation arising out of the case of the Creole,
and all depending, substantially, upon the same facts.. And
there were, also, the cases of the brig Enterprie and schooner
Hermosa, involving principles similar to those upon which the
reclamation depended in the case of the Creole. All the parties whose claims arise 'out of the case of the Creole were
equally interested in furnishing the proofs upon which the generml claim against the British Government rested; and the
thred vessels were interested in conimon, as to the principles
of international law-that.sli6uld goveri the decision of the
board of commis~ioners.

SUPREME COURT.
Poorman et at. v. Woodward et aZ.

The Government agent and commissioners took this view of
,these several claims, and but one argument was made in all of
them, and that in the case of the brig Enterprise, and but one
opinion delivered by the commissioners. As they disagreed,
a second argument was made before the umpire.
The preparation of the claim of Pemberton, beyond the
proofs of the interest of his company in the case of the Creole,
was a very- trifling matter; and even these proofs had been
already furnished to this Government, at the time the appeal
was made there for redress. And as it respects the questions
of international law involved in these cases, they had been the
subject of repeated discussion between this Government and
Great Britain, and also in Congress, by some of the most distinguished statesmen and jurists of the country; and thepreparationfor the argument of the claim before the board of commissioners required little else than the labor of digesting and
reproducing the principles and reasoning to be found in these
discussions.
For the reasons above given, we are satisfied the agreement
and proofs in the case furnish no legal or just ground for a
claim to the sum of money awarded by the court below, and
that the decree should be reversed, and the proceedings remit
ted, with directions to enter a decree dismissing the bill.

DANIEL POQRMAN AND OTHERS V. WILLIAM

C. DUSENBERRY, LATE
OF WOODWARD & DUSENBERRY.
WILLIAM

A.

WOODWARD AND

PARTNERS UNDER THE FIRM

Where certain persons gave a joint aud several note for the purpose of raising
money, and their agent received a certificate of deposit which certificate was
afterwards duly paid upon presentation, the signers of the note cannot escape
from their responsibility upon the plea that a certificate of deposit was not
money.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the southern district ot Ohio.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

