DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

85-

Kdsey d al. v. Forayt,.

the case again before this court it must be done by another
writ of error. The former wilt is not returnable to the.present
terX, and.cannot therefore, according to the principles whichgovern this common-law writ, brng the record before us.
The case of the Palmyra (12 Wheat., I) has been referred
to, where a motion similar to the present was granted*by the
court. And if that had been a case -at common law, we might
have felt ourselves bound to follow it, as establishing the law..
of tbas court. But it was a case in admiralty, where the power
and jurisdiction of an appellate court is much wider upon appeal, than: in a case at common law. For, in #n admiralty
case, you may in this court amend the pleadings, and take new.
evidence, so as -ineffect to make it a different case from that
'decided by the court below And the court might well, therefore, deal with the judgment and appeal of the inferior tribunal in, the same spirit. But the powers which an appellate
court may lawfully.exercise in -an admiralty -proceeding, are
altogether inadmissible in a common-law suit.
.The case in 3 Pet., 431, relates to cases and questions ofsa
ilifferent character from the one before us. In that case the
judgment of the court at the preceding term was amended.
'But the amendment was made to correct a clerical'error- in
this court and make the judgment conform tothat which the
court intended to pronounce. But -this is not a motion to
amend, but to reverse and annul the-judgment of the last term,
which was passed upon full consideration, with the case regularly and legally before us, as brought up by the writ of error.
-Werefer to these two cases because they have been relied
on in support of the motion. But, in the judgment of "the
court, they stand on very different principles; and the motion,
for the reasons- above stated, must be overruled.

JAMES .X]KELSEY- .ANDTHOIMAS

P HOTOHKISS, PLIINTMrS iNER-

ROR, v. ROBERT FORSYTH.

The agreement of parties cainnot authorme this court to revise a judgnent of an
inferior court in any other mode of proceeding than that winch the law pre.

scribeg, nor can 4he laws of a State, regulating the proceedings of its own

SUPREME COURT.
XdKese et al. v. Forsyth.
courts, authorize a District or Circuit Court sitting in the State to depart fout
the modes of proceeding and rules prescribed by the acts of Congress.
Therefore, where the parties to an ejectment suit agreed to waive a trial by jury,
and that both matters of law and of fact should be submitted to the decision of
the court, and then a bill of exceptions was brought up to this court to all the
-rulings and decisions of the court'below, this court cannot look into errors of
fact or errors of law alleged to have been committed m such an irregular proceeding, and the judgment of the court below will be affirmed.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit Court of the United States for the northern district of
Illinois.
It was an action of ejectment brought by Robert Forsyth, a
citizen of Missouri, against KIelsey and Hotchkiss, to recover
certain lots in the county of Peoria.
After some proceedings which it is not necessary to mention in this report, the cause came on for trial at December
term, 1854, of the Circuit Court, when the parties filed the
following agreement:
"And be it further remembered, that afterwards, to wit,
upon the calling of this cause for trial, by the mutual agreement of the parties; and ii accordance with the laws and practice of this State, a jury was waived, and both matters of law
and fact were submitted to the court, upon the distinct understan4ing that the right of either party should be full and perfect to object to the admission of incompetent evidence, and
the refusal to admit that which was competent; and with the
same privilege of excepting to the rulings of the court in either
case, as though the cause were tried by a jury, and with the
right to either party to avail himself, in the Supreme Court,
of any erroneous ruling in this court, precisely as though the
cause had been submitted to a jury, and with liberty to either
party, if it should be necessary to the hearing of this cause in
the Supreme Court, to treat the evidence introduced in this
cause in the nature of a special verdict."
The parties then proceeded to offer their evidence, consisting
of deeds, records, &c., when the court found the issue in favor
of the plaintiff, and gave judgment accordingly
The bill of exceptions taken by the defendants recited all
the evidence, and concluded thus

.DECEMBER TERM, 1858.
Kds

et al. v. Forsyth.

"And thereupon defendants move the court to set aside said
judgment, and grant them a new trial, for the reason that said
decision was against the evidence in the case, which motion
the court overruled. To all of which findings, rulings, decisions, and opinions, defendants then and there excepted, and
prayed that this their bill of exceptions might be sealed, signed,
and made of record, which is done, &c.
"Exceptions allowed, January 24, 1855.
"THOMAS DRUMMOND. [s:AL.]"
The cause was argued in this court by Mtr Ballance,-who
assigned various errors, in the judgmeut of the court below,
relative to the merits of the case, and others in the form of
proceeding. Amongst the latter, it was alleged that it was
error to try the cause without a jury; and, upon the authority
of Graham v. Bayne, 18 Howard, 60, he contended that the
cause must be remanded for a vernre de novo.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the northern district of fllinois.
An action of ejectment was brought by the defendants in
error against the plaintiff, for a certain parcel of land described
in the declaration, and upon the trial the verdict andjudgment
were for the plaintiff; a motion was afterwards made to set,
aside the judgment and for a new trial, and: the judgment was
accordingly set aside, and a new trial granted upon the terms
mentioned in the transcript. In the proceedings upon this
new trial, the parties agreed to waive a trial by jury, and that
both matters of law and of fact should be submitted to the decision of the court. The case was proceeded in according to
this agreement, and the court, as the record states, found the
issue in favor of the plaintiff, (Forsyth,) and entered judgment
accordingly, and to this decision, and to all the rulings and
decisions of the court'in the-previous stages of the cause, the
defendants (Kelsey and Hotchkiss) excepted, and :sued out a
writ of error to bring the case before this court.
It will be seen from'this statement that in a common.law

SUPREME COURT
WiFszi v..Lew

ork and Eri Rail)-oad Companj.

action of ejectment the case was submitted to the court upon
the evidence, without the intervention of a jury, leaving it to
thd court to decide the fact, as well as the law, upon the evidence and admissions before it. The case, therefore, is the
same in principle with that of Guild and others v. Frontin, 18
How., 185. And the doctrine in that case was reaffirmed in
Suydam v. Williamson, 20 How., 428, and the grounds upon
which it rests fully set forth. It is unnecessary to repeat here
what was stated in these two decisions. It is sufficient to say
that the agreement of parties cannot authorize this court to revise a judgment of an inferior court in any other mode of proceeding than that which the law prescribes, nor can the laws of
a State, regulating the proceedings of its own courts, authoize
a district or Circuit Court sitting in. the State to depart from
the modes of proceeding and rules prescribed by the acts of
Congress.
The judgment of the Circuit Court must therefore be af.
firmed.
ROSS WINANS, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. THE TEW YORK AND
ERIE RAILROAD COMPANY.
Where objection was made, during the trial of a cause, to the reception of the deposition of a witness, which had been taken under a commission, it was properly
overruled, because the rules of practice in the Circuit Court of New York give
time and opportunity to move for a suppression of'the deposition or a re-examination of the witness.
The paper which the witness referredto, but did not annex to his deposition, was
not in his power.
In the trial of a suit for the violation of a patent right, the court cannot be compelled to receive the evidence of experts as to how a patent ought to be construed. The judge may obtain information from them, if he desire it.
Winans's patent for "a new and useful improvement in the construction of cars or
carriages intended to travel upon railroads," was for the manner of arranging
and connecting the eight wheels of a railroad carriage for the purpose of enabling burden and passenger cars to pursue a more smooth, even, and safe
course over the curves and irregularities of a railroad. And it was proper to
instruct the jury, thatif they found, from the evidence, that before the time when
Winans claimed to have made the discovery, carriages with eight wheels, arranged and connected substantially in 'the same manner and upon the same
mechanical principles with those described in the patent, were known, and
publicly used, Winans was not entitled to recover.

