SUPREME COURT.
Dickins's Losee v. Hahana.

JoN DOE, EX DEm. FRANCIS A. DICKINS, PLAINTIFF iN ERROR,

v.

ALONZO MAXANA.

'In 1792, Congress granted .to certain, persons a tract of land in Ohio, upon the
condition that they would lay off lots of an hundred acres each to actual settlers, and upon the further condition that the lands which were undisposed of
at the end of five years should revert to the United States.
In 1818, Congress directed these reverted lands to be laid off into townships and
sections, or into one-hundred-acre lots, and to be sold, with the exception of
the usual proportion for the support of schools.
The Secretary of the Treasury had the power to reserve school lots, but the regis.
ter of the land office had not.
Whether or not the presumption was that the Secretary had exercised this power,
was a question to be decided by the jury upon the evidence; and in deciding
that it was a legal presumption the court erred.

THIS case was brought up by writ 6f error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the southern district of Ohio.
It was an ejectment brought by Dickins's lessee to recover a
lot of one hundred acres, being number eight in the donation
tract, Marietta district, Ohio, in township nine, range eleven,
in the district of lands subject to sale at Chillicothe, formerly
in the Marietta district.
In 1849, the office was removed from Marietta to Chillicothe; and in transcribing the book, the words "school land,"
which were written in the Marietta book upon the plat of the
land in question, were oriiitted in the Chillicothe book. Perhaps this was the origin of the controversy.
Upon the trial in the court below, Dickins's lessee made out
his title as follows, viz:
1. A patent issued to Samuel A. H. Marks, on July 1, 1851,
which included the lot in question.
2. Conveyances from Marks to the plaintiff.
The defendant claimed under a lease from the trustees of
Windsor township, Morgan county, which is composed in part
of fractional township nine, range eleven, in the district of
lands now subject to sale at Chillicothe, being formerly in the
Marietta land district. It was admitted that he had been in

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.
Dickin's

Lese v.

277

laiha.

possession from the year 1834, claiming to hold the same as
school lands belonging to said township nine, range eleven.
The whole .question, then, depended upon the inquiry
whether this lot had been set apart as "school land," according to law.
The difficulty arose from the circumstance that this part ofthe country was not included in the general land system, under
which the land reserved for schools is at once ascertained, with-.
out the possibility of mistake. But, in 179, the grant to Putnam and others required that they should lay out the land in
lots of' one hundred acres each; and as part of it had been settled in that way, it became necessary to lay out the. unsettled
residue, which reverted to the United States, in lots also of one
hundred acres, in order to conform to existiLg settlements.
In 1818, these reverted lots were ordered to be sold, with
the exception of the usual proportion for the Support of schools,
which the Secretary of'the Treasury-had • the power to select
In order to make out his title, and show that his lot was
amongst those thus selected and reserved from sale, the defendant introduced a great deal of record evidence, which it is
not necessary to insert in this report, because the decision of
this court was, that all that matter should have been left to the
jury. They were the proper tribunal to decide whether or not
the facts in evidence justified the presumption that the Secretary had selected this lot as "school land." The court decided
that this was a legal presumption, and, upon this point, the
judgment was erroneous.
The court also erred in. deciding that, under the act of 1818,
the register had power t6 select the "school lands."
Under the instructions of the court, the jiry found the defendant not guilty, and judgment was entered for him.
The plaintiff sued-out a writ of error, and brought the case
up to this court.
It was argued by MAr. (bombs and HAr. Vinton for the plaintiff in error, and by Hr. ifannia for the defendants.,'
The precise question decided by this court-that is, that the

SUPREME COURT.
Dickinds Lasee v. Hahana.

jury were to decide upon the presumption of the land being
selected as school land according to law, and that it was not a
question for the court-was not argued by the counsel; and it
is not thought necessary to report their arguments, either for
or against the presumption.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
By the act of 21st of April, 1792 there was granted to Rufus
Putnam and others, known as the Ohio Company, one hundred
thousand acres of land in the Marietta district, in the territory
northwest of the Ohio river. The object of Congress and the
grantees seems to have been to cause the country to be inhabited by making donations, through the company, to actual male
settlers, of one hundred acres each ;. and all of the tract not
thus disposed of within five years from the date of the grant,
reverted, by its terms, to the United States, as public lands.
The ordinary laws for surveying by ranges, townships, and
sections, did not apply to this tract, nor to the surplus that
might revert, as ordinary surveys would have thrown the townships and sections into fractions, by the hundred-acre lots previously disposed of by the company.
By compact, the United States stipulated to give to the State
of Ohio one thirty-sixth part of the public lands in that State,
for the use of schools; and the 16th section of each township
was the land thus contracted to be given, in cases where there
were regular surveys in townships of six miles square; and,
by the acts of April 30, 1802, and March 3, 1803, (sec. 3,) Congress further stipulates that the lands previously promised "for
the use of schools, in lieu of such of the sections number sixteen as have been otherwise disposed of, shall be selected by
the Secretary of the Treasury, out of the unappropriated reserved sections in the most contiguous townships."
By the act of March 18, 1818, Congress directed the lands
-in the Ohio Company's donation tract to be -surveyed by the
surveyor general, separating that conveyed to settlers from
that not conveyed, and belonging to the United States by reversion. This latter land he was to lay off into townships and
sections, or into oie-hundred-acre lots, -conforming them to the

DEOEMBER TERI,

1858.

279

Dickhns's Lessee v. .Mahana.

plan observed by the company, when providing for actual settlers. And he was ordered to make returns of thesurveys to
the General Land Office, and to the register of the land office
at Marietta. The lands Were laid off into one-hundred-acre
tracts, and these tracts the act orders to be sold, "with the ex-ception *ofthe usualproportionfor the support of schools." By the
President's proclamation, they were offered for sale on the first
Monday in June, 1819. There was no reservation to the general order of sale, except of such lands as the Secretary should
select, according to the power vested in him by the act of 1808,
for the use of schools; and it is a fair presumption, that the
register offered all the lands for sale that were not reserved.
But the difficulty is; that for the lands in dispute theke might
have been no bidder when they were offered. That the Secretary had the power to reserve school lots, and to bind the
'United States and the townships to his selection, is very clear;
and we think it is equally clear that the regster of the Marietta district had no power to designate these school lots. As
a subordinate, he could lawfully record the orders of the Secretary in this respect, but could do no binding act himself.
Six of the lots of one hundred acres each, lying in a body,
and square form, together with lot No. 84, adjoining on the
east, were not sold, (including No. 8, the lot in dispute.)
On the tract book found in the office of the register at Marietta, and by which the sales of 1819 were governed, the word
"school" was written on the plot of each of the seven lots;
but whether made as early as 1819, or afterwards, does not
appear; nor, whether the then register (Wood) put the designation there by order of the Secretary.
It is.admitted that the school commissioners took possession
of the land sued for in 1834, and have held it ever since by
their lessee; and it is also admitted that township nine,, range
eleven, which claims the lots marked "school," is without
school lands, unless the lots thus designated belong to it as
such.
Onthe returnmade of the surveys to the GeneralLand Office
in. 1818, there is no indication that a reservation of any land
w4s-made for township nine; range eleven.-

SUPREME .COURT.
Dickins8 Lessee v. Hahana.

The manner in which the Secretary should authenticate his
selections was not prescribed by Congress, and depends in this
case on evidence not found of record. It must be proved by
circumstances, and cannot be proved in any other way.
Another consideration is pressed on the court, on the part of
the plaintiff, to overcome the fact that this designation is of no
value, to wit: that the Secretary of the Treasury, by his letter
of July 18, 1805, directed land equal to one section'on the
southern part of the donation tract to be laid off as compensationifor section sixteen, in township five, range ten, the school
tract in township five having been otherwise appropriated;
and hence it happened, as is alleged, that the register marked
the lots in controversy "school."
In 1805, the lots thus
marked had not been surveyed, and each one-hundred-acre lot
is marked on the tract book of surveys returned in 1818; and
as the trustees took the school land for township five, range
ten, elsewhere, the argument has not much force.
It is also insisted that, in point of fact, the entire section No.
16, in township nine, range eleven, remained undisposed of by
the Ohio Company, and was subject to be appropriated by the
commissioners of the township for school purposes; and, therefore, no claim could be set up by them to lands elsewhere. The
act of April 30th, 1802, section 7, provides that the 16th section of every township shall be granted to the inhabitants of
the same for the use of schools. But, then, the 16th section is
a designated portion of land that may iesult from an execution
of the public surveys made ,bythe United States, according to
the rules and regulations Congress had made or might make.
Until ranges were established, and the lands surveyed into
townships and sections, no title to any definite land vested
in the township. It had no authority to survey and ascertain the 16th section. This authority was reserved exclusively to the United .States, and to be exercised as part of
the political power. Now, as the 16th section of township
nine, range eleven, never was legally ascertained, and as
no other evidence could be heard to fix its identity than a
survey approved by the department, established for the distribution and sale of the public lands, the assumption that the

DECEMBER TERM,.-1858..
.Dickin's Laesee v. .lahana.

land was unappropriated where the 16th section would have
fallen, had a survey in fact been made of the township, amounts
to nothing. Cases affecting school lands, in Ohio and elsewhere, come under the rule laid down in the noted case of
General Green's grant of twenty-five thousand acres, in the
military district of North Carolina, (2 Wheat., 19.) The Legislature of that State made the grant by an act of Assembly;
having made it, it reserved the power to locate the land by
survey -through its officers. The land being surveyed, and
'the survey returned and recorded in the proper land office,
it wa. held by this court'that the title attached to the land
designated, on the obvious legal ground that the State of lorth
Carolina was estopped to disavow its own act in defining .by
survey the precise land granted; and so, also, General Green
and his heirs were estopped to call in question the validity of
the definite location, the authority to locate by survey having
been reserved by the granting power. So, here the. granting
power reserved the right to ascertain and identify the land
granted to the schools. Until this was done, no title could 1e
taken of any particular tract; and when the location was made
by authority of the United Stites, each party was estopped to
deny its binding force. It was, in fact, a title by mutual estoppel.
We now come to the precise case presented on the trial be
low. The jury were instructed:
1. "That the proofs and legal presumptions sustaining *the
title of the defendant must have reference solely to, and be
based upon, the act of Congress, approved March 18, 1818,
entitled 'An act providing for the sale of certain lands in the
.district of Marietta,' &c., in connection with the act of the
21st of April, 1792, granting t T..ufus Putnam and others, as
agents and trustees, one hundred thousand acres, called the
donation tract; and that, in the absence of any express authority to any other officer to make the selection of school lands
in said donation tract, by a fair construction of said act of
1818, the register of the land office at Marietta rightfully exercised such authority."
2. "That all the evidence and admissions of factsin the

SUPREME COURT.
.Dickins'8 Lasee v.

ahana.

case raised a legal presumption that the said register of the
land office at Marietta had exercised the authority so vested in
him by said act of March 18, 1818, prior to the entry and
patent under which the plaintiff claims title, by legally selecting the lands in controversy in this suit (with other lands) for
the support of schools in said township pine, in range eleven,
and it was therefore their duty to return a verdict for the defendant."
The first instruction assumes that the act of 1818 authorized
the register to select the school lots in the donation tract;
whereas the third section of the act of March 3, 1803, conferred the exclusive power on the Secretary of the Treasury,
and therefore the instruction is erroneous.
The second instruction declares that the evidence and ad:.
missions of facts in the case raised a legal presumption "that
said register had exercised the authority vested in him by the
act of 1818, prior to the entry and patent under which the
plaintiff claims title," &c.
As the register had no power to select, it could not be held
that he had legally selected; nor did he make the entry on the
tract book in due form, had he been instructed by the Secretary to record his selection.
The word " school," appearing on the tract book, has much
significance; but, standing alone, it did not authorize the Circuit Court to presume, as matter of law, that the lands had
been selected by order of the Secretary. If his letter to the
register, directing him to make the selection; had been produced, and taken in connection with the designation, then we
think the court would have been warranted in making the legal
presumption.
The narrow point in this cause is, Did the Secretaty select
the land in controversy (with other lots) for the use of schools?
If he did, then the title of the United States was divested
thereby, and the lands withdrawn from sale. There are numerous facts tending to prove that they were selected. 1st.
They were not sold, nor is it at all probable that they were
offered for sale, in 1819. If they are of good quality, and
favorably situated, a jury may be satisfied that, had they been

DECEMIBER TERM, 1858.

283

Hiwlv. 96it d al.

offered to bidders at the public sale, they would have beer.
purchased.- 2a. They were claimed as school lands, selected
for township nine, range eleven. 3d. The trustees for the
township took possession of them, and leased them out as"
early as 1834; and their tenant is yet-in possession, and here
sued. 4th. The endorsement, on the plat of the lots, of -the
word "school," indicates, to some extent, that they had been
selected by the proper authority. What weight this may have,
it will be proper to leave to the jury. 5th. That this township
had no school lands assigned to it, unless the lots referred to
were assigned.
These facts, with-others, were proper to be submitted to the
jury, from which they might have presumed that the lots had
been duly selected.
In the language of the Supreme Court of Ohio, in the case
of Coombs and Ewing v. Lane-"Facts presumed are as effectually established as facts proved, where no presumption is allowed." That was a suit for the possession of this same land,
and involved the same evidence*this case does, and presented
the same questions of law. But there, the cause was submitted
to the Circuit Court on the law and the facts, without the intervention of a jury; and the Supreme Court was appealed to in
order to reverse the opinion of the lower court, on a motion
for a new trial. The State courts dealt with both facts and
law; whereas, here, the jury must deal with the facts and presumptions, under the instructions of the court, as respects the
law.
We order the judgment of the Circuit Court to be reversed,
and remand the cause for another trial.

HENRY HILL, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. CALEB B. Smri

AND

OTHERS.
Where it appeared from the record that a party sold land to a'railroad company,
the price of which was paid in the stock of the company, guarantied by certain
persons to be at par after a named time, and suit was brought upon this written contract, the case does not appear to be open to a demurrer by the defend.
ants, and the judgment of the court below sustaining such a demurrer must be

