DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

195

Innurance Co. of th Tralley of Virginia v. Mordecai.

divided between the James Gray and the General Clinch,
according to the rule laid down by this court in the case of the
Schooner Catharine et al. v. Dickinson et al., (17 How., 170.)
The decree of the Circuit Court is therefore reversed; and
the case remanded, with directions to adjust the loss upon the
principles stated in this opinion.We do not assent to so much of this opinion as makes the
"James Gray" liable for negligence, merely for want of exact
conformity to port regulations.
S. NELSONV.
R. C. GRIER.
NATHAN CLIFFORD.

THE INsurAIWEn CoMPANY oF THE VALLEY Or VIRGInIA, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR; V. MOSES C. MORDECAI.
A writ of error must be made returnable to the first day of the term, which is now
the first Monday in December. If made returnable to any subsequent day, it
is erroneous, and will be dismissed on motion. It cannot be amended.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit Court of the United States for the western district of Virginia.
It was an action of debt, brought by Mordecai, (a citizen of
South Carolina,) upon a judgment which he had obtained
against the insurance company, in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the district of South Carolina. 'A judgment. was given also for Mordecai in the Circuit Court- of Virginia,
from which the insurance company sued out a writ of error in
October, 1858, which was made returnable to this court on the
"second Monday in January next," (being the second Minday
in January, 1859.)
Mr. Phllipsmoved to dismiss the writ of error, on the ground
that the writ was not made returnable according to law, and
in support of the motion gave the following reasons:

•196

SUPREME COURT.
Iaurance Co. *ofthe Valley of ir.qiniav. A1ordecai.

The English rules with regard to the return day of a writ
of error are-In the King's Bench-it is returnable ubicumque, &c., on the
first or last general return of the term.
in the Exchequer Chamber it is returnable before the justices of the Common Bench, &c., on a particularreturn day.
In the House of Lords, when the Parliament is sitting, the
writ is made returnable before the King in his present Parlia
ment, inmediate. After a prorogation, the writ is returnable
at the next session; or after a dissolution, at the next Parliament, specifying the day when it is to be holden.
By the act of 24th September, 1789, the court was directed
to hold two sessions, the one commencing the first Monday in
February, and the other, first Monday in August. The sessions of the court were subsequently changed by statute to be
the second Monday in January, and then to the second Mon
day in December.
While the statute gives the commencement of a term, it does
not regulate its duration. The court may sit 8everal months
or one month. If, thereforej a writ of error is not made returnableto the first day of the session, it may so happen that the record would be sent up on a day when the court is not in
session.

It is true that the acts of Congress do not determine the day
of return; this was left to be determined by the court, under
the power given to regulate its process.
Under the act of the 3d May, 1792, it was made the duty of
the clerk of this court, with the approval of two of the judges,
to prepare the form of a writ of error. This was done, and the
writ then'made out undoubtedly made it returnable to the first
Monday of the court, The clerk informs me that at each succeeding change of the terms, new blanks have been prepared,
in which the return day was stated to be the -first of the term.
Not only is the act silent as to the day of the return,, but it is
equally so as to the term. Yet this court has in two cases dismissed a writ of error when a term had'intervened. (Hamilton v. Moore, 3 Dal., 371 Blair v. Miller, 4 Dal., 21.)
While no rule of the court specifically declares thatthawrit

DECEMBER TERM, 1$58.

.197

Insu=rance Co. of the Valley of Vi~tinia v. Mordecai.

shall be made returnable to the first day 6f the term, the 43d
rule, adopted in 1835, declares that, when the judgment or
decree is rendered thirty days before the term, the cause shall
be docketed and the record filed within the. first six days of
the term. This is wholly inconsistent with the idea that a
writ of error on such a judgment could be made returnableat'
a subsequent period.
AmENDMENT.-At common law, writs of error were not amendable. (1 Arch.. Drac., 214.) This was afterwards regulated
by stat. of 1 Geo. I.
The 32d section of the judiciary act, though writs of error are
not named, may be understood to confgr a similar. authority.
It may be, therefore, that leave 'to amend will be granted
wheft there is anything to amend by. This was the case in 4
Dal., 12.
In this case there is nothing to amend by.
The motion was opposed by .Mr.Robinson, upon the following.
grounds:
1. Under section 22 of the act of Congress establishing the ju,
,dicial courts of the United States, a writ of error issued by the
clerk of the Supreme Court is to be returnable at a certain day
and place therein mentioned, but that day need not be the
first day of the next term.
The forin of a writ of error is given in Curtis's Digest, p.
Monday of
599. It is made returnable to "the next." It may be that, in most cases, it is now made returnable to the first Monday in December, and that formerly, when,
the term commenced the second Monday in January, it was in
most cases made returnable to that day. This, however, is
not because of any necessity to make it returnable to the first
day of the term, but because that, in most cases, is a convenient day.
It would be ofno avail to make it so returnable when there is
not, between the day on which the writ of error issues and the
first day of" the next term, time to give the adverse party the
twenty or thirty days notice required by the act of Congress.
Nor will it do to say. that, during the twenty or thirty dhys

SUPREME COURT.
Insurance Co. of i1w Yalley of Virginia v. Mordecai.

next preceding the commencement of a term, no writ of error
is to issue; for that wotuld make it impossible ever to obtain
under section 23 a supersedeas to a judgment rendered within
those twenty or thirty days.
Judge Curtis observes that the citation "may be made returnable in term, and on such a day of the term as will enable
the plaintiff in error to have it served on the adverse party
thirty days before its return day." This is entirely correct.
And there is but a slight inaccuracy in the language which
follows, to wit: :that "if this can be done thirty days before
the first day of the next term, it should be made returnable on
that day." No doubt that, in such case, it may be made so
returnable. But, in the nature of things, it is, at the time of
issuing the writ, impossible to know whether the writ can be
served thirty days before the first day of the next term. It is
therefore properthat there should be room for some exercise
of. discretion on the subject, and that the writ should be made
returnable to some day of the next term sufficiently distant to
make it probable that there can, before that day; be the twenty
or thirty days notice.
In this very case it was, at the time the writ of error issued,
exceedingly doubtful whether, in the very short time that remained, it would be practicable to serve the writ of error under section 23, by lodging a copy thereof in the clerk's office,
where the record remains, within ten days, Sundays exclusive,
after rendering the judgment. And if the twenty days notice
could not be given in this way, it was, at the time the writ
issued, far from being certain that there-would, before the first
day of the next term, be sufficient time to give that notice in
any other way. It was therefore proper to make the writ
returnable to some convenient day beyond the first day of the
next term; and the second Monday in January was such convenient day.
2. Under the act of Congress of May 3, 1792, sec. 9, it was
the duty of the clerk of the Supreme Court to transmit to the
clerks of the inferior courts the form of a writ of error approved by two of the judges of the Supreme Court, and it wats
lawful for the clerks of the inferior courts to issue writs of.

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.
Insurance Co. of the ThlRey of Virginia v. M~ordecai.

error agreeably to such forms as nearly as the case may admit.
(Brightly Dig., p. 137, sec. 4; p. 260, sec. 6; p. 896, sees. 5,
11.)
It may reasonably be presumed that, in'discharge of the
duty prescribed by this act, the form of a writ of error was approved by two of the judges of the Supreme- Court, and transmitted to the clerks of the inferior courts, and that the writ of
error in this case was issued agreeably to such form. If so,
the writ of error must be lawful unless there be something in
the act which interms requires the writ to be returnable to the
first day of the term. But this is carefully avoided by the act,
which directs merely that the writ of error shall be "returnable to the Supreme Court."
3. If there be any 'irregularity in the writ, it is merely clerical, like the irregularity in Course, &c., v. Stead and wife, 4
Dall., 22, and Blackwell v. Patten, &c., 7 Cranch, 277. As
the irregularity of the teste was insufficient to quash or dismiss
the writ in those cases, so the irregularity in the return day is
equally insufficient to quash or dismiss the writ here. As in
Course, &c., v. Stead and wife, the writ was amendable in respect to the teste, so here it is amendable in respect to the return
day.
In Mossman v. Higginson, 4 Dall., 12, where the return day
of the writ of error was left blank, it was deemed a merely
clerical error, and, as such, amended. The writ is regularly
tested here as it was there, and, it appears, when the writ was
filed below and here.
Wood v. Lide,4 Cranch, 180, modifies or explains Hamilton
v. Moore, 3 Dall., 371, and Blair v. Miller, 4 id., 21. In those
cases, the objection was, not that the writ was defective in
form,' but that, after the return day, a whole term passed
before the record andwrit of error were filed in the Supreme
Court.
Mr. Chief Justice TAN-EY delivered the opinion of the court.
The defendant in error, on the 8th of October, 1858, obtained a judgment against the plaibtiffs in error in the District
Court of the United States for the western district of Virginia.

SUPREME COURT.
Insurance Co. of the Valley of Virginia v. Mordecai.

On the 18th. of the same month, this writ of error was sued
out, and made returnable on the second Monday in January
then next ensuing-in other words, it was made returnable on
the second Monday in January, in the present term of this
court; and the defendant in error was cited to appear here on
that day.
A motion has been made to dismiss the case, upon the
ground that, in order to bring the judgment of the District
Court before this court, the writ of error must be returnable
on the, first day of the term, and that a writ of error with a
different return day is not authorized by law, nor by the rules
and practice of this court.
By the act of Congress of May 8, 1792, (1 Stat., 278,) it was
made the duty of the clerk of this cqurt to transmit to the
clerks of' the several Circuit Courts of the United States the
form of a writ of error, to be approved by two of the judges
of this court; and the clerks of the Circuit Courts were by
that act'authorized to issue writs of error agreeably to such
form, as nearly as the case would admit. And it is by virtue
of this act alone that the clerk of a Circuit Court, or of a District.Court exercising the jurisdiction of a Circuit Court, is au'thorized to issue a writ of error to remove a case to this court.
Immediately after its passage; the form of a writ of error
was adopted and transmitted to the clerks of the Circuit
Courts, pursuant to its provisions; and that form made it retiirnable on the first day of the term of this court next ensuing
the issuing 9f the writ-that is, on the day appointed by law for
*the meeting of the court. The form then adopted has never been
changed, nor afe we aware of any case in which a writ of error
'with a different return day has been sanctioned by this court.
-It is "unliecessary, therefore, to inquire what may be the
rules of practice in this particular in other'courts. " The legal
return day was fixed under the authority of the act of 1792;
and a writ of error issued by the clerk of a Circuit Court, or
of a District Court exercising the powers of a Circuit Court,
with a different return day, or. differing in any other material
respect from the form transmitted, is without authority of law,
and will not bring up the case to this court.

DECEMBER TERM, '858.

201

Insurance Co. of the VaTlle of irgin'av. Mordecai.

The rules of the court have been framed in conformity*with
this return day of the writ; and the rule which permits a defendant in error to docket and dismiss a case if the transcript
is not filed by the plaintiff within the time therein limited,
necessarily presupposes that the writ is returnable on the first
day, and that the plaintiff might then file the transcript.
He miay, it is true, return the writ with the transcript at any
time during the term, unless the*base has been docketed and
dismissed, when it cannot afterwards be filed. yithout the
special order of the codrt. But this permission to r~turri the
writ; and file the transeript'at a subsequent day, is upon the
principle that, for certain purposes of 'convenience or justice,
the term is. considered as but one period of time-as one day,
and that day the first of the term. The ivrit. before Us was obviously issued-by some .oversight of the clerk, who followed
the form used when this court met on 'the second Monday in
January, without, it would seenm, adverting to the eircumstance
that the day of meeting had b~en changed bylaw, and that the
firstfMonday -in D.ecember, and not 'the second Monday in
January, was the first day-of the tern.
N~either can the writ of error be imended. The defendant
in error was oited -nd admonished to appear -on the second
Monday in January; and if the writ were amended, it could
not.be maintained with this citation, for the defendant must
be cited t6'oppear*on the same day that the writ is returnable.
The citation is the reguar and familiar process from a court
ofjusiie, notifying and requiring the defendant to appear and
make hig-defence, if-he has any, on the'return day' of the writ.
And. the common-law process. of a writ of error made retuirnable'on one day,.and a summons to the defendant to appear atanother, would be without precedent, -and wpuld be as objectionable as the entireabsence of a-bitation.' And the want of
pioof that the defendant was cited has'always been held to be
a fatal defect ih the process 'prescribed and required by the act
of 1789, whereby'a party is authorized to bring the judgment
of an inferior court before this court for revision-a defect
which can be cared only by the voluntary appearance of the
party entered on the record.

202.

SUPREME COURT.
,Philadelphia, Wilmington, and BaltimoreRailroad Co. v. Quigley.

Nor can this mistake be corrected by a citation from this
court. The act of Congress requires it to be issued by the
judge or justice who allows the writ of error, and it cannot be
legally issued by any other judge or court.
The case must therefore be dismissed for want of jurisdiction in this court.

THE PHILADELPHIA, WILMINGTON, AND BALTIMORE IRAILROAD
COMPANY, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. PHILIP QUIGLEY.
A railroad company is responsible in its corporate capacity for acts done by its
agents, either ex contractu or in delicto, in the course of its business and of
their employment.
It is responsible, therefore, in an adtion for the publication of a libel.
It iswithin the course of its businesp and the employment of the president and
directors, for them to investigate the conduct of their officers and agents, and
report the result to the stockholdrs.
But a publication of this report must be made under the conditions and responsibilities that attach to individuals under such circumstances.
En the absence of any malice or bad faith, a report to the stockholders is a privi.
leged communication. But-this privilege does not extend to the preservation
of the report and evidence in a book for "distribution amongst the persons be.
longing to the corporation, or the members of the community.
So far, therefore, as the corporation authorized the publication in the form em- ployed, they are responsible in damages:
But the instruction of the Circuit Court was erroneous, holding the corporation
responsible for a publication which took place after the commencement of the
* suit. Also an instruction allowing the jury to give exemplary damages, because there was no evidence that the injury was inflicted maliciously or wanton1y.
'Under the general-issue plea, no question could be raised as to the, capacity of
the parties to sue in the Circuit Court.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit

Court of the United States for the district of Maryland.
It was an action on the case for libel brought by Quigley
against the railr.oad ompany, under the circumstances which
are fully set forth in the opinion of the court, which -also con
tains the instructions of the Circuit Court-to the jury.

