SUPREME COURT.

456

Westrn Tdegra.ph Company v. Magnetic Tdegraap Company.

structions from the captain to go for the brig, and to get there
before the Hector if he could."

We are of opinion,*therefore, that the evidence clearly shows
that this collision was occasioned wholly through the fault of
,the master and pilot of the Mabey.
The decree of the Circuit Court is therefore reversed, with
costs, and the record remitted with instructions to enter a decree in favor of libellant, and have such further proceedings as
to justice and right may appertain.

THE WESTtRN TELEGRAPII COMPANY, APPELLANTS,
NETIC TELEGRAPH COMPANY AND ARUmAH

V. THE MAGS. ABELL AND ZE-

Nws BARNum.
Where there was a telegraph company from Baltimore to Wheeling,.with branches
to Washington and Pittsburg, and another company from Pittsburg to Philadelphia, and from Harrisburg to Baltimore; and the former c6mpany complained that the latter received messages at Philadelphia, sent from Pittsburg
ind.Wheeling, directed to Baltimore and Washington; and there was no di.
rect infringement of the patent right, nor any violation of a contract1 the case
is without a legal remedy.
Every person is at liberty'to use a circuitous route, if he prefers it to a shorter
route.

THIs was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of Maryland.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Cornelius McLean for the appellants,
no counsel appearing for the appellee.
Mr. cM.Leai's points for the complainants and appellants
were the following:
1st. That they are, under their' assignment, entitled to all
the business between Wheeling and Pittsburg, and Washington and Baltimore.
The defendnts could not have set up a parallel line of telegraph between those points, and the question is simply whether

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

457

Westrn
e~egap7 Copany -. M3agnetic Telegrayb Con any.

they can do indirectly and by combination what they could
not do directly.
This court has decided that question, where a sla'e was
brought into Alexandria, which the master had a right to do,
by referring it to the jury to -find whether the slave had. been
brought there for the purpose of being introduced into Wash
ington county, of the District of Columbia. (Lee v. Lee, 8
Peters Sup. Co. Rep., 44.)
In that case, the court take the ground that what eannot be
done directly cannot be done indirectly. (United. States v.
Quincy, 6 Peiers Supreme Co. Rep., 466; The William King,
2 Wheat., 148.)
It has been decided in Maryland, that although a man may
part with his personal property, yet he cannot give it away to
defraud his wife. (Feigley v. Feigley, 7 Md. Rep., 561.)
It will be contended that the contract and combination alleged on the bill-is an indirect wiy of doing what could not be
directly done, and an infringement of the complainants' rights,
so, as to destroy the value of their patent.
2d. It will be contended, as claimed in the bill, and as a corollary from the first claim, that the complainants, being entitled
to the barrying of telegraphic messages between.those points,
have also the right to the carriage of all messages reaching
those points, and destined for other points on their said line,
or other points to which'their line is the shoitest and most direct route; and that the defendants cannot lawfully combin6,
as alleged in the bill, with others, to divert them from the complainants' line.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States
for the district of Maryland.
On the 80th of-April, 1849, a contract was entered into be-tween Amos Kendall, as attorney in fact for Samuel F. B.
Morse and Alfred VMil of the first part, and the Western Telegraph Company of the second part.
In the lagreement, it 'was stated that the United States had
heretofore granted to Samuel F. B. Moise letters patent for the

STIREME COURT.
Wemter TegrapA Company v. .agneti4

pA 'ompany.

magnetic telegraph, known as Morse's Telegraph; and that the
@aid Morse subsequently assigned a portion of his interest in:
the said letters patent to Alfred and Leonard V. Gale; and the
said Morse, Gale, and Vail, sabsequeiitly, by letters of attorney,
recorded among the transfers of patent rights, constituted Amos
Kendall their true and lawful attorney, for them and in their
behalf, &c. And whereas the said Western Telegraph Company are desirous to obtain, in due form, the privileges of said
letters, patent for lines of telegraph belonging to them between
Baltimore and Wheeling, with a branch therefrom to Washington city, *and a branch from Brownsville to the city of
Pittsburg.:
Now, the. said Amos :Kendall, in consideration of thirty-six
thousatid dollars paid to him i the stock certificates of the
Western Telegraph -Company, hath, as far as he possesses legal
"authoriy,by virtue of the power of attorney aforesaid, or otherwise, granted, assigned, and conveyed, to the Western Telegraph Company, the full ana exclusive right to use the invention of the said Morse, secured by letters patent on the said
lines from Baltimore to Wheeling, with branches to Washington and Pittsburg, respectively, for the remainder of the time
yet to come in the'said letters patent, with the benefit of any
extensions and renewals thereof, it being. understood that the
right granted is to be for one wire only, unless with the consent of the patentee.
And Francis O J. Smith conveyed his right to the Western
Telegraph Compaiy's existing lines from Baltimore, in the
State of Marylafid, to.Wheeling, in the State of Virginia, and
in branches to Washington and Pittsburg cities, in full rigght,
on the 27th of March, 1857.
These conveyances 'vested in. the Western Telegraph Company all the right which the patentee had, on the conditions
stated, to. use and -enjoy the lines designated for the transmission of telegraphic messages, in as full and ample a manner as
the patentee could himself have enjoyed, had no assignment
of his right been made.
But it is alleged that another assignment of Morse's patent
was made to a company from Pittsburg to Philadelphia, aud

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.
reaern T'degra& Company v. Magneti Telegra

459
Company.

to another company from Harrisburg to Baltimore, and that,
by conspiring with those companies,,the Magnetic Company
has taken messages at Philadelphia, sent from Pittsburg and
Wheeling, directed to Baltimore and Washington, and other
similar messages from the. Harrisburg line directed to Washington; and also messages from Washington and Baltimore,
by Philadelphia and Harrisburg, to Wheeling and Pittsburg,
and through those points to points further west; and that this
was done by uniting the lines br working them together, ruder
a contract, in order that they might get, in conjunction .'Vith
the other companies, the whole of the business between those
points.
The complainants do not seem to be well advised as to what
means of combinatiofh, conspiracy, or contract, the -injurycomplained of has been done; but they charge that, by the means
alleged, their lines have in a degree been destroyed. They are
only able to say that the business on their lines has been diverted by the magnetic lines. And the equitable powerR of
the court are invoked against the injuries complained of.
The bill does not allege any direct infringement of the patcent
owned by the Western Telegraph Company by the Magnetic
Company. Those lines are free to transmit any messages that
may be forwarded on them. But the complaint seems to. be,
that at the points where the operations of the Western Telegraph cease, whether it be east, north, or west, the messages
aie not forwarded by the Western Telegraph, but they are, by.
the means used, diverted from those lines, and-sent by circuitous routes, or at least by lines of increased length.
It must be expectedthat great competiti~n will exist in the
transmission of intelligence, where telegraphic lines have been
established -throughout the country. But it would be difficult
to find a remedy for these evils, whether real or supposed, which
are not founded on contract. It was in-the power of the Western Telegraph Company to form connections with other lines,
-so as to secure uninterrupted communications. But if these
precautions have not been observed, and a supposed convenience or dispatch has been deemed a sufficient security for the
co-operation of the lines connected with the Western Teld-

460

SUPREME. COURT.
Western Telegraph Company v. Penniman et al

graph Company, and no contract, express or implied, is shown,
the complainant is without remedy.
Men, unless legally bound to certain duties, may, from whim
or caprice, indulge their supposed interests or resentments with
out responsibility. Unless certain rates of transmitting intelligence have been established, a reduction of such.rates, whether
done secretly or publicly, will affect the profits on other lines.
INothing set up in the bill, in the form of a contract, entitles
the complainant to relief. A choice of lines may well be exercised, if there be no violation of the patent, although the circuitous line passes over a greater distance, as this can be no
ground of complaint. It violates no contract, and almost
necessarily grows out of the competition in this branch of
business.
From the facts stated in the bill, there seems to be no-ground
for relief. Judgment affirmed.

THE WESTERN TELEGRAPH COMPANY, APPELLANTS, V. GEORGE
- C. PENNIMAN' AND JOHN KING.

The dfecision in the preceding case again affirmed.

THIS case, like the preceding,,was an appeal from the Cir
cuit Court of the United States for the district of Maryland,
and was a branch of the same case.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court, and was
argued by the same counsel as the preceding.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion-of the court.
This case is before us by an appeal froni the Circuit-Court
of the United States f6r the district of Maryland.
The Western Telegraph Company, a corp6ration incorporated by the States of Maryland, Virginia, and Pennsylvania,
have filed their bill against George C. Penniman afil John
King, citizens of Mary.and, and charges them with the viola'

tion of the patented rights of the Western Telegraph Company,

