SUPREME COURT.
Uited Sta v. Nyie.

There is no statement in the answer of the consideration
paid to Love for these certificates, nor of the time, place, and
circumstances, of the contract between him and the defendant's testator. It appears that the plaintiff did not direct their
sale or transfer, and that they were not disposed of on his account; and if there had been a power of attorney containing
an authority to sell, the circumstances would have imposed
upon the defendant the necessity of showing there was no collusion with Love. Upon the case as presented the court is
constrained to reverse the decree of the Circuit Court, dismiss
ing the plaintiff's bill. But the case is presented in an unsatisfactory manner.
The transaction between Love and the decedent (Hodge) has
not been exhibited to the cqurt, although parties fully cognizant of it are before the court.
We have concluded to remand the cause to the Circuit Court,
with directions to allow the parties to amend the pleadings,
and to take testimony, if they should be so advised.

THE 'UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, V. MICHAEL C.

NYE.

Where there was a petition for land in California, addressed to Micheltorena, the
Governor, which was referred by him to his Secretary, Jimeno, and by him to
Sutter, and there is no evidence that these papers, with Sutter's certificate,
were ever returned to the Governor, or sanctioned by the authorities of the
State subsequently, the evidence is not sufficient ft 9upport the claim, although
sanctioned by what is called Sutter's general title.
Sutter's geneal title was this:
In December, 1844, Micheltorena issued a general grant to all persons who had
made applications upon which a favorable report had been made by Sutter, and
directed Sutter to give them a copy of-this ordei, to serve instead of a formal

tit~e.
But this y-wer thus conferred upon Sutter was abrogated by the abdication of
the Goveri,., and, in thig case, the power was not executed for more than a
year after such abdication. The claim is therefore invalid.

THIS was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the northern district of California.

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.
Unite

409

States v. Ne

The facts of the case and grounds of the claim are stated in
the 'opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. HulM and Mr. Black (Attorney General)
for the United States,. and Mr. Benham for the appellee, upon
which side there was also a brief by Mr.Feleh, and one by Mfr.
.Hawes.
For the United States, it was contended that, under the laws
of 1824 and 1828, the Governor had not the power to issue such
a grant, and that, when it was issued, Micheltorena was not
defacto Governor.
For the claimant, it was contended that the Governor had
this power; that he was not restricted by the executive regu
lation of 1828; that the grant took effect in present; that it
was not necessary for the grantee to be named; that the party
who was to take could be proved by extrinsic evidence; that
in this case the grantee was easily made out; that the record
shows N~ye to be one, of the persons; that it was not necessary
for the grant to be delivered to Nye, but that a delivery to
Sutter was sufficient; that, under the Spanish law, copies were
public writings; and that all the claimants under this general
title were a meritorious'class.
Ir. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellee claimed, before the board of commissioners for
the settlement of land claims in California, four leagues of land
called "Wylly," situate on the Sacramento river and the Arroyo de los Venados. His evidence consists of a petition addressed to Micheltorena, Mexican Governor of the Department
of Californias, in December, 1843, at Monterey, representing
that he was a native of the United States ; that he had resided
in Mexico two years; that he had some horses and cattle, and
desired to possess a suitable place for them. The Governor
referied this petition to the Secretary, Jimeno, to obtain the
proper information on the subject. The Secretary referred the
petition to Senor Sutter, conimissioner. (encargado) of the fron-

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Ne.

tier of the Sacramento. Sutter certifies, on this reference, that
the land is now unoccupied. His certificate is dated 29th January, 1844. There is no evidence to show that these papers
were returned to Micheltorena, or that he ever saw the certificate. They are produced by the claimant.
The remainder of his evidence consists of what is termed, in
the opinion of the board, "Sutter's general title," which bears
date the 22d December, 1844, and is as follows:

"Manuel Micheltorena, Brigadier General of the Mexican
Army, Adjutant General of the Plana Mayor, Governor, Commandant General, and Inspector of the Department of the Californ ias.
"The Supreme Departmental Government being unable,
in consequence of its incessant occupations, to draw up, one
by one, the respective title papers (tilulos) for those citizens
who have solicited lands, with informe in their favor of Mr.
Augustus Sutter, captain and judge charged with the jurisdiction of New Helvetia and Sacramento:
"In the name of the Mexican nation, I do by these letters
confer upon them and their families the property of the lands
designated in their respective applications (instancias)and maps,
(disenos,) upon all and each one who have solicited (the same)
and obtained the favorable informe of the aforesaid Mr. Sutter,
up to the day of this date-so that nobody shall have power to
question their right of property, a copy hereof, which Mr. Sutter
shall hereafter give them, serving them for a formal title, with
which they will present themselves to this Government, in order to extend the salihe title in due form and on stamped paper.
"And that it may remain firm and stable in all time, I give
this document, which shall be recognised and respected by all
the authorities, civil and military, of the Mexican nation, in
this and the other Departments, authenticated with the military and governmental seals in Monterey, this twenty-second
day of December, one thousand eight hundred and forty-four
"MICHELTORENA."
"I certify this is a copy.
"1 ew .Helvetia, June 8th, 1846.
"J. A. SUTTER."

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

411

Unikdc jStates v. Nye.

The circumstances under which this order was executed appear from a deposition of Sutter to be found in the record. He
says, "That this document was delivered to hims at his request.
.That the Governor was blockaded at Monterey, and would not
deliver titles to the American and other immigrants who were
desirous of obtaining lands, and he (Sufer) advised him to
give them titles at once; and that the Governor had not time.
to d6 it in any other way. He never knew that the Governor
was blockaded until the courier came with the paper above
referred to." He I'rther testifies that the mode he had adopted
iii giving titles to individual settlers was, to deliver certified
copies.of this decree of Micheltorena to those who had rendered meritorious services to the country, and who applied to
him. That Governor Micheltorena, at his request, made a
speech to the soldiers, and promised lands .to all those whom
he (Sutter) should recommend as wortiy to receive them. The
general title was issued before the men marched from New
Helvetia. He testifies that the lauds were neyer measuied,
and there was no formal delivery of possession. There were
no surveyors or means of measurement. We have examined
with jarticularity the Mexican laws of colonization in the case
of the United States v. John A. Sutter, 'at this term, and it is
not necessary to do so in this case. It is evident that this
"general title" had no reference to those laws, as none of their
requirements were considered when it was made. It is questionable whether the previous application of the claimant was
before the Governor, or under the control of his subordinates,
at its date. The general title was sent to Sutter,. to enable
him to raise a military force to assist the Governor, who was
confined. to his capital by the forces of the insurgent chiefs,
who had determined to expel him from the country. His
ability to comply with the expectations it encouraged depended upon the success of his efforts to maintain his authority in the Department, and to secure the sanction of the Suprefme Government to the extraordinary measures he had
adopt6d for that purpose. The decree has no signification
except as an appeal to Sutter, and the persons under his influence, to come to his relief, and as a promise to them that he

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Bassett.

would make a liberal distribution of land among them, in case
they should faithfully and successfully assist him in his extremity. But the issue of the war was fatal to Micheltorena,
who was compelled to leave the country; and Sutter, his lieutenant and partisan, was made prisoner, and was. required to
abandon his chief, and to promise fidelity to his enemies.
Whatever power was conferred upon Sutter was abrogated
then, if not before. The execution of the power conferred, if
any, in favor of this claimant, did not take place for more than
a year after the abdication of Micheltorena.
The opinion of the court is; that the claim of the appellde
is invalid, and the decree of the District Court is reversed, and
the cause remanded, with directions to that court to dismiss
the petition.

THE

UNITED

STATES, APPELLANTS, V. INATHANIEL BASSETT.

Where there was a petition for land in California to Micheltorena, in July, 1844,

but no final action was taken upon it except under Sutter's general title, (see
preceding case of United Stateq v. Nye,) the claim is not considered to be sufficiently established.

This was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the northern district of California.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by rr. Hull and Mr. Black (Attorney General) for the United States, and by Mr. Blair and Mr. Volney
.E. Howard for the appellee.
The case, like the preceding one of N'ye, depended upon
the validity of Sutter's general title, and the same points are
applicable to both.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellee submitted to the board of commissioners appointed under the act of Congress of the 3d of March, 1851, (9

