SUPREME COURT.
Livermore ei al. v. 7enckes et al.

Mr. Justice DANIEL dissented, for want of jurisdiction of
the courts of the United States over corporations.
Marshall v. Balt. and Ohio R. R. Co., 16 How Reports.

EDWARD M. LIVERMORE AND DAVID B. SEXTONI APPELLANTS, V.
THOMAS A. JENCKES, ALEXANDER FARNUM, AND STEPHEN WATERMAN.
The laws of Rhode Island allow an assignment to be made by a failing debtor,
for the benefit of certain preferred creditors, and for the excluson of those who
should refuse to execute releases from their respective claims.
The law of New York do not permit svich assignments.
Where an assignment with the above reservation was made in Rhode Island by a
person and to persons residing there, which conveyed to trustees certain property in Rhode Island, and also property in New York, it was proper for the
Circuit Court of New York to dismiss a bill filed by creditors residing there,
provided there was no fraud in fact in the assignment.
The complainants never acquired nor ever had any lien upon the property in
New York, so as to subject it legally or equitably to their demand against the
failing debtors, either before or after it was carried into judgment in the Supreme Court of New York.

THIS wa's an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the southern district of New York, sitting in equity
Livermore and Sexton, who filed the bill; were citizens of
New York, and Jenckes, P'arnum, and Waterman, citizens of
Rhode Island.
The complainants claimed to set aside an assignment made
on the 19th of April, 1854, by Waterman, to Jenckes & Farnum, upon the ground that the assignment was to enure to
such of Waterman's creditors who should sign a release. Tins
provision, it was admitted, was valid by the laws of Rhode
Island, where the assignment was executed, but invalid by the
laws of New York. where the property in question was situated. Livermore and Sexton had become judgment creditors
after the assignment was made, and if it could be set aside,
the property would be open to execution upon their judgments.

DEOEMBER TERM, 1858.
Livennore et al. v. Jenckes et aL

The defendants all answered the bill, and much evidence
was taken. After the cause was heard upon the pleadings and
proofs, the Circuit Court passed the following decree.
"This cause having been heretofore brought on to be heard
at final hearing on pleadings and proofs, and having been argued by Mr. A. J Willard on the part of the plaintiffs, and
by Mlr. T. A. Jenckes and Mr. C. A. Seward on the part of
the defendants, now, on consideration thereof, it is found and
decided by the court, that the property in the State of New
York, assigned by the defendant Waterman to the defendants
Jenckes & Farnum, by the assignment mentioned in the
pleadings herein, was taken into possession by said assignees,
and converted info money, and the proceeds transferred to the
State of Rhode Island, prior to the filing of the bill in this
cause, and that the plaintifiTs have no lien on said property,
and that there was no fraud in fact in the making of said assignment, and it is therefore ordered, adjudged, and decreed,
that the bill in this cause be and the same is hereby dismissed,
with costs to the defendants against the plaintiffs to be taxed,
and that the defendants have execution against the plaintiffs
for such costs, according to the course and practice of this
court."
The complainants appealed from this decree.
The cause was submitted on printed arguments by J r
M'orrell for the appellants, and Mr Jenckes and 2Xr Clarence
A. Seward for the appellees.
The arguments upon both sides covered a great deal of
ground.
It will be seen by the decree above recited, which was affirmed by this court, that the broad question of whether the
law of Rhode Island or that of New York should govern, was
not decided by either court, but that the decree- was founded
upon th6.three following circumstances
1. That the property was converted into money, and transferred to Rhode Island.
2. That the plaintiffs had no lien on the property

SUPREME COURT.
Lwermore et al. v. Jenckes et aZ.

3. That there was no fraud in fact in the assignment.
In noticing the arguments upon the general proposition,
whether the lex locz contractus or the lex for should govern,
the reporter can give only an outline.
The first point of .1fr liorrell was the following, viz.
FIRST PoINT.-The Circuit Court erred in not deciding that
the assignment from Waterman to Jenckes & Farnum was
fraudulent and void as affecting the complainants below, and
the other creditors of Waterman residing within the State of
2 ew York at the time of the assignment, so far at least as
the assignment affected the estate of the assignor within the
State of New York, at the time of its execution and delivery
As it regards the invalidity of the assignment, the essential
facts are briefly as follows.
Waterman being insolvent, and indebted, among others, to
the complainants, and holding property and choses in action
in the State of New York, assigned to J & F., giving certain
preferences, and directing the residue to be paid to such of his
creditors at large as should release their demands within six
months, reserving to himself the dividends of such creditors
as should refuse to release.
We contend that such an assignment is adjudged fraudulent
as to creditors, by the laws of the State of New York. That,
as to property situated within the State of New York and the
claims of resident creditors, the laws of the State of New York
are paramount, and do not yield to the laws of the domicil of
the debtor.
First. This case is one of State jurisdiction. It has arisen
out of the conflict of the laws of the States of New Yori: and
Rhode Islarid. These laws relate to matters of internal administration, over which Congress, under the Constitution, has no
control whatever. The States have not seen fit to lodge in
Congress power to harmonize the conflict of their internal systems. Such a power, if lodged in the Federal Government,
would necessarily involve the right to carry the laws and systems of polity prevailing in one State within the territorial
limits of another. It would aim a blow at the integrity of the
State sovereignties. Whatever may be thought of the neces-

DECEM EIR TERM, 1858.

129

Livermore et al. v. .Tenckes et aZ.

sity or wisdom of such an accession of authority to the Union,
it is undisputed that no such grant has been made by the Federal Constitution.
Story's Conflict of Laws, sec. 18.
Previous to the Constitution, the States possessed the absolute dominion common to all independent sovereigns over all
persons and property within their territorial limits. They determined for themselves the laws by which real and personal
property within their limits should be held and transmitted.
If they recognised the dispositions of property made by foreign
States, it was on a principle of comity alone, and not an acknowledgment of any inherent vitality in the laws of the foreign State within'their own territories.
That body of oplnibn called the law of nations had no practical existence or positive efficacy, except so far as it had become
embodied in and formed a part of some local system of laws.
The Constitution created the Federal sovereignty, and invested it with certain specified powers. but neither by express
grant nor by necessary implication has the power been conferred
to communicate vitality to the laws of one State within the
limits of another.
-Wherever it was deemed desirable that a harmonious system should exist throughout the Union in regard to a particular subject. the Constitution, in regard to that subject, conferred supreme legislative power on Congress, in some instances
excluding the States from all legislative control over the subject, and in others permitting local legislation to a certain extent, but subordinating it to the paramount authority of Congress.
The power vested in Congress to establish an uniform rule
of naturalization, and uniform laws on the subject of bankruptcies, is an instance of this kind.
The system of laws adopted by Congress in such cases displace State legislation on the same subjects altogether. Itwas
no part of the intent of the Constitution that Congress should
leave the conflicting laws of the States in such cases in force,
and adopt merely a system of rules by which the conflict
arsing out of these jarring provisions should be determined.
VOL. xXI.

9

SUPREME COURT.
Lzvermore et al. v. eAnckes et ai.

Such a principle would blend the national and local legislation into an inextricable maze. It would be impossible to
define the limits of either. The line of demarcation once
destroyed, the stronger of the antagonistic powers would
gradually absorb the weaker, and the balance of the Union
ultimately be destroyed.
It is not necessary to consider whether the power granted
to Congress in regard to the establishment of bankrupt laws
could be so exercised as to make the disposition of the estates
of insolvents depend wholly and exclusively on the laws of
Congress. Until Congress exercises the power, no such
question can arise. The defendants rest their case upon the
authority of the laws of the State of Rhode Island, and not
upon those of Congress.
The power, then, of determining what disposition may be
made by insolvents of their property within the State of New
York, rests with that State to determine, free from any control in Congress, under existing laws.
If Congress cannot define a system of rules to determine
controversies growing out of the conflict of the laws of the
States, it is clear that the Federal courts cannot, independently of the States, .compose and enforce such a system.
The adjudications of the Federal courts must, in every instance, rest upon the express or the implied authority of either
the INational or State Legislatures.
The language used by Mr. Justice Grier in Caskie v. Webster (2 Wallace, jun., 131) would, on a cursory examination,
appear to imply that it was a part of the duty of the Federal
courts to apply to controversies of this character a sort of
modified yus gentium, adapted to harmonize with the objects
and purposes of the Union of the States. He says "We do
not think that the different States of this Union are to be regarded, as a general thing, in the relation of States foreign to
each other; especially ought they not to be so regarded in regard
to questions relating to the commerce of the country, wtuch is
co-extensive with the whole land, and belongs, not to the States,
but to the Union." A careful examination of that case will
show that such was not his intent.

DECRI MBE1R TERM, 1858.
Livermore et al. v. Aenc"kes et al.

The question in that case was as to the validity, in Pennsylvania, of an assignment valid by the laws of Virginia, where
it was made, in its operation upon property situated in Pennsylvania. We shall see hereafter that the case was decided in
strict conformity with the laws of the State of Pennsylvania,
and that the principle above cited was intended as an exposition of the liberal rules that governed the State of Pennsylvania
in questions arising out of the conflict of her laws with those
of other States.
The present controversy originated in the Supreme Court
of the State of lew York, which court had jurisdiction, not
only of the subject-matter, but of the parties who had been
served with process. It has been removed into this court
merely in consequence of the parties being residents of different States.
This court must therefore give the same judgment which
the courts of the State of New York would have been bound
to give, had they adjudicated the case.
See the remarks of Chief Justice Marshall in Elmendorf
v. Taylor, 10 Wheaton, 159.
Second. By the laws of the State of 'New York, an insolvent's assignment, containing the clause requiring creditors to
release or forfeit their dividends, and directing them to be
paid in that case to the assignor, is fraudulent as to creditors,
and is void.
The Revised Statutes re-enact the statute of 13 Eliz., which
is an affirmance of the common law
Third. The assignment being of a nature forbidden by the
laws of New York, according to the acknowledged principles
governing the jurisprudence of that State, it cannot be asserted
there as affecting property within that State, and as against a
creditor of the assignor there resident.
We do not find that the precise point in question has been
adjudicated in that State, but the principles governing the
case are well settled.
[Mr. MVorrell then examined the following cases 2 Mason,
157, 12 Wheaton, 259; Ware, 232, 5 Greenl., 245, 19 Wendell, 15, 3 Dallas '875, note, 14 Martin, 98, 102, Conflict

SUPREME COURT.
Tm,,eamre et al.v. Jenckw et al.

of Laws, see. 390, 4 Term Reps., 192, 5 East., Potter v.
Brown.]
These authorities go as far as authority can go to establish
the principle, that it is not only within the power, but it is the
duty, of a State to deny to strangers privileges not permitted
to its own citizens. The wisdom of such a rule can find no
better illustration than the present case. Waterman establishes himself in business in the State of New York, contracts
debts due to its citizens, until, finding himself insolvent, he
returns to the State of Rhode Island, and there executes an
assig'nment, which, if executed in this State, would have been
adjudged fraudulent as against his creditors. If the State of
New York should allow so unequal a privilege to strangers,
would she not be justly chargeable with neglecting the interests of her own citizens 9 Would it not, in the language of
Judge Ware, be equivalent to surrendering her independence9
Such a doctrine would give rise to great abuses. A citizen
of New York, in failing circumstances, wishing to make a
disposition of his property forbidden by the laws of his own
State, but permitted by another, could, by taking up a residence in the latter State, successfully evade the laws of his
State.
There is another view of this case still more conclusive. The
law of the State of New York, which in the present instance
is in conflict with the laws of Rhode Island, is a part of the
insolvent system of the State. The greatest diversity exists
between the insolvent systems of the different States and foreign countries, all, however, recognise, in greater or less degree, the right of the State to assume the disposition of the
estates of insolvents. In some countries, the system is coercive, in others, voluntary, and in some, a mixture of both,
but all unite in limiting the power of the insolvent in regard
to the absolute disposition of his estate. The laws which have
relation to the estates of insolvents, and tend to prevent the
unequal or unjust dispositions of such estates, are a part of the
insolvent system of the State.
Whatever relates to the insolvent, system of the State depends exclusively upon the lexfori.

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

183

Livemore et al. v. Jlenckes et al.

If the insolvent or bankrupt laws of a foreign country or
State are not permitted to have any extra-territorial efficacy,
for the reason that every'State must determine for itself the
best mode of administering the estates of insolvents, with how
much more reason should we refuse to permit a citizen of a
foreign State voluntarily to make such a disposition of his
property in this State, at variance with our insolvent laws 9
The cases of insolvency and of administration are similar in
principle in this respect.
Let us now consider the decisions that have been made on
this subject in sister States
[Mr. Morrell then examined the following cases
Massachusetta 13 Mass., 146, 6 Pick., 286, 19 Pick., 281,
15 Pick., 11, 19 Pick., 105.
Connecticut. 14 Conn., 555, 9 Conn., 487
New Jersey 1 Green, 326.
Missouri 6 Missouri, 302.
Pennsylvania. The precise point does not appear to be adjudicated, although there are floating dicta adverse to the
principle contended for. 8 Harms, 91, 6 Harris, 185, Caskie
v. Webster, Wallace, jun.
Maryland 7 Gill, 446, where the court states the condition
of the question upon the State authorities at that time (1848-'9)
to be as follows
The States which had determined against the validity of the
releasing clause were stated to be New York, Ohio, North
Carolina, Mississippi, Missouri, Alabama, Connecticut, and
Illinois.
In favor of the validity, Pennsylvania, Virginia, South Carolina, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, and Maine.
Virginia 8 Grattan, 457
Since the decision in Abbert v. Winn,New Jersey has acceded to the States holding such assignments void.
Varnum v. Campbell, 1 Green, 326.
Rhode Island should be added to the States sustaining the
clause. At the .present time, the States whose systems of
jurisprudence forbid such clauses are New York, Ohio, North
Carol na, Mississippi, Missouri, Alabama, Connecticut, Illinois,

SUPREME COURT.
Livermore et al. v. Jenckes et al.

Pennsylvania, New Hampshire, Maine, Maryland, and New
Jersey
Qn the other side stand Rhode Island and South Carolina,
side by side. Virginia is bound, contrary to the opinions of
her jurist, to an erroneous course of decision, and thus, on a
question of authority, throws her weight against, rather than
in favor of, the Rhode Island and South Carolina doctrine.]
SECOND PoINT.-The assignment to J & F being void by
the laws of the State of New York, the appellants were entitled to a decree in the court below for an account of the property, or the proceeds thereof, which, came into the assignee's
hands from the State of New York, such being the remedy
allowed by the State of New York, and, consequently, the
appropriate remedy to be allowed under their bill.
First. In a case arising exclusively under the laws of the
States, and where the Circuit Court obtains jurisdiction solely
through the residence of the parties to the controversy, the lex
forz is carried into the Circuit Court with the case, and the
same remedy is to be allowed, which, by the lexfort, is appropriate to the case.
Second. Had this case been carried to a decree in the New
York courts, the appellants would have been entitled to an
account against the assignees, as above stated. There are two
remedies allowed in the courts of equity of that State to a
judgment creditor, for the purpose of reaching the estate of
his debtor, and applying it in satisfaction of his judgment.
[The other subdivisions are necessarily omitted.]
IV The conveyance of the proceeds of this sale into the
State of Rhode Island does not relieve the assignees from liability to the New York creditors.
The removal of the assigned estate beyond the jurisdiction of
the courts of the State of New York was in itself an act of bad
faith. If the act of Waterman in assigning was an illegal act,
that of the assignees in carrying the assets of the estate to Rhode
Island was equally illegal. How, then, can the assignees shelter
themselves behind an act of wrong 9 They say that the claims
of other creditors tave attached to the fund, if so. it is through
their wrong that. the complainants have lost their remedy

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

135

Livermore et al. v. enek= et al.

It is quite clear that this would. have been no justiffcation,
had the assignees been citizens of the State of New York,
nor can their citizenship of Rhode Island protect them in New
York for an act of wrongful intermeddling with the estate of
an insolvsnt in New York, in fraud of New York creditors.
It is not alleged by the respondents, that, previous to the
filing, of the bill, they had received of Hill, Carpenter, & Co.,
more than the notes representing 88 per cent. of the appraised
value of the property appertaining to the mill. The presumption is, that the balance had not been paid. The presumption
is, also, that the property transferred to Hill, Carpenter, & Co.,
consisting of the machinery, goods, and stock, at the Owasco
Mills, Auburn, New York, remained m that State until the
filing of the bill. These presumptions are not repelled by
either allegation or proof to the contrary
The sale to Hill, Carpenter, & Co., being, as we have seen,
colorable, the property remained in the assignees, and must
be presumed so to have remained at the fling of the appellant's bill.
V The supposed equities of Rhode Island creditors, arising
from the pretended transfer to that State, offer no proper answer
to the appellant's demand of-a decree.
The counsel for the appellees made the following points,
which the reporter is obliged to give, without the arguments
to sustain them.
PoINT FnIs.-The assignment was valid rater partes, and
the assignees legally acquired, and legally translated to Rhode
Island, the property covered by it.
1. The assignment was valid lege loci. (See Point IV, 2, b.)
2. It was also valid by the law of the State of New York,
until its invalidity had been judicial]y declared.
8. The action of the assignees in reducing the property to
their possession,, and removing it prior to such judicial declaration, cannot be impeached.
Henriques v. Hone, 2 Edwards Ch. R., 120.
Mills v. Argall, 6 Paige, 577
Porter v. Williams, 5 Selden, 149, and cases there cited.
Averill v. Loucks, 6 Barb. S. C. R. 477.

SUPREME COURT.
Livermore et al. v. Jenckes e a.

POINT SEcoD.-The appellants had not, at the time of filing

their bill, acquired that lien upon the estate which is an indispensable prerequisite to the granting of the relief sought.
POINT THIRD.-The relief sought by the appellants cannot be
granted consistently with the rights of other creditors of Waterman, who are not now before the court.
POINT FOUTH.-A conflict between the lex for and the lex
locz does not necessarily or properly arise. The important element of a conflict of lien is wanting. The lex for can operate
upon the persons only of the defendants, the property, the
subject-matter of the controversy, is not within its jurisdiction.
It is only in cases of rival claimants to property within the
jurisdiction of the lexforz that such a conflict can arise.
But if the question of the construction of the assignment
is necessarily before the court, then, both upon principle and
authority, it should sustain the assignment.
I. The question is one of law, and not of fact. By the
Revised Statutes of the State of New York, (2 R. S., 138, sec.
4,) the question of fraud in an assignment is a question of fact.
and, as such, is to be decided, first upon the evidence, and
secondly by the language of the instrument.
a. The question of 'fraud in fact does not arise. The bill is
verified, and calls for an answer under oath. The answers are
fully responsive to all the charges of fraud alleged in the bill.
and, so far as they are responsive, are evidence for the defendants, to be taken as absolutely true, because not disproved.
:Uoughv. Richardson, 3 Story, 692.
Landon'v. Goddard, 2 ib., 267
b. When the question to be decided arises upon the language of the assignment, the question becomes one of law
rather than of fact. Its answer determines the legal construcion or effect of the instrument.
Cuningham v. Freeborn, 3 Paige, 557
Sheldon v. Dodge, 4 Denio, 217
Goodrich v. Downs, 6 Hill, 438.
IT. The single question then presented for the decision of the
court is Isthis assignment, upon its face, valid or frauduient,
within the State of New York9 It must be borne in mind-

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.
Livermore et al. v. Jenke

a.

1. That the assignor and the assignees were neither citizens
of nor residents in New York. They were citizens of Rhode
Island, and residents of Providence.
2. That the assignment was not executed in New York, but
was executed in Rhode Island, the domicil of the parties.
3. That by the laws of Rhode Island it is valid.
4. That it operated upon personal property only in the
State of New York.
5. That the personal property is not within the jurisdiction
of the lexfori.
6. That the parties proposing the question have no lien upon
the property
a. Personal property has no locality. It follows the law of
the person. The disposition and transmission of it, either by
succession or the act of the owner, are subject to that law It
cannot be legally acquired by another without the actual or
constructive assent of its owner-actual, if he voluntarily surrenders it, constructive, when the law deprives him of it by a
proceeding to which he is an indispensable party Unless he
is thus made a -party,his title to his property cannot be divested. The law, therefore, can only reach his property through
him.
Sill v. Worswick, 1 H. Bl., 690.
Pipon v. Pipon, Amb., 25.
Hence it follows that a transfer of property by-its owner,
whether nter vivos or post mortem, valid by the law of his domzell, will, if made before the law of another country has actually attached upon the property by a proceeding against its
owner, be esteemed valid within every other jurisdiction
where the property may be. (Story on Conflict of Laws, secs.
380, 883, 384.) The law of the domicil regulates the succession to and the distribution of the personal property -of the in.
testate. (Ib., Holmes v. Remsen, 20 Johns., 267.) He has a
right to make a valid distribution of it ante mortem, and the
same right to rely upon the law of the domicilas-sanctioning
that distribution, that his administrator would have as sanctioning a distribution post mortem. The right to the protection of the law of the domicil arises from the resdence of the

SUPREME COURT
Livermore d al. v. Jenckes et al.

-owner of the property, not from his decease. If, then, the assignment-is valid by the lex domwiii and by the lex loc'contractus, it operated to pass- a legal title to the assignees to the personal property in the State of New York.
b. The assignment is valid in Rhode Island. This is proved
by the answer of the assignees, and by the decisions of the
courts of that State.
Stewart v. Spencer, 1 Curtis R., 157
Dockerry v. Dockerry, 2 R. I. Rep., 547
Hqydock v. Stanhope, 1 Curtis R., 471.
c. This court should-interpret the assignment as it would be
interpreted by the courts of Rhode Island, not only ii compliance with authority, nor upon principles of comity only, but
upon-principles ofjustice. Contracts are to be interpreted by
the lex loci to which the parties had reference when the contract was made. The integrity of the instrument where, as
here, there is no fraud in fact, is-to be tried by the law of the
place of its execution. The universality of this rule, and its
every-day application,.rendgr, in the case of an ordinary instrument, -citations of authority unnecessary Authority, however, is not wanting-to - show that the rule is equally applicable to the construction of voluntary assignments. In Brashear v. West, 7 Peters, 608, the assignment was made in
Pennsylvania, and was attached in Kentucky, because it contained, amoig other things, a stipulation for a release by the
creditors. Marshall, C. J., in his opinion, said. "But whatever may be the intrinsic weight of the objection, it seems not
tl have- prevailed in the courts of Pennsylvania. The construction which the courts of -that State have put upon the
Pennsylvania statute of frauds must be received in the courts
of the United States." So, also, in the case of Dundas v. Bowler, 3 McLean, 397, Mr. Justice McLean says "The assignment, having been made in Pennsylvania, is governed by the
laws of that State.!' And so this point is not open for discussion. The rule is too well established to be now shaken or
disturbed.
Speed v. May, 17 Penn. St. Rep., 5 Harris, 91.
Adams v. Storey, 1 Paine's C. C. Rep., 100.

DECEMBER TERIM, 1858.

139

Livermore et a. v. J=7 d aZ.

Bank of Augusta v. Earle, 13 Peters, 519.
Rainsdyke v. Kane, 1 Gall.,,371.
Leroy v. Crowninshield, 2 Nfason, 151.
d. If, therefore, this court shdll construe the assignment as
it would be interpreted in Rhode Island, it should affirm its validity, and protect the assignees in their possession of the
property against the claims of the plaintiffs in this suit. The.
question of the construction of the assignment is not embarrassed by the presence of fraud in fact in its execution; The
evidence and the decision of the court below are conclusive
upon this point. The only remaining .question, therefore,
is upon the interpretation of the instrument itself, without
reference to evidence, either of the acts of the parties or to the
statute of Elizabeth as re-enacted in: New York. That re-enactment makes the question of fraud in an assignment a question of fact; and, inasmuch as that fact is, upon the evidence,
and upon the decision of the court below, eliminated from the
case, the only possible question remaining is, by what law
shall the assignment be interpreted
1. In England, effect is given to the claims of foreign assignees as against creditors resident there, and this, whether
the assignment be involuntary or i znvitum.
Locke on Foreign Attachments, 36.
Sill v. Worswick, 1 II. B]., 390.
Story on Conflict of Laws. secs. 408, 409.
2. The rule is not recognised to an equal extent in the United States. A distinction obtains here between bankruptcy
znnvitum and a voluntary assignment. Any extra-territorial
effect is almost universally denied to an assignment made
compulsorily under foreign bankrupt laws, while, to an assignment voluntarily made, ex mero motu, by a failing debtor,
effect is or is not kiven, as the authorities of each particular
State may require. These. authorities are of course numerous,
and, it is to be admitted, conflicting. Numerically, they uphold the assignment, and, in so doing, support the elementary
principle already stated, and affirm the justness of the law
which accords to a failing debtor the right to make such legal
disposition of his property among his creditors as he may elect.

SUPREME COURT.
Lvermore et al. v. Jenckes et al.

The rule sustaining the lex domicilii and the assignment, to
which all the authorities refer, is thus stated by Stoy in his
Conflict of Laws, sec. 111 "It is therefore admitted that a
voluntary assignment by a party, made according to the law
of his domicil, will pass the personal estate, whatever may be
its locality, abroad as well as at home." The distinction is
also alluded to in the case of The Watchman, Ware, 240
"The law separates that which is derived from the public
power from that which comes from the will of the party
Tried by this principle, if the assignment of the debtor in the
present case is valid in Massachusetts, it is valid everywhere,
and operated a transfer of his property wherever situated, for
the transfer was made by the simple will of the owner, and
not by virtue of the public power, as in the case of bankruptcy "
The counsel then cited the following authorities
New Hampshire Sanders v. Williams, 5 N. H. Rep., 213,
Sanderson v. Berford, 10 N. H., 260.
New Jersey Frazier v. Fredericks, 4 Zab., 162.
Massachusetts. 19 Pick., 105, where an assignment was held
valid, notwithstanding the courts of Maine, in Fox v. Adams,
(5 Greenleaf, 245,) had decided that an assignment in Massachusetts did not debar a Maine creditor from attaching property of the estate in Maine.
Connecticut Atwood v. Protection Insurance Company, 14
Conn., 555.
New York Holmes v. Remsen, 4 John. Ch. Rep., 460,
Same v. Same, 20 John. Rep., 266, 3 Wend., 566, 23 Wend.,
87, following Judge Platt's decision, but recognising the distinction between voluntary and involuntary bankruptcy, 3
Sandford S. C. R., 816, 1 Selden, 853, unreported case of
Carnley v. Tuckerman, N. Y Sp. Tr. 1 Judicial District.
Pennsylvania Milne v. Morton, 6 Binney, 853, Speed v.
May, 17 Penn. St. Rep., 5 Harris, 91, Law v. Mills, 6 Harris,
186.
South Carolina Green v. Mowry, 2 Bailey, 168.
Louisiana Tle U S. v. Bank U S., 8 Rob. L. Rep., 262,
413, Richardson v. Leavitt, 1 Lou. Am. Rep., 430.

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.
Livermore dt al. v. .encke

141

t al.

Wisconsin 6 Law Register, 737.
Courts of the United States The Watchman, Ware, 232,
the court felt constrained to carry out the doctrine in Fox v.
Adams, 5 Greenleaf, 245, 3 McLean, 397, Caskie v. Webster, 2 Wallace, 132.
Supreme Court of the iT. S. 12 Wheat., 213, where the court
recognises the doctrine in 5 Cranch, 298, 7 Peters, 608, 13
Peters, 519, 3 Howard, 483.
lNhne of the authorities cited by the appellants authorize
the granting of the relief prayed for by them. Ingranam v.
Geyer (13 Mass., 146) turned upon the point that the attaching "creditor had actually seized the debt before it was paid
over to the assignees." As the complainants -here have no
lien, the principle of this decision, if there be any in it, does
not apply Blake v. Williams, 6 Pick., 285, reaffirmed the
distinction between voluntary assignments and those made in
nvitutin, and decided nothing beyond such reaffirmance. The
court, commenting uqpon Ingraham v. Geyer, says that a decision against the operation of an assignment %nmvitum does "
not draw after it the inference that an assignment made by the
debtor himself,-lawful in the place where made, would be unavailing. And the case of Le Chevalier v.Lynch (Doug., 161)
affirms the necessity of an attachment before the assignees have
acquired possession. The Fall River Works v. Croade (15
Pick., 11) decides, that if creditors elect to become parties to
the assignment, and their debts amount to as much as the assigned property, this will complete the intended consideration,
render the conveyance effectual even against other creditors,
and vest in the assignees the whole property This rests upon.
the principle that an insolvent debtor has a legal right to convey his estate .to whom-he pleasep for a valuable consideration,
although it may benefit some and prejudice others of his creditors. The answer of the assignees states that, with one exception, all the creditors of Waterman residing in Rhode
Island, and many of the creditors residing out of that State
and in 1ew York and elsewhere, have complied with the conditions of said asignment, and become parties thereto by releasing Waterman; and that the claims of such releasing cred-

SUPREME COURT.
Livermore et al. v. Jenekes et al.

itors, and the dividends to which they are entitled, far exceed
in amount the sum which-the said assignees now hold, and the
chums also exceed the- value of all the assets of the assigned
estate.
Varnum v. Camp (1 Green, 826) recognises the- necessity of
a positive law to defeat the assignment, and relies upon the
statute of New Jersey, which declares an assignment like the
one in that case to be absolutely void. The statute of Nfew
York vitiates a* assignment for fraud only, and leaves the instrument valid inter partes until declared void. There is no
fraud in fact-in this case, and no "positive statute law " like
that of New Jersey, and so the assignment is good, unless
avoided for fraud in law, necessarily to be presumed from its
language. This cannot be presumed in this case, because the
instrument is to be interpreted lege loci, and by that law it is
valid.
In the case of Fox v. Adams, (5 Greenleaf, 245,) the first
point decided by the court is, that the debt sought to be
trusteed had not passed to the assignees under the assignment,
and all the law of the case adverse to the defendants here is
disposed of in a paragraph of a dozen lines, and solely upon
the authority of Ingraham v. Geyer.
Brown v. Knox (6 Mo., 302) decides nothing upon principle, and refers to no previous authority The case is eminently unsatisfactory, from the absence of any reason for the decikion of the court. In this case, also, the property was in
Missouri, apd was attached by the plaintiff.
Breine v. Patten, (17 La. Rep.,) as explained by the case of
the United States v. The Bank U. S., (supra,) turned upon two
points: First. It did not appear that the assignment.was valid
leq]e, loci. Second. It was not clear that the property was in
the possession of the assignees.
The examination of all these cases discloses
.irst. That in no case have the claims of the assignees
been disregarded, when the property covered by the assignment has become vested in them, and they have transmitted it
beyond the jurisdiction of the court whose aid is invoked by
.the attaching creditor, before he has acquired any lien upon it.

DECEMBER TERM, 1858

113'

Livermwre et a. v. Tenckes et aZ.

Second. That when the assignment is proved to be valid by
the lex loaz, principle and the weight of authority require that
it should be sustained, the cases refusing to sustain it proceeding rather upon the ability of the court to make the decision, than upon the general principle before cited, or in conformity with the weight of previous adjudication.
POINT FI H.-Our argument has thus far proceeded upon
the ground that the presence of the stipulation for a release in
the assignment zpsofacto rendered the instrument void. But
it is not intended to be conceded that such is the effect of that
stipulation.
1. The English cases do not hold such an assignment void.
Jackson v. Lomas, 4 T. R., 166.
The King v. Watson, 3 Price, 6.
2. There is a conflict in the decisions of the local courts of
the several States, as to the effect upon an assignment of a
clause requiring a release.
In Massachusetts, :New Hampshire, (Hawes v. Richardson,
5 W. H., 113, before the statute of that State,) Pennsylvania,
Virginia, South Carolina, Alabama, and Rhode Island, the asisgnment is held valid, and in New York, Ohio, Missouri,
Connecticut, Maine, and Illinois, it is held to be void. (1
Am. Lead. Cas., 94, 95, and cases there cited.)
In Pierrepont v. Graham, (4 Wash. 0. C. R., 232,) the assignment was upheld, and the decision in this case was followed by Judge Story in- Halsey v. Whitney, (4 Mason, 206,) and
in the case of Brashear v. West, (7 Peters, 608,) where the assignment excluded from the benefit of its provisions all creditors who should not *ithin ninety days execute a release, thecourt, after stating the many reasons why such a stipulation is
not per se evidence of an intent to hinder, delay, and defraud
creditors, and how inefficacious it would be if such were the
intent, decide, as we have already shown, that the construction which the courts of the State iu which the assignment
was made have given to the instrument must govern the conatruction to be given to it by the courts of the United States.
3. If, therefore, looking at it as an original question, the
court is satisfied that the assignment is not upon its face void,

SUPREME COURT.
Livermore et al. v. Jenckes et a.

it must, in the absence of evidence of fraud in fact, affirm its
validity; but if, on the other hand, the court is of opinion that
the question of the construction of the assignment is not an
open question, but is to be decided by reference to local law,
the court then must follow the decision in Brashear v. West,
and adopt the construction given by the courts of Rhode Island, and thus, also. the assignment must be sustained.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
This bill was filed by the appellants in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the southern district of New York, as
judgment creditors of the respondents, Waterman & Samuel
Harris, to avoid an assignment made by Waterman to the respondents, Jenckes & Farnum, in trust for the payment of the
creditors of Harris & Waterman, and of Waterman individually
The appellants seek to avoid the assignment, on the ground
that it was voidable, from its tending to hinder, delay, and defraud creditors, because there is a reservation in it to the assignee of the dividends of such creditors as should refuse to
become parties to it, and to release their demands in consideration of the dividends they might receive. It appears that a
large amount of the property conveyed was in the State of
New York, that the appellants resided there, and that they
were then creditors of Harris &Waterman. The trusts in the
deed were, first, to pay the expenses of the assignment;'secondly, to pay the debts of several preferred creditors of Harris
& Waterman, and of Waterman individually, and, thirdly, to
pay all the residue of the debts of Waterman indiviually, and
asia member of the firiaof Haizris & Waterman. The issignment contained the olitowin- proviso "Provided, That K'ue
of my said creditors-named in the third class of this assignmenit shall be entitl~t to receive any dividend or benefit under
the-deed ot assignment, unless they shall execute and -deliver
to my said assignee, within six months from the date hereof,
a fulir release and discharge, under seal, of all their claims and
demands against me, the assignor, but the dividends on the
claims and demands of- the creditors who shall not execute

DECEMfBER TERM, 1858.
Livermore et al. v. .Tenckes et d.

such release shall be paid over to me, the said assignor, or to.
such person as I shall appoint."
It appears that Harris, the copartner of Waterman, had
given to the latter a bill of sale of all their partnership property; that the firm was then dissolved, that Waterman had the
possession of it, and that he afterwards made the deed of assigment to Jenckes- & Farnum. Now, Jenckes & Farnum
received and held the property under the assignment, as well
that which was in New York as all that was elsewhere. Apart of the copartnership property was the Owasca Lake mill,
situated at Auburn, Cayuga county, State of New York, and
it is admitted that it exceeded in value the debt due by Hariis
& Waterman to the complainants. As to that property, James
Fitton was a copartner; but it appears that he joined with
Harris & 'Waterman in dissolving the copartnership, and in
authorizing Waterman to "settle up" its business, having on
the same day agreed that Harris should -convey to Waterman
the bond and mortgage which he had given to Harris & Waterman for the purchase-money due by him for an undivided
fourth part of the Owasca Lake mill. Thus Waterman was made
the sole owner of it. He supposed himself at that time to be
solvent, and that he could carry on the business of the mill,
and worked it for some time; but finding himself unable to-do
so, he conveyed it to Jenckes & Farnum, with all the other
property of the late concern which had become his, with the
intention that they should, as his assignees, make an equitable
distribution of it among his creditors; and, in his answer to
the bill of the complainants, he declares he did so without any
fraudulent intent to hinder, delay, or defraud creditors. Waterman had been, was then, and was when he made the assignment, a citizen of the State of Rhode Island. The property assigned was in diftrent States. Jenckes & Farnum accepted the
trusts of the assignment. Waterman ceased to have any control
over it, and, for aught that appears, the assignees have executed
their trust unimpeachably After the assignment was made,
the complainants obtained, in the Supreme Court of Ne York,
a judgment upon their demand against Harris & Waterman.
They have now brought their bill as judgment creditors
VOL. XX.

10

SUPREAE COURT.
Barreda 1 al. v. SiIsbee d al.

against Waterman and Jenckes & Farnum, the assignees, to
avoid the assignment; alleging that they have a lien upon the
property in New York,-or its proceeds, as creditors of Hams
& Waterman, because Waterman s assignment to Jenckes &
Farnum contained a reservation to the assignor, which, by the
laws of New York, was fraudulent. And so it would have
been, had the assignment been made in that State, by persons
residing there. But the assignment was made in the State of
Rhode Island, by a person and to persons residing there, and
is in every particular just such a one as, by the laws of that
State, merchants and others in failing circumstances, residing
there, are allowed to make in favor of creditors within that
State and those residing elsewhere, wherever the property of
the assignor may be. We see no cause for thinking it was
fraudulently made. The respondents deny it upon their oaths,
as responsively to the charge made by the complainants as
that can be done. The latter have not sustained their charge
by any proof whatever. For that cause alone, if there was no
other, we should concur with the circuit judge in the decree
given by him in this case. And we also concur with him, that
the complainants never acquired nor ever had any lien upon
the property in New York, so as to subject it legally or equitably to their demand against Harris & Waterman, either before or after it was carried into judgment in the Supreme
Court of New York. Deeming the grounds stated decisive of
this controversy, we abstain from a discussion of other points
learnedly and ably argued by the counsel in the cause in their
respective printed briefs. They were appropriate to the cause,
but we do not deem them necessary for the decision of it.
We direct the affirmance of the decree given in the court below

FREDERICK L. BARREDA AND PHILIP BARREDA, PLAINTIFFS IN
ERROR, V. BENJAMIN H. SILSBEE, JOHN H. SILSBEE, BENJA
STONE, WILLIAM STONE, GEORGE T. SANDERS, AND
MIN W
WILLIAM

D.

PICKMAN.

Where a vessel was chartered to bring a cargo of guano from the Chincha Isands
to the United States, at the rate of twenty-five dollars per ton freight, with a

