D.ECEMIBER TERM, 1858.
.Britanv. Barnaby.

States for the District of Columbia, holden in and for the county
of Washington.
The dates of the several steps taken with respect to the appeal are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Justice McLEAi delivered the opinion of the court.
The facts, as they apjear of record, on the motion to dismiss
this appeal, are as follows:
The decree of the Circuit Court was pronounced 21st January, 1856. An appeal was prayed from said decree, and granted
the same day, 21st January, 1856. This appeal was. docketed
and lismissed under the 63d rule of this court, at December
term, 1856, to wit: 27th February, 1857; and a writ of procedendo was issued 19th May, 1857.
The appellants filed this record and docketed the case 3d
April, 1857. The record in this case stated that an appeal had
been prayed and allowed, but does not give any date. There is no
statement of any prior appeal in this record. The appeal bond
is dated 4th February, 1856. There is no citation in this record.
The appellants filed the citatibnand bond, 30th April, 1857,
and directed the clerk to docket this case, to transfer the record filed in the last case to this, to attach said citation and
bond to said record, and to print all the papers in this case.
There is no statement of any other appeal than that set out;
and this seems to be the appeal that was docketed and dismissed 27th February, 1857.
As the record now stands, it is not perceived how this appeal
can be sustained.

JoHN W. BRITTAx, APPELLANT, v. WiLLIAm A. BARNABY, CLAIM-

A.NT oF THE SHIP ALiONI.
The freight upon a shipment of goods is payable, according to general rules,
when the merchandise is in readiness to be delivered to the person having a

right to receive it, and when the consignee has had the opportunity to exam

528

SUPREME COURT.
Brittan v. Barnaby.

ine the goods, to see if the obligations of the bill of lading have been fulfilled
by the ship-owner.
Where the consignee of a ship gave notice to the consignee of the goods, requiring payment of the freight of the goods as they should be landed from the ship
on the wharf; and the consignee of the goods offered to pay the freight of such
of the merchandise as had been landed, the latter did all that he was bound to
do under the notice, although not bound to do so by the commercial law, and
the refusal of the consignee of the ship to receive such pro ratafreight was unjustifiable.
When the ship-master has a larger shipment under one bill of lading than can be
landed in the business hours of one day, he must take care not to land it in
such quantities as to be unable to ascertain the pro rata freight. Unless he
takes this care, the goods landed will be under his care and responsibility without additional expense to the consignee of them until they shall be ready for
delivery.
Where the entire freight was demanded when only a part of the goods was ready
to be delivered, and the entire freight was refused when the goods were all
landed, except upon the condition that the consignee of the goods would pay
cartage and storage, this was contrary to the general law upon the subject.
This general law and the nature of freight examined and explained.
Neither party can require from the other that the merchandise shipped under
one bill of lading shall be put up into parcels for delivery or for the payment
of freight. If the shipment is large, or cannot be landed in a day, the master
has a right to ask for security or arrangement for the pro rata freight. But
he cannot demand the payment of the freight of the entire shipment before the
consignee has an opportunity to examine the goods.
The ship is not bound to land an entire shipment in a day 3 and when landed on
different days, if the shipper disregards the notice that such will be the case,
and shall not be present to receive the goods, and has made no arrangement
for the freight, then they may be stored in the ship-owner's name, to preserve
his lien upon them for freight, for safe keeping, at the consignee's expense and
risk.
A stamp upon the back of the bill of lading, stating, amongst other things, "that
the entire freight was payable prior to delivery, if required," which was put
there by the ship's owner, but which there was no evidence was recognised by
the shipper as part of his contract, cannot vary the obligations of the contract
so as to authorize a demand for freight before the goods were ready for delivery.
The general rule is, that the delivery of the goods at the place of destination, according to the bill of lading, is necessary to entitle the ship to freight. The
conveyance and delivery is a condition precedent, and must be fulfilled.
This general rule may be varied by stipulations5 but they must be in writing,
and be signed by the parties, befbre they can control the operation of the law
merchant.

It is not enough to establish that this was the mode of doing business by the shipowner, nor that a practice prevailed in conformity with it at the port to which
the goods were carried and delivered to a consignee.

DEOEMBER TERM, 1858.

529

Brittan v. Barnaby.
Such a stamp is not equivalent to a memorandum upon a policy of insurance,
which is always on the face or the margin of the policy. The rules with respect to policies of insurance explained.
The practice at San Francisco cannot be received as a custom, and therefore oh.
;igatory.. Moreover, the practice is not established, by evidence.

Tris was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the districts of California, sitting in admiralty.
It was a libel filea by Brittan, under the circumstances stated.
in the opinion of te court. The District Court dismissed the
libel, and the Circuit Court affirmed the decree.
Sherwood for the"appellant, and Mr.
It:was argued by -Mr.
Broom- for the appellee.
The points only made by the- counsel- can be noticed.

-

On

the part of the appellant, they were the following:
1. The principle of mercantile law, that the consignee of
the goods has a right to insist that they shall be dischargedfrom
the vessel, and that he may examine them before he makes
himeelf liable for the freight, is elementary.
The carrier is not at liberty to insist that the goods shall
not be be landed before he can call upon the merchant for
freight. (Abbott on Shipping, 5th Am. ed., pp. 875, 876, 377; 3d
Kent's Com., p. 214, and the notes and authorities there cited;
Flanders on Shipping, p.281, art. 281; Certain Logs of Mahogany, 2d Summer, 600; The Salmon Falls Manufacturing Co.
v. The bark Tangier; Op. Justice Curtis; Monthly Law Reportbr for May, 1858, p. 6.) This principle is also fully establishdd by the civil Jaw. (I Valin, Liber 6, tit. 3, p. 665.)
2. Ifi this actibn, alr the goods set forth in the bill of lading
were not discharged'in o~e day. The reason does not appear.
A parhavinb been. dis'elarged on the. 24th day of October,
the libellant offered to pay the freight on that part, and thus
placed it in the power of the carrier -to have relieved himself
from, theL xesponsibility of sending th-e goods to.the warehouse.
STho tird point rehlted't6 the usage set up by tje appellec
The:fourth and fifth related to the ktamps upon the bill of
lading; and upon-tbese point§.weie'cited 1 Smith's LeadingCasos, 82G,and 1.Iarso us on Contracts, 703.
-

VOL. XXI.8

3-

SUPREME COURT.
Brjttan v. Barnaby.

The points made by the counsel for the appellee were the
following:
1. By the general mercantile law, the obligation of the carrier does not extend beyond carrying from port to port; for
this he receives his freight money. All necessary and proper
charges that accrue on the goods after arrival, as wharfage,
cartage, &c., must be paid by the shipper. If he insist upon a
delivery of all the goods at once, before payment, such charges
as this renders necessary must be borne by him. According
to the course of the California trade, as it appears in evidence,
with respect to the lading and discharging of ships, the state
of the wharves, &c., storage is proper and necessary where all
the goods embraced in the bill of lading are not got out in one
day; for the master is not at liberty to leave goods exposed on
a wharf, but it is his duty to see that they are safely kept.
(Abbott on Shipping, 7th Am. ed., 494, 495; ib., 491, 492;
Flanders on Shipping, 273, 275, 276; Story on Bailments, 566;
3 Camp. R., 360; 4 T. R., 260.)
2. There is no obligation on the master to deliver part of
the goods in a single bill of lading upon payment of part of thE
freight. (Abbott on Shipping, 493, marginal paging 377.)
3. The contract of the parties here is express; that the con
signee shall receive the goods at "the ship's tackles," and tha
freight must be paid "prior to delivery, if required." The stam]
is a part of the contract. (1 Duer on Insurance, 75, 141;
Mass., 245; 14 Mass., 322; 10 Pickering,228; ib., 298; 4 Met
calf, 230; 8 Metcalf, 226; 16 Vermont, 26.) These cases ar
cited. (Chitty on Bills, 11th Am. ed., 141, note.)
4. A good and valid usage was proved; and that usage cor
trols the general rule of mercantile law, if that rule be diffei
ent from what is contended for. (1 Duer on Insurance, 25
269, 271, 264, sec. 58; 14 Wendell, 26; 17 Wendell, 207;
Wheaton, 581, 230, 231; 1 Duer, 186; ib., 267.)
5. Even if the usage were not perfect and universal, but pa
tial, yet as it was the usage of D. L. Ross & Co., and the libE
lants had notice of it by previous dealings with that house, ar
took a bill of lading with notice stamped on its face, it is bin
ing on them. (1 Duer on Insurance, 254; ib., 263, sec. 6

DEOEM&BER TERM, 1858.

581

Brittan v.Barnaby.

286, note, and cases cited; 4 Cow. and Hill's ed. of Phillips on
on Ev., 511.)
Mr. Justice -WAYN1E delivered the opinion of the court.
This cahse involves an important commercial principle, of
daily recurrence in practice, which does not appear to be well
understood and settled in Sa i Francisco. Our decision *ill
correct the misapprehension there in .regard to- the' delivery
of merchandise by ship-owners, and the payment of freight for its transportation.
The libellant was the owner and consignee of goods of A value
exceoding four thousand dollars, which were shipped iii good
order and condition at New York, on board of the ship Alboni;
to be carried and delivered in San Francisco, in the same order,
at a rate of freight expressed in the bill of lading. It amounted
to two hundred and forty-seven dollars and twelve cents, ineluding eleven dollars and-seventy-seven cents for .primage.
The bill of lading, upon its face, is in the ordinary form; but,
there wvas a stamp upon the back of it, in these words: "That
the goods were to be delivered at the ship's tackles when ready
for delivery---not accountable for loss or damage by fire or collision; freight payable prior to delivery, if required; contents
unknown." The proctors in the cause agreed that those words
were stamped on the original bill of lading.
was given
The ship arrived at San Francisco. Notice of -it
the
ship;
and
he
also reto the libellant by the consignee of
quired payment of the freight of the goods as they should be
landed from the ship ou the wharf, and that if it was not paid,
and the goods received by four o'clock of the day, such of them
as had been landed would be placed in a warehouse for safe
keeping, at the expense of the libellant. The notice and the
requirement are taken from the second article of the respondent's answer to the libel. He adds, that the libellant had refused to pay the freight according to the terms of the bill of
lading.
The testimony discloses what thd respondent considered to
be its terms, and the refusal of the libellant to acquiesce in his
interpretation.

SUPREME COURT.
Brittan v. Barnaby.

The goods were landed from the ship in parcels, on different
days, from the 24th to the 27th of October, inclusive. The
clerk of the libellant attended on each day to receive them. In
conformity to the notice which had been given, he offered to
pay the freight of such of the merchandise as had been landed.
The consignee of the ship refused to receive it, or to deliver such
goods, claiming that he had a right to demand the freight upon
the whole shipment, when he was only ready to deliver a part
of it. In the assertion of this right (certainly not in conformity
with the notice he had given to the libellant) the respondent
from day to day warehoused the goods.
. The libellant did all he was bound to do under the notice
which had been given to him. He could not have done more.
The respondent's refusal to deliver the parcels as they were
landed cannot be justified, under the notice-he had given, by
any delay there may have been in the delivery, either from
the necessity of weighing or measuring them, or from the claim
nmade by him to have the freight paid upon the whole shipment
before lie would deliver a part of it. He had taken his-course,
and the libellant acquiesced in it, by offering to pay the freight
on each parcel as it was put on the wharf, though not bound
to do so by the commercial law. The respondent's refusal has
no justification, either in law, nor can it be vindicated by any
evidence in the cause.
We do not mean to say that the libellant had a right to take
the parcels on the days they were landed, without the payment of a pro rata freight; but where a ship-master has a larger
shipment under one bill of lading than he can land in the business hours of a day, as he has the control of unloading the
cargo, he must take care not to do it in such quantities
that he may not be able to have the pro'rata freight ascertained
in the only way in which it can be done. Until it shall be
done, he is not in readiness to deliver such part, or to demand
the freight which may be due upon it. Goods so landed will
be under his care and responsibility, without additional expense to the consignee of them, until they shall be ready for
delivery.
Ordinarily, no difficulty arises between the ship's owner and

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

583

Brittan v. Barnaby.

the consignee of the goods; their interest-, convenience, and
responsibilities, usually suggest to them some arrangement for
the freight beforehand, by which goods landed from day to day
may be taken without delay byjthe consignee of them. In this
instance, however, no opportunity was given to the libellant
to make such an arrangement, the consignee of the ship having absolutely demanded the whole freight of the shipment as
the condition for the delivery of any part of it.
On the fourth day, when all of the libellant's shipment had
been landed, and before they were sent to a warehouse, he devianded from the consignee of the ship a delivery order for all
".the merchandise specified in the bill of lading, tendering at the
same time, in gold, the whole freight due. The delivery order
was refused, the answer being that the goods were subject, in
addition to the freight, to a charge for storage and cartage.
The last was also warehoused by the respondent, as those of
the three previous landings had been.
The foregoing is a sufficient statement of the facts and evidence in this case for the decision of it. It will not be necessary to notice again the attendance of the clerk of the libellant
on the days of landing, to receive the goods and pay the freight.
The word freight, when not used in a sense to imply the
burden or loading of the ship, or the cargo which she has on
board, is the hire agreed upon between the owner or master
for the carriage of goods from one port or place to another.
That hire, without a different stipulation by the parties, is only
payable when the merchandise is-in readiness to be delivered
to the person having the right to receive it. Then the freight
must be paid before an actual delivery can be called for. In
other words, the rule is, in the absence of any agreement to
the contrary of it, that freight, under an ordinary bill of lading,
is only demandable by the owner, master, or consignee of the
ship, when they are ready to deliver the goods in the like good
order as they were when they were received on board of the
ship. Suchis the general rule. Neither party can require fror
the other that the merchandise shipped under one bill'bf lading
shall be put up into parcels for delivery, or for the payment of
freight. They may do so by stipulation in the bill of lading,

SUPREME COURT.
Brittan v. Barnaby.

or by subsequent agreement, for either of the purposes justmentioned. The master is bound to deliver the goods in a
reasonable time. What may be so, depends upon the facilities
there may be for the discharge of the cargo at the port of delivery, and the impediments in the way of it. When the shipment is large, or, from the master's storage of it, it cannot be
landed in a day, if he lands a part of it, his lien upon the whole
gives him the power to ask from the consignee of the merchandise a satisfactory security for the payment of the entire freight
as called for by the bill of lading. But a security or arrangement is all that he can ask. He may not demand that the
whole freight of the shipment should be paid before the consignee has had the opportunity to examine his goods, to see if
the obligations of the bill-of lading have been fulfilled by the
ship-owner. Nor is the ship bound to land an entire shipment
in a day, for the proper storage of the goods is the master's
care, and he may do it in such a way as may be most advantageous to the ship, taking care that it shall not be done to the
injury of the goods, or'in such a manner as to produce unreasonable delay in the delivery of them. And when landings of
the same shipment are made on different days, if the shipper
disregards the notice given to him that such will be the case,
and he shall not be present to receive the goods, and has not
made an arrangement to secure the payment of the freight,
they may be stored for safe keeping at the consignee's expense
and risk, in the ship-owner's name, to preserve his lien for the
freight. This course was not pursued in this case by the consignee of the ship. He attempts to justify what he did upon
the allegation in his answer to the libel, that the bill of lading
contained a stipulation, that the freight to be earned on the
whole shipment was payable when a portion of it had been
landed.
The bill of lading, upon the face oT it, is the ordinary one
between parties for the transportation of merchandise. The
mercliandisb mentioned in it was to be carried from New York
to San Francisco at fixed rates -for freight, with primage and
average accustomed.: There is no other stipulation or condition in it than the undertaking for carrying the goods, and

DECEM1BER TERM, 1858.

535

Bri*fan v. Barnay.

that of the shipper to pay the freight. But the consigpee of
the ship claimed that the stamp upon the back of the bill of
lading was 'equivalent to one. So his counsel contended in
argument. This stamp was in red ink, and was put on the
bill of lading by the ship's owner. We will suppose it had
been niade by Captain Barnaby before he signed the bill of
lading. But it was not signed by the parties, nor is there any
proof that it was ever recognised by the shipper as a part of
his contract., lothing seems to have been said about it when
the bill of lading was signed, nor until it was claimed in San
Francisco to be a part of it. It no doubt has a relation to the
subject-matter of the bill of lading, and was put there by Captain Barnaby for that purpose; but unless it received the assent of the shipper, it cannot vary the obligations of the contract so as to authorize a demand for freight before the goods
were ready for delivery. The question we are now considering is not what effect might be given to such a stamp upon a
bill of lading by proof that the parties, at the time it was made,
adopted it as a stipulation or agreement that the shipper was
to pay the whole freight upon his shipment when a portion of
it had been landed from the ship; but the question is, whether
such a stamp, of itse7f, upon a bill of lading, can change the
well-known commercial rule in respect to the delivery of goods
and the payment of freight. It is that which is asked in this
case by the respondent. There is not a word of proof that the
shippers in New York, or the consignee in San Francisco, ever
regarded it in such a light; none that Captain Barnaby considered the stamp-to be a part of the bill of lading assented to
by the shipper, until it was asserted by him to be so, in his
answer, after the consignee of the ship had attempted to enforce it, as a part of the contract, upon the libellant. It was
propdrly resisted. The personal obligation to pay freight rests
upon a bill of lading, when one has been given, and the payment of it is made a condition of delivery. The general rule
is, that the delivery of the goods at the place of destination,
according to the bill of lading, is necessary to entitle the ship
to freight. The conveyance and delivery is a c ndition precedient, and must be fulfilled. (3 Kent, 218.)

SUPREME COURT.
Brittan v. Barnaby.

Such a stamp cannot be considered a stipulation, according
to the legal meaning of that word. All writers upon commercial law use the word stipulation to denote a particular engagement, which may be insisted upon, before it can control the
general operation of law, or vary a contract. Such stipulations are not uncommon between ship-owners and shippers of
merchandise, in charter-parties and in bills of lading. But
when done in either, they must be made in words sufficiently
intelligible to indicate an agreement that the operation of the
law merchant, in respect to those instrumenis, is not to prevail; and the stipulation must be in writing, and be signed by
the parties; before it can be received as an auxiliary to explain
how the contract is to be performed. A memorandum or
stamp upon the back of a bill of lading is insufficient for such
a purpose, though the ship-owner may have made it as an intimation of his mode of doing business, or that a practice prevailed in conformity with it at the port to which the goods
were to be carried and delivered to a consignee. An attempt
was made to assimilate the stamp in this case to a memorand!um on a policy of insurance. In the first place, as lo6se, indefinite, and dangerous, as some of the decisions in the English and American reports are, concerning memorandums of
that kind, no case can be found in either, in which effect has
been given to any memorandum which was not on the face or
in the margin of the policy. But if such a case can be found,
we should not feel ourselves at liberty to extend it to a bill of
lading for the transportation of merchandise.
Those instruments of commerce are construed by very dif-.
ferent principles and usages. The cases cited by counsel to
show that the memorandums upon the face of the one were
analogous to a stamp put upon a bill of lading, do not apply.
Neither do the texts from Duer, 75, 141, do so. The rule in
respect to policies of insurance is, that it is not material
whether the written words of a policy are inserted in the body
of the instrument, or written on its face or on the margin of
it; but they must be -there in fact; must have been written
before the execution of it, or by mutual consent after the execution, and before the commencement of the risk. Thus they

DEOEMBER TERM, 1858.

587

Erittah v. Barnaby.

then form parts of the contract, it having been determined,
from the usages of insurances, that the parties contracted in
reference to them, and that ihe signature and acceptance of
the policy was proof that they had done so., All of the other
cases cited are agreements, varying, in some particulars, the
payment of notes of hand, entered into contemporaneously
with thd execution of the notes, and which, by proofs, were
shown to have been meant by the parties to be a part of them.
An atthmpt was also made to show that a practice prevailed in
San Francisco which gave an effect to the stamp upon the bill
of lading, so as to control the general rules of commercial law
in respect to the payment of freight, and the delivery of merchandise from ships. - Whatever may be the practice there, or
however general it may be, it is too recent in its use to make
an exception, on the ground that it was a custom. The trade
of San Francisco is already large; every day develops its resources and the advantages of its position for commerce. No
doubt it has not as yet those facilities for the landing of merchandise and loading of ships which our older ports have; but
that will not give to any.practice there, however general it may
have become, the force of custom to release its merchants from
the obligation of an ordinary bill of lading. If inconveniences
exist in the particular just mentioned, it will be best for the
merchants of San Francisco, and those with whom they deal
in other parts of the world, that the contract of a bill of lading
should have its fixed meaning and obligation, and that it is
Qnly alterable by express stipulations made in the way which
has been already stated in the decision.
The testimony, however, in this case shows a very uncertain
opinion and a fluctuating practice in San Francisco upon the
subject of the delivery of shipments of goods and the payment
of freight; that such a demand as was made upon the libellant
to pay his freight upon all the merchandise mentioned in his
bill of lading, when only a portion of it had been landed upon
the wharf, had only been acquiesc.ed in by many of the merchants there to avoid-trouble, to get early possession of their
importations, and from an unwillingness to be troubled with
lawsuits. There are also differences of opinion as to the effi-

SUPREME COURT.
Brittan v. Barnaby.

cacy of such a stamp as there was upon the bill of lading in
this case, many of them, from their experience and knowledge
of trade elsewhere, having a more correct apprehension of the
commercial law than the reverse of it, which was attempted to
be imposed upon the libellant. Nor can any previous assent
to the usage of a particular firm engaged in the shipping business, though acquiesced in by one who had had other dealings
with it, be interpreted into an agreement so as to deprive
him of a right under an ordinary bill of lading subsequently
made.
The view which we have given of this case determines the
whole controversy. It comprehends every point raised by the
record, or made in the argument of it. The respondent having in
the first instance demanded the entire freight called for by the
bill of lading, without any right to do so, and having refused
to deliver the merchandise belonging to the libellant when the
last parcel of it was landed on the wharf, and when the freight
due upon the whole of it was tendered, on the ground that
there were due charges for cartage and storage, did so without
color of law for such refusal. Our judgment is, that those
charges must be paid by the respondent, and we shall reverse
the decision of the court below, and direct a mandate to be
sent to the Circuit Court to order a decree for the libellant for
the sum of four thousand three hundred and sixty-seven dollars forty-five cents, with interest from the 2d day of November, 1855. (9th vol. Stat. at L., 181.)
The sum mentioned is proved to have been the value of the
libellant's merchandise after freight and primage bad been deducted, when it was wrongfully detained by the respondent.
The respondent will also be charged with the costs which have
been incurred in the prosecution of this libel.
Mr. Justice DANIEL dissents to the decision in this case,
upon the grounds that the court of admiralty in this country,
as in England, can take no cognizance of charter-parties or
bills of lading, and because this case was within the plain jurisdiction of the courts of the State of California, either at coii.
mon law or in equity.

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

539

Commissioners of Knox County, Indiana, v. AsyinwaZ et aL

THE BOARD o COMMISSIONERS OF THE COU1NTY oF KNOX, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. WILLIAM H. ASPINWALL, JOSEPH W. ALSOP, HENRY CHAUNCEY, CARLES GOULD, AND SAMUEL L. M.

BARLOW.
Where the statute of a State provided that the board of commissioners of a county
should have power to subscribe for railroad stock, and issue bonds therefor, in
case a majority of the voters of the county should so determine after a certain
notice should be given of the time and place of election, and the board subscribed for the stock and issued the bonds, purporting to act in compliance
with the statute, it is too late to call in question the existence or regularity of
the notices in a suit against them by the holders of the coupons attached to the
bonds, who were innocent holders, in this collateral way.
In such a suit according to the true interpretation of the statute, the board were
the proper judges whether or not a'majority of the votes in the county had been
cast in favor of the subscription to the stock.
The bonds on their face import a compliance with the law under which they were
issued, and the purchaser was not bound to look further for evideuce'of a compliance with the condition to the grant of the power.
A suit could be maintained upon the coupons, without the production of the
bonds to which they had been attached.

THIS case was broughtup by.writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of Indiana.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Beverdy Johnson and Mr. B. 'W.Thompson for the plaintiffs in error, on which side there was
also a brief by 3r. McDonald and XrM. _Porter, and for the defendants in error" by Mr. Benjamin and MA'r. Vinton, on which
side there was also a brief by Mr. Judah.
Upon the trial in the court below, the general issue and five
special pleas were filed. These pleas alleged the want of a
previous legal notice; that there ought to have been a notice
of the intention of the board to raise the subscription from
$100,000 to $200,000; that there was no record of the judgment of the board; that the bonds were issued all at the same
time, and not at the rate of one-fifth per year, as the statute

