DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

489

Clearwater v. feredit7&et aZ.

HIRAMr CLEARWATER, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. SOLOMON MEREDITH, PLEASANT JOHN ON, AND THOMAS TYNER.
Where four persons made a contract with a citizen of Ohio, and three of the four
were citizens of Indiana, and suit was brought against the three in the Circuit
Court of the United States for Indiana, the non-joinder of the fourth was jus
tified by, the act of 1839, (5 Stat. at L., 321.)
The decision at tht present term, in the case of Hill . Smith, again affirmed.
THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of Indiana.
On the 18th of March, 1857, Hiram Clearwater, a citizen of
Ohio, brought a suit against Johnson, Meredith, and Tyner,
citizens of Indiana; and in the declaration said, that the "defendants, together with one Caleb B. Smith, who, at the time
of the commencement of this suit, was not a citizen of the
State of Indiana, and is therefore not joined as a defendant
herein, made and delivered to the plaintiff their certain written
agreement," &c., &c.
The cause of action:Was a written agreement, signed by the
four persons above named, guarantying that the stock in a
railroad company should be at par within a certain time, in
consideration that Clearwater had executed a deed of conveyance of land to Meredith, (to whom the same had been sold by
the company,) Clearwater having previously contracted to sell
it to the company.
The three defendants named in the caption appeared and
filed the following demurrer:
"The said defendants, by counsel, come ard say the declaration of the said plaintift, and the several counts therein contained, are severally insufficient in law to enable said plaintiff'
to have and maintain his action against said defendants, and
for cause of demurrer shows to the -ourt the following:
"1 The jurisdiction of the court is not shown by proper avernent.
."2. 1o sufficient consideration is shown for the undertaking.
"3. The several counts do not contain facts sufficient to consdttue a cause of action."

SUPREME COURT.
(Jlearwa. r v. XeredigJet aL

This demurrer was sustained by the court below, and a writ
of error brought this ruling before this court.
It was argued by Mr. Pugh for the plaintiff in err6r, and Mr.
'Thompson for the defendants.
With respect to the first ground of demurrer, Mr. Pugh contended that the non-joinder of Smith was excused by the first
section of the act approved February 28, 1839, (5 Stat. at L.,
821, 322; 14 Peters, 60;) and, moreover, the 6mission should
havd been pleaded in abatement. It was not a ground of demurrer. With respect to the Qther two grounds, the conveyance of the land to Meredith was a sufficient consideration for
the promise of the defendants
Mr. Thompson contended that the omission -was fatal, inasmuch as the declaration does not show a case of which the Circuit Court had jurisdiciion.. The'rule isthis: that *hen there
are two or more plaintiffs or defendants, each df the plaintiffs
must be capable of suing, and each of the defendants of being
sued, in order to support the jurisdiction. Bank. of Vicksburg
v. Slocomb et al., (14 Pet., 64,) where this interpretation is
given to the act of FebrUary 28, 1839. (5 U. S. Stat., 321.)
The declaration here should show that Smith is a citizen of a
different State from the plaintiff; for, in the Federal courts,
jurisdiction must be shown. Ifit is not shown, the objection
is fatal, at any stage of the case. It needs .no plea. And this
is, the ground, evidently, upon -which the demurrer was sustained below.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of Indiana.
The plaintiff, who is averred to be a citizen of the State of
Ohio, broughthis action against Solomon Meredith and Thomas
Tyner,' citizens of Indiana, on -the 12th July, 1853, together
with Caleb B. Smith, who, at the time of the commencement
of this suit, was not a citizen of the State of Indiana, a-d is
therefore not joined as a defendant herein, &c. ,

DECE1MBER TERM, 1858.

.491

Ckarwater v. .Meredithd aL

The declaration has three counts, one of which contains the
following guaranty:
"Whereas Hiram Clearwater, of the city of Cincinnati, on
the 6th of May, 1853, contracted -with the Cincinnati; Cam.
bridge, and Chicago Short Line Railway Company for the sale
of a tract of land situate in Wayne county, Indiana, lying on
the national road, about four miles east of Cambridge city, and
adjoining the lands of John Jacobs and others, containing
three hundred and twenty acres, for the consideration of ten
thousand dollars, to be paid in the capital stock of said company at par; and whereas, in such contract of sal, it was agreed
that said company should furnish to said Clearwater a guaranty that the capital stock of said railway company should be
at par within one year from the completion of the entire line
of said road: Now, in consideration that the said H. Clearwater has, with the consent of the said company, and at our
request, executed a deed of coniveyance to Solomon Meredith
for said land, to whom the same has been sold by the said company, we, the undersigned, hereby guaranty that the said stock
of said-company, which has been issued to said Clearwater in
pursuance of said contract, shall be worth par in "the city of
*Cincinnatiwithin one year from the time the said railroad shall
be completed from Cincinnati to lNewcastle, Indiana, and that
said road shall be completed within two years from the 1st
day of October, 1853, and signed by Pleasant Johnson, S. Meredith, Caleb B. Smith, and Thomas Tyner."
The defendants, by counsel, come and say the declaration of
the said plainti, and the counts therein contained, are severally insufficient in law to enable said plaintiff to have and
maintain his action against said defendants; and.for cause of
demurrer shows to the court the following:
1. The jurisdiction of the court is not shown by proper averment.
2. 1o consideration is shown for the undertaking.
3. The several coufits do not contain facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action; wherefore the defendants pray judgment, &c.
If this be regarded as a plea to the jurisdiction of the court,-

SUPREME COURT.
Clearwater v. Meredith d aL

it is argued that the suit is brought on a joint contract executed by the defendants in error, when only two of them were
served with process, and the third one, Caleb B. Smith, who,
at the time of the commencement of the suit, was not a citizen
of the State of Indiana, and is therefore not joined as a defendant herein, &c.
The first section of the act of February 28th, 1889, provides
that "where, in any suit at. law or in equity commenced in
any court of the United States, there shall be several defendants, any one or more of whom shall not be inhabitants of or
found within the district where the suit is brought, or shall not
voluntarily appear thereto, it shall be lawful for the court to
entertain jurisdiction, and proceed to the trial and adjudication
*of such suit between the parties who may be properly before
it; but the judgment or decree rendered therein shall not conelude or prejudice other parties not regularly served with process, or not voluntarily appearing to answer."
In the case of the Railroad Bank of Vicksburg. v. Slocomb
et al., (14 Peters, 65,) it is said the 11th section of the judiciary act declares that no civil suit shall be brought, before
either of said courts, against an inhabitant of the United States,
by any original process, in any other district than that whereof
he is an inhabitant, or in which he shall be found at the time
of serving the writ.
It has been held that this is a personal privilege of not being
sued out of the district in which the defendant may live, or in
which he- slall be found oh serving the writ, and that it may
be waived by the defendant. And it is said, in the above
opinion, "that it did not confemplate a change in the j urisdiction of the courts, as it regards the character of the parties,
as prescribed by the judiciary act, and expounded by this
court-that is, that each of the plaintiffs mhst be capable of
suing, and each of the defendants capable of being sued;
which is not the case in this suit, gome of the defendants
being citizens of the same State with the plaintiffs."
It is well known that the act of 1889 was intended so to
modify the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court as to make it more
practical and effective. Where one or mo'v of the defendants

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

493

Lea v. Polk County Coppe Compoany.

sued were citizens of the State, and were jointly bound with
those who were citizens of other States, and who did not voluntarily appear, the plaintiff had a right to prosecute his suit
to judgment against those who were served with process; but
such judgment or decree shall not prejudice other parties not
served with process, or who do .notvoluntarily appear.'
N'ow, it is-too clear for controversy, that the act of 1839 did
intend to change the chart cter of the parties to the suit. The
plaintiff may sue in the Circuit Court any part of the defendants, although others may be jointly bound by the contract
who are citizens of other States. The defendants who are
citizens of other States are not prejudiced by this procedure,
but those on whom process has been served, and who are made
amenable to the jurisdiction of the court.
And in regard to those whose rights are in no respect affected by the judgment or decree, it can be of no importance
of what'States they are citizens, If one of the defendants
should be a citizen of the same State with the plaintiff, no
jurisdiction could be exercised as between them, and no prejudice to the rights of either could be done.
The plea to the jurisdiction seems not to be well taken, and
it cannot be sustained.
In the case of Hill v. Smith and others, decided at the present term, this court held that the demurrer filed to the counts
on the guaranty did not bring up the validity of that instrument for the action -of the court, and that it must be specially
pleaded, with suitable averments. And the court reversed the
judgment, and remanded it to the Circuit Court, with leave,
on the l a.yment of costs, to move to amend the -pleadings, so
as to raise the questions on the guaranty. The same order is
made in the present case.
Judgment reversed.
WILLIAM

P. LEA, APPELLANT, v. THE POLK COUNTY COPPER
COMPANY ET AL.

The certificate of probate oC a deed in Tennessee did not say that the witness
swore that the grantor acb'uowledged it on the day of its date. But as the cer-

