SUPREME COURT.
State of New York v. Dibble.

contracts for the transmission of money, free of charge, to
those posts where the United States should-designate it to be
put. Such a power in the Secretary of the Treasury is a
necessary one for the transaction of the busiiess of the Govern-ment, pervading, as it does, every parL of the country. The
exercise of it, however, requires great care and caution in the
selection of agents for such a purpose,, and no authority short
of the most certain should be taken to establish the representative character of any one for a private company or-corporation to enter into such a contract with the Secretary.
The United States, as plaintiff in this action, has failed to
establish the contract which it alleges in its declaration had
been made with the City Bank of Columbus, for the transmission of money; and we direct the judgment given in the court
below to be affirmed.

THE PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF IEW YORK, EX REL. ASA CUTLER,
JOHN UNDERHILL,-JUN., AND ARZA UNDERHILL, PLAINTIFFS IN

ERROR, V. EDGAR
COUNTY.

0. DIBBLE, COUNTY JUDGE OF GENESEE

A statute of the State of New York, making it unlawful for any persons other
than Indians to settle or reside upon any lands belonging to or occupied by
any nation or tribe of Indians within that State, and providing for the summary ejectment'of such persons, is not in conflict with the Constitution of the
United States, or any treaty, or act of Congress, and tihe proceedings under it
Aid not deprive the persons thus removed of property or rights secured to them
by any treaty or act of Congress.

THIs case was brought up from the Supreme Court of the

State of New York b "a writ of error issued under the 25th
sectioh of the judiciary act.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court, And is reported in the New York State courts, in 18 Barb., 412, and 2d vol.
of Smith's Reports of the Court of Appeals, 203, being 16 -New
York Reports.

DEOEMBER TERM,. 1858.
State of New

86T

ork v. )i bbe

It was argued by'Mr. Brown and .Mr. Gillet for the plaintiffs
in error, and by 17r. JMartindalefor the defendant.
The only question in this court was, whether the statute of
1821 was in conflict with the Constitution of the United States,
or any treaty, or act of Congress, and whether the proceeding
under it had deprived the relators of property or rights secured
to them by any treaty or act of Congress.
The counsel for the plaintiffs in error contended hat the
Constitution of the United States had given to Congress power
to regulate commerce with the Indian tribes; that thi§ power
bad been exercised by'the passage'of the act of 1802, (2 Stat.
at L., 139 ;) that the act of 18a4.(4 Stat. at L., 729) repealed so
much of this act as applied to the Indians west of the Mississippi, but left it operative upon the Indian-ds east of the Mississippi; that the law of New York was repugnant to this act of
Congress ; that by the treaty of 1794 (7 Stat. at L., 45, art. 2)
the President of the United States was made the exclusive
judge of the force and measures necessary to remove intruders
upon these very Indians; that both these enactments cou.J.
not'stand, and if so, the State law must give way; and that
there were reservations in few York where no treaties were
in force upon which the State law could properly operate. It
was also contended, that even if the New Yok law of 1821
was not invalid at the time of its passage, it had been superseded and annulled by the treaties which the United States
had made with the Indians in question in 1888 and 1842,.s0
far at least that Ogden and Fellows could enjoy the rights
which those'treaties secured to them.
Tin support of the views first mentioned, the counsel referred
to the well-known cases of Sturges v.- Crowninshield, and Gibbons v. Ogden, and also to 5 Howard, 410; 14 Peters, 540 ; 3
Cowen, 714; 7 Howard, 283.
The counsef for the dqfendant in error contended that the
act of Congress -of 1802 had no applicafion to the Few York
Indians; that, from the earliest history of the colony of New

SUPREME COURT.
State of New York v. Dibble.

York, the Indians, and especially the Senecas, had been under
the protection of her laws, and that such protection had been
continued from the time of the Revolution; that the pre-emptive right to the Indian lands within the State of New York
belonged to the State, and was never ceded to the United
States; that, consequently, the power given to Congress to
regulate commerce, did not apply to such tribes; that the
United States by their measures had been the means of breaking up the tribe of Seneca Indians into small and detached
bands or reservations, which were necessarily placed under the
police regulations of the State, made to protect the public
peace. With respect to the alleged treaties, the counsel contended that the Tonawandas had never executed them, but
constantly and unanimously refused to be bound by them;
that they have never received any portion of the consideration
moneys provided in said deeds; that the land upon which
they now lived had always been occupied by them, and that
neither Congress nor the treaty-making power could arbitrarily take away their property.
Mr. Justic e GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is brought before us by awrit of error to the Supreme
Court of New York, under the 25t.h section of the judiciary
act. It had its origin in a proceeding before the county judge of
Genesee county, instituted by the district attorney against Asa
Cutler, John Underhill, and Arza Underhill, the relators, pursuant to the provisions of an act of Assembly entitled "An act
respecting intrusion on Indian lands," passed March 31, 1821.
This act made it unlawful for any persons other than Indians
to settle and reside upon lands belonging to or occupied by
any tribe of Indians, and declared void all contracts made by
any Indians, whereby any other than Indians should be permitted to reside on such lands; and if any persons should settle
or reside on any such lands contrary to the act, it was made
the duty of any judge of any county court where such lands
were situated, on complaint made to him, and due proof of
such residence or settlement, to issue his warrant, directed to
the sheriff, commanding him to remove such persons.

DECEMBER- TERM, 1858.

369:

Sate of New York v. Dibble.

On notice to the relators of the institution of this proceeding,
they appeared before the judge and pleaded to his jurisdiction,
on the ground .that they had entered and occupied the lands, claiming title under a written instrument adversely to the Seneca natiofi of Indians, and therefore, by.the Constitution and
laws of the State, they were entitled to a trial by jury, accord-.
ing to the course of the common law, and could not thus be
removed by summary proceedings under this act.
This plea was overruled by the judge.. The relators then
pleaded that this tract of 12,800 acres, called the Tonawanda
reservation, was not owned by the Seneca Indians; that by .
treaty made with the United Status on the 20th ofMay, 1842,
the Seneca nation of Indians had by indenture set forth in the
treaty conveyed to Thomas Ludl.ow Ogden and Joseph Fellows
this tract of land, with others; that this grant was duly confirmed by the State ofMassachusetts, pursuant to the provis-,
ions of the act of cession made between thai State and the State
of New York, on the 16th of December, 1786.; that the whole
amount of the consideration stipulated by the treaty and-deed
had been paid by said Ogden and Fellows; and that relators
were in possession under said Ogden and Fellows, and ad-.
versely to the Indians. ' They therefore denied the power and
authority of the judge to determine their right to the lands ink
their possession, or to remove them, under-the powers .on-'
ferred by the act of Assembly of New. York.
After hearing the parties, the judge decided agaihst the relators, who removed the proceedings by certiorari to the Supreme
Court.
The record contains the testimony on both sides, and numer-"
ous documents concerning the treaty with the Seneca Indians,
and also the subsequent proceedings by the officers of the Government, -It Will not be necessary to-a clear apprehension of.
our decision in this case to state them particularly, nor is it
material to. our inquiry whether the judge may have eirred in.
his decision, that "the Seneca nation had not duly granted and
conveyed the reserve in question to Ogden and Fellows..
The Supreme Court and Court of Appealsof New Yorkhave
decided, "that the provisions of this act respecting intrusions.
VOL.XXI.

24

SUPREME COURT.
State of New York V. Dibble.

on Indian lands, which authorize the summafy removal of per
sons, other than Indians, who settle or reside upon lands belonging to or occupied by any nation or tribe of Indians, are
constitutional, and that a citizen who enters upon their land
before their title .has been extinguished, and they have removed, or have been removed by the act of the Government,
can acquire no such right of property or possession as is within
the protection of the provisions of the C.onstitution which secure
a trial by jury." They therefore affirmed the judgment of the
county judge.
The only question which this court can be called on to decide is whether this law is in conflict with the Constitution of
the United States, or any treaty or act of Congress, and whether
this proceeding under it has deprived the relators of property
or rights secured to them by apy treaty of- act of Congress.
The statute in question is' a police regulation for the protection of the Indians from intrusion of the white people, and to
preserve the peace. It is the dictate of a prudent and just policy. Notwithstanding the peculiar relation which these Indian
nations hold to the Government of the United States, the State
of New York had the power of a sovereign over their persons
and property, so far as it was necessary to preserve the peace of
the Commonwealth, and protect these feeble and helpless bands
from imposition and intrusion. The power of a State to make
such regulations to preserve the peace of the community is absolute, and has never been surrendered. The act is therefore
not contrary to the Constitution of the United- States:
Nor is this statute in conflict with any act of Congress, as no
law of Congress can be found which authorizes white men to
intrude on the possessions of Indiabs.
Is it in conflict with rights acquired by Ogden and Fellows,
under the treaty, and contract making a part of it? If the
treaty of 1842 had been executed; if the United States, in their
character of sovereign guardian of this nation, had delivered
up the possession to these pur'chasers, then this statute of New
York, when applied to them, would clearly be in conflict with
their rights acquired under the treaty B.ut,.-by the case, it is
admitted that the Indians have not been removed by the Un!-

bECEM1BER TERM, 1858.

871

State of Yew 1oer v. Dibble.

ted States. The Tonawanda band is in peaceable possession
of its reserve, and has hitherto refused to surrender it. Unless,
therefore, these persons claiming under Ogden and Fellows
have by the treaty a right of entry into these lands, and, as -a
consequence, to forcibly oust the possessors or turn them out
16y action of ejectmeut, they cannot allege that this summary
removal by authority of the statute of N~ew York is in conflict
with the treaty, or any rights secured to the purchasers under
it. This proceeding does not affect their title. The question
of the validity of this treaty to bind the Tonawanda band is
oie to be decided, not by tile courts, but by the political power
which acted for and with the Indians. So far as the statute
of New York is concerned, it only requires that the Indians be
in possession; they are not bound to show that they are owners. They may invoke the aid of the statute against all white
intruders, so long as. they remain in the peaceable possession
of their lands.
The relators cannot claim the protection of the treaty, unless
they have a right of entry given them by it, before the Indians
are removed by the Government. This court have decided, in
the case of Fellows v. Blacksmith, (19 Howard, 366,) that this
treaty has made no provision as to the mode or manner in
which the removal of the Indians or the surrender of their reservations was to take place; that it can be carried into execution only by the authority or power of the Government which
was a party to it. The Indians are to be removed to their new
homes by their guardians, the United Stat6s, and cannot be
expelled by irregular force or violence of the-individuals who
claim to have purchased their lands, nor even by the.intervention of the courts of justice. Until such removal and surrender
of possession by the intervention of the Government of the Uvited States,'the In dians and their possessions are protected, bythe
laws of Ngew York, from the intrusion of their white neighbors.
We are of opinion, therefore, that this statute and the proceeding in this case are not in conflict with the treaty in question, or with any act of Congress, or with the Constitution of
the United States. The judgment of the Court of Appeals of
New York is therefore affirmed, with costs.

