897

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.
Combs y. Hodge d aL.

nad not-been a demand in reconvention. The consent in the
submission agreement implied a waiver of all pleadings of that
nature, and was a. release of all errors in the preliminary stages
of the suit. Donovan appeared in the District Court, and successfully resisted a motion, for judgment upon the award rendered. But the code does not require that a suit should be
successfully prosecuted to operate as an interruption of prescription. (Trop. dePres., see. 561; Dunn v. Kinney, 11 Rob.,
247; Baden v. Baden, 4 Ann., 468.")
We see no error in this statement of the law, and consequently affirm the-judgment with costs.

LESLIE

COMBS,

COMPLAINANT

AND APPELLANT,

0.

JOHN I.

HODGE, ADMINISTRATOR OF AXNDREW HODGE, DECEASED,

LIAm

WIr-

L. HODGE, AND JAMES Lov.

The pleadings in another suit, where the parties wpre different,' and the petition
and answer signed by counsel, cannot be resorted to for admissions of the respective parties.
Where certificates of the public debt of Texas were transferable only by the
owner, or his legal representative or attorney,'and there is no sufficient evidence of the existence of a power of attorney, a mere endorsement in blankby
the owner is not sufficient to justify a purchaser in drawing a conclusion that
I
the holder is entitled to sell or discount it.
The difference between this and negotiable instruments explained, and the authorities examined.
But as the circumstances attending the purchase are not well disclosed in the
record, the court will remand the case'to the Circuit Court, with directions to
allow the partie to amend ithe pleadings, and to take testimony, if they should
be so advised.

Tns was'an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Columbia.
The chronological history of the case was this:
In 1839, Combs was the proprietor of a large amount of
bonds issued by the State of Texas for various sums, vhich
certificates concluded in this way:
1"This certificate is transferable by the said Leslie Combs,

SUPREME COURT.
Comba v. Hodge et al.

or his legal, attorney or representative, on the books of the
stock commissioner only."
Two of these certificates-viz: No. .5219, for five thousand
dollars, and No. 5229, for one thousand dollars-were the subjects of the present suit. No notice will be taken in this report of the other bonds.
In 1840, Combs endorsed these certificates in blank, and
placed them in the hands of James Love, of Galveston,
Texas, for the purpose, as he alleged, of enabling Love to
receive payment, which was then expected, but which was not
made.
In 1846, one Josiah Lee brought a suit in the Commercial
Court of New Orleans against William L. Hodge, to recover
back money which he had paid to Hodge for the purchase of
Texas bonds. Hodge took defence upon two grounds, viz:
1. That it was supposed that there was a power to transfer in
the hands of a Mr. Love, of Galveston, which plaintiff was
bound to refer to. 2. That the blank endorsement of the
owner authorized plaintiff to write over it the necessary authority. The court, however, gave judgment for Lee against
Hodge.
By subsequent legislation of Congress and of Texas, the
bonds became payable at the Treasury of the United States,
where payment of them was claimed by J. Ledgear Hodge, a
resident of Pennsylvania, administrator with the will annexed of
Andrew lodge, deceased, in whose name the bonds had been
deposited at the Treasury. Whereupon Combs filed a bill
against J. L. Hodge, the administrator as aforesaid, William
L. Hodge, and James Love. An injunction was obtained to
stay the payment of the money until the determination of the
suit. The record of the suit in New Orleans and copies of letters"were attached to the bill as exhibits.
J. L. Hodge, the administrator, answered that he had no
personal knowledge of any of the matters stated in the bill.
William L. Hodge, amongst other matters, said that the
bonds had been transferred by Love to Andrew lodge fairly
and fo" their full value. The Circuit Court dismissed the bill,
and Combs appealed to this court.

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.
Combs v. Hodge et aL

It was argued by Mr. Bradley and 14r. Baxter for the appellant, and 31r. £Reverdy Johnson,jun., and Mr. 1?everdy Johnson,
sen., for the appellees.
The principal points made by the counsel for the appellant
were the following:
I. This is a proceeding in the nature of a bill of interpleader,
the Treasury of the United Stateg being the stakeholder.
(Clarke v. Clarke, 17 How., 321.)
In such a controversy, the parties stand on their respective
legal and equitable rights.
II. The appellant is the creditor of Texas, holding the legal
title to this scrip, which can pass only in the manner prescribed
by the law of Texas, and apparent on the face of the scrip.
(Menard v. Shaw, 5 Texas Rep., 334.)
The distinction between stocks passing by delivery or assignment, except in a particular mode, and the effict of their
assignment in any other mode, is well established. (Union
Bank v. Laird, 2 Wheat., 251; Zacharie and others v. Black
and others, 3 How., 513; Glynn v. Baker, 13 East., 509; Gongen v. Melville, 3 B. and C., 45; 10 E. 0. L., 16; Attorney
General v. Diamond, 1 Cromp. and Jar., 356, 70; Attorney
Geueral v. Hope, 1 Cromp., Mees., and Ros., 330; Jame v.
Bowens, 4 Mees. and Wels., 171 ; Miller v. Race, Smith L. 0..
250, and notes; Story Con. of L., sec. 383, and notes.)
IIT. The legal title being in Combs, the appellees have
shown no equity in themselves.
IV. Had Love authority to sell?
1. It was argued below that the power was conferred by the
endorsement in blank.
2. That such authority is proved by complainant's Exhibit
H., in which Love asserts he had a power of attorney.
As to the power implied from the endorsement.
1. There is an express limitation on the face of these bonds
upon their transferable character. It is not denied that, as
between the original parties, an endorsement in blapk, for a
fair consideration, followed by delivery, would vest in the purchaser an equitable title, which would, upon satisfactory proof,

SUPREME COURT.
Combs v. Hodge et aZ.

enable him to compel the endorser, in a court of equity, to do
everything necessary to effect a complete transfer of his interest. He could sue in his own name in equity alone. His title
would be equitable. And it may be conceded that he had an
assignable property in the bonds. But he could assign no
more than his equity. "The stream could not rise higher
than the fountain." The purchaser, therefore, could not, as
against the original party, stand in any better condition than
the first assignee.
These are familiar general principles, and will be found to
be fully sustained in the following cases: Turton v. Benson, 1
P. Wm.'s, 496; S. C., 2 Vern., 764 - Davies v. Austin, 1 Ves.,
jun., 247, and see the cases collected in the note, [Perkins's
Ed.,] 1 Bro. Ch., 434; Cator v. Burke, and 3 Bro. Ch., 179;
Davies v. Austin and others, and notes; Scott v. Shreeve, 12
Wheat., 605; and also 17 How., 615.
Undoubtedly, these general principles are subject to certain
exceptions; but there are none such in this case. It is not
pretended that the purchase was from Combs, and it is obvious
they understood his authority was requisite to complete the
title. They have failed to show any facts giving rise to an
equity other than the actual possession of the bond with
Combs's name endorsed upon it; and this alone is wholly insufficient, the object for which that was done having been satisfactorily shown.
2. The statement contained in the letter of Love is introduced by the complainant for the purpose of showing the pretences under which it is supposed the defendant sets up title,
and to negative such pretension.
The bill is sworn to, and emphatically states and reitefates
that complainafit never gave any authority, in any form, to
Love, to dispose of.the bonds.
And it is a violent invasion of the rules of evidence to say,
that when a complainant introduces, by way of exhibits, in his
bill, the unsworn statements of his defaulting agent, as to
transactions alleged to be fraudhlent, and sought to be set
aside, and under oath negatives them, he shall be held bound
by the very falsehoods he seeks to .overthrow, and they shall

DECEMBER TERM, -1858.

401

Combs v. Hodge et aZ.

be taken as proof that his sworn statements are false. The
essence of the bill is, that the agent had fraudulentlyappropriated the bonds to his own use, under the pretence of an
authority to sell; and it is to repudiate and discredit this pretended authority that he makes him and his imputed assignee
parties defendant, and seeks from them a discovery of the facts.
The answer of Love would have been evidence against the
complainant. Hodge, upon leave, could have examined him.
as a witness. Yet he does not answer, and is not examined.
The complainant was. entitled to his answer under oath; to
that extent, it wAs a bill for a discovery. He was duly summoned, but, being a non-resident, there was no means -ofcompelling his answer. His failure to answer.must, so far as he is
concerned, be taken as an admission of the allegations of the
bill. But if the statement of this letter was true, he could not,.
and for his own sake would not, have refused, at the instance
of an innocent purchaser from him, to have produced the
power, and supported it by proof. The pretence in the letter
is contradicted in terfns, and charged to have been a fraud.
*To say,,then, that it is evidence to prove the authority, is a
solecism, and a contradiction in terms of the plainest rules of
chancery pleading. If this is out of the case, there is no scintilla of proof to give countenance to the pretence of an, authority.
Finally, Combs having the legal title, the whole burden is
F
on the appellees to 6stablish, by satisfactory proof, an equity
which will draw to it the legal title. (Judson v. Corcoran, 17
How.5 612.)
I. That there is evidence that Love had authority from complainant to dispose of these certificates; and if so, there can
be no question as to the propriety of-the decree.
The jhound upon which the judgment rested in the case of
.&.Leeyv. Hodge," filed as Exhibit E to bill, was, that in that
case there was an agreement.by defendant for a special power
of transfer, which was not* obtained; though, had there been
no such special agreement, smy the- court, the blank endorsemert standing alone would have weight in the view there
VOL. XXI.
26
..

SUPREME COURT.
Combs v. Hodge et at.

urged, that such blank endorsement gave authority to a holder
to write over it the necessary power to transfer.
In the case at bar, the blank endorsement does stand alone,
(in the sense of being affected by any special agreement,) and
the argument based upon it is strengthened by the avowals of
the agent as to his power from Combs, appearing in complainant's Exhibit H to bill, which is also made evidence in the
cause by agreement.
II. That the possession of these certificates by Love, with
complainant's blank endorsement, constituted him, as to third
persons, an agent for the general negotiation of the bonds,
and complainant cannot limit his liability by special private
instructions to the agent, which are not divulged to a "bona
fide" purchaser for value.
The blank endorsement on the certificates can mean nothing
else than authority to Love to place over it the necessary form
of power of attorney. As the certificates call for a transfer in
person, or under such a power, the Government of Texas would
in no event have paid to Love the amount of the certificates,
except upon presentation by him of some such authority; and
as it is not pretended that, when these certificates were first
placed in Love's bands for the purpose indicated in the bill,
there was any separate power of attorney given, the endorsement in blank of complainant's name, where the parties were
many hundred miles apart, could import nothing else than
authority to fill over the name such power as would authorize
Love to surrender to the Government, upon receipt of the
sunis indicated; and that would be, equally as to third parties,
innocent "bonafide" purchasers, without notice of special instructions, power to receive purchase-money, and transfer to
them upon the books of Texas. (1 Parsons on Contracts, 39;
1 Peters, 290, Schinmelpennick v. Bayard; 3 Gill, 251, Chesley v. Taylor; 9 Howard, 580, Baldwin v. Ely; Story on
Agency, sec. 73, p. 3, see. 127; 19 Howard; 322, Commercial
Ins. Co. v. Union Ins. Co.; 22 Eng!. Law and Eq. R., 516,
Montague v. Perkins; 10 Cush. Mass. R., 373, Androscoggin
Bank v. Kimball; 22 Wendell, 348, Com. Bank of Buffalo v.
Kortright; 4 Dow and Ryls, 641, Gorgier v. Mieville-16 E. C.

DlECEMBER TERM, 1858.

403

Combs v. Hodge et.al.

L., 217; Douglass, 633, Peacoke r.-Rhodes; i Bos. and Pull,
648, Collins v. Martin.)
Il. If Love's possession of the certificates so endorsed be
not, as to third persons, authority to dispose generally of the
bonds, yet it was sufficient to have induced a person of ordinary precaution to infer such authority; and if, by the fraud
of Love, such party was misled into a "bonafide" purchase of
the bonds for full value, even a court of law, and a fortiori a
court of equity, will throw the loss. upon the principal who put
it into the agent's power to commit a fraud on- innocent parties. (Story on Agency, see. 127; 1 Term R., 12, Fitzherbert
v. Mather; 4 Barn. and Ald.; 1 Wookey v. Pole, 6 R. C. L.,
323; 22 Eug. Law and Eq., 516, Montague v.' Perkins.)
IV. Although the face of the .certificates calls for a transfer
on the books of Texas by Combs, or his attorney or representative, such clause relates, only to the legal title; and if equity
supports the appellee's claim, or that of :any purchaser under
similar circumstances, it would decree that Combs transfer the
naked legal title as required- by the certificate. (3 Boward,
483, Black v. Zacharie;. 22 Wendell, 348, Com. Bank of Buffalo v. Kortright.-See Chanellor's Opinion.)
V. But the act of Texas of 1846, (p. 220,) mcdifies.the stringency of the original certificates by authorizing the transfer
on the books of the State to be made, not only by the original
holder, his attorney or -representative,but also -by his assignee.--in
which position we stand in equity, and can therefore, as against
the complainant, in a court of equity, call for a transfer of the
bonds.
Mr. Justice 'CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff filed his bill to establish his claim to two certificates for a portion of the public 'debt of the Republic of
Texas, which had been issued to him in the year 1839, and
which were transferable by him, or his attorney, or his representative, only, on the books of the stock commissioner of that
State. He avers that these certificates with others-were endorsed in blank by him, and sent to the defendant, Love, in
Texas, during the year 1840, with authority to receive an an-

SUPREME COURT.
Combs v. Hodge et al.

ticipated partial payment, and to obtain other certificates of
the same description for the residue. That he did not give to
his agent any authority to sell them, or to dispose of them for
his own use, and has done no act to defeat his own legal title
To them. That Love did not collect any part of the debt, and
has failed to return the two certificates in question. That for
fifteen years he has been unable to discover who was in possession of them, and has but recently ascertained that they
were held by one of the defendants under a claim of title from
Love.
He attached to his bill a number of letters of Love, containing admissions of his receipt of the certificates, and of his
agency for -the plaintiff; and subsequently to the conversion
by him of these, he wrote to the plaintiff in extenuation of his
( nduct, affirming that he had a power of attorney and letters
from the plaintiff authorizing him to sell. That he would endeavor to replace the stock, or would give other stock of the
same description, and insisted that the liberty he had taken
was excusable.
The defendant (Hodge) answered to the bill that these certificates were claimed as the property of the decedent, Andrew
Hodge. That he purchased them from Love fairly, and for
their full value, and with a firm conviction that be was authorized by a power of attorney, and the blank endorsement of
the plaintiff, to dispose of them. The cause was heard upon
the pleadings and a decree pro confesso against Love.
The record in the District Court at New Orleans in the suit
between Love and Hodge, appended to the bill, does not contain evidence applicable to this cause. The parties to that
suit were different, and the petition and answer are signed by
counsel, and not by the parties, and cannot be resorted to for
admissions
of the respective parties. (Boileau v. Ruttlin, 2 Ex.,
665.) There
is no evidence of the existence of a power of attorney from the plaintiff to Love, except that contained in the
letter of Love before referred to. If that statement is at all
admissible, .it is insufficient to establish the fact. The letter
was written in-1844, after Love had violated his obligation as
a faithful agent, and in reply to reproaches of the plaintiff. In

DFOEMBER TERM, 1858. '
Combs v. -Rodge d A

that letter he promises to restore to the plaintiff these or other
certificates. There is no evidence of any fulfilment of this
promise. He has failed to produce a power of attorney, or any
letters which authorize his sale to his co-dekendant. The witnesses ofthe contract between him and the decedent (Andrew
Hodge) have not been examined. These circum~tafices raise
a strong presumption against the verity of his statemeiit, and
deprive his letter of ^any probative force. The title of the de-.
fendant therefore depends upon the effectto be given to the
endorsement of the certifi~ates in blank by the plaintiff, and
their deposit with Love. The question is, was. he invested
with such a title that a bona fide purchaser, having" no notice
of its. infirmity, will be protected against a latent defect? The
law merchant accords such protection to a holder of a bill of
exchange taken in the course of business for value, and with-,
out notice; and legislation in Great Britain and some of the
States of the Union has extended to the same class of persons
a similar protection in other contracts.
But this concession is made for the security and convenience,
if not to the necessities and wants, of commerce, and is not to be
extended beyond them. It is a departure from the fundamental principle of property, which secures the title of the original
owner against a wrongful disposition by another person, and
which does not permit one to transfer a better title than he has.
The party who claims the benefit of the exception to this principle must come within all the conditions on which it depenids.
In the case of bills of exchange that have originated in fraud
or illegality, the holder is bound to establi'h that he is not an
accessory to the illegal or fraudulent design, but a holder fto
value. If the bill is taken out of the courge of trade as overdue, or with notice, the rights of the holder are subjected to
the operation of the -general rule. In Ashurst v. The Official
Manager of the Bank of Australia, 37 L. and Eq. R., 195, Justice Erle says: "It seems to me extremely.important to draw
the line clearly between negotiable instruments, properly so
called, and ordinary chattels, which are transferable ;by delivery, though the transferrer can only pass such title as he had.
&s to negotiable instruments, during their. currency, delivery

SUPREME COURT.
Combs v. Hodge et al.

to a bona fide holder for value gives a title, even though the
transferrer should have acquired the instrument by theft; but
after maturity the instrument becomes in effect a chattel only
in the sense I have mentioned." When the instrument is one
which by law is not negotiable, or when the negotiability has
been restricted by the parties, the rule of the law merchant
has no application. The loss of the instrument with the name
of the payee upon it, or its transfer by a faithless agent, does
not impair the title of the owner. Nor can a purchaser safely
draw any conclusion from the existence of an endorsement on
such a paper that the holder is entitled to sell or to discount it.
•(Birdeback v. Wilkins, 10 Harris, 26; Ames v. Drew, 11
Foster, 475; Symonds v. Atkinson, 37 L. and Eq., 585; 25 L.
and Eq., 318.) Nor can the holder write an- assignment or
guarantee not authorized by the endorser. (4 Duer, 45; 25 L.
and Eq., 19; 6 Harris, 434.) This doctrine has been applied
to determine conflicting claims to public securities which were
not negotiable on their face, though the subject of frequent
transfers.
The suit of Toukin v. Fuller (3 Doug., 300) was for four
victualling bills drawn by commissioners of the victualling office on their treasurer, in favor of their creditor. - These were
sent to an agent with a power of attorney, "to receive money
and give receipts-and discharges," and who pledged them for
an advance of .money. Lord Mansfield- said the only question is, who has the right of property in this bill? It must be
the plaintiff's, unless he has done something to entitle another.
It is deposited with the defendant by one who had it-under a
limited power of attorney. If the plaintiff had ever consented
to the disposal of the bill, he would not be allowed to object,
nor would he if the m6ney had ever come to his use. But
here there is no suc'h pretence.
Glynn v. Baker.(13 East., 509) was a suit for bonds of- the
East India Company, payable to their treasurer, and sold with
his endorsement. Le Blanc, Justice, said:
"Here are persons intrusted with the securities of A and B,
who part with the securities of A, and, when called on for
them, give the securities. of B. That difficulty can only be

DECEMBER TEIRM, 1858.
Comb. v. Hodge d aZ.

met by assimilating such securities to cash, which, whether it
has an ear-mark set upon it or not, if passed by the person intrusted with it to a bonafide holder for valuable consideration,
without notice, cannot be rec vered by the rightful owner;
but how does the similitude hold?"
And Lord Ellenborough said, "any individual might as well
make his bond negotiable."
The case of Dunn v. Commercial Bank of Buffalo (11 Barb.,
580) originated in the refusal of that bank to allow a transfer
of stock on the books of the bank, which was transferable by
the holder of the certificate or his representative.
The plaintiff had the certificate and a blank assignment, and
a blank power of attorney, and claimed to make the transfer.
The court denied that certificates of stock in reference to ne.
gotiability are placed on the same ground as bills of exchange,
and declare that it is incumbent on a party claiming under
such a transfer to prove the contract or consideration. In
Menard v. Shaw, comptroller, (5 Texas R., 884,) the Supreme
Court of that State decide that the agency of the payee named
in certificates like the present is indispensable to a legal transfer on the books of the State, and that a forced sale was there.
fore inoperative. The decision of Baldwin v. Ely (9 E=ow.,
273) does not sanction the claim of the defendants.
The certificates which were the subject of controversy were
issued, under an act of Congress, to a person or his assigns.
The ordinary form of assignment was a blank endorsement,
and this had been recognised as sufficient at the Treasury of the
United States, and in the ordinary-traffic in the community.
The defendant proved that he had paid value for them. In
the cases cited from Douglas and East, the judges stated that
the existence of similar facts might give another aspect to the
claims of the defendants in these cases. In the case before us,
the certificates were transferable, in terms only, in a single
mode.
There was no evidence that a transfer in any other form
than that prescribed had ever been recognised.
We have considered this cause upon the assumption that the
defendant was a holder for value.

SUPREME COURT.
Uited Sta v. Nyie.

There is no statement in the answer of the consideration
paid to Love for these certificates, nor of the time, place, and
circumstances, of the contract between him and the defendant's testator. It appears that the plaintiff did not direct their
sale or transfer, and that they were not disposed of on his account; and if there had been a power of attorney containing
an authority to sell, the circumstances would have imposed
upon the defendant the necessity of showing there was no collusion with Love. Upon the case as presented the court is
constrained to reverse the decree of the Circuit Court, dismiss
ing the plaintiff's bill. But the case is presented in an unsatisfactory manner.
The transaction between Love and the decedent (Hodge) has
not been exhibited to the cqurt, although parties fully cognizant of it are before the court.
We have concluded to remand the cause to the Circuit Court,
with directions to allow the parties to amend the pleadings,
and to take testimony, if they should be so advised.

THE 'UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, V. MICHAEL C.

NYE.

Where there was a petition for land in California, addressed to Micheltorena, the
Governor, which was referred by him to his Secretary, Jimeno, and by him to
Sutter, and there is no evidence that these papers, with Sutter's certificate,
were ever returned to the Governor, or sanctioned by the authorities of the
State subsequently, the evidence is not sufficient ft 9upport the claim, although
sanctioned by what is called Sutter's general title.
Sutter's geneal title was this:
In December, 1844, Micheltorena issued a general grant to all persons who had
made applications upon which a favorable report had been made by Sutter, and
directed Sutter to give them a copy of-this ordei, to serve instead of a formal

tit~e.
But this y-wer thus conferred upon Sutter was abrogated by the abdication of
the Goveri,., and, in thig case, the power was not executed for more than a
year after such abdication. The claim is therefore invalid.

THIS was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the northern district of California.

