SUPREME COURT.
Riakmond v. City of Af"lwaukw.

The judgments in favor of the bank, the levy upon the property of the appellee, the sale and satisfaction to the-full amount
of the penalty, are facts all established of record. Whatever
sacrifice of the property"of the appellee by these tindoubted
proceedings may have been-produced, is his loss, and his only,
and canin no wise affect the validity of his release by the fulfilment of his obligation..
The decree of the Circuit Court is therefore affirmed, with
costs.
DEAN RICHmOND, APPELLANT, V. THE CITY oF MILwAUKIE A
FERDINAND KUEHN.
There.being no special provision in the act of Congress regulating appeals from
the District Court of the United States in Wisconsin, they are governed by the
general law of 1803.
By that act, no appeal will lie unless the sum or value m controversy exceeds two
thousand dollars.

THIS was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the district of Wisconsin.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr Brown for the appellant, upon which
side there was also a brief by Brown and Ogden, and by Mr
Doolittle for the appellee.
As the case went off upon a question of jurisdiction, the
arguments and points of the counsel upon its merits are omitted.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This s an appeal from the District Court of the United States
for the district of Wisconsin, exercising the powers of a Circuit Court.
It appears that a bill was filed in that court bythe appellant,
praying an injunction to prohibit the conveyance of certain
lots in the city of Milwaukie, which. had been sold for the
by the corporation.
payment of city taxes assessed upon it,

DEGEMBER TERM, 1858.

81

Ricmond v. City of iliwaukm

The bill states that the city of Milwaukie is a corporation,
chartered by the State; that, under its charter and the Constitution and laws of the State, it is authorized to assess certain
taxes for corporate purposes upon the lots and property in the
city, and, if the taxes are not paid-according to law, *tosell the
lot upon which it is charged. The bill further sets forth, that
the appellant was the owner of sundry lots in the city. which
are particularly described by their respective numbers, and
also the assessment imposed upon them, respectiely, the manner and purposes for which it was imposed, and the proceedings of the corporate authorities under this assessment, and the
sale of the lots to pay the amount claimed tb be due.
And the bill then charges that the corporation exceeded its
powers in imposing these taxes, and, eveu'if lawfully imposed,
that the proceedings afterwards had were not conformable to
the law of the State, which points out particularly the steps to
be taken before the lot assessed can be sold. The bill charges,
that upon the grounds above stated, the sale of his lots was illegal and invalid, and prays an injunction to prevent a conveyance to the purchaser; as such a conveyance would be a cloud
upon his title.
The bill alleges that the lots so sold are worth five hundred dollars, and that the taxes imposed exceed their value as adsessed
on the books of the corporation more than twolundred per cent.
The corporation and their treasurer-answered, and admitted
the sale of the lots, and aver that the city had a lawful uight to
impose the tax ; that their proceedings to recover it were fully
auithorized by law, and that 'the sales were valid, and will entitle the purchasers to a conveyance unless the appellant ahall
within three years redeem them, m the manner and upon the
terms provided f9r by the law of the State where lands or lots
have been sold.for the non-payment of taxes.
Testimony was-taken on both sides, which is set out in the
transcript. But in the view which the court .take of the case
it is unnecessary to state it particularly, or to set out at large
the various points in controversy between the parties upon the
bill and answer, because, upon the appellant's own showing,
this court have no junsdietlon.
6
VOL. XXIL

SUPREME COURT.
Rie v. Minnesota and N_ar1weskn Rairoad Company.

Appeals to this court from the Circuit Courts of the United
States, and from District Courts exercising the jurisdiction of
Circuit Courts, are regulated by the art of 1808, ch. 40, where
not otherwise specially pfovided for by act of Congress. There
is no special provision in the act establishing the District Court
in Wisconsin which regulates appeals to this court, and consequentlj-hey are governed by the general law above referred
tp, and by that law no appeal will lie, unless the sum or value
in controversy exceeds $2,000, and that fact must be shown to
the court in order to give jurisdiction in the appeal.
Now, the matter in dispute in this case is the title to the lots
which have been sold by the municipal authorities for the nonpayment of the taxes. The taxes assessed were charged upon
the respective lots, and created no personal responsibility upon
the owner, the lots alone being liable for the payment. And
the only evidence or averment of their value is the statement
of the complainant in his bill that they were worth more than
five hundred dollars, and his complaint that more than two
hundred per cent. upon their value as mentioned in the books
of the corporation was charged upon them by the assessment,
and the proceedings of the city authorities under it. There is
nothing in the allegations of the parties or in the evidence to
show that the value of the lots in question exceeded two thousand dollars, nor anything from which it can be inferred.
The appeal must therefore be dismissed for want of jurisdiction in this court.

EDMUND RiCE, PLAINTIFF 'IN ERROR, V. THE MINNESOTA AND
NORTHWESTERN RAILROAD COMPANY.
Where a cxmmon-law case was dismissed at the last term for want of junsdiction, (the record showing that no final judgment was given in the court below,)
an affidavit setting forth that the final judgpnent was accidentally omitted from
the record, and the production of a correct record, are not sufficient to sustain
a motion to annul the order of dismissal, and remisate the case upon the
docket.
After the judgment of this court was passed upon the case, and the term was
closed, the function of the writ of error was over, and it cannot now be revived.
The diitinction pointed out between a common-law case and a case in admiralty.

