DECEMBER. TERM, 1858.

331

Thmnas v. Lawson et al.

no presumption can arise in favor of an abandonment of the
right to the inventor to the public, though an acquiescence on
his part will lay the foundation for such a presumption."
The real-interest of an inventor with respect to an assertion
or surrender of his rights under the Constitution and laws of
the United States, whether. it be sought in his declarations or
acts, -or in forbearance or neglect to speak or act, is an inquiry
or conclusion offact, and peculiarly within the-province of the
iury, guided by legal evidence submitted to them at the trial.
Recurring now to the instruction from the judge at circuit
in this case, we con'sider that instruction to be in strict conformity with the principles hereinbefore propounded, and with
the doctrines of this court, as declared in the cases of Pennock
v. Dialogue and Shaw v. Cooper. That instruction diminishes
or excludes no proper ground upon.which the conduct and intent of the plaintiff below, as evinced either by declarations or
acts, or by omission to speak or act, and on which also the
justice and integrity of the conduct of the defendants were to
be examined and determined. -It submitted the conduct and
intentions of both plaintiff and defendants to the jury, as questions of fact to be decided by thbm, guided simply by such
rules of law as. had been settled with reference to issues like
the one before them; and upon those questions of fact the jury
have responded in favor of the plaintiff below, the defendant
in error. We think that the rejection by the court of the
prayers offered by the defendants at the trial was warranted
by the character of those prayers, as having a tendency to narrow the inquiry by the jury to an imperfect and partial view
of the case, and to divert their minds from a full comprehension of the merits of the controversy. The decision of the
Circuit Court is affirmed, therefore, with costs.
MARY

Azx THomAs, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. ELIZA LAWSON

AND OTHERS, HEIRS -AT LAW OF JAmES LAwsoN, DECEASED, BY
GEORGE A. GALLAGHER, THEIR GUARDIAN AD LITEM.
Where a deed was objected to in the Circuit Court on the ground of fraud, but
no specific grounds of objection were made, this court cannot inquire into the
correctness or incorrectness of the objection.

SUPREME COURT.
Thomas v. Lawson d al.
By the laws of Arkansas, and decisions of its courts, a sheriff's deed of land sold
-for the non-payment of taxes is made evidence of the regularity and legality
of the sale, and the burden of proof of irregularity is cast upon the assailant

of the tax title.
The cases upon this point examined.
The'law also allows the purchaser of a tax title to file a petition on the chancery
side of the State court, whose judgmient, or decree, confirming the sale, shall
operate as a bar against all persons who.may claim the land in consequence
of informality or illegality in the proceedings which led to the sale.
A record of such a decree, when produced in the Circuit Court, was conclusive
evidence of the title of th purchaser at the sheriff's sale.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit Court of the United States for the eastern district of Arkansas.
The facts of the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was submitted on printed arguments by Mr. Fowler for
the plaintiff in error, and Mr. Watkins for the defendant.
The counsel for the plaintiff in error laid down the following
propositions:
1. The general objection, applicable to all collectors' deeds,
upon general principles, in the absence of any statute making
them per se evidence of title, or evidence at all, unless all the
materialprevious steps and acts required by the laws providing
for the assessment and collection of taxes, and sale of lands
for the non-payment thereof, &c., make it utterly inadmissible.
Upon the different branches of this proposition, viz: that the
land must be shown to have been listed or assessed and taxed,
and advertised and sold according to.law, and that the collector had authority to sell, the counsel cited forty-two authorities, amongst which were 11 Howard, 425; 18 Howard, 142;
16 Howard, 618.
The act of March 5, 1838, made such deeds evidence, but
was restricted to sales made under that act, whereas this deed
purports to have been made under a sale in 1824.
2. Said deed ought to have been rejected, because, by its
details, the said tract of land appears to have been assessed,
taxed, and sold, for the year 1824, when the tract of land was

DECEMBER TERM,. 1858.

833

Thomas v. Lawson dt aL

not taxable for tlat year; hence the'whole proceeding was hlie.
gal and void.
With respect to the decree of the court, confirming the sale,
the counsel contended that it was a nullity on account of irregularity in its proceedings.
The ,counsel for the defendant in erro contended for the
validity of the deed, both before and after the passage of the
act of 1838, the land being held by the original purchaser under
a certificate of purchase, and 'referred to the case of Pillow v.
Roberts, 13 Howard, 476, and 15 Arkansas Rep., 339.; that
the land was subject to taxation in 1824; that the act of limitation applied, which commenced to run from the date of the
sale, and not from the date of the execution of the collector's
deed; and that the decree of confirmation conclusively settled
the case.
Mr. Justice DANIEL delivered the, opinion of the court.
This was an action of ejectment, instituted by the plaintiff,
a citizen of Indiana,*and as sole heiress of John Crow, deceased,
against James Lawson, a citizen of the State of Arkansas; for
the recovery of a tract of land situated in the State last men.
tioned, described in the declaration, and averred to be of greater
value than two thousand dollars. Pending the proceedings in
the Circuit Court, Lawson, the original defendant, having died,
the cause was revived against the defendants upon the record
as his heirs, and upon a trial of the cause, on the 16th day -of
April, 1856,.the jury rendered a verdict for the plaintiff, and
on that verdict the court gave a judgment in favor of the plainti:f with costs of suit. At a subsequent day of the term, the
court, on motion of the defendants, awarded a new trial in
their behalf; and on the 22d day of April, 1857, this cause
being again heard, a verdict was rendered in favor of the defendants below, the defendants in error, and upon this verdict
the court pronounced judgment in behalf of tle defendants,
inclusive of all the-costs of suit.
In-this -action the defendant pleaded six several pleas! first,
the general issue not guilty, on which there was a joinder; and
five other pleas, all of whicli were either stricken out or over-

SUPREME COURT.
Thomas v. Lawsan e 0.

ruled upon demurrer except the fifth, to the .following effect:
that the defendant was a purchaser of the tract of land in the
declaration, mentioned, at a sale made by the sheriff"and collector of the revenue of the county in which the said land was
and is situated, for the non-payment of the taxes assessed and
due thereon, and that he has held the peaceable, adverse, and
uninterrupted'possession of the said land under and by virtue
of his said purchase for more than five years next before the
commencement of this suit. On this fifth plea, also, issue was
joined.
Upon .the trial in the court below, the .plaintiff gave in evidence a patent from the United States, bearing date on the 1st
day of February, 1821, to the plaintiff and others, heirs of John
Crow, deceased, for the land in contest, which patent was read
without objection, the titles of both plaintiff and defendants
being deducible from that act of the Government. The plaintiff further proved that she was the only surviving child and
the sole heir of John Crow, and was the widow of James
Thomas, who died in the year 1840; and that from the year
1839 she had resided in the State of Indiana, and was a citizen
of that State. The -plaintiff further proved the possession of
Lawson, the ancestor of the defendants, of the land at the time
of the institution of this suit, and his refusal to surrender possession to the plaintiff. And here the plaintiff rested her case
upon the evidence.
The defendants, in support of their title and right of possession, offered in evidence a deed, bearing date on the 2d day
of November, 1846, from W. B. Borden, at that date sheriff,
and as such ex officio assessor and collector of the taxes for tho
county of Pulaski, in which county the lands in contest are situated, conveying those lands to the ancestor of the defendants.
In this deed it is recited, that in the year 1824, in conformity with the laws in force in the then Territory of Arkansas, the
lands in contest, with several other parts of sections, all situat6d in the county of Pulaski, were by the sheriff, as ex efficio
assessor and collector for the county, assessed for the taxes
payable thereon 'for that year. That in conformity with the
law, and within the time thereby prescribed, the sheri1 as ex

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

•385

TDkmas v. Lawson et aZ.

officio assessor and collectoK, filed in the office of clerk of the
County Court'a list of lands and town lots owned and assessed
to persons then residents of said county, in which list the lands
in the said deed were embraced; that a copy of the list so
made ana filed was by the said officer put up at the door of
the court-house of said county, and published in the Arkansas
State Gazette, a newspaper printed in the Territory, for four
weeks successively Iefore the day of sale, as prescribed by law..
That the sheriff as ex officio assessor and collector, in like conformity with law, on the 1st day of November, 1824, exposed
and offered for sale, at the court-house of the said county, at
public auction, the several parcels or parts of sections of land
above mentioned, for the payment of the taxes, and the penalty payable upon the amount of those taxes. That Thomas
lNewton became the purchaser of the several parcels of land,
and transferred his certificate of his purchase of those lands to
James Lawson. - That the sheriff, as ex offico assessor and collector, made out and delivered to the purchaser a certificate
of purchase containing the requisite description of the'taxes
and penalty on the lands listed, for taxation, and that the
amount was paid by Nfewton, the purchaser. That one year.
having elapsed since the sale by the sheriff, and that N ewton,
by James Lawson, having presented to Borden, the sheriff and
ex oftio assessor and collector, the certificate of purchase, and
requested a deed to Lawson from the sheriff, the deed from
Borden, as sheriff, &c., was made to Lawson.
The defendants next offered in evidence, under the certificate of the clerk of the Circuit Court, of Pulaski county, a
copy from the records of that court of the acknowledgment iri
open court, on the 13th of July, 1849, by Borden, as late.
sheriff and- collector of Pulaski county, of the deed executed
by him to Lawson for the several parcels ofland therein described, including the land in controversy, as having been sold'
by the predecessor of said Borden as sheriff and collector,
under and by virtue of a levy and distress made upon such
'tracts of land to secure the payment of the State and county
taxes, and the penalty and costs and charges due for the years
1824 and 1825.

.336

SUPREME COURT.
Thomas v. Lawson dt al.

The defendants also proved that Thomas Newton, by a deed
bearing date on the 21st of May, 1816, assigned and conveyed
to James Lawson, in his lifetime, all the right, title, interest,
and claim, in and to the lands purchased by Newton of the
sheriff in the year 1824, and embraced in -thedeed from Borden, sheriff, &c., to Lawson.
The defendants then offered the record, duly certified, of the
proceedings on the chancery side of the Circuit -Court of the
county of Pulaski, on the 20th.day of February, 1850, upon a
petition in the name of James Lawson in his lifetime, setting
forth the several facts and transactions recited in the deed
from Borden to Lawson, and also the execution and recording
of that deed; and further setting forth that he, Lawson, after
the tinie allowed by law for the redemption of said lands, and
more than six months before the commencement of the then
present term of this court, caused a notice stating the authority under which said sheriff's sales took place, and also containing the same description of the lands purchased as that
given in said sheriff's deed, and declaring the price at which
said tracts were respectively bargained, the nature of the title
by which the same are held, and calling on all persons who
could set up any right to any part of said lands, in consequence of any irregularity or illegality connected with said
sales, to show cause dt .the first term of the Circuit Court of
said county, six months after the publication of said notice,
being the present term of the court, why the respective sales
so made should not be confirmed, pursuant to a petition to be
filed in this court for that purpose, to be inserted and published in the Arkansas State Democrat, a newspaper published in
-Little Rock, for six weeks in succession, the last insertion to
be more than six months before the commencement of the
ptesent term of this court, as by affidavit of the publisher, setting forth a copy of such notice, with the date of the first pub:
lication thereof, and the number of insertions sworn to and
subscribed before a justice of the peace of said county, and
properly authenticated and filed with said petition, fully appears to the court, and .concluding with the decree of that
court in the following words:

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

3W

Tkomas v. lawson dt d.

"Whereupon all and singular the allegations made in said
petition being by the production of said deeds and due proofs
of the publication of said notice, proven and established to the
satisfaction of the court here, and no cause having been shown
against thfe prayer of said petition by any person whomsoever,
but the said application being and remaining wholly undefended-:"It is therefore considered and adjudged and decreed bythe court here, that said sheriTfs sales, and each of theh, be,
and the same are hereby, in all things confirmed, according to
the statute in such case made and provided; and furthier, thai
this decree shall operate as a complete bar against any and
all persons hereafter claiming said lands, or any part thereof,
in consequence of any informality or.illegality in any of the
proceedings aforesaid, and that the title of each-of said tracts
of laud be decreed and considered as hereby confirmed and completed in said: James Lawson and his heirs and assigns forever;
saving, however, to infants, persons of unsound mind, imprisoned, beyond the seas, or out of the jurisdiction of the United
States, the right to appear and contest the title to said lands,
within one year after their disabilities may be'removed. And
it is ordered that the petitioner pay the costs thereof."
To the admission of this record, the plaintiff in the Circuit
Court objected, but the court permitted it io be read 'in evidence. The deed from Borden, sheriff, to -Lawson; of the 2d
of November, 1846, was also objected to by the same party, but
was allowed to be given in evidence to the jury.
. Several prayers for instruction were presented, both
by the
plaintiff and-the defendants, and decisions thereon were made
.bythe court. 'We shll consider the following only, as corn'prising the real merits of this controversy:
The objections urged against the admission of the deed from
the sheriff to Lawson were1st. That the deed'.an d " the certificate of- its admission*to'
record bore! upon their face unmistakable evidence of fraud.
What those clear nark-s of fraud upon the face of those documents were, is not:stated With sufficient partieilarity, in: order
to a correct comprehension of their character. The court to
VOL. -XXi.

.22

358

SUPREME COURT.
Thomas v. Lawson et al.

whom this objection was presented must have decided upon an
inspection of the papers, (probably correctly;) but whether
correctly or otherwise, this court cannot now inquire, in compliance with assertions altogether vague, and pointing to no
specific vice in any one of those papers. This first objection,
therefore, to the admissibility of the deed is of no force.
But the deed from Borden was further objected to, because,
as it was allegedSecondly. That there was no valid proof of the executiou
of such paper as a deed.
Thirdly. There was no proof of the authority of the said
William B. Borden to execute such deed, or that he was, at
the date of its execution or acknowledgment, collector of taxes
in and for said county of Pulaski.
Fourthly. It was not accompanied by proof that the said
tract of land in controversy was either assessed, or taxed, or
advertised, or legally sold, in the year 1824, for taxes, or that
the said Henry Armstrong, as such alleged sheriff, assessor,
and collector, in the year 1824, had any authority to assess said
tract of land for taxation, or to sell it for the non-payment of
such taxes.
Fifthly. That such paper, purporting to be such deed, was
not admissible in evid'ence until it should be first proved that
all the material steps required by law, preparatory to and in
the assessment and taxation of said tract of land, and in the
advertisement and sale thereof in the year 1824, and all previous steps required by law prior to the execution of such deed,
had been complied with, either by record evidence or by evidence in pais.
These four objections are met and overcome, first, by the
language of the statutes of Arkansas; and secondly, by the
interpretation given of those statutes by the Supreme Court
of that State. By the law of Arkansas regulating conveyances,
(vide Digest of the Laws of 1848, by English and Hefhpstead,
p. 268, s-ec. 26,) it is declared-that "1every deed or instrumient
of writing conveying or affecting real estate, which shall be
acknowledged or proved and certified as prescribed by that
act, may, together with the certificate of acknowledgment, be

DECEM1BER TERM, 1858.

339

Thomas v. Lawson et al.

recorded by the recorder of the county where the land to be
conveyed or affected thereby shall be situate; and when so
recorded, may be read in evidence in any court in this State
without further proof of execution." Again, in the same Digest, (pp" 888, 889, sec. 112, title REVENUE,) it is declared, with
respect to sales and conveyances made by the sheriff and collector for the non-payment of taxes, that "the deed so made
by the collector shall be acknowledged and recorded as other
conveyances of lands, and shall vest in the grantee, his heirs
or assigns, a good and valid title, both in law and equity; and
'shall be received in evidence in all courts of this State as a
good and valid title in such grantee, his heirs or assigns, and
shall be evidence of the reqularity and. legality of the sale of such
lands." Again, (p. 889, see. 1-14,) it is provided, "that if any
collector shall die or be removed from office, or his term of
service expire, after selling, any land for taxes, and before
making and executing a deed for the same, the collector then
in office shall make and execute a deed to the purchaser of
such lands, in the same manner, and with the like effect, as
the officer making such sale would have done."
By another provision of the statute of Arkansas, a lille power
to that previously mentioned as vested in the sheriff, with respect to delinquent lands, is conferred upon the auditor of
public accounts, and, in the exercise of that power by the latter
officer, the provisions 6f the statute, both as to the acts to be
performed, and the consequences to ensue from those acts,
are substantially and almost literally identical with those relating to the proceedings by the sheriff.
Thus, (Dig., p. 893, sec. 141,) it is enacted that "the auditor
shall execute, under his hand and the segl-of his office, and
deliver to each person purchasing lands or lots at such sale, a
deed or cnveyance, in which he shall-describe the lands or lots
sold, and the consideration for whih the same were sold, and
shall convey to the purchaser all the right, title, interest, and
claim, of the State thereto; " and by section 142, "the deed so
made shall vest in the grantee, his heirs or assigns, a good and
valid title; both .in law and equity, and shall be received in all,
the courts of this State as evidence of a good and valid title 'in

840

SUPREME COURT.
Thwmas v. Lawson et al.

such grantee, his heirs or assigns, and shall be evidence that all
things required by law to be done to make a good and valid sale were
done, both by the collector and auditor."
In the interpretation of this provision in par! materia, the
Supreme Court of Arkansas, in the case of Merrick and Fenno
v. Hutt, (15 Arkansas Reports, p. 338,) say: "A more comprehensive provision could hardly be found, and it might seem,
at first view, to make the tax title derived from the auditor
valia against all objections. But that was not the design. The
evil to be remedied was, that the entire burden of proof was
cast on the purchaser, to show that every requisite of the law
had beeui complied with, and the deed of the officer was not
even primafacie evidence of the facts therein stated. The general and prevailing principle was, that to divest the owner of
land by a sale for taxes, every preliminary step must be shown
to be in conformity with the statute; that it was a naked
power, not coupled with an interest, and every prerequisite to
the exercise of that power must precede it, and that the deed
was not primafacie evidence that these prerequisites had been
observed. The intention. and scope of the statute were to change
this rule so far as to cast the onus probandi on the assailant of
the tax title, by making the deed evidence of the title of the
purchaser, subject to be overthrown by proof of non-compliance with the substantial requisites of thelaw. Proof, then,
that any of the substantial requisites of the law had been disregarded, or that the taxes have been paid, no matter by whom,
would be sufficient to destroy the tax title, whether emanating
from the auditor or the collector. The deed-of the auditor is not
required to contain recitals. All that is necessary is to describe
the property sold, and the consideration, and to convey to the
purchaser all the right, title, interest, and estate, of the former
owner, as well as all the right, title, interest, and claim, of the
State, to the land."
The same exposition of the statutes of Arkansas, and of the
policy and necessity in which those statutes have bad their
origin, is given in the case of Pillow v. Roberts in this court,
reported in the 13th of How., 472. The deed, then, from the
sheriff and Collector Borden to 14awson, was -clearly prima facie

DECEMBIR TERM, 1858.4

"841

Thoma v. Lawson dt aL

evidence of the assessment., taxation, and forfeiture of the land;
of the regularity of every proceeding previously to the sale of
the land forfeited; of the competency of the officer making the
sale and conveyance; of the legal validity of the sale; and cast
upon the assailant of any of thes&prerequisitss the burden .of
showing the absence or defectiveness of any of them. And.
without such a showing, that which was prionafacieproof will.
be taken as conclusive.
But every question with respect to the assessment of the
lands in controversy, or the non-payment of the taxefs,'or the
regularity of the proceedings of the sheriff and 'collector, inclusive of the execution and recording of the deed from that Zfficer, seems to have been concluded by the petition of the purchaser on the chancery side of; the Circuit Court of Pulaski'
county, and the decree of confirmation pronounced upon that
petition as herein already mentioned.
The provisions of the law by which this petition by the purchaser from the sheriff or auditor of lands sold for the nonpayment of taxes, and by which the proceedings upon such a
petition, and the effect of a decree of confirmation pronounced.
tfhereupon, are contained in the Digest of thb Laws, pp. 966i
967, under the head of Tax Titles, sections from one to six,
inclusive. By the section last mentioned (6th) it is declared,,
that the judgment or decree confirming said sale shall operate
as a complete bar against any and all-persons who may there.
after claim said land in consequence of informality or illegality
in the proceedings, and the title to said land shall be considered as confirmed and complete in the purchaser thereof, his
heirs and assigns, forever. The decree of the Circuit Court of
the county of Pulaski, before referred to, expressly sets forth
a compliance with every requisite prescribed in the aforegoing
six sections of the statute, including the notice by publication
calling on all persons to show any objection to the purchase
from the officer, in consequence of informality, irregularity, or
illegality connected with the sale of the lands; the failure of
any contestant to appear in obedience to such notice, and the
expiration of the time limited in the saving reserved in behalf
of those of whem exception is made in the statute.

SUPREME COURT.
Thomas v. Lawson et al.

'Upon an inspection of the proceedings in the court of Pulaski, the court below was of the opinion that it constituted a
valid title in the defendant against the whole world, and
charged the jury that "it divested the title of the plaintiff, and
that since the rendition of said decree she had no title to the
said tract of land, unless she has, since the date of the said
decree, obtained title thereto from or under the said James
Lawson, or unless such decree was obtained by fraud." ;
Of the effect of a decree of confirmation like the one in this
case there exists no doubt under the construction of the statutes of Arkansas by the Supreme Court of that State, as declared in the case of Evans &Black v. Percifull, (5th Arkansas
Rep., 425.) The court in that case held the decree to be conclusive, although they thought it erroneous; yet, inasmuch as
it had not been reversed for error, they ruled that it could not
be collaterally impeached; and they say, in express terms, that
had there been no deed from the officer, in fact, the decree would
have been conclusive of the sufficienc?/ of the evidence to warrantit.
In the case of Parker v, Overman, in 18 Howard, 140, this
court, commenting upon the statute of Arkansas, has said:
"In case no one appears to contest the regularity of the sale,
the court is required to confirm it on finding certain facts to
exist; but if opposition is made, and it should appear that the
sale was made contrary to law, it became the duty of the court
to annul it. The judgment or decree in favor of the grantee
in the deed operates as a complete bar against any and all persons who may thereafter claim such laud in consequence of
any informality or illegality in thd proceedings. The jurisdiction of the court over the controversy is founded on the presence of the property, and like a proceeding in rem it becomes
conclusive against the absent claimant as well as the present
contestant."
This interpretation of the statutes of Arkansas is fully coincident with that propounded by the cases of Merrick & Fenno
v. Hutt, and of Evans & Black v. Percifull, already cited; and
sustain the correctness of the instructions of the Circuit Court
as to the effect of the decree of confirmation of the Circuit
Court of Pulaski county.

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

343

HcKinlay d al. v. Aforrish et aZ.

A question was raised in the Circuit Court,.as to the effect
of the five years' statutory limitation upon the rights of the
parties; as, for instance, whether that statute would begin to
run from the date of the deed of the sheriff or from the period
of the recording of that deed, or whether it could operate
at all upon a constructive seizin effected by the sheriff's
deed, or required, in order to give it effect, an actual seizin by
the purchaser from the sheriff. This question we do not deem
it necessary, or even regular, in this case to discuss or determine. In the first place, the rulings of the court below with
regard to it were in favor of the plaintiff in error, and therefore can constitute no wrong or gravamen on his part. In the
next place, we.consider that question embraced and concluded,
or rather excluded, by the proceedings in chancery against the
property, and the conlirmation of the title by the decree.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is affirmed.

FINLAY MCKINLAY AND ALEXANDER GARRIOCK, COMPOSING THE
lIRM OF MCEINLAY, GARRIocK,
LIAM MORRISH, MASTER AND

&

Co., APPELLANTS, V. "WI-

CLAIMANT

OF THE SHIP PONS

AELII, ON BEHALF OF ROBERT AND EDWARD FORMBY, OWNERS
OF SAID SHIP.
The rules of pleading in admiralty must be strictly complied with. The evidence
and arguments confined to the points put in issue by the allegations of the
libel and denial of the answer.
Where the allegation of a libel was, that a cargo of soap had been injured by bad
stowage, and by negligence of the captain that he had allowed the seams of the
deck to be in an open and leaking condition, by which water had passed
through them upon the soap, the evidence shows that the cargo was not injured
by bad stowage or leaking from the deck.
The injury to the cargo was caused by the .sweat of the ship, her rocking, the
nature of the compound of soap, and its long agitation in the boxes, to which
it had been subjected in a boisterous passage.
The rule is well established, that a consignee may sue in a court of admiralty,
either in his own name, as agent, or in the name of his principal, as he think
best'

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the -United
States for the districts rf California, sitting in admiralty.

