SUPREME COURT.
Leggett et a?. v. Humphreys.

is incorporated for the express purpose of insurance of property
against fire, in the absence of any prescribed mode of payment
of premiums, the power to prescribe it by the company is
necessarily implied*, otherwise, the object for which it was

created would be defeated.
This question has been indir-ctly before several of the courts
of New York, and in all of them, so far as any opinion has
been expressed, as I understand, it has been in favor of the
validity of these policies.
The practical construction of this act of 1849 by the public
officers of the State, including the Attorney General, who were
required to supervise the preliminary steps made necessary to
the organization of the company, and to certify that it had
conformed to the provisions of the act, and the latter officers
especially, that the charter was in accordance with it, is deserving of consideration., Under the construction thus given,
numerous companies have been organized with charters like
the present, providing for cash premiums, or premium notes,
at the election of the insured, and an extensive business of
insurance carried on in New York and several of the sister
States, and, although this practical construction cannot be
admitted as controlling, it is not to be overlooked, and perhaps should be regarded as decisive in a case of doubt, or
where the error is not plain.
The judgment of the court below is affirmed.
Mr. Justice DANIEL dissents, on the ground of want of jurisdiction.
ToMAs LEGGETT, JUNIOR, SAMUEL SMITH, AND SMITH LAWRENCE, APPELLANTS, v. BENJAMIN G. HUMPHREYS.
There Was a suit brought in the Circuit Court of the United States for the southern district of Mississippi, against a sheriff and his sureties upon the sheriff's
official bond, in which judgment was given for the defendant. Being brought
to this court by writ of error, the judgment was reversed, and a mandate went
down, directing the Circuit Court to enter judgment for the plaintiffs. (See 2
Howard, 28.)
Whilst the suit was pending i this court, judgment against the sheriff and his
sureties was given in a State court, and execution was issued against one of

DECE!MBER TERM, 1858.

67

Legelt et al. v. Humphreys.
the sureties, by means of which his property was sold and the amount of the
penalty of the bond collected and paid over.
When the mandate of this court went down, the Circuit Court entered judgment
azainst the surety, who filed his bill in equity for relief. 1is suit also was
brought up to this court, who decided that the complainant was entitled to
relief. (See 9 Howard, 297.)
Further proceedings in this case render it necessary for this court now to decidestssmz7urz3, and be cannot be called
1. That the obligation of the surety is .sr
upon to pay more than the penalty of his bond.
2. That as he was not permitted to plead puts darrezn,continuance, the satisfaction of the penalty of his bond, &c., be is entitled to relief in equity.
3. That the obligor in a bond has a right to convey property for the purpose of
indemnifying his surety, provided it be done bona fide, and there is no lien
upon the property of the obligor.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the southern district of Mississippi;
In some of its connections it had twice before been before
this court, (as reported in 2 Howard, 28, and 9 Howard, 297.)
The history of the case is given in the opinion of the court,
and need not be repeated.
It was argued by Ar Bradky and Mr Johnson for the appellants, and by M1Tr Carlisle, upon a brief filed by Mr Badger and
Mfr Carlisle, for the defendant.
The principal point upon which the decision of the court
turned was the following, as stated by the counsel for the appellants.
Can the aid of a court of equity be had to protect a surety
from payment of the penalty of an 6fficial bond, on the ground
that he has once paid the full amoiint,. whenbefore payment
by the surety, the principal had placed in his hands money or
property exceeding the amount of the penalty'
In other words, would not the surety wrongfully escape in
this case, if it clearly appears that the payment he seeks to set
up was made, or, which is the same thing,,reimbursed to him
out of the.property of the sheriff?
The counsel for'the appellants contended thgt-a payment by
the surety under such circumstances would not exonerate him,
because the object of the bond was to afford a security addi-

SUPREME COURT.
Leggett et al. v. Hwnphreys.

tional to the property of the sheriff. The very property conveyed to indemnify the surety would have been primarily liable
for the safety of judgment creditors, who would have had the
responsibility of the surety as additional security; and, moreover, a larger amount of property has been conveyed than was
sufficient to indemnify the surety
With regard to this- point, the counsel for the appellee observed.
A principal is bound fully to indemify his surety against all
loss resulting from his suretyship, including therein all reasonable expenses to which he may have been put.
Heyden v. Cabot, 17 Mass., 172.
A surety, as such, is deemed a creditor in equity, and, both
at law and in equity, an assignment for his indemnity is valid,
tho ugh the liability be *futureand contingent.
Williams v. Washington, 1 Dev Eq. R., 137
Stevens v. Bell, 6 Mass., 339.
Hendricks v. Robinson, 2 Johns. Oh. R., 283, 306.
Halsey v. Fairbanks, 4 Mason, 207
Miller v. Howry, 3 Pen. and W., 374.
Consequently, the appellee cannot be bound to pay to other
creditors of Bland moneys received by him of Bland for his
own indemnity, and necessary for and -pplied to such indemnity
But if the appellee had, of the funds assigned to him by
Bland, a surplus, after fully indemnifying himself, upon what
principle can the appellant charge the appellee with such surplus in this suit, or in any way use it to repel his equity 9
Such a surplus would belong to Bland or his representatives,
both as a resulting trust and by-the express provision of the
conveyance, f6r it the appellee would stand accountable to him
or them. Could he discharge himself by paying it to the appellants? Would such payment be an-answer to a suit by
Bland or his representatives 9 These questions, it is conceived,
must be answered in the negative. But to charge the appel-.
lee with the payment of the judgment at law, or any part of
it, because he had moneys in his hands belonging to Bland,
would be exactly equivalent to compelling him to pay these

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

69

Legget et al. v. Humphreys.

moneys to the appellant, at the same time leaving him responsible to Bland or his representatives therefor.
It is true, if the appellants were judgment creditors of Bland,
they might by some proper proceeding attach such surplus in the hands of the appellees, (4 John. Ch., 670, 687,) but
surely not in this suit, and even in such proceeding Bland or
his representative would seem to be a necessary party
.But the appellants ar. not n any way creditorsof Bland. In the.
action at law, final judgment was rendered in the Circuit Court
for -Bland against the appellants, and that judgment is in full
force, the writ of error having been abated as to him.
Wherefore it is conceived, that even if there were funds in
the hands of the appellee, after indemnifying him, that fact
would not affect, in whole or in part, his right to relief against
the judgment.
Mr. Justice DANIEL delivered the opinion of the court.
The controversy between these parties, although in its progress it has- been much complicated and, involved, yet, as to
the principle by which -its true character is defined, and by
which its decision should be controlled, is simple enough.
That principle is the extent of the pecuniary responsibility
sustained by the surety in an official bond for the conduct of
his principal.
To a correct comprehension of the position of the parties to
*this cause, some length of detail as to the facts and pleadings
it contains, is necessarThe appellee, together with one Grissom, having in the year
1887 bound himself in the penalty of $15,000, as surety to the
official bond of Richard J. Bland, sheriff of Claiborne county,
in the State of Mississippi, a suit was instituted in the name
,of the Governor of the State upon that bond, for the use of the
appellants, in the Circuit-Court of the United States for the
southern district of Mississippi, charging a breach of the condition of that bond by Bland, in having released from jail one
McNider, against.whom the appellants.had, recovered a judgment in the Circuit Court aforesaid, and whom, after being
charged in execution in that court, the marshal:had committed

SUPREME COURT.
Leggelt el aZ. v. Humphnres.

to the custody of Bland, the sheriff. Under certain provisions
of the statutes of Mississippi, it was pleaded in defence to this
action, that McNider being insolvent and unable to pay his
prisbn fees, the appellants, who were non-residents, had failed
to pay those fees, or, as required by the law of the State, to
give security for their payment, or to appoint an agent within
the county on whom demand for the prison fees could be made,
and that, in consequence of such failure, McNider had, by a
regular judicial order, been discharged from jail as an insolvent debtor. Upon a demurrer to the plaintiff's replications
to these pleas, the Circuit Court gave judgment with costs in
favor of the sheriff and the appellee, Humphreys, the suit having been previously discontinued as to the other surety, Grissom. This judgment was upon a writ of error reversed by
this court, and the cause was remanded to the Circuit Court
with instructions (Bland, the sheriff, pending the cause here,
having died) to enter a judgment against the appellee, as
surety, for the sum of $3,910.78, besides the costs. (Vid. McNutt v. Bland et al., 2 Howard, 28.) In the interval between
the emanation of the writ of error and the reversal of the judgment of the Circuit Court, two judgments were, on motion,
obtained in the State court against the sheriff and Humphreys
as his surety, by the Planters' Bank Qf Mississippi, one for the
sum of $12,325.22, and the other for $2,674.75, making an
aggregate amount exceeding the penalty of the bond in which
the appellee was surety; and the property of that surety was
levied upon and sold under execution, and the proceeds applied
in full satisfaction of the amount of the, penalty
Upon the
receipt in the Circuit Court of the mandate of this court, the
appellee as surety as aforesaid, moved the Circuit Court for leave
to plead puis darrem continuance, the judgments, levy, and satisfaction above mentioned, in fulfilment of his bond and of his
liability for the sheriff; but the Circuit Court refused leave to
plead these facts in discharge or satisfaction of the penalty, and,
in literal obedience to the mandate of this court, rendered judgment against the appellee, as surety for the sum hereinbefore
mentioned. The appellee, Humphreys, then exhibited his bill
on the equity side of the Circuit Cou-t, alleging the aforegoing

DECEMBER TERM14, 1858.

71

Leggea et al. v. Humphreys.

facts, and averring, moreover, that no notice or process of any
lind had ever been served upon him in the suit of Mcuttv.
Blaad et al., but that the return of the officer of service as to
the appellee was absolutely false. Upon these allegations, an
injunction to the judgment at law was granted.by the .Circuit
Court, but subsequently, upon a demurrer to the bill by the
appellants, the injunction was dissolved and the bill dismissed.
From this decree of dismission an appeal was taken to this
court, who, after a hearing, expressed the following conclusions,
Viz:

"In the case before us, the surety had been compelled to pay
the whole amount of his bond by process from the State courts
before the present defendants obtained their judgment against
him, but after the institution of their suit. *Thiswould -have
been a good defence to the action, if pleaded yuw diarrern con..
tinuance. The complainant tendered. his plea at the proper
time, and was refused the benefit of itj not because it was adjudged insufficient as a defence, but because the court consid-"
ered they had no discretion to.allow it. The mandate from
this court was probably made without reference to the possible
consequences which might flow from it. At all events, it operated unjustly by precluding the plaintiff from an opportunity
of making a just and legal defence to the action, The pay.ment,was -madewhilst the cause was pending here. The party
was guilty of no 'achesi but lost the benefit of his defence by
an accident over which he had no control. He is therefore in
the same condition as if the Afence.had arisei after judgment,
.wlth-would entitle him to relief by audita querela, or bill in
equity. "We.are therefore of the.opinion. that the c9mplaiant
was entitled to the relief prayed. fpr m: tie bill, and that the
"
decree of the couft below should be reversed."
The cause was thereupon. remanded to the Circuiit Court for
further proceedings to be had therein, in conformity with the
above opinion. (Vid. 9 How., 313, 314, Humphreys o., Leggett et al.) On the filing of the mandate in thjs latter case,
the &fendants (the present appellants) being ruled bytht Cirpuit Courtto answer the bill for.thye inj rittion,iaqmit by their
answer the recovery of their judgment against Humphrevs as

SUPREME COURT
Leggett et al. v. .umphreys.

surety for Bland. They acknowledge their belief of the judgments in the State court against the sheriff and Ins surety, and
,the levy under those judgments, and the. return ofsatisfaction
upon the executions by the proper officer, but allege that the
judgmen.ts were fraudulently suffered in order to defeat the
appellants, that no money was paid under the pretended sale,
and that the property was retained by- Humphreys. In an
amended answer, filed by leave of the court, the appellants
allege that Bland, the sheriff, had transferred the judgments in
the State court, for $10,524, to Humphreys, who, under that
assignment, had received the sum of $18,000; that he had not
discharged the.penalty of the sheriff's -bond, and from various
sources had received funds exceeding all his liabilities arising
therefrom. Subsequenfly viz in 1851, the. appellants, by a
cross bill ugainst the appellee, charged that Bland, to indemnify the appellee as surety in the bond of 1837, had assigned
certain debts and other subjects of property, real and personal,
to an amount more than equal to the penalty of tnat bon'd,
that among these subjects were the fee bills due to Bland, as
sheriff, to.a large amount, and also the judgments set forth ip
the orginal bill as having been recovered in the State courts,
and that these judgmentg had been di'scharged by Humphreys
by notes purchased by him at the depreciation of fifty cents in
the, dollar. To this cross bill a demurrer was interposed by
Humphreys, but, upon being ruled by the court to answer, he
admitted that jn March, 1840, Bland conveyed, in a deed of
that date, to Volney Stamps, the property mentioned1 in that
deed, in trust to indemnify the appellee as su'rety in the official bond of Bland, of November, 1837, and to indemnify the
aame appellee and one Flowers, as sureties for Bland on his
official bond of 1839, and to save them harmless against all loss
and damage, and all money paud, or charge or expense to be ncurred,
in consequence of being sureties in the said official bonds. He'
admits that so much of the property as could be found has beer
sold by th trustee, and that from the proceeds of sale, aftei
Aeducting the expenses of sale, respondent has received three.
fourths, amounfing to $3,825, and the said Flowers one-fourth
amounting to $1,275, Which make the whole amount that. hat

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

73

Leggdt et a. v. umphreys.

been realized from the trust fund. He 'admits that in 1840,.
for his firther indemnity, Bland assigned to him all the fees
then due to the. former as .sheriff of Claiborne county,' bat
alleges that from this source there has been received an aggregate amount of only $3,288.17, as shown by the statements of
the persons employed in -the collection of those fees, filed as
exhibits with the answer. The respondent further admits, that
after the recovery by the Planters' Bank of the $12,325.22
against said Bland and respondent, which recovery was founded
on an original judgment of the said bank against P Hoopes,
J. H. Moore, and John'M. Carpenter, the said Bland clanming
to be the owner of that judgment, did assign all his rights and
interests therein to responden, for his indemnity, as he: had to
pay the penalty of the bond.
The respondent claims the benefit of that judgment, but
alleges that he has collected nothing under it from either
Hoopes or Moore, each of whom became insolvent prior, to
1840, and still continued insolvent. That the judgment of the
Planters' Bank against Cam]pbell Pierson and Moore, for
$3,702.66, had always been unproductive and worthless, and
that nothing had been or would be received therefrom, by
reason of the insolvency of the defendants in that judgment.
That in a suit pending in the Superior Court of Chancery of
the State of Mississippi; upon a creditor's bill, the respondent
has exhibited the former judgment of the Planters' Bank for
$10,855.93, as a claim against the estate of H. Carpenter & Co.,
and the commissioner has reported it as a valid claim for that
amount, with interest thereon from N~ovember 1st, 1840. That
this report having been excepted to, and remaining still a subject of contest, the Court of Chancery had in the mean time,
out, of the funds of the estate, ordered the payment to the
appellee of the amount of the said. judgment or claim for
$10,855.93 with interest, amounting in the whole to $18,852.75,
upon his entering into bond with security to refund that
amount in the event that it should be disallowed by the court.
With-this answer denying his having been indemnified, were
exhibited ns parts thereof, the deed of trust from Bland, the
amount of fees.collected under the assignment from Bland, and

SUPREME COURT.
Leggeu et ad. v. Hump7hres.

a statement of the account between Bland and Humphreys.
With the original bill of Humphreys were exhibited also, the
bonds in which he was- bound as surety, the records of the
judgments on motion against the sheriff and aumphreys, and
by the deposition of Maury, the attorney for the Planters'
Bank, was proved the satisfaction of those judgments by sales
of the property of Humphreys under execution. At the May
term of the Circuit Court, in the year 1856, this cause having
been submitted to the court upon the original bill, the answer
and replication, and the exhibits and proofs, and upon the cross
bill and the answer thereto, and upon- the exhibits therewith,
the following decree was then made. "It is ordered, adjudged,
and decreed; that the injunction heretofore granted in this
cause be made perpetual, and that the defendants, Leggett
Smith and Lawrence, and their agents and attorneys, be and
they are hereby forever enjoined and restrained from taking
out any execution upon a certain judgment rendered on the
law side of this court, on the 14th day of May, 1845, in favor
of Alexander Mc~utt, Governor, suing for the use of Leggctt
Smith and Lawrence, against the said Humphreys, the complainant, for the sum of $6,355.33, being the judgment mentioned in the bill of complaint in this cause, and that they be
forever enjoined and restrained from taking or adopting any
step or proceeding to enforce the payment of the said judgmient by the complainant Humphreys, or the collection thereof
out of his estate. And it is further adjudged and decreed, that
the said complainant do recover of the said defendants his costs
of suit to be taxed." ',This decree having been brought by.
.appeal before. the court, its legality and justice are now the
subjects for our examination.
With reference to the defence essayed by the defendant'in
the suit of McINutt v. Bland, after the filing of the mandate of
this court in that cause, the opinion of this court in the case
of Humphreys o. Leggett et .al. would seem to be conclusive,
both as to the period at which the defence was proffered, and
the legitimacy and sufficiency of'the defence, if substantiated
by proof. The 'facts tendered in defence coming into existence after the issues previously made up, weye not on that ac-

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

75

Leggt ed al. v. Humphrea.

count legs essentially conneeted with the character of the controversy, nor could the defendant for that reason have been
justly deprived of their influence upon that controversy He
appeafs to have sought to avail himself of the earliest and only
opportunity for alleging them bypleapu s daretneontinuan e. In
support of his right so to plead, it would be adding nothing to
the clearly-expressed opinion of this court in the 9th of How,
ard, to refer to eases collated in elementary treatises on pleading.
In judging of the character or suficiency of the defence
alleged for the exemption of the appellee, there should be taken
as a guide the rule, which is perhaps without an,exception,
that sureties are never held responsible beyond the clear, and
absolute Verms and meaning of their undertakings. Presumptions or equities are never allowed to enlarge or in any degree
to change their legal obligations. This rule is thus forcibly
put by Chancellor Xent in the 3d Commentaries, p. 124, where
he says: "When the contract of u guarantoror -surety is duly,
ascertained and-understood by a fair and liberal- construction
of the instrument, the principle is well settled, that the case
must be brought stricly within the terms of the guaranty, and
the liability of the surety cannot be extended by implication."
It will be seen that, to a certain extent, even the creditor whose
claim the surety has under the terms of his obligation been
compelled to satisfy, may be required to co-operate in effecting
the indemnity of the latter. Thus it issaid, on the same page
of the work just quoted, that "the claim against a surety is
strwtisszmjurzs, and it is a well-settled principle, that a surety
who pays the debt of his principal, will in a clear case.:in equity
be substituted in the place of the creditor to all the -lensheld
by him to secure the payment of his debt, and the creditor 2s
bound to preserve themunmpaire .when he intends to look to the
,surety." For this doctrine are cited numerous English and
American authorities.
In the case of Graves v. McCall, (1 Wash. Rep., 864,) it is
said, by the Court of Appeals of Virginia, "that a court of
equity will not charge a surety farther than he is bound at
law, but if a surety bound at law cannot be charged;there for

SUPREME COURT.
Legget d al. v. Humphreys.

the want of the instrument of which the creditor is deprived
by accident or fraud, a court of equity will restore the paper
to its ega force.
In the case of the United States v. White et al., (1 Wash.
Cir. Ct. Rep., 417,) it is rulej by Washington, Justice, "that
a surety can never be bound beyond the scope of his engagement, and therefore a surety for the faithful service ofrB as
clerk to C, who afterwards enters into partnership with D, is
not liable for unfaithful conduct to C and D." The same law
has been explicitly and repeatedly ruled by this court, as will
be seen in the cases of MWler v. Stewart, (9 Wheat., 680;) of
McGill v. The Bank of the United States, (12 Wheat., 511,-)
and the United States v. Boyd et al., (15 Pet., 187 )
The piinciple which limits the liability of the surety by the
penalty of his bond,'inheres intrinsically in the character of
his engagement. He does not undertake to perfbrim'the acts
or duties, stipulated by his principal, and would not be permitted to control their performance, and could not, where his
principal was a public officer, legally assume the functions of
that, principal. The undertaking of the surety is essentially a
pledgp to make good the misfeasance or non-feasance of his
principal to an amount co-extensive with the penalty of his
bond. In addition to this interpretation resulting from the
character of the obligation of the surety, the statute of Mississippi, which necessarily enters into and controls all contracts
made under its authority, expressly limits the responsibility of
a surety in a sheriff's bond-to the amount of the penalty of that
bond. (Vide Hut. Miss. Co., p. 441, art. 3, sec. 1.) Indeed, it has
scarcely been contested in argument in this case, that the extent
of the surety's liability upon the sheriff's bond was measured by
the amountf the penalty The great effort of counsel has been
to show in this case that satisfaction of the penalty of the bond
has not been honestly made, but has been fraudulently evaded.
1. By the provisions of the deed of trust for the indemnity
of the appellee, and in the application of the property thereby
conveyed, and by the subsequent assignment of fees to a large
amount, exceeding together in value the judgments of the
Planters' Bank against the sheriff and his surety

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

77

Legget d a. v. Humthreys.

2. By the sale of tle property of the appellee under the executions in behalf bf the Planters' Bank at 'a sacifice greatly
below its value.
The force of these positions will now be considered.
Whilst it may be conceded that a fraudulent tombination
between the officer and his surety, for the purpose of shielding
the property of both or either from just,responsibility, and in
contemplation of delinquency in. the former, would have the
effect of vitiating any compact or instrument made .with such
a designi, it is undeniable that an open and honest effort of a
pnncipgl to protect his surety against casualties incident to a
responsibility about to be assumed for him, cannot be obnoxious to objection, and it is equally clear, that the simple fact
of the existence of such an effort, unattended by any known
sndiaur of fraud, and unassailed by plain or probable direct
proofs, can warrant no just impeachment of such an effort,
which may be praiseworthy and just with reference to its object, -and calculated to promote'the performance of services to
the public-which otherwise could not be undertaken. The
practice of providing such an indemnity f~r sureties is known
to be usual and frequent, and it would be difficult to imagine
an objection, either legal or moral, to its application to the
extent to which the surety had been made answerable upon his
bond. The right of a debtor in the first instance to apply his
payments wherever his funds are not specifically bound, is universally admitted. Thejudgment of the Circit Court in the
case of McNutt v. Bland having been against the plaintiff, and
the deed by 1&nd for the indemnity of the appellee having
been executed for a bona fide consideration pending- the proceedings on the writ of error to the 'Circuit .Court, and. no final
judgment of that court having been entered to this day, there
was no specific lien-on the property of Bland which prevented
its appropriation in exoneration of ls surety, or which forbade
any payments or assignments by 11im in discharge of his liability. A strong illustration of this position may be seen in
the case of the United States v. Cochran, decided by Marshall,
Chief Justicei and reported in the 2d vol. of Brockenbrough's,
Reports, p. 274. It. is one of that class m which priority is

78

SUPREME COURT.
Leggeit et al. v. Hump7reys.

claimed for the Uniteq States in instances of insolvency of
their debtors. It is thus stated by the judge.
"Robert Cochran, collector at the port of Wilmington, 1.
C., being very largely indebted to the United States, made a
-deed of his property for their benefit. Previous to the execution of this 'deed'he deposited $10,000, the amount of the bond
executed to the United' States for the faithful performance of
his 'duty, in a trunk, which was placed in the bank, and absconded. From Baltimore he addressed a letter to his sureties, requesting the trunk to be taken out, and the money to
be applied to their exoneration. The money was received at
the Treasury, and the bond given up; It being afterwards discovered that this was the money of the collector, and not of
the sureties, this suit is brought to compel the sureties to pay
the amount of the bond, considering the money received as
*
*
*
constituting no equitable discharge as to them.
The act of Congress does not transfer the property itself to the
,Umted States, but subjects it to their debts in the first instance.
The assignee holds it asthe debtor would hold it, liable to the
claim of the United States, and, if he converts it to his own use,
or puts it out of the -reach of the United States he is undoubtedly respongible for its value.
*
*
*
But the power
of the debtor to apply his payments is co-extensive with that
of the creditor. This principle has, it is believed, never been
denied. If it' be -correct, then the power of Mr. Cochran to
apply this sum of money in discharge of the bond, and in exoneration of the sureties to it, is co-extensive with that of the
United States tomake the same application of-it. If then Mr.
Cochran iad wilthout any assignment of his property paid thic
money into the Tre6ury, with a direction that it should be
applied to tke bond, hO would have exercised a right which
the law gives to every debtor.
*
V Does the transfer of this money to the sureties change the law of the case 9
We think not. It has-been very properly argued that the act
of Congress gives to the debi due to the United States priority
over debts due to itidividuals, but not to one part cf the debt
due to the United States over any other part'of it; nor does it
vest the property absolutely in the United cStates, though it

DE CEMBER TERM, 1858.

79

Leggett et al. v. Humphireys.

gives them the right to pursue it for the purpose of appropria,ting it in payment It would seem to follow, that the right to
apply payments whilst the money is in the hands of -thedebtors, is not affected by the act of Congress, but remains as it
would stand independent of that act. If then the sureties had
declared to the Treasury Department that the money was received from Mr. Cochran, to be paid in discharge of their bond,.
and ha'dotendered it in payment thereof, we think the. tender
would have been valid, and might have been pleaded in a suit
on the bond."
Tins was a case- where there was a legal priority in the creditor, where there existed a quas lien, or a restriction upon. the
power of the debtor to dispose of his property, so as to exeinpt
it or its value from the claim of the creditor. In the case under
consideratiQni no such restrictien existed, no lien by .judgment or other specific claim upon the property conveyed in
trust to'Stamps, and no evidence having been adduced of a
fraudulent purpose in makifg that conveyanc4, no valid objection is perceived to an application of the proceeds of that, conveyance towards the -indemnity of the surety; and these proceeds, together with the amount of the Aherff's fee bills collected, it is, shown by the testimony, are far short of the
penalty of the bond discharged by the surety
The right to any surplus which, upon a settlement between
the-appellee and Bland or his representatives may remain in
the hands of the former, we regard as not involved -n nor pertinent to this controversy, which-relates regularly and exclusively to the question whether the appellee, as the surety for
Bland, has fulfilled the exigency of his bond-by a satisfaction
of-the penalty.
In answer to the objection which has been utged, and
founded on the alleged sacrifice of the properpy of the appellee
in the sale under the judgments of the Planters' Ba{nk, it may
be remarked, that the relevancy or force of such an objection
is not perceived. The questions here are these,'and these only,
viz: whether the-penafty of the bond executed by the appellee
has been satisfied, or whether there remains still a.portion of
that penalty of wich the appellants can claim the benefit?

SUPREME COURT.
Riakmond v. City of Af"lwaukw.

The judgments in favor of the bank, the levy upon the property of the appellee, the sale and satisfaction to the-full amount
of the penalty, are facts all established of record. Whatever
sacrifice of the property"of the appellee by these tindoubted
proceedings may have been-produced, is his loss, and his only,
and canin no wise affect the validity of his release by the fulfilment of his obligation..
The decree of the Circuit Court is therefore affirmed, with
costs.
DEAN RICHmOND, APPELLANT, V. THE CITY oF MILwAUKIE A
FERDINAND KUEHN.
There.being no special provision in the act of Congress regulating appeals from
the District Court of the United States in Wisconsin, they are governed by the
general law of 1803.
By that act, no appeal will lie unless the sum or value m controversy exceeds two
thousand dollars.

THIS was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the district of Wisconsin.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr Brown for the appellant, upon which
side there was also a brief by Brown and Ogden, and by Mr
Doolittle for the appellee.
As the case went off upon a question of jurisdiction, the
arguments and points of the counsel upon its merits are omitted.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This s an appeal from the District Court of the United States
for the district of Wisconsin, exercising the powers of a Circuit Court.
It appears that a bill was filed in that court bythe appellant,
praying an injunction to prohibit the conveyance of certain
lots in the city of Milwaukie, which. had been sold for the
by the corporation.
payment of city taxes assessed upon it,

