AETNA LIFE INS. CO. v. MOORE.
231 U. S.

Syllabus.

clause of § 299 of the Judicial Code, which was intended
to cover such a case as this.,
Reversed and remanded with direction to allow plaintiff to
amend by alleging the citizenship of the originalparties
to the paper within such time as the court shall think
proper and upon failure to do so, to dismiss for want
of jurisdiction.

AETNA LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v. MOORE,
ADMINISTRATOR OF SALGUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 33.

Argued November 3, 1913.-Decided December 22, 1913.

The character of the covenants of a contract for life insurance depends
upon the law of the State where made. The Co'de of Georgia expressly
provides that the application must be made in good faith and that
the representations are covenanted by the applicant as true, and any
variations changing the character of the risk will void the policy.
The law of Georgia as determined by its highest court, prior to the
adoption of the Code, was that insurer and insured may make their
own contract and determine what representations are material.
The highest court of Georgia has decided that mere immaterial matters,
although declared to be warranties, do not void a policy even though
the policy declares them to be such, and that under the Code the

parties themselves could not contract to make immaterial matter
material.

In order for an insurance company, defending on the ground of false
statements in the application, to ,have a verdict directed, it must
establish that the representations were material to the risk and were
untrue.
A representation that the applicant for insurance has never been rejected by any company, association or agents is material to the risk
and is not true if he has withdrawn an application at the suMestion

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Respondent.

231 U. S.

of the medical adviser, and with the knowledge that the company
to whom the application was made was about to reject it.
Applicants for insurance are competent to make agreements in the
policy that no persQn other than the. executive officers of the company can vary its terms, and such an agreement is binding when
made.
A decision of the highest court of a State on a principle of general jurisprudence is not controlling upon this court. Kuhn v. Fairmont
Coal Co., 215 U. S. 349.
Where two cases are consolidated by the court below because it appears
reasonable to do so under § 921, Rev. Stat., and this court doubts the
reasonableness of the consolidation, it need not pass upon that subject definitely if, as in this case, a new trial is ordered on other grounds.
THE facts, which involve the validity of a verdict and
judgment 'on a policy of life insurance, are stated in the
opinion.

Mr. A. L. Miller, with whom Mr. M. D. Jones, Mr.
George S. Jones, Mr. Walter Defore, Mr. Wallace Miller
and Mr. Charles H. Hall, Jr., were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Jesse Harrisand Mr. Minter Wimberly, with whom
Mr. Alexander Akerman was on the brief, for respondent:
Consolidating the causes was a proper exercise of the
discretion of the trial court under § 921, Rev. Stat. Mutual
Life Ins. Co. v. Hillman, 145 U. S. 285.
There was no error in the failure and refusal of the court
to direct a verdict in favor of the insurance company.
While the policy is a Georgia contract, and the law of
Georgia will, therefore, be applied in construing and considering the contract, the construction of the Georgia
law will be taken in connection with the law as construed
by the courts of the United States relating to contracts
of life insurance. For the statute law of Georgia applicable to the case, see 1 Code of Georgia of 1910, §§ 24792482, and § 2499.

AETNA LIFE-INS. CO. v. MOORE.
231 U. S.

Argument for Respondent.

The evidence for both the plaintiff and the defendant
in the court below clearly establishes the fact that there
was no fraudulent concealment of any material fact and
no wilful concealment of any fact that would enhance the
risk.
All material facts were made known to the agents of the
defendant company. It cannot be said that there was any
fraudulent concealment as to these questions by the insured. This being true, the policy will not be voided.
Ley v. MetropolitanLife Ins. Co., 120 Iowa, 203; Patten v.
U. S. Life Ins. Co.. 141 N. Y. 589; Vol. 25, Cyc. of Law &
Procedure, 796.
The refusal of the court to give the instructions requested by plaintiff in error was proper. O'Connell v.
Supreme Conclave, 102 Georgia, 143; Farrell v. Security
Life Ins. Co., 125 Fed. Rep. 684.
The refusal of the court to so charge was not error because the representations and warranties made by the
applicant that he did not have heart trouble were true,
and this was a question of fact for the jury to decide.
The insurance company is estopped from alleging that
this answer was not the trutbh, as the agents who solicited
the insurance and the medical examiner for the company,
who examined the deceased, acted as the agents of the
insurance company and the insurance company is bound
thereby. Union Mut. Ins. Co. v. Wilkinson, 13 Wall.
222; American Life Ins. Co. v. Mahone, 21 Wall. 152;
New Jersey Mut. Ins. Co. v. Baker, 94 U. S. 610; Clubb v.
American Accident Co., 97 Georgia, 502; Gerinan-American
Ins. Co. v. Farley, 102 Georgia, 735; Continental Ins. Co.
v. Chamberlain, 132 U. S. 304; Springfield Fire Ins. Co.
v. Price, 132 Georgia, 687; Johnson v. Aetna Ins. Co., 123
Georgia, 404; Mechanics Ins. Co. v. Mutual Bldg. Assn.,
98 Georgia, 262; Wood v. American Fire Ins. Co., 149
N. Y. 382.
The answer given by the applicant may have been inVOL. ccxxxi-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Respondent.

231 U. S.

complete, but the agents of the company knew that he had
consulted at least two other physicians, and they did not
deem it necessary to insert this fact in the answer. Therefore, the action of the insurance company's agent, which
led the applicant to believe that it was unnecessary to give
the names of all the physicians whom he had consulted,
was such action as to estop the company from insisting
upon a forfeiture for the failure to so state. Penix
Mut. Ins. Co. v. Doster, 106 U. S. 30; Hartford Life Ins.
Co. v. Unsell, 144 U. S. 439; N. Y. Life Ins. Co. v. Eggleston,
96 U. S. 572.
If the answer was not complete, or imperfectly answered,
the issuance of the policy without further inquiry, especially when the insurance company had been put on notice,
as in the case at bar, amounts to a waiver of the objection,
and makes the omission immaterial. Phcenix Mut. Ins. Co.
v. Raddin, 120 U. S. 183.
It was not necessary for the applicant, in answer to the
question, to state the names of physicians he consulted
for merely slight or temporary indispositions. McLain v.
Provident Ins. Co., 110 Fed. Rep. 80; Hubbard v. Mutual
Reserve Fund, 100 Fed. Rep. 719.
This particular question is not a warranty, but is a
representation. Minn. Mut. Ins. Co. v. Lee, 230 Illinois,
273.
Whether or not the statements made in the application
are material to the risk is a question for the jury and not a
question of law for the court.
Misstatements by way or representations of warranty,
which are made through fraud of the company's agent,
cannot be relied on by it to defeat the policy, and especially is this so where the insured is misled by the agent
into making the false statements. StandardLife Ins. Co. v.
Frazier,76 Fed. Rep. 705; 25 Ency. of Law and Procedure,
803; Globe Mut. Ins. Co. v. Myer, 118 Ill. App. 155.
Whether or not the alleged falsities of the answers of

AETNA LIFE INS. CO. v. MOORE.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the insured would void the policy, should be submitted as a
question of fact for the jury, in order to determine whether
or not the answers were made bona fide by the applicant.
Moulor v. Ant. Life Ins. Co., 111 U. S. 335; Fidelity Mut.
Life Assn. v. Jeffords, 107 Fed. Rep. 402.
All policies of insurance and applications must be construed against the insurer and in favor of the insured,
and all statements in the application will be construed as
representations rather than warranties. Havan v. Scottish
Union Ins. Co., 186 U. S. 423; Phonix Mut. Life Ins. Co.
v. Raddin, 120 U. S. 183; Home Life Ins. Co. v. Fisher,
188 U. S. 726; First Natl. Bank v. Hartford Ins. Co., 195
U. S.673; FranklinFire Ins. Co. v. Vaughn, 92 U. S. 516;
Mutual Benefit Life Ins. Co. v. Higginbotham, 95 U. S. 380;
Knickerbocker Life Ins. Co. v. Trefz, 104 U. S. 197; 25 Cyc.
796, 815; Penn. Mut. Life Ins. Co. v. Mechanics' Savings
Bank, 72 Fed. Rep. 413.
MR.JusncE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.

Action on a life insurance policy for $6,000 issued upon
the life of John A. Salgue, the intestate of respondent. It
was tried to a jury, resulting in a verdict and judgment for
respondent. The judgment was affirmed on writ of error
to the Circuit Court of Appeals by a per curiam opinion.
This certiorari was then granted.
The questions in the case are based on certain statements made by Salgue which, it is contended by petitioner
(herein called the insurance company), became a part of
the policy and constituted waranties.
The following axe the material provisions of the policy
and the application:
"This policy of insurance witnesseth: That the Aetna
Life Insurance Company, in consideration of the statements, answers and warranties contained in or endorsed

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

upon the application for this policy, which application
is copied hereon and made a part of this contract, and in
further consideration of the annual premium
hereby insures the life of John A. Salgue.
"This policy is issued and accepted subject to the conditions, provisions and benefits printed on the reverse of
this page, which are hereby referred to and made a part
hereof.
"Conditions, provisions and benefits which are made a
part of this policy:
"Section 1. This policy shall not take effect until the
first premium hereon shall have been actually paid during
the lifetime and good health of the insured..
. .
"Section 7. All agreements made by said company are
signed by one of its executive officers. No agent or other
person not an executive officer can alter or waive any of
the conditions of this policy, or make any agreement
binding upon said company."
Copy of the application:
"Being desirous of insuring my life with the Aetna
Life Insurance Company, I do hereby declare and warrant
that I am in good health, of sound body and mind, and that
the following statements signed by me are full, correct
and true; and that I have no knowledge or information
of any disease, infirmity or circumstance not stated in this
application which may render insurance on my life more
hazardous than if such disease, infirmity or circumstance
had never existed; and I do hereby agree that the declarations and warranties herein made, and the answers to the
following questions, together with those signed by me on
the second page of this application, shall be the basis and
form part of the contract (or policy) between me and the
said company, and that if the same be in any respect
untrue, said policy shall be void; and I further agree that
the insurance hereby applied for shall not be binding upon
said company until a policy has been issued, nor until

AETNA LIFE INS. CO. v. MOORE.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the amount of premium as stated therein has been received
by said company, or its authorized agent, during my
lifetime and good health, and a receipt given therefor,
signed by an executive officer of said company; and I
further agree that no statement or declaration made to
any agent, examiner or any other person, and not contained in this application, shall be taken or considered
as having been made to or brought to the notice or knowledge of said company, or as charging it with any liability
by reason thereof; and I understand that all policies and
agreements made by the said Aetna Life Insurance Company are signed by one or more of its executive officers,
and that no other person can grant insurance or make
any agreement binding upon said Company.."
The application also contained questions addressed to
the insured by the eiamining physician and the answers
by him, among others, as follows:
"14. What are the names and residences of all the
physicians whom you have personally employed or consulted during the last five years?"

Answer: "Dr. James T. Ross, Macon, Ga."
"16. Has any proposal or application to insure your
life been made to any company, association or agent on
which a policy of insurance is now pending? Or has any
such proposal or application ever been made for which
insurance has not been granted, or on which a policy or
certificate of insurance was not issued in full amount,
and of the ,same kind as applied for? If so, state particulars and the names of all such companies, associations
or agents."
Answer: "None."
"19. Has any physician expressed an unfavorable opinion upon your life with reference to life insurance?"
Answer: "No."
"21. Have you ever had any of the following diseases?
Answer 'yes' or 'no' opposite each. If 'yes,' stateithe

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

date, duration and severity of illness. . . . Disease
of the heart?"
Answer: "No."
"23. Are you subject to dyspepsia, dysentery or
diarrhcea?" Answer: "No."
"24. Have you. had during the last seven years any
disease or severe sickness? If so, state the particulars of
each case and the names of the attending physicians."
Answer: "No."
There was discussion between Salgue and the examining
physician ,in regard to the condition of Salgue's heart.
His first statement was that he did not have heart disease,
though he had been told he had. The physician explained'
to him the symptoms of the disease, and he replied that
he did not have any of them and never had been treated
for heart trouble. He had, he further said, consulted two
doctors, Little and Winchester, and one of them told him
he had heart disease "and scared him so." The other
told him that he did not have any signs of it. And the
recollection of the physician was that Salgue referred to
Dr. Ross as having treated him for something several
years previously. At the end of the, discussion the physician put down the answer "No." He also reported that
Salgue's respiration was "full, easy and free. 0. K."
and that "auscultation" did not "indicate enlargement
or disease of the heart of any kind."
There was testimony to the effect that about June 15,
1905, and prior to the application to the Aetna, Salgue
applied to the local agent of the Penn Mutual Insurance
Company at Macon for a policy of $6,000. The company's
medical examiner refused to pass him, telling him that he
had heart disease and advising him to see his family
physician, Dr. McAfee. Salgue consulted Dr. McAfee
and was informed by him that he had heart disease.
The contentions of the insurance company are based
(1) upon a request for the direction of a verdict in its

AETNA LIFE INS. CO. v. MOORE.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

favor; (2) the denial of requests for special instructions.
We may confine our consideration to the special requests.
There was controversy as to whether Salgue had heart
disease. We have seen the various opinions of the examining physicians. Salgue was a strong man physically and
his strength was illustrated by instances. At one of his
examinations he easily picked up and removed a large
box of melons without any effect on his heart action.
An effort of strength on another occasion was immediately
detrimental, causing an aneurism which progressively
developed and produced a rupture of the blood vessel
and his death. By the advice of his physician he had quit
work and had gone to a resort called Indian Springs. He
remained there about ten days and on his way home died
suddenly on th6 cars.
It is not necessary to give at length the charges requested. They embrace the propositions (1) that the
application and its statements, warranties and covenants
became part of the contract of insurance, and that any
variation from them whereby the nature, extent or character of the risk was changed, would affect the policy
whether the statement was made by the applicant in good
faith, not knowing they were untrue, or made wilfully or
fraudulently. And so also as to the answers to the questions put to Salgue as to his health, freedom from heart
disease, the physicians he hail consulted, the applications
for insurance which he had made which were rejected or
not accepted. (2) Under tlhe terms of the policy the.
application constituted part of it, the answers to the questions were covenanted and warranted and Salgue was
bound thereby without regard to his good faith in making
them; or that they were representations material to the
risk by which he was bound without regard to his good
faith, and that therefore the answers, if untrue, would
make the policy void. (3) The provisions of the policy
that no statement or declaration made to an agent, exam-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

iner or any other person, and not contained in the application, shall be taken or construed as having been made to or
brought to the knowledge of the company, or as charging
it with any liability by reason thereof, was binding on
Salgue. So also the limitations on the powers of the agents
and of what may have been said to them or by them. And
further that if the answers in the application were incorrect it was Salgue's duty to report them as incorrect to
the company, and, failing to do so, he was presumed to
have' accepted his policy upon the faith of them. It was,
therefore, immaterial what may have been said by or to
the agent or to the m~dical examiner which was not reduced to writing and presented to the officers of the company at the home office.
The charge of the court was very long-too long even
to attempt to condense. It Was antithetical to the special
requests made by the insurance company. Applying certain general principles which it expressed, the court said:
"To make them distinctly applicable to your duty,
you are instructed that you must determine from all the
facts, first, did Salgue make a misrepresentation or concealment of a fact of which he had knowledge. If he did
not, the defense on this point must fail. Second, if he
did, was such misrepresentation or concealment so material
that it would have influenced one or both of the defendants
not to issue the policy of insurance upon the respective
applications. And third, in connection with this your
inquiry will be, if such material misrepresentation or concealment as would have caused the defendants or either
of them to withhold insuranqe was made, was it by Salgue
wilfully or fraudulently done. In the absence of wilful
or fraudulent misrepresentation or concealment of a
material fact the policy stands good and the insurance
company must pay what it promised to pay by its policy,
when it accepted the premium of the applicant."
We may note here that Salgue declared in his applica-

AETNA LIFE INS. CO. v. MOORE.
231 U. S.

Opinion cf the Court.

tion that he was "in good health"; that the statements
made by him were "full, correct and true"; and that he
had no knowledge of "any disease, infirmity or circumstance" which might "render insurance on his life more
hazardous than if such disease, infirmity or circumstance
had never existed." He also agreed that "the declarations
and warranties" therein made, and the answers to the
questions "should be the basis and form part of the contract (or policy)" between him and the company, "and
that if the same be in any respect untrue" the policy should
be "void."
The policy is conceded to be a Georgia contract. The
character of its covenants, therefore, depends upon the
law of that State declared in § 2479 of its Code, as follows:
"Application, Good Faith. Every application for insurance must be made in the utmost good faith, and the representations contained in such application are considered
as covenanted to be true by the applicant. Any variation
by which the nature, or extent, or character of the risk
is changed will void the policy." I
But who is to decide-the court or jury-whether
a variation be of the quality described? We have seen
'SEc. 2480. Effect of misrepresentation. Any verbal or written
representations of facts by the assured to induce the acceptance of the
risk, if material, must be true, or the policy is void. If, however, the
party has no knowledge, but states on the representation of others,
bonafide, and so informs the insurer, the falsity of the information does
not void the policy.
SEc. 2481. Concealment. A failure to state a material fact, if not
done fraudulently, does not void; but the wilful concealment of such a
fact, which would enhance the ris:, will void the policy.
SEc. 2483. Wilful misrepresentation voids policy. Wilful misrepresentation by the assured, or his agent, as to the interest of the assured, or as to other insurance, or as to any other material inquiry
made, will void the policy.
SEc. 2499. Law of fire insurance applicable. The principles before
stated as to fire insurance, wherever applicable, are equally the law of
life insurance.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

how explicit the policy is, and this court in Jeffries v.
Economical Life Insurance Company, 22 Wall. 47, and
Aetna Life Insurance Company v. France, 91 U. S. 510,
held that the parties to the contract may make the inquiries and answers material and that therefore their
materiality is not open to be tried by a jury.
These cases recognize the right of the insurer and the
insured to make their own contract and determine for
themselves what representations shall be material.
How far has this'simple rule and the right of the parties
been changed by the Georgia Code? In German-American
Life Association v. Farley, 102 Georgia,'720, 733, it was
decided to be the established law of that State that mere
immaterial matters, though incorporated in an application
for insurance and declared to be warranties, do not avoid
the policy, and that this was so imperatively the law of the
State under the provisions of the Code that the parties
could not contract to make immaterial matter material.
The court, however, said: "Of course, what is in any
degree material should be allowed its due effect; but the
absolutely immaterial should count for nothing."
In Supreme Conclave v. Wood, 120 Georgia, 328, the
Code again came up for construction and the statements
of the insured were declared to be representations, not
warranties, and that it was the purpose of the Code to get
away from what the court denominated the "finer distinctions and strained constructions" of the cases. It
was therefore held that under the Code of the State "a
policy cannot now be avoided upon the ground of the
falsity of a representation, though warranted, unless that
representation be material and the variations from truth
be such as to change the nature, extent, or character of
the risk." But the court further held that if the representations have such variation, although the applicant
may have made them in good faith, not knowing that they
were untrue, if they were made the basis of the contract,

AETNA LIFE INS. CO. v. MOORE.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

such contract is void. "It is therefore immaterial,"
the court declared, "whether the warrantor acted in good
faith in making them."
The facts of the case were very much like those of the
case at bar. The applicant represented himself, in answer to a question, as not having heart disease. Of this
representation the court said that it 'was certainly a
material one, and doubtless the company acted upon it."
And further: "It is scarcely conceivable that the cowpany would have issued the policy if the applicant had
answered that he was or had been afflicted with heart
disease, or even if he had answered doubtfully. We
think that if the answer made was untrue, the plaintiff
below cannot recover."
The judgment in the case was reversed upon the ground,
among others not necessary to be considered, of error
in the instruction of the court "that if Wood had heart
disease and did not know it, the failure on his part to disclose it could not avoid the policy." There was dispute as
to the fact but the court did not pass upon it, remitting
it as a question for the jury to decide at the next trial.
In Southern Life Ins. (o. v. Wilkinson, 53 Georgia,
535, 549, 550, after commenting on the difference the cases
make between warranties and representations, the peremptory character of the former, their truth being the only
question, the effect of the latter being determined by their
materiality to the risk, the court said the Code of the State
determined the character of the statements. The court
quoted § 2479, which we have given, and § 2480, which
provides that "any verbal or written representation of
facts by the assured to induce the acceptance of the risk,
if material, must be true or the policy is void," and said
that "the proper construction is that if there be any
variation in them from what is true, whereby the nature
or extent or character of the risk is changed, the policy,
if it makes them the basis of the contract of insurance,

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

will be void, and that this will be so whether they are or
are not wilfully or fraudulently made.
It is, however, contended by respondent that the
questions asked in the application were truthfully answered, or, at any rate, whether they were truthfully
answered was a question for the jury. And it is insisted
that the answers of Salgue in regard to other insurance
and the action thereon by other companies were correct.
But granting that the truthfulness of the answers was a
question for the jury, the testimony was conflicting, and,
as the verdict was general, it is not possible to say what
view the jury took of the conflict, or that it was necessary
to resolve it in view of the charge of the court, or how they
would have resolved it if instructions requested by the
insurance company had been given.
We think there was error also in refusing other requests
for instructions. We have seen questions were addressed
to Salgue as to the names and residence of the physicians
he had employed or consulted, and whether any physician
had expressed an unfavorable opinion upon his life with
reference to life insurance, and also whether any proposal
or application to insure his life was pending in another
company or, if made, had not been granted. To the first
question he gave the name of only one physician. There
was testimony that he had consulted others. To the
second question he answered, "No." There was testimony
that the answer was untruthful. To the third question
he answered, "None." The truthfulness of the answer
is asserted notwithstanding it appeared from the testimony that he had made application to the Penn Mutual
Company, which application had not been granted. The
evidence was that the medical examiner had refused to
pass him because he was of opinion that he, Salgue, had
heart disease and so reported to the agent of the company.
The agent told Salgue if he, Salgue, would pay the doctor's
fee to the company he, the agent, would withdraw the

AETNA LIFE INS. CO. v. MOORE.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

application before it reached the company and that
Salgue "could answer in the future that he had never
been rejected by any company"; and the agent testified
"that it is customary entirely with agents to stop examinations that way."
It is contended by respondent that this testimony shows
that Salgue's application to the Penn Mutual was not
rejected but was withdrawn.; and, besides, whether it was
rejected or withdrawn was a question for the jury. We are
unable to concur with either contention. The question
was a very broad one. It was whether any proposal or
application had been made for which insurance had not
been granted, and particulars were asked for, "and the
names of all such companies, associations or agents."
Regarding the sense of the question-indeed, if not its
letter-the answer was untruthful. The question certainly called for something more than an absolute negative.
Its purpose was to ascertain the conduct of Salgue with
reference to life insurance in order to judge of him as a
risk. If it had been answered according to the facts, the
company wbuld have received information of circumstance certainly material for it to consider.
This conclusion is supported, as we have seen, by the
cited Georgia cases and is not opposed by Moulor v. American Life Insurance Company, 111 U. S. 335 or Phcmix
Mutual Life Insurance Co. v. Raddin, 120 U. S. 183. In
the Moulor Case it was held that the statements made by
an applicant would be considered as representations rather
than warranties, the policy leaving it in doubt which they
were contracted to be, and that they could not be considered either by the company or the applicant as covering
diseases which the latter was not conscious of having. It
was said that what the company desired of the applicant
was the utmost good faith toward it, "and make full,
direct, and honest answers to all questions, without evasion or fraud, and without suppression, misrepresentation

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.

Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

or concealment of facts with which the company ought
to be made acquainted; and that by so doing, and only
by so doing, would he be deemed to have made 'fair and
true answers.'
In Phoenix Life Insurance Company v. Raddin, there
is a clear definition of principles. Answers to questions
propounded to an applicant, it was held, will be considered
representations unless clearly intended by both parties
to be warranties, as to which substantial truth in everything material to the risk is all that is required of the applicant. And it was decided "whether there is other insurance on the same subject, and whether such insurance
has been applied for and refused, are material facts, at
least when statements regarding them are required by
the insurers as part of the basis of the contract.
Where an answer of the applicant to a direct question of
the insurers purports to be a complete answer to the
question, any substantial misstatement or omission in
the answer avoids a policy issued on the faith of the
application."
The medical examiner, as we have seen, put down the
answer "No" to the question asked Salgue as to whether
he had heart disease, after being informed by Salgue,
that he, Salgue, had been told by physicians that his heart
was affected. It appears from the evidence that the other
answers of Salgue in his application were written down by
the agent of the company; and there is testimony for and
against the fact that Salgue informed the agent of the
opinion entertained-of him by his physicians, and that he
also informed the agent of other applications for insurance.
It is hence contended that the agent, not Salgue, is responsible for the positive character of the answers and that
the insurance company is estopped by this action of the
4Lgent and by his knowledge of the actual conditions and
circumstances. It is, therefore, further contended that
the case comes within the principle of the cases which

AETNA LIFE INS. CO. v. MOORE.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

establish that where the agent of the company prepares
the application or makes representations to the insured
as to the character and effect of the statements of the
application he will be regarded in so doing as the agent
of the company, and not the agent of the insured. Among
the cases cited to sustain the principle are the following
in this court: Union Mutual Insurance Co. v. Wilkinson,
13 Wall. 222; American Life Insurance Co. v. Mahone,
21 Wall. 152; New Jersey Mutual Life Insurance Co. v.
Baker, 94 U. S. 610; Continental Life Insurance Co. v.
Chamberlain, 132 U. S. 304. German-American Life
Association v. Farley, supra, is also cited, and, being a
Georgia case, its authority is especially urged.
There are, however, later cases which enforce the provisions of a policy, and we have seen that it was agreed
in the policy under review "that no statement or declaration made to any agent, examiner or other person, and riot
contained in" the application, should "be taken or construed as having been made to or brought to the notice or
knowledge of" the company, "or as charging it with any
liability by reason thereof." And he, Salgue, expressed
his understanding to be that the company or one or more
of its executive officers, and no other person, could grant
insurance or make any agreement binding upon the company.
The competency of applicants for insurance to make
such agreements, and that they are binding when made,
is decided by Northern Assurance Co. v. Grand View Building Association, 183 U. S. 308; Northern Assurance Co. v.
Grand View Building Association, 203 U. S. 106; Penman
v. St. Paul Fire & Marine Insurance Co., 216 U. S. 311.
To the contention that German-American Life Association v. Farley, is determinative;, we answer that the principle which it is cited to support is one of general jurisprudence, and therefore the case is not controlling. Kuhn
v. Fairmont Coal Co., 215 U. S. 349.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

231 V. S.

This case was consolidated by the court, against the
objection of the insurance company, with the trial of the
case of the same plaintiff against the Prudential Insurance
C'ompany. This action of the court was based on § 921
of the Revised Statutes which provides that "causes of a
like nature or relative to the same questions" may be
consolidated "when it appears reasonable to do so."
The action of the court is assigned as error. We doubt if
it was reasonable to consolidate the cases. We need not,
however, pass definitely on that point, as we direct a new
trial on other grounds.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded to the District
Court for a new trial.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

dissents.

PRUDENTIAL
INSURANCE
COMPANY
AMERICA v. MOORE, ADMINISTRATOR
SALGUE.

OF
OF

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 47.

Argued November 6, 1913.-Decided December 22, 1913.

Aetna InsuranceCo. v. Moore, ante, p. 543; followed to effect that it was
error not to charge the jury that a statement made by.an applicant
for life insurance that he had never been rejected by any company,
association or agent after he had withdrawn an application on the
advice of the medical adviser with knowledge that the company
for whom the examination was made would reject him, is material
and untruthful.
Where the policy itself expressly provides that it cannot be varied by
anyone except an officer of the company issuing it, the company is

