OCTOBER TERM, 1913
Counsel for Appellees.

231 U. S.

CHAVEZ v. BERGERE.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF

NEW MEXICO.
No. 5.

Submitted October 30, 1913.--Decided December 8, 1913.

Although containing some words adapted to a present transfer, if the
instrument taken in its entirety shows that it was a mere contract
to convey upon a specified contingency it will be construed as such
and not as a conveyance. Williams v. Paine, 169 U. S. 55.
Where an alleged Mexican grant was rejected, one who was in possession under a contract to purchase the same if confirmed, and who
thereafter acquired portions thereof under the public land laws,
was not obliged to surrender such portions in order to recover what'
he had paid his vendor on account of the contract to purchase the
entire tract.
Possession by the vendee under an uncompleted contract to purchase
is not adverse to the vendor, nor does it become so until after unequivocal repudiation of the relation created by the contract.
Manifest intention of the parties must be given full effect; and so held
that approval by the Surveyor General of a Mexican grant referred
to the approval of the grant by the proper authority.
Where a contract to purchase under which the vendee is in possession
is terminated by an event which renders it impossible for the vendee
to complete, his continued possession thereafter is without right and
if he sets up an adverse right in himself demand for surrender is
not a prerequisite to maintenance of ejectment.
In ejectment, defendants who acquired possession as conditional
vendees of the plaintiff are estopped from calling in question the
title of the latter.
14 N. Mex. 352, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the construction of a contract
for sale of an unconfirmed Mexican grant, and the relative
rights of the parties thereto, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. A. B. Renehan for appellants.
Mr. T. B. Catron and Mr. R. C. Gortner for appellees.

CHAVEZ v. BERGERE.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of

the court.
This was an action in ejectment to recover the possession
of 317 acres of land in Santa Fe County, New Mexico.
The defenses interposed were the general issue and that
the cause of action did not accrue within ten years before
the action was begun. A trial to the court without a jury
resulted in a judgment fo:r the plaintiffs, which was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the Territory, 14 N. Mex.
352, and the case was then brought here. A statement of
the facts, in the nature of a special verdict, and of the
rulings and exceptions upon the rejection of certain evidence was made and certified by the appellate court agreeably to the act of April 7, 1874, 18 Stat. 27, c. 80, § 2.
Briefly stated, the principal facts are as' follows: On
June 22, 1878,, Manuel A. Otero and Jesus M. Sena y
Baca entered into an agreement written in Spanish a
translation of which is as follows:
"Know all men by these presents: That I, the undersigned, Manuel Antonio Otero, resident of the county of
Valencia, in the territory of New Mexico, for consideration, have sold and transferred in favor of Jesus M.
Sena y Baca and Agapita Ortiz, his wife, a ranch known
as the Ranch of Galisteo, which is situated in the county of
Santa Fe and Territory aforesaid, known as the ranch
which was formerly of the deceased Don Miguel E. Pino;
and that I will give and execute the documents of conveyance of said ranch in favor of Jesus M. Sena y Baca and
Agapita Ortiz, as soon as there shall be adjudicated and
approved by the Surveyor General the Grant of Bartolome
Baca of a tract which was ceded him by the Governor
Melgarez in the year 1819, and the which is situate in the
county of Valencia in the Territory of New Mexico,
aforesaid, and furthermore they will take possession of the
aforesaid ranch and will have and enjoy all the products

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

of the same until meanwhile the proper documents may
be executed, and in conformity with the above stated;
and the said Jesus M. Sena y Baca so agrees and has
signed here jointly with me.
"In Witness Whereof, we sign the present in La Constancia, County of Valencia, this 22nd day of June, A. D.
1878.
"MANUEL A. OTERO.
"JESUS M. SENA Y BACA."
At that time the Galiste ranch and the Bartolome
Baca tract were supposed or claimed to be unconfirmed
Mexican grants, the former of 24,000 acres and the latter
of a vastly greater area. Otero had some substantial right
in the former, and Sena y Baca was asserting an undivided. interest in the latter, as an heir of the original
grantee. As part of the transaction between them, Otero
was to receive, and a few days after the signing of the
agreement did receive, from Sena y Baca a deed for the
latter's asserted interest in the Bartolome Baca tract.
The alleged grant from Mexico of that tract was thereafter presented to the Surveyor General for New Mexico
for examination and report under § 8 of the act of July 22,
1854, 10 Stat. 308, c. 103. That officer, on September 7,
1881, made a report recomnending, upon the proofs then
before him, that the grant be not confirmed but rejected,
and this report was duly laid before Congress for such
action thereon as it should deem just and proper. While
the matter was awaiting action by Congress, the Court of
Private Land Claims was created by the act of March 3,
1891, 26 Stat. 854, c. 539, and was invested with jurisdiction of proceedings looking to the confirmation or rejection of such grants. The Bartolome Baca grant was then
appropriately brought before that court for consideration
and adjudication, and was confirmed to the extent of 11
square leagues; but in 1897, on an appeal to this court

CHAVEZ v. BERGERE.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the judgment of confirmation was reversed and the grant
rejected as invalid because resting upon a forged signature
of the Governor. United States v. Bergere, 168 U. S. 66.
In the meantime the Galisteo grant was presented to
the Court of Private Land Claims for consideration and
adjudication, and was by that court confirmed as a valid
grant for 317 acres, only, the confirmed area being the
land here in controversy.
The plaintiffs are heirs at law of Otero, who died in
1882, and the defendants are the successors in interest of
Sena y Baca and his wife under the agreement of 1878.
The mesne conveyances through which the defendants
became stich successors were quit-claim deeds, and were
accompanied by a delivery of the original agreement.
Sena y Baca and his wife went into possession of the
land in controversy under and pursuant to that agreement, and they and their successors continued in possession, farmed the land, made such improvements thereon
as were incidental merely to its use in that way, received
the rents and profits, paid some but not all of the taxes,
and exercised other possessory rights ordinarily incident
to ownership, but all consistent with the rights conferred
by the agreement of 1878.
In the proceeding in the Court of Private Land Claims
relating to the Galisteo grant, the successors of Sena y
Baca and his wife sought to secure a confirmation of the
grant for the full 24,000 acres theretofore claimed, and in
that c6nnection traced their right through the agreement
with Otero, thus recognizing his title.
The present action was begun April 3, 1901, without
any prior demand for the possession. At that time the
defendants were openly claiming full title in themselves,
notwithstanding the prior adjudication of the invalidity
of the Bartolome Baca grant and notwithstanding there
had been no conveyance by Otero or his heirs of the Galisteo grant as contemplated by the agreement.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

Other facts disclosed in the certified statement will be
noticed in connection with particular questions upon the
decision of which it is claimed they have a bearing.
The territorial courts held that the agreement of 1878
was not a conveyance, but an executory contract for a
conveyance in the event, and only in the event, of the
favorable adjudication and approval of the Bartolome
Baca grant; that this event became an impossible one
when, in 1897, this court rejected that grant as invalid;
that the defendants' rights under the agreement were
thereby terminated and extinguished; that the possession
of Sena y Baca and his wife, which was continued by their
successors, was acquired and held under the agreement
and in recognition of Otero's title, and therefore was
not adverse; and that upon all the facts the plaintiffs
were entitled to recover.
While it does not appear to be claimed that the question of title as between these litigants was adjudicated
by the Court of Private Land Claims in the Galisteo
case, it is well to observe that the act creating that court
and defining its jurisdiction declared in subdivision 5 of
§ 13: "No proceeding, decree, or act under this act shall
conclude or affect the private rights of persons asbetween
each other, all of which rights shall be reserved and saved
to the same effect as if this act had not been passed; but
the proceedings, decrees, and acts herein provided for
shall be conclusive of all rights as between the United
States and all persons claiming any interest or right in
such lands." See United States v. Conway, 175 U. S.
60, 71.
1. It is urged here that the agreement of 1878 in itself
transferred the title to the Galisteo grant from Otero to
Sena y Baca and his wife, and that the conveyance which
was to be executed upon the adjudication and approval
of the other grant was to operate only by way of a further
assurance. Like the territorial courts, we think other-

CHAVEZ v. BERGERE.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

wise. Although containing some words adapted to a
present transfer, the instrument, taken in its entirety,
shows that it was a mere contract to convey upon the contingency specified, with a provision investing the prospective vendees with the right of possession in the meantime.
Had a present conveyance been intended, the right to a
further assurance hardly would have been conditioned
upon a contingency in no wise bearing upon the adequacy
of the original conveyance,, and, equally, the provision
respecting the possession in the interim would have been
superfluous. Then, too, the informality of the instrument, the signing by both parties, and the absence of an
acknowledgment make against the claim of a conveyance
in prcesenti. Bearing in mind that the question is one of
intent, and judging of this by what appears upon the face
of the instrument, we think it clearly was designed to be a
contract to convey and not a conveyance. See Williams
v. Paine, 169 U. S. 55, 76.
2. In 1898 and 1899, after the Bartolome Baca grant
was adjudged invalid, the plaintiffs severally made application, under §§ 17 and 18 of the act of 1891, as amended
February 21, 1893, 27 Stat. 470, c. 149, and June 27,
1898, 30 Stat. 495, c. 504, for small-holding claims of
160 acres each within the limits of the rejected grant;
and upon the trial the defendants sought to make proof
of the advantageous sale or disposal of those claims. The
evidence was rejected, and this it is contended was prejudicial error because, first, what was done tended to
show that the plaintiffs treated the agreement of 1878 as
executed rather than executory, and, second, even if the
agreement was executory, the plaintiffs could not recover
in the action without first surrendering to the defendants
the advantages obtained through those claims. The contention is untenable. The right to those claims did not
arise out of the agreement of 1878 or out of the rejected
Bartolome Baca grant, but arose, if at all, because the

OCTOBER TERM, 191:3.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

plaintiffs were in possession and the United States permitted the acquisition of title to public land in New Mexico
in that way. The alleged Bartolome Baca grant being
out of the way, whether the plaintiffs secured title to the
160-acre tracts and what they did with them were matters
which did not concern the defendants.
3. Another contention is that the facts certified demonstrate that the defendants and their predecessors had
been in adverse possession for more than ten years when
the action was begun, and therefore that the defense of
the statute of limitations was well founded. In our opinion, the territorial courts rightly held otherwise. Sena y
Baca and his wife went into possession in virtue of a right
so to do which was expressly given by the agreement and
was to continue until the happening of the event whereby
their right to a conveyance was to be determined. Thus,
their possession was not hostile or adverse, but in subordination to the Otero title, and the possession of their
successors was plainly of the same character up to the
time of the determinative event. There had been no
unequivocal repudiation of the relation created by the
agreement, for all that was done was consistent with a
holding under it. Not until the conditional right to a
conveyance was terminated did the possession cease to be
a permissive one under the agreement, and that conditional right was not terminated until this court adjudged
the Bartolome Baca grant invalid and rejected it. That
was less than four years before the action was begun.
We do not overlook the reference in the agreement to
the Surveyor General as the one whose decision was to be
determinative, or his adverse report which preceded the
action by more than ten years. While the agreement
uses the words "shall be adjudicated and approved by
the Surveyor General," the naming of that officer evidently resulted from a misconception of his power and
duty. Under the act of 1854, in force at the time, he was

CHAVEZ -. BERGERE.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

not entrusted with power to adjudicate and approve
Mexican grants, but was required to examine into their
status and report thereon as a convenient means of aiding
Congress in determining what should be done. His action was merely advisory, the power to decide and to approve or reject being reserved to Congress. United States
v. Ortiz, 176 U. S. 422, 427. But notwithstanding the
mistake, the intention of the parties is manifest and full
effect should be given to it. To them the important thing
was the adjudication and approval of the Bartolome Baca
grant, and the particular governmental agency from which
such action should come was of secondary consideration.
They could make their future'acts and rights dependent
upon the former, as was done, but were without power to
designate the latter. Evidently they named the Surveyor General in the belief that the power to adjudicate
and approve had been lodged in him, their meaning being
the same as if they had said "shall be adjudicated and
approved by the proper authority." This, in our opinion,
is the true construction of the agreement. Of course, an
authorized adjudication and approval was contemplated,
not one that would be without authority and of no effect.
Being in the nature of a recommendation only, the
adverse report of the Surveyor General was not final and
bound no one. It did not even preclude him from making a further examination and basing a favorable report
thereon. United States v. Ortiz, supra. Had Congress
disapproved his adverse report and confirmed the grant,
we entertain no doubt that the confirmation would have
satisfied the condition of the agreement and have entitled Sena y Baca and his wife to the stipulated conveyance; and a like result would' have ensued had the decision
of this court been one of confirmation instead of rejection.
It follows that the relation created by the agreement
was not terminated by the Surveyor General's report in
1881, but continued until the adverse decision of this

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

23i U. S.

court in 1897, and that the possession in the interim, like
that before, was in virtue of the agreement and not adverse.
4. After the agreement was terminated by the adverse
decision upon the Bartolome Baca grant the continued
possession of the defendants was without right, and when
the action was begun, almost four years thereafter, they
were asserting full title in themselves. Therefore, a demand that they surrender the possession was not a prerequisite to the maintenance of the action.
5. We are asked to say that the findings do not show
title in the plaintiffs' ancestor, Manuel A. Otero, or, at
least, are so conflicting upon that point as to afford no
basis for the judgment. The findings to which attention
is invited may be summarized as follows: (a) At the date
of the agreement the title to the land in controversy was
in Otero; (b) as confirmed, the Galisteo grant consists
of the land in controversy, but prior to confirmation it
was claimed to embrace a much larger area; (c) Otero's
title to the grant was founded upon a conveyance in 1856
which excepted three designated parcels theretofore transferred to others; and (d) the plaintiffs' proofs did not
disclose whether. the land in controversy passed under
that conveyance or was within the excepted parcels.
While recognizing that these findings are confusing, if
not conflicting, we think the judgment is adequately sustained by other findings which show' that the'agreement
of 1878 did not contain the exceptions shown in the
conveyance of 1856; that Sena y Baca and his wife went
into possession of the land in controversy under that
agreement; and that the possession which passed from
them to their successors, including the defendants, was
likewise a possession in virtue of the agreement. In
short, the defendants acquired possession as conditional
vendees of Otero, and so are estopped from calling his
title in question. As is said in Tyler on Ejectment (p. 543):

CHAVEZ v. BERGERE.
231 U. S.

Opinion of 1he Court.

"There is a class, of cases in which the defendant is not
permitted to controvert the title of the claimants in an
action of ejectment on the ground of estoppel. These are
cases where a privity exists between the defendant and the
plaintiff, or those from whom he derives title. If a privity
in estate has subsisted between the parties, proof of title is
ordinarily unnecessary on the part of the plaintiff, for the
reason that a party is not permitted to dispute the title of
him by whom he has been let into possession. In all these
cases, therefore, the proof is directed to the question as to
whether such a relation exists between the parties as to
operate as an estoppel, and thereby supersede the necessity of introducing any evidence to establish the title of
the claimant."
And again (p. 559): "Although strictly speaking, the
relation of landlord and tenant is not created between
vendor and vendee; yet the vendee, in ejectment by the
owner against him, is absolutely estopped, from either
showing title in himself, or setting up an outstanding title
in another; and the same rule applies to one coming into
possession under the vendee, either with his consent, or as
an intruder."
Of like import are Lucas v. Brooks, 18 Wall. 436, 451;
Jackson v. Walker, 7 Cow. 637, 642; Towne v. Butterfield,
97 Massachusetts, 105; Lacy v. Johnson, 58 Wisconsin,
414, 423.

As we find no error in the record, the judgment is
Affirmed.

