PENNINGTON v. UNITED STATES.
231 U. S.

Counsel for the United States.

PENNINGTON v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 582.

Submitted December 15, 1913.-Decided January 5, 1914.

The proviso in the back pay and bounty provision in the Sundry Civil
Appropriation Act of March 4, 1907, c. 2918, 34 Stat. 1295, 1356,
directing accounting officers to follow decisions of this court and of
the Court of Claims without regard to former settlements, did not
confer a new cause of action upon the holders of other claims against
the United States which had beEn adversely ruled upon theretofore
and remove the bar of the statute of limitations from such claims.
The back pay and bounty provision in the Sundry Civil Appropriation
Act of 1907 related to certain enumerated claim§ and the proviso
also related exclusively to those claims and is not to be regarded as
independent legislation.
This court will not construe a provision in an appropriation act in
regard to an enumerated class of claims as expressing the intent of
Congress to unsettle past administrative action as to all claims
against the Government; such a radical intent would not be expressed in an obscure and uncertain manner.
Even though it may have become a modem, practice in Congress to
adopt independent legislation by attaching "riders" to appropriation
bills, the judiciary is not relieved from the old duty of correctly
interpreting the statute when enacted.
A claim of an officer of the United States for extra per diem rations
under the act of July 5, 1838, and which had been disallowed in 1890
by the accounting officers, was not reinstated by the proviso, in the
back pay and bounty provision of the Sundry Civil Appropriation
Act of March 4, 1907.
48 Ct. Cl. 408, affirmed.

THE facts, Which involve the construction of statutes
regulating pay and allowances of officers of the army of
the United States, are stated. in the opinion.
Mr. George A.

King, Mr. William B.

King and Mr.

William E. Harvey for appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Thompson for the United
States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.

By the judgment appealed from the court below dismissed the petition in which recovery was sought by the
appellant, of a stated sum charged to be due him because
of the extra per diem ration for each five years' service allowed by the act of July 5, 1838, § 15, 5 Stat. 256, 258,
c. 162, and the ten per centum increase of yearly pay
given for each term of five years' service by Rev. Stat.,
§1262. To develop the questions to be decided, we chronologically arrange the facts alleged and somewhat abbreviate their statement, omitting nothing however relevant
to the issues.
Stating the petitioner to be a Brigadier General on the
retired list, the petition alleged the period of his military
service from 1855, when he entered the Military Academy, up to and including 1899, when, as a Brigadier General, he was placed upon the retired list. The arms of the
military establishment in which the services of the petitioner were rendered, during the period stated, as well as

the various grades through which, by promotion, he
passed, were enumerated, the whole period embracing
service in the regular army except a brief time between the

first of October, 1864, and the first day of August, 1865,
when it was alleged he served as an officer of the volunteer
service. It was charged that,
"During the entire period of his service as second
lieutenant, first lieutenant and captain aforesaid, the

practice of the War Department and of the accounting
officers of the Treasury Department was not to count
service as a cadet in the United States Military Academy
in reckoning the term of five years of service for purposes
of the additional ration provided by the act of July 5,
1838, or for longevity increase of pay under § 1262 of the
Revised Statutes."

PENNINGTON v. UNITED STATES.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The following averments were then made:
"It was decided by the Supreme Court of the United
States on the twenty-seventh day of October, 1884, in the
case of United States v. M6rton, 112th Volume of United
States Reports, p. 3, and on the eleventh day of March,
1889, in the case of United States v. Watson, reported in
the 130th Volume of United. States Reports, p. 80, that officers of the United States Army were entitled, in computing their rations under said act of July 5, 1838, and in computing their longevity pay under See. 1262 of the Revised
Statutes, tb be credited with their service as cadets in the
United States Military Academy.
"Notwithstanding said decisions of the Supreme Court
of the United States, the Second Comptroller of the
Treasury, on June 20, 1890, decided that he would not
allow any claim for additional rations under Sec. 15 of
the act of July 5, 1838, aforesaid, and for increase of longevity pay under See. 1262; of the Revised Statutes on account of any service not theretofore admitted as forming
a proper subject of credit by the previous practice of the
Treasury Department as aforesaid."
Although the date when the claim was presented was
not stated, it was averred that "After the decisions of the
Supreme Court aforesaid in the Morton and Watson cases,
a claim was presented by this claimant to the Second
Auditor of the Treasury for additional rations and longevity pay due under the acts! aforesaid in accordance with
the decisions of the Supreme Court aforesaid, and said
claim was disallowed [on December 13, 1890,] by the
Second Auditor in accordance with the decision of the
Second Comptroller of the Treasury of June 20, 1890, as
hereinbefore set forth, and no consideration was given by
said Auditor to the inteipretation of said statutes made
by the Supreme Court in said cases."
It was alleged that on the fourth day of March 1907,
"a provision of law was passed by Congress as a portion

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

of the Annual Sundry Civil Appropriation Act, 34 Stat.
1295, 1356," which provision was quoted in full in the
petition. It was further alleged "that on the eighteenth
day of May, 1908, the Comptroller of the Treasury de"that in the future the decisions of
cided" . . .
the Supreme Court of the United States in the cases
aforesaid would be followed by the accounting officers
of the Treasury in claims for additional rations and
longevity pay aforesaid based upon service as a cadet at
the Military Academy of West Point, but it was decided
"the
by said Comptroller in various cases that" . . .
accounting officers of the Treasury would not reopen any
claim as aforesaid in which a settlement or adjudication
had once been made by their predecessors.'
Following the enactment by Congress of the provision
above referred to, it was averred:
"Your petitioner applied to the Auditor for the War
Department in July, 1909, for all arrears of pay then due
oti account of his service aforesaid, particularly for addi-tional rations and longevity pay on account of his service
aforesaid as a cadet in the Military Academy. The
Auditor for the War Department refused to consider said
claim because of the settlement aforesaid dated December 13, 1890, by the Second Auditor then in office, disallowing said claim."
Referring to the.provision in the Sundry Civil Appropriation Act of 1907, it was then alleged:
"Your petitioner respectfully represents that by said
provision of statute, there was granted to your petitioner
a right to be paid additional rations under said act of
1838, and additional longevity pay under said See. 1262
of the Revised Statutes for the reason that the decisions
of the Supreme Court of the United States and of the
Court of Claims of the United States aforesaid held that
such rations and longevity pay were due in a similar case,
and such decisions should have been followed by said

PENNINGTON v. UNITED STATES.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

accounting officers notwithstanding the former settlement
or adjudication by one of their predecessors as, aforesaid.
The refusal of the accounting officers of the Treasury
aforesaid to state a balance in favor of your petitioner on
account of the former settlement aforesaid, deprived your
petitioner of a right granted. under said act of Congress, for
which there is no remedy except by action in this court."
Plainly, under this pleading the only ground upon
which the right to a recovery was based was the provision
in the Sundry Civil Appropriation Act which was counted
upon as cbnferring a substantive new and independent
right. The text of the proviso upon which the case depends is this (34 Stat. 1356):
"Back pay and bounty: For payment of amounts for
arrears of pay of two and three-year volunteers, for bounty
to volunteers and their widows and legal heirs, for bounty
under the act of July twenty-eighth, eighteen hundred and
sixty-six, and for amounts for commutation of rations to
prisoners of war in rebel States, and to soldiers on furlough,
that may be certified to be due by the accounting officers
of the Treasury during the fiscal year nineteen hundred
and eight, $200,000; Provided, That in all- cases hereafter
so certified the said accounting officers shall, in stating
balances, follow the decisions of the United States Supreme Court or of the Court of Claims of the United
States after the time for appeal has expired, if no appeal
be taken, without regard to former settlements or adjudications by their predecessors."
The complaint that the court below held that this provision does not "include the claim of the appellant" is
the single matter assigned as error and what is urged to
be the correct meaning of the provision is thus stated in
argument:
"1. That the above proviso in the act of March 4,
1907, is an acknowledgment of the indebtedness of the
United States to all persons whose claims are therein de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

scribed and, as a new promise, takes their claims out of the
operation of the statute of limitations.
"2. That upon the refusal of the accounting officers to
allow a claim as directed by this proviso, an action may be
maintained upon the claim in the Court of Claims because
it is a claim 'founded upon . . . any law of Congress' (Judicial Code, Sec. 145, par. 1st)."
. It is apparent that the construction which the proposition affixes to the proviso does not confine its operation to
the character of claims here involved, but extends it so as
to embrace all claims of every nature if hereafter it be
asserted that a prior administrative determination against
the validity of the claim was reached without following
the decisions of this court or of the Court of Claims. The
foundation principle contended for by which the result
just stated is brought about is that by the effect of 'the
proviso, a new cause of action is conferred upon the holder
of every claim arising against the Government from its
foundation, however remote may have been the time when
an adverse ruling was made and however otherwise statutes of limitation would be applicable.
The arguments advanced to sustain the proposition
make it clear that such is its scope. For instance, it is
insisted that "Congress has by the proviso, enacted that
in all cases" "the administrative rule of res adjudicata
shall not prevail against a judicial decision," and that the
purpose of the provision was to remove the bar of all
statutes of limitations, as to every case to which the enactment relates. The extreme result of the proposition is
thus made apparent. That its assertion is not academic
becomes obvious when it is observed that maintaining it
is essential to meet the requirements of the case, since
without the asserted doctrine of new promise and the contention as to the removal of the bar of statutes of limitation
the claim sued on would not be justiciable, and could be
barred by limitations.

PENNINGTON v. UNITED STATES.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Coming to test the proposition by the text of the provision it is seen that it consists simply of an item in a general
appropriation act applying a designated sum to pay an
enumerated class of cases, of which this is not one, accompanied with a proviso concerning the steps to be taken to
ascertain and pay the claims appropriated for. This
makes it clear that the sole ground upon which the proposition rests, is a disregard of all that portion of the provision which precedes the word "provided," thus treating
the latter part of the wholE clause as distinct and independent legislation.
In other words, the only avenue of approach for the
proposition is through a gateway created by wrenching
the provision asunder. We are of opinion that this may
not be done. (White v. United States, 191 U. S. 545;
Georgia Banking Company v. Smith, 128 U. S. 174, 181.)
But it is insisted that the words following the word "provided" do not technically amount to a proviso and therefore the clause must be divided into two independent
parts consisting the one of that portion which goes before
the word "provided" and the other that portion which
follows it. And when this is done the argument is that
the word "all" in the latter portion renders it necessary to give to that portion the far-reaching significance
claimed. Conceding for argument's sake that the latter
part of the provision, that is, the portion which follows
the word "provided," may not be technically a proviso, nevertheless the fact that the two provisions are
united in enactment in one and the same clause giving no intrinsic manifestation of a legislative purpose
to separate them, causes the concession to be without
influence in determining the proper construction of the
provision. It is however, urged that at the time of the
enactment of the clause there were pending before Congress various bills concerning the action of the executive
departments in failing to apply the rulings of this court

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

as to longevity pay and therefore the provision must have
been intended to remedy the evil by the adoption of a
general provision accomplishing the results here claimed.
The premise, if conceded, serves to refute, instead of to
sustain the proposition based on it, for if it be that the
purpose of Congress was to unsettle the entire past administrative action as to all claims against the Government and to confuse the entire administration for the
future, it cannot be conceived that such a radical intent
would have been expressed in such an obscure and uncertain manner. And this leads us finally to examine the
contention that as in modern practice it has become
common to adopt independent legislation on appropriation bills by what is called a "rider," therefore the provision here involved should be treated as having that
character and be accordingly independently interpreted
as claimed. But whatever be the new habit, it can in no
respect serve to relieve the judiciary, when called upon to
consider a statute, of the old duty of correctly interpreting it. Indeed, the very suggestion of the practice of
"riders" admonishes that things may not be so associated
as one for the purpose of securing the enactment of
legislation upon the theory that they are one and when
enActed be disassociated for the purpose of judicial construction so as to cause them to be wholly independent
one of the other.
Affirmed.

