OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

231 U. S.

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA v. ANTIKAMNIA
CHEMICAL COMPANY.
ERROR TO AND APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 118.

Argued December 9, 1913.-Decided January 5, 1914.

Where the validity of regulations made by officers to whom power to
make them is delegated by the Food and Drugs Act of 1906 is denied,
an authority exercised under the United States is drawn in question,
and not merely the construction of the statute, and this court has
jurisdiction to review the judgment of the Court of Appeals of the
District of Columbia. Steinmetz v. Allen, 192 U. S. 543, followed, and
United Stats ex rel. Taylor v. Taft, 203 U. S. 461, distinguished.
In this case the question of authority of the officers to whom the
power to make regulations is delegated by the Food and Drugs Act is
substantial and not frivolous. United States v. Grmaud, 220 U. S.
506 distinguished.
The purpose of the Food and Drugs Act of 1906 is to secure purity of
food and drugs and to inform purchasers of what they are buying.
Its provisions are directed to that purpose and must be construed to
effect it.
The power given by § 3 of the Food and Drugs Act to the specified
heads of departments to make regulations is an administrative power
and not one to alter, or add to, the act, and the extent of the power
must be determined by the purpose of the act and the difficulties its
execution might encounter.
Regulation No. 28 for the enforcement of the Food and Drugs Act
requiring labels to state not only what drugs contain but also what
the contents are derivatives of, is within the delegated power of the
act and does not enlarge or alter its provisions.
It is a violation of the Food and Drugs Act of 1906 and of Regulation
No. 28 to label tablets as containing acetphenetidin without stating
that acetphenetidin is a derivative of acetanilid.
The Food and Drugs Act itself requires that not only primary substances be labelled but also their derivatives, and no regulations are
necessary to support this requirement.
The purpose of a statute is the -ever insistent consideration in its
interpretation, and this court will not attribute to a statute so

UNITED STATES v. ANTIKAMNIA CO.
231 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

important as the Food and Drugs Act the defect of ineffectiveness as
to its execution.
The fact that a statute has pensl character does not mean that it
should not be given its reasonable intendment.
37 App. D. C. 343, reversed.

THE facts, which involve f he construction of provisions
of the Food and Drugs Act of 1906 in regard to labelling

drugs, are stated in the opinion.
The Solicitor General, with whom former Solicitor General Lehmann and Mr. Karl W. Kirchwey were on the
brief, for the United States:
This court has jurisdiction. Smoot v. Heyl, 227 U. S.
518.
The regulation violated was within the power of the

Secretaries to make uniform rules and regulations, and
its violation constituted a misbranding within the meaning of the act.
Debates in Congress may be looked to in order to show

the evil which Congress sought to remedy. American
Twine Co. v. Worthington, 141 U. S. 468; Binns v. United
States, 194 U. S. 486; Blake v: National Banks, 23 Wall.
307; Holy Trinity Church v. "UnitedStates, 143 U. S. 457;
Jennison v. Kirk, 98 U. S. 453.
This court will recognize well-known scientific facts
upon which Congress acted. Austin v. Tennessee, 179

U. S. 343; Muller v. Oregon, 208 U. S. 412; Schollenberger
v. Pennsylvania, 171 U. S. 1.
Permitting name of derivative alone to be stated on
label would defeat purpose of act.
Reasonably construed, § 8 of the act requires a statement of the name of the parent substance; and the regulation to that effect was purely administrative.
The act is not penal for purposes of strict construction.
Cliquot's Champagne, 3 Wall. 114; 443 Cans of Egg Product,
226 U. S. 172; Hipolite Egg Co. v. United States, 220 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for the United States.

231 U. S.

45; N. Y., N. H. &c. R. R. v. nt. Com. Comm., 200 U. S.
361; Smythe v. Fiske, 23 Wall. 374; Taylor v. United States,
3 How. 197; United States v. Five Boxes of Asafoetida, 181
Fed. Rep. 561; United States v. Hodson, 10 Wall. 395;
United States v. Stowell, 113 U. S. 1.
Even penal statutes should be construed to effectuate
the legislative intent. Northern Securities Co. v. United
States, 193 U. S. 197; United States v. Harris, 177 U. S.
305; United States v. Lacher, 134 U. S. 624.
The only alternative is that § 8 was left incomplete and
the Secretaries were intended and authorized to fill in the
outline. Pickett v. United States, 216 U. S. 456; United
States v. Hartwell, 6 Wall. 385.
The power to make regulations having the force of law
may be conferred by general language. Bong y. Campbell
Art. Co., 214 U. S. 236; Buttfield v. Stranahan, 192 U. S.
470; Caha v. United States, 152 U. S. 211; Coopersville
Creamery Co. v. Lemon, 163 Fed. Rep. 145; In re Kollock,
165 U. S. 526; Roughton v. Knight, 219 U. S. 537; United
States v. Bailey, 9 Pet. 238; West v. Hitchcock, 205 U. S. 80.
The power delegated to the Secretaries was constitutional. Buttfield v. Stranahan, supra; Field v. Clark, 143
U. S. 649; In re Kollock, 165 U. S. 526; St. Louis & I.
M. Ry. v. Taylor, 210 U. S. 281; Union Bridge Co. v.
United States, 204 U. S. 364; United States v. Breen, 40
Fed. Rep. 402; United States v. Grimaud, 220 U. S. 506.
The statement on the label of each package that no
acetanilid was contained therein was false and misleading.
k statement may be misleading under § 8, although
literally true. Brina v. United States, i79 Fed. Rep. 373;
Frank v. United States, 192 Fed. Rep. 864; Schraubstadter
v. United States, 199 Fed. Rep. 568; United States v. Morgan, 181 Fed. Rep. 587; United States V. 100 Cases of
Apples, 179 Fed. Rep. 985; United States v. Scanlon, 180
Fed. Rep. 485; United States v. 75 Boxes of Pepper, 198

UNITED STATES v. ANTIKAMNIA CO.
231 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error and Appellee.

Fed. Rep. 934; United States v. Ten Barrels of Vinegar, 186
Fed. Rep. 399.
The statement was calculated to suggest that no derivative of acetanilid was contained in the tablets.
Section 8 was intended to cover just such deceptions as
to identity. United States v. Johnson, 221 U. S. 488.
Mr. D. W. Baker, with whom Mr. Joseph C. Sheehy,
Mr. Frank J. Hogan and Mr. Wilton J. Lambert were on
the brief, for defendant in error and appellee:
The libel fails to charge a misbranding of the article
therein within the meaning of the act of June 30, 1906.
The act gives neither authority nor power to the several
Secretaries to promulgate a regulation requiring the name
of the parent substance to be added.
The statement that no acetanilid is contained in the
drug is neither misleading nor false. In support of this
contention, see 44.3 Cases of Egg Product v. United States,
226 U. S. 172; United States v. Antikamnia Co., 37 App.
D. C. 343; Hipolite Egg Co. v. United States, 220 U. S. 45;
United States v. Johnson, 177 Fed. Rep. 313; Huntington v.
Attrill, 146 U. S. 667; Chouteau v. United States, 102 U. S.
603; Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 616; Coffey v. United
States, 116 U. S. 436; Lees v. United States, 150 U. S. 476;
Hepner v. United States, 213 U. S. 111; United States v.
Harris, 177 U. S. 305; United States v. Lacher, 134 U. S.
629; Northern Securities Co. v. United States, 193 U. S.
358; Todd v. United States, 158 U. S. 282; Fozer v. United
States, 52 Fed. Rep. 919; United States v. Traction Co., 34
App. D. C. 597; Morrill v. Jones, 106 U. S. 566; United
States v. 200 Barrels of Whiskey, 95 U. S. 751; United
States v. Three Barrels of Whiskey, 77 Fed. Rep. 965;
Taylor v. Kercheval, 82 Fed. Rep. 504; United States v.
Symonds, 120 U, S. 46; Williamson v. United States, 207
U. S. 425; Payne v. Railway Publishing Co., 20 App. D. C.
581; United States v. Eaton, 144 U. S. 677; United States v.
VOL. ccxxxi-42

658.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Defendant in Error and Appellee.

231 U. S.

Sandfuhr, 145 Fed. Rep. 49; United States v. Grimaud, 220
U. S. 506; Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 222 U. S. 77;
United States v. George, 228 U. S. 14; Brown v. Piper, 91
U. S. 37; Manufacturing Co. v. Adkins, 36 Fed. Rep. 554;
Engraving Co. v. Hoke, 30 Fed. Rep. 444; Lagler v. Bye,
42 Ind. App. 592; Diversey v. Smith, 103 Illinois, 390;
Commonwealth v. Crane, 158 Massachusetts, 219; State v.
Mann, 2 Oregon, 241;.Brown v. State, 131 Wisconsin, 543.
See page 3, Pharmacopoeia of the United States of
America, defining Acetanilid and Acetphenetidin, and
page 8, United States Dispensatory, giving uses and effects of Acetanilid and Acetphenetidin.
See also Report No. 301 of Senate Committee on Manufactures, 58th Cong., 2d Sess., Jan. 15, 1904, accompanying
Senate Bill 198, relating to "Adulteration of Foods, etc.,"
and containing statements of Dr. Wiley, of Department of
Agriculture, relative to phenacetine (Acetphenetidin) and
Acetanilide and hearings before Senate Committee, January 20, 1903, on H. R. 3109, being the Pure Food and
Drugs Act, containing statements relative to the use of
Acetanilid as an adulteration of or substitution for Acetphenetidin (Phenacetine).
An examination of 2350 judgments filed by the Agricultural Department up to February 1, 1913, shows
that in no case, except the instant case, does the libel,
indictment, or information charge a violation of a rule
or regulation of the Department.
In No. 438, The Ice Cream Case, United States v. Bishof,
there was charged a violation of the law and not any
regulation of the Department.
Regulations have been held valid not under the Pure
Food Act, but under act of Congress, March 3, 1903.
In Hurdle Brand Holland Gin, No. 807, the libel charged
a violation of the law and not of any regulation. The court
held the label was sufficient under the law.
The act of June 3, 1903, has been before the court on

UNITED STATES v. ANTIKAMNIA CO.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

various occasions, some of the decisions holding the power
given valid, others that it is void. See United States v.
Frank, 189 Fed. Rep. 195; United States v. St. Louis Coffee
Mills, 189 Fed. Rep. 191; Coopersville Creamery Co. v.
Lemon, 163 Fed. Rep. 145.
See also United States v. 11,150 Pounds of Butter, 195
Fed. Rep. 665, holding that the Secretary of the Treasury
cannot, by his regulations, alter or amend a revenue law.
All he can do is to regulate the mode of proceeding to
carry into effect what Congress has enacted. St. Louis
Bridge Co. v. United States, 188 Fed. Rep. 191.
The admission of the Solicitor General that there cannot be a prosecution with6ut this regulation is an admission that there cannot be an offense without this regulation, and therefore the regulation adds something to the
statute that is not there. McDermott v. Wisconsin, 228
U. S. 115, distinguished.
The regulations in no sense have the force of law; at
most they form a rule of conduct, which if not followed will
place a person in a position where the Secretary will order
the District Attorney to proceed under the law to prosecute
for a violation of the law.
MR. JusTcC, McKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
Libel for the seizure and condemnation of certain drugs
under the provisions of the act of Congress of June 30,
1906, commonly known as the Food and Drugs Act, c.
3915, 34 Stat. 768.
The libel alleges that the drugs are in the posse&ion and
custody of. The Wholesale Drug Exchange, a body corporate, at a numbered place in the City of Washington.
The drugs, it is alleged, ere intended to be used for the
cure and mitigation and prevention of diseases of man.
They are described as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

"Twenty packages, more or less, of said drug, labelled
and branded as follows: 'Antikamnia Tablets, Contain
305 grains of acetphenetidin, U. S. P. per ounce, Guaranteed by the Antikamnia Chemical Company, under the
Food and Drugs Act, June 30, 1906, U. S. Serial Number
10. The Antikamnia tablets in this original ounce package contain no acetanilid, antifebrin, antipyrin, morphine,
opium, codein, heroin, cocaine, alpha or beta eucaine,
arsenic, strychnine, chloroform, cannabis indica or chloral
hydrate, Antikamnia tablets five grains. One ounce Antikamnia Tablets. Manufactured in the United States of
America by the Antikamnia Chemical Co., St. Louis,
U. S. A.'
"Also seventy other packages, more or less, of said
drug, labelled and branded as follows: 'Antikamnia and
Codein Tablets. Contain 296 grains acetphenetidin,
U. S. P. per ounce. Contain 18 grains sulp. codein per
ounce. Guaranteed by the Antikamnia Chemical Company, under the Food and Drugs Act, June 30, 1906.
U. S. Serial Number 10. The Antikamnia and Codein
tablets in this original ounce package contain no acetanilid,
antifebrin, antipyrin, morphine, opium, heroin, cocaine,
alpha or beta eucaine, arsenic, strychnine, chloroform,
cannabis indica, or chloral hydrate. One ounce Antikamnia and Codein Tablets. Manufactured in the United
States of America by the Antikamnia Chemical Co., St.
Louis, U. S. A.'
"Also ten other packages, more or less, of said drug,
labelled and branded as follows: 'Antikamnia and Quinine
Tablets. Contain 165 grains acetphenetidin, U. S. P. per
ounce. Guaranteed by the Antikamnia Chemical Company under the Food and Drugs Act, June 30, 1906,
U. S. Serial Number 10. The Antikamnia and Quinine
Tablets in this original ounce package contain no acetanilid, antifebrin, antipyrin, morphine, opium, codein,
heroin, cocaine, alpha or beta eucaine, arsenic, strychnine,

UNITED STATES v. ANTIKAMNIA CO.
231 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

chloroform, cannabis indica, or chloral hydrate. One
ounce Antikamnia and Quiaine Tablets. Manufactured in
the United States of America by the Antikamnia Chemical
Co.,
St. Louis, U. S. A."'
The
ground of confiscation and condemnation alleged
is that all of the packages of the drugs contain a large
quantity and proportion of acetphenetidin, which, it is
alleged, is a derivative of acetanilid, and that under the
provisions of the act of Congress and of the regulations
lawfully made thereunder it is provided and required that
the label on each of the packages shall bear a statement
that the acetphenetidin contained therein is a derivative
of acetanilid; and yet, it is alleged that each and all of the
packages fail to comply with such provisions.
It is also alleged that the packages are further misbranded, in that the labels thereon are false and misleading,
for the reason that each and all of them bear the statement
that no acetanilid is contained therein, and that the statement imports and signifies that there is no quantity of any
derivative of acetanilid contained in the drug.
A warrant of arrest was issued upon which the marshal
duly made return that he had arrested twenty packages
of Antikamnia tablets, ten packages of Antikamnia
quinine tablets and sixty-three packages labeled "Antikamnia and Codein Tablets," and otherwise duly executed
the warrant.
The Antikamnia Chemical Company, appellee and
defendant in error, alleging itself to be the owner of the
drugs, petitioned to be made a defendant in the libel.
The petition was granted, and the company thereupon
filed the exceptions to the libel. The exceptions negative
in detail the charges of the libel and assert conformity in
the labelling of the packages to the act of Congress of
June 30, 1906, 34 Stat. 768, p. 770, quoting its eighth section as follows: ".

.

.

. or if the package fail to bear

a statement on the label of the quantity or proportion of

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

any alcohol, morphine, opium, cocaine, heroin, alpha or
beta eucaine, chloroform, cannabis indica, chloral hydrate, or acetanilid, or any derivative or preparation of
any such substances contained therein." And it is averred
that the act does not provide that there should be added
to any derivative of any of the substances contained
therein the name of the parent substance, and the act
cannot be added to or enlarged by requiring the company,
to add to the name of a known article, the fact that the
article is a derivative of any of the substances mentioned
in the act. It is averred, therefore, that the packages are
not misbranded and that the statement on the labels that
no acetanilid is contained therein is in no way false or
misleading because the libel does not allege that there is
acetanilid in the packages, and, therefore, the statement
instead of being false and misleading is, according to the
allegations of the libel, true.
The exceptions were sustained and the libel dismissed.
It was stipulated that Food Inspection Decision No. 112,
i3sued January,27, 1910 by the United States Department
of Agriculture was considered by the court upon the hearing of the cause and should be included in and be considered part of the record on appeal.
The decision quotes § 8 of the act, states that the
Attorney General, in an opinion rendered January 15,
1909, held that a derivative is a substance so related to
one of the specified substances "that it would be rightly
regarded by recognized authorities in chemistry as obtained from the latter 'by actual.or theoretical substitution,' and it is not indispensable that it should be actually
produced therefrom as a matter of fact;" further that the
labelling of derivatives, as prescribed by § 8, is a proper
subject conferred upon the Department by § 3, and that a
rule or regulation requiring the name of the specified
substance to follow that of the derivative would be in
harmony with the general purpose of the act, and an

UNITED STATES v. ANTIKAMNIA CO.
231 U. S.

'Opinion of the Court.

appropriate method by which to give effect to its provisions.
In conformity to this opinion, Regulation 28 of the
Rules and Regulations for the enforcement of the Food and
Drugs Act was amended as follows:

"

.

Acetani-

lide (antifebrine, phenylacetamide). Derivatives-Acetphenetidine, .
(g) In declaring the quantity or
proportion of any of the specified substances the names
by which they are designated in the act shall be used, and
in declaring the quantity or proportion of the derivatives
of any of the specified substances, in addition to the trade
name of the derivative, the name of the specified substance shall also be stated, so as to indicate clearly that
the product is a derivative of the particular specified
substance."
The decree of the Supreme Court of the District dismissing the libel was affirmed by the Court of Appeals.
The case is not in very broad compass, though the
arguments of counsel are somewhat elaborate. The libel
is prosecuted for the condemnation of one hundred packages of Antikamnia tablets as being misbranded in violation of the Food and Drugs Act of June 30, 1906, c. 3915,
34 Stat. 768. The tablets contain acetphenetidin and the
labels so state, and the proportion of the substance. It is
a derivative of acetanilid, but the labels do not so state
but do state that the tablets contain no acetanilid. And
these omissions, it is contended by the Government, constitute a violation of the statute and of Regulation No. 28
as amended. The chemical company contends that the
first statement is not required by the law and that the
second statement is true, and therefore cannot be false
or misleading.
Preceding the discussion of these contentions a question
of jurisdiction is presented by the chemical company and
a motion to dismiss is made on the ground that only the
construction of the statute is involved in the decision of

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

the court below. The company also moves for an affirmance of the judgment on the ground that the appeal is,
frivolous. Contra the Government contends that the
Court of Appeals held invalid the regulation requiring
the name of the primary substance as well as that of the
derivative to be stated on the label; and that there is not
only drawn in question, but so far denied, an authority
exercised under the United States. We concur in this
view. The validity of the regulation was and is denied.
Its validity may, indeed, rest on the statute, but so did the
validity of the rule of the Patent Office passed on in
Steinmetz v. Allen, 192 U. S. 543. We there said (p. 556)
of a rule of practice established by the Commissioner of
Patents under a section of the Revised Statutes, "It
thereby became a rule of procedure and constituted, in
part, the powers of the primary examiner and Commissioner. In other words, it became an authority to those
officers, and, necessarily, an authority 'under the United
States.' Its validity was and is assailed by the plaintiff in
error. We think, therefore, we have jurisdiction, and the
motion to dismiss is denied." United States ex rel. Taylor
v. Taft, Secretary of War, 203 U. S. 461, is not in antagonism to this ruling. In that case the relator was dismissed
from the public service by an order of the Secretary of
War as representative of the President. She sought
restoration by mandamus. It was denied and she brought
the case to this court on the ground that the yalidity
of an authority exercised under the United States was
drawn in question. Dismissing the case, this court said
that as she did not question the authority of the President or his representative to dismiss her but contended
only that certain rules and regulations of the civil service
had not been obseryed, the validity of an authority exercised under the United States was not drawn in question
but only the construction and application of regulations of
the exercise of such authority. On p. 465 it was said

UNITED STATES v. ANTIKAMNIA CO.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Steinmetz v. Allen was not to be contrary, "for there the
validity of a rule constituting the authority of certain
officers in the Patent Office was drawn in question."
Motion to dismiss is denied.
Joined with the motion to dismiss, we have seen, was a
motion to affirm on the ground that the question of the
authority of the Secretaries to make the regulation is
frivolous in view of the decisions in United States v.
Grimaud, 220 U. S. 506; Williamson v. United States, 207
U. S. 425 and other cases. How far this contention is
tenable will be developed as we proceed with the consideration of the act and the power of the Secretaries under it.
The purpose of the act is to secure the purity of food and
drugs and to inform purchasers of what they are buying.
Its provisions are directed to that purpose and must be
construed to effect it.
Section 3, 34 Stat. 768, gives the Secretary of the
Treasury, the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary
of Commerce and Labor, power to "make uniform rules
and regulations for carrying out the provisions" of the
act and the power to collect specimens of foods and drugs
offered in interstate and foreign commerce. It adopts the
definitions of the United States Pharmacopoeia or Xational Formulary and provides (§ 8, 34 Stat., p. 770) that
the term "misbranded" as used in the act "shall apply
to all drugs

.

.

.

the package or label of which shall

bear any statement, desigm or device regarding such
article, or the ingredients or substances contained therein
which shall be false or misleading in any particular."
And, further, in case of drugs, an article shall be deemed
to be misbranded "if the package fail to bear a statement
on the label of the quantity or proportion" of certain
enumerated substances "or acetanilid, or any derivative
or preparation of any such substances contained therein."
These are the applicatory provisions. How are they
to be construed?

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

First, as to the power of the Secretaries. It is undoubtedly one of regulation only-an administrative power
only-not a power to alter or add to the act. The extent
of the power however, must be determined.by the purpose
of the act and the difficulties its execution might encounter.
The fact that a council of three Secretaries of governmental departments was given power to make the rules
and regulations for the execution of the law shows how
complex the matters dealt with were considered to be, and
the care that was necessary to be taken to guard against
their defeat or perversion., The composition of drugs is
a matter of technical skill, their denomination often by
words of scholastic origin, conveying no meaning to the
uninformed, their uses and abuses learned only by experience, beneficial or evil. It was this experience that
the law sought to avail itself of and to avail itself against
the ever increasing powers of the laboratory or the disguises of a technical nomenclature. Hence the provision
of the law that the term "drug" as used in the act shall
include all medicines and preparations recognized in the
United States Pharmacopoeia or National Formulary for
internal or external use, and hence also the provision that
a drug or food product is misbranded in case it fails to
bear a statement on the label of the quantity or proportion of certain enumerated substances, including acetanilid, "or any derivative or preparation of any such substance contained therein." Experience had demonstrated
the quality of those substances, their effects had become
common knowledge; their names, therefore, were all the
warning it was necessary for the law to give. But derivatives of them might, probably would, be of their quality,
so derivatives of them were to be guarded against, and
the law hence further provided that the labels on them
should state the "quantity or proportion" of "any derivative or preparation" of them. This much is clear-there
is no obscurity in the words and purpose of the law. The

UNITED STATES ,,. ANTIKAMNIA CO.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

query then occurs, such being the words and purpose, if
the quantity or proportion of the substances or any
derivative or preparation of them must be stated, is it
administrative of the law or additive to it to require by
regulation that not only the name of the derivative or
preparation be stated but from what substance derived or
of what it is a preparation? It certainly cannot be said
that the purpose of the law is not exactly fulfilled by the
regulation. If it fulfills the :purpose of the law it cannot be
said to be an addition to the law, unless, indeed, it can
be contended that the law provided a means for its defeat by the easy device of mysterious names. There is
illustration in the present case. What information does
the use of the word "acetphenetidin" convey to anybody
of its good or evil origin? If it be said that the like question may be asked of any of the primary substances, we
reply that they are the precautions of the law and adopted
as such because they had demonstrated themselves, the
value of their use, the detriment of their abuse, and it was
believed that their names would carry no deception.
But let us turn from the power of the Secretaries to the
law itself and inquire if it needs the assistance of a regulation. It is the contention of the Government that it does
not, that its requirement that the primary substances
should be labelled and that their derivatives should be
labelled means, necessarily, that it should be stated of
what they are the derivatives to make the warning of the
labels complete. A great deal of what we have said in
discussing the power of the Secretaries applies to this
contention and supports it. The purpose of the law is the
ever insistent consideration in its interpretation. The
purpose is to prevent the surreptitious sale of certain
noxious drugs or their derivatives, the latter. supposedly
partaking of the quality of parent article and as effective
of evil consequences. This being the purpose, did the
law leave it unexecuted? We cannot attribute to it such

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

defect, and a serious defect it might be. Nor can we consider as a case of omission that which involves so definitely
the mischief which was intended to be redressed and
which is fairly within the language of the law. And we
say this without regard to the various illustrations contained in the Government's brief of the deceptions which
can be practiced by using the name of the derivative
alone, for the chemical company insists that we may
not, in the absence of allegations and proof, look for
knowledge in the encyclopedias, or medical lexicons or to
trade practices for trade disguises, actual or possible. It
is not necessary to enter upon the challenged ground.
The law furnishes its own tests of what the labels should
reveal, and we may grant, for the argument's sake, as contended, that it has penal character; but this does not mean
that it should not be given its reasonable intendment.
There is no hardship in this either to the manufacturer or
the seller of drugs. They surely know what they make
or vend-know whether it is primary or of what a dervative-and the law requires only that they put their knowledge on the labels for the information of purchasers. No
serious burden is thereby imposed on honest business.
Indeed, it makes the label on the packages an assurance
as well as a warning and benefits all concerned, manufacturer, seller and purchaser. And this is the interest of
the public health.
Decree reversed and cause remanded with direction to reverse the decree of the Supreme Court and remand the
cause with direction to overrule the exceptions to the libel.

