NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. CO. v. HOUSTON.
231 U. S.

181

Statement of the Case.

owner. He not only had a duly recorded public document
in his favor, but he had begun a suit similar to the present
one and this course of aclion was inconsistent with the
possession by anyone else.
"The appellant complains that the court erred in not
permitting him to show that the conveyance made from
Torres Zayas to Alvarado was fictitious or simulated and
that the real party in interest was always Torres Zayas.
We cannot see that the court committed an error in
refusing to admit such testimony; at most Alvarado would
have to be considered as the agent or representative of
Torres Zayas and the maxim quifacit per aliumfacit per se
may be held to apply. The registry system in Porto Rico
exists to apprise purchasers and others who are the true
owners of property, and if a man after treating with the
apparent owner, may still 'have his title impugned by a
secret agreement existing between such record owner and
the alleged true owner there would be no security in the
acquisition of property."

Afrmed.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v.
HOUSTON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MINNESOTA.
No. 57.

Submitted November 11, 1913.-Decided December 1, 1913.

Decided on the authority of Northern Pacific Railway Company v.
.Wass, 219 U. S. 426.
109 Minnesota, 273, reversed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

182

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

Mr. Charles W. Bunn for plaintiff in error.
There was no appearance or brief filed for defendant
in error.
Memorandum opinion by MR.CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE,
by direction of the court.
In Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Wass, 104 Minnesota, 411,
it was decided that lands claimed under an indemnity
grant, and described in lists of indemnity selections filed
in the appropriate United States Land Office and which
were rightfully pending for action by the proper officer
were nevertheless subject to entry by others to the destruction of the right to select and to the frustration of the
governmental power to approve the selections and award
the land under the granting law. The judgment below
which is now under review, was expressly rested by the
court on the ruling in the Wass Case. Houston v. Northern
Pacific Ry., 109 Minnesota, 273. The identity between
the controversies here presented and the one which was
passed on in the Wass Case is additionally shown by the
fact that it is stated in the printed argument on behalf of
the railroad company, the plaintiff in error, there being
no argument on behalf of the defendant in error, that
the land involved in this case was covered by selections
made at the same time the selections which were involved
in the Wass Case-were made, and were embraced in the
identical lists which were the subject of contest in that
case. But since this case was decided by the court below,
its ruling in the Wass Case was reviewed by this court and
it was reversed, thereby destroying the only foundation
upon which the judgment in this case could possibly rest.
Northern PacificRailway Company v. Wass, 219 U. S. 426.
It follows for the reasons stated in the Wass Case, and upon
the authority of that case, the judgment below must be

UNITED STATES v. DAVIS.
231 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

reversed and the case be remanded to the court below
for further proceedings not inconsistent with the opinion
in the Wass Case and the action which we now take in
applying the decision in that case.

Reversed.

UNITED STATES v. DAVIS.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

No. 395.

Arguied October 17, 1913.-Decided December 1, 1913.

On a direct appeal from an order quashing an indictment this court
assumes the correctness of the meaning affixed to the indictment by
the court below and determines only whether the statute was correctly construed.
Section 29 of the Penal Code is practically a reproduction of § 5421,
Rev. Stat., which in turn represents § 1 of the act of March 3, 1823,
c. 38, 3 Stat. 771, and this court follows the construction already
given by this court to the last named statute to the effect that it
embraces fraudulent documents as well as those that are forged or
counterfeited. United States v. .Staats, 8 How. 41.
The enumeration of certain classes of forged and false documents in
§ 5421, Rev. Stat., does not exclude other fraudulent documents
which might be used to perpetrate the wrong which it is the purpose
of the statute to prevent.

THE facts, which involve the construction of §§ 28 and
29 of the Penal Code (§§ 5421 and 5479, Rev. Stat.), are
stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Knaebel for the United
States:
The false writings intended

by the third clause of § 5421.,

