OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

231 U. S.

ment seems to urge that he was in fault for not contesting
the charges and by not doing so took all chances of the
change of the law, and that besides, it is urged, he received
no greater sentence than must have been imposed on a
conviction of one crime only, as the minimum sentence
under § 5209 is five years. It is contended that the principle that one good count will support a judgment is applicable. But this overlooks the right of petitioner to have
defended against the indictment, the right which, we repeat, he did not lose by pleading its defects under the then
existing law.
It is contended by petitioner that the trial court in imposing sentence and judgment upon him denied him the
constitutional right of trial by jury, and that, the offenses
charged against him being felonies, he was without power
to waive a jury trial. Of this contention, we are not required to express opinion, having found the indictment
against him insufficient.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded to the District
Court for the District of Alaska, Division No. 1, with
directions to sustain the demurrer to the indictment.

ALZUA v. JOHNSON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
No. 306.

Motion to affirm submitted October 27, 1913.-Decided
November 10, 1913.

This court is slow to revise the judgment of the highest court of a
Territory on matters of local administration.
Judges of United States courts are not liable to civil actions for their
judicial acts. Bradley,v. Fisher, 13 Wall. 335.
The principle of immunity of judges from civil action for their official
acts is so deep seated in the system of American jurisprudence that
this court will regard it having been carried into the Philippine Islands as soon as the American courts were established therein.

ALZUA v. JOHNSON.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The immunity of judges of the Supreme Court of the Philippine
Islands from civil actions for official acts is the same as that of
judges of the United States.
Act No. 190 of the Philippine Commission did not impose any liability
to civil actions for official acts on any judge of the Supreme Court
of the Philippine Islands; that act related only to inferior judges.
A statute, such as that involved in this case, providing that no judge
shall be liable to civil action for official acts done in good faith, will
not be gonstrued as rendering such judges liable to civil action for
acts done in bad faith by implication.
Qure whether the Philippine Commission has power to enact legislation making any judge liable to civil action for official acts.
21 Philippine Reports, 308, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Evans Browne, Mr. A. B. Browne, Mr. Alexander
Britton and Mr. W. A. Kinwaid for defendant in error, in
support of the motion.
Mr. Harry W. Van Dyke, Mr. Charles A. Douglas, Mr.
Thomas Ruffin and Mr. Hugh H. Obear for plaintiffs in
error, in opposition thereto.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit brought by the plaintiffs in error against a
justice of the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands. Its
allegations much abridged are as, follows: The plaintiff
Alzua had a judgment, in Cause No. 3274, declared to be
a first lien upon two stores, among other things, of Martinez, widow of Soler, and Riu, the judgment debtors; the
sheriff levied; two Solers, sons of Martinez, demanded
that the sheriff dismiss the levy as they were owners of the
stock levied upon; the plaintiff Alzua gave the sheriff a
bond, on October 14, 1905, and thereupon the sheriff proceeded to advertise and sell the property concerned. On
the same October 14 the above mentioned Solers brought

OCTOBER TERMI,

1913.

Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

suit (No. 4017) against the sheriff and the present plaintiff,
Alzua, alleging that the Solers owned and were entitled to
possession of the property and praying for an injunction
and damages. The trial court decided for the sheriff and
Alzua and the Solers appealed to the Supreme Court. On
March 27, 1907, that court including the defendant affirmed the decision, postponing a statement of the grounds,
and ordered judgment in twenty days and a return of the
record ten days thereafter. The term ended on March 31.
In vacation, on April 8, the defendant without consulting
the other judges changed the judgment of affirmance to
one of reversal and gave orders accordingly, so that on
July 29 the record was returned to the court below with
judgment reversed. The defendant then prepared a decision, filed September 14, which was signed by five justices including the defendant, and with intent to injure
Alzua falsely stated therein that the Solers were preferred
creditors-of Martinez and Riu, well knowing that they
alleged themselves to be owners and that Martinez and
Riu were not parties to the suit and could not be bound by
the decision. No final judgment has been rendered in the'
cause.
On August 22, 1907, the Solers brought another suit
(No. 5719), against the sheriff, Alzua, her husband and
the other obligors on the bond given to the sheriff, to
which Martinez and Riu afterwards were made parties,
alleging that the Solers had a preferred credit in the previously mentioned property. On November 29, the court
dismissed the suit as to all but Martinez who confessed
liability, and entered judgment against her. The Solers
appealed to the Supreme Court and the case was submitted to six judges including the defendant. The defendant prepared a decision and with intent to injure the
plaintiff set forth further false statements, viz: that in the
demand on the sheriff that he dismiss the levy, the guardian ad litem of the Solers alleged that their claim was a

ALZUA v. JOHNSON.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

preferred claim, whereas they claimed as owners and
partners; that the Supreme Court had decided in the
former suit, No. 4017, that the Solers had a preferred
credit for P. 9868.29, whereas the defendant knew that the
decision in 4017 had not been pleaded or put in evidence;
that the cause No. 5719 was brought upon the bond for
the above sum together with damages, &c. P. 11068; the
defendant knowing that the sheriff, acting sheriff, Martinez, and Riu were also defendants and that the first
named sum alone was in issue and no damages proved;
that the cause No. 5719 was instituted on October 1, 1907,
well knowing that it was begun on August 22, before, not
after the last decision (of September 14), in the former
case; that the record in No. 5719 shows that the bond was
given to the sheriff after the issue of an injunction in
No. 4017, whereas it does not; and finally that the sureties
on the bond had bound themselves thereby to respond to
the Solers for the amount of the claim that the Solers had
against Martinez and Riu, whereas the bond was given to
the Sheriff and the Solers were not parties to it.
The declaration goes on to allege that with the same
intent the defendant did not discuss the actual questions
or evidence; that he obtained the signatures of the other
judges upon his representation that the decision set forth
an impartial and fair statement of the case, he knowing
the contrary; and further that Justice Elliott who sat
at the hearing did not sign the decision and was not informed of it. It further alleges that defendant omitted
the names of Martinez and Riu and directed the clerk to
enter judgment against the other defendants only, knowing who were parties and what had been the judgment
below. Thereafter on February 8, 1910, pursuant to the
decision and defendant's orders, judgment was entered
against Alzua and three others for P. 11068 with interest,
on the ground that the Solers were creditors of Martinez
and Riu and preferred to Alzua; although, it is said, Mar-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

tinez and Riu were absolved by the judgment. Averments
are reiterated that the defendant performed all the acts
alleged in relation to Nos. 4017 and 5719 wrongfully with
intent to injure the plaintiff with knowledge of the facts

set forth and that such knowledge appears from inspection
of the decisions in Nos. 4017 and 5719. Execution issued
and the present. plaintiffs paid the judgment in 5719, but
to do so had to sell their property at a great sacrifice. The
plaintiffs therefore seek judgment for the actual value of
the property sold, the income that would have been realized, and punitive damages; P. 115000 in all. A demurrer
to the declaration was sustained by both courts below, and
the plaintiffs being unable to better their case by amend-

ment, judgment was entered and the complaint dismissed.
Abridged once more this complaint is that the defendant
without jurisdiction entered a judgment against the plaintiff contrary to an order of the full court, and in the opinion by which the full court ratified the change made a false
statement of fact; that in the opinion of the full court in a
second suit he inserted various false statements, including
one attributing to the first judgment an effect that it
could not have in the circumstances, all with full knowledge and intent to injure the plaintiff, which knowledge
appears from inspection of the opinions, and that the
plaintiff had to pay the second judgment at a sacrifice.
It is apparent that there are other difficulties. beside
the immunity of the judge in the way of such a suit. In
the first place the Supreme Court of the Philippines decides that the judge had jurisdiction to make the changea matter of local administration on which we should be
very slow to revise the judgment. Gray v. Taylor, 227
U. S. 51, 57; Fox v. Haarstick, 156 U. S. 674, 679. Next,
the judges, on inspection of the opinions and records
which they regard as incorporated in the complaint and
for which they were responsible by their assent, are of
opinion that the statements in the former opinions were

ALZUA v. JOHNSON.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

correct and that the decisions were right, and of course
reject the suggestion that they were deceived when they
rendered the judgments. :It might be added that the
complaint hardly makes it clear that any of the alleged
misstatements, some of which at least were irrelevant to
the result, were the deterinhning causes of the judgment of
which the plaintiff complains.
But however it may be as to the matters that we have
stated, we regard it as fundamental that the immunity of
the defendant from this suit is the same as that of judges
in the United States, which is established beyond dispute.
Bradley v. Fisher, 13 Wall. 335; Randall v. Brigham, 7

Wall. 523. Whatever may have been the Spanish law
this is a principle so deep seated in our system that we
should regard it as carried into the Philippines by implication as soon as we established courts in those islands.
Vol. I, Acts of Philippine Commission Nos. 136, 222,
pp. 252, 556. Act of Congress of July 1, 1902, c. 1369,
§§ 1, 5, 32 Stat. 691, 692. Reasons somewhat analogous
to those adverted to in Carrington v. United States, 208

U. S. 1, 7, make the rule perhaps more important in the
Philippines than it is here. It is true that in Act No. 190,
§ 9, of the Philippine Commission (1901), it is provided
that "no judge, justice of the peace or assessor shall be
liable to a civil action for the recovery of damages by
reason of any judicial action or judgment rendered by him
in good faith, and within the limits of his legal powers and
jurisdiction," and it is argued that this imports that any
judge shall be liable for a judgment rendered in bad faith.
But without considering the question of power, we are of
opinion for the reasons to which we have referred that this

should not be construed to convey such an implication,
at least as to judges of the Supreme Court. The section
is shown to have had in mind inferior judges and the like
by its mention of justices of the peace and assessors as to
whom a different rule has been held to prevail.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Petitioners.

231 U. S.

We think it manifest that the question on which the
decision of this cause depends needs no further argument
and that the judgment should be affirmed.
Judgment affirmed.

MISSOURI, KANSAS & TEXAS RAILWAY COMPANY OF TEXAS v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT -OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 439.

Submitted October 24, 1913.-Decided November 10, 1913.

Under the Hours of Service Act of March 4, 907, c. 2939, 34 Stat.
1415, when several employ6s are kept on duty beyond the specified
time of sixteen hours, a separate penalty is incurred for the detention
of each employ6 although by reason of the same delay of a train.
Each overworked railroad employd presents towards the public a distinct source of danger,
The wrongful act under the statute is not the delay of the train but the
retention of the employA; and the principle that under one act having several consequences which the law seeks to prevent there is but
one liability attached thereto does not apply.
An employ6, who is waiting for the train to move and liable to be
called and who is not permitted to go away, is on duty under the
Hours of Service Act.
The penalty under the Hours of Service Act, not being in the nature
of compensation to the employ6 but punitive and measured by the
harm done, is to be determined by the judge and not by the jury.
THE facts, which involve the construction of the Hours
of Service of Railway Employ~s Act, are stated in the
opinion.

Mr. Joseph M. Bryson, Mr. Cecil H. Smith, Mr. Alex-

ander S. Coke, Mr. A. H. McKnight for petitioners:

