KINDER v. SCHARFF.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

231 U. S.

reconsideration of the findings of fact. Probably a hope
of securing such a reconsideration was one of the inducements toward bringing the case here.
A subordinate question was raised on the exclusion of
some of the bankrupt's books, as to which it seems to us
enough to say that it does not appear that any wrong has
been done.
Decree affirmed.

KINDERI v. SCHARFF.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
LOUISIANA.

No. 99.

Argued December 4, 5: 1913.-Decided December 15, 1913.

After the estate has been closed and the two year period prescribed by
§ lid of the Bankruptcy Act has run, the proceeding cannot be
reopened on ex parte statements to enable the trustee to attack on
the ground of fraud a sale made by the bankrupt, where, as in this
case, the trustee had the opportunity of commencing an action for
that purpose before the expiration of the period.
The Bankruptcy Court cannot under § 2 (8) remove the bar of § lid
at its own will simply because the trustee may have changed his
mind and wishes to institute a suit which he might have instituted
prior to the operation of § lid.
129 Louisiana, 218, affirmed.

facts, which involve the construction and application of the limitation prescribed by § lid of the Bankruptcy Act of 1808, are stated in the opinion.
THE

Mr. Hannis Taylor and Mr. A. P. Pujo, with whom
Mr. L. A. Goudeau and Mr. W. B. Williamson were on the
brief, for plaintiff in error:

I Original

Docket title, Collins, Trustee, v. Scharff.

OQTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

231 U. S.

Section lid of 'the Bankrupt Act, as amended, is a
statute of limitation, and when pleaded as a bar to a suit,
to set aside an alleged fraudulent sale, must be construed
and applied as other statutes of limitation. Bailey v.
Glover, 21 Wall. 342, 350.

Where fraud is the foundation of the action, the limitation of two years, under the Bankrupt Act, does not
begin to run, in the absence of negligence or laches of the
plaintiff, until the discovery of the fraud. Traer v. Clews,
115 U. S. 528, 542.
In suits in equity, where relief is sought on the ground
of fraud, and the party injured remained in ignorance of
the fraud without fault or want of diligence on his part,
limitation does not begin to run until the fraud is discovered, although there are no special circumstances, and no
effort on the part of the party committing the fraud to
conceal it. Levee Com'rs v. Tensas Land Co., 204 Fed.
Rep. 736.
In a suit in equity by a public board of levee commissioners, to cancel deeds to lands sold by such, board for
fraud, complainant is not chargeable with notice of the
fraud by the fact that it consisted of bribery of persons
who were then officers and members of the board and its
agent, nor because it did not take active measures to discover it, where the transaction was fair on its face, and
there was nothing to cause suspicion, until the facts were
incidentally learned by a thirdperson who communicated
them to plaintiff, Levee Com'rs v. Tensas Land Co., 204
Fed. Rep. 736.
A suit by a trustee to recover assets alleged to have
been fraudulently transferred by the bankrupt within
four months prior to the filing of petition, ought not to
stand like a suit between private parties. United States v.
Minor, 114 U. S. 233, 240.
Courts of the United States follow their own adjudications in the interpretation, administration, and enforce-

KINDER v. SCHARFF.
231 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

ment of Federal statutes, and not those of state courts.
Calhoun Mining Co. v. Ajax Mining Co., 182 U. S. 499,
510.
Mr. CharlesA. McCoy, with whom Mr. Leland H. Moss
and Mr. Robert L. Knox were on the brief, for defendant
in error:
Section 11 of the Bankruptcy Act, like §5057, Rev.
Stat., is a statute of limitation. It is precisely like other
statutes of limitation and applies to all judicial contests
between the assignee and other persons touching the property or rights of property of the bankrupt transferable to
or vested in the assignee, where the interests are adverse
and have so existed for more than two years from the time
when the cause of action accrued, for or against the
assignee. Bailey v. Glover, 21 Wall. 342.
There must be reasonable diligence and a means of
knowledge is the same thing in effect as knowledge itself.
Wood v. Carpenter,101 U. S. 135; Johnson v. Standard Co.,
148 U. S. 370; Pearsal v. Smith, 149 U. S. 236; Kirby v.
Lake Shore Ry., 120 U. S. 130; Putnam v. New Albany &c.
Ry., 16 Wall. 390; Johnson v. Atlantic G. & W. I. T. Co.,
156 U. S. 648; Bates v. Peebles, 151 U. S. 162; Foster v.
Mansfield, 146 U. S. 88; Norris v. Hagan, 136 U. S. 329.
Whatever is notice enougti to excite attention to a fact
and put a party on his guard and call for an inquiry, is
notice of everything to which such inquiry might have
led. When .a person has sufficient information to lead
him to a fact, he shall be deemed conversant with it.
Johnson v. Stanard M. Co., 148 U. S. 307; Succession of
Dauphin, 112 Louisiana, 139; Poirierv. Cypress Co., 54 So.
Rep. 298; Citizens Bank v. Jansonne, 120 Louisiana, 399.
Concealment must be the result of positive acts, mere
silence is insufficient. Woods v. Carpenter, 101 U. S. 135;
*Felix v. Patrick, 145 U. S. 317; Pearsalv. Smith, 149 U. S.
236; Bailey v. Glover, 21 Wall. 342.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

231 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action by a trustee in bankruptcy to recover
land alleged to have been conveyed by the bankrupt in
fraud of creditors. The defendant pleaded that the estate
had been closed and that the action was barred by the
lapse of two years, under § lid of the Bankruptcy Act,
July 1, 1898, c. 541, 30 Stat. 544, 549, and also that he
purchased the land for its full value and in good faith.
The estate had been closed and the two years had run,
but after they had elapsed the former trustee petitioned
to have the proceedings reopened on the ground that he
had just discovered the facts and that the sale should be
set aside. The petition was granted, this suit was brought
and the judge of first instance ordered a reconveyance.
The Supreme Court of Louisiana found, as it was compelled to by the testimony of the trustee himself, that
during the pendency of the original proceeding the trustee
suspected the alleged fraud, made some inquiries, but
dropped the matter because he thought that it was not
worth while, that is, that it would not pay to go farther.
He 'voluntarily abstained from availing himself of the
means put in his hand by the law itself for the ascertainment of a suspected fact,' by examining the bankrupt and
otherwise. On this ground the court held that he could
not remove the bar of the statute, reversed the judgment
and dismissed the suit. 129 Louisiana, 218.
We are of opinion that the decision of the Supreme
Court was right. It is not necessary to consider whether
the running of the two years after the estate is first closed
is a bar to all suits upon claims that might have been collected if they had been known, or to controvert the conclusion of Bilafsky v. Abraham, 183 Massachusetts, 401,
that such suits are not barred. But it is obvious that there
must be some limits if the promise of repose after two
years in § lid is not to be a mirage. The power to reopen

KINDER v. SCHARFF
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

estates given in § 2 (8) 'whenever it appears that they
were closed before being fully administered' cannot be
taken to put it into the power of the court of bankruptcy
to'remove the bar of § 11 at its own will simply because a
trustee may have changed his mind. It was argued that
the court of first instance found fraud and that we could
not review the findings of fact. Waters-Pierce Oil Co. v.
Texas (No. 1), 212 U. S. 86, 97. But if so, we equally are
barred from reviewing the findings of the Supreme Court,
that the trustee was chargeable with knowledge of the
fraud, if there was one. Therefore, apart from the difference between the statutes considered there and here,
cases like Bailey v. Glover, 21 Wall. 342, and Traer v.
Clews, 115 U. S. 528, where the cause of action for fraud
was concealed, do not apply. The question is simply
whether, when, after an estate is closed, and more than
two years later a trustee comes to the conclusion that he
undervalued a claim that he knew of and might have sued
upon, or finds that the value has risen since, the Bankruptcy Court may reopen the estate for the sole purpose of
getting rid of the statute; and allowing the trustee to sue.
See Wood v. Carpenter, 101 U. S. 135. Rosenthal v. Walker,
111 U. S.185, 196.
The judge had no power by an ex parte order reopening
the estate to remove the bar that was completed, and that
there was no ground for removing. Whether it be put
on the construction of the Bankruptcy Act or on the
ground that the estate was fully administered quoad hoc,
or of laches on the part of the trustee, it comes to the same
thing. The claim in controversy cannot be made the
ground of a suit.
Judgment of the Supreme Court affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

concurs in the result.

