MULCREVY v. SAN FRANCISCO.
231 U. S.

Counsel for Defendant in Error.

MULCREVY, AND FIDELITY AND DEPOSIT COMPANY v. CITY AND COUNTY OF SAN FRANCISCO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA.
No. 133.

Argued December 12, 15, 1913.-Decided January 5, 1914.

An act of a State will not be construed in such a manner as to raise
questions concerning relations of state officers to the Siate if such
a construction can be avoided.
Quwere, whether in this case the writ of error should not have run to
the lower state court, the higher court having refused to transfer the
cause for review; but the Chief Justice of the State having allowed
the writ prior to the decision of this court in Norfolk Turnpike Co. v.
Virginia, 225 U. S. 264, it wiU. not be dismissed.
The construction given by the highest court of California to the provisions in the state statuie regarding the compensatio of county
clerks, followed; and held that the portion of fees retained under the
act of Congress of June 29, 1906, c. 3592, 34 Stat. 596, by a county
clerk in naturalization proceedings should be accounted for by him
to the county as public moneys.
The fact that a state or county official may also under an act of Congress be an agent of the National Government does not affect his
relations with the county and relieve him from accounting for fees
received from such Government if his contract requires him to
account for all fees received by him even though, so far as the
National Government is concerned, he is entitled to retain them in
whole or in part for services rendered.

THE facts, which involve the right of a county clerk of
San Francisco to retain a portion of the fees received by
him for naturalization of aliens as citizens of the United
States, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. James F. Tevlin, with whom Mr. Samuel M. Shortridge and Mr. L. A. Redman were on the brief, for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. J. F. English, with whom Mr. Percy V. Long was
on the brief, for defendant in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

231 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Action brought in the Superior Court of the City and
County of San Francisco against plaintiffs in error to recover from them the sum of $2;972, with interest from
certain dates, received by plaintiff in error Mulcrevy in
his official capacity as county clerk and ex officio clerk of
the Superior Court of the City and County of San Francisco in certain naturalization proceedings. Judgment was
rendered on the pleadings against plaintiffs in error. It
was affirmed on appeal.
Mulcrevy was elected county clerk of the City and
County of San Francisco at the November election, 1905,
for the term of two years commencing on January 8, 1906.
He duly filed his official bond with plaintiff in error, the
Fidelity and Deposit Company of Maryland, his surety,
which was conditioned that he should faithfully perform
all official duties which were then or thereafter might be
imposed upon him by law, ordinances, or the charter of
the City and County. His salary was fixed by the charter
at the sum of $4,000 and it was provided as follows: "The
salaries provided in this charter shall be in full compensation for all services rendered, and every officer shall pay
all moneys coming into his hands as such officer, no matter
from what source derived or received, into the treasury
of the City and County of San Francisco within twentyfour hours after the receipt of the same."
By his election Mulcrevy became ex officio the clerk of the
Superior Court. After he had entered upon the discharge
of his duties, on June 29, 1906, Congress passed an act,
c. 3592, 34 Stat. 596, entitled "An Act to establish a
Bureau of Immigration and Naturalization, and to provide for a uniform rule for the naturalization of aliens
throughout the United States." Jurisdiction in naturalization proceedings was conferred by the act on the Fed-

MULCREVY v. SAN FRANCISCO.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

eral courts and certain state courts, and the duties of the
clerks were set forth. Fees were prescribed, and it was
provided that the clerks of the courts collecting them were
authorized to retain one-half thereof, the other half to be
accounted for in their quarterly accounts which they were
required to make to the Bureau of Immigration and
Naturalization. The amount retained by the clerk, however, it was provided should not exceed in any one fiscal
year the sum of $3,000. If fees in excess of $6,000 be collected in any one year the clerk might be allowed by the
Secretary of Commerce and Labor additional compensation for additional clerical assistance out of the moneys
received by the United States.'
Under the provisions of the act as clerk of the Superior
Court in naturalization proceedings, Mulcrevy collected
1 "SEc. 13. . . . The clerk of any court collecting such fees is
hereby authorized to retain one.-half of the fees collected by him in
such naturalization proceeding; the remaining one-half of the naturalization fees in each case collected by such clerks, respectively, shall be
accounted for in their quarterly accounts, which they are hereby
required to render the Bureau of Immigration and Naturalization,
"Provided, That the clerks of courts exercising jurisdiction in
naturalization proceedings shall be permitted to retain one-half of the
fees in any fiscal year up to the sum of three thousand dollars, and that
all fees received by such clerks in naturalization proceedings in excess
of such amount shall be accounted for and paid over to said Bureau as
in case of other fees to which the United States may be entitled under
the provisions of this Act. The clerks of the various courts exercising
jurisdiction in naturalization proceedings shall pay all additional
clerical force that may be required in performing the duties imposed by
this Act upon the clerks of courts from fees received by such clerks in
naturalization proceedings. And in case the clerk of any court collects
fees in excess of the sum of six thousand dollars in any one year, the
Secretary of Commerce and Labor may allow to such clerk from the
money which the United States shall receive additional compensation
for the employment of additional clerical assistance, but for no other
purpose, if in the opinion of the said Secretary the business of such
clerk warrants such allowance," :34Stat. 600.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S

$5,944 and accounted for one-half thereof as required by
the act. The other half he kept for himself, his contention
being that it was intended for himself by the act of Congress as pay for his extra work and clerical assistance, the
fees not having been received by him in his official capacity but merely as an agent designated by the act of Congress to perform services in naturalization proceedings.
It appears from the opinion of the District Court of
Appeal that the total salary list fixed and allowed to Mulcrevy's office amounts to $58,600.00. And it is provided
by the charter that when an officer shall require additional
deputies, clerks or employ6s the same may be allowed by
supervisors if upon investigation the Mayor determines
the same to be necessary.
A question of jurisdiction is raised. From the judgment
of the Superior Court the case was taken by appeal to the
Supreme Court of the State, and properly taken, the latter.court having jurisdiction, the amount involved being
over $2,000. The Supreme Court, exercising the power
given to it by the constitution of the State, ordered the
cause to be heard by the District Court of Appeal of the
First Appellate District of the State. The record was
accordingly transmitted to the latter court, three printed
copies, however, being retained in the Supreme Court.
Upon the rendition of the judgment of the District Court
of Appeal affirming the judgment of the Superior Court,
a petition was filed in the Supreme Court for transfer
of the cause to it. The petition was denied as follows:
"By the Court: The petition to have the above entitled
cause heard and determined by this Court after Judgment in the District Court of Appeal for the First Appellate District is denied.
"BEATTY,

C. J."

A petition for writ of error was then presented to the
Chief Justice of the Supreme Court which recited that
that court was the highest court of the State in which a

MULCREVY v. SAN FRANCISCO.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

decision of the cause could be had. The writ was allowed
by the Chief Justice. A question was raised at the time
as to which court the writ should run and it seemed to be
the opinion of the Chief Justice, as it was of counsel, that
by the petition for transfer of the cause from the District
Court of Appeal to the Supreme Court the order of the
latter court made the judgment final in that court.
Though both counsel concur in this view, its correctness
may be doubted. However, as this writ of error was
allowed before the October term, 1912, of this court, the
case is brought within Norfolk Turnpike Co. v. Virginia,

225 U. S. 264. In that case, under like circumstances, we
did not dismiss the writ on our own motion but entertained
jurisdiction.
On the merits the case presents no difficulty. It involves
only the construction of the act of Congress already referred to above. We accept the state court's construction
of the charter of the City and County of San Francisco.
Indeed, its clearness leaves no room for construction. The
salary it provides is declared to be "in full compensation
for all services rendered." And it is provided that "every
officer shall pay all moneys coming into his hands as such
officer, no matter from what source derived or received,
into the treasury of the city and county." The provisions
are complete and comprehensive and express Mulcrevy's
contract with the city, the performance of which his office
imposed upon him; and, of course, the fees'received by him
in naturalization proceedings, because he was clerk of the
Superior Court, were in compensation for official acts, not
personal acts.
But it is contended by plaintiffs in error that the fees
having been received officially is not of importance, that
nevertheless he acted as the representative of the United
States in execution of the policies of the United States
and being by the act of Congress invested with his powers
he is entitled for himself to the compensation prescribed
VOL. CCXXXI-43

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

by the act for their execution, without any liability to
account for them to the city. The last proposition, however, does not follow from the others, and the others are
but confusing. If it be granted that he was made an
agent of the National Government, his relations to the
city were not thereby changed. He was still its officer,
receiving fees because he was-not earning them otherwise or receiving them otherwise, but under compact with
the city to pay them into the city treasury within twentyfour hours after their receipt.
Under the contention of plaintiffs in error a rather curious situation is presented. Mulcrevy was elected to an
office constituted by the municipality under the authority
of the State. He was given a fixed salary of $4,000 with
the express limitation that it should be his complete compensation. He agreed that all other moneys received by
him officially should be paid into the treasury of the city.
He was given office accommodations, clerks to assist him,
and yet contends that notwithstanding such equipment
and assistance, notwithstanding his compact, he may retain part of the revenues of his office as fees for his own
personal use. We cannot-yield to the contention. Nor
do we think the act of Congress compels it. The act does
not purport to deal with the relations of a state officer
with the State. To so co.istrue it might raise seriuus questions of power, and such questions are always to be
avoided. We do not have to go to such lengths. The act
is entirely satisfied without putting the officers of a State
in antagonism to the laws of the State-the laws which
give them their official status. It is easily construed and
its purpose entirely accomplished by requiring an accounting of one-half of the fees to the United States, leaving the
other half to whatever disposition may be provided by
the state law. Counsel cite some state decisions which
have construed the act of Congress as giving a special
agency to the clerks of the state courts and as receiving

PENNELL v. PHILA. & READING RY.
231 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

their powers and rights from the national enactment.
The reports of the Department of Commerce and Labor
are quoted from, which, it is contended, exhibit by their
statistics and recommendations the necessity of national

control.

State decisions expressing a contrary view are

frankly cited. This contrariety of opinion we need not
further exhibit by a review of the cases. We have expressed our construction of the act, and it is entirely consonant with the purpose of the act and national control
over naturalization.

Judgment affirmed.

PENNELL, ADMINISTRATRIX, v. PHILADELPHIA
& READING RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 469. Argued December 3, 1913.-Decided January 5, 1914.
Quwre, and not decided on this record, whether the purpose of the
Safety Appliance Act is to protect all employ~s of every class and the
mere absence of an automatic coupler is enough for liability if
accident and injury result to an employ6.
Under the Safety Appliance Act of March 2, 1893, c. 196, 27 Stat. 531,
as amended March 2, 1903, c. 976, 32 Stat. 943, automatic couplers
are not required between the locomotive and the tender.
While a custom of railroads cannot -justify a violation of a mandatory
statute, a custom which has the sanction of the Interstate Commerce
Commission is persuasive of the meaning of that statute.
203 Fed. Rep. 681, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of the Safety

Appliance Acts and their application to tenders of locomotives, are stated in the opinion.

