OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

231 U. S.

GRAHAM AND THE TITLE GUARANTY AND
SURETY COMPANY v. UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 76. Argued November 13, 14, 1913.-Decided December 8, 1913.
Where the contractor refuses to go on with the work there is no question
of revision of judgment of an officer annulling the contract, and a
right of action accrues to the Government without need of any useless ceremony of approval by the superior officer or board. United
States v. McMullen, 222 U. S. 460, distinguished.
aa this case, as the bond in terms contemplated an extension of time
and the contract provided for modifications, the surety was not discharged by waiver of time limit or for modifications without its
express consent.
Under a contract that the Government would furnish the contractor
with granite blocks free on board cars at the quarry, he to transport
them, held that the contractor was to furnish the cars and was responsible for delay in that respect.
In Federal courts the judge and jury are assumed to be competent to
play their respective parts; and held that the charge to the jury in
this case as 'to the meaning of the phrase "net dimension blocks"
was adequate and fair.
This court will not upset a verdict upon the speculation that the jury
did not do their duty and follow the instructions of the court; the
fact that the attention of the jury was. called by counsel for the
Government to the statement on the letter-head of the surety company defendant that its capital was $1,000,000, held not to have been
prejudicial.
An instruction that the Government was entitled to recover, in case of
breach found, an amount, not exceeding the penalty of the bond,
equal to the difference between the reasonable and necessary cost
to it for transporting, cutting and delivering the granite mentioned
in the case and the amount specified inthe contract, held to have
referred simply to the granite actually in controversy; and there

GRAHAM v. UNITED STATES.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

being evidence in the case to warrant the finding, and as the measure
followed the contract, a verdict for the amount was correct.
188 Fed. Rep. 651; 110 C. C. A. 465, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the validity of a judgment obtained by the United States against a contractor and
surety for failure to perform, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Charles F. Harley and Mr. George R. Gaither,
with whom Mr. John B. .4. Wheltle and Mr. Burdette B.
Webster were on the brief, for plaintiffs in error.
The Solicitor General for the United States.
MR. JUsTIcE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action upon a bond against a contractor and
his surety, for breach of a contract made under the act
of March 3, 1903, c. 1007, 32 Stat. 1083, 1102, with Green,
Superintendent of Construction, acting under the direction
of the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution for the
United States, party of the first part, which the bond was
given to secure. The contracto4, Graham, agreed to
"transport from the quarry, cut, box and deliver complete,
all of the Bethel granite, to be furnished by the party of
the first part free on board cars at the quarry at Bethel,
Vermont, required for" a part of the National Museum
in Washington described in the specifications, "and to do
all other things needful to carry out all and singular the
several requirements of the said specifications, the drawings therein referred to, and the instructions and general
conditions," for a gross sum. In case of failure to prosecute the work diligently 'in the judgment of the Superintendent of Construction, Green or his successor was given
power, 'with the sanction of the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution, to annul' the contract by notice in

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

writing, whereupon payments under the contract were
to cease, &c., and the United States was given the right
to recover from Graham any excess over the contract
price expended for completing the contract, which it was
authorized to proceed to do. There were provisions for
an extension of time by the Superintendent, for written
modifications of the contract as to the character or quantity of the labor or material, and for payment of ninety
per cent. as the progress of the work might warrant. The
bond was for the performance of the contract according
to its true intent and during any period of extension
granted by the United States.
On March 7, 1908, after the time fixed for the completion of the work, Graham discharged his workmen and
stopped work, the contract not having been performed.
On March 11, the Superintendent wrote to him saying
that he had heard that Graham apparently had stopped
work indefinitely, and asking for immediate correct information. On the 14th Graham's lawyer answered that
Graham had stopped work; that the step was necessary
for his financial welfare in view of the damage that he had
sustained through the Government's conduct, and that
"if this matter can be in any way amicably adjusted"
he would be glad to do anything fair. On the 16th the
Superintendent replied that if he received no immediate
assurance that the work was to be resumed promptly
he must proceed to annul the contract; and on the 18th
notified Graham that the contract was annulled with the
sanction of the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution.
To this Graham's lawyer rejoined that they could not
concede any default, that the Government alone was to
blame, but that they were willing to do what was fair,
and to let the Government use their plant if the damage
sustained could be adjusted. The Superintendent had
written on the 18th to the Secretary of the Board of
Regents recommending the so-called annulment and notice

GRAHAM v. UNITED STATES.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to the contractor and his surety, and had received his
approval expressed to be on behalf of the Board of Regents.
Afterwards the United States completed the work. There
was a long trial which resulted in a verdict and judgment
for the plaintiff for the penalty of the bond, $50,000,
subject to exceptions. The judgment was affirmed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals. :188 Fed. Rep. 651; 110 C. C. A.
465.
Before considering the excuses alleged by Graham we
will dispose of a preliminary objection that the suit cannot
be maintained because the Secretary of the Board of
Regents did not consult the Board before undertaking
to sanction the 'annulment' of the contract. It is unnecessary to pass upon the argument that under the statute
the Board could have no voice, and that by custom and
practice, as well as by necessity in view of the constitution of the Board, the Secretary represented it in matters
like this. The provision as to annulment, construed in
United States v. McMullen, 222 U. S. 460, 471 and cases
cited, referred to cases where there was a failure to prosc
cute the work diligently in the judgment of the Secretai
and allowed a revision of that judgment in cases of tht
sort, before the United States should decline to procee.
further and complete the work by other means. But when
Graham refused to go on, there was no question of judgment to be revised but a plain breach of the contract
unless the refusal was justified, and a right of action accrued without the need of a ceremony that would have had
no meaning or use. The letters from March7 to March 1S,
1908, appear to us to show a clear refusal by Graham
to do any further work. The expressions as to adjustment
suggest nothing but a compromise of mutual claims, to be
followed by the Government's, not Graham's, use of
Graham's plant.
Another objection not going to the merits of Graham's
case is that the surety was discharged by a waiver of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913..
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

original time limit without its assent, and by Graham's
being called on for some extra *ork, due to a slight enlargement of the diameter of the dome, for which he was
paid. The bond in terms contemplated an extension of
time as possible and the contract provided, as we have
said, for a waiver of the time limit and for written modifications. The modifications were exhibited in letters, but
perhaps it is unnecessary to consideri how far a surety
whose undertaking extends to modifications of the principal contract is concerned with the form in which they
are made. The surety was not discharged. United States
v. McMullen, 222 U. S. 460, 468, 469.

The only question of substance is whether Graham's
refusal to finish the work was justified or excused by the
conduct of the other party. The first and only serious
matter of complaint on his part was delay in furnishing
him granite. The undisputed testimony is that this
delay was due to their being unable to get cars at the
quarry to take the stone, and so under the instructions
the jury must have found, so that the responsibility for
it depends upon who was bound to furnish the cars. By
the contract the Government was to furnish the granite
free on board the cars at the quarry, and Graham agreed
to transport it from that place. On such an undertaking,
as Graham was to do the transporting and moreover was
made responsible for safe delivery on the site of the
Museum building, and as the railroad would be his bailee,
he naturally would be held to furnish the cars. No different conclusion seems to us to follow from the languagc
of the preliminary description and conditions. Thesc
recite that "The necessary Bethel granite stock, in net
dimension blocks, is to be furnished to the Government
by the present contractor, free on board cars at the quarry
in Bethel, ready for the contractor for the cutting of the
granite to transport it to his cutting yards for that purpose." They go on "Bidders for the Bethel granite work

GRAHAM v. UNITED STATES.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

will therefore bid on the basis and understanding that the
granite, in net dimension blocks, one block for each separate pattern, will be furnished to them without unnecessary
delay and without charge, free on board cars at the quarry
at Bethel, Vermont." The first passage does not mean
that because the quarry man was to furnish the granite
free on board and ready for transportation the quarry
man was to furnish the cars. It may mean that as between him and the Government the Government was
bound to do it, but, by the same reasoning, the second
passage means that bidders were invited to step into the
Government's shoes and assume a like obligation towards
it, as by the agreement when made Graham did. It follows that he cannot charge the United States with delay
due to lack of cars. Furthermore, in a letter of February 10, 1908, when the delay had ceased, he wrote that the
work was nearly finished and that he intended to devote
his whole yard to it until it, should be about completed.
This is wholly irreconcilable with the defence that a month
later he abandoned the work because of the delay.
The next excuse put forward is that the granite was not
furnished in 'net dimension blocks.' There was contradictory evidence as to the meaning of the phrase,
Graham contending, in the face of his contract to cut, that
it meant perfect blocks. But he admitted that he did
not have that understanding when he contracted and,
although on February 14, 1907, he complained of the size,
in the letter just mentioned of February 10, 1908, he
wrote that the work 'has had to be. cut and shipped, but
it is now nearly finished and I intend to devote my entire
yard to-Museum work, until I see the job about completed.' The judge left it to the jury 'whether on a fair
average the rough stone Furnished complied with the
stipulation that it should be furnished in net dimension
blocks, as you find the meaning and intention of that
sfipulation was understood by the parties to the contract.'

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.

Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

He added, 'if you find that in the latter part of February
and the early part of March the stone in point of its
dimensions and roughness did not comply with the con.
Graham could not be held to the further
tract,
performance of his contract, and your verdict should be
for the defendants.' The reference to February and
March did not import a limitation of time, but simply a
reference to the period as to which the judge understood
that there was special complaint. No attention was called
to the matter as it should have been if any misunderstanding was feared. The charge on the point was adequate
and fair. It is objected that the judge called the jury's
attention to Graham's testimony concerning his expectation when he contracted. The judge had a right to do
more than that if he left the decision to them. Universal
distrust creates universal incompetence. In the courts of
the United States the judge and jury are assumed to be
competent to play the parts that always have belonged to
them in the country in which the modern jury trial had
its birth. Rucker v. Wheeler, 127 U. S. 85.
The ground on which Graham testified that he stopped
work was that he could not get any money, but there seems
to be no evidence that the Government failed in its obligations as to payment and this point is not one of those most
pressed. We have examined the places in the record referred to by the defendants and think it enough to say
that we discover no error of which they can complain.
Much emphasis was laid in the argument on what seem
to us meticulous objections to every detail in the conduct
of the trial. One that was dwelt upon was that, in putting
in a letter from the surety showing notice to it of Graham's
default and the position taken by it, the counsel was
allowed to read the letter head, which contained the words
'Capital and Surplus over $1,000,000,' as well as the letter
itself (which last was not objected to), and that in arguinent the counsel for the Government said 'There is no

GRAHAM v. UNITED STATES.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

room for sympathy for the poor defendant in this case.'
The document went in as a whole, properly enough, and
the judge charged the jury that it was 'not a case for
sentimental considerations of any kind' with more in the
same direction. It would be absurd to upset a verdict
upon a speculation that the jury did not do their duty and
follow the instructions of the court. As to various remarks made by the judge in the course of the trial, it is
enough to refer to What we have said already as to his
power, and that we discover nothing that could have
created a prejudice against the defendants or have been
open to objection even if he had been more strictly tied
down by law than he was.
We find no error on the question of damages. The
judge instructed the jury that the plaintiff was entitled
to recover, of course not exceeding the penalty of the bond,
the difference between 'the reasonable and necessary
cost to the plaintiff for transporting, cutting and delivering
the granite mentioned in this case .
.
and the
amount specified in the contract' to be paid to Graham.
There was some cavil at the phrase 'granite mentioned
in this case,' but obviously it meant the granite in controversy. There was evidence warranting a finding, and
the measure followed the contract and was correct.
United States v. McMullen, 2:22 U. S. 460, 471. A superfluous number of prayers was submitted and exceptions
were taken at every step. We deem it enough to say in
regard to them all that the instructions to the jury were
fair, the rulings on the questions in. the case correct, and
that nothing appears that would warrant us in ordering
the case to be retried.
Judgment affirmed;
THm CHIEF
case.

JUSTICE

took no part in the decision of this

VOL. ccxxxt--31

