UNITED STATES v. DAVIS.
231 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

reversed and the case be remanded to the court below
for further proceedings not inconsistent with the opinion
in the Wass Case and the action which we now take in
applying the decision in that case.

Reversed.

UNITED STATES v. DAVIS.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

No. 395.

Arguied October 17, 1913.-Decided December 1, 1913.

On a direct appeal from an order quashing an indictment this court
assumes the correctness of the meaning affixed to the indictment by
the court below and determines only whether the statute was correctly construed.
Section 29 of the Penal Code is practically a reproduction of § 5421,
Rev. Stat., which in turn represents § 1 of the act of March 3, 1823,
c. 38, 3 Stat. 771, and this court follows the construction already
given by this court to the last named statute to the effect that it
embraces fraudulent documents as well as those that are forged or
counterfeited. United States v. .Staats, 8 How. 41.
The enumeration of certain classes of forged and false documents in
§ 5421, Rev. Stat., does not exclude other fraudulent documents
which might be used to perpetrate the wrong which it is the purpose
of the statute to prevent.

THE facts, which involve the construction of §§ 28 and
29 of the Penal Code (§§ 5421 and 5479, Rev. Stat.), are
stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Knaebel for the United
States:
The false writings intended

by the third clause of § 5421.,

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

231 U. S.

Rev. Stat., are not confined to forgeries, but include also
writings genuine as to execution but false and fraudulent
in substance. United States v. Staats, 8 How. 41; United
States v. Barney, 5 Blatchf. 294; S. C., 24 Fed. Cas.,
No. 14524; United States v. Bickford, 4 Blatchf. 337; S. C.,
24 Fed. Cas., No. 14591; United States v. Spaulding
(Dakota), 13 N. W. Rep. 357; United States v. Hansee, 79
Fed. Rep. 303; Dolan v. United States, 133 Fed. Rep. 440,
450. See also United States v. Gowdy, 37 Fed. Rep.
332.
it was expressly held in the Bickford Case, supra, that
the third clause applies to a case in which the --laim is
one for bounty land; and a like ruling was made in
United States v. Wilcox, 4 Blatchf. 385; S. C., 28 Fed. Cas.,
No. 16691.
In view of the nature of a soldier's additional right,
those cases cannot be distinguished from the case at bar.
United States v. Lair, 118 Fed. Rep. 98; Barnes v. Poirier,
64 Fed. Rep. 14; Webster v. Luther, 163 U. S. 331. United
States v. Fout, 123 Fed. Rep. 625; United States v. Reese,
4 Sawy. 629, distinguished.
Mr. Thomas M. Seawell, with whom Mr. Oscar T. Hamlin was on the brief, for defendants in error:
The construction of the indictment by the lower court
is without doubt correct, but even if it were not, this court
cannot review that question in this proceeding because
the construction of the indictment made by the lower
court is final in this court. United States v. Biggs, 211 U. S.
507; United States v. Keitel, 211 U. S. 370.
Sections 28 and 29 of the Penal Code, namely, the act
of Congress approved March 4, 1909, relate and refer
solely to forged, false and counterfeited instruments, public records, affidavits and other writings, and not to instruments, public records, affidavits and other writings
containing false statements; therefore, the indictment

UNITED STATES v. DAVIS.
231 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

does not state facts sufficient to constitute the offense
under § 37 of the Penal Code, of conspiracy to commit an
offense prohibited by §§ 28 and 29 thereof. United States
v. Staats, 8 How. 41; United States v. Howell, 11 Wall.
432; United States v. Moore, 60 Fed. Rep. 738; United
States v. Glasener, 81 Fed. Rep. 566; United States v.
Albert, 45 Fed. Rep. 552; United States v. Wentworth, 11
Fed. Rep. 52; United States v. Barney, 5 Blatchf. 294;
United States v. Reese, 4 Sawy. 629; State v. Willson, 28
Minnesota, 52; Mann v. People, 15 Hun, 155; State v.
Young, 46 N. H. 266; Commonwealth v. Baldwin, 11 Gray,
197; Barb. Cr. Law, 97; Whart. Cr. Law, § 653.
The decision of the lower court is correct as the instruments mentioned in the statutes construed by it do not
include the affidavit, assignnent,. written guaranty and
instruments set forth in each of the counts of the indictment. This court is not confined to a review merely of
the single reason given by -he lower court, but if in the
construction of the statutes under consideration there are
other reasons why the judgment of the lower court should
be sustained, this court has a right to so decide so long
as the decision is confined to the construction of the

statutes.
The object of the statute of 1907 was to confine this
court to a review of decisions of the lower court concerning
the subjects embraced within the clauses of the statutes.
United States v. Keitel, 211 U. S. 371; United States v.
Stevenson, 215 U. S. 190.
The subject of soldiers' additional homesteads is governed by §§ 2306, 2307, Rev. Stat., and under them no
affidavits of any kind are required. In this case the
affidavit of the claimant is unofficial in character and initiates no right to any tract of land, being a mere ex parte
declaration under oath by persons having no official relation to the Government. See Barnes v. Poirier,64 Fed.
Rep. 14; Webster v. Luther, 163 U. S. 331; United States v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

Gridley, 186 Fed.'Rep. 544; Robinson v. Lundrigan, 178
Fed. Rep. 230.
The instruments being unknown to the law, cannot
be made the basis of a criminal offense, and therefore a
proper construction of §§ 28 and 29, Penal Code, does not
include the instruments contained in the indictment.
United States v. Dupont, 176 Fed. Rep. 823.
Even if there were rules and regulations of the Land
Department providing for such instruments, still as they
are not authorized by any law of the United States, such
requirements cannot be made the basis of a criminal
offense. Williamson v. United States, 207 U. S. 425;
Webster v. Luther, 163 U. S. 331: United States v. Eaton, 144
U. S. 677.
The indictment upon its face discloses that the alleged
conspiracy was for the purpose of transferring additional
homestead rights to third persons by, means of the written
instruments therein set forth.
If, therefore, there be any fraudulent purpose disclosed
in the indi'ctments it is not to defraud the Government,
but individuals who may be allured into the purchase of
such rights. The statute does not include such conduct
towards individuals.
A conspiracy formed for the purpose of committing a
crime against the State is no offense against the laws of
the United States. Pettibone v. United States, 148 U. S.
419; United States v. Thompson, 29 Fed. Rep. 86; United
States v. Fout, 123 Fed. Rep. 625.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE,

delivered the opinion of

the court.
The indictment charged the defendants under Penal
Code, §37 (Rev. Stat. § 5440), with a conspiracy to commit offenses against the United States, that is, to violate
J§ 28 and 29 of the Penal Code. These sections, leaving

UNITED STATES v. DAVIS.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

aside additions, irrelevant to this case, are reproductions
ot §§ 5421 and 5479, Revised Statutes, in force in 1909 when
the acts charged were committed. All the overt acts
concerned the making or use of false affidavits and documents, in support of a fraudulent claim for land under
Rev. Stat. §§ 2304 and 2307, giving honorably discharged
soldiers of the Civil War the right to make an additional
entry under the circumstances stated in the statutes and
the privilege also conferred upon the widow of such honorably discharged soldier to make a claim for land as therein
provided. In passing on demurrers, the court treating
all the counts as relating solely to the making and use of
documents which were merely false and fraudulent but
not forged, and construing §§ 5421 and 5479, Rev. Stat.,
and Penal Code, §§ 28 and 29 as embracing only documents
which were forged and counterfeited, held that none of
the counts charged acts embraced by the provisions in
question and therefore the indictment was quashed because it stated no offense against the United States. On
this direct appeal we assume the correctness of the meaning
affixed to the indictment by the court below and come only
to determine whether the statute was correctly construed.
This duty is narrowed by a concession made in argument
by the Government to the effect that the construction
given by the court to the statute was correct except as to
the last paragraph of § 5421, and that even if as to that
paragraph it be held that the court below was wrong and
that the terms of the paragraph include affidavits, documents, etc., which were merely fraudulent and not forged,
only the fourth count would in that contingency be within
the section. This consequently confines the issue to a consideration of the third paragraph of the section. For convenience of reference the entire section is in the margin.'
5421. Every person who falsely makes, alters, forges, or
counterfeits; or causes or procures to be falsely made, altered, forged, or
1SEc.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

Coming to the text of the third paragraph, we think it is
at once apparent that its provisions are so comprehensive
as to.prevent us from holding that they include only documents which are forged or counterfeited and hence exclude
all other documents, however fraudulent they may be.
The all-embracing words "any deed, power of attorney,
order, certificate, receipt, or other writing, in support of,
or in relation to, any account or claim, with intent to
defraud the United States, knowing the same to be false,
altered, forged, or counterfeited" leave room for no other
conclusion. The context of the section reinforces this
view, since the contrast between the narrow scope of the
first two paragraphs and the enlarged grasp of the third
shows the legislative intent, after fully providing in the
first two paragraphs for forged and counterfeited documents, instruments, etc., to reach by the provisions of the
third paragraph, any and all fraudulent documents,
whether forged or not forged, and thus efficiently to deter
counterfeited; or willingly aids or assists in the false making, altering,
forging, or counterfeiting, any deed, power of attorney, order, certifi•cate, receipt, or other writing, for the purpose of obtaining or receiving,
or of enabling any other person, either directly or indirectly, to obtain
or receive from the United States, or any of their officers or agents, any
sum of money;
or who utters or publishes as true, or causes to be uttered or published
as true, any such false, forged, altered, or counterfeited deed, power of
attorney, order, certificate, receipt, or other writing, with intent to
defraud the United States, knowing the same to b! false, altered,
forged, or counterfeited;
or who transmits to, or presents at, or causes or procures to be transmitted to, or presented at, any office or officer of the Government of the
United States, any deed, power of attorney, order, certificate, receipt,
or other writing, in support of, or in relation to, any agcount or claim,
Yrith intent to defraud the United States, knowing the same to be false,
altered, forged, or counterfeited, shall be imprisoned at hard labor for
a period of not less than one year nor more than ten years; or shall be
imprisoned not more than five years, and fined not more than one
thousand dollars.

UNITED STATES v. DAVIS.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

from committing the wrong which it was the purpose of
the section to prohibit. It is not, however, necessary to
fix the true meaning of the provision by a resort as an
original question to its text, since its significance has been
authoritatively determined contrary to the construction
adopted by the court below. The section represents the
first section of the act of March 3, 1823, c. 38, 3 Stat. 771,
the title of which, "An act for the punishment of frauds
committed on the Government of the United States,"
manifests the purpose which Congress had in mind in
enacting it. As long ago as 1850, in United States v. Staats,
8 How. 41, the court was called upon to determine whether
an indictment charging the transmission of a false (but not
forged) affidavit touching a claim for pension was sustainable under the third clause of the section. The court
fully analyzed the statute and while conceding that other
clauses of the act dealt with forged instruments in a
technical sense, concluded that the case was within both
the letter and the spirit of the act and therefore that the
acts charged in the indictment constituted an offense
within the provisions of the law. When then the question
before us is determined in the light of the text of the third
paragraph and the context of the section, especially as
elucidated by the ruling in the Staats Case, we think it
clearly results that the court below was wrong in the construction which it gave the statute and therefore its judgment must be reversed. In saying this we do not overlook
the fact that in the argument for the defendant in error
it is insisted that even although it be found that the
construction which the court below gave was an erroneous
one, nevertheless its judgment should be affirmed because
from other points of view, the statute, if rightly construed,
would exclude the possibility of holding that the facts
charged in the indictment were within its terms. But
without going into detail on this subject, we content ourselves with saying that in our opinion all the propositions

190

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

231 U. S.

relied upon to sustain this result are so obviously unsound or so plainly concern the construction of the indictment as not to call for particular notice.
Reversed.

UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v. LARAMIE STOCK YARDS COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF WYOMING.

No. 570. Submitted October 14, 1913.-Decided December 1, 1913.

The first rule of construction of statutes is that legislation is addressed
to the future and not to the past. This rule isone of obvious justice.
Unless its terms unequivocally import that it was the manifest intent
of the legislature enacting it, a retrospective operation will not be
given to a statute which interferes with antecedent rights or by
which human action is regulated.
The right of way granted under the Land Grant Act of July 1, 1862,
was a very important aid to the railroad, and was a present absolute
grant subject to no conditions except those absolutely implied, such
as construction and user.
The act of June 24, 1912, c. 181, 37 Stat. 138, permitting state statutes
of limitation to apply to adverse possession of portions of the right
of way granted to the railroad company under the act of July 1,
1862, did not have a retroactive effect. Sohn v. Waterson, 17 Wall.
596.
Congress did not intend by the act of June 24, 1912, to exercise powers
to alter and amend the charters of the railroad companies reserved
by the acts of July 1, 1862, and July 2, 1864.
This court will not assume that Congress intends to forfeit or limit any
of the rights granted to the transcontinental railroads unless it does
so explicitly.
An amendment to an existing charter enacted under the reserved power
to alter and amend will not be construed as having a retroactive
effect as to vested property rights in absence of clear intent of the
legislature enacting it.

