OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Counsel for Respondent.

231 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. TWENTY-FIVE PACKAGES
OF PANAMA HATS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE'
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 257.

Argued October 30, 1913.-Decided December 1, 1913.

The expression-to attempt to introduce into the commerce of the,
United States-includes more than to attempt to enter merchandise,
and as used in the act of August 5, 1909, c. 6, 36 Stat. 11, 97, it covers
fraudulent invoices made by consignors in foreign countries.
As statutes have no extraterritorial operation, a consignor making a
fraudulent invoice in a foreign country cannot be punished therefor,,
but the goods being within the protection and subject to the commercial regulations of this country can be subjected to forfeiture for
the fraudulent attempt to introduce them.
While punishment for crime and forfeiture of goods affected by the.
crime are often coincident, they are not necessarily so, and inability
to reach the criminal is a reason for subjecting the goods to forfeiture.
A foreign consignor is charged with knowledge of the regulations of the
United States in regard to importation of goods and their dispositiort
in case thby are not called for after removal from the 'vessel.
When goods are unloaded and placed in General Order they are actually
introduced into the commerce of the United States within the meaning of the statute intending to prevent fraud on the customs.
195 Fed. Rep. 438, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of the tariff
laws of the United States in regard to attempted introduction into the commerce of the United States of goods
fraudulently undervalued, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Adkins. for the United
States.
Mr. Albert H. Washburn for the respondent.

UNITED STATES v. 25 PACKAGES OF RATS.
231 U. S.

359

Opinion of the Court.

MR.JUSTICE LAMAR delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a proceeding to forfeit, for fraud of foreign
consignors, goods not technically entered at the New York
Customs House, but unloaded from the ship and stored
in General Order. The libel charges that Castillo & Co.
were engaged in buying and selling Panama hats shipped
to them by merchants from foreign ports. These consignors, as required by law, (June 10, 1890, c. 407; 26 Stat.
131), delivered to the American Consular Agent, at the
point of shipment, three sets of invoices showing the value
of the property intended for importation into the United
States. -One of these invoices was retained by that officer,
one was sent to the Collector of the Port, at New York,
and the third was delivered to the consignor and by him
forwarded to the consignee, Castillo & Co. All the provisions of the law were complied with, except that the
consignors falsely and fraudulently undervalued the merchandise. The goods arrived in New York during April,
May and June, 1910, but were not called for by the consignee. They were accordingly put in General Order
by virtue of Customs Regulations (§§ 1087, 1088; 1902,
Rev. Stat. 2954, 2989) whereby the Collector takes possession of goods unloaded but unclaimed. They are then
stored in a General Order warehouse, the consignee having
the right at any time within 12 months to withdraw them
and make due entry therefor. If not so entered within
the year, the merchandise must be sold at public auction.
The libelled goods not having been called for, the
Collector, in May, 1911, caused proceedings to be instituted to have them forfeited under the provisions of § 9
of the Tariff Act of August -5,1909, c. 6, 36 Stat. 11, 97,
which declares "That if any consignor, seller, owner,
importer, consignee, agent, or other person or persons,
shall enter or introduce, or attempt to enter or introduce,
into the commerce of the United States any imported

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

merchandise by means of any fraudulent or false invoice, . . . or shall be guilty of any willful act or
omission by means whereof the United States shall or
may be deprived of the lawful duties, . . . such
merchandise, or the value thereof, to be recovered from
such person or persons, shall be forfeited, . . . and
such person or persons shall, upon conviction, be finedor imprisoned-or both, in the discretion of the court."
Maximo Castillo, as claimant, filed exceptions to the
libel on the ground that the merchandise was not subject
to forfeiture because there had been no entry of the goods,
contending that placing them in General Order was not
even an Attempt to introduce them into the commerce
of the United States, inasmuch as the owner might, during the year, direct them to be forwarded to a foreign
country without payment of a duty here. This contention
was sustained by the District Judge. That judgment was
affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals (195 Fed. Rep.
438) and the case is here on writ of certiorari.
The prior Tariff Act (26 Stat. 131) provided , the
forfeiture of the goods "if any owner, importer, consignee,
agent or other person shall make or attempt to make any
entry of imported merchandise by means of any fraudulent or false invoice." In several cases arising under that
act it was held that the language used did not cover the
case of fraud by the consignor, nor could the goods be
forfeited for the wrongful conduct of any person if the
act preceded the making of the documents or taking any
of'the steps necessary to enter the goods. United States
v. 646 Half Boxes of Figs, 164 Fed. Rep. 778 (1908);
United States v. One Trunk, 171 Fed. Rep. 772 (July,
1909). Under the statute, as thus construed, there was no
penalty for the grossest fraud on the part of the consignor,
notwithstanding the fact that his invoice valuation was of
great importance in determining true value, as a basis
for collecting the duty. And even if the consignor was

UNITED STATES v. 25 PACKAGES OF HATS.
231 U. S.

361

Opinion of the Court.

also consignee it had been held that there was a locus
pcenitentie so that he might, before entry, substitute a
true for a false invoice and thus escape a forfeiture.
In order to close these loopholes and to make the act
more effective Congress, on August 5, 1909 (36 Stat. 11,
97), changed the law so as to increase the number of persons whose fraud should be punished. It also enlarged the
scope of conduct for which the goods should be forfeited.
Instead of punishing only for the fraud of the "owner,
importer, consignee and other persons," as under the
act of 1890, provision was made for forfeiture for fraud,
of the "consignor or seller." Instead of punishing only
for entering or attempting to enter on a fraudulent invoice, it punished an attempt by such means "to introduce any imported merchandise into the commerce of the
United States" This latter phrase necessarily included
more than an attempt to enter, otherwise the amendment
was inoperative against the consignor against whom it was
specially aimed, for he does not, as such-, make the declaration, sign the documents, or take any steps in entering or attempting to enter the goods. When he makes
the false invoice in a foreign country there is no extraterritorial operation of the statute whereby he can be
criminally punished for his fraud. But when the consignor
made the fraudulent undervaluation in the foreign country
and on such false invoice the g9ods were shipped and'arrived consigned to a merchant in New York, the merchandise was within the protection and subject to the penalties
of the commercial regulations of this country even though
the consignor was beyond the seas and outside the court's
jurisdiction.
It was argued that the goods could only be forfeited
for the same acts that would support an indictment, and
inasmuch as the consignor could not be prosecuted here
for making a false invoice in a foreign country, neither
could the goods be forfeited for the same conduct in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

same place. But while punishment for the crime and
forfeiture of the goods will often be coincident penalties,
they are not necessarily so, nor is there any inconsistency
in proceeding against the res if the wrongdoer is beyond
the jurisdiction of the court. The very fact that the
criminal provision of the statute does not operate extraterritorially against the consignor, would be a reason
why the goods themselves should be subjected to forfeiture on arrival here. Cf. American Banana Co. v.
United Fruit Co., 213 U. S. 347, 356; United States v.
Nord Deutscher Lloyd, 223 U. S. 512. The consignor's
absence would not relieve the goods from the liability
to be forfeited. He must be treated as having made the
shipment with a knowledge that they could not remain
in the vessel (Rev. Stat. § 2880), and that if, after being
unloaded, they were not called for, they would be stored
in General Order, there to remain, free from the burden
of any state legislation and within the protection of the
commerce clause of the Constitution. The foreign consignor is charged with knowledge that if goods stored in
such warehouse were not called for within the year they
were to be sold at public outcry; or if, during that period,
they were taken out for shipment to a foreign port, they
would start from a place of storage within the territory
of the United States and move thence in a channel of its
commerce. So that in the present case when the, goods,
fraudulently undervalued and consigned to a person in
New York, arrived at the port of entry there was an
attempt to introduce them into the commerce of the
United States. When they were unloaded and placed
in General Order they were actually introduced into that
commerce, within the meaning of the statute intended
to prevent frauds on the customs. The judgment dismissing the libel is
Reversed and the cause remanded for further proceedings
in conformity with this opinion.

