OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

231 U. S.

holders of competing institutions, but it does not require
that the scheme of taxation shall be so arranged that the
burden shall fall upon each and every shareholder alike,
without distinction arising from circumstances personal
to the individual.
Judgment affirmed.

UNITED STATES FIDELITY AND GUARANTY
COMPANY OF BALTIMORE v. COMMONWEALTH OF KENTUCKY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF

KENTUCKY.
No. 26. Argued April 21, 1913.-Decided December 1, 1913.
A State may lay an excise or privilege tax on conducting commercial
agencies unless it has the effect of directly violating a Federal right
such as burdening interstate commerce.
Courts will not interfere with the exercise of the taxing power of a
State on the ground that it violates the commerce clause of the
Federal Constitution unless it appears that the burden is direct
and substantial.
The license tax imposed by ยง 4224, Kentucky Statutes, 1909, on persons
or corporations having representatives in the State engaged in the
business of inquiring into and reporting upon the credit and standing
of persons engaged in business in the State, is not unconstitutional
as a burden on interstate commerce as applied to a non-resident
engaged in publishing and distributing a selected list of guaranteed
attorneys throughout the United States and having a representative
in that State.
In this case held, that the service rendered in furnishing a list of guaranteed attorneys did not, except incidentally and fortuitously, affect
interstate commerce and that it was within the power of the State
to subject the business to a license tax. Ficklen v. Shelby County,

U. S. FIDELITY CO. v. KENTUCKY.
231 U. S.

Opinion or the Court.

145 U. S. 1 followed. Internatirnal Textbook Co. v. Pigg, 217 U. S.
91, distinguished.
139 Kentucky, 27, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under the
commerce clause of the Federal Constitution of a license
tax imposed by ยง 4224 of the Kentucky statutes on
commercial agencies, as applied to non-resident agencies,
are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Allan D. Cole, with whom Mr. W. T. Cole was on
the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. James Garnett, Atto:rney General of the State of
Kentucky, with whom Mr. D. 0. Myatt was on the brief,
for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
Section 4224 of the Kentucky statutes (Carroll's ed.
1909) provides as follows:
"Before engaging in any occupation or selling any
article named in this subdivision of article 12 of this act,
the person desiring to do so shall procure license and
pay the tax thereon as follows: . . . Commercial
Agencies. Each and every person, partnership or corporation having representatives in this State, who engage
in the business of inquiring: into and reporting upon the
credit and standing of persons engaged in business in this
State, shall pay a license tax of one hundred dollars."
Plaintiff in error was indicted for failing to pay the
license tax required by this provision, and, upon trial,
was convicted and fined. The trial court, and, on appeal,
the Court of Appeals of Kentucky (139 Kentucky 27, 39),
overruled the contention that the business done by plaintiff in error was interstate commerce, within the meaning

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

of ยง8 of Article I of the Federal Constitution, and for that
reason not subject to the taxing power of the State.
The indictment was based upon the employment by,
plaintiff in error of a firm of attorneys at Maysville, Kentucky, as its representatives for inquiring into and reporting upon the credit and standing of persons engaged in
business in that State. Plaintiff in error is a corporation
of the State of Maryland, and is engaged in the publication
and distribution of a list of selected attorneys in the
United States. With the several attorneys upon the list
plaintiff in error has an arrangement by which, in consideration of a fee paid by them to it, their names are inserted, and plaintiff in error guarantees to merchants and
other persons sending claims to the attorneys that they
will promptly and faithfully pay over all moneys collected. It furnishes the list of attorneys to business men
and merchants throughout the United States. It provides
the attorneys, and also the subscribers to or purchasers
of the book, with blank forms upon which information
respecting the business and financial standing of persons
with whom a subscribing merchant desires to deal, may
be furnished, and the attorneys, upon request, make replies to inquiries of this character when received from
subscribing members. The attorneys do not make reports to the plaintiff in error, but send them direct to the
person or firm making the inquiry. The attorneys are
not the agents for either buyer or seller, in the sense that
any goods are bought or sold through their instrumentality.
Such was the business that was done by the Maysville
attorneys, as representatives of the plaintiff in error. They
did not sell or offer to sell any goods, nor deliver or offer
to deliver any, and had nothing to do with buying, selling,
transporting, delivering, or handling any -merchandise.
If any commercial transaction took place. between the
merchant whose standing was reported and the merchant
to whom the report was sent, it was due entirely to ne-

U. S. FIDELITY CO. v. KENTUCKY.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

gotiations between them, with which the reporting attorney had nothing to do. Correspondence in which the
Maysville attorneys furnished non-resident dealers with
information was only desultory and occasional, and was
not followed by the making of any contract or the transportation of any goods between the parties to the correspondence.
The' contention of plaintiff in error is that the Maysville
attorneys and its other representatives of the same kind
are, through the means of the system employed, acting
in fact as agents of merchants engaged in interstate commerce to furnish them with information through the mails
or by telephone or telegraph, as a result of which merchandise may be transported in interstate commerce, or
withheld from such transportation, according to the
character of the informatior reported; and that the service thus rendered is so cornected with interstate commerce as to preclude the State of Kentucky from enacting
a statute imposing a license tax whose tendency is or may
be to prevent plaintiff in error from operating in that
State.
The tax in question is an excise or privilege tax, and
undoubtedly within the power of the State, unless it has
the' effect of directly burdening interstate commerce. It
is only one of a great number of license taxes dealt with in
a single section of the statute, and including a great
variety of occupations. In the case of commercial agencies, the thing that is laid hold of as the subject of the
excise is a business carried on within the State. If it have
consequences extending beyond the borders of the State,
and affecting interstate commerce, these are only incidental
and fortuitous. The case is, we think, easily to be distinguished from McCall v. California, 136 U. S. 104,
and International Textbook Co. v. Pigg, 217 U. S. 91,
relied upon by plaintiff in error. in the McCall Case the
local instrumentality that was held to be exempt from

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

interference by state taxation was an agent whose business
was the direct solicitation of passengers for interstate
journeys by rail. This was clearly within the reasoning
and authority of Robbins v. Shelby Taxing District, 120
U. S. 489, and other cases of that class. In -the case
of the International Textbook Company, there was a
systematic and continuous interstate traffic in instruction
papers, textbooks, and illustrative apparatus for courses of
study pursued by means of correspondence, and this was
held to be in its essential characteristics commerce among
the States within the meaning of the Federal Constitution,
and entitled thereunder to exemption from any direct
burden imposed by state legislation.
In the present case it appears that there is not even
systematic or continuous correspondence, much less interstate commerce resulting therefrom. There is no direct or necessary connection between the service performed by plaintiff in error through its representatives
and the making or fulfillment of commercial contracts.
The most that can be said is that inquiries received by
those representatives in Kentucky with respect to the
credit and standing of persons engaged in business in that
State may be received from merchants without the State
in anticipation of commercial transactions between them
in the future. But, on the other hand, similar inquiries
may be received from merchants in Kentucky and may
have reference alone to intrastate and not to interstate
transactions. Or, the information may be desired as an
aid in extending or refusing to extend credit for past
transactions, as well as to lay the basis for future dealings.
The circumstance that in a substantial number of caseseven if in the greater number-there is correspondence,
by letter or otherwise, from State to State, which may
perhaps have an effect upon the conduct of other parties
about entering or not entering into transactions of interstate commerce, is not controlling.

STRATTON'S INDEPENDENCE v. HOWBERT.

399

Syllabus.

231 U. S.

The present case has no close parallel in former decisions,
but in some of its aspects it bears a resemblance to the
case of a tax imposed upon a resident citizen engaged in a
general business that happens to include a considerable
share of interstate business; Ficklen v. Shelby County,
145 U. S. 1. Or the business of the live stock exchange
that was under consideration in Hopkins v. United States,
171 U. S. 578, 592. Or the business of a cotton broker
dealing in futures or options. Ware v. Mobile County, 209
U. S. 405.
To warrant interference with the exercise of the taxing
power of a State on the ground that it obstructs or hampers
interstate commerce, it must appear that the burden is
direct and substantial. We do not think the present is
such a case.
Judgment affirmed.

STRATTON'S
HOWBERT,
REVENUE.

LIMITED, v.
INDEPENDENCE,
OF
INTERNAL
COLLECTOR

CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 457.

Argued October 21, :1913.-Decided December 1, 1913.

The Corporation Tax Law of August 5, 1909, c. 6, 36 Stat. 11, 112,
applies to mining corporations.

Income, within the meaning of the Corporation Tax Law of 1909, includes the proceeds of ores r!.ned by a corporation from its own
premises.
A corporation mining ores from its own premises is not entitled to deduct from the proceeds of the ores mined, by way of depreciation
under the Corporation Tax Law of 1909, the difference between the
gross proceeds of the sales of ores during the year and the moneys
.expended in extracting, mining, and marketing the ores.

