OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Case.

231 V. S.

BAKER v. WARNER.
SAME v. SAME.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
Nos. 41, 42. Argued November 5, 1913.-Decided December 22, 1913.
Motions in arrest of judgment are not favored.
In considering a motion in arrest the plaintiff will be given the benefit
of every implication that can be drawn from the pleading liberally
construed; and even if the allegations are defectively set forth or
improperly arranged, if they show facts constituting a good cause
of action the motion will be denied.
Where the defendant in a suit for libel is put on notice of extrinsic
facts surrounding the publication, and does not demur but joins
issue and goes to trial, a verdict against him cures the defects in
the complaint and a motion to arrest should not be granted.
The strict rules announced in earlier decisions in this respect have been
modified by modern and more liberal rules of pleading.
Where plaintiff in error in this court succeeded in the trial court and
was reversed in the intermediate appellate court, this court is not
limited to a consideration of the points presented but must enter the
judgment which should have been rendered by the court below on
the record before it.
Although this court reverses the order to arrest the judgment, it affirms
the ruling of the intermediate appellate court that there should be a
new trial on account of erroneous instructions on material matters.
Where the words are not libelous per se and can only be construed as
such in the light of extrinsic facts, it is for the jury not only to determine whetler the extrinsic facts exist but also whether the words
have the defamatory meaning attributed to them.
36 App. D. C. 493, reversed.

THE plaintiff, Baker, United States District Attorney
for the District of Columbia, sued the defendant, Warner,
for libel. Briefly stated, th6 complaint charges thatThe Washington Jockey Club owned a race track in

BAKER v. WARNER.
231 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

the District where races were run and bets were made and
in January, 1908, the plaintiff, as District Attorney, had
obtained from the Grand Jury an indictment charging
one Walters with betting at this race track, contrary to
the statute against gaming in the District. A demurrer
was filed which was sustained on March 11, 1908,-the
court holding that the laying of bets on horse races, at
this track, was not a violation of the act of Congress,
which as appears by reference to the statute (March 3,
1901, c. 854, 31 Stat. 1189,1331, ยง869) only prohibited such
betting and bookmaking within one mile of the boundaries
of the cities of Washington and Georgetown. The plaintiff
immediately took an.appeal from this judgment in order
that the Court of Appeals might determine whether such
betting at such place was a violation of the gaming law
of force in the District.
Shortly after the appeal, the Spring Meet of the Jockey
Club began, being advertised to continue until April 14.
On the opening days of the Meet there was book-making
and betting; but the complaint alleges that the plaintiff "conforming himself, as it was his duty to do, to the
law as judicially construed by the Supreme Court of the
District, did not issue warrants for the arrest of or present
to the Grand Jury any persons for betting on the horse
races."
It is further alleged that, at this time, Warner was a
candidate against Pearre for the nomination for Congress from Maryland, and, on March 28, Warner composed
and published, of and concerning the plaintiff and of and
concerning the office of the plaintiff, in a Washington
newspaper, a certain false and defamatory libel. The
article need not be set out at length, but the communication, after characterizing a speech by his opponent as
undignified, proceeded to say that it was not wanting
in dignity so much as for a Judge of the 'District, "who,
with the United States District Attorney (meaning the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

231 U. S.

plaintiff) went to Rockville (meaning the town of Rockville, County of Montgomery, State of Maryland) last
Saturday (meaning Saturday, the 21st day of March,
A. D. 1908) to attend a conference of Mr. Warner's (meaning defendant's) enemies and determine what ammunition
was needed to defeat him.
"The question now is, Where does the money come
from in the contest against Mr. Warner? (meaning the
defendant).
"How about the race track?
Lawyer."
"meaning thereby, . . . that the said plaintiff entered
into a conference with others for the purpose of determining what funds were necessary, and how same should be
raised, to be used in the campaign on behalf of Pearre,
and meaning . . . that the plaintiff was and is
corrupt, in not presenting to the Grand Jury and prosecuting before the courts of the District, persons laying
bets upon the contests at the race track, in consideration
of contributions of money in the contest against the defendant from some company or person interested in the
race track or the contests carried on thereon."
The defendant filed a general denial, and, after a trial,
there was a verdict in favor of the plaintiff. Motions
for a new trial and in arrest of judgment were overruled
and the case taken to the Court of Appeals, which held
not only that reversible error had been committed, but
that the judgment should have been arrested. In No. 41
i he case is here on a writ to review that ruling. To avoid
any question as to the finality of that judgment of the
Court of Appeals plaintiff sued out another writ of error
(No. 42) after the judgment had been arrested in the
trial court.
Mr. Frank J. Hogan and Mr. Henry E. Davis for
plaintiff in error.

BAKER v. WARNER.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. W. C. Sullivan and Mr. J. J. Darlington for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE LAmAR, after making the foregoing state-

ment of facts, delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff, who was Uiited States District Attorney
for the District of Columbia, sued the defendant in an
action for libel and recovered a verdict for $10,000. The
Court of Appeals (36 App. I). C. 493) held that the judgment should have been arrested, for the reaso n that the
publication Was not libelous per se and was not shown
to be defamatory by any averment of fact in the Inducement or in the Colloquium.
The publication was not libelous per se. The meaning
of the article and person to whom it referred were so am-

biguous that, in order to constitute a cause of action, it
was necessary to set out extrinsic facts, which, when
coupled with the words, would show that the writer
charged the plaintiff with corruption in office. Accordingly, the plaintiff in the Inducement averred that he was
District Attorney, charged with the duty of prosecuting
violators of the law against gaming, and, had procured
an indictment against one for betting at the Washington
Jockey Club, which indictment had been quashed and,
pending the appeal and conforming to the ruling of the
court, he had instituted no other prosecutions: That,
under these circumstances, the defendant had published
of and concerning the plaintiff, the article which is set
out in the complaint.
There were general- allegations that the article was
written concerning the plaintiff in his office as District At-

torney, together with general statements in the Innuendo
that the defendant meant to charge him with corruption in office. There was, however, no distinct averment
as to the meaning of those particul4r phrases in the publi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

cation on which the cause of action was really based. The
Court of Appeals thereupon sustained the defendant's
contention that the complaint was defective because
of the failure specifically to allege what, as a fact, the words
meant and to whom they referred. It further held that
the absence of such specific averments was not supplied
by the general statement in the Innuendo that the defendant meant to charge the plaintiff with a crime. This
was based on the rule that it is not the office of the Innuendo to set out facts, but rather to explain what is
ambiguous, or to state a conclusion which, to be effective,
must be supported by averments, definitions, references
or other facts alleged in traversible form in Inducement
and Colloquium. It is, however, unnecessary to discuss
the sufficiency of the complaint which, even if defective,
was amendable. The defendant did not demur, but joined
issue, the case was tried by a jury, a verdict for the plaintiff
was rendered, judgment was entered and the defendant
then moved in arrest.
Such motions are not favored. In considering them,
courts liberally construe the pleadings, giving the plaintiff
the benefit of every implication that can be drawn therefrom in his favor. Sentences and paragraphs may be
transposed. The allegations in one part of the complaint
may be aided by those in another and if taken together,
they show the existence of facts constituting a good cause
of action, defectively set forth or improperly arranged,
the motion in arrest will be denied.
In the present case the defendant was put on notice
of the extrinsic facts surrounding the publication. The
statements in the Innuendo, even if misplaced, may after
verdict, be, treated as substantive allegations of fact
given by transposition, their proper position in Inducement or Colloquium. The verdict cured the defects,
if any, in the complaint and made it improper to arrest
the judgment. Stanley v. Brit, 8 Tennessee, 222; Mc-

BAKER v. WARNER.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Caughry v. Wetmore, 6 Johns. 82; Brittain v. Allen, 13
N. Car. 120, 124; Tuttle v. Bishop, 30 Connecticut, 80;
Nestle v. Van Slyck, 2 Hill, 282. In answer to these decisions the defendant cites Ryan v. Madden, 12 Vermont, 51,
55, and other cases, to support his contention that the motion in arrest should have been granted. But those decisions announce what, in BIoss v. Toby, 2 Pick. 320, was
admitted to be a hard and technical rule-one which, we
think, has been modified by modern and more liberal rules
of pleading and practice in the Federal courts and in those
of most of the States.
The plaintiff, Baker, had a judgment in the trial court.
The defendant, Warner, took the case to the Court of
Appeals on various grounds, most of which were sustained.
The plaintiff then brought the case here, assigning error
on some of those rulings but not on others. We are not
limited, however, to a consideration of the points presented
by the plaintiff, but, this being a writ of error from an intermediate appellate tribunal, must enter the judgment,
which should have been rendered by the court below
on the record then before it.
While we reverse the order to arrest the judgment,
we affirm the ruling of the Court of Appeals that there
was an erroneous instruction on a matter material to the
case and harmful to the defendant. The trial judge,
summarizing the facts, chirged that if the jury found
from the evidence that plaintiff was District Attorney;
that in the District there was a race track where races
were run and bets were made, which some claimed could
have been prevented by prosecutions instituted by the
plaintiff and that he did not, in fact, prosecute such persons; if Warner was a candidate for Congress and the
plaintiff supported Pearre, his opponent, and the defendant, Warner, wrote and procured the publication of the
article set out in the complaint, "then you are instructed,
as matter of law, that the said article is libelous and your
VOL. ccxxxi-38

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

verdict should be for the plaintiff, and the only question
for your detdrmination is what amount of damages the
plaintiff is entitled to recover by reason of the publication
of said article."
This was error, since it was for the jury and not for the
court to determine the meaning of ambiguous language
in the published article. Where words are libelous per se
the Judge can so instruct the jury, leaving to them only
the determination of the amount of damages. Where the
words are not libelous ptr se and, in the light of the extrinsic facts averred could not possibly be construed to
have a defamatory meaning, the Judge can dismiss the
declaration on demurrer, or, during the trial, may withdraw the:case from the jury. But there is a middle ground
where though the words are not libelous per se, yet, in
the light of the extrinsic facts averred, they are susceptible
of being construed as having a defamatory meaning.
Whether they have such import is a question of fact.
In that class of cases the jury must not only determine
the existence of the extrinsic circumstances, which it is
alleged bring to light the concealed meaning, but they
must also determine whether those facts when coupled
with the words, make the publication libelous. Van
Vechten v. Hopkins, 5 Johns. 219. The meaning of the
words was in dispute, and as that issue of fact was not
submitted to the triers of fact, a new trial must be ordered.
This conclusion makes it unnecessary to consider the
other questions in the case.
The judgments of the Court of Appeals are reversed and the
cases are remanded to that court with directionsto reverse
the judgments of the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia and to remand the case to that court with directions to grant a new trial and for further proceedings in
conformity with this opinion.

