TINKER v. MIDLAND VALLEY CO.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

TINKER v. MIDLAND VALLEY MERCANTILE
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
OKLAHOMA.

No. 13.

Submitted October 30, 1913.-Decided January 5, 1914.

Under the provision in the Indian Appropriation Act of June 21, 1906,
c. 3504, 34 Stat. 325, 366, making it unlawful for traders on the
Osage Indian Reservation to give credit to any individual Indian
head of a family for any amount exceeding seventy-five per centum
of his next quarterly annuity, the burden of proof is on the person
taking and attempting to enforce a note to bring his claim within the
permission of the statute.
The order of pleading does not always determine the burden of proof.
While generally the payee of a note need not allege consideration in
declaring upon it, if there is conflicting evidence he has the burden of
proof.
Qucere, whether the fact that a note is very largely in excess of the
amount permitted to be given by statute does not constitute a
prima facie case against the holder even if the burden were not
upon him.
25 Oklahoma, 160, reversed.

facts, which involve the construction and application of the act of June 21;, 1906, making it unlawful for
traders on the Osage Rese:rvation to give credit beyond
a certain amount to Indians, are stated in the opinion.
THE

Mr. Charles H. Merillat for plaintiff in error.
No appearance for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action on a promissory note for $922.50 dated
September 1, 1906, against an Osage Indian residing on

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

the Osage Reservation. By the Indian Appropriation
Act of June 21, 1906, c. 3504, 34 Stat. 325, 366, it was
made "unlawful hereafter for the traders upon the Osage
Indian Reservation to give credit to any individual Indian, head of a family, to an amount greater than seventyfive per centum of the next quarterly annuity to which
such Indian will be entitled." This amended the previous
act of March 3, 1901, c. 832, 31 Stat. 1058, 1065, by which
the limit was sixty-per centum. The defendant demurred
and the demurrer having been overruled answered that
the note was given for a debt in excess of seventy-five per
cent. of the next quarterly annuity due to him after the
credit was extended and that the note exceeded that
amount. It appeared in evidence that the plaintiff, the
defendant in error, was a licensed trader with the Indians
and the defendant testified that he received as his quarterly payment forty-six dollars for each of the seven members of his family, which would be $322-in any event
much less than $922.50. It was not shown when the
credits were given. The plaintiff demurred to the evidence and the demurrer was sustained by both courts
below. 25 Oklahoma, 160.
The Supreme Court of the State put its decision on the
burden of proof, following the analogy of illegal consideration. We hardly eed consider whether proof that the
note was so largely in excess of the percentage then allowable, especially when coupled with the improbability that
the defendant ever had received in the past an annuity
so much larger as to warrant such a credit, did not constitute at least a primafacie case. The court is of opinion
that, in view of the policy of the statute, the relative position of the parties and the protection necessarily extended
to Indians, the burden was on the plaintiff not only to
bring his' claim within the permission of the statute in
fact, as he was warned by its letter that he must, but also
to prove that he had done so, in case of dispute. He occu-

TRIMBLE v. SEATTLE.
231 U. S.

Syllabus.

pied the position of advantage and that rather than formal
logic determines the burden of proof. It may be that it
lay on the defendant to plead the defense. That is a question of convenience. Burnet v. Desmornes, 226 U. S.
145, 147. But the order of pleading does not always determine the burden of proof. Generally it is not considered
necessary for the payee of a promissory note to allege
a consideration in declaring upon it, but if there is conflicting evidence he has the burden of proof. Delano v.
Bartlett, 6 Cush. 364; Burnham v. Allen, 1 Gray, 496.
Judgment reversed.

TRIMBLE v. CITY OF SEATTLE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
WASHINGTON.

No. 108.

Argued December V, 1913.-Decided January 5, 1914.

The state court having declared the policy of the State as excluding
a constructive obligation to indemnify against the exercise of the
sovereign power of taxation from leases given by the State, this
court will not overthrow it.
In ordinary cases of leased property, whether the lessor or lessee shall
bear the burden of taxation is not a matter of public concern, but an
obligation not to tax property leased by the State is a restriction of
public import not lightly to be imposed.
In this case held, that the imposing of assessments for benefits on property in Seattle leased by the State of Washington is not an unconstitutional impairment of an implied covenant in the lease that the
lessor will pay assessments.
Whether landlords or tenants shall pay taxes and assessments on leased
property is a matter of private arrangement, and compelling tenants
of the State to pay them does not deny them equal protection of the
law because there may be a practice the other way in private leases.
Qucere, whether exemption from taxation would not create a favored
class and thus deny equal protection to other property owners.

