PENNELL v. PHILA. & READING RY.
231 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

their powers and rights from the national enactment.
The reports of the Department of Commerce and Labor
are quoted from, which, it is contended, exhibit by their
statistics and recommendations the necessity of national

control.

State decisions expressing a contrary view are

frankly cited. This contrariety of opinion we need not
further exhibit by a review of the cases. We have expressed our construction of the act, and it is entirely consonant with the purpose of the act and national control
over naturalization.

Judgment affirmed.

PENNELL, ADMINISTRATRIX, v. PHILADELPHIA
& READING RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 469. Argued December 3, 1913.-Decided January 5, 1914.
Quwre, and not decided on this record, whether the purpose of the
Safety Appliance Act is to protect all employ~s of every class and the
mere absence of an automatic coupler is enough for liability if
accident and injury result to an employ6.
Under the Safety Appliance Act of March 2, 1893, c. 196, 27 Stat. 531,
as amended March 2, 1903, c. 976, 32 Stat. 943, automatic couplers
are not required between the locomotive and the tender.
While a custom of railroads cannot -justify a violation of a mandatory
statute, a custom which has the sanction of the Interstate Commerce
Commission is persuasive of the meaning of that statute.
203 Fed. Rep. 681, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of the Safety

Appliance Acts and their application to tenders of locomotives, are stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

Mr. George Demming for plaintiff in error.
Mr. William Clarke Mason, with whom Mr. Charles
Heebner was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MKENNA delivered the opinion of the

court.
Action for $50,000 damages brought by plaintiff in
error, herein called plaintiff, against defendant in error,
the Philadelphia & Reading Railway Company, herein
called defendant, in the District Court of the United States,
Eastern District of Pennsylvania. It was tried to a jury
which, under the direction of the court, rendered a verdict

for defendant. Judgment was duly entered upon the verdict and it was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
Defendant is a common carrier engaged in interstate

commerce. The intestate of plaintiff was employed by
it in the capacity of fireman on one of its locomotives, and,
it is alleged, came to his death by the failure of defendant
to comply with the requirements of the Safety Appliance
Acts of Congress and the rules and directions of the
Interstate Commerce Commission formulated and proclaimed thereunder, in that defendant failed to affix
between the locomotive and its tender an automatic
coupling device. The action is prosecuted under the
act of April 22, 1908, c. 149, 35 Stat. 65, as amendcd
April 5, 1910, c. 143, 36 Stat. 291, relating to the liability
of common carriers by railroad engaged in interstate
commerce to their employ~s while so engaged.
The train was composed of forty-four cars, some loaded
and some empty, and the engine, tender and caboose. The
coupling between the cars was automatic, that between
the engine and the tender was a draw-bar and pin. The
pin broke in consequence of the air hose breaking or
parting between the first and second cars from the caboose,
thereby setting the brakes. on the whole train. By the

PENNELL v. PHILA. & READING RY.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

breaking of the coupling between the tender and the engine, Pennell, plaintiff's intestate, was thrown from the
train upon the track and killed on December 31, 1911.
The train at the time of the accident was going about fifteen miles an hour.
The act of Congress provides (27 Stat. 531, ยง 2): "It
shall be unlawful for any such common carrier [railroad
engaged in interstate conimerce] to haul or permit to be
hauled or used on its line any car used in moving interstate
traffic not equipped with couplers coupling automatically
by impact, and which can be uncoupled without the necessity of men going between the ends of the cars."
The first contention of plaintiff is that the primary
object of the act is, quoting from its title, "to promote the
safety of employds and travelers upon railroads," and
that, therefore, the language of the act "should be so
applied and construed in matters relating to the protection
of railroad workmen as to specific railroad accidents."
In other words, the purpose of the act, it is contended, is to
protect all employ6s, of whatever class, and the mere
absence of an automatic coupler, if accident and injury
result to an employS, is enough for liability. But plaintiff does not quote all of the title. The complete title is
(27 Stat. 531), An Act to promote the safety of employ~s
and travelers upon railroads by compelling common carriers engaged in interstate commerce to equip their cars
with automatic couplers and continuous brakes and their
locomotives with driving-wheel brakes, and for other
purposes." The provision, of the act correspond to the
purpose declared in the title and may be applied distributively to the protection of employ6 or traveler or to
employds according to their, employment.
But even if the act has the broad purpose asserted, which
we need not decide, we are brought to the question, Is the
tender of a locomotive a car Within the meaning of the
statute?

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

Plaintiff asserts the affirmative of the question and cites
Johnson v. Southern Pacific Co., 196 U. S. 1, and a number
of state decisions. The case does not so decide. It does
decide that the locomotive is a car within the meaning of
the act. No distinction was made between it and the
tender; the latter was deemed integral with the locomotive. In other words, tender and engine were considered
as constituting the locomotive. Necessarily a locomotive
thus constituted was decided to be a "car" within the
meaning of the act and necessarily had to be coupled with
the cars, which constituted the train. And in this necessity the dangers to employ~s would occur which the act
was intended to prevent. Any other construction would
have left the act denuded of some of its value. In other
words, there would have been only a partial enforcement
of its protection in instances where protection was oftenest
needed. To omit the locomotive, composed of engine and
tender--and it was considered as so composed in the
cited case-was to omit part of a train which was within
all the mischiefs of the act and therefore covered by its
remedies. No such conditions exist in the present case.
Engine and tender are a single thing; separable, it may be,
but neVer separated in their ordinary and essential use.
The connection between them, that is, between the engine
and tender, it was testified, was in the nature of a permanent coupling, and it was also testified that there was
practically no opening between the engine and tender,
afid that attached to the engine was a draw-bar Which
fitted in the yoke of the tender, and the pin was dropped
down to connect draw-bar and yoke. The necessary
deduction from this is that no dangerous position was
assumed by an employ6 in coupling the engine and
tender for the reason that the pin was dropped through
the bar from the tank of the tender. The case at bar,
therefore, is not brought either within the mischief or the
remedy of the act.

PENNELL v. PHILA. & READING RY.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The evidence established that it is not the custom of
railroads to use an automatic coupler between the engine
and tender. Some roads, however, use two additional or
supplemental draw-bars, called radial bars, one on each
side of the main bar, while on other roads it is almost the
standard practice, instead of the supplemental bars, to
use chains secured to the back heads of the locomotive
and hooked to the tender on each side of the center. The
record does not disclose whether there were either such
bars or chains connecting the engine and tender. But
even if their absence may be inferred, it is not relied on as
a ground of negligence.
It is further contended by plaintiff that the necessity of
an automatic coupler between engine and tender is determined by the amendment of the act of March 2, 1893,
c. 196, 27 Stat. 531, enacted March 2, 1903, c. 976, 32
Stat. 943. It may be necessary, it is said, under the
statute of 1893, to "bring the word 'tender' within the
definition of the word 'car,"' but that this "istotally
unnecessary when we come to consider and apply the
subsequent statutes, because here we find the word 'tender' specifically used, and used, too, in evident contradistinction to the words 'locomotives' and 'cars."' The
amendment repeats the title of the prior acts, provides
that their provisions "shall apply in all cases, whether or'
not the couplers brought together are of the same kind,
make or type," and that their provisions and requirements, including automatic couplers, "shall be held to
apply to all trains, locomotives, tenders, cars, and similar
vehicles used on any railroad engaged in interstate commerce." But this act does not destroy the integrity of
the locomotive and tender. It is entirely satisfied by
requiring the automatic coupler between the tender and
the cars constituting the train, that is, to the rear end of
the tender. And this requirement fulfills the purpose of
the statute, which, we have seen, does not regard the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

strength of the connections between the cars, even if it
may be supposed that an automatic coupler is the stronger,
but does regard safety in making and unmaking the
connections. This being kept in mind, the construction of
the statute is not difficult. And the construction of the
statute is the main concern. If it is not mandatory, as we
think it is not, of an automatic coupler between the
engine and the tender, the contentions of plaintiff are
without foundation. We need not refer to them with
further detail except to say that the custom of the railroads could not, of course, justify a violation of the
statute, but that custom, having the acquiescence of the
Interstate Commerce Commission, is persuasive of the
meaning of the statute.
Under the various safety appliance acts the Commission
is charged with the duty of prosecuting violations of them
which come to its knowledge, and by the Sundry Civil
Appropriation Act of June 28, 1902, c. 1301, 32 Stat.
419, 444, the Commission was authorized to employ inspectors to execute and enforce the requirements of the
acts. It is of special significance, therefore, that in its
order under the act of April 14, 1910, c. 160, 36 Stat. 298,
which was supplemental of the other acts, designating
the number, dimensions, location and manner of application of certain appliances, it provided as follows: "Couplers: Locomotives shall be equipped with automatic
couplers at rear of tender and front of locomotive." That
is, couplers were required where danger might be incurred
by the employ6s.
The state decisions cited by plaintiff to. sustain her
definition of a car, we do not think it is necessary to review. They are all cited in Johnson v. Southern Pacific
Co., supra. They applied the principle which we have
applied and construed the statutes passed on according
to the objects which the statutes were intended to secure.
Judgment affirmed.

