LITTLE v. WILLIAMS.
231 U. S.

Syl~abus.

and the claimant should not be denied the right to have
its claim, thus considered, adjudicated. In this view,
the petition would be susceptible of amendment and its
sufficiency, in law and fact, could be heard and determined.
We express no opinion upon the merits of the claim,
in this aspect, as they are not before us, the court below
having declined to take jurisdiction. But as we think
there was jurisdiction to pass upon the claim under the
limitations above stated, the judgment will be reversed and
the cause remanded with instructions to the court below to
take further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
It is so ordered.

LITTLE v. WILLIAMS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS.

No. 8.

Submitted October 30, 1913.-Decided December 1, 1913.

In this case, held that the interpretation by the State Court of a stipulation of counsel was not open to review in this court as not raising
any Federal question although there were Federal questions involved
in the case.
The Swamp-Land Act of September 28, 1850, c. 84, 9 Stat. 919, did not
in itself operate to invest the States with swamp, and overflowed
lands. While the act was a grant in prmsenti and gave an inchoate
title, identification and patent were necessary to vest fee simple title
in the State.
A duly legalized agreement between a State and the United States that
the former accepts lands theretofore patented to it under the SwampLand Act as its full measure of land due thereunder extinguishes
whatever inchoate title it or any of its political subdivisions may
have in any swamp lands not already patented to it.
A levee district is a mere political subdivision of the State creating it
and is bound by the action of the State; and so held that a relinquishment by the State of Arkansas of all lands in Which it had merely an
inchoate title under the Swamp-Lanid Act operated also to relinquish

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

the title thereto of the levee districts to which the State had previously conveyed such lands. Rogers Locomotive Works v. Emigrant
Company, 164 U. S. 559.
88 Arkansas, 37, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of the SwampLand Act of 1850 and the title to certain lands in Arkansas, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Henry Craft for plaintiff in error.
No counsel appeared for defendants in error.
Mr. Solicitor General Davis for the United States as
amicus curie.
MR. JUSTICE VAN

DEVANTER

delivered the opinion

of the court.
This was a suit to quiet the title to about 1,200 acres
of land in Mississippi County, in the State of Arkansas,
lying within the meander line of what was represented on
the plats of the Uiited States survey as Walker's lake.
The plaintiff claimed title through (a) the act of Congress
of September 28, 1850, 9 Stat. 519, c. 84, granting swamp
and overflowed lands to the State, (b) an act of the state
legislature in 1893 (Laws Ark. 1893, p. 172) granting to the
St. Francis Levee District "all the lands of this State"
lying within that district, and (c) a deed of March 11,
1903, from the levee district to the plaintiff. The defendants, in addition to denying the plaintiff's title, asserted
title in themselves in virtue of their ownership, under
swamp-land patents from the United States to the State
and from the State to their grantors, of fractional sections
abutting on the meander line of the lake. After a trial, the
chancery court of the county entered a*decree dismissing
the complaint on the merits, and the decree was affirmed
by the Supreme Court of the State. 88 Arkansas, 37.

LITTLE v. WILLIAMS.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The material facts, due regard being had for the findings of the Supreme Court, are these: The lands in the
vicinity of Walker's lake were surveyed, in 1847, into
two fractional townships, made so by meandering and
excluding what the surveyor designated as the lake; but
the meander line, instead of approximately following
the margin of the actual lake, a small non-navigable
body of water, was run about a mile distant therefrom,
along a slash or slough which the surveyor probably
mistook for the outer portion of the lake. The land in
controversy, although then wet and swampy, as were
also the lands outside the meander line, was not part of
the bed of the lake, but lay between its bank, which was
well defined, and the meander line. After the enactment of
the Swamp-Land Act, the surveyed lands in the two townships were listed by the Secretary of the Interior as swamp
lands and were patented to the State under that act, and
the fractional sections abutting. on the meander line and
opposite the land in controversy were then patented by
the State to the defendants' grantors. The unsurveyed
land within the meander line was never selected by the
State, or listed by the Secretary of the Interior, as swamp
or overflowed land; nor was it ever patented to the State.
As part of a compromise and settlement between the
State and the United States, negotiated in 1895 and approved by the state legislature in 1897 and by Congress in
1898, the State, subject to certain exceptions not here material, accepted the lands theretofore patented, approved
or confirmed to it under the Swamp-Land Act as the
full measure of lands due to it thereunder, and relinquished
to the United States all other claims or demands, adjusted
or unadjusted, growing out of that act. Senate Report
No. 76, 54th Cong., 1st Sess.; Laws Ark., 1897, p. 88; 30
Stat. 367, c. 229.
In disposing of the case the Supreme Court of the
State, after observing that the plaintiff must recover,. if
VOL. ccxxxi-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

at all, upon the strength of her own title, and not upon
the weakness of that of her adversaries, held (a) that, as
the land in controversy had not been selected, listed or
patented as swamp or overflowed land under the SwampLand Act, the title thereto remained in the United States,
unless it had passed to the State-as a riparian owner in
virtue of the patents for the adjoining fractional sections;
(b) that if the title had so passed to the State it in like
manner had passed thence with those sections to the defendants' grantors prior to the grant of 1.893 to the levee
district; and (c) that in view of the State's relinquishment
under the compromise and settlement of 1895, the plaintiff, as a subsequent vendee of the district, was not in a
position to question the riparian rights asserted by the
defendants.
In the chancery court it was stipulated by counsel, for
the purpose of avoiding the production of other evidence
upon the subject, that "the townships including Walker's
lake, as meandered on the map," were listed by the Secretary of the Interior as swamp lands and patented to the
State under the Swamp-Land Act, and one of the controverted questions in the Supreme Court was whether this
stipulation, rightly interpreted, meant that the listing
and patenting embraced all the lands which would have
been within the two townships if the township and subdivisional lines had been extended over the area represented on the plat as the lake, or only the surveyed lands,
that is, those lying without the meander line. The court,
having recourse to the plats of the survey as produced
in evidence (which represented the townships as fractional
by reason of the exclusion of the meandered area from the
survey), as also to the Government's well known practice
of patenting lands . according to the legal subdivisions
shown upon the plats, held that the stipulation should
be taken as referring to the fractional townships, and not
to the unsurveyed lands within the meander line; and in

LITTLE v. WILLIAMS.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that connection it was said: "'It is evident that the patties
meant only the surveyed lands appearing on the plat,
leaving all questions as to the character of the unsurveyed territory and title thereto open to further proof

and adjudication." This is assigned as error, but as no
Federal question was involved, but only the proper interpretation of a stipulation of counsel, the ruling is not
open to review by this court. It is not as if the patents
had been in evidence and the question had been one of
their interpretation or legal. import. See French-Glenn
Live Stock Co. v. Springer, 185 U. S. 47, 54.
In view of the finding that the land in controversy was
never patented to the State, it will be perceived that a
pivotal question in the case is, whether the Swamp-Land
Act of 1850 in itself operated to invest the State with the
title in any such sense as to be of present avail to the plaintiff. The state. court answered the question in the negative, and the correctness of that ruling is now to be passed
upon.
Although the terms of the first section of the act denote
a present grant to the State of the "swamp and overflowed lands, made unfit thereby for cultivation," the
second section lays upon the Secretary of the Interior the
duty of identifying and listing the lands coming within the
terms of the grant and of causing patents therefor to be
issued to the State "at the request of" its Governor, and
then declares: "and on that patent the fee simple to said
lands shall vest in the said State," subject to the disposal
of its legislature. It became necessary, in Rogers Locomotive Works v. Emigrant Company, 164 U. S.559. to determine the meaning and effect of the act in the light of
these provisions and of prior decisions, and it was there
said (p. 570): "While, therefore, as held in many cases,
the act of 1850 was in prosenti, and gave an inchoate
title, the lands needed to be identified as lands that passed
under the act; which being (lone, and not before, the title

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.

Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

became perfect as of the date of the granting act." And
again (p. 574): "It belonged to him [the Secretary of the
Interior], primarily, to identify all lands that were to go to
the State under the act of 1850. When he made such
identification, then, and not before, the State was entitled
to a patent, and 'on such patent' the fee simple title vested
in the State. The State's title was at the outset an inchoate one, and did not become perfect, as of the date
of the act, until a patent was issued." What was there
said has since been regarded as the settled law upon the
subject. Michigan Land & Lumber Co. v. Rust, 168 U. S.
589, 592; Brown v. Hitchcock, 173 U. S.473, 476; Niles
v. Cedar Point Club, 175 U. S.300, 308; Ogden v. Buckley,
116 Iowa, 352; Birch v. Gillis, 67 Missouri, 102; Carr v.
Moore, 119 Iowa, 152, 159.
As this land was never so identified, and, so far as
appears, its identification was never even requcsted by the
State, it follows that, even if at the date of the act the
land was in fact swamp or overflowed, the. State never
acquired more than an inchoate title to it, a claim which
was imperfect both at law and in equity.
We have seen that by the compromise and settlement of
1895, which was approved by the state legislature and by
Congress, the State accepted the lands theretofore patented, approved or confirmed to it under the SwampLand Act as the full measure of lands due to it thereunder,
and relinquished to the United States all other claims or
demands, adjusted or unadjusted, growing out of that
act. Without any doubt this extinguished the State's
inchoate title and estopped the State from thereafter
asserting that title or demanding a patent.
Assuming that the inchoate title had then passed to the
levee district under the act of 1893, was the district in any
better situation than the State? The answer turns upon
the relation of the one to the other. The district was a
mere political subdivision of the State, created by the

MONSON v. SIMONSON.
231 U. S.

Syllabus.

latter, Anc invested with authority to construct and maintain levees to protect lands within its limits from overflow
by the waf;ers of the Mississippi River, and to levy and
colie ,t taxes and take other measures to that end. Laws
Ark., 1893, pp. 24, 119. It was essentially a subordinate
agency of the State, was exercising a power of the State
for its convenience, could have no will contrary to the will
of the State, held its property and revenue for public
purposes, and was in all respects subject to the State's
paramount authority. In view of this relation, we are
quite clear that the State's action was binding upon the
district, and that the latter could not by its subsequent
deed to the plaintiff invest her with a title which it no
longer possessed. In this respect the case is not distinguishable from Rogers Locomotive Works v. Emigrant Company, 164 U. S. 559, 576, 577.
We conclude, therefore, that the plaintiff was without
title and could not maintain the suit. This renders it
unnecessar 'r to consider whether, in point of Federal law,
the riparian rights asserted by the defendants are ill or
well founded.
Decree affirmed.

MONSON v. SIMONSON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH
DAKOTA.
No. 14.

Submitted October 30, 1913.-Decided December 1, 1913.

Restrictions on alienation imposed by ยง 5 of the act of February 8,
1887, 24 Stat. 388, c. 119, on an illotment to a Sisseton and Walipeton
Indian remained until the actual issuing of patent carrying full and
unrestricted title, and were not removed instantly on its passage
by an act of Congress permitting the Secretary of the Interior to
issue such a patent.

