TORRES v. LOTHROP.
231 U. S.

Syllabus.

"But, as thus stated, the proposition presents a purely
moot question. The plaintiff in error has no interest to
assert that the statute is unconstitutional because it
might be construed so as to cause it to violate the Constitution. His right is limited solely to the inquiry whether in
the case which he presents the effect of applying the
statute is to deprive him of his property without due
process of law."
As none of the objections advanced in the complaint
against the defendant's tax title appears to have been well
taken, we think the demurrer was rightly sustained.
Decree affirmed.

TORRES v. LOTHROP, LUCE & COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM AND IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF
PORTO RICO.

No. 17.

Argued October 31, 1913.-Decided December 1, 1913.

The due process clause of the Federal Constitution does not control
mere forms of procedure provided only the fundamental require-

ments of notice and opportunity to defend are afforded. Louisville &
Nashville R. R. Co. v. Schmidt, 177 U. S. 230.
Where the appellate court is without authority to consider errors of the
trial court, which were not there assigned, this court cannot reverse
the appellate court for error in iot deciding matters which it had no
authority to pass on.
Although proceeds of a crop received by a mortgagee of the land may
by law be imputed to payment of interest on the mortgage and not
to other advances, they may, under a special contract with the
mortgagor and by his subsequent acquiescence, be applied to payment of advances instead of interest.
In the absence of clear conviction of error, this court follows the conclusions of the court below in applying the local law.
One who has transferred his mortgaged premises by deed recorded prior
to the foreclosure suit cannot set the foreclosure aside on the ground

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Appellant and Plaintiff in Error.

231 V. S.

that the court excluded testimony offered to show that the transfer
was fictitious and that he was still the owner and entitled to notice.
16 Porto Rico 172, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the validity of a sale of real
estate in Porto Rico made in judicial proceedings for the
foreclosure of a mortgage, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. C. M. Boerman for appellant and plaintiff in error:
This court has jurisdiction on this appeal, as the property claimed and involved is far exceeding the value of
$5,000. Royal Ins. Co. v. Martin, 192 U. S. 149.
The summary proceedings under the mortgage law of
Porto Rico are contrary to the provisions of the Constitution of the United States.
There is really no defense to the proceedings on a
mortgage under this law. The mortgagor cannot have
his day in court. The court virtually does not act as a
court, but simply as an executive officer would act. It
deprives a man of his property without due process of law.
The general guarantees of life, liberty and property
contained in the Constitution of the United States apply
to Porto Rico. Downes v. Bidwell, 182 U. S.277.
All the laws in force in Porto Rico are so only through
the act of Congress which declared them so to be after the
change of sovereignty. Article 8, Organic Act of April 12,
1900.
For definitions given by this court to the words "due
process of law" see Hovey v. Elliot, 167 U. S.409; Simon v.
Craft, 182 U. S. 427. See also Health Department v.
Trinity Church, 17 N. Y. 510, 512; Stuart v. Palmer, 74
N. Y. 183, 189; Ieck v. Anderson, 57 California, 251, 253.
The rule of justice which forbids the taking of property
except according to the law of the land, means that there
shall be no taking, no condemnation, before hearing.
First Nat. Bank v. Swan, 3 Wyoming, 356. See also

TORRES v. LOTHROP.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

People v. Essex County Supr's, 70 N. Y. 228, 234; Wright
v. Cradlebaught, 3 Nevada., 341, 349; State v. Cutshall,
110 N. Car. 538; Lumberin.7 Co. v. Wasco County, 35 Oregon, 498; Simmons v. West. Un. Tel. Co., 63 S. Car. 525;
Bennet v. Davis, 90 Maine, 102; Babcock v. City of Buffalo,
Sheld. 317, 340.
Judicial orders or judgments affecting the life or property of citizens in the absence of notice and opportunity to
be heard to the party affected, are violative of the fundamental principles of our laws, and cannot be sustained.
In re Rosser, 101 Fed. Rep. 562, 567; Holden v. Harvey,
167 U. S. 366; Jensen v. Union Pac. Ry. Co., 6 Utah, 253;
In re Jensen, 59 N. Y. 653, 1355; San Mateo v. So. Pac. Ry.
Co., 13 Fed. Rep. 722, 752.
The provisions of the mortgage law itself were not complied with in the proceedings to foreclose the mortgage and
therefore those proceedings are null and void.
Mr. Malcolm Donald for appellees and defendants in
error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHImE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The plaintiff in error, Marcelino Torres Zayas, in January, 1908, brought this suit to set aside a sale of real estate,
made in judicial proceedings, of a summary or executory
character, for the foreclosure of a mortgage and to recover
the property with fruits, revenues and damages. The right
to the relief sought was based, broadly speaking, upon the
following grounds: a, the prematurity of the suit to foreclose because there was nothing due when the proceedings
were commenced; b, the absence of a necessary party;
c, vices in the proceedings, of such a character as to cause
them to be absolutely void. The trial court dismissed the
suit. On appeal, the Supreme Court of Porto Rico

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

affirmed and it is to reverse such judgment that the writ'df
error and the appeal in this record were prosecuted.
Having the power to review only by appeal, (Garzot v.
de Rubio, 209 U. S. 283) the writ of error is dismissed and
we consider the case on the appeal.
The court below directed attention to the slovenly and
ill arranged record, but despite its admonition nothing
seems to have been done to re-arrange the record for the
purposes of review by this court. We are not authorized
to reexamine the evidence, but a statement of facts made
by the court below, and in a case where there was no such
statement our duty would be to affirm because it would
be impossible to decide that error had been committed.
There is a statement of facts in the record, but it is unsatisfactory in many respects since in matters which are
important it is silent where it should speak and in negligible matters speaks with unnecessary prolixity,; being confusedly arranged and in important particulars but states
evidentiary facts without any attempt to find the ultimate
fact properly to be deduced from the stated evidence.
We mention these subjects in order to direct the attention
of the court below to them and to avoid the making of like
statements of fact in the future. As the court delivered a
full opinion which throws light on the statement and as in
substance our conclusion will be rested upon documents
which are uncontroverted and facts which are clearly
found by the court below and are undisputed, we come
to dispose of the case, giving, as a prelude, a statement
which we deem necessary to an understanding of the
-matters for decision.
Torres owed a debt of $47,000 to W. S. H. Lothrop
which Torres had assumed in 1898 on the purchase of
certain real estate upon which the debt was secured by a
conventional mortgage. The firm of De Ford & Company had acquired this debt from Lothrop, and in February, 1901, gave- Torres an extension of four years to

TORRES v. LOTHROP.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

February, 1905, new notes being furnished as evidence of
the debt bearing ten per cent. interest payable annually
and the notes being secured by a conventional mortgage
on two pieces of property belonging to Torres and upon a
third piece belonging to a commercial firm who intervened
in the act and mortgaged its property to secure the debt
of Torres. By the ninth clause of the act of mortgage it
was agreed that the crops made by Torres on the property
mortgaged by him, should be shipped to De Ford & Company who should sell them, applying the proceeds first to
the interest and then to the principal of the debt. The
mortgage, while indivisible as between the parties, was
as to third persons made divisible, a specific portion of the
debt being assigned to each of the three properties. The
original mortgage due by Torres was cancelled and erased
on the' execution of the new one. The crops were shipped
to De Ford & Company in 1902 and 1903, and were sufficient to pay the interest. In the crop year 1904, Torres
solicited advances from De Ford and Company to enable
him to make his crop, and acceding to his request the firm
either directly advanced or paid off advances made by
others, charging the same to Torres. When the crops
came in and were sold, their proceeds were inadequate to
pay these advances and the interest. They were imputed
primarily to the advances leaving the interest unpaid, this
being done with the assent of Torres, who had monthly
accounts rendered him and made no objection whatever to
the debiting of advances or the imputation of payment'
The interest for 1904 remained unpaid and a suit to foreclose the mortgage was commenced by a summary, or
executory process in accordance with the local mortgage
law. There was filed with this suit a certificate reciting
that the mortgaged property stood upon the public records
in the name of Torres, this certificate having been issued
by the registering office a day or two before the commencement of the suit. On the day the foreclosure suit was filed,

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

whether before or after does not appear, Torres sold the
property to Alvarado for a small sum in cash and a large
amount secured by mortgage and this deed of sale was
put upon the registry before any cautionary notice of the
suit was, or could have been recorded. Conformably to
law, the court ordered a demand made upon Torres notifying him of the suit and calling upon him to pay the debt
within thirty days, in default of which, the property would
be sold. Although he was served with this notice, Torres
ostensibly took no heed of the proceedings, but Alvarado
as the registered owner of the property filed a petition to
enjoin the foreclosure proceedings on grounds which,
although they are not fully set out in the record, it is
conceded were substantially identical with those here
relied upon. No injunction was granted and the suit
having been twice called for hearing, was dismissed for
want of prosecution. An order for the seizure of the property was in due season awarded by the court, as was also
another order stating the amount of the debt and directing
the sale of the property. It was seized, advertised and
sold by the marshal and bought in by one Rosaly, who
assumed the mortgage sued upon in the foreclosure proceedings and paid a small cash price. It then developed
that the deed to Alvarado which was on the records was an
insurmountable obstacle to the completion of the purchase
made by Rosaly under the foreclosure and in those proceedings he began what was tantamount to an hypothecary action against Alvarado as a third possessor to compel him to pay the mortgage debt or cancel the inscription
of his deed of purchase. Alvarado appeared in these
proceedings, admitted that he could not pay the mortgage
debt and could not hold the property unless he did, that
he had brought his suit to enjoin and had intentionally
abandoned the same and consented to the erasure of the
inscription of his deed of sale. This being done, the
marshal made a deed to Rosaly in confirmation of the

TORRES- v. LOTHROP.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

foreclosure sale, which was duly inscribed. Subsequently,
Rosaly having given a mortgage in favor of the firm of
De Ford, Luce & Company who were the successors in
right of De Ford & Company, by legal proceedings obtained an erasure of the inscription of the Torres mortgage
Which he, Rosaly; had assumed at the foreclosure sale on
the ground that the same had been discharged.
A little more than a year after, that is, on the twentieth
of April, 1907, Torres and Alvarado, in a notarial act,
rescinded the sale which had apparently taken place
between them, it being recited in the act that the rescission
was the result of an agreement which had taken place
between the parties in 1905 and that it was caused by the
refusal of the wife of Alvarado to join in the mortgage
which was given by him in the deed of sale.
Eight months afterwards, as we have seen, in January, 1908, Torres commenced this suit upon the general
grounds which we have at the outset outlined. The assignments of error which are relied upon to reverse the judgment, affirming the action of the trial court, in dismissing
the suit, are nineteen in number. While we think their
inherent weakness is apparent from the facts which we
have just stated, we briefly notice them.
1st. The summary or executory process provided by the
mortgage law, which was followed in foreclosing the
Torres mortgage, it is insisted was so deficient in notice or
so wanting in opportunity to defend as to cause that law
to be repugnant to the due process clause of the Constitution of the United States. Without pausing to apply the
elementary doctrine that the due process clause does not
control the mere forms of procedure provided only the
fundamental requirements of notice and opportunity to
defend are afforded (Louisville & Nashville Railroad Co. v.
Schmidt, 177 U. S. 230), and without stopping to indicate
how clearly these fundamental rights were provided for as
demonstrated by the facts which we have enumerated, wo
VOL. ccxxxi-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.,

231 U. S.

think it suffices to say that it does not appear that the
contention of want of due process was urged either upon
the trial court, or was assigned as error in the court below,
or was passed upon by that court. And as in its opinion
in this case concerning another subject the court below
pointed out that it was without authority to consider
errors complained of which were not presented to the trial
court, it follows that in any view, it could not be held that
the court below erred in deciding a matter which it did
not decide and which it had no authority to pass upon.
2nd. It is contended that the ninth clause of the act of
mortgage of 1901 was mandatory and prohibited the firm
of De Ford & Company from advancing to Torres, at his
request, money to make his crop for the year 1904, and
therefore such advances were not properly chargeable
against the proceeds of the crop and hence the interest
was paid because the whole proceeds of the crop, if so
imputed, disregarding the advances, would have been
adequate to have paid the interest. But we think the
court below was right in refusing to sustain this fictitious
payment of interest or to uphold the construction of the
contract upon which it was based. We concur with the
court below that the contract did not exclude the right of
the firm to advance to Torres at his request, sums to aid
him in making a crop and thus to enable him to carry out
instead of disregarding the letter and the spirit of tie contract. This view, of course, disposes of the contention that
error was committed in admitting proof of the agreement
to make the advances and of their receipt by Torres and
his acquiescence in and approval of the accounts which
were rendered him on the subject.
3rd. It is urged, although Torres was fully informed of
the institution of the foreclosure proceedings by the
demand made upon him under the order of court, conformably to the mortgage law, and had the opportunity to

defend afforded by that law, nevertheless the proceedings

TORRES v. LOTHROP.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

were void because no copy of the petition of foreclosure and
citation, as provided by the Code of Civil Procedure in
ordinary cases, was issued and served. The contention
is based upon the propositiorL that the Code of Procedure
in force at the time the suit to foreclose was brought to the

extent that it directed service of citation and summons in
ordinary cases was cumulative and applicable to proceedings under the mortgage law, because not incompatible
with such law. But construing and applying the local
law the court below held that this contention was without
merit, a conclusion which we follow in the absence of a
clear conviction that error was committed, which is far
from being the case, and because in any event, for reasons
which we shall hereafter state, the contention was additionally without merit.
4th: We group under this paragraph all the other
errors relied upon, specifying only those which we consider
of importance: a, That the wife of Torres as a widow in
community was not made a party defendant in the foreclosure suit; b, that the notes secured by the mortgage were
not annexed to the petition to foreclose or filed therewith;
c, that the order of the court directing the notice of demand
was signed only by two out of the three judges composing
the court, and by an attorney at law who was then acting
as judge because of the recusation of a member of the
court; d, because the act of mortgage did not contain a
specification of value or appraisement for the purposes of
foreclosure; e, because of an asserted defect in the advertisement which preceded the sale; f, because of the absence
from the foreclosure record of the order finding the amount
due and directing its payment. The court disposed of all
these objections separately upon considerations oi local
Iaw which we see no reason to reverse, but which we do not
refer to in detail, because, in addition it held them all
untenable upon a general and we think, conclusive ground
to which we refer.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

It is not challenged, as pointed out by the court, that
under the law of Porto Rico the state of the public record
as to title is the dominant factor controlling proceedings
for the foreclosure of a mortgage and therefore that the
one in whose name a property stands, recorded upon the
public records, -is the essential party to a proceeding to
foreclose. Nothing could better illustrate the correctness
of these propositions than do the proceedings in this case,
since in consequence of the existence of the registry of the
title in Alvarado, resulting from the sale made to him by
Torres, the foreclosure proceedings against Torres and the
judicial sale thereunder were inefficacious to transmute the
title and it became essential for Rosaly, the purchaser at
to commence proceedings to enforce the mortsuch
gage sale,
as against Alvarado as a third possessor. Applying
these principles the court held, in view of the existence of
the record title in Alvarado, of his suit to restrain the foreclosure proceeding and its dismissal for want of prosecution, of the steps taken against him as a third possessor and
his admissions on the subject and consent to the erasure of
the inscription of hi title, that the foreclosure proceedings
were binding and it was not open to Torres who so far
as the record was concerned had parted with his title, to
assail them on the grounds which we have stated. The
correctness of the premise and of the conclusion itself
abstractly considered is not denied, but it is insisted that
they are here inapplicable because the sale made by Torres
to Alvarado was a mere fiction or simulation and one of the
matters complained of which we have not specified is that
error was committed in refusing to permit proof of the
simulation.
The court below, however, considered and disposed of
the alleged distinction in so conclusive and succinct a
manner that we adopt and place our own conclusion
upon it:
"Alvarado was the record owner and the ostensible

NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. CO. v. HOUSTON.
231 U. S.

181

Statement of the Case.

owner. He not only had a duly recorded public document
in his favor, but he had begun a suit similar to the present
one and this course of aclion was inconsistent with the
possession by anyone else.
"The appellant complains that the court erred in not
permitting him to show that the conveyance made from
Torres Zayas to Alvarado was fictitious or simulated and
that the real party in interest was always Torres Zayas.
We cannot see that the court committed an error in
refusing to admit such testimony; at most Alvarado would
have to be considered as the agent or representative of
Torres Zayas and the maxim quifacit per aliumfacit per se
may be held to apply. The registry system in Porto Rico
exists to apprise purchasers and others who are the true
owners of property, and if a man after treating with the
apparent owner, may still 'have his title impugned by a
secret agreement existing between such record owner and
the alleged true owner there would be no security in the
acquisition of property."

Afrmed.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v.
HOUSTON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MINNESOTA.
No. 57.

Submitted November 11, 1913.-Decided December 1, 1913.

Decided on the authority of Northern Pacific Railway Company v.
.Wass, 219 U. S. 426.
109 Minnesota, 273, reversed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

