OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

231 U. S.

amount is not measured by the harm to the employs but
by the fault of the carrier, and being punitive, rightly was
determined by the judge. United States v. Atlantic Coast
Line R. Co., 173 Fed. Rep. 764, 771. Atchison, Topeka &
Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. United States, 178 Fed. Rep. 12, 15.

Judgment affirmed.

CLEMENT NATIONAL

BANK, v. STATE OF

VERMONT.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF VERMONT.

No. 29.

Argued April 28, 29, 1913.-Decided November 10, 1913.

A tax upon deposits in a national bank to be iaid by the depositors held
in this case not to be a tax upon the franchise of the bank.
An interpretation by the state court of a state statute is controlling on
this court; and this court determines whether the statute as so delimited conflicts with Federal law.
The National Bank Act does not withdraw credits of depositors in
national banks from the taxing power of the State.
Under its broad powers of classification for taxation, a State may
classify depositors in national banks so long as the tax is not essentially inimical to such banks in frustrating the purpose of the legislation or impairing their efficiency as Federal agencies.
The object of § 5219, Rev. Stat., is to prevent hostile discrimination
against national banks; and a state tax to be in conflict therewith
must constitute such a discrimination.
A provision in a statute permitting a bank to stipulate with the State
to pay the taxes on deposits and thereby relieve its depositors from
making returns does not place the bank under duress.
This court finds no basis for the charge of injurious discrimination
against national banks in § 815 of Chapter 37 of the Public Statutes
of Vermont.
While a national bank can only transact such business as the Federal
statutes permit, it may, under its incidental powers, make reasonable
business agreements in regard to its deposits including the payment

CLEMENT NAT'L ]BANK v. VERMONT.
231 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

of state taxes thereon pursuant to the laws of the State in which it is
located. Such an agreement is not ultra vires.
A State may provide for garnishment or trustee process to collect a
valid tax and may constitute a bank its agent to collect the tax from
its depositors.
A state tax on interest-bearing deposits in national banks does not
deny equal protection of the law on account of exemptions which
it is within the power of the State to allow or on account of the
exemption of non-interest-bearing accounts. The classification is
reasonable.
A state tax of a specified per cent. on deposits in national'banks paid
by the bank under agreement with the State pursuant to statute and
which is otherwise valid, does not amount to denial of due process of
law because the depositor had no notice in advance of the assessment,
wheie, as in this case, the tax was recoverable by suit in which the
depositor would have full opportunity to resist any illegal demand.
A lawful state tax on deposits in bank is imposed in the exercise of a
power subject to which deposits are made, and does not impair the
contract obligation of the bank to the depositors by requiring the
bank to act as agent in collectiag it. North Missouri R. R. Co. v.
Maguire, 20 Wall. 46.
84 Vermont, 167, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the legality of a statute of
Vermont imposing a tax on deposits in national banks,
are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Marvelle C. Webber and Mr. Maxwell Evarts for

plaintiff in error:
The Vermont statute constitutes an unlawful inter-

ference with national banks as Federal instrumentalities.
The tax the bank is required to pay is in effect and reality and by design a tax upon its franchises as a national

bank, being based upon the average of deposits of the

class created.
The title of the statute, while not absolutely controlling,
indicates the purpose to tax the bank. Gray on Taxing
Power, p. 42, § 55, n. 49; Holy Trinity Church v. United
States, 143 U. S. 457; United States v. Fisher, 2 Cr. 358,

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

231 U. S.

386; United States v. Palmer, 3 Wheat. 610, 631; Machen,
Federal Corp. Tax Law of 1909, p. 5 of introduction,
n. 1.
The deposits become the property of the bank, not of
the depositor, while the depositor becomes a creditor of
the bank to the amount of the deposit. Bank v. Millard,
10 Wall. 152; Scammon v. Kimball, 92 U. S. 362, 369; 1
Morse on Banking, § 289; State v. Franklin Co. Say. Bank,
74 Vermont, 246; Manhattan Co. v. Blake, 148 U. S. 412,
424.
They are assessable to the depositor only and as debts
owing by the bank. People v. Nat'l Bank &c., 123 California, 53; County of Yuba v. Adams, 7 California, 35.
The phraseology of the statute discloses the real purpose to tax the bank itself.
.The stipulation and the return formulated by the
state
officials show that in actual operation of the statute it
was construed as a tax on the bank itself.
The statute, being an attempt to tax national banks, is
absolutely void. Davis v. Elmira Savings Bank, 161 U. S.
275, 283; Bank v. New York, 121 U. S. 138; Bank v. Dearing, 91 U. S. 29; McCullough v. Maryland, 4 Wheat.
316; Osborn v. Bank, 9 Wheat. 738; Howley v. Hurd, 72
Vermont, 122; Owensboro Bk. v. Owensboro, 173 U. S.
664.
The sum the bank is called upon to pay is based on the
average of the deposits for the period. This measures the
amount to be paid by the bank. Such taxes are privilege
or franchise taxes on the privilege of doing business,
Gray on Taxing Power, pp. 43-44, § 56; Socy. for Say. v.
Coite, 6 Wall. 594; Provid. Inst. v. Massachusetts, 6 Wall.
611; Commonwealth v. People'sBank, 5 Allen, 428; State v.
Bradford Say. Bank, 71 Vermont, 234, 238; Commonwealth
v. Lancaster Say. Bank, 123 Massachusetts, 493; Jones v.
Winthrop Say. Bank, 66 Maine, 242.
The Supreme Court of the State of Vermont has held

CLEMENT NAT'L BANK v. VERMONT.
231 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

that a tax based upon the average amount of deposits in
savings banks is a franchise tax. State v. BradfordBank,
71 Vermont, 234; State v. FranklinBank, 74 Vermont, 246.
See also New Orleans v. Houston, 119 U. S. 265.
The facts show that the tax is on the business of the
bank. It is also on the bank itself because it cannot recoup the amount paid from the depositor. Gray on Taxing Power, § 801a; Cooley on Taxation, 3d ed., vol. 1,
p. 717, n. 1; FarmersBank v. Hoffman, 93 Iowa, 119; New
Orleans v. Houston, 119 U. S. 265; Boston v. Beal, 51 Fed.
Rep. 306; Stapylton v. Thaggard, 91 Fed. Rep. 93; Aberdeen Bank v. Chehalis County, 166 U. S. 440.
The statute by design and in effect is a duress, as it
compels the banks to execute the stipulation or to lose
their depositors. 15 Cyc. 249. There is really no choice.
Swift v. United States, 111 U. S. 22; Maxwell v. Griswold,
10 How. 241; Robertson v. Frank Brothers, 132 U. S. 17;
Atchison, Topeka &c. Ry. Co. v. O'Connor, 223 U. S. 280;
Gaar,Scott & Co. v. Shannon, 223 U. S. 468, 471.
The statute interferes with existing contracts between
the bank and its depositors and impairs their obligation.
The act of the bank is ultra vires and not enforceable.
McCormick v. Bank, 165 U. S. 538, quoted in Bowen v.
Needles National Bank, 94 Fed. Rep. 925, 930; Metropolitan Stock Exchange v. National Bank, 76 Vermont,
303; First National Bank v. National Exchange Bank, 92
U. S. 122; Concord First National Bank v. Hawkins, 174
U. S. 364; Central TransportationCo. v. Pullman Car Co.,
139 U. S. 24; 6 Century Digest, co]. 1655-1662; 21 Am.
& Eng. Ency. (2d ed.) 376 (9) and cases cited; Commercial National Bank v. Pirie, 82 Fed. Rep. 799, 801802; Norton v. Bank, 61 N. H. 589.
As to the effect of stipulations somewhat analogous
to the one in question, see Home Ins. Co. v; Morse, 20
Wall. 445; Baron v. Burnside, 121 U. S. 186.
To enforce a stipulation on the part of the defendant

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

231 U. S.

agreeing to pay such tax, would clearly cast upon it additional burden, and which was not contemplated in, and is
not authorized by the statutes to which it owes its existence. First National Bank v. Converse, 200 U. S. 425;
Merchants National Bank v. Wehrman, 202 U. S. 295;
Dolley v. Abilene Nat. Bank, 179 Fed. Rep. 461.
The stipulation in the case at bar subjects a national
bank to the supervision of another sovereignty; and this
the bank cannot voluntarily or involuntarily submit to.
There was no valid consideration and, as the tax is one
upon the depositors, it violates the Fourteenth Amendment by denying the equal protection of the laws in selecting depositors in national banks and making an arbitrary
classification of them.
It exempts from that class certain specified corporations, and thereby in some of these exemptions discriminates among the depositors constituting the class.
It discriminates between depositors in national banks
and depositors in state banks and trust companies.
It discriminates between depositors in national banks
and individuals generally. Kentucky Railroad Tax Cases,
115 U. S. 321, 337; Bell's Gap R. R. Co. v. Pennsylvania,
134 U. S. 232, 237; Nicol v. Ames, 173 U. S. 509, 521;
Magoun v. Illinois Trust Co., 170 U. S. 283, 293; Keeney
v. New York, 222 U. S. 525; Mutual Loan Co. v. Martell,
222 U. S. 225, 235.
Such a selection is an arbitrary classification. Gulf,
Colo. &c. Ry. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150, 165; Bell's Gap R. R.
Co. v. Pennsylvania, 134 U. S. 232, 237; State v. Hoyt, 71
Vermont, 59.
The act discriminates among the depositors constituting the class by the exceptions made in § 819. Certain
depositors would be left to taxation at the place of their
residence at a higher rate. Magoun v. Illinois &c. Bank,
170 U. S. 283; State v. Hoyt, 71 Vermont, 59; Aluminum
Co. v. Ramsey, 222 U. S. 251.

CLEMENT NAT'L BANK v. VERMONT.
231 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The statute discriminates against
national banks by
requiring the disclosure of names of banks holding this
class of deposits.
The statute discriminates against the general taxpayer.
The act violates the Fourteenth Amendment, as the
taxes so levied would take the property of the depositors
without due process of law. There was no valid assessment, and none provided for.
The tax is assessed, if assessed at all, without proper
notice to the depositors. 27 Am. & Eng. Ency. (2d ed.)
660, 663; Cboley's Const. Limit. 259; Commonwealth v. Del.
D. C. Co., 123 Pa. St. 594, 600; Commonwealth v. Lehigh
V. R. Co., 104 Pa. St. 89, 91, 101; Jones v. Winthrop Savings Bank, 66 Maine, 242, 245; State v. Bradford Savings
Bank, 71 Vermont, 234, 238; 1 Cooley on Taxation, 600,
753; People v. Hastings, 29 California, 449.
Dollar Savings Bank v. United States, 19 Wall. 227;
King v. United States, 99 U. S. 229; United States v.
Erie Ry. Co., 107 U. S. 1, and United States v. Phil. & Read.
R. R. Co., 123 U. S. 113, holding that there are some
classes of property as to which a' legislative assessment
is sufficient without a special valuation, do not apply to
this case.
There is no proper notice to the depositors. In Turpin
v. Lemon, 187 U. S. 51, 57; McMillen v. Anderson, 95
U. S. 37; State Railroad Tax Cases, 92 U. S. 575, 610;
Kentucky Railroad Tax Cases, 115 U. S. 321; Davidson
v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 97, 104, there was a hearing;
in this case there is none.
There is no independent scheme of taxation, such as
is required to preserve constitutional rights. A special
tax law must make such provision for an independent
scheme. Commonwealth v. Lehigh Valley R. R. Co., 104
Pa. St. 89, 101. Winona &c. Co. v. Minnesota, 159 U. S.
526; Hagar v. Reclamation District, 111 U. S. 701. distinguished.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

Mr. Clarke C. Fitt8 and Mr. Hale K. Darting for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of the

court.
The judgment under review awarded a recovery in
favor of the State of Vermont against the plaintiff in
error, The Clement National Bank, upon an agreement
which the bank had made pursuant to § 815 of Chapter 37
of the Public Statutes of Vermont entitled "Taxation of
National Bank Deposits," originally enacted as No. 41
of the Acts of 1906. The chapter is set forth in the margin.' The Federal questions relate to the validity of the
'CHAPTER

37.

TAXATION OF NATIONAL BANK DEPOSITS.

SEC. 804. Depositor'sreport to commissioner. Every person having,
on the first day of April and October, an interest bearing deposit in a
national bank in this state, shall, except as otherwise provided by this
chapter, within twenty days thereafter, report the amount thereof and
the name of such bank to the commissioner of state taxes, on blanks
prepared and furnished by him to such depositor on application therefor.
SEC. 805. Depositor'sreport to listers. Every resident of this state so
having an interest bearing deposit in a national bank in this state shall
annually, except as otherwise provided in this chapter, report to the
listers of the town wherein he resides, the names of all banks located
in this state wherein he then has or has had any such deposits during
the year next preceding the first day of April in the year wherein such
report is made, and the amount of such deposits.
SEC. 806. Interrogatoriesin inventories. The secretary of state shall
incorporate into the tax inventory interrogatories so framed as to
require the person subscribing to the same to state in writing and under
oath whether or not he then has or has had during the year next preceding the first day of such April, any such deposits; and, if such interrogatories are answered in the affirmative, he shall also state the name of
such bank and the amount of such deposit with all accrued interest.
SEC. 807. Reports by listers. The listers in every town shall, on- or

CLEMENT NAT'L BANK v. VERMONT.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

bank's stipulation in view of the scheme of taxation which
induced the making of it.
The plaintiff in error was organized under the Federal
before the tenth day of May, upon blanks to be furnished by the
commissioner of state taxes, report the names of all persons whose
inventories show that they had in a national bank in this state on the
first day of the preceding April, deposits of the character and kind
described in the third preceding section, together with the amount of
each individual deposit so held on such first day of April and the name
of the bank holding such deposit
SEC. 808. Reportsfiled; inspection. Such reports shall be kept on file
by said commissioner for three years from and after the dates on which
the taxes based thereon became due and payable to the state. Such
reports shall not be subject to the inspection of any person other than
said commissioner and the employe~s in his office, the attorney general,
and the state's attorney of the ,ounty wherein such bank has its
principal place of business or said depositor, if a resident of this state,
has his domicile. Any information contained in such reports shall not
be disclosed by any person authorized to examine the same, except by
the direction of a court of competent jurisdiction.
SEC. 809. Assessment of tax; payment. Every person so having a
deposit in a national bank as aforesaid shall semi-annually, except as
otherwise provided by this chapter, pay a tax to the state, which is
hereby assessed at the rate of seven-twentieths of one per cent semiannually upon the amount of such deposit so held by such national
bank on the first day of April and October; and no deduction therefrom
shall be made on account of any exemption. The taxes imposed by this
section shall be paid to the state treasurer semi-annually on or before
the last day of May and November next following the dates whereon
the reports provided for in the fourth preceding section are required to
be made.
SEC. 810. Exempt from other taxes. No other tax shall be assessed on
such deposits in national banks, no:c against the depositors on account
thereof.
SEC. 811. Penalty. A depositor who wilfully fails to make returns or
pay the taxes provided by this chapter shall forfeit ten per cent of such
deposit to the use of the state for each month's delay in filing such
return. Such tax and forfeiture may be recovered in an action on this
statute commenced by the commissioner of state taxes in the name of
the state, in any county, municipal or city court.,
SEC. 812. Trustee process. A person having any of the moneys,

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

statutes and does business at Rutland, Vermont. For
several years it has maintained a "savings department,"
allowing depositors therein interest at a rate exceeding
goods, chattels, effects, rights or credits of said depositor in his possession may be summoned as trustee in any action instituted under the
preceding section, notwithstanding that the amount of such tax or the
amount in his hands may be less than ten dollars.
SEC. 813. Waiver of penalty. If the commissioner of state taxes or
the court wherein such action is pending for the recovery of such tax or
forfeiture becomes satisfied that such failure was not wilful on the
part of the depositor, said commissioner or said court may, in its
discretion, waive any part or all of such penalty.
SEC. 814. Bank may elect to pay. If a national bank in this state so
elects it may pay to the state all taxes provided by this chapter; and
it shall be lawful for such bank to deduct such taxes so paid from the
interest or deposits then or thereafter held by it belonging to the person
from whom such tax became due.
SEC. 815. Same, stipulation. If a national bank elects to so pay
such taxes to the state and to make returns as hereinafter provided, it
shall semi-annually, on or before the first day of April and October, file
with the commissioner of state taxes a stipulation setting forth such fact;
and thereupon such bank shall become liable to the state for such tax
for the six months named in such stipulation and to make returns as
hereinafter provided; and no depositor in such bank shall be required to
make the returns hereinbefore specified covering the six months'
period for which such stipulation was filed.
SEC. 816. Commissioner's certificate to bank. Upon such stipulation
being filed, said commissioner shall issue in duplicate to such bank a
certificate showing that it has filed such stipulation.
SEC. 817. Bank's liability. Every bank filing such stipulation shall
thereupon become liable to the state for the amount of such tax of
seven-twentieths of one per cent of the average amount of such deposits
held by such bank during the six months beginning with the first day
of April and October respectively, for which such stipulation was
filed.
SEC. 818. Bank's return. If such bank, on or before the first day of
April, files a stipulation as hereinbefore provided, it shall, on or before
the thirty-first day of the following October, file a return with the state
treasurer and commissioner of state taxes, verified by the oath of its
president, cashier, or one of its directors, showing the average amount
of such deposits for the six months ending the thirtieth day of Septem-

CLEMENT NAT'L BANK v. VERMONT.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

two per cent. per annum, payable on the first days of
January and July in each year on deposits remaining in
bank on those days. Certain other depositors have
received certificates of deposit with interest at the rate
of three per cent. per annum for each calendar month that
the deposit continued. Prior to the year 1906, depositors
in national banks in Vermont, whether or not their
deposits bore interest, were taxable at the local tax rate,
in the districts in which they resided, in common with
other owners of credits (or debts due from solvent debtors)
under the general plan of local taxation. Pub. Stat.
(Vt.) 1894 ed., §§ 374, 398-399. Depositors in savings
banks and trust companies, organized under the laws of
the State, had long been exempt from all taxation upon
their deposits to a specified extent (at first $1,500, and
later $2,000 in any one institution), these organizations
being subject to a state tax of seven-tenths of one per
ber in that year, and shall pay to the state treasurer the amount of such
semi-annual tax. In case such bank, on or before the first day of
October, files a like stipulation, it shall, on or before the thirtieth day of
the following April, file a like return with the first named officers,
showing the average amount of such deposits for the six months ending
with the thirty-first day of March next preceding the making of such
return, and shall, in like manner, pay such taxes.
SEc. 819. Exemptions. The pr.ovisions of this chapter shall not
apply to municipalities; nor to corporations organized solely for
charitable, educational or religious purposes; nor to railroad, insurance,'
guaranty, express, telegraph, telephone, steamboat, car, transportation,
sleeping car, parlor car, mortgage, loan or investment companies; nor
to savings banks, trust companies, and savings banks and trust companies which have interest bearing deposits in national banks; nor to
national banks having an interest bearing deposit in another national
bank; nor to any person having any sum of money on deposit in a
national bank whereon interest not exceeding the rate of two per cent
per annum is paid or allowed him by such national bank.
SEC. 820. Exemptions restricted. Nothing in this chapter shall be
construed as exempting from taxation any deposit in any national
bank, except as hereinbefore provided.

VOL. CCXXX.i-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

cent. per annum computed upon the average amount of
deposits; in this computation, deposits in excess of the
above-stated limit were deducted and upon these the
depositors were taxable locally. Pub. Stat. (Vt.) 1894 ed.,
§§ 582-584; Acts of 1902, No. 20, § 41; Acts of 1906,
No. 28, § 1; Pub. Stat. 1906 ed., §§ 744-746.
This system being continued as to the state institutions
and the depositors therein, the General Assembly passed
the statute in question which provides for a state tax on
interest-bearing deposits in national banks (where the
interest exceeds two per cent. per annum) of seventwentieths of one per cent. semi-annually. Persons having
deposits of this sort, unless specially excepted (§ 819), are
required to report them at specified periods (§§ 804-806),
and to pay the tax without deduction on account of any
exemption (§ 809). No other tax is to "be assessed on
such deposits in national banks, nor against the depositors
on account thereof" (§ 810).
It is further provided that, if a national bank so elects,
it may pay to the State all the prescribed taxes and deduct
them from the interest or deposits of the persons from
whom they became due (§ 814). On such election, the
bank is, semi-annually, to file with the state commissioner
a stipulation to that effect; no depositor is required to
make returns for the period covered by the stipulation
(§ 815); the state commissioner is to issue to the bank a
certificate showing that it has been filed (§ 816); and the
statute provides that upon such filing the bank shall
"become liable to the State for the amount of such tax of
seven-twentieths of one per cent. of the average amount of
such deposits" held by the bank during the six months
to which the stipulation refers (§ 817).
This suit was brought by the State upon the following
stipulation which was filed by the plaintiff in error, on
October 1, 1908, the returns and payment therein specified
not having been made;

CLEMENT NAT'L 13ANK v. VERMONT.
231 V. S.

Opinion of' the Court.

" STATE OF VERMONT:

"The, Clement National Bank, whose banking house is
located at Rutland, in the State of Vermont for the consideration hereinafter named, hereby stipulates and agrees
with the State of Vermont that on or before the thirtieth
day of April 1909, it will make sworn returns to the State
Treasurer and Commissioner of State Taxes showing the
average amount of all deposits held by it during the six
months beginning with the first day of October 1908,
whereon the rate of interest paid or allowed by said bank
to the depositors thereof excEceds two per cent per annum;
and that on or before the thirtieth day of April 1909, it
will pay to the State Treasurer a tax of seven-twentieths
of one per cent of the average amount of all such deposits
so held by it.
"This stipulation is made and is to be filed with said
Commissioner in consideration and for the purpose of
carrying out the provisions of the statutes of Vermont
which provides that upon the making and filing hereof as
aforesaid no depositor having an interest bearing deposit
or deposits in said bank whereon the rate of interest paid
or allowed by said bank exceeds two per cent per annum
shall be required on or before the 20th day of October
1908, to make returns to the State Treasurer and Commissioner of State Taxes showing the amount of such
deposit or deposits in said bank on the first day of October
1908; and that no such depositor shall be required to pay
to the State Treasurer on or before the thirtieth day of
November, 1908 a tax of seven-twentieths of one per cent
of the amount of such interest bearing deposit or deposits
so held by said bank on the first day of October 1908.
"This stipulation is also made and is to be filed as aforesaid for the purpose of obtaining from said Comnmissioner
as the law provides a certificate in duplicate setting forth
that the same has been filed and of showing that said
bank-has elected to pay and will pay to the State Treasurer

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

on or before the thirtieth day of April 1909 a tax of
seven-twentieths of one per cent of the average amount of
all such deposits held by said bank during the six months
beginning with the first day of October 1908 on account
of which the depositors thereof shall be by said bank paid
or allowed interest exceeding the rate of two per cent per
annum.

"In witness whereof said bank has on this 30th day of
September 1908 at Rutland, in the State of Vermont
caused its corporate name to be hereunto affixed by its
cashier duly empowered so to do by vote of said bank.
CLEMENT NATIONAL BANK,

Rutland, Vermont,
by C. H.

HARRISON,

Cashier.

"Endorsed: Received October 1, 1908, J. E. Cushman,
Commissioner of State Taxes."
The case was tried upon an agreed statement of facts.
It appeared that the state commissioner issued to the
bank his certificate, which was conspicuously posted in its
banking room, that the stipulation had been filed and that
therefore depositors, having deposits upon which the rate
of interest exceeded two per cent. per annum, would
not be required to make returns. In consequence, none of
the depositors' reports was made, and there was no valuation of the individual deposits by any official during the
period covered by the stipulation.
It was also set forth that, under-the bank's method of
allowing interest on deposits, it was impossible for it to
determine, at the time it was required to make its semiannual returns under the stipulation, upon what deposits
interest exceeding two per cent. per annum would actually
be allowed. Thus, deposits might be withdrawn prior
to January first or July first, the dates on which interest
was credited on amounts then in bank. In practice, in
former periods-for which the plaintiff in error had made
payments under similar stipulations, it had included all

CLEMENT NAT'L BANK v. VERMONT.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

deposits belonging to the class upon which interest was
allowable in excess of two per cent. per annum, in arriving
at the average amount of deposits, whether or not interest
was in fact paid. The monthly averages were ascertained
by averaging the aggregate deposits held at the close of
each day, and the average for the six months was taken by
averaging the monthly averages. Thus computed, the
average amount of deposits of the class above-described
(including those of non-residents) for the six months
beginning October 1, 1908, was $594,357.74. The average
deposits exempted for the period in question, under § 819,
were $15,688.15, and the net average for the six months
was $578,669.19 upon which the State sought to recover
$2,025.33.
The State also declared upon a similar stipulation filed
by the bank on April 1, 1909, covering the ensuing six
months. The court of first instance rendered judgment in
favor of the State for the full amount demanded. This
was reversed by the Supreme Court of the State which
held that the statute did not apply to non-residents and
that the amount of the recovery should be determined by
a computation based on the credits of resident depositors.
Final judgment was then entered against the bank, covering the two periods, in the sum of $3,989.85. State v.
Clement National Bank, 84 'Vermont, 167.
1. It is contended that the statute imposed a tax upon
the franchises of national banks and hence exceeded the
state power. Owensboro National Bank v. Owensboro,
173 U. S. 664, 667, 668, and cases there cited.
But it is apparent that, whatever other objections may
lie, the tax complained of is not laid upon the, national
bank itself, its property or franchises. It is imposed upon
the depositors; they alone are required to pay it. If they
fail to make returns, as provided by the statute, they are
stibject to penalty; and both tax and penalty are recoverable by suit against them in the name of the State. If

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

they escape the tax, it is because of the bank's stipulation. If the bank becomes liable, it is by virtue of its
agreement and not otherwise. The statute was so interpreted by the Supreme Court of the State which said:
"The transaction which makes the money the property of
the bank gives the depositor a credit of equal amount,
and the term 'deposit' may be used to indicate the money
deposited or the credit which the depositor receives for
it. The last must be taken to be the meaning here, for
the statute lays the tax upon 'the depositor in so many
words." 84 Vermont, 167, 181. There is no difficulty in
the interpretation of the statute as to the prescribed incidence of the tax and, aside from that, the decision of the
state court is controlling as to the persons upon whom the
statute fixed responsibility. It was the province of that
court to determine what the terms of the statute authorized, commanded or forbade, and it is for this court to
say whether in view of its operation, thus delimited, it
conflicts with the Federal law. People v. Weaver, 100 U. S.
539, 541, 542; First National Bank of Garnett v. Ayers,
160 U. S. 660, 664; Aberdeen Bank v. Chehalis County,
166 U. S. 440, 444; Commercial Bank v. Chambers, 182
U. S. 556, 560.
2. It is not urged that the legislation of Congress relating to national banks, either expressly or by implication, withdraws from the reach of the taxing power of the
State the credits belonging to depositors, whether or not
interest-bearing. "No one contends," says the plaintiff
in error, that a State "has not the right to include in its
taxation of a person's property the amount which he may
have on deposit in the savings department of a national
bank." It must also be recognized that in exercising its
authority to tax property within its jurisdiction, the State
is not limited to one method. It has a broad range of
discretion in classifying subjects of taxation and in employing different methods for different sorts of property.

CLEMENT NAT'L BANK v. VERMONT.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Bell's Gap R. R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 134 U. S. 232, 237;
Home Insurance Co. v. New York, 134 U. S. 594, 606;
Citizens' Telephone Co. V. Fuller, 229 U. S. 322, 329-331.
The objection made by the bank to the State's plan must
rest not upon the mere fact that the depositors in national
banks are taxed upon their credits or that they are taken
out of the system of local taxation, but upon the ground
that the measure adopted is essentially inimical to national
banks, frustrating the purpose of the national legislation
or impairing their efficiency as federal agencies. Davis
v. Elmira Savings Bank, 161 U. S. 275, 283; McClellan v.
Chipman, 164 U. S. 347, 357. And that, in substance, is
the position taken.
To be open to such an objection, it must appear that the
scheme of taxation constitutes an injurious discrimination.
Even in the case of shares of the capital stock of national
banks, which cannot be taxed save with the consent of
Congress (People v. Weaver, 100 U. S. 539, 543), taxation
by the State is expressly permitted if it is not at a greater
rate than is assessed upon other moneyed capital in the
hands of individual citizens. Rev. Stat., § 5219. The
object is tQ prevent hostile discrimination and for this purpose a standard is fixed. Mercantile Bank v. New York,
121 U. S. 138, 154, 155. With respect to the taxation of
depositors' credits, the Federal statute does not prescribe
a rule; and, the property being normally subject to the
State's taxing power, there is no warrant for implying a
restriction which would extend beyond the requirements
of protection from the prejudicial effect of such exactions
as would be unjustly discriminatory.
It follows that the comparison must have regard to
business and property which may be deemed to have,
generally speaking, a similar character; and, in the present
case, there is no basis for the contention that the statute
unfairly discriminates against national banks unless it
may be found in the method of dealing with deposits in

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

banking institutions organized under the state law, The
institutions. thus brought to our attention are savings
banks and trust companies. Formerly there were also
state banks of circulation, discount and deposit; but these,
shortly after the passage of the National Banking Act,
ceased to exist and were succeeded by trust companies
or "savings banks and trust companies." The latter were
organized under special charters and had, except as to the
issuance of notes of circulation, very nearly the same powers as those possessed by the earlier state banks. State v.
Franklin County Savings Bank & Trust Co., 74 Vermont,
246, 257-258.
These state organizations, as it has already been observed, for many years had been subject to a special state
tax upon the average amount of deposits, after certain deductions. This has been held to be a franchise tax (State
v. Bradford Savings Bank, 71 Vermont, 234; State v. Franklin County Savings Bank & Trust Co., supra.) Having
laid this tax, the State exempted the depositors in these
savings banks and trust companies from taxation upon
their respective credits not exceeding $2,000 in any one
institution. Individual deposits over this amount, as
we have seen, were to be deducted in computing the
tax to be paid by the state banks and trust companies
and were to be listed by the depositors for local taxation
at their places of residence. The situation then was, with
respect to the state institutions, that they paid the tax
of seven-tenths of one per cent. per annum upon average
deposits, and the depositors were exempted from taxation
upon those deposits which entered into the calculation of
this average. National banks did not pay, and could not
be compelled to pay, a franchise tax, or other tax upon
their deposits, and their depositors, having credits bearing interest at a rate exceeding two per cent. per annum,
were required by the statute in question to pay upon such
credits a tax of seven-twentieths of one per cent. semi-

CLEMENT NAT'L BANK v. VERMONT.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

annually. Or, if any national bank desired to do so, it
could agree to pay an amount computed at the same rate
upon the average amount of deposits of the described
class, and thus save its depositors both from the tax
and the inconvenience of making returns.
With respect to those interest-bearing deposits
of the
described class which did not exceed severally the sum of
$2,000, it is evident that there was no hostile discrimination against the national banks by reason of the rate of
the tax imposed upon their depositors. True, in the one
case the depositor was exempted to the specified amount,
and in the other the depositor was taxed. But the depositor in the state bank was relieved because the bank
paid. The amount received by the State was substantially
the same in each case, that is, at the rate of seven-tenths
of one per cent. a year. The state banks transacted their
business under this charge. As to national banks, the
State could not follow the course taken with the' state
institutions and lay a tax upon the bank computed upon
the amount of its deposits with a corresponding exemption to the depositors. Nor was the State bound to extend
its exemption to cases where the reason for it did not
exist. But the national bank, not being subject to the
tax which the state banks had to pay, had the opportunity
to give its depositors, if it chose, an equivalent benefit
in interest rates. So far as the amount- of the tax upon
these deposits was concerned, the national bank was not
put at a disadvantage as compared with the state banks.
Then, as to deposits in excess of $2,000 for which depositors in the state institutions were taxable locally, it
does not appear that the difference in method was to the
prejudice of national banks. The depositors in the latter,
with respect to the interest-bearing deposits in question,
had a low flat rate and were free from what the state
court properly called "the greater burden and uncertain
demands of local taxation." The agreed statement of

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

facts sets forth that the average local rate throughout the
State for the year beginning April 1, 1908, was $16.70
per $1,000 of taxable property set in the grand list; the
minimum being $7.50 per $1,000, and the maximum being
$39.80 per $1,000. While deduction for debtb was allowed
in the ascertainment of the amount of personal estate
subject to the local tax, and this was laid only once a year,
the allowance of a much lower rate on deposits to any
amount in a national bank might well be regarded as a
compensatory, if not a greater, advantage in its general
operation. It is said that no such publicity was requfred
of the other taxpayers regarding their personal property
as was demanded of depositors in national banks. This
argument refers to the requirement that the latter should
report the amount of their deposits and the names of the
banks in which they were kept. But, in the case of local
taxes, a "full statement of all taxable property" was
required from each taxpayer, who was obliged to make
oath that his inventory was "a full, true and correct list
and description.". Pub. Stat. (Vt.) 1906, §§ 536-540.
What difference there may be in the form of the two statements is plainly not important. The requirements in the
case of the depositors in national banks went no further
than to secure the payment of the tax, and the returns
were subject to official inspection only. Pub. Stat. (Vt.)
1906, § 808, quoted ante, p. 127.
It was in these circumstances that the legislature
adopted the provision that, if the national bank agreed
to pay an amount which might fairly be regarded as
equivalent to the sum demanded of the depositors, the
latter should be free from the necessity of making any
returns. In no proper sense,, could this be deemed to
place the bank under duress. It may well be that the
State desired by substituting the flat exclusive rate in
place of local taxation to facilitate the appearance in
larger amount of a class of property which easily escapes

CLEMENT NAT'L BANK .v. VERMONT.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

taxation. 84 Vermont, 167, 195.. But the exaction it
imposed upon the depositors was not relatively unfair,
and in providing that the bank might, if it saw fit, make
the returns and payment stipulated, the State left no
possible ground for objection on the score of inconvenience
in practical administration. That the plaintiff in error, in
the conduct of its savings department, did not fail to
perceive the business advantages of the State's plan is
apparent from the excerpts from the advertisements it
published during the period covered by the stipulation
in suit and prior thereto. The following are illustrative:
"We pay 4 per cent. on savings accounts, in any amount
from one dollar upwards. All taxes are paid by the bank,
and you do not need to report deposits in this bank to
the listers."
"Be sure and take advantage of the law governing
taxes on deposits in National banks. Our depositors do
not make any report of their deposits to the listers."
"Under the law governing savings deposits in National
banks, we pay all taxes on any amount. There is no $2,000
limit. You can carry any amount tax free, and no report
of your deposit is made by the bank to the listers."
We find no basis for the charge of injurious discrimination.
3. With this view of the scheme of the statute, we come
to the question of the validity of the stipulation in suit.
The bank contends that it was ultra vires. There is no
suggestion that the bank did not have the power to allow
interest upon deposits, or to conduct its savings department. Neither party questions the bank's authority in
that respect. The practice of maintaining savings departments seems to have become exte4sive in recent years,
without challenge by the Government. (Report of the
Comptroller. of the Currency; Treasury Reports, 1912,
p. 361.) The position of the plaintiff in error is that, as-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

suming its right to transact business of this. sort, still it
could not lawfully enter into the agreement which the
State seeks to enforce.
The applicable principles are not in dispute. The Federal statutes relative to national banks constitute the
measure of the authority of such corporations, and they
cannot rightfully exercise any powers except ,those expressly granted or which are incidental to carrying on the
business for which they are established. CaliforniaBank
v. Kennedy, 167 U. S. 362, 366; Logan County Bank v.
Townsend, 139 U. S. 67, 73. These incidental powers are
such "as are required to meet all the legitimate demands
of the authorized business, and to enable a bank to conduct its affairs, within the general scope of its charter,
safely and prudently." First National Bank v. National
Exchange Bank, 92 U. S. 122, 127; Western National
Bank v. Armstrong, 152 U. S. 346, 351. The bank was
authorized to receive deposits. Arising from these deposits
were credits to the depositors, forming part of their
property and subject to the taxing power of the. State.
It cannot be doubted that the property being taxable,
the State could provide, in order to secure the collection
of a valid tax upon such credits, for garnishment or
trustee process against the bank or in effect constitute
the bank its agent to collect the tax from the individual
depositors. National Bank v. Commonwealth, 9. Wall.
353, 361-363; Merchants Bank v. Pennsylvania, 167 U. S.
461, 465, 466. Further, it would seem to be highly appropriate that, the credits of depositors being taxable by
the State, the bank should be free to make reasonable
agreements, and thus promote the convenience of its
business, with respect to the making of returns and the
payment of such amounts as the State might lawfully
require of its depositors. ;Provision for such agreements,
instead of constituting an interference with a Federal
instrumentality would aid it in performing its functions

CLEMENT NAT'L BANK v. VERMONT.
2:31 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and would remove unnecessary obstacles to the successful
prosecution of its business.
The contention, however, is that in this case the bank,
under the statute, Sipulated to pay at the specified rate
upon an average amount of deposits and it is insisted that
this amount did not correspond precisely to the amounts
upon which interest was actually paid to the depositors
and upon which accordingly they would have been taxable.
That is, as already stated, certain deposits being withdrawn between the interest dates fixed by the bank, there
would be deposits belonging to the interest-bearing class
upon which interest would not in fact be paid. The facts
in regard to the fluctuations in deposits during the period
in question are shown in the excerpts from the agreed
statement set forth in the margin.' But we are of the
"Deposits to the amount of $4,514, were made subsequent to
July 1, 1908, and were withdrawn prior to January 1, 1909; and deposits
to the amount of $3,002.12 were made subsequent to January 1, 1909,
July 1, 1909, some being Withdrawn prior to
and withdrawn, prior t'o
April 1, and some subsequent thereto. No interest was paid by the
defendant on any of the deposits mentioned in this.article.
"Deposits to the amount of $7,069.24 were made after October 1,
April 1, 1901, of which $5,723.29
1908, and were withdrawn prior w:o
were in the bank January 1, 1909, and drew interest at the aforesaid.
rate; deposits in said bank on October 1, 1908, to the amount of
$20,726.28 whereon interest at m;aid rate was then allowed by the
defendant, were withdrawn prior to March 31, 1909. Eleven of the
individual depositors having interesst bearing deposits, not exceeding in
the aggregate $4,561.95 became such after October 1, 1908, and ceased
to be depositors before March 31, 1909; and forty-eight depositors of
this class having deposits on October 1, 1908, not exceeding in the
aggregate $22,530.54 ceased to be depositors before March 31, 1909."
It also appeared that the aggregate of such interest-bearing deposits
on October 1, 1908, was $569,393.75 of which $36,424.27 were deposited
by non-residents; and on April 1, 1909, such aggregate was $623,242.75
of which $39,361.98 were deposited by non-residents. The aggregate
on the last-named date was $28,885.01 in excess of the average for the
semi-annual period ending March 31, 1909. (Rec. pp. 16, 17.)

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

opinion that this lack of an exact correspondence between
the amount upon which the depositors would have been
taxed and the average amount upon which the bank
agreed to pay cannot be said to furnish a ground for
holding the agreement to be invalid. There was, and in
the ordinary course of business there naturally would be,
a substantial equivalency. The arrangement to make the
computation upon the average amount of deposits of the
class was a simple and convenient method which could
fairly be said to offset in its advantages such risks as
might be incident to the fluctuations. It is further said
that the agreement did not contemplate a charge against
the depositors' accounts of the amount paid by the bank.
The bank, however, was free to adjust its interest rates
accordingly. We find no ground for sustaining the contention that the agreement was beyond the bank's power.
4. But it is also insisted that the agreement cannot be
enforced for the reason that it was without valid consideration. The proposition is that the tax considered as
one upon the depositors would, if enforced, constitute a
denial of the equal protection of the laws, and would take
the property of the depositors without due process of law.
What has already been said with respect to the charge of
discrimination as against the bank is applicable here and
need not be repeated. Reference is also made to the
exemptions granted by § 819 of the statute (ante). which
makes its provision for the tax inapplicable to municipalities; to corporations organized solely for charitable,
educational or religious purposes; and to various corporations which were otherwise taxed.' All these exemptions
it was manifestly within the power of the State to allow.
Similarly, with respect to persons whose deposits did not
bear interest exceeding two per cent. per annum, the
legislature took this method of recognizing a. practical
difference between deposit accounts of the ordinary commercial sort and those which partook, generally speaking,

CLEMENT NAT'L BANK"v." VERMONT.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the character of savings accounts. It cannot be said
that the classification adopted was purely arbitrary or
beyond the power of the State. Citizens' Telephone Co. v.
Fuller, 229 U. S. 322.
In support of the contention that the tax Would deprive
the depositors of their property without due process of
law it is said (1), that there was no valid assessment, and
none was provided for and (2), that the tax was assessed,
if at all, without proper notice to the depositors. The
statute laid the tax at a specified rate upon bank credits;
no other assessment than that made by the statute itself
was necessary; and no other notice to the depositor than
that thus given by law was required. The tax was recoverable by suit in which the depositor would have full
opportunity to resist any illegal demand. Dollar Savings
Bank v. United States, 19 Wall. 227, 240; King v. United
States, 99 U. S. 229, 233; United Stotes v. Erie Railway
Co., 107 U. S. 1, 2; United Staes v. Chamberlin, 219 U. S.
250, 263, 264.
5. Further objection is made that the statute interfered
with existing c6ntracts between the bank and its depositors, impairing their obligation. But this is clearly untenable. The statute did not act upon such contracts; it
imposed a tax upon the property of depositors in the
exercise of a power subject to which the deposits were
made. North Missouri R. R. Co. v. Maguire, 20 Wall.
46, 61.
The judgment is affirmed.
Affirmed.

