68

OCT 9 BER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Case.

231 U. S.

BALTIC MINING COMPANY v. COMMONWEALTH
OF MASSACHUSETTS.
S. S. WHITE DENTAL MANUFACTURING COMPANY v. COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT OF THE STATE OF
MASSACHUSETTS.
Nos. 30, 353.

Argued April 29, 30, 1913-Decided November 3, 1913.

While a State may not burden interstate commerce or tax the carrying on of such commerce, the mere fact that a corporation is engaged
in interstate commerce does not exempt its property from state
taxation.
While interstate commerce itself cannot be taxed, the receipts of property or capital employed therein may be taken as a measure of a
lawful state tax.
A State may, so long as it does not violate any principle of the Federal
Constitution, exclude from its border a foreign corporation or prescribe the conditions upon which it may do business therein.
Where a foreign corporation carries on a purely local business separate
from its interstate business, the State may impose an excise tax upon
it for the privilege .of carrying on such business and measure the
same by the authorized capital of the corporation.
The excise tax, imposed by Part III of c. 490 of the Statutes of Massachusetts of 1909, on certain classes of foreign corporations,which excise is measured by the authorized capital of such corporations but
limited to a specified sum, is not an unconstitutional burden on interstate commerce, nor does it deprive such corporations of their property without due process of law or deny them the equal protection of
the law. Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1; Southern Railway Co. v. Green, 216 U. S. 400, distinguished.
207 Massachusetts, 381; 212 Massachusetts, 35, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the validity under the com-

merce, due process and equal protection clauses of the Federal Constitution of an act of the Commonwealth of

BALTIC MINING CO. v. MASSACHUSETTS.
231 U. S.

69

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

Massachusetts imposing a tax on foreign corporations
within the Commonwealth, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. William P. Everts and Mr. Charles A. Snow for
plaintiffs in error:
The Massachusetts statute is void because repugnant
to the "commerce" and "due process" clauses of the
Federal Constitution.
A State cannot lawfully impose an excise measured by
the entire capital stock of a, foreign corporation engaged
in interstate commerce as a condition of its right to transact domestic business.
Such a measure, in its necessary effect and operation,
directly and substantially burdens interstate commerce
and is, therefore, a regulation of interstate commerce.
And this is so even though professedly exacted for the
privilege of transacting domestic commerce.
It is also unconstitutional, because it conflicts with the
"due process" clause. Weslern Union and Pullman Cases,
216 U. S. 1, 56; Ludwig v. West. Un. Tel. Co., 216 U. S.
146; West. Un. Tel. Co. v. Andrews, 216 U. S. 165; Southern
Railway Co. v. Greene, 216 U. S. 400; Flint v. Stone-Tracy
Co., 220 U. S. 107, 163; Atchison &c. R. R. Co. v. O'Connor, 223 U. S. 280.
This Massachusetts excise differs in no material respect
from the Kansas excise.
There is no suggestion in the Western Union or Pullman
Cases or later cases limiting their scope to palace car,
telegraph, or other quasi-public corporations.
The necessary effect of an excise based on the entire
capital of an interstate coramerce corporation is to burden
directly and substantially the interstate portion of its
business, even though professedly imposed for ihe privilege
of transacting domestic business and also to tax its property located beyond the borders of the taxing State.
The mere fact that a company is not a quasi-public

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

231 U. S.

corporation cannot alter the necessary effect and operation
of such an excise.
In the Massachusetts, as well as in the Kansas, case the
excise was exacted as a condition of granting local privileges. No reason can be suggested why such an effect and
result should be limited to quasi-publiccorporations, when
the same excise is involved.
The insertion of a maximum limit does not help the tax,
especially where, as here, the maximum limit has no
application to the companies before the court. Ludwig v.
West. Un. Tel. Co., 216 U. S. 146; West. Un. Tel. Co. v.
Andrews, 216 U. S. 165; Atchison &c. Ry. Co. v. O'Connor,
223 U. S. 280; Mulford Co. v. Curry, 44 California,
80.
Any occupation or privilege tax, license fee, or other
excise, which directly and substantially burdens interstate
commerce, is unconstitutional.
Where a tax necessarily affects and burdens interstate
commerce, its effect cannot be altered by the mere fact
that the corporation is not a quasi-public corporation.
The cases holding that a State may, at its pleasure,
totally exclude foreign corporations from its limits or admit
them to the privilege of transacting domestic business
upon such terms and conditions as it deems best, such as
Osborne v. Florida, 164 U. S. 160; Pullman Co. v. Adams,
189 U. S. 420; Allen v. Pullman Co., 191 U. S. 171; Horn
Silver Mining Co. v. New York, 143 U. S. 305; Pembina Co.
v. Pennsylvania, 125 U. S. 181, did not involve interstate
commerce in any way.
They have no application to a case where the necessary
effect of a particular excise is to burden interstate commerce directly and substantially.
A statute is unconstitutional which requires a foreign
corporation to waive right to litigate in Federal courts
as a condition of right to transact domestic business.
If an excise, by its necessary effect, directly and sub-

BALTIC MINING CO. v. MASSACHUSETTS.
231 U. S.

71

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

stantially burdens interstate commerce, it is unconstitutional, though professedly exacted for a local privilege.
In considering effect and purpose of a tax, this court
looks through forms and attempts to reach the substance.
The theory of the Massachusetts court that the principles of the Pullman and Western Union -Cases have no
application where the company is free to renounce or
abandon its domestic business, and only apply where the
interstate and domestic business are inextricably interwoven, has no support in reason or upon the authorities.
Pullman Co. v. Adams, 189 U. S. 420, did not involve
interstate commerce.
The measure of the excise and its necessary effect
and operation in burdening interstate commerce are the
material factors. An excise measured by the entire
capital is based upon an erroneous measure, because it
necessarily burdens in a direct and substantial manner
the interstate portion of company's business. Allen v.
Pullman Co., 191 U. S. 171; Kehrer v. Stewart, 197 U. S. 60;
Osborne v. Florida, 164 U. S. 650. Horn Silver Mining
Co. v. New York, 143 U. S. 305, distinguished.
See Norfolk & Western R. R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 136
U. S. 114.
Sales of goods or contracts for their sale made in one
State, for delivery in another State, ;or. requiring transportation through more than one State, constitute transactions of interstate commerce, notwithstanding the fact
that the transportation is conducted, not by the seller, but
by common carriers.
A tax upon the seller of goods is a tax upon the goods
themselves. Kehrer v. Stewart, 197 U. S. 60.
Sales or contracts of sale made or negotiated in one
State for delivery in another, or requiring transportation
to the purchaser in another State, are transactions of interstate commerce.
The sale and barter of goods for delivery in other

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

231.U. S.

States was the original conception of interstate commerce
and the transportation of goods and passengers was a.later
development.
The negotiation of sales of goods for the purpose of
introducing into another State is interstate commerce.
Transportation by common carrier is not the test of interstate commerce which may exist without intervention
of any form of transportation.
The protection of the "commerce" clause is not limited
to quasi-public corporations.
The negotiation of sales by ordinary trading corporations engaged in interstate commerce comes within the
protection of the "commerce" clause, as against state
statutes imposing excises, whether in the form of occupation or privilege taxes, or of license fees. Robbins v.
Shelby Taxing District, 120 U. S. 489; Corson v. Maryland,
.120 U. S. 502; Welton v. State of Missouri, 91 U. S. 275;
Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419; Asher v. Texas, 128
U.S. 129; Walling v. Michigan, 116 U. S. 446; Brennan v.
Titusville, 153 U. S. 289; Stockard v. Morgan, 185 U. S.
27.
A State cannot tax people representing the owners of
property outside of the State for the privilege of soliciting
orders within it as agents of such owners for property
to be shipped to persons within the State; Caldwell v.
North Carolina, 187 U. S. 622; Rearick v. Pennsylvania,
203 U. S. 507; Dozier v. Alabama, 218 U. S. 124; or for
maintaining an office; McCall v. California, 136 U. S. 104;
Norfolk & Western R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 136 U. S. 114;
Cooper Mfg. Co. v. Ferguson, 113 U. S. 727; ParsonsWillis Lumber Co. v. Stuart, 182 Fed. Rep. 779.
The Massachusetts excise is unconstitutional and void,
because it is also repugnant to the equal protection of the
laws clause.
A State cannot subject a foreign corporation, which is
already in the State in compliance with its laws and has

BALTIC MINING CO. z). MASSACHUSETTS.
231 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

there acquired property of a fixed and permanent nature,
to a new or additional excise, for the privilege of doing
local business, which is not at the same time imposed
upon domestic corporations. Southern Railway Co. v.
Greene, 216 U. S. 400.
The fact that this excise has a maximum limit cannot
help its constitutionality, especially where the maximum
is not applicable to the corporation before the court.
Mr. James M. Swift and Mr. Andrew Marshall for, de
fendant in error:
The exactions in question are excises and not property
taxes; the history of the taxes shows them to be excise
taxes.
In Massachusetts property taxes. and excise taxes are
perfectly distinct and always have been. PortlandBank
v. Apthorp, 1815, 12 Massachusetts, 252.
Any property tax, to be valid under the Constitution,
must be proportional, and any such tax assessed upon certain property at a rate different from that on other property is disproportional. Oiiver v. Washington Mills, 11
Allen, 268, 275; Cheshire v. County Commissioners, 118
Massachusetts, 386, 389; Northampton v. County Commissioners, 145 Massachusetts, 108, 109; Opinion of the Justices, 195 Massachusetts, 607; Opinion of the Justices, 208
Massachusetts, 616; S: S. White Co. v. Commonwealth, 212
Massachusetts, 35, 38.
It has never been held that excises need be more than
reasonable.
The policy of imposing excises upon corporations has
been applied gradually but consistently by the legislature
to an increasing number of kinds of corporations. West.
Un. Tel. Co. v. Massachusetts, 125 U. S. 536; Massachusetts
v. West. Un. Tel. Co., 141 U. S. 40; Oliver v. Liverpool &
London Ins. Co., 100 Massachusetts, 531; Connecticut Life
Ins. Co. v. Commonwealth, 133 Massachusetts, 161; At-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

231 U. S.

torney General v. Bay State Mining Co., 99 Massachusetts,
198.
The statute itself describes the tax as an excise tax. The
declared purpose of the act is to be accepted as true, unless incompatible with its meaning and effect. Hazen v.
Essex Co., 12 Cush. 475, 477; Flint v. Stone-Tracy Co., 220
U. S. 107, 145.
The taxes have been defined by the Supreme Court of
Massachusetts, in this case as well as in other cases, as
excise taxes and not taxes on property. Pratt v. Street
Commissioners, 139 Massachusetts, 559; Commonwealth v.
Barnstable Savings Bank, 126 Massachusetts, 526; In re
Suffolk Bank, 151 Massachusetts, 103, 106; AttorneyGeneral v. Massachusetts Pipe Line Co., 179 Massachusetts, 15, 19; Greenfield Bank v. Commonwealth, 211 Massachusetts, 207; Farr Alpaca Co. v. Commonwealth, 212
Massachusetts, 156, 162.
The construction and interpretation given by the
Massachusetts court to the provision of law under which
the taxes in question were imposed are conclusive upon
this court, if in actual operation and effect the statute is
consistent with that construction and 'interpretation.
Brown-Forman Co. v. Kentucky, 217 U. S. 563, 572;
Stockard v. Morgan, 185 U. S. 27, 30; Osborne v. Florida,
164 U. S. 650; Hamilton Co. v. Massachusetts, 6 Wall.
632.
The required payment is strictly of an excise tax, and
not of a tax upon property. The fact that it is estimated
upon the par value of the capital stock, with a maximum
limit of $2,000 as the highest tax that can be imposed upon
the largest corporation, does not make it a tax upon property. Attorney-Generalv. Bay State Mining Co., 99 Massachusetts, 148; Commonwealth v. Lancaster Savings Bank,
123 Massachusetts, 493; Pratt v. Street Commissioners,
139 Massachusetts, 559, 562; Provident Institution v.
Massachusetts, 6 Wall. 632; Hamilton Co. v. Massachu-

BALTIC MINING CO. v. MASSACIHIUSETTS.
231 U. S.

75

Argument for Defendant in Error.

setta, 6 Wall. 632; Society for Savings v. Coite, 6 Wall. 594,

608; Flint v. Stone-Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107.
Since the tax is in its nature an excise tax, 'authorized
by the state constitution, the legislature has wide discretion as to the method to be prescribed for computing the
amount of the tax. Delaware Railroad Tax, 18 Wall. 206,
231; Horn Silver Mining Co. v. New York, 143 U. S. 305;
Provident Institution v. Massachusetts, 6 Wall. 627.
A license tax may be exacted as a condition of the corporation keeping an office within the State for the use of
its officers. Pembina Mining Co. v. Pennsylvania, 125
U. S. 181. See also Maim v. Grand Trunk Ry. Co., 142
U. S.217; Home Ins. Co. v. New York, 134 U. S. 594;
Flint v. Stone-Tracy Co., 220 U. S.107.
The Massachusetts statute as applied to the plaintiffs
in error does not conflict with the commerce clause of the
Constitution of the United States.
A State may tax a foreign corporation for the privilege
of a domicile for local business if the effect is not to regulate
interstate commerce.
A State has power to exclude or condition the entrance
of foreign corporations within its limits. Bank of Augusta
v. Earle, 13 Pet. 519; Security Mut. Life Ins. Co. v. Prewitt, 202 U. S.246; Waters-Pierce Oil Co. v. Texas, 177
U. S.28, and cases cited; Osborne v. Florida, 164 U. S.
650, 655; Horn Silver Mining Co. v. New York, 143 U. S.
305; Pembina Mining Co. v. Pennsylvania, 125 U. S. 181;
Cooper Manfg. Co. v. Ferguson, 113 U. S.727; Hammond
Packing Co. v. Arkansas, 212 U. S. 322, 343.

The argument of the defendant in error gives full effect
to the limitation which forbids imposing upon corporations engaged in interstate 6ommerce conditions so directly affecting the interstate commerce as to amount to a
restriction of that commerce or to a regulation of it,

within the meaning of the Constitution of the United
States. Commonwealth v. Petranich, 183 Massachusetts,

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

231 U. S.

217, 219; Attorney-General v. Electric Battery Co., 188
Massachusetts, 239; Pickard v. PullmanCar Co., 117 U. S.
34; Cooper Manfg. Co. v. Ferguson, 113 U. S. 727; Leloup
v. Mobile, 127 U. S. 640; Crutcher v. Kentucky, 141 U. S.
47.; Post. Tel. Cable Co. v. Charleston, 153 U. S. 692; West.
Un. Tel. Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1; Pullman Co. v. Kansas,
216 U. S. 56; InternationalText Book Co. v. Pigg, 217 U. S.
91; Horn Silver Mining Co. v. New York, 143 U. S. 305;
Baltic Mining Co. v. Commonwealth, 207 Massachusetts,
381; S. S. White Dental Co. v. Commonwealth, 212 Massachusetts, 35.
If the tax denominated as an excise is not in reality a
tax upon interstate commerce or a tax upon property, the
mode of its measure, however arbitrary and capricious,
is wholly immaterial in this court. Delaware Railroad Tax,
18 Wall. 206, 231.
Whether the excise regulates interstate commerce is a
practical question to be determined by analyzing its effect
in operation. Galveston &c. Ry. Co. v. Texas, 210 U. S.
217, 227; West. Un. Tel. Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1; Pullman Co. v. Kansas, Id. 56; Ludwig v. West. Un. Tel. Co.,
Id. 146; West. Un. Tel. Co. v. Andrews, Id. 165; Atchison,
Topeka &c. Ry. v. O'Connor, 223 U. S. 280.
The exaction in question, considered with reference to
the whole taxation system of Massachusetts and as construed by the courts and as applied to the facts in
these cases, does not as a practical matter regulate interstate commerce in which either plaintiff in error is engaged.
The Baltic Company is not directly engaged in interstate commerce in Massachusetts, and its place of business
therein is not maintained or used for the purposes of interstate commerce.
The White Company was engaged both in interstate
and intrastate business in Massachusetts and maintained
its place of business therein for the purposes of both inter-

BALTIC MINING CO. v. MASSACHUSETTS.
231 U. S.

77-

Argument for Defendant in Error.

state and intrastate business. Osborne v. Florida, 164
U. S. 650.
The only thing conditioned in either of the cases at bar
was the privilege of maintaining an office in Massachusetts
for the purposes of purely local or intrastate business.
It is for the Commonwealth to say whether it will grant
or withhold from the plaintiffs in error the privilege of
maintaining those places of business in the Commonwealth, and to fix the conditions upon which it would
grant that privilege. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 7.
A tax by a State for such a privilege under similar circumstances does not amount to a regulation of interstate
commerce. Pembina Mining Co. v. Pennsylvania, 125
U. S. 181; McCall v. California, 136 U. S. 104; Kehrer v.
Stewart, 197 U. S. 60; Pennsylvania R. R. v. Knight, 192
U. S.'21; Cooper v. Ferguson, 113 U. S. 727, 736. See, also,
Reymann Brewing Co. v. Brister, 179 U. S. 445; Horn
Silver Mining Co. v. New York, 143 U. S. 305; Pullman
Co. v. Adams, 189 U. S. 420; Allen v. Pullman Co., 191
U. S. 171; Osborne v. Florida, 164 U. S. '650; The Daniel
Ball, 10 Wall. 565; Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S. 517; Detroit &c.
Ry. Co. v. Int. Comm. Comm., 167 U. S. 633; Rhodes v.
Iowa, 170 U. S. 412; Kelley v. Rhoades, 188 U. S. 1; Diamond Match Co. v. Ontonagon, 188 U. S. 82.

A tax is not a regulation of interstate commerce merely
because it is assessed upon and paid by a corporation which
is engaged in interstate commerce. Postal Tel. Co. v.
Adams, 155 U. S. 688.
It is not everything that affects commerce that amounts
to a regulation of it within the meaning of the Constitution. State Tax on Railway Gross Receipts, 15 Wall. 284;
Delaware Railroad Tax, 18 Wall. 206.
The excise stands the test of the principles declared in
Western Un. Tel. Co. v. Kansas and,Pullman Co. v. Kansas,
and is constitutional under the commerce clause.

v. Stone-Tracy Co., 220 U. S5.107.

Flint

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

The decisions of the Massachusetts court do not deny
to ordinary business corporations engaged to some extent
in interstate commerce the protection of the commerce
clause of the Constitution. Attorney General v. Electric
Storage Battery Co., 188 Massachusetts, 239. Robbins v.
Shelby Taxing District, 120 U. S. 489, and the other drummer and canvasser cases distinguished.
The exaction, if true to its history, its nature, its name
and its purpose as an excise, did not tax property outside
the Commonwealth of Massachusetts or in any manner
without due process of law.
An excise under the constitution of Massachusetts is no
different in this respect from an excise under the Constitution of the United States containing a similar provision.
Flint v. Stone-Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107, 152.
The right to select the measure and objects of taxation
devolves upon the legislature and not upon the courts.
McCray .v. United States, 195 U. S. 27, 58.
The statute does not deny the plaintiffs in error the
equal protection of the laws. It applies alike to all corporations in the same situation. Southern Railway Co. v.
Greene, 216 U. S. 400, distinguished.
The classification is reasonable. Bell's Gap R. R. Co. v.
Pennsylvania, 134 U. S. 232; Brown-Forman Co. v. Kentucky, 217 U. S. 563, 572; Adams Express Co. v. Ohio, 165
U. S. 194, 228.
The statute does not discriminate against the plaintiffs
inerror.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
These cases present the question of the constitutional
validity of an act of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts
(St. 1909, c. 490, Part III, § 54 et seq.), undertaking to
impose a tax on foreign corporations within the Commonwealth. While the cases are not in all respects parallel

BALTIC MINING CO. v. MASSACHUSETTS.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

they were argued together and present the same questions,
and we shall accordingly dispose of them as one.
The cases were heard upon agreed statements of fact,
which show:
The Baltic Mining Company, a Michigan corporation,
organized for the purpose of mining, producing and selling
copper, with a total authorized capital stock of $2,500,000,
consisting of 100,000 shares of the par value of $25 each,
all of which have been issued and are outstanding, $18
having been paid on each share, owns a copper mine with
equipment in Michigan and has its principal place of
business in that State. It has an office in the City of
Boston, for the use of its president and treasurer, residing
in Boston, for the general financial management and
direction of its affairs and for the meetings of its board
of directors and the transfer of its stock. The Copper
Range Consolidated Company, a New Jersey corporation,
owns and holds 99,659 shares of its stock, and also has an
office and place of business in Boston. The Baltic Mining
Company was admitted to do business in Massachusetts
and complied with the foreign corporation laws of that
State. Its total property and assets amount to $10,776,000,
but none of the property is in Massachusetts except
current bank deposits and a certificate for $80,000 of
stock in another Michigan corporation. It is engaged in
the mining and refining of copper in Michigan, which is
sold for delivery in the several States of the United States
and in foreign countries. The United Metals Selling
Company, a New Jersey corporation, with its principal
office in New York City and with no office in Massachusetts, has the exclusive agency for marketing the Baltic
Mining Company's copper, it making no sales directly itself. Considerable quantities of the copper are sold for delivery in Massachusetts, as well as in other States, and
transported from the Michigan smelter to the purchaser.
In exceptional instances salc are made in Massachusetts

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

for delivery there, but this is out of the usual course of business, not more than five per cent. of the total sales being
made, the larger part being regularly consummated in
New York City. The petition was brought to recover an
excise tax of $500 imposed by the Commonwealth, pursuant to § 56 of the act, and paid 'by the Company, and
was dismissed by the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts. 207 Massachusetts, 381.
The S. S. White Dental Manufacturing Company is a
Pennsylvania corporation, engaged in manufacturing and
buying and selling artificial teeth and dental supplies,
with an authorized capital stock of $1,000,000 and with
its principal office in Philadelphia. Its assets aggregate
$5,711,718.29. It has a usual place of business in Boston,
consisting of large salesrooms, stockrooms, offices and
storerooms, occupied under lease, where it keeps a supply
of goods displayed for sale and in stock. Books are kept
here, a New England sales agent is in charge, and fifty-four
persons are employed, twelve being salesmen who travel
through the New England States, except Connecticut,
and the maritime 'provinces; but no manufacturing is
done in Massachusetts. It sells goods over the counter
from its Boston store and also for delivery in Massachusetts by messenger, mail and express, fifty per cent. of the
sales made at that store being to persons residing in
Massachusetts and fifty per cent. for delivery to persons
residing outside of the State. Goods sold from the Boston
stock for delivery other than over the counter or by mail
or messenger are billed from the Boston salesrooms
directly to the purchaser as consignee from the Company
as consignor. Orders are also accepted at the Boston
salesrooms for delivery from the New York and Pennsylvania factories, such orders being sent to the principal
office in Pennsylvania and filled either in New York or in
Pennsylvania and the goods being billed directly to the
purchaser. Except in intrastate deliveries by messenger,

BALTIC MINING CO. v. MASSACHUSETTS.
231 U. S.

81

O1inion of the Court.

the Company uses public carriers in the transportation
of the goods, and a large percentage of the total sales
require transportation from the New York or Pennsylvania
factories into other States. The stock on hand in the Boston store, the fixtures and the current bank deposits
represent the tangible property in Massachusetts and
amount to about $100,000. The company maintains
fourteen places of business other than the ones in Pennsylvania and Massachusetts, located in New York and
other States. Ten per cent. of the sales are made in
Massachusetts, of which approximately one-half are for
delivery in that State. The Company complied with the
requirement of the laws relating to foreign corporations
for ten years, and seeks to recover an excise tax of $200
levied pursuant to the statute and paid by it. The
Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts held that the
act was valid and dismissed the petition. 212 Massachusetts, 35.
The act provides (§54) for the filing of a certificate
annually by foreign corporations, showing their authorized
capital stock and assets and liabilities, and (§ 55) that
such certificate shall be accompanied by an auditor's
sworn statement and shall be submitted to the commissioner of corporations, who shall assess an excise tax upon
the corporation, in accordance with the provisions of § 56
of the act, and that the certificate shall not be filed until
approved by him and the tax paid.
Section 56 reads:
"Every foreign corporation shall, in each year, at the
time of filing its annual certificate of condition, pay to the
treasurer and receiver general, for the use of the commonwealth, an excise tax to be assessed by the tax commissioner of one-fiftieth of one per cent of the par value of its
authorized capital stock as stated in its annual certificate
of condition; but the amount of such excise tax shall not
in any one year exceed the sum of two thousand dollars."
VOL. CCXXXI-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

It is further provided (§ 58) for notice to foreign corporations failing to file their proper certificates, and thereafter for the forfeiture and collection of penalties and for
the issuance of injunctions until the payment of such
penalties and the filing of such certificates.
The specific. objections of the plaintiffs in error to the
imposition of this tax under the facts shown in the records
are threefold: First, the tax is a regulation of interstate
commerce, in that it imposes a direct burden upon that
portion of the business and capital of the plaintiffs in
error which is devoted to interstate commerce; second,
the tax is in violation of the due process of law clause,
because it attempts to impose taxes upon property beyond
the jurisdiction of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts;
and third, the tax denies to the plaintiffs in error the
equal protection of the law.
It is well settled and requires no review of the decisions
of this court to that effect that the power of Congress over
interstate commerce is supreme under the Federal Constitution and that the States may not burden such commerce, it being th purpose of the Constitution of the
United States to bring commerce of this character under
one suPreme control and to vest the exercise of authority
over it in the general government. It is equally well
settled that forms of regulation prohibited to the State by
the Constitution may consist of efforts to. tax the carrying
on of such commerce and of attempted levies of taxes upon
the receipts of interstate commerce as such. Galveston,
Harrisburg &c. Ry. Co. v. Texas, .210 U. S. 217; Western
Union Telegraph Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1; Pullman Co.
v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 56; Minnesota Rate Cases, 230-U. S.
352, 400, and previous cases in this court therein cited.
While this is true, other equally well established principles must be borne in mind in considering the validity
of a state tax attacked upon grounds of unconstitutionality. The mere fact that a corporation is engaged in

BALTIC MINING CO. v. MASSACHUSETTS.
231 U. S.

83

Opinion of the Court.

interstate commerce does not exempt its property from
state taxation. United States Express Co. v. Minnesota,
223 U. S. 335, 344. It is the commerce itself which must
not be burdened by state exactions which interfere with
the exclusive Federal authority over it. A resort to the
receipts of property or capital employed in part at least
in interstate commerce, when such receipts or capital
are not taxed as such but are taken as a mere measure
of a tax of lawful authority within the State, has been
sustained. Maine v. Grand Trunk Railway Co., 142 U. S.
217; Provident Institution v. Massachusetts, 6 Wall. 611;
Hamilton Co. v. Massachusetts, 6 Wall. 632; Flint v. StoneTracy Co., 220 U. S. 107, 162-5; United States Express Co.
v. Minnesota, supra.
The right of a State to exclude a foreign corporation
from its borders, so long as no principle of the Federal
Constitution is violated in such exclusion, has been repeatedly recognized in the decisions of this court, and the
right to prescribe conditions upon which a corporation of
that character may continue to do business in the State,
unless some contract right in favor of the corporation
prevents or some constitutional right is denied in the
exclusion of such corporation, is but the correlative of the
power to exclude. •Hammond Packing Co. v. Arkansas,
212 U. S. 322, 343; Soiuthern Pacific Co. v. Denton, 146
U. S. 202; Barron v. Burnside, 121 U. S. 186; Insurance
Co. v. Morse, 20 Wall. 445; Herndon v. Chicago, Rock
Island & Pacific Ry. Co., 218 U. S. 135. For example, a
State may not say to a foreign corporation, you may do
business within our borders if you permit your property
to be taken without due process of law, or you may
transact business in interstate commerce subject to the
regulatory power of the State. To allow a State to exercise
such authority would permit it to deprive of fundamental
rights those entitled to the protection of the Constitution
in every part of the Union. Having these general prin-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

ciples in mind, we will proceed to a consideration of
the statute of Massachusetts directly involved in these
cases.
The Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts in considering the character of the tax assessed under the statute
of 1909 said (207 Massachusetts, 388):
"The required payment is strictly of an excise tax, and
not of a tax upon property. . . . This excise tax is for
the commodity or privilege of having an establishment
for business in Massachusetts, with the protection of our
laws and the financial and other advantages of a situation
here."
We have no fault to find with the conclusion that this is
an excise tax. See also Protvident Institutionv. Massachusetts, supra; Hamilton Co. v. Massachusetts, supra,in which
this court had occasion to consider the taxing system of
Massachusetts. That the State may impose a tax upon a
corporation, foreign or domestic, for the privilege of doing
business within its borders is undoubted, and such has
long been the legislative policy of the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts, as appears from the history of legislation
set forth in the opinions in the cases last cited. Construing
the act in question, the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts has held that it does not apply to corporations
engaged in railroad, telegraph, telephone, etc., business
which are taxed on another plan under the provisions of
the statute. It is held not to apply to corporations whose
business is interstate commerce or who carry on interstate
and intrastate business in such clpse connection that the
intrastate business cannot be abandoned without serious
impairment of the interstate business of the corporation.
And the statute, it is held, does not apply to corporations
which have places of business for the transaction solely
of interstate commerce. Attorney General v. Electric
Storage Battery Co., 188 Massachusetts, 239. The tax is
levied upon the privilege of carrying on business within

BALTIC MINING CO. v. MASSACHUSETTS.
231 U. S.

85

Opinion of the Court.

the State and not upon property therein Which is otherwise taxed.
It is said, notwithstanding, that this tax is. a. direct
burden upon interstate commerce and an attempt to tax
property beyond the jurisdict;ion of the State within the
authority of the Kansas cases, Western Union Telegraph
Co. v. Kansas, supra; Pullman Co. v. Kansas, supra.
These cases have been followed by others similar in character. Ludwig v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 216 U. S.
146; Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Andrews, 216 U. S. 165;
Atchison, Topeka & Santa F6 Ry. Co. v. O'Connor, 223
U. S. 280; Oklahoma v. Wells, Fargo & Co., 223 U. S. 298.
In Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Kansas, and Pullman
Co. v. Kansas, the statute under which the, State of Kansas
undertook to levy a charter fee of one-tenth of one per cent.
of their authorized capital upon the first $100,000 of the
capital stock of foreign corporations and one-twentieth
of one per cent. upon the next $400,000, and for each
million or major part thereof, $200, making a tax of $20,100
against the Western Union Telegraph Company and
$14,800 against the Pullman Company, was declared to
be unconstitutional, as having the effect not simply to
exert the lawful power of taxing a foreign corporation for
the privilege of doing local business, but to burden interstate commerce and to reach property represented by
the capital stock, of the companies, which was duly paid
in and invested in property in many States and therefore
beyond the taxing jurisdict-ion of Kansas. Every case
involving the validity of a tax must be decided upon its
own facts, and having no disposition to limit the authority
of those cases the facts upon which they were dcided
must not be lost sight of in deciding other and alleged
similar cases. In the Kansas cases the business of both
complaining companies was commerce, the same instrumentalities and the same agencies carrying on in the same
places the business of the companies of state and inter-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

state character. In the Western Union Telegraph Company Case, the company had a large amount of property
permanently located within the State and between 800
and 900 offices constantly carrying on both state and interstate business. The Pullman Company had been running
a large number of cars within the State, in state and interstate business, for many years. There was no attempt to
separate the intrastate business from the interstate business by the limitations of state lines in its prosecution.
An examination of the previous decisions in this court
shows that they have been decided upon the application
to the facts of each case of the principles which we have
undertaken to state, and a tax has only been invalidated
where its necessary effect was to burden interstate commerce or to tax property beyond the jurisdiction of the
State. In the cases at bar the business for which the companies are chartered is not of itself commerce. True it is
that their products are sold and shipped in interstate
commerce, and to that extent they are e'ngaged in the
business of carrying on interstate commerce and are
entitled to the protection of the Federal Constitution
against laws burdening commerce of that character.
Interstate commerce of all kinds is within the protection
of the Constitution of the United States, and it is not
within the authority of a State to tax it by burdensome
laws. From the statement of facts it is apparent, however,
that each of the corporations in question is carrying on a
purely local and domestic business quite separate from
its interstate transactions. That local and domestic
business, for the privilege of doing which the State has
imposed a tax, is real and substantial and not so connected with interstate commerce as to render a tax upon
it a burden upon the interstate business of the companies
involved. In these cases the ultimate contention is not
that the receipts from interstate commerce are taxed as
such, but that the property of the corporations, including

BALTIC MINING CO. v. MASSACHUSETTS.
231 U. S.

87

Opinion of the Court.

that used in such commerce, represented by the authorized
capital of the corporations, is taxed and therefore interstate commerce is unlawfully burdened by a state statute.
While the tax is imposed by taking a percentage of the
authorized capital, the agreed facts show that the authorized capital is only a part of the capital of the corporations,
respectively. In the Baltic Mining Company Case, the
authorized capital is $2,500,000, while the entire property
and assets are $10,776,000; and in the White Dental Company Case the authorized capital is $1,000,000, while the
assets aggregate $5,711,718.29. Further, the Massachusetts statute limits the tax to a maximum of $2,000. The
conclusion, therefore, that bhe authorized capital is only
used as the measure of a tax, in itself lawful, without the
necessary effect of burdening interstate commerce, brings
the legislation within the authority of the State. So, if the
tax is, as we hold it to be, levied upon, a legitimate subject
of such taxation, it is not void because imposed upon property beyond the State's jurisdiction, for the property itself
is not taxed. In so far as it is represented in the authorized
capital stock it is used only as a measure of taxation, and,
as we have seen, such measure may be found in property
or in the receipts from property not in themselves taxable.
It is further contended that the imposition of the tax
denies the equal protection of1 the laws, and this upon the
authority of Southern Railway Co. v. Greene, 216 U. S. 400.
In that case the railway company had gone into the State
of Alabama and, under authority of the State, acquired
a large amount of railroad property upon which it paid
taxes as well as a license tax imposed by the State. After
the payment of all such taxes and in this condition of
affairs, the State undertook to levy upon the railroad company a privilege tax because it was a foreign corporation,
not imposing the same tax upon domestic corporations
doing precisely the same business. This court held that
the railroad company was a person within the meaning

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

of the Constitution and. entitled to the equal protection
of the laws and that by the taxation of its railroad property under such circumstances it was denied the equal
protection of the law, no like tax being levied upon domestic corporations. It was said in that case (p. 416):
"We have here a foreign corporation within a State, in
compliance with the laws of the State, which has lawfully
acquired a large amount of permanent and valuable
property therein, and which is taxed by a discriminating
method not employed as to domestic corporations of the
same kind, carrying on a precisely similar business."
The conditions existing in the Southern Railway Co. v.
Greene Case are not presented here. It is true that the
plaintiffs in error paid taxes assessed against foreign corporations before the passage of the law of 1909 and that
the White Dental Company had a leasehold for storerooms
in the State, but we do not find in this situation an acquisition of permanent property, such as was shown in the
Greene Case. And there is no question of the continued
authority of the State to tax a foreign corporation for the
privilege of doing business within its borders, which authority the State possesses so long as it does not violate
rights secured by the Federal Constitution. Even if, as
plaintiffs in error contend, under the statute, domestic
corporations are favored, the statute is not invalid, for
no limitation upon the power of a State to exclude foreign
corporations requires identical taxes in all cases upon
domestic and foreign corporations.
As this statute has been construed by the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, and applied in these cases,
we are unable to find that the tax imposed violates the
constitutional rights of the plaintiffs in error.
Judgments affirmed.

Dissenting: THE CHIEF JUSTICE,
and MR. JUSTICE PITNEY.

VANTER

MR. JUSTICE VAN DE-

