UNITED STATES v. MOIST.
231 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

exceptions considered was due to no fault of the appellee,
but solely to the conduct of those then representing the
interests of the estate. It is a doubtful suggestion that an
equity could be founded upon this. Certainly it is an
inadequate ground for the intervention of equity to enforce forfeiture of a claim that could not be defeated, if
at all, except by a most technical application of the law,
and on the assumption that the state court did not know
the law of the State. We shall not speculate upon that
point, beyond saying that we see no reason to doubt that
the state court was right, Bergfors v. Caron, 190 Massachusetts, 168, and cases in 27 Cyc. 85, 87, and .20 Am. &
Eng. Encyc. of Law, 2d ed., 366-368, as we are satisfied
that substantial justice has been done. Some subordinate
matters of detail were argued but they do not seem to us
to need mention; the who~le strength of the case lay in the
matter of which we have disposed.
Decree affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. MOIST.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 378.

Submitted October 22, 1913.-Decided January 5, 1914.

Where it does not appear that the judgment sustaining a demurrer to
the indictment turned upon any controverted construction of the
statute, this court has not jurisdiction to review under the Criminal
Appeals Act of March 2, 1907.
In this case as it does not appear upon what ground the court below
acted in sustaining the demurrer the writ of error is dismissed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 IT. S.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Denison for the United
States.
Mr. Roy D. Keehn for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMEs delivered

the opinion of the court.

This is an indictment under ยง 215 of the Criminal Code
of March 4, 1909, c. 321, 35 Stat. 1130, for placing a letter
in the post-office for delivery by the post-office establishment for the purpose of executing a scheme to defraud.
The scheme alleged was to send out puzzle pictures, advertising as a prize for the neatest correct answer a credit
order for $350 on a certain piano, one for $300 for the next
neatest, and others for $200 for correct answers. Persons
answering were to be told that they were entitled, for
instance, to an order for $200 on a-piano sold the world
over for $300, which would cost them $75 cash with the
order. The credit was to be a pretense, as the piano to be
delivered was to be one of a retail price not exceeding the
cash received. It was not alleged that the piano was to be
worth less than the cash paid, but, as is manifest, people
were to be led into the dealing by the delusive apparatus
of a promise known to be false when made, Durland v.
United States, 161 U. S. 306, and false statements as to the
value of the piano bought. The indictment was demurred
to and the demurrer was sustained.
It will not be necessary to decide whether the facts
alleged show a scheme to defraud, since it does not appear
on what ground the court acted. As was said in United
States v. Carter, ante, pp. 492, 494: "there is nothing in the
record showing any request made to the trial court for an
expression of opinion in such form as to manifest clearly
whether its action proceeded upon a construction of the
statute or merely upon the meaning which was given to
the indictment." As it does not appear that the judgment

RAINEY v. GRACE & CO.
231 U. S.

Syllabus.

turned upon any controverted construction of the statute,
the writ of error must be dismissed in this case as in that.
It is unnecessary to consider whether every determination
concerning the common law of fraud taken for granted
by the act would be a decision based upon the construction
of the statute,, within the meaning of the act of March 2,
1907, c. 2564, 34 Stat. 1246.
Writ of error dismissed.

RAINEY v. W. R. GRACE & COMPANY.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 119.

Submitted December 9, 1913.-Decided January 5, 1914.

A statute, the evident purpose of which is to save expense in litigation,
will be construed in the light of this manifest purpose.
Repeals by implication are not favored and only in cases of clear inconsistency will a later act be-held to repeal an earlier one on the
same subject, but if there is clear inconsistency, as in this case, the
earlier act cannot stand. King v. Cornell, 106 U. S. 395.
Even if it might be true that the earlier act prescribed the better rule,
where Congress having full authority has acted it is the duty of the
courts to enforce the legislation with a view of effecting the purpose
for which it was enacted.
When the appellant in a cause in admiralty causes to be printed and
presented to the Circuit Court of Appeals under the act of February 13, 1911, printed copies of the apostles on appeal, each of
which contains a printed index of the contents thereof and is prepared and printed under a rule of the lower court adopted in pursuance of the said act, the Circuit Court of Appeals is authorized to
hear and determine the cause on such copies and to dispense with
the requirement, of the payment of fees to its clerk by the appellant
as prescribed by its rules and which are the same as those prescribed
by this court under the act of February 19, 1897.
The first section of the act of February 13, 1911, sets aside by implica'

