U. S. FIDELITY CO. v. BARTLETT.
231 U. S

237

Syllabus.

This view of the case renders it unnecessary to decide
whether an original action can be maintained in the state
courts seeking an injunction and to recover damages
under the Sherman Law.
As the Federal question, made in the manner which we
have stated, was in our view wrongly decided and such
decision was the basis of the judgment in the state court,
the judgment of that court must be reversed. Murdock v.
City of Memphis, 20 Wall. 590, 634.
Judgment reversed and case remanded to the state court
whence it came for further proceedings not inconsistent

with this opinion.

UNITED STATES FIDELITY AND GUARANTY
COMPANY v. UNITED STATES FOR THE BENEFIT OF BARTLETT.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND

CIRCUIT.
No. 50.

Argued November 6, 7, 1913.-Decided December 1, 1913.

A bond given pursuant to the act of August 13, 1894, e. 280, 28 Stat.
278, for a contract for building a stone breakwater, under the terms
of this contract, covers claims for labor on work at the quarry and
for hauling and delivering the stone.
Under the circumstances of this case held that the claims of laborers
for wages had been properly assigned to the claimant and clothed
him with legal right to maintaxn an action upon the bond given
under the act of August 13, 1894:.
A claim against the surety on the bond of a government contractor
will not be rejected as fraudulently excessive where it is shown that
claimant's books have been destroyed but he offers to allow credits
properly shown on the contractor's books and the records do not

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Case.

231 U. S.

disclose an attempt to recover more than the amount actually
due.
A claimant will not be charged with laches when the record does not
disclose any delay which affected the relations of the parties or
such that should relieve a surety from liability on the contractor's
bond.
189 Fed. Rep. 339, affirmed.
THME United States, for the benefit of Frank P. Bartlett,
brought suit in the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Southern District of New York against the plaintiff
in error as surety upon a bond given pursuant to the
provisions of an act of Congress (August 13, 1894, c. 280,
28 Stat. 278) to the effect that any person or persons contracting with the Government for the prosecution of
public work should be required to furnish a bond conditioned that the contractor or contractors would "promptly
make payments to all persons supplying him or them labor
and materials in the prosecution of the work provided for
in such contract." Upon trial a verdict was rendered in
his favor, and judgment entered accordingly. The Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed the
judgment (189 Fed. Rep. 339), and this writ of error is
brought to review its judgment.
The record shows: The United States Government
contracted with one Donovan on February 18, 1903, for
the construction of a breakwater off Point Judith, .Rhode
Island, it being provided in the contract that he should
be "responsible for and pay all liabilities incurred in the
prosecution of the work for labor and material." Donovan
executed a bond containing the obligation required by
the act, with the plaintiff in error as surety. Donovan
was associated with Hughes Brothers & Bangs and it was
agreed that they should perform the contract and that
he would turn over the Government's estimates to them,
this fact being known to the plaintiff in error.
An arrangement was made between Hughes Brothers &

U. S. FIDELITY CO. v. BARTLETT.
231 U. S

.

Argument for Pladntiff in Error.

Bangs and Bartlett that he sbhould engage the labor, open
the quarry of the former, located at Sachems Head, Connecticut, about fifty miles from the breakwater, and
superintend the furnishing of stone for the construction
of the breakwater. Bartlett was also to maintain a commissary at the quarry from which the men might be supplied with provisions and merchandise, an account to be
kept of the articles purchased, and, after approval by the
men, forwarded to the office of Hughes Brothers & Bangs,
who would deduct the amount from the wages of the
laborers, this practice being with their consent, and credit
Bartlett's account.
The quarry was operated:, labor being employed in.
various ways from clearing the surface preparatory to
blasting to loading the stone on scows, and the stone was
transported to the breakwater and there deposited according to the direction of a Government inspector. All, save
the inspector and a few of the more skilled workmen,
were provided for at the commissary, and, under the
arrangement described, the amount of their purchases
was deducted from their wages by Hughes Brothers &
Bangs. Separate account was kept of the men who were
actually employed at the breakwater, for the reason that
Bartlett had to wait for them to come back to procure
their approval of his charges, before he could send in his
statement to Hughes Brothers & Bangs.
The contract was completed November 8, 1903, and
on December 22, 1903, the last retained percentage of
$8,956.44 was paid by the United States. Hughes Brothers
& Bangs became insolvent in 1907 or 1908. Suit on the
bond was begun June 4, 1909.
Mr. E. J. Myers, with whom Mr. Leonidas Dennis and
Mr. Gordon S. P. Kleeberg were on the brief, for plaintiff
in error:
Neither the act of Congress. nor the terms of the bond

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

231 U. S.

warrant a recovery for preparation for the performance
of the contract. City Trust Co. v. United States, 147 Fed.
Rep. 155; United States v. Hyatt, 92 Fed. Rep. 442;
United States v.*Morgan, 111 Fed. Rep. 474; United States
v. Kimpland, 93 Fed. Rep. 403.
Instrumentalities and plant (i. e., cost of)
capable of
general use by the contractor cannot be recovered in this
action.
Transportation and carriage of the material at points
distant from the place whereat the work is done is also
excluded. United States v. Fidelity & Deposit Co., 86 App.
Div. (N. Y.) 475; Kennedy v. Commonwealth, 182 Massachusetts, 480; Philadelphiav. Malone, 214 Pa. St. 90, 95.
As to the strictness of the rule that mechanics' liens can
be sustained only for materials that actually go into the
work and labor performed at the place, see City Trust Co.
v. United States, 147 Fed. Rep. 155; Schaghticoke Powder
Co. v. Greenwich Ry. Co., 183 N. Y. 306; Troy Public Works
Co. v.. Yonkers, 207 N. Y. 81; Haynes v. Holland, 48 S. W.
Rep. 400.
No assignment of the wages to be thereafter earned
was proven sufficient to sustain a recovery in an action at
law, but the transaction at most only constituted an
equitable assignment, enforcible only in equity, and
cognizable at law only after it had been legally completed
or established.
An equitable title is insufficient in the Federal courts
to sustain an averment of legal title alleged in an action at
law, and required to sustain judgment therein. Ridings v.
Johnson, 128 U. S. 212, 217; Pacific Mut. Ins. Co. v. Webb,
157 Fed. Rep. 155; Levi v. Mathews, 145 Fed. Rep. 152.
An assignment at law must be of a perfect and choate
cause of action and not predicated upon that which is to be
earned in futuro and to accrue upon the performance of
acts subsequent to the promise to assign. Matter of Black,
138 App. Div. (N. Y.) 562.

U. S. FIDELITY CO. v. BARTLETT.
231 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The transaction constituted, at the most, only an
equitable assignment of the laborers' wages which was
only capable of being enforced in equity. Hovey v. Elliott,
118 N. Y. 124; Union Trust Co. v. Bulkeley, 150 Fed. Rep.
510, 544.
The claim against the surety was a fraud in law because
the demand upon the surety was for a willfully exaggerated and unconscionable amount which the creditor knew
was not due when he made the demand.
The demand was inextricably confounded with items
constituting the largest part thereof, not recoverable under the surety's undertaking. Title G. & T. Co. v. Puget
Sound Engine Works, 163 Fed. Rep. 168, 174; Title G. &
T. CO v. Crane Co., 219 U. S. 34; United States v. Ansonia
Brass Co., 218 U. S. 452, 471; United States v. Fidelity &
Deposit Co., 86 App. Div.. (N. Y.) 475, 479; Kennedy v.
Commonwealth, 182 Massachusetts, 480.
A claim of lien for a willfully exaggerated and unconscionable amount cannot be enforced against the owner
even for the actual amount that may be due.
It is a fraud in law and vitiates the entire lien. Lane
v. Jones, 79 Alabama, 156, 163. Camden Iron Works v.
Camden, 60 N. J. Eq. 211, 214; Uthoff v. Gerhard,42 Mo.
App. 256.
The claim made against the surety is so gross, so exorbitant and so unconscionable as to defeat any and all
right of recovery.
Regardless of statute and without the necessity of
contractual engagement, the law incorporates good faith
in every undertaking and refuses to enforce any liability
that violates this principle. Industrial Trust, Ltd., v. Tod,
180 N. Y. 215, 225; Aeschlimann v. PresbyterianHospital,
165 N. Y. 296, 302.
In this case demand and suit was brought against the
surety for three-fold more than the creditor was entitled
to without any notice nearly seven years after the occurVOL. ccxxx-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

rence.

231 U. S.

Equitable Savings Assn. v. Hewitt, 55 Oregon, 329,

338.
Where the items for which a lien can be claimed are
inextricably blended and intermingled with items for
which no right of lien can be urged, the action cannot
be maintained. United States v. Conkling, 135 Fed. Rep.
508, 512; Schulenburg v. Strimple, 33 Mo. App. 154.
The creditor was guilty of such gross laches and delay
in presenting his claim against the surety that his action,
followed as it was by the withdrawal of retained percentages and the insolvency of the principal, bars recovery.
United States F. &. G. Co. v. United States, 191 U. S: 416,
426; United States v. American Bonding Co., 89 Fed. Rep.
921.
The admissions and declarations of Hughes Brothers &
Bangs, who were subcontractors of the principal in the
bond, were inadmissible and incompetent as against the
surety. 1 Greenleaf Evidence, ยง 187 (16th ed., note 1);
Hatch v. Elkins, 65 N. Y. 489, 496; Rae v. Beach, 76 N. Y.
164, 168; Wheeler v. State, 56 Tennessee, 393; White v.
Bank, 56 Tennessee, 475; Bocard v. State, 79 Indiana, 270;
Knott v. Peterson, 125 Iowa, 404, 407; Lee v. Brown, 21
Kansas,. 458; Howe v. Farrington, 16 Hun (N. Y.), 591;
Ayer v. Getty, 46 Hun (N. Y.), 287, 288.
Mr. Edward W. Norris and Mr. Horace L. Cheyney, with
whom Mr. Henry B. Hammond was on the brief, for defendant in. error.
After making the foregoing statement, MR. JUSTICE
delivered the memorandum opinion of the court.

DAY

The nature of liability upon bonds given in pursuance of
the act of Congress has been the subject of frequent consideration in this court, and the former discussions and
conclusions need not be repeated here. Guaranty Co. v.

U. S. FIDELITY CO. v. BARTLETT.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Pressed Brick Co., 191 U.. S. 416, 427; Hill v. American
Surety Co., 200 U. S. 197; Mankin v. Ludowici-Celadon
Co., 215 U. S. 533.
The first contention of the plaintiff in error is that the
work done at the quarry and the hauling and delivering
of stone at the breakwater, or, at least, certain parts of
such work, are not within the terms of the contract and
bond, as work done or material furnished in the prosecution of the work provided for in the contract. . This contention was rejected by the court below and we think
properly. The object of the contract was to put the stone
in place, much of it being merely dropped into the water,
with a view to the construction of the breakwater. To
accomplish this purpose it was of course necessary to have
the material taken from the quarry, using tools and labor
for that purpose, and transported to the location of the
breakwater and there deposited. This material could not
be had immediately at the breakwater, and bids were
required to show samples of stone and names and locations of quarries to be used as the source of supply. The
work involved in the claim here made was all necessary
to the performance of the contract, and in our view comes
clearly within the class of labor accounts the satisfaction
of which it was the purpose of the act of Congress to secure
by a proper bond.
It is next contended that the laborers had not assigned
their claims to Bartlett in such way as to give him any
more than an equitable right thereto and had not clothed
him with the legal right to maintain an action at law upon
the bond. But we think that the testimony discloses that
so much of the laborers' wages,as were necessary to satisfy
Bartlett's advances were assigned to him with their con-.
sent and deductions to that extent made from such wages
with their approval in such wise as to consummate the
assignment.
It is next urged that in making the claim for an excessive

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

amount there was such gross fraud that no recovery can
be had in the case. It is sought to bring this contention
within that class of cases which have held that mechanics'
liens when willfully and intentionally made for an amount
in excess of that fairly due cannot be enforced for any
sum. We do not think the record displays a case of that
character. It appears that some of the books of Bartlett
-left in a building at the quarry had been destroyed and
that efforts were made to obtain the amount of payments
from other sources. At the trial it appeared that the
credits to be made upon the account were contained upon
certain cards which were in the possession of counsel'
for the plaintiff in error. Upon production at the trial
they were admitted and accepted as containing proper
credits to be made upon the account, and the judge
charged the jury that the credits shown on the cards should
be made the basis of calculations by the jury, if they
found under the facts shown that any statement of the
account was required, and the verdict was rendered
accordingly.
As to the contention that the suit of defendant in error,
in view of the delay in bringing it and want of previous
demand or notice to the surety, shows gross laches, we
agree with the Circuit Court of Appeals that the record
does not disclose any such laches or change of relation
affecting the rights of the surety as would relieve it of
liability. Nor do we think there was such confusion of
accounts or error in the admission of testimony as to
require a reversal.
It therefore follows that the judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals, affirming the judgment of the Circuit
Court, must be
Affirmed.

