PULLMAN CO. o. CROOM.
231 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

THE PULLMAN COMPANY v. CROOM, COMPTROLLER OF THE STATE OF FLORIDA.
SAME v. SAME.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.

Nos. 28, 158.

Argued October 31, November 3, 1913.-Decided
December 22, 1913.

A suit to enjoin a public officer from enforcing a statute is personal, and
in the absence of statutory provision for continuing it against his
successor, abates upon his death or retirement from office. United
Staes v. Boutwell, 17 Wall. 604.
The only exceptions recognized to this rule are boards and bodies of
quasi-corporate character having continuous existence. Marshall v.
Dye, ante, p. 250.
The act of February 8, 1899, c. 1i21, 30 Stat. 822, providing for substituting the successors in office of public officers, applies only to
Federal officials and not to state officials.
Where the only state official, as to whom an injunction against
enforcing a state statute has been applied for under § 266 of the
Judicial Code and denied, dies pending the appeal, the action abate.
and the appeal to this court will be dismissed.
In such a case an order based upon a stipulation continuing the case
against the successor of the deceased defendant must and can be
vacated, there having been no final judgment in the case.
The fact that other officials had been joined as defendants cannot give
this court jurisdiction of an appeal from an order denying an injunction applied for under § 266 of the Judicial Code where the injunction had only been asked against an officer who has died pending
the appeal.
THESE are appeals from orders of the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Northern District of Florida.
The Pullman Company, appellant herein, in its. complaint filed in the court below, in the first case (No. 28

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Case.

231 U. S.

of this term), alleged that it was an Illinois corporation,
engaged in furnishing to railroad companies under contract parlor, dining and sleeping cars in Florida and other
States and had complied with the laws of Florida requisite
to engaging in that business; that the defendant, A. C.
Croom, was the duly qualified Comptroller of the State
of Florida, charged with the collection of all taxes due from
such companies. It averred that chapter 5597 of the laws
of Florida for the year 1907 provides for the payment of
license taxes to the State, and that it had paid such taxes;
that § 46 of chapter 5596 provides for the collection of an
ad valorem tax upon the cars of sleeping and parlor car companies, and that it had satisfied such tax. The appellant
further averred that by the provisions of an act approved
June 1, 1895, which by sundry amendments had been reenacted and incorporated into chapter 5596, being § 47,
sleeping and parlor car companies operating their cars in
the State were required to annually report, under oath, the
total amount of the gross receipts of business done between
points in the State to the Comptroller of the State, and to
pay into the State Treasury $1.50 upon each $100 of such
gross receipts, and in event of failure to make the report
and pay the tax the Comptroller was authorized to estimate the amount of such gross receipts from the informati n he might obtain and to add a penalty of telh per. cent.
of the tax, and to collect it, with costs and penalties, the
same as other delinquent taxes.
The appellant stated that since the passage of the act in
1895 and up to 1907, no property tax had been levied upon
it and that it had therefore taken the act of 1895 to impose
a tax upon its property and had paid the amount required
by it; but it asserted that the act of 1907, § 46 of chapter 5596, contained an ad valorem tax, and it-stated that it
had not made a report of its business on January 1, 1910,
or January 1, 1911, as required by the act and had not paid
the tax provided for, and that the defendant had demanded

PULLMAN CO. v. CROOM.
231 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

by wire that the reports be sent in at once. It assailed
the constitutionality of the law, and pleaded allegations
to support its claim to jurisdiction of the case by the court
in equity. It prayed that the defendant be restrained and
enjoined from estimating the gross receipts of the company
and adding the penalty and from issuing a warrant for
the collection of the tax, as provided by § 47 of chapter 5596, and from taking any action to enforce the payment of such tax or penalty, and that the act be declared
void.
A restraining order was granted, but upon application for
an injunction pendente lite, the Circuit Judges for the Fifth
Circuit held that § 47 of chapter 5596, taken in connection
with chapter 5597, provides for a graded license tax on all
sleeping and parlor car companies operating their cars in
the State and is within the legislative power of the State,
and that until the complainant had complied with the
requirements of the act it had no standing in equity,
and denied the application. Thereupon an appeal was
sued out to this court.
Thereafter the defendant notified the complainant that
unless it made report within a time stated he would proceed to estimate the amount of the gross receipts and
take such further action as the statute warranted. The
complainant then, under protest, filed its return for the
years ending October 31, 1909, and October 31, 1910,
but did not pay the tax required by the act. The defendant issued a warrant of the State to the sheriff of Duval
County, who levied upon one of the complainant's cars,
and the complainant paid the taxes for the years 1909 and
1910, with costs.
The complainant later filed its bill in the second case
(No. 158 of this term), containing practically the same
allegations as its former bill, with additional averments.
with reference to the return and tax for the year 1911, and
statements concerning the payment of the taxes for 1909

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

and 1910. W. V. Knott, Treasurer of the State of Florida,
was made a defendant and the complainant prayed that
he be compelled to repay the taxes and costs collected
by the sheriff and turned over to him. The Circuit Judges
again denied the application for an injunction pendente
lite, upon the ground that § 47, read in connection with
chapter 5597, provides for a graded license tax and is legal.
An appeal was likewise sued out to this court.
On April 21, 1913, by stipulation and order, W. V. Knott
was substituted for the appellee, A. C. Croom, in both
cases, Croom having died and Knott having succeeded
him in the office of Comptroller; and J. C. Lunning was
substituted for the appenee, W. V. Knott, ih the second
case, having succeeded him as Treasurer.
Mr. Frank B. Kellogg, with whom Mr. Gustavus S.
Fernald was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. T. F. West, Attoi iey General of the State of Florida,
with whom Mr. Park Trammell, former Attorney General
of the State o Florida, was on the brief, for appellee.

After making the foregoing statement, MR. JUSTICE

DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.
Section 266 of the Judicial Code, practically a rednactinent of § 17 of the act of June 18, 1910 (c. 309, 36 Stat.
539, 557), regulates the granting of injunctions by Federal
courts in cases depending upon the alleged repugnancy
of state statutes to the Federal Constitution. The requirement is that applications for temporary injunction
in such cases shall be heard before three judges, one of
whom shall be a justice of this court or a circuit judge,
and an appeal from an order granting or denying an interlocutory injunction in such cases may be prosecuted directly to this court. These appeals are brought under that

PULLMAN CO. v. CROOM.
231 U. S.

Opinion Df the Court.

section. They are from the orders of the court below denying the application for an interlocutory injunction. In
that aspect alone the cases are now before the court. In
the second suit, it is true, the Treasurer was brought in,
with a view to the recovery from him of the moneys
wrongfully collected over the protest of the Pullman
Company; but no injunction was asked against him, and
his presence in the case does not concern the inquiry as
to the right to the temporary injunction against the
Comptroller, restraining him from levying and collecting
the taxes.
The order of substitution was made upon the stipulation
and was granted without discussion. In the brief of the
Attorney General the matter is submitted to the decision
of the court, with an expression of doubt as to whether
such substitution of parties can be made in cases of this
character, and the question is thus called to the court's
attention. In this situation the cases are controlled by
the repeated adjudications of this court governing the
right of substitution where relief is sought against persons
who are situated as was the Comptroller in this case.
The leading case upon substitution of parties in such
cases is United States v. Boutwell, 17 Wall. 604, which
involved the right to substitute in a suit for mandamus
the successor of the Secretary of the Treasury for the one
who held that office at the time the suit was commenced.
Mr. Justice Strong, who deltivered the opinion of the court,
pointed out that the purpose of a writ of mandamus is
to enforce the personal obligation of the individual, no
matter how the duty arose, and that even if the party be
an officer and the duty official, mandamus does not reach
the office, but is directed s.olely to the person, who alone
can be punished for failure to conform to the mandate,
and the suit is therefore a personal. action based upon the
alleged fact that the defendant has failed to perform a
personal duty. And the court concluded that, since the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

personal duty of the defendant lasted only so long as he
occupied the office, and as his successor was not his personal representative and could not be held responsible
for his delinquencies, for the successor might have acted
differently than thedefendant, such action, in the absence
of a statute to the contrary, must abate upon the death
or retirement from office of the original defendant. This
case has been uniformly followed, and applied to suits for
injunction as well as for the writ of mandamus. Warner
Valley Stock Co. v. Smith, 165 U. S. 28, 33.
"And in United States ex rel. Bernardin v. Butterworth,
169 U..S. 600, it was held that the substitution could not
be made, although consent was given by the successor
in office. In that case it was suggested that in view of the
present state of the law it seemed desirable that Congress
should provide for the difficulty by enacting a statute
which would permit the successors of heads of departments who had died or resigned to be brought into the
case by appropriate method. Thereupon Congress passed
the act of February 8, 1899 (c. 121, 30 Stat. 822), under
the provisions of which, by proper steps, successors of
officers of the United States may be.substituted for them
in suits commenced against the latter in their official
capacity. Subsequently, in Caledonian Coal Co. v. Baker,
196 U. S. 432, 442, this court held, after noticing the cases
of United States v. Boutwell, supra, and United States
ex rel. Bernardin v. Butterworth, supra, and other cases,
and the statute just referred to, that, in so far as the
successor to a territorial district judge was concerned,
the statute had authorized substitution.
The above cases establish the practice of this court, and
until the statute of 1899 the practice was uniformly adhered to. That statute affects only Federal officials and
leaves the doctrine of the prior cases undisturbed as to
the substitution of state officials. -The only exception
recognized in the decisions of this court has been boards

PULLMAN CO. v. CROOM.
231 U. S.

Opinion (if
the Court.

and bodies of a quasi-corpocrate character, having a continuing existence. See Marshall et al. v. Dye, ante, p.
250.
In Richardson v. McChesney, 218 U. S. 487, this court
held that the defendant, McChesney, although named as
Secretary of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, was sued
persorially. and concluded that (p. 493) "as his official
authority has-terminated, the case, so far as it seeks to
accomplish the object of the bill, is at an end, there being
no statute providing for the substitution of McChesney's
successor in a suit of this character. The case is governed
by United States v. Boutwell, 17 Wall. 604; United States
ex rel. Bernardin v. Butterworth, 169 U. S. 600, and Caledonian Coal Co. v. Baker, 196 U. S.432, 441."
It therefore follows that in the present aspect of these
cases, upon appeal from orders denying an interlocutory
injunction, the only party appellee involved in this inquiry, A. C. Croom, Comptroller, having died pending
the proceedings and there being, no statute concerning
such cases, the order of substitution made at the former
term must be vacated, the matter being still within the
control of the court, there having been no final judgment
in the case (Iowa V. Illinois, 151 U. S. 238).
It will therefore be ordeired that these appeals be dismissed for want of a proper appellee to stand in judgment
upon the only question brought to this court,
And it is so ordered.

voL. ccxxx--37

