GRAND TRUNK RY. v. MICHIGAN RY. COMM.
231 U. S.

457

Syllabus.

ferred by Congress, its orders are not open to judicial
review.
What has been said respecting the enforced disposition
of the charges for property abandoned in grade revision,
applies as well to the abandonment of the present shop and
terminal plant at Shreveport.
Decree affirmed.

GRAND TRUNK RAILWAY COMPANY v. MICHIGAN RAILROAD COMMISSION.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF TE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
No. 382.

Argued October 23, 24, 1913.-Decided December 8, 1913.

A State is competent to create a commission and give it power of regulating railroads and investigating conditions upon which regulation
may be directed; and the judiciary will only interfere with such a
commission when it appears that it has clearly transcended its
powers.
Courts are reluctant to interfere with the laws of a State or with the
tribunals constituted to enforce them; doubts will not be resolved
against the law.
It cannot as yet be asserted that Congress has, to the exclusion of the
States, taken over the whole subject of carriers' terminals, switchings and sidings; and quwre where the accommodation between intrastate and interstate commerce shall be made.
The fact that a movement of freight begins and ends within the limits
of a city does not take from it its character of an actual transportation between two termini; and so held in regard to transportation
between junction points in Detroit, Michigan.
While a city may be in some senses a terminal unit, the State Railroad
Commission may regulate traffic between different points therein as
transportation, and to do so does not amount to an appropriation
of the terminals of one road for the use and benefit ofother I-oads.
Transportation is the business of railroads and when, and to what extent,
that business may be regulated. so depends upon circumstances that

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

no inflexible rule can be laid down. Wisconsin &c. R. R. Co. v.
Jacobson, 179 U. S. 287.
If the provisions for penalties in a statute creating a railroad commission and providing for the enforcement of the orders made by it are
separable, as in this case, their constitutionality can be determined
when their enforcement is attempted, and the operation of the whole
act will not be suspended before that event. Louis. & Nash. R. R.
Co. v. Garrett,ante, p. 298.
Railroad companies are incorporated for purposes of transportation;
and the fact that a company was not specifically incorporated to
carry on intra-city transportation cannot prevail against the power
of the State to regulate it in regard to legitimate elements of transportation within the city.
An order of the Michigan Railroad Commission requiring certain railroads doing an interstate business to use their tracks within the city
limits of Detroit for the interchange of intrastate traffic, sustained as
being within the regulating power of the commission; and also held
that such order was not unconstitutional as interfering with interstate commerce or as depriving the carriers of their property without
due process of law.
198 Fed. Rep. 1009, affirmed.

facts, which involve the validity of an order of the
Michigan Railroad Commission relative to intrastate
transportation and switch connections in the city of
Detroit, are stated in the opinion.
THE

Mr. George W. Kretzinger, Jr., with whom Mr. G. W.
Kretzinger and Mr. Aldis B. Browne were on the brief,
for appellants.
Mr. Hal H. Smith, with whom Mr. Grant Fellows,
Attorney General of the State of Michigan, was on the
brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
Appeal from a decree of the District Court, three judges
sitting, denying a motion of appellants for interlocutory

GIRANI) 'IHUJNK RY. v. MICHIGAN RY. COMM.

2il U. S.

459

Opinion or the Court.

injunction against an order of the Michigan Railroad
Commission and the denial of a motion of appellants for
the continuance of a restraining order theretofore entered
in the case.
The Commission was constituted by the Public Acts of
the State and invested with quite full and detailed powers
of regulation of the railroads of the State. Act No. 300 of
the Public Acts of Michigan of 1909, as amended by Act
No. 139, 1911.
Section 7 as originally enacted and as amended is alone
specially relevant to the discussion and is inserted in the
margin, subdivision (d) being; the amendment. 1
' (55) SEc. 7. (a) All railroads, subject to the provisions of this act,
shall afford all reasonable and proper facilities by the establishment
of switch connections between one another and the establishment of
depots and otherwise for the interchange of traffic between their respective lines and for the receiving, forwarding and delivering of passengers and property to and from their several lines and those connecting therewith, and shall transfer and deliver without unreasonable delay or discrimination any freight or cars or passengers destined to any

point on its own line or on any connecting line, and shall not discriminate in their rates and charges between such connecting lines: Provided,
precedence may be given to live stock and perishable property. Nothing in this act shall be construed as requiring any railroad to give the
use of its tracks or terminal facilities to another railroad engaged in like
business. Any person or any officer or agent of any corporation or
company who shall deliver property for transportation to any common
carrier subject to the provisions of this act shall have the right and
privilege of routing such shipments and of prescribing and directing
over what connecting line property so shipped shall be transported,
and it shall be the duty of the initial carrier to observe the direction of
such person or such officer or agent of any corporation or company,
and to cause such freight to be transported over such connecting line
as may be directed and required by such shipper.
(57) (c) Every corporation owning a railroad in use shall, at reasonable times and for a reasonable compensation, draw over the same the
merchandise and cars of any other corporation or individual having
connecting tracks; Provided, such cars are of the proper gauge, are in
good running order and equipped as required by law and otherwise

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

After the amendment took effect, and on July 29, 1911,
the Grand Trunk System, which is constituted of a number
of railroad lines, published a tariff of charges, to be effective September 1, 1911, which; among other things, set
forth the rates for the designated services within the
corporate limits of the City of Detroit and as to team
track services as follows:
"In case team track deliveries are required for the unloading of shipments received from other carriers, or when
safe for transportation and properly loaded; Provided further, if the
corporations cannot agree upon the times at which the cars shall be

drawn, or the compensation to be paid, the said commission shall,
upon petition of either party and notice to the other, after hearing the

parties interested, determine the rate of compensation and fix such
other periods, having reference to the convenience and interests of the
corporation or corporations and the public to be accommodated thereby,
and the award of the commission shall be binding upon the respective
corporations interested therein until the same shall have been revised.
(57a) (d) Every common carrier operating within this state shall
receive and transport at reasonable rates any and all carload traffic
offered for transportation under the usual conditions locally consigned
between points in the same city or town and shall receive and transport
at reasonable rates from any junction point or transfer point or intersection with another railroad in such city or town any and all such
carload freight destined to team tracks or other sidings on any line operated by the delivering carrier, and shall deliver such car or cars upon
such team tracks or sidings in the city or town where such car or cars
are received from such connecting line when required so to do: Provided, that when delivery is requested which will involve the use of a
private siding not owned or controlled by consignee, said consignee
shall file with both receiving and delivering carriers written permission
signed by the owner or lessee of such private siding authorizing the use
of same. When the particular delivery desired cannot be accomplished
owing to the congestion of cars upon such siding or team tracks, it shall
be the duty of the delivering carrier to notify consignee of such conditions and it shall be the duty of such consignee upon receipt of such
notice to advise upon what other siding delivery will. be accepted
or whether or not it is desired that such car or cars shall be held awaiting the opportunity for delivery upon the siding originally designated
as the destination.

GRAND TRUNK RY. v. MICHIGAN RY. COMM. 461
231 U. S.

Opinion of' the Court.

such team tracks are used for the loading of shipments for
delivery to other carriers, t hree dollars per car in excess
of the charge made for switching to or from industrial
sidings will be assessed."
This tariff also provided a charge of $5.00 for switching
to and from industrial sidings and a charge of $8.00 for
team track delivery from junction points with other roads
within the switching limits -of Detroit.
A complaint was made by one John S. Haggerty to the
Commission of this difference as discriminatory. Haggerty, it is said in one of the briefs, conducts a brickmaking plant, having a siding on one of the railroads in
Detroit, and to supply his trade ships carloads of freight
over various railroad lines doing business in the city,
among which are the lines of the Grand Trunk System.
An answer was filed to the complaint by the Grand
Trunk Western Railway Company. After hearing, the
Commission held that the difference in rates was discriminatory and the railway company was ordered to file
a tariff removing the discrimination, that is, the discrimination between the charges for industrial switching
and for switching between junction points and team tracks;
and to publish and make effective "like charges for the
movement of a carload shipment received from an industry within the City of Detroit, upon the said Grand
Trunk Western Railway, consigned for delivery upon a
team track or other siding of said road within the same
city, and for a like shipment received by said Grand
Trunk Western Railway from a connecting carrier at a
junction point within the corporate limits of the city of
Detroit, consigned to a team track or other siding upon
said road within the same city."
Subsequently to the making of such order the Grand
Trunk System published a new tariff to be effective
March 16, 1912, naming a rate of $5.00 between industrial
tracks and a like rate between junction points with con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

necting carriers, within the switching district of Detroit,
and industrial tracks within the said limits; $8.00 between
junction points with other railroad companies, within said
limits, and team tracks within said limits; and $8.00 between team tracks on the railway's' own lines. The
tariff was duly filed with the Commission and with the
Interstate Commerce Commission.
Haggerty filed a supplementary petition with the
Commission complaining that the new rates were unreasonable and exorbitant, and, on March 15, 1912, the
Commission ordered the postponement of the same until April 29 to give the Commission an opportunity for
investigation into "the reasonableness of such proposed
rate and the matter set forth in the complaint." Thereupon the Grand Trunk System issued a supplement to its
tariff suspending the intrastate rates named in its tariff,
and, on March 30, published a new tariff canceling all
rates between industries having private sidings on the
System and hold or team tracks on that System, and all
rates between junction points with other carriers within
the corporate limits of Detroit and the team tracks of the
System. The effect of this tariff was to withdraw all intrastate and interstate switching movements, except as to
the Detroit & Toledo Shore Line, with which the Grand
Trunk was under contract for terminal switching.
On April 10 the Commission suspended this supple-.
mental tariff in order to give it opportunity to investigate,
and two days afterward the bill in this case was filed.
On April 27 an amended bill was filed, and, on the same
day, the Detroit, Grand Haven & Milwaukee Railway
Company filed its bill.
We may observe that the order of the Commission of
April 10 is the only one in controversy. The other
orders of February 6 and March 15, 1912, were directed against the Grand Trunk Western Railway, and
when it 'came to the knowledge of the Commission that

GRAND TRUNK RY. v. MICHIGAN RY. COMM. 463
231 U. S.

Opinion

Of

the Court.

that road did not enter the city, the orders were canceled.
The bills prayed that the acts referred to and the order
of the Commission be declared null and void as to complainants, that injunctions interlocutory and perpetual
be granted restraining appellees from executing the order,
and from taking any steps or proceedings to enforce any
of the penalties or remedies of the statute.
Answers were filed to the bills, and supporting and
attacking affidavits. The District Court upon hearing
denied an injunction and vacated the restraining order,
but suspended the formal entry of its orders. Subsequently the cases were consolidated for the purposes of an
appeal, and an appeal allowed. The bond was fixed at
$100,000 and the restraining orders continued in force
pending the appeal.
The two suits may be treated as one, the material
points being identical, except as to the territory through
which the roads run and the diversity of citizenship which
exists only in the first suit filed. The foundation of both
suits is the same, that the order of the Commission and
the acts of the State under which it was made, in so far
as the order and the acts require of complainants or their
property any of the services above set forth or so threatened to be required, constitute the taking of their property
without due process of law in contravention of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States; and is also a violation of the commerce clause of
that instrument. The specification under the latter is
"that Congress has taken over the whole subject matter of
terminals, team tracks, switching tracks, sidings, etc., of
carriers engaged in interstate commerce, and has enacted
that such carriers shall not be required to give the use of
such terminal facilities to other carriers engaged in like
business."
It is further objected against said order that the com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

panies were not incorporated for the purpose of local or
intrastate switching or drayage business, but for the purpose of interstate and intrastate commerce; and, further,
the penalties prescribed by the acts under which the Commission purported to have acted are so drastic that a
resort to court to test the validity thereof is at the risk of
imprisonment in the jails of the various counties where the
lines of the companies run, and, therefore, the companies
are denied the equal protection of the laws and their property is taken without due process of law.
The question in the case is whether, under the statutes
of the State of Michigan, appellants can be compelled to
use the tracks it owns and operates in the city of Detroit
for the interchange of intrastate traffic; or, stating the
question more specifically, whether the companies shall
receive cars from another carrier at a junction point or
physical connection with such carrier within the corporate
limits of Detroit for transportation to the team tracks of
the companies; and whether the companies shall allow the
use of their team tracks for cars to be hauled from their
team tracks to a junction point or physical connection
with another carrier within such limits and be required to
haul such cars in either of the above-named movements
or between industrial sidings.
It is contended that the order is an interference with
interstate commerce. The contention is premature, if
not without foundation. Section 7, before its amendment,
required all railroads subject to it to establish switching
connections between one another and to establish depots,
and otherwise, for the interchange of traffic between
their respective lines and for the recepiving, forwarding
and delivering of property and passengers to and from
their several lines and those connecting therewith, and
also for the transfer and delivery of cars without unreasonable delay or discrimination to any point on their own
lines or on any connecting line, and forbidding discrimina-

GRAND TRUNK RY. v. MICHIGAN RY. COMM.
231 U. S.

465

Opinion of the Court.

tion in rates and charges. And the respective companies
were required to draw over their roads the merchandise
and cars of any other corporation or individual having
connecting tracks when the cars are of proper gauge, equipment, and properly loaded. Power was given to the
Commission, if the compensation could not be agreed on
by the roads, to fix such compensation. In other words,
the duty of investigation was imposed on the Commission
awid the duty to render such judgment as was suitable to
the situation and to award compensation to the carriers
for any service required of them.
We have seen from the statement of facts that the first
concern of the Grand Trunk was the right to charge what
it pleased or discriminate between the services. Inconvenience to its interstate business seems to be an after
thought. Besides, the fact of inconvenience is disputed.
It is charged, it is true, in an affidavit filed by appellants;
but there was a counter affidavit, and it was averred that
the interchange of traffic required by the legislature of the
State did not impede interstate business, but on the contrary facilitated it and intrastate commerce and relieVed,
not caused, congestion on the tracks of the various railroads in the city. And, as we have seen, the order of the
Commission was suspensory only of the tariff of the appellants, not a final determination against it or of the
conditions which might or might not justify it. It is too
late in the day to question the competency of a State to
create a commission and to give it the power of regulating
railroads and necessarily of investigating the conditions
upon which regulation may be directed. If a judicial
interference is sought with the exercisq of such power
it must be clearly shown to have been transcended, not
left as a conclusion from the balancing of conflicting affidavits, or even, it may be, as held by the District Court,
on ex parte affidavits. Courts are reluctant to interfere
with the laws of a State or with the tribunals constituted
VOL. ccxxxi-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

to enforce them. Doubts will, not be. resolved against
the law, nor the decision of its tribunals prevented or
anticipated unless the necessity for either be demonstrated.
Upon these principles the District Court acted, and
rightly acted.
We will not dwell on the contention of appellants that
Congress has taken over the whole subject of terminals,
team tracks, switching tracks, sidings, etc. We need
make no other comment than that it cannot be asserted
as a matter of law that Congress has done so; and where
the accommodation between intrastate and interstate
commerce shall be made we are not called upon to say on
this record.
Before proceeding to the more important contention of
appellants, that is, movement between junction points
and other points, it is well to observe that a distinction is
alleged to exist between team tracks and industrial sidings
or tracks. The allegation (which is neither admitted nor
denied in the answer) is that the lands upon which the
latter are located are held, owned, or were acquired for
the purpose of accommodating the tracks without expense to appellants, either in the acquisition or maintenance of the lands or tracks. Appellants, it is urged
further, are not responsible for cars placed on such tracks
nor are appellants required to police them. Team tracks
are laid upon the ground acquired by appellants and were
constructed and are maintained by them. The latter,
therefore, are distinctly accessories or facilities in the
receipt and delivery of freight in transportation, both
within and to and from points outside of the city. The
industrial sidings have, it may be said, more special character. But upon this distinction no point is made in the
argument and the District Court left it untouched in its
decision, no doubt because' in that court, as here, no emphasis was put upon the distinction. In other words,
because it was considered that it falls under the prin-

GRAND TRUNK RY. v. MICHIGAN RY. COMM.
231 U. S.

467

Opinion of the Court.

ciples which related to the team tracks; and we may so
regard it.
The proposition of appellants is, as said by the District
Court, that such service and team track service "are not
in a proper sense transportation, but are essentially distinguishable therefrom"; or, to put it another way-and
one which expresses more specially the contention of appellants-they Are mere conveniences at the destination
*or initial point of the transportation and hence are terminal facilities merely and their use is not required to be
given to other railroads. The District Court did not
regard them in the latter character. After stating the
conditions which exist in Detroit and its extent, the court
said of them: "Such tracks are necessary to prevent the
congestion which would result from requiring all carload
freight, both in and out, to be delivered at the freight
depots of the respective roads, and in a very proper sense
are shipping stations." The court concluded that the
services were transportation and that the statute of the
State validly empowered the Commission "to require
local transportation by a railroad between its own shipping stations within a city, whether such plurality of
shipping stations has been voluntarily established by the
railroad, as here, or has been required by the Commission
under its lawful powers, and provided such transportation
is for such substantial distance and of such a character
as reasonably to require a railroad haul, as distinguished
fron other means of carriage." The court further said:
"It is clear that a statute validly may, and the statutes
we are considering do, authorize the employment of such
depots, side-tracks, and team tracks of a railrcad for
transporting carload freight to and from the junction of
such road with another road as a substantial part of a
continuous transportation routing, where such junction
is outside the city limits." And it was remarked that the
fact that the freight movement begins and ends within

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

the limits of a city does not take from it its character "of
an actual transportation between two termini," the other
conditions obtaining. We concur in the conclusion of
the court.
The extent of Detroit is about 22 miles, and its population about 500,000. The effect of the order is simply that
the companies shall accept freight at the designated
points for shipment to the other designated points. This,
except in an extreme sense, is not a use of the tracks and
terminals; or, rather, it is only a proper use-the use for
which the roads were constituted to afford. An area of
22 miles is attempted by appellants to be localized and
made a destination point. A city may, in a sense, be
such a terminal unit, but considering the extent of Detroit,
it is competent, we think, for the State under the conditions which this record presents to consider points within
it the beginning and destination of traffic. And to call
the service necessary to such intrastate movement of
freight a taking of terminals is misleading and puts out
of view the full signification of the question which the
record presents, which is, Is there a distinct and sufficient
movement between places which the companies can be
required to perform, or which, to put it another way,
constitutes transportation and therefore such as the compariies 'were created to perform? That cars may be delivered or received is but an incident. The statute therefore is a regulation of the business of appellants, not 'an
appropriation of their 'terminal facilities for the use and
benefit of other roads. It is therefore justified by the
doctrine of Wisconsin &c. Rd. Co. v. Jacobson, 179 U. S.
287. See also Minneapolis & St. Louis R. R. Co. v. Minnesota, 186 U. S. 257. In the Jacobson Case an order of
the Railroad Commission of the State of Minnesota was
considered which required two railroads of the State to
make track connections. The statute of the State provided that all common carriers subject to its provisions

GRAND TRUNK RY. v. MICHIGAN RY. COMM.
231 U. S.

469

Opinion of the Court.

should provide at all points of connection, crossing, or
intersection at grade, where it was necessary for interstate
commerce, ample facilities for transferring cars used in
the regular business of their respective lines of road from
other lines or tracks to those: of any other carrier whose
lines or tracks might connect with, cross or intersect their
own, and should provide facilities for the interchange of
cars, and for the receiving, forwarding and delivering of
passengers, property and cats to and from their several
lines and those of other carriers connecting therewith,
without discrimination in rates and charges. And it was
provided that one carrier should not be required to furnish its tracks, equipment or terminal facilities to another
without reasonable compensation, the cost of connections
to be proportionately divided between the carriers; and
in case of disagreement, it was to be settled by the Commission. The roads were required to establish reasonable
joint through rates at the demand of any person or of the
Commission. And it was provided that carload lots should
be transferred without unloading the cars unless it be
done without cost to the shipper or receiver and without
unreasonable delay.
Under this statute track connections were required to
be made by the Wisconsin &c. R. R. Co., with an intersecting road. In its answer before the State Railroad
Commission it alleged that to construct a connecting track
would require it to go outside of its right of way and to
condemn land for that purpose. In addition it urged
that to compel such connection would violate the commerce clause of the Constitution and the Fourteenth
Amendment. The Commission directed the conDection
to be made and its order was affirmed by the local state
court to which an appeal was taken, as provided by the
statute. This court affirmed the order, deciding that it
was a proper exercise of the power of regulation of the
business of the companies. The reasoning to sustain this

OCTOBER TERM, 1913,
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

conclusion need not be reproduced. It rested upon the
ultimate proposition that railroad companies "are organized for the public interests and to subserve primarily
the public good and convenience." And deciding this
to be the purpose of the creation of the roads and that
government had power to secure it, it was held that where
a provision for regulation is reasonable and appropriate,
when considered with regard to the interests both of the
company and of the public, the legislation is valid and
will furnish ample authority for the courts to enforce it,
even though eminent domain must be exercised or cost
incurred. This-principle, illustrated by the facts of the
case, is apposite to the regulation under review. If the
establishment of track connections by intersecting roads
with its necessary accessories of sidings and switches be
required and acceptance and delivery of loaded cars as a
convenience of transportation, surely team tracks and
sidings in Detroit and the delivery and acceptance of
loaded cars are as much so.
This view is not opposed by Louisville &c. R. R. Co. v.
Stock Yardg Co., 212 U. S. 132. There a provision of the
constitution of the State of Kentucky which required a
carrier to deliver its cars to a connecting carrier was held
invalid because it did not provide adequate protection
for their return or compensation for their use. It was
hence held that it amounted to a taking of property without due process of law. But the court was careful to say
that "in view of the well-known and necessary practice
of connecting roads, we are far from saying that a valid
law could not be passed to prevent the cost and loss of
time entailed by needless transshipment or breaking bulk,
in case of an unreasonable refusal by a carrier to interchange car$ with another for through traffic." The point
of the decision was that compensation should be provided,
and by the law. As it is expressed in the opinion, "The
law itself must save the parties' rights, and not leave them

GRAND TRUNK RY. v. MICHIGAN RY. COMM.
231 U. S.

471

Opinion of the Court.

to the discretion of the courts." This as a condition was
explained, for it was said: "We do not mean, however,
that the silence of the [State] constitution might not be
remedied by an act of the legislature or a regulation by a
duly authorized subordinate body if such legislation should
be held consistent with the State constitution by the State
court." These conditions exist in the case at bar.
There is another part of the Louisville &c. R. R. v.
Stock Yards Case which is more applicable to the contentions of the parties hereto and determine, it is urged,
against the statute under consideration and the order
of the Commission. The judgment reviewed required
the railroad company to receive at its connection with the
Southern Railway Company and to switch, transport and
deliver all live stock consigned from the Central Stock
Yards (the stock depot of the Southern Railway) to any
one at the Bourbon Stock Yards (the stock depot of the
Louisville & Nashville Railroad). This part of the judgment was based also upon the constitution of the State.
We said: "If the principle is sound, every road into Louisville, by making a physical connection with the Louisville
& Nashville, can get the use of its costly terminals and
make it do the switching necessary to that end, upon
simply paying for the service of carriage. The duty of a
carrier to accept goods tendered at its station does not
extend to the acceptance of cars offered to it at an arbitrary point near its terminus by a competing road, for
the purpose of reaching and using its terminal station.
To require such an acceptance from a railroad is to take
its property in a very effective sense, and cannot be justified, unless the railroad holds that property subject to
greater liabilities than those incident to its calling alone."
It will be observed that the beginning of traffic was at
the Central Stock Yards, the stock yards of the Southern,
and was to be hauled by that road to its connection with
the Louisville & Nashville, and by the latter from that

472

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

point to the Bourbon Stock Yards, the stock depot of the
latter railroad. The yards were the terminals of the respective roads for live stock delivery, and the case turned
upon the point that the roads were competitive, and that
the point of delivery was an arbitrary one, and that
thereby the terminal station of one company was required
to be shared with the other company.
In the case at bar a shipper is contesting for the right,
as a part of transportation. The order of the Commission
was a recognition of the right and legally so. Considering
the theater of the movements, the facilities for them are
no more terminal or switching facilities than the depots,
side tracks and main lines are terminal facilities in a less
densely populated district. A precise distinction between
facilities can neither be expressed nor enforced. Transportation is the business of railroads, and when that business may be regulated and to what extent regulated may
depend upon circumstances. No inflexible principle of
decision can be laid down. This was recognized in Wisconsin &c. R. R. Co. v. Jacobson, supra. There the court
was careful not to say that under no circumstances could
an order requiring track connections between intersecting
roads be a violation of constitutional rights. "It would
depend," it was said, "upon the facts surrounding the
cases in regard to which judgment was given. .
.
And in many cases questions of degree are the controlling
ones by which to determine the validity, or the reverse, of
legislative action." Indeed, no case could better illustrate
the value of the principle than does this case, where the
exceptional situation of Detroit as shown by the record,
the relation of the tracks in controversy to that-situation,
their length and their functions, as respects the commerce
of Detroit which in the nature of things they perform, not
merely as instruments of terminal service and delivery,
but of railway transportation in the completest sense, are
essential and controlling factors in the determination of

GRAND TRUNK RY. v. MICHIGAN RY. COMM.
231 U. S.

473

Opinion of the Court.

the question presented. To which controlling conditions
there must of course be added the fact that the railroad
itself for a long period of time had recognized the situation
and had applied the tracks to uses of transportation in
the proper sense as distinginshed from mere terminal service, a use which was only abandoned or sought to be
abandoned when authority was exerted to prevent unreasonable and to secure reasonable charges for the services.
It is contended by appellants that the statute is void
upon its face because the severity of the penalties preclude
an appeal to the courts against its provisions except at
such risks and costs that they should not be compelled
to incur, and Ex parte Yovng, 209 U. S. 123, is adduced.
But the provision for penalties is in a section by itself and
when their enforcement is attempted their constitutionality can then be determined. Minnesota Rate Cases,
230 U. S. 352; Louis. & Nash. R. R. Co. v. Garrett, ante,
page 298.
As we have determined that the tracks or terminal
facilities of appellants are not taken by the order of the
Commission, we need not consider a subdivision of ยง 7
which provides that nothing in the act shall be construed
as requiring any railroad to give the use of its tracks or
terminal facilities to another railroad engaged in like
business.
The contention of appellants that they were not incorporated for the purpose of intra-city transportation
is untenable. They were incorporated for the purpose of
transportation, and geographical limitations under the
circumstances which this record exhibits cannot prevail
against the power of the LState to regulate.

Decree affirmed.

