RADFORD v. MYERS.
231 U.S.

Argument fior Plaintiff in Error.

RADFORD v. MYERS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.

No. 251.

Submitted December 3, 1913.-Decided January 5, 1914.

Whether due effect was given by the state court to a judgment rendered in the Circuit Court of the United States presents a Federal
question which gives this court jurisdiction to review the judgment
of the state court, and to determine the question this court will
examine the judgment in the Federal court, the pleadings and the
issues and, if necessary, the opinion rendered.
Where the suit in which the former judgment is set up is not upon the
identical cause of action the estoppel operates only as to matters in
issue or points controverted and actually decided in the former suit.
Judgments become estoppels because they affect matters upon which
the parties have, been heard, but are nbt conclusive upon matters
not in question or immaterial Reynolds v. Stockton, 140 U. S. 254.
In a suit in which two of the parties successfully unite in asking the
court to award the fund to one of them against a third party claiming
it under an assignment, the judgment is not, as between the two so
uniting, res judicata so that the one to whom it is awarded is not
obligated to account therefor -to the other under an agreement so to
do. if the record does not show that such question was also at issue

and determined.
167 Michigan, 135, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the effect to be given by the
state court to a former judgment in a suit between some
of the parties rendered by ihe Circuit Court of the United
States and the extent to which such judgment was res
judicata of the matters in controversy, axe stated in the
opinion.
Mr. Thomas A. E. Weadock for plaintiff in error:
Whether a state court has given due effect to the decision of a United States court is a Federal question. Dupas.eur v. Rochereau, 21 Wall. 130; Embry v. Palmer, 107

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

231 U. S.

U. S. 3; Pendleton v. Russell, 144-U. S. 640; CentralBank v.
Stevens, 169 U. S. 432; Hancock Bank v. Farnum, 176 U. S.
640; Werlein v. New Orleans, 177 U. S. 390; National
Foundry v. Oconto Supply Co., 183 U. S. 216.
Matters in issue and decided by the judgment of a court
having jurisdiction of the parties and the subject-matter of
the suit are conclusively settled, and cannot be litigated
again between the parties to that suit or any of their
privies. 23 Cyc. 1215; Hopkins v. Lee, 6 Wheat. 109;
Cromwell v. Sac County, 94 U. S. 351; Johnson Co. v.
Wharton, 152 U. S. 252; Southern Pacific Co. v. United
States, 168 U. S. 1.
A right, question or fact once put in issue and decided is
concluded in any future action between the same parties or
their privies, whether the subsequent action is for the same
or a different cause of action. New Orleans v. Citizens'
Bank, 167 U. S. 371.
A judgment is a bar to any future action between the
same parties or their privies upon the same cause of action.
Cromwell v. Sac County, 94 U. S. 351; Dowell v. Applegate, 152 U. S. 327; Werlein v. New Orleans, 177 U. S.
390.
Or as this last rule has more recently been very aptly
stated-a judgment is conclusive as to all the media
concludendi. United States v. California Land Co., 192
U. S. 358; American Exp. Co. v. Mullins, 212 U. S. 312;
United States v. Southern Pac. Co., 223 U. S. 565; Troxell
v. D., L. & W. R. Co., 227 U. S. 434; 2 Black., Judgm.
(2d ed.), ยง 506.
Those are held to be parties who have a right to control
the proceedings, to make defense, to adduce and crossexamine witnesses, and to appeal from the decision. 2
Black., Judgm. (2d ed.), p. 808; 23 Cyc. 1240.
Matters which follow by necessary and inevitable
inference from the judgment itself 'are equally covered
by the estoppel as if they were specifically found in so

RADFORD v. MYERS.
231 U. S.

Opinion cf the Court.

many words. 23 Cyc. 1306; Nat. Foundry Co. v. Oconto
Co., 183 U. S. 216; Werlein v. New Orleans, 177 U. S. 390;
Winona Land Co. v. Minnesota, 159 U. S. 526; Nalle v.
Oyster, 230 U. S. 165.
The estoppel covers matters which were actually determined, whether technically put in issue by the pleadings or
not. 23 Cyc. 1304; 2 Black., Judgm. (2d ed.), ยง 614.
There need be no pleadings between co-parties in order
that they may, as between themselves, be bound by the
judgment, if they were essentially adversary parties, or
their respective rights were in issue. Baldwin v. Hanecy,
204 Illinois, 281, affirming 104 Ill. App. 84; Kohly v.
Fernandez, 133 App. Div. (N. Y.) 723; affirmed 201 N. Y.
561; Corcoran v. Ches. & Ohio Canal Co., 94 U. S. 741;
Louis v. Brown Township, 109 U. S. 163.
This is also the Michigan rule. Waldo v. Waldo, 52
Michigan, 91, 93; Scripps v. Sweeney, 160 Michigan, 148,
177.
The Federal decision is a bar to this litigation between
the plaintiff in error and Col. Myers as to the half of the
judgment paid by Luzerne County into the United States
court.
No counsel appeared for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

Elijah E. Myers brought this suit in the Circuit Court of
Wayne County, State of Michigan, against George W.
Radford, the plaintiff in error herein, for an accounting
and for a decree for the balance due him from a judgment
in a suit of the former in which the latter acted as one. of
his attorneys and received the amount of the judgment.
Myers having died during the pendency of the action, it
was revived in the name of his executrix, the defendant in
error. The decree of the Circuit Court in favor of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

defendant in error was affirmed by the Supreme Court of
the State of Michigan (167 Michigan, 135), and the case
comes here on error.
The record discloses that Myers had entered into a
contract with the County of Luzerne, State of Pennsylvania, to furnish the plans and specifications for a courthouse and had certain clains against the County arising
therefrom. Counsel had been employed and suit commenced, but little progress made. Myers had assigned a
one-half interest in the contract to his son, George W.
Myers. In this state of affairs the elder Myers employed
the plaintiff in error, who had theretofore been his attorney
and to whom he was indebted, to prosecute the court-house
claim To secure his indebtedness to Radford, Myers
assigned his remaining one-half interest in the claim to the
plaintiff in error. Later, April 2, 1900, George W. Myers
assigned his one-half interest to the .plaintiff in error, the
latter to account to him for the proceeds after deducting
a $1,000 attorney's fee and one-half of the costs, to which
assignment Elijah E. Myers gave his written assent; and
shortly thereafter, April 11, 1900, George W. Myers, in
consideration of $150, transferred his interest in his prior
assignment and in the assignment from his father to him
to the plaintiff in error.
The plaintiff in error engaged local counsel in Pennsylvania, who commenced Suit in the United States Circuit
Court for the Middle District of Pennsylvania, and
prosecuted the court-house claim to a successful termination (Myers v. Luzerne County, 124. Fed. Rep. 436).
Thereupon George W. Myers intervened in that suit,
setting up his right to one-half of the judgment, claiming
that his assignment to Radford had been fraudulently
obtained; and one-half of the amount of the judgment
was paid into court. Upon the petition of the plaintiff
in error to remove the money, the jurat of which was
signed by Elijah E. Myers, the court decreed that the

RADFORD v. MYERS.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

assignment was valid and awarded the fund to Radford,
and dismissed George W. Myers' claim.
Elijah E. Myers thereafter brought this suit, alleging
among other things that Radford, on April 11, 1900,
acting on his behalf, puxchased the one-half interestassigned by him to George W. Myers, and that at that
time it was distinctly understood and agreed between
the plaintiff in error and hinself that the one-half interest
so purchased, with the one-half interest assigned by him
to Radford, should be helcf as security for the payment of
all his indebtedness to Radford for loans and services and
for the payment of the $150 given by Radford to George
W. Myers and all costs in the litigation of the court-house
claim, and that, after deducting such amounts from the
judgment collected, the plaintiff in error should pay the
balance to him. The plaitiff in error contended that the
judgment in the United States Circuit Court was res
judicataas to his right to the one-half interest in the courthouse claim assigned to him by George W. Myers. He
further alleged, however, that, notwithstanding his
absolute ownership of the George W. Myers' one-half
interest, he purchased it with the distinct intention that
he would apply for the benefit of Elijah E. Myers the
balance, if he succeeded in collecting the claim, after
paying expenses and services and all Myers' indebtedness
to him. But, he alleged, he did not intend to waive his
right as absolute owner or allow Myers to dictate the
amount of expenses, services or indebtedness. The Circuit Court entered a decree for the balance due Myers.
The Supreme Court held that the assignment of April 2,
1900, was merged in the assignment of April 11, 1900, and
also held that the Federal decision in Pennsylvania had
not determined that the -trust relation between the plaintiff in error and Elijah E. Myers had terminated; as to
which holdings the plaintiff in error assigns error, upon
the failure of the Supreme Court to give due credit in those

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

respects to the judgment of the United States Circuit
Court.
From the foregoing statement it is evident that the sole
Federal question involved arises from the alleged denial
in the judgment of the Supreme Court of Michigan of due
effect to the judgment rendered in the United States Circuit
Court in Pennsylvania, which is relied upon by the plaintiff
in error as res judicata of the matters in controversy.
Whether such effect was given as the former judgment required presents a Federal question for determination. National Foundry & Pipe Works v. Oconto Water Supply Co.,
183 U. S. 216,233. To determine this issue we examine the
judgment in the former case, the pleadings filed and the issues made, and, if necessary to elucidate the matters decided, the opinion of the court which rendered the judgment.
National Foundry & Pipe Works v. Oconto Water Supply
Co., supra,234, and previous cases in this court therein cited.
As the suit in the Michigan court was not upon the
identical cause of action litigated in the United States
Circuit Court the estoppel operates only as to matters in
issue or points controverted and actually decided in that
suit. Cromwell v. Sac County, 94 U. S. 351; Southern
Pacific R. R. Co. v. United States, 168 U. S. 1, 50; Troxell
v. Del., Lack. & West. R. R., 227 U. S. 434, 440.
Applying these familiar principles, how stands the
present case? The elder Myers brought this suit upon the
theory that the amount of the judgment which had been
paid over to Radford on August 22, 1903, which the Supreme Court of Michigan found was $12,711.23, was held
in trust and to be accounted for by Radford to him because off the agreement set up in the complaint in the
state court, already referred to. The record of the proceedings in the United States Circuit Court shows that:
one-half of the money due'upon the claim of Elijah E.
Myers against Luzerne County had been paid into court
in the original suit of Myers against Luzerne County.

RADFORD v. MYERS.
231 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

Radford had filed a petition asking for the payment of the
money to him as the owner of the judgment. George W.
Myers, as respondent, filed an answer, claiming the
amount in court and attacking his assignment to Radford.
It was upon that petition and answer and testimony that
the case was heard and the following order made:
In the United States Circuit for the Middle District of
"Pennsylvania, February Term, 1903.
"No. 3.
"Elijah E. Myers
17.

"County of Luzerne.

"In the Matter of Petition of George W. Radford to
Take Money Out of Court.
"At a Session of said Court Held at Scranton, in said
District, on the 31st Day of July, One Thousand
Nine Hundred and Three.
"Present: Honorable R. W. Archbald, District Judge.
"The above matter having heretofore been heard upon
said petition, answers and proofs, and the same having
been argued by counsel for Petitioner, as well as for the
Respondent, respectively, and due consideration had
thereon, it is now ordered, adjudged and decreed that
the assignment from Respondent to Petitioner of the 11th
day of April, one thousand nine hundred is valid, and an
absolute assignment of all the interest of said Respondent
in the said contract between Elijah E. Myers and the
County Commissioners of Luzerne County of date Feb. 22,
1895, and that the fund in court be awarded to Petitioner,
George W. Radford; and that the claim of George W,
Myers, Respondent, be dismissed with costs to be taxed
against said Respondent."
A reading of this order, which is said to embody the
Federal judgment relied upon by the plaintiff in error as
res judicata of the present controversy, shows that the
only matter adjudged concerned the assignment from the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. &

respondent (Radford) to the petitioner (George W.
Myers), of date the eleventh day of April, 1900, the court
holding that it was an absolute assignment of the interest
of the respondent in the contract between Elijah E.
Myers and the County of Luzerne, awarding the fund in
court (which was one-half of that recovery) to the petitioner, and decreeing that the claim of the respondent be
dismissed and that he pay all the costs. Certainly there
is nothing in that judgment to conclude the present suit
in the state court between Elijah E. Myers and Radford.
The proceeding in the United States Circuit Court in
Pennsylvania is specifically limited to the controversy
between Radford and the respondent in that proceeding,
George W. Myers. If there could be any doubt as to the
effect of the order, the opinion of Judge Archbald found
in the record shows how the matter was regarded by him.
The opinion recites that, a verdict having been rendered
in favor of Elijah E. Myers, because of a controversy with
respect to one-half of it, leave of court had been given to
pay one-half of the judgment into court, and that the petitioner, Radford, and George W. Myers, by each of whom
ownership was asserted, by pleadings and proof had submitted the matter to that court, and that it had jurisdiction to determine to whom the fund belonged. After referring to the original contract and the various steps to
collect the money from the County of Luzerne and the
assignment of a one-half interest from the elder Myers to
his son in 1896, Judge Archbald said (124 Fed. Rep. 438:)
"Col. Myers explained to Mr. Radford that one-half
the contract had already been assigned to George, and it
was recognized that if he held on to the assignment there
would be little, if anything, coming to Col. Myers after
he had settled with Radford. But it was stated by Col.
Myers that the assignment was without consideration,
and if he succeeded, as he hoped, in getting George ,tosurrender it, then Radford was to account to him for that

RADFORD v. MYERS.
231 U.

Opinion of the Court.

interest also, after deducting for expenses and services.
The trust relation so established still continues."
The opinion then goes on to consider elaborately the
claim of George W. Myers to the one-half interest paid
into court, as against Radford, and finds that the assignment of April 11, 1900, was a valid sale from George W.
Myers to Radford and that the assignment was absolute
in form and intended by George W. Myers as a complete
disposition to Radford for $150 of the one-half, interest
deived from his father. The judge concludes his opinion
by directing that an order be drawn awarding the fund to
Radford, and dismissing the claim of George W. Myers
with costs. Thereupon the order which we have already
set forth was made.
The fact that the order was made in an intervention in
the original suit of Myers v. Luzerne County and that
Myers verified the petition filed by Radford asking to
have the fund in court paid over to the latter, did not
raise any issue between Elijah E. Myers and Radford as
to the alleged agreement that Radford should account to
Myers for the fund. And the fact that both Elijah E.
Myers and Radford were parties in the same suit did not
have the effect to submit the controversy made in the
present litigation to the decision of the United States Circuit Court. Judgments become estoppels because they
affect matters upon which the parties have been heard or
have had an opportunity to be heard, but are not conclusive upon matters not in question or immaterial. Reynolds
v. StocIdon, 140 U. S. 254, 268, 269.
It seems very clear that. there was nothing in this proceeding, in the issues made or the judgment rendered, that
in any wise concluded the right of Elijah E. Myers to
bring suit, which he subsequently prosecuted in the state
court, calling upon Radford for an accounting concerning
the proceeds of the judgment in his hands.
Judgment of the Supreme Court of Michigan affirmed.

