TRIMBLE v. SEATTLE.
231 U. S.

Syllabus.

pied the position of advantage and that rather than formal
logic determines the burden of proof. It may be that it
lay on the defendant to plead the defense. That is a question of convenience. Burnet v. Desmornes, 226 U. S.
145, 147. But the order of pleading does not always determine the burden of proof. Generally it is not considered
necessary for the payee of a promissory note to allege
a consideration in declaring upon it, but if there is conflicting evidence he has the burden of proof. Delano v.
Bartlett, 6 Cush. 364; Burnham v. Allen, 1 Gray, 496.
Judgment reversed.

TRIMBLE v. CITY OF SEATTLE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
WASHINGTON.

No. 108.

Argued December V, 1913.-Decided January 5, 1914.

The state court having declared the policy of the State as excluding
a constructive obligation to indemnify against the exercise of the
sovereign power of taxation from leases given by the State, this
court will not overthrow it.
In ordinary cases of leased property, whether the lessor or lessee shall
bear the burden of taxation is not a matter of public concern, but an
obligation not to tax property leased by the State is a restriction of
public import not lightly to be imposed.
In this case held, that the imposing of assessments for benefits on property in Seattle leased by the State of Washington is not an unconstitutional impairment of an implied covenant in the lease that the
lessor will pay assessments.
Whether landlords or tenants shall pay taxes and assessments on leased
property is a matter of private arrangement, and compelling tenants
of the State to pay them does not deny them equal protection of the
law because there may be a practice the other way in private leases.
Qucere, whether exemption from taxation would not create a favored
class and thus deny equal protection to other property owners.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

231 U. S.

When an interest in land, whether freehold or for years, passes from the
public domain into private hands, there is a natural implication that
it goes with the ordinary incidents of private property and subject
to be taxed. New York ex rel. Metropolitan Street Ry. v. Tax Commisaioners, 199 U. S. 1.
64 Washington, 102, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the validity of assessments on
lands leased by the City of Seattle to the plaintiffs in
error, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. C. W. Corliss and Mr. George McKay for plaintiffs
in error, submitted:
In leases such as these the lessor is bound to pay all
taxes, assei&ments and other charges on the leased land,
and the State, the same as a private lessor, is bound by
this rule, though in such a case as this the State's covenant takes this form: the State agrees not to impose
charges on the leased land and compel the lessee to pay
the same.
The lands of the State in the absence of the State's
consent are not subject to special assessment for local
improvements. Constitution of the State, Art. VII, § 2;
Hamilton on Special Assessments, § 281; St. Louis v.
Brown, 155 Missouri, 545; State v. Hartford,50 Connecticut, 89.
At the time the leases involved in this action were made
no consent had been given by the State to the levying of
special assessments on its land; the making of the leases
did not subject the land to special assessment. Daugherty
v. Thompson, 71 Texas, 192; Davis v. Burnett, 77 Texas, 3.
Nor was there any provision of the written or the common law splitting assessments against leased land between
lessor and lessee.
The rule of the common law is that, in the absence of a
covenant or condition to the contrary, there is an implied
covenaat in every lease that the lessor, not the lessee shall

TRIMBLE v. SEATTLE.
231 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in/Error.

pay all taxes and assessments levied on the leased land
during the term. Taylor's Landlord and Tenant (7th
ed.), p. 289, par. 341, § V1, c. 8; Woods' Landlord and
Tenant, pp. 683, 684, § 417; 18 Am. and Eng. Ency.
(2d ed.) 650; 32 Am. Digest, Century ed., pp. 578-587,
§§ 519 to 529.
There is difference in this respect between a lease and a
grant. In a grant there are no implied covenants, but the
State, as lessor, is bound by the general rule the same as a
private person. See West. & At. R. Co. v. Georgia, 14
L. R. A. 438, 455.
Under such conditions the State is regarded, pro hac vice,
as a private person itself. Murray v. Charleston, 96
U. S. 432; Hall v. Wisconsin, 103 U. S. 5; Davis v. Gray,
16 Wall. 203; Daggett v. Bonewitz, 107 Indiana, 279;
Lessieur v. Price, 12 How. 59; Gray v. Coghlen, 72 Indiana,
567.
States which issue negotiable paper incur the same responsibilities which attach to individuals or corporations
in like case. Bond Debt Cases, 12 N. Car. 200, 272;
Floyd Acceptdnces, 7 Wall. 666, and cases supra.
The statutes under which these leases were executed
show clearly that the leases were intended to be ordinary
leases, and subject to the legal incidents of such leases.
See Laws of 1897, pp. 229-242, and 253, § 50; Laws of
1899, pp. 138, 139.
The rule that the State as lessor is bound by the same
obligations as a private lessor is not qualified or overthrown by the rule that a legislative grant is construed
most strongly in favor of the State and against the grantee.
Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge, 11 Pet. 420. See
also Slidell v. Gandjean, Ill U. S. 437;. Missionary
Soc'y v. Dalles, 107 U. S. 343; Hancock v. McKinney,
7 Texas, 445; Dubuque &c. R. Co. v. Litchfield, 23 How.
88; Rice v. Minn. &c. R. R., 1 Black, 380.
The covenant of the State to pay all taxes and assess-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

231 U. S.

ments on the leased land during the term works. a practical
exemption of the leasehold from the payment of assessments on the leased land for the State cannot impose its
burden by statute, on another, nor can the State pass a
statute in direct violation of its contract. The lessor's
covenant to pay the assessments takes the form, in this
case, that the State will not impose burdens on the land
and attempt to compel the lessee to discharge them.
Met. St. R. Co. v. Tax Comm., 199 U. S. 1; Coast Line R.
Co. v. Savannah, 30 Fed. Rep. 646.

The statutes and ordinances authorizing these assessments impair the obligation of the State's lease, for the
reason that by the statute and ordinances subsequent to
the lease, the lessee is compelled, if these legislative acts
are valid, to pay and discharge a burden imposed on the
land, which burden is within the State's covenant with
its lessee.
Nothing in the other provisions of the ordinance in any
way qualifies this plain, clear legislative declaration that
even the reassessment is against the land.
As matter of law and fact, special assessments are
against the land. Chicago &c. R. Co. v. Phillips, 111
Iowa, 377; Macon v. Patty, 57 Mississippi, 378, 386;
New England M. S. Co. v. Vader, 28 Fed. Rep. 265, 274.
The statutes authorizing the levy of special assessments
against certain leases also deny to the lessees the equal
protection of the laws.
The assessments take plaintiff's property without due
process of law. Coast Land Co. v. Seattle, 52 Washington,
380, 383.
In Coast Land Co. v. Seattle, 52 Washington, 380, p. 383,
and Rabel v. Seattle, 44 Washington, 482, there are dicta
to the effect that a leasehold is subject to special assessment for a local improvement. As to future leases there
is no objection to a statute which apportions between
lessor and. ,lessee the burden of taxes and assessments on

TRIMBLE v. SEATTLE.
231 U. S.

Opinion of 1he Court.

the leased land, but to make such a statute applicable to
past leases is another thing.
.Mr. Howard A. Hanson, with whom Mr. William B.
Allison and Mr. James E. Bradford were on the brief, for

defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the

court.
This is an attempt to reverse a judgment confirming an
assessment on certain leaseholds of tide lands. The leases
were executed by the State in 1899. Subsequent statutes
of 1905 and 1907 respectively, authorized the assessment
of such leaseholds for local improvements specially benefiting them, and the inclusion of them within local improvement districts by cities of the first class. The City of
Seattle made a plank roadway, created an improvement
district, levied an assessment which failed, Coast Land Co.
v. Seattle, 52 Washington, 380, and then in due form levied
the reassessment that is in question here. The plaintiffs
in error argue that the leases contained an implied covenant for quiet enjoyment and that the subsequent laws
that authorized the assessment impair their constitutional
rights. Art. I, § 10. Amendment XIV, § 1. The Supreme
Court of Washington, admitting the general rule as to
leases, held that so far as concerns taxation, it did not
apply to leases made by the State. 64 Washington, 102.
The concession of the court was that in private contracts "in the absence of a covenant or condition to the
contrary, it is an implied covenant in every lease that
the lessor shall pay all taxes and assessments levied on the
leased land during the term." Stated in this form, the
rule appears to be a rule of policy to which special considerations may set a limit. But it might be suggested
that if the State should expressly covenant against such

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

assessments it could not impair the obligation of its contract by a subsequent law. The words used in these leases
are 'lease, demise and let,' and from Spencer's Case, 5 Co.
Rep. 16a, 17a, down to the present day these words have
been said to imply a covenant. 1 Wms. Saund. 322, n. 2.
Mostyn v. West Mostyn Coal & Iron Co., 1 C. P. D. 145,
152. Mershon v. Williams, 63 N. J. L. 398, 406. Words
express whatever meaning convention has attached to
them, and so it may be argued that the State has covenanted against this tax in express terms.
Nevertheless it is obvious that the supposed meaning
was not reached by simple interpretation. There is no
suggestion of warranty in dedi or demisi by any usage of
speech alone. The warranty was what Lord Coke called a
warranty in law, Co. Litt. 384a, an institution, not depending upon an expression of intent, not arising because the
words mean warrant, but imposed from without by the
law. In Butler's note to this page the lessor's obligation
is put as reciprocal to the tenant's obligation to pay rent,
(compare 5 Co. Rep. 17a), just as the warranty in dedi
in some cases was a consequence of tenure. One may
wonder whether in fact the warranty incident to a sale in
early law before the machinery of implied contracts was
thought of (Glanv. VII, c. 2; X, c. 15; Lex. Sal. c. 47;
1 Lning, Vertragsbruch, 103; 2 Inst. 274, 275), was not
given a scholastic turn, extended, limited and embodied in
sacramental words-whether Glanville's Donatores, grantors, did not suggest the special effect of dedi in the Statute
de Bigamis as interpreted by Lord Coke. (The Statute
itself says that the feoffor is held ratione doni proprii.
4 Ed. I., c. 6.) But whatever may be the history, it is
plain, as we have said, that the rule is not the result of
interpretation but of doctrine; and hence it is that very
commonly the rule is stated as expressing the general
operation of a lease and not as depending upon the use of a
particular word. 64 Washington, 102, 104. J. W. Perry

TRIMBLE v. SEATTLE.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Co. v. Norfolk, 220 U. S. .72, 477. Duncklee v. Webber,
151 Massachusetts, 408, 411, and cases cited in 24 Cyc.
1057; 18 Am. & Eng. Encyc. of Law, 2d ed. 650. It has
come back to what it started as being, a construction of
the law; and since, notwithstanding its age, the special
effect of demisi has not entered into speech so far as to
reach popular understanding, the rule still may be construed as extending no further than reason dictates.
Indeed warranties in law always have been dealt with on
this principle. See e. g. Brett v. Cumberland, Cro. Jac.
521, 523. Therefore we may consider the question before
us on the footing upon which it was discussed by the Supreme Court of the State.
The question is, then, whether our duty requires us to
overthrow a decision that the policy of the state law excludes a constructive obligation to indemnify against the
exercise of the sovereign power of taxation from leases by
the State. Put in this form, it is not hard to answer.
When the law creates an obligation outside of the expressed
intent of the parties, it must consider all the circumstances,
and the effect with reference to them. In ordinary cases
the whole property is taxed and which party shall bear
the burden is not a matter of public concern. But when
the State makes the lease, the supposed obligation would
be an obligation not to tax--a restriction of public import
not lightly to be imposed. Providence Bank v. Billings, 4
Pet. 514, 561. Wells v. Savannah, 181 U. S. 531,.539, 540.
St. Louis v. United Railways Co., 210 U. S. 266, 273, 274.
J. W. Perry Co. v. Norfolk, '220 U. S. 472, 480. It is urged
that to deny the State's obligation discriminates unconstitutionally against this class of lessees, since all others are
free from the burden. But that is not true. Whether
landlord or tenant shall pay a tax is a matter of private
arrangement, And the practice one way or the other has
no bearing on the matter. The argument from inequality
really works the other way. If these leaseholds are not
VOL. ccxxxi-44

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

231 U. S.

taxable, they are a favored class of property; for ordinarily
leaseholds are taxed even if they are lumped and included in the value of the fee. When an interest in land,
whether freehold or for years is severed from the public
domain and put into private hands, the natural implication is that it goes there with the ordinary incidents of
private property and therefore is subject to being taxed.
See New York ex rel. Metropolitan Street Ry. Co. v. New
York State Board of Tax Commissioners; 199 U. S. 1, 38.
The plaintiffs in error think that thus far there has been
a failure to understand their contention that these assessments are against the land, and therefore are met by the
supposed contract of the State, that the lessees should
have the land free of all charges. The court below appears
to us to have decided in direct response to that argument
that the contract of the State did not go so far, and we are
of opinion that we ought not to pronounce the decision
wrong. There was some subsidiary discussion of the
meaning and operation of the Statutes, but upon those
matters we do not go behind the judgment of the Supreme
Court of the State.
Judgment affirmed.

PIZA HERMANOS v. CALDENTEY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF PORTO RICO.
No. 134.

Submitted December 15, 1913.-Decided January 5, 1914.

Where the principle on which the amount recovered is based is admitted, this court will not go behind well warranted findings of fact
in regard to the question of amount.
Where it appears that there may have been an error in computing the

