SUPREME COURT.
Mattingly et al. v. Boyd.

thrown out of the case the evidence of the plaintiffs. The
jury might believe that the remarks were made to Patteh by
Swinney, in the presence of his daugrhters, "that he was not,
and never had been, a partner of Teller, at Fort Wayne," and
yet, from the plaintiff's evidence, find them to be untrue.
This statement is represented to have been made in 1854, some
two years after the merchandise had been purchased. It is
said this was prior to the extension of the notes; but that is
immaterial, as the partnership debt had been long before incurred. No one can manufacture evidence for himself in such
a case. The judge treated the evidence fairly by submitting
it, with the other facts, to the consideration of the jury.
The depositions which related to the declarations of Swinney, at different times and occasions, that he was not a partner
of Teller's, were properly suppressed; they were not made in
the presence of the plaintiffs, or their agent, and of which the
plaintiffs could have had notice. The oaths said to have been
made on a certain occasion, by Teller and Swinney, belong to
the same category.
The existence of the partnership at Fort Wayne seems to
have been proved to the satisfaction of the jury. The firm
was known by the name of Teller & Co. This was the admission of a partnership in their course of dealing; and if Swinney
was not the partner, it would have been easy to prove who was.
The ruling of the court in the admission of the evidence to
the jury, andthe exclusion of thatwhich was offered, was correct.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is affirmed, with costs.
J. M. MATTINGLY AND SARAH ANN HIS WIFE, APPELLANTS, v.
JOHN H.BOYD, ADMINISTRATOR OF DAVID H. BOYD,DECEASED.
By the laws of Virginia, where an absent defendant is sued, and a garnishee is found
within the State having funds of the absent debtor in his hands, the court may
either suffer the fund to remain in the hands of the garnishee, or be paid over to
tne attaching creditor, security being given in either case to refund the money
upon a final decree.
Whilst the suit is pending, therefore, the money must be considered as in the custody of the court, and not liable to be sued for by the absent debtor against his
garnishee.
Consequently, the statute of limitations does not run whilst the suit is pending;
and if an action is brought against the executor of the garnishee after the termination of the principal suit in sufficient time to clear the statute, a recovery must
be had.
The garnishee having used the money, his executor must pay interest from the time
when the attachment process was served, up to the time of the death of the garnishee-it being so claimed in the bill.
The garnishee was entitled to a reasonable sum for the trouble which he had taken.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for tht district of West Tennessee.

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

129

Mattingly et al. v. Boyd.

The bill was filed by Sarah Ann Thorp, but in the course of
proceedings her marriage with J. M. Mattingly was suggested,
and the suit thereafter conducted in the names of Mattingly
and wife.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by "Mr.Robinson, no counsel appearing for the
appellee.
ir. Robinson made the following points:
I. That if, when this suit was brought, Bylen had been alive
and a citizen of Tennessee, and a party defendant, the plaintiff
would not have been barred from-proceeding against him by the
statute of 21, Jac. 1, ch. 16, sec. 3, or by the Tennessee statute
of 1715 taken from it, or by any other statute of that State.
1. Because, by the appointment of Bylen as guardian, an express trust was created, and the statute of limitations is no bar
in the case of such express trust. (Pinkerton, &c., v. Walker
and wife, 3 Hay., 221-'2; Bryant v. Pucket, ib., 252-'3; Parson;
&c., v. Ivey, 1 Yer., 297; Armstrong v. Campbell, 3 Yer., 201;
McDonald v. McDonald, 8 ib., 148; Smart and wife v. Waterhouse, 10 ib., 104; Porter v. Porter, 3 Humph., 586.) 2. Because the statute of 1715 does not bar actions of debt generally,
but those only which are brought for arrearages for rent; (Kirkman v. Hamilton, &c., 6 Pet., 23; Tisdale v. Munroe, 3 Yer.,
222;) and even if the plaintiff came within the 5th section, she
comes wiihin the disabilities provided for by the 9th section.
. Because no statute of limitations in force in Tennessee bars
an action on a, specialty; neither such as Bylen gave when he
qualified as guardian, nor such as was taken under the decrees
of the Court of Chancery at Richmond.. (Lawrence v. Bridleman, 7 Yer., 107; Hay v. Lea, 8 ib., 89; Rice v, Alley, 1
Sneed, 52;) and even if there were any statute of Tennessee
prescribing a certain term of years within which an action must
be commenced .on such a bond as that, (pp. 36-'7,) the defend!ant does not show that such term of years has elapsed since
the plainTiff married or attained the age of twenty-one years..
1H. That supposing the plaintiff has a right to maintain a suit
against Bylen or his representative'for the money mentioned
In said bond and the interest thereof, the right of action of
Bylen against David H. Boyd, for the money received :by the
latter as agent, would not be barred by the time-'which has
elapsed since Boyd received the money. For whether the
attachment was riaht or wrong, Boyd claimed to hold and was
allowed to hold tle money pending the attachment, and is
bound to answer for it when the attachment was terminated.
vOL. xx:

9

-

SUPREME COURT.
Mattngly et al. v. Boyd.

III. That seeing, if the plaintiff was to have a decree against
Bylen, the latter would be entitled to a decree against Boyd,
the proper course of equity is to- decree immediately for the
plaintiffs, against the administrator of Boyd-the party ultimately responsible. (Garnett, &c., v. Macon, &c., 6 Call, 349,
and other cases cited in 2 Rob. Pract., 395-'8, old ed.)
IV. That the decree should be for $1,112.82, with interest
from the 26th of October, 1826, (p. 32,) and the costs of this suit.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
Spencer Roane devised to his grand-daughter, Sarah Ann
Roane, one thousand dollars. She was a minor, residing in
Kentucky; and Joseph N. Bylen, her stepfather, was her guardian. Bylen sued Roane's executors for the money, and recovered it as guardian. David H. Boyd acted as the agent of Bylen,
and received the money in Virginia, and held it as agent. Fayette Roane, the father of Sarah Ann, owed William H. Roane,
of Richmond, Virginia, a thousand dollars. Bylen was Fayette
Roane's executor; and William I. sued out a subpcena and filed
an attaching creditor's bill in the Superior Court of Chancery at
Lynchburg, against Bylen and others, to which David H. Boyd
was a party defendant. The main purpose of the bill was, to
restrain the -money held by Boyd for Bylen as guardian, in
Boyd's hands, until Roane could obtain a decree against Bylen,
and enforce payment from Boyd as the debtor of-Bylen.
Roane's restraining order was sued out and executed on
Boyd the 10th day- of October, 1827.
May 4, 1829, Boyd- answered the bill, and admitted that he
had received $1,112 as agent of Bylen, guardian of Sarah Ann
Roane, on a power of attorney,-"which money he intended to
pay over to Bylen as guardian, until inhibited by the process
of the court."
The suit lingered on the rules at Lynchburg till July 4, 1853,
the restraining order being in full force from 1827 to 1853. In
the mean time, Boyd had removed to Tennessee, and died there
on the 25th of August, 1851; and about two months thereafter,
John H. Boyd, the defendant to this suit, administered on David H. Boyd's estate; and on the 5th of September, 1853, this
suit was brought. The main defence set up is, the acts of limitation barring actions in Tennessee. The suit was brought
within two years after John H. Boyd administered, and therefore the act barring suits against administrators does not apply;
and the only question is, whether the suit is barred by the
general law barring actions 'founded on simple contracts, if
not sued for within three years next after the cause of action
accrued.

-DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

181

.HattinglyYetal. v. .oy .

The settled law of Tennessee is, that where an agent obtains
money of his*principal, and converts it to his use, and is not
sued until three years elapse, the remedy by assumpsit is barred.
(McGinnis v. Jack and Cocke, Martin and Yer. R., 861; Hawkins v. Walker, 4 Yer. R.)
It is also settled in Tennessee, that where the statute commences to run, it runs on, unless there is a new promise within
three years next- before suit is brought; and an acknowledgment by the defendant of an actual subsisting debt due to the
plaintiff within the three years is deemed equivalent to new
promise, as the law raises a promise to pay on the acknowledgment. (Russell, adm'r, v. Gass, Martin and Yerger's R., 270.)
This acknowledgment was made by Boyd,, in 1829, by his answer, filed in the Superior Chancery Court at Lynchburg.
Had Bylen sued him at law, and the act of limitations been
pleaded, the statement in Boyd's answer would have been a
good replication.
The question then comes to this-whether Bylen, as guardian, or Sarah Ann Roane, after she became of age, .had cause
of action against Boyd whilst the suit at Lynchburg was pending? The act of 1819 (Virginia Revised Code, 474) in substance provides, that where a suit in chancery is prosecuted
against a defendant who is out of the State, and against a
defendant within the State, who has in his hands effects of or
is indebted to the absent defendant, the court may make an
order, and require surety, if it shall appear necessary, to restrain
the defendant within the State from paying the debt by him
owing to the absent defendant; or the court may order .such
debt to be paid to the attaching creditor, upon his giving sufficient security for the return of the money to such person, and
in such manner as the court shall afterwards direct. The act also provides how,°the absent defendant shall be
notified by publication; and if he does not appear, the court
may hear the plaintiff's ptoofs of the justice of his demand,
and may proceed to take the bill for confessed, and to decree
thereon as to the court may seem proper, and enforce due
execution of the decree.
The court did not require security from Boyd to have: the
money forthcoming according to a decree, that might be subsequently made; but set the cause down for hearing against:
him, leaving the money in his hands. ,:

-,-

....
....

.

j '

Bylen never answered, but urged Boyd by lettersto employ
counsel and defend the suit, and to send him the nioney if the
bill was dismissed; and thus the matter stood, until 1853, 7hen,
the suit abated by William H. Roane's death-.
As, by the Virginia attachment law, the court might require.

SEPREME COURT.
Hattingly et aL v. Boyd.

surety of the garnishee, to restrain him from paying the money in
his hands to his creditor, pending the attachment suit, or order
it to be paid the attaching creditor, on his giving surety to
refund if the suit was decided against him, it follows that the
fund was in custody of the law, and that the garnishee could
not be sued a second time; so that, in this case, if Bylen, or
Miss Roane, had sued Boyd pending the attachment suit, he
or she could have pleaded in abatement the former suit pending, to the same effect as if he had been twice sued by Bylen.
This is plainly inferrible from the face of the statute; and the
position is supported by adjudged cases both in England and
in this country. (Brooke v. Smith, 1 Salk., 280; Embree and
Collins v. Ianna, 5 John. R., 101; Irvine v. The Lumberman's
Bank, 2 Watts and Sargent, 208.) The same rule was recognised by this court in the case of Wallace v. McConnell, 13
Peters, 151. Mr. Drake, in his well-considered treatise on attachment, (section 720,) has stated the practice in different
States, to which book we refer.
We are opinion that Boyd's holding was not adverse
until the suit in Virginia was ended; and, secondly, that
neither Bylen, as guardian, nor Sarah Ann Roane, after she.
became of age, had cause of action against Boyd for retaining
the money, whilst the suit was pending, and therefore the act
of limitations is no defence.
The next question is, whether Boyd is bound to pay interest
on the fund ? As a general rule, a garnishee is not bound to
pay interest, because he is liable to be called on- to pay at.all
times. (11 Sargent and Rawle, 188; Drake Pr., 725; 1 Washington Va. R., 149.)
B ut here the bill alleges that he used the money as his own;
and the proof is, that in the latter part of November, 1826, he
received the money as agent of Bylen, and immediately loaned
it to George Boyd, his father, who was in failing circumstances, and shortly thereafter became insolvent. As this was
an appropriation of the money, and a manifest breach of trust,
David H. Boyd was bound to account with interest.
The bill only claims interest from the time the attachment
process was served, up to the time of David H. Boyd's death;
we therefore order that interest be calculated from the 23d of
October, 1827, to the 25th of August, 1851, these being the
dates from and to which interest is claimed.
In June, 1826, David A1. Boyd forwarded an account to
Bylen for the money he had expended for the latter, in prosecuting the suit, at Richmond, against Spencer Roane's executors, including one hundred dollars for his trouble in attending
to the business.

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

133

tIfcicken v. Perin.

The amount claimed is $216.39. .We think this charge is
reasonable, anid order it to be deducted from the principal sum
sued for, which is $1,112.33, and leaves $896.44 due of principal, on which interest after the rate of six per cent. per annum
will be calculated, from 23d day of October, 1827, up to the
25th day of August, 1851, to be levied of the goods and chattels of the estate of David H. Boyd in the hands of his administrator, John H. Boyd, the respondent, to be administered.
It is further ordered, that the decree of the Circuit Court
for the district of -WestTennessee, dismissing the bill, be reversed, and that the cause be remanded to said court, for further
proceedings to be had therein.

.CIItLES M OICKEN, APPELLANT, V. FERAKLN PEIIN.
Where this court affirmed a decree of a Circuit Court, which was, that a conveyance of property should be executed upon the payment of a sum of money; and
the Circuit Court proceeded to carry out its decree by issuing an attachment
against the party who refused to execute such conveyance, an appeal will not
lie to this court from the order directing the attachment.
The appeal must be dismissed, with costs, on motion.

THIs was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United.

States for the eastern district of Louisiana.
It was before this court at a preceding term, i-d is reported
in 18th Howard, 508.
When the mandate of this court went down, the money
therein mentioned 'was tendered to Mc~licken, who refused: to
accept it; whereupon, an order was obtained to attach him for
contempt, in refusing to make the conveyance required by the
decree. Whilst in custody of the marshal, he executed the
conveyance, and at the same time took an appeal fiom the
order to attach.
2r. Taylor moved to dismiss the appeal, which, motion was
opposed by Mr. Gillet...
Mr. Taylor referred to the cases of Watson v. Thomas, Littell's Select Cases, (6 Lit.,) 248; Carr'v. Hoxie, 13 Pet., 462;
and Lovelace v. Taylor, 6 Rob. R., 93.
Mr. Justice McLEANT delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from the Circuit Court for the eastern district of Louisiana.
The defendant, Perin, in the year 1848, being desirous of
purchasing the interests the Fletchers had in a plantation. with

