DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

221

McGavock v. Woodlief.

Co. and Broadwell, to appear in this court upon the return of
the writ of error.
It will be seen, from this statement, that Payne & Harrison
were not parties to the judgment in the suit of Niles & Co. v.
Knox. The only judgment in the Circuit Court to which they
were parties, was the judgment dismissing their petition of intervention; and Knox was not made a party defendant in that
proceeding, nor was he a party to that judgment. The order
of the court to make Broadwell, his syndic, a party, was passed
after this judgment was rendered.
Writs of error to remove the judgment of an inferior tribunal to this court are, under the acts of Congress, governed by
the principles and usages of the commou law. And it is very
well settled in all common-law courts, that no one can bring
up, as plaintiff in a writ of error, the judgment of an inferior
court to a superior one, unless he was a party to the judgment
in the court below; nor can any one be made a detndant in
the writ of error, who was not a party to the judgment in the
inferior court. 'ayne & Harrison, therefore, have, no right t6
sue out a writ of error upon the judgment in the suit between
Tiles & Co. and Knox, to which they were not a party, nor can
they make Knox or his representative a defendant in a writ of
error brought upon the judgment on the petition of intervention, to which neither Knox nor Broadwell, his syndic, was a
party.
This writ of error attempts to do both, and is therefore not
warranted by law. It cannot bring the judgments referred to,
or either of them, before this court, and must therefore be dismissed, with costs.

JOHN McG-vOCK, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. PETER W. WOODLIEF.
A broker who negotiates the sale of an estate is not entitled to his commission
until he finds a purchaser in a situation and ready and willing to complete the
purchase on the terms agreed upon between the broker and the vendor.
Where the judge files the statement of-facts after the trial, nuncyro tune, it is rqasonable to presume that he had been requested to do so at the trial.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the eastern district of Louisiana.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

It was argued by Mr. Benjamin for the plaintiff ia errorand Mr. Taylor for the defendant.

222

SUPREME COURT.
A Gavock v. Woodlief.

.Mr.Benjamin for plaintiff in error:
It is difficult to institute an argument on a proposition which
appears so plain as that the plaintiff's case was not made out
on the facts stated to be proven; but as the judge below, even
after argument for new trial, persisted in the opinion that
plaintiff had proven his case, we will analyze the allegata and
probata.
The plaintiff's petition was clearly demurrable; but as he
was allowed to make all the proof he could, the case will be
argued on the merits alone. It was necessary for plaintiff to
prove1st. That he was employed as a broker by MeGavock, to
effect a sale of his plantation.
2d. That he did find a purchaser willing and able to buy the
plantation at the price and terms fixed by McGavock, to wit,
for $130,000, payable $20,000 in cash, and the remainder in
five equal annual instalments, without interest.
3d. That the sale was actually made and the price received;
or, at all events,
4th. That it was his employer's own fault that the sale was
not effected; and that the employer's refusal to carry out the
sale agreed on resulted from (to use the language
of the judge)
Z
whim, or caprice, or insufficient reasons.
1st. The statement of facts finds the first fact essential to
plaintiff's recovery.
2d. On the second point, the evidence directly contradicts
the plaintiff's case.
According to the statement of facts, the purchaser to whom
MeGavock agreed to sell was one George M. Long; the price
was to be $120,000 for the plantation, and $13,500 for the
growing crop, to be paid as the crop was sold. This price was
to be paid, says the statement, mainly in the notes of a Dr.
Bard, which notes belonged to Mrs. Long.
Was Long a purchaser able and willing to make the purchase ?
The statement says "that he owned no property; or, if he
did, that it stood in the name of his wife, and that he had little
credit. His credit was not good."
The statement also says of the notes, which were the main
portion of the price, "that they were the property of Mrs.
Long, the wife of George M. Long; that although she at first
refused to permit the notes to be used in the purchase of the
plantation and slaves from McGavock, she afterwards consented that they should be so used, on condition that the sale of
the plantation and slaves should be made to her."
Can anything be clearer, then, than the fact that the pur-

223'

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.
NcGavock v. Woodlief.

chaser procured by the broker was unable to buy, because he
could not pay the price agreed on?
The petition contains no allegation of a sale to Mrs. Long.
The statement of facts shows no consent of MeGavock to sell
to her. It shows not even a proposition to McGavock to sell
to Mrs. Long; nothing but a power of attorney from her to
the broker, to buy the property for her, with her husband's consent. It does not appear that her husband ever agreed to this,
nor that her offer was ever communicated to MeGavock.
The only purchaser procured by the broker being shown to
be unable to comply- with his bargain, on what conceivable'
ground could. MeGavock be compelled to pay a biokerage
commission?
But the statement shows that Mrs. Long herself was unable
to comply with the terms agreed on. It says, "that it was in
the contemplation of purchaser and seller that the notes of
Dr. Bard should be substituted in the place of those which
had been given by MeGavock to Thibodaux, when MdGavock
purchased it from Thibodaux."
Here, then, MeGavock stipulated that his own notes should
be taken up and returned to him, by substituting Bard's notes.
But some of McGavock's notes, amounting to at least $20,000,
were in the hands of Cammack, Squires, & West, and the statement says "that application was made by the plaintiff; and by
.Long, to the said firm, to substitute the notes, &c., but that no
satisfactory answer was received."
How is this difficulty to be obviated? Here is a positive condition of the sale, an important condition, which the purchaser
finds it impossible to comply with. Was MeGavock bound to
sell, and leave his own notes for $20,000 outstanding? It is
true, that in the statement of facts the judge says that he" sees
no reason to doubt that Long and wffe would have been prepared to comply with the terms of the contract, * * *
even if they were required to pay cash the amount for which
Cammaek, Squires, &West, were endorsers, by having discounted
a porlion of Dr. Bard's obliqations."
It is obvious that this last-quotation contains no statement
of any fact, but a mere inference of the judge from the other
facts proven; in other words, it is a reason given for his judgment.
But this passage is curious, as exhibiting how far the court
had travelled away from the true issue, which was simply this:
"Was George M. Long, who made the purchase, able -to comply with the condition of substituting Bard's notes for McGavock's?". The statement admits that he did..not own Bard's
notes, and could not get them for his own purchase; and that
-

224

SUPREME COURT.
AcGavock v. Woodlief.

if he did, the holder of McGavock's notes would not make the
exchange.
Thereupon the court decides that McGavock was bound to
sell to Mrs.Long, or to -Long and wife, and infers, in opposition
to the direct fact that the substitution of notes was impracticable, that "Long and wife would have been prepared to pay cash
by discounting Bard's notes."
Surely this is making a bargain for MeGavock, not executing
one made by him.
3d. It is admitted that no sale was actually made, and no
brokerage due therefor for actually effecting a sale.
4th. If it were admitted that brokerage could ever be recovered without an actual sale effected, (a point which it is
unnecessary to discuss under a state of facts like that above
disclosed,) it is perfectly clear that the recovery could only be
had in a case where the party employing the broker had,
through his own fault and caprice, prevented the accomplishment of the condition on which the broker's right to commission depends, to wit, the effecting of a sale. As nothing of
this kind appears in this case, it is our confident conclusion
that the plaintiff in error has been erroneously condemned in
the lower court. (Broad v. Thomas, 7 Bingh., 99; Read v.
flann, 10 Barn. and Cress.)
Mr. Taylor's points were the following:
1st. There is nothing in the record which can enable the
court to revise the judgment of the court below. (Lathrop v.
Judson, 19 How., 69.)
2d. The plaintiff in error employed the defendant in error,
in his capacity of broker, to find a purchaser and to negotiate a
sale of his (the plaintiff in error's) plantation, &c., for him.
The defendant in error found a purchaser, brought the parties
together, and they came to a distinct understanding and agreement to make and complete a sale of the property, and the
sale was not completed only through the fault of the plaintiff
inerror.
3d. The right of the defendant in error to the usual commission of brokers in such cases became perfect when the
minds of the parties to the negotiation were brought to a concurrence, and thus the consideration and terms of the contract
of sale with respect to the property to be sold were agreed
upon. (C. C. of La., Art. 1797, 1765; Story on Agency, see.
329; Hammond v. Holliday, 1 Cur. and Payne, 887.)
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

225

McGavock v. Woodief.

States, held by the district judge for the eastern district of
Louisiana.
The suit was brought by Woodlief, a broker in the city of
New Orleans, against the defendant, to recover the sum of two
thousand. six hundred dollars, as a commission for negotiating
the sale of a plantation and slaves.
The petition sets out that on the 16th November, 1855, the
defendant employed the plaintiff to procure a purchaser for his
sugar plantation, situate on the Bayou La Fourche, in the
State of Louisiana, and seventy slaves, for the price of $180,000,
of which $20,000 was to be paid in cash, and the remainder in
five equal annual instalments, with interest. That th ! laintiff soon thereafter found a purchaser, namely, George M.
Long, of the parish of Carroll, State of Louisiana; and on the
20th November, said Long, with the plaintiff, weut to the residence of the defendant, examined the property, and concluded
an agreement of purchase according to the terms stated.
The facts set forth in the petition were denied by the defendant, and the cause went down for trial before the court, a jury
having been waived, when a judgment was rendered for the
plaintiff, for the amount claimed.
The case comes up on a writ of error to this court upon a
statement of facts by the judge. The issue was tried in the
court below, and the judgment rendered on the 24th June,
1856. A motion for a new trial-was heard, and denied on the
9th of October following. The writ of error was then prayed
for and allowed, and the statement of facts drawn up and ordered to be filed, nune pro tune, as of the 24th June, 1856, the
day the cause was first tried before the court.
An objection was made on the argument, that this statement
of facts could not be noticed, it having been made up after the
term in which the cause was tried, and as it did not appear
that the court was requested to draw it up at the time of the trial.
We are of opinion that, as the judge has drawn up and filed the
statement as of the day of the trial, it is but reasonable to presume that he had been so requbsted at the trial by the counsel
for the defendant.. We agree that the request must be made
at this time, in order to enable the court to notice it in error;
but the statement may be drawn up afterwards, as shall be
convenient for the judge. This is the settled practice in courts
where the proceedings are accordina to the common law. The
bill of exceptions may be settled after, though the exceptions
muft be taken atthe trial. As to the merits, we are of opinion- that there was error in
the decision of the eourt below.
The terms of t& sale, as- given by the vendor to thle plain.
VOL..XX: - 15

226

SUPREME COURT.
NeGavock v. Woodlief.

tiff, the broker, were simple and specific-the price $130,000,
$20,000 in cash, and the remainder in five equal annual payments. ' Long, the purchaser, agreed to these terms, as averrbd
in the petition, and not questioned in the case; and if he had
offered and was in a condition to consummate the agreement
according to its terms, no doubt the commission would have
been earned, and the recovery below right. But when the
parties proceeded to the execution of the contract of sale, a
change was proposed by Long, the vendee, which, for aught
that appears upon the facts or in the finding of the judge, was
never assented to by the defendant. The change was substantial, and called for a new and distinct agreement before the
vendor could be bound. The wife of Long was interposed as
the purchaser, the husband being a person of no means -r
credit. Her means, it appears, consisted of notes given to her
by Dr. Bard, for a plantation which she had sold to him; and
the greater part of the statement of facts is made up of various
negotiations with third parties, by the plaintiff and Long, with
a view to turn these notes for the benefit of the defendant, so
as to apply them towards payment of the $130,000, the purchasemoney. This was to be brought about by substituting them
in the place of notes which the defendant had given to one
Thibodaux, from whom he had purchased his plantation.
Thibodaux was willing to receive the notes of Dr. Bard, in
lieu of the defendant's, if the substitution could be legally
made, and he could retain a first mortgage on the plantation
and slaves as a security. Whether this security could be given,
or was agreed to be given, nowhere appears. Twenty thousand dollars of these notes of the defendant were, in some
way, under the control of a commercial firm, who were endorsers upon them. A difficulty existed in making a substitution for these. No satisfactory arrangement was made in
respect to them, and none at all as concerned the sum of
$20,000, which was to be paid to the defendant in cash.
The evidence in the case therefore neither shows that the
defendant agreed to this change of the conditions of sale, nor,
if he had, that they could or would have been carried into
effect by the third persons concerned, nor any evidence of the
condition to pay the $20,000 down.
The terms of sale, as we have stated, were very distinct and
easily understood; but the terms and conditions of the proposed fulfilment are complicated, confused, involved in doubt
and uncertainty, and the fulfilment itself, even upofi these
conditions, rather conjectural than: otherwise.
The learned judge obsefves, in his statement,-"that the-court
see no reason to doubt that Long and wife would have been

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.
Covington .Drawbri'dge Com.any v. Shepherd et al.

prepared to comply with the terms of the contract, by meeting
the wishes of MeGavock, the defendant, in regard to the notes
giVen by him when he purchased the plantation from Thibodaux, even if they were required to pay cash for the amount
for which the commercial firm were endorsers, by having discounted a portion of Dr. Bard's obligations." This is an
opin.ion of what might have been effected towards the consummation of the contract of sale, rather than what had been
done preparatory, and with a view to the fulfilment, which
would have been much more pertinent to the issue in the case.
As the terms of sale were explicit, the proposal to fulfil should
have been equally so. Nothing should have been left to conjecture or speculation. There should have been as much certainty on the one side of the contract as upon the other. Certainty in the offer to fulfil is as important to the vendor as in
the terms of the sale to the vendee, and equally necessary before the vendor can be put in fault. The broker must conplete the sale; that is, he must find a purchaser in a situation
and ready and willing to complete the purchase ow the terms
agreed on, before he is entitled to his commissions. Then he
will be entitled to them, though the vendor refuse to go on
and perfect tLe sale.
Judgment of the court below reversed.

THE COVINGTON DRAWBRIDGE COMPANY, PLAINTIFFS IN

ERROR,

v. ALEXANDER 0. SHEPHERD, ELI3AH F. GILLAN, JAMES DAVIDSON,

SAMUEL

MCCLURE,

SAMUEL PETERS, ,AND

GEORGE

WILLARD.
An averment, in pleading, that the Covington Drawbridge Company were citizens
of Indiana was sufficient to give jurisdiction to the Circuit Court of the United

States, because the company was incorporated by a public statute of the State
which the court was bound judicially to notice.

The former decisions of this court upon this subject examined.

THIs case was brought up, by writ-of error; from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of Indiana.
Shepherd and the other defendants in error, styling themselves citizens of Ohio, brought an action of trespass on the
case against the Covington Drawbridge Company, citizens of
the State of Indiana, for injuries sustained by a steamboat belonging to the plaintiffs, in consequence of negligence in at.
tending to the draw. The defendants pleaded not guilty, and
the case was tried by a jury, who found a verdict for the plaintiffs, awarding $6,084.93. There were no prayers to. the

