522

SUPREME COURT.
Moreland v. Page.

be performed, and a court of equity is the proper tribunal to
enforce his right.
On the whole case, we are of the opinion that the Supreme
Court of the Territory of Minnesota erred in the order and
decree made in this cause. The decree, therefore, of that court
is reversed, and the cause remanded for further proceedings,
with directions to enter a decree affirming the decree of the
District Court, with costs.

DAVID MORELAND, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JEREMIAH PAGE.
This court has not jurisdiction, under the twenty-fifth section of the judiciary act,
to review the judgment of a State court, -where the question involved merely
related to the proper boundary between two tracts of land, although the owners
of both had valid grants from the United States.

THis case was brought up from the Supreme Court of the
State of Iowa, by a writ of error issued under the twenty-fifth
section of the judiciary act.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Badger and Mr.Carlislefor the plaintiff
in error, and by Mr.Bradl for the defendant.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
In a court which is not bound by law to ignore all species
of actions, and use only the generic name, this would be called
an action of ejectment. Plaintiff's statement alleges that "he
is owner of certain adjoining quarter sections of land, and that
the northern boundary thereof is a line surveyed by Joel Baily,
as per diagram annexed, and that plaintiff claims the line A B
to be the true line, while defendant claims that the line C D is
the proper line between them. The defendant, by his plea or
answer, denies that A B is the true line, and avers that C D is.
On this issue the parties went to trial without a jury, and the
court decided in favor of plaintiff. But, on appeal to the Supreme Court of Iowa, the judgment below was reversed, and
judgment entered for defendant, establishing the line C D as
the true line between the respective patents, according to a survey made by Edward James, "a copy of a plat of which is on
file in the case, from the original deposited in the office of the
surveyor general."
We have searched this record in vain to discover any authority for this court to assert its jurisdiction to review the judgment of the State court under the power granted by the twenty-

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.
.HcFaul v. Ramqey.

fifth section of the judiciary act. The -record does not show
that it draws in question any treaty, statute, or authority, exercised under the United States; or the validity of any State
statute, for repugnancy to the-Constitution of the United States;
or the construction of any clause of the Constitution; or of a
treaty or statute commission held under the United States. It
is a mere questioirof boundary between two neighbors, both
admitted to have valid, rants from the United States. It is a
question of fact, depending on monuments to be found on the
ground, documents in the land office, or the opinion of experts
or surveyors appointed by the court or the parties. If the
accident to the controversy that both parties claim title under
the United States should be considered as sufficient to bring it
within our jurisdiction, then every controversy involving the
title to such lands, whether it involve the inheritance, partition, devise, or sale of it, may, with equal propriety, be subject
to the examination of this court in all time to come.
This question is not new; -it was decided in the case of McDonough v. Millaudon, 3 How., 693, where this court refused
to entertain jurisdiction to review the judgment of a State
court, ascertaining the boundaries between complete grants
under the French Government, as it did not call in question
either the construction or the validity of the treaty, or the title
to the land held'under it. (See also Kennedy v. Hunt, 7 How.,
593.)
It is therefore ordered that this case be dismissed for want
of jurisdiction.
ENEAS

McFAUL, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JAMES C. RAMISEY.

Where the only bills of exception were to the refusal of the court to grant a continuance and change the venue, the judgment of the court below must be affirmed,
as these matters are not the subjects of review by this court.
The laws -of Iowa permitting a demurrer only when the petition by a fair and natural construction does not show a substantial cause of action, a demurrer to part
of the petition in this case was properly overruled.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the District
Court of the United States for the district'of Iowa.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. _Reverdy Tohnson and rf. _Reverdy Johnson, jun., for the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. Norris for the
defendant.
Mr. Justice GRIER deliv'red the opinion of the court.
Ramsey, the plaintiff below, instituted this suit in the Dis-

