DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

55

Brown v. Shannon et al.

The only question arising on the master's Teport in this case,
and the decree, in pursuance thereof; is, that the rents and
profits should not have been charged prior to the decree in
bankruptcy. The answer to this objection is, that no such
exception was taken to the report, and cannot, therefore, be
noticed here. The case, in all its essential parts, falls within
the views presented in the preceding one of this plaintiff
against Robert Hudgins and others, and must abide the like
result.
The decree of the court below is affirmed.

ISAAc

BIowN, APPELLANT, V. JOSEPH P. SHANNON ET AL.

Where a bill is filed to enforce the specific execution of a contract in relation to
the use of a patent right,.this court has no appellate jurisdiction, unless the matter in'controversy exceeds two thousand dollars.
The jurisdiction, where the bill is founded upon a contract, differs materially from
the jurisdiction on a bill to prevent the infringement of the monopoly of the
patentee, or of these claiming under him by legal assignments, and to protect them
in their rights to the exclusive use.
"
-is awardedis no evidence of the
The penalty of the bond taken, when an injn-"
amount or value in dispute.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of Maryland.
The -case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr.Schley for the appellant, and submitted
on a printed argument by Mr. Latrobe and .Ir. Gwinn for
the defendants.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the- opinion of the
court.

I This is an appeal from the decree of the Circuit Court for
the district of Maryland. . "
The bill was filed by Joseph P. Shannon & Company,
Gelston & Matthews, Lapouraille & Maughlin, and Griffiss &
Cate, who composed four different partnership firms in the
city of Baltimore, separately engaged in the business of
planing, who all joined in the bill of complaint against Brown,
the appellant, praying that he might be enjoined from the use
of. certain planing machines, mentioned in the bill, in the city
of Baltimore. Upon the hearing, a perpetual injunction was
granted accordingly, and from that decree this appeal was
taken.
From the manner in which the bill is framed, there i. some.

SUPREME COURT.
Brown v. Shannon et al.

difficulty in determining whether the complainants are seeking the aid of this court to prohibit the infringement of a
patent right assigned to them, or to enforce the specific execution of two contracts with the appellant, exhibited with the
bill; for the right claimed under the patent, and the right
claimed under the contracts, are so min-led together in the
statements and allegations of the complainants as to leave
some doubt upon that point. And the first question, therefore, for this court to determine, is, upon which of these two
orounds does the bill seek for relief? The jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court in the one case is materially different from its
jurisdiction in the other; and, while-this court can exercise no
appellate power in a case arising under contracts like those
exhibited, unless the amount or value of the matter in contro
versy exceeds two thousand dollars, it may yet lawfully exercise
its appellate jurisdiction when a far less amount is in dispute,
if the party is proce'eding either at law or in equity for the
infringement of a patent right to which he claims to be entitled. Upon looking, however, carefully into the bill, we
think it must be regarded and treated as a proceeding to
enforce the specific execution of the contracts referred to, and
not as one to protect the complainants in the exclusive enjoyment of a patent right. It states that three of the partnership
firms named as complainants-that is to say, Joseph P. Shannon & Company, Gelston & Matthews, and Lapouraille &
Maughlin--were, by regular assignments, entitled to the exclusive use of Woodworth's planing machine in the State of
Maryland, east of the Blue Ridge. That the appellant had
used these machines in the city of Baltimore, without any
right derived from the patentee, and that, in consequence of
this infringement of their rights, various suits and controversies had taken place between them and Brown, who
claimed the right to use the machines in question, as the
assignee of a patent of Emmons. The bill then proceeds to
state that, in order to put an end to these controversies and
suits, these appellees, and the appellant, entered into -the contract of the 19th of January, 1853, which is exhibited with
the bill.
By this contracf'the portion of the appellees of which we
are now speaking, and the appellant, agreed that each of the
said three partnership firms and the appellant should have
the right to use the Woodworth patent at one establishment,
anywhere within the territorial limits above mentioned, not
exceeding five machines at such establishment; and that each
of the said parties should also have the right to use Emmons's
patent.

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.
Brown v. Shannon et al.

There are other stipulations in this agreement which it is
not material to state for the purposes of this opinion.
The bill further states that :Brown afterwards, on the 15th
of June, 1853, assigned to Griffiss & Cate, the other complainant, all his right to use the Woodworth patent, which
right he had derived from the contract before mentioned; and
also the right to use the Emmons patent, the right to which he
- had derived from the administrator of Emmons. This contract
states that the assignment was made in consideration of fifteen
hundred dollars, paid the appellant by Griffiss & Cate. And
the complainants allege that, after this assignment, Brown continued toluse the said five machines in his establishment in
Baltimore, although he had no right to do so, as they were all
Woodworth's planing machines; and that he is not only a
wrong-doer in. using a patented invention without a license,
and as such liable to be restrained by a court of equity, but
that such use is a fraud upon the parties to each of the two
contracts into which he had entered, as above stated. That
the object of the contract of January 19, 1853, was to restrain
the use of the Woodworth machine and the Emmons machine,
so far as that right was to be used, to four establishments in
the city of Baltimore, with the limited number of machines in
each; and that the use of them by Brown, after he had substituted Griffiss & Cate in his place, was a fraud upon this
contract, from the binding operation of which he could not
withdraw himself, and a fraud also upon his contract with
Griffiss & Cate. And the gravamen of the bill, and the
ground upon which relief is sought, is summed up in the
paragraph immediately preceding the prayer for relief, in the
following words:
"And yoir orators are further advised, that the misconduct
of the said Brown in the premises is a fraud upon the parties
to the agreement of the 19th of January, 1853, as well as
upon the parties to the agreement of the 15th of June, 1853,
which it is the peculiar province of a court, of equity to restrain."
It is to prevent the fraudulent violation of these contracts,
therefore, that the complainants seek the aid of the court, and
ask for an injunction; and it being a proceeding founded on a
contract between the parties, this court has no appellate power,
unless the matter in controversy is of the value of more than
two thousand dollars. Now, the matter in controversy is the
right .of the appellants to use these five machines while the
Woodworth patent .continued--:-that is, until the 29th of December, 1856.
But it appears by the record that Brown sold this right to

58

SUPREME COURT.
Bronm v. Shannon et al.

Griffiss
Cate forit$1,500. He admits, in his answer, that he
sold
and&a3signed
for that sum; nor does he suggest that it
was worth more. The establishment of Griffiss & Cate, like
that of the appellant, was in the city of Baltimore. And if
$1,500 was the just value of the right in controversy on the
15th of Tune, 1853, there is no reason for supposing that it
was more on the 10th of October in that year, when this bill
was filed, or at any time since; on the contrary, the period for
the duration of the right under the contract was daily diminishing as the termination of the patent was approaching, and
a diminution on the value of the right would be a natural and
necessary consequence. It is evident, therefore, that the value
of the matter in controversy is not sufficient to give appellate
jurisdiction to this court.
It has, however, been suggested in the argument at the bar,
that the value may be estimated by referring to the penalty
of the bond taken by the Circuit Court when the injunction
was granted. But this rule would be entirely too vague and
uncertain for judicial purposes. It is the practice of all
courts, in taking bonds of this description, to prescribe a
penalty more than enough to cover all possible damages
which the respondent may sustain by reason of the injunction.
There was nothing before the Circuit Court when the penalty in
this case was prescribed, but the bill of thp complainants. And
although the bill disclosed a controversy where the matter in
dispute was worth in the market but $1,500; yet, when the
answer came in, and testimony was taken, it might show that
the matter in dispute was of far greater value. The court
cQi.ld not foresee whether this would be the case or not, and
hence the necessity and propriety of prescribing a penalty that
would cover all possible contingencies. The respondent, however, as we have, said, admits that he sold the privilege now
in dispute for the sum mentioned in the bill, and does not say
that it was worth more, or was of greater value in his hands
than in those of Griffiss & Cate. The sum mentioned in the
bill, and for which the privilege in question was sold by the
appellant, must therefore be taken as the true value of the
matter in controversy; an( being less than $2,000, whatever
errors may be apparent in the proceedings and decree of the
court below, we have yet no power under the act of Congress
to revise and correct them, and the appeal must be dismissed
for want of jurisdiction in this court.

