26

SUPREME COURT.
Chrizt Church v. The County of.Philadelphia.

leaves no room to question the policy of their laws as to a revival of rights once forfeited by laches.
In- ease like the present, where the complainant has been
compelled to have recourse to a court of chancery, because the
Union Bank no longer exists, in whose name the action of law
coul l be:sustained,he is, of course, subject to the same rules
of prescription as if he were in a court of law.
We are of opinion, therefore, that complainant's cause of
action is barred by the statutes of Texas, and that the matters
set forth in the bill to avoid their effect are insufficient.
The jiudgment of the District Court of Texas is therefore
affirmed, with costs.

THE RECTOR, CHURCH WARDENS, AND VESTRY, OF CHRIST CHURCH,
TIM CITY OF PHILADELPHIA, IN TRUST FOR CHRIST CHURCH
HOSPITAL, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. THE COUNTY OF PHILADEI,-

Whre.it does not appea either by express averment or by a necessary intenduent
from any matter stated in the case, nor does any entry on the record of the cause
in the Supreme Court of the State show, that any of the questions of which this
court is entitled to take cognizance under the terms of the 25th section of the
judi.iary act, arose in the cause aid were actually decided by that court, the
.Writ of error must be dismissed, for the want of jurisdiction.

THIs case was brought up from the Supreme Court of the
State of Pennsylvania, by a writ of error issued under the 25th
section ,of the judiciary act.
As the decision of the court was, that the record did not
show any ground of jurisdiction -underthe 25th section of the
judiciary act, it will be proper to state what that record was.
The acts of 1833 and 1851 are recited in the opinion of the
dourti, and need not be repeated.

The rector and church wardens were assessed f 9 r taxes upon
several pieces of property, amongst which was the following:
Lower Delaware ward, No. 8 Cherry street, Hospital lot, &c.,

$126.
They paid the tax upon the whole assessment, including the
above, under protest, and then brought an action in the State
court to recover the amount so paid. The court decided in
favor of the defendants. Upoia being carried to the Supreme
Court of the State, that court reversed the judgment of the
court below, so far as respected the tax upon the Hospital lot.
The rector and church wardens, believing that the whole of
the property ought to be exempted from taxation, brought the
case to this court. The question which they intended to raise

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

27

dCk*t church V.The County 9fPhiaddThia.

was, whether or not the act of 1883 was a contract, irrepealable except with -their consent. But.the record presentbd only
the following state of facts.,
.MirdA Term, 1853, ffo. 14&.

hokt' Entries.

The Rector, ChuichWardens, nd Vestrymen, of Christ Church, H. M. WATTS.
in the City of Philadelphia, in trustfor Christ Church Hospital,
145.
J W..D. BAKEIR.
The County of Philadelphia.

Summons case ret'ble the first Mdndy of Juv, 1s5, exit
11th May, 1853.
"Service accepted."
March 3d, 1854.-Case stated in the nature of a special-vervict filed.
April 1, 1854.---Judgment entered Without argumeftfot defendants by the court. By writiygildd-itis-agreed'that the
above case may be removed. by 'the plaintiffs to the Suprem63
Court, without any recognizance being given by them.. Eo die
assignments of errors filed.
April 4, 1854.-Argued.
December 27, 1854..-Reargued. March 12, 1855.-Opinion by C. J: Lewis, judgment reversed, and judgment in favor of the oplaintiffs -inerror -for the
sum of one hundred and twenty- ix dlla with cost . -Eodie
opinion fled.
The case was submitted on a printed aro-tment, by Xr. Watts
and Mr. Meredith for the plaintiffs in error, and .Xr. Porter for
the defendants.
The argumeiit proceeded upon'the ground that.the question
of impairing the obligation of-a contract was raised. by .the
record; but, as the court- decided that no such question was
properly involved in the discussion, it is thought unnecessary
to report the arguments.
'Mr. Justice CAMPBELTJ deivered the opinion of the oourt.
* This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania,.-under the 25th section of the judiciary act of the 24th
September, 1789.
These parties, without any pleadgin , stated a case, in the

SUPREME COURT.
Christ Church v. The County of Philadelphia.

nature of a special verdict to the Supreme Court of the State
of Pennsylvania, upon which a final judgment was rendered.
It appears from the case, that in April, 1833, the Legislature
of Pennsylvania enacted: "That Christ Church Hospital,
having for many years afforded an asylum to numerous poor
and distressed widows, who would probably else have become
a public charge, and tht, in consequence of the decay of the
buildings of the hospital estate, and the increasing burden of
the taxes, its means are curtailed and its usefulness limited;
therefore, that the real property, including ground rents now
belonging and payable to Christ Church Hospital, in the city of
Philadelphia, so long as the same shall continue to belong to
the hospital, shall be and remain free from taxes."
That in April, 1851, the Legislature of the same State enacted, "that all property, real and personal, belonging to any
association or incorporated company, which is now by law exempt from taxation, other than that which is in the actual use
and occupation of such association or incorporated compauy,
and from which an income or revenue is derived by the owners
thereof, shall hereafter be subject to taxation, in the same manner and for the same purposes as other property is now by
law taxable; and so much of any law as is hereby altered and
supplied be, and the same is hereby, repealed: Provided, That
nothing herein contained shall be construed to exempt cemetery companies from taxation."
It further appears, in the case stated, that the county of Philadelphia, in the year 1852, caused certain real estate and ground
rents of the plaintiffs in the city of, Philadelphia, and which
were possessed by the plaintiffs before the date of the act first
mentioned, to be valued and assessed for taxes, and that the
taxes were subsequently paid to the officers of the county, under protest, by them. The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania
determined that the plaintiff' were entitled to recover only for
so much of the taxes assessed and paid which were levied for
property in the actual occupancy of the plaintiff for hospital
purposes.
It does not appear, either by express averment or by a necessary intendment from any matter stated in the case, nor does
any entry on the record of the cause in the Supreme Court
of Pennsylvania show, that any of the questions of which this
court is entitled to take cognizance, under the terms of the
25th section of the judiciary act, arose in the cause, and were
actually decided by that court. Therefore, in conformity with
the established doctrine of this court, (Armstrong v. The Treasurer of Athens county, 16 Pet., 282; Smith v. Hunter, 7 How.
S.C.R., 738,) the writ of error must be dismissed.

