DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

29

Doncell v. De Le Lanza e-al.

J. TEMPLE DOSWELL, PLAINTIFP IN-EROR, V. ENRIQUE DE LA
L z.A ET AL.'
This court again decides, as in former cases, that a refusal of the court below to
grant a new trial is not a proper subject for a bill of exception.
Inan action of ejectment, where the defendant pleads the statute of limitations, he
must connect his own possession with the adverse p6ssession and title of anuther person which is set up as a defence. Otherwise, the plea is not good.
Under the decisions of the courts of Teias, a survey made of land beyond the limits
of the surveyor's district, although invalid at the time, is .rendered good by
the subsequent approval of the proper county surveyor. This court adopts the
rule.
Where patents for land in Texas were erroneously issued, it was proper to cancel
them

THIs case was brought up, by writ of error, from the District
Court of the United States for the district of Texas.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Hrale for the plaintiff in error, and Mr.
.Merriman for the defendant.
Mr. Justice McLEAff delivered the opinion of the court.
This case.is brought before us by a -writ of error to the Cir
cuit Court for the district of Texas.
In his petition, the plaintiff claims two leagues of land, worth
twenty-five thousand dollars, in Nueces county, San Patricio
district, on the bay of Corpus Christi, and west of the Nueces;
and he alleges that the defendants, on or about the 4th day of
October, 1849, entered into the possession of one-fourth of the
above premises, and ejected the petitioner, &c.
The defendants pleaded the general issue, and, by leave of
the court, filed an amended answer, containing six pleas in
bar. The first plea alleged an adverse possession of more than
ten years by Enrique Villareal. The second, that he had
peaceable and adverse possession for more than three years
after the right accrued to the person under whom the plaintiff
claims; aud that he did not make entry or commence an action to try title to the land before the 16th of June, 1842; and
that after that day, Henry L. Kinney, being seized of the land
from Villareal, held adverse and uninterrupted possession, without entry or action by plaintiff, up to the commencement of
this suit. Third, that Villareal, and tiose claiming under
him, held adverse and peaceable possession on the 17th bf
March, 1841, and up to the commencement of the action.
In the fourth plea, ten years' adverse possession was alleged ;
and in the fifth, an "adverse possession of three Years. 7Phe
sixth plea avers that each of the defendants, and those under
whom they claim, had adverse, peaceable, and continuous pos-

80

SUPREME COURT.
Doswel v. De La Lanza

a al.

session of the land for more than three years, under color of
title, .before the commencement of the action.
Special demurrers were filed to these pleas, except the sixth,
on which issue was joined. The demurrers were sustained to
the first and fourth pleas, but overruled by the court as to the
third and fifth. The issues before the jury were upon the plea
of not guilty, and the second, third, fifth, and sixth pleas of
prescription.
On the trial before the jury, two patents issued by the Republic of Texas, dated the 10th of April, 1849, to Levi Jones,
were given in evidence by-the plaintiff.. One of these patents
purported to be issued to Levi Jones, as assignee of Miguel
Basquez, for one league of land in the San Patricio district,
survey No. 20, on lhe west side of the Nueces, on Corpus
Christi bay, by virtue of head-right certificate No. 288.
The other patent was issued to Levi Jones, assignee of Jos6
Mla. Bargas, for a league of land in the same district, known
as survey No. 21, on the west side of Corpus Christi bay, adjoining survey No. 20, by virtue of head-right certificate 499.
To sTiow the position and outlines of the two leagues of land,
the plaintiff gave in evidence a part of Grammont's map, duly
certified by the land office.
The plaintiff also gave in evidence a deed of conveyance of
the land by Levi Jones to him, dated the 2d of October, 1849.
It was proved that the town of Corpus Christi is included iii
the surveys, and is situated on the shore of the bay. .Felix A.
Butcher, a witness, came to Corpus Christi first in the year
1846. He knows all or most of the defendants were in possession of the -land at least one year prior to the 8th of October, 1849; and at that time the lots upon which the defendants
resided were worth about ten dollars each; now they are worth
one hundred dollars each, in the best localities. The occupants have made valuable improvements on the lots.
The defendants then offered to read certified copies of two
,patents from the record, issued by. the State of Texas on the
11th of July, 1845, one to Kelsey it. Douglass, and the other
to John S. Thorn, assignee, &c., for the land claimed by
plaintiff, Both of these patents on the record book had written upon them a memorandum: "1This patent cancelled, April
10th, 1848."
It was proved that these patents had been inadvertently issued to Douglass and Thorn, when the field-notes of the surveys had been returned in the name of Levi Jones, assignee,
&c. They were cancelled on the advice of the Attorney
General. The plaintiff objected to the introduction of the above
copies; but the objection was overruled, and the papers admitted.

DECEMBER TERMj, 1857.
Do&-dZ T. De a Lanza

31

at

* Proof was then made that Eirique Villareal held possession.
of a tract of ten leagues, including the land in -controversy,
from the year 1810 down to- the year 1839, claiming it from.1810 to 1831 under a title from the Spanish Government; that
in 1839 Henry L. Kinney succeeded Villareal in possession,
but the deed for the land was not made to him until the f6llowing year; that Villareal was a native of Mexico, and at the
time of the grant to him by the State of Tamaulipas was a citizen of that State, and held a coinmission in the army. The
grant was alleged to have been lost, and the court'held it could
not be proved by parol; but documentary and parol proof were
admitted to show the boundaries claimed and the possession
of Villareal. !A great number of facts were proved, historical
and otherwise; in regard to this claim, which it is unnecessary
here to state.
Objection to this part of the defence was -made, but overruled, and the evidence was admitted.
The plaintiff then requested the court to give to the jury
twenty-one instructions, principally in relation to the title of
Villareal, which go into details of great length, but which,
from the view we have taken of the case, it is, not necessary to
repeat.
The court refused to give any of the instructions re'quested
by the plaintiff, but charged the jury, "that the plaintiff must
recover on the strength of his own title, not on the weakness
of his adversary's; that if the surveys on which the patenfs in
evidence were issued were void when made, the plaintiff can
claim no title to land under such patents; that if the surveys
were made west of the Nueces river, on Corpus Christi bay,
prior to the 24th of May, 1838, by'the deputy surveyor of San
Patricio county, they were void, because San Patricio county
did not, at that time, extend west of theriver Nueces; and the
approval of the county surveyor, Buchanan, 'even if given after
the 24th of May, 1838, relates back in 1oint.of time to the date
of the surveys by his deputy, but does not have the effect of
making good the surveys, if at the time they were made by
the deputy surveyor they were out of the limits of the county;
that if Villareal had acquired a title to the land, under the Government of Spain-or Mexico, before his death, and if he died
an alien enemy to'the Republic of Texas in 1845, leaving only
alien enemies as his heirs, still his title to the land in controversy did not escheat to the Republic, and consequently could
not pass by the subsequent patents issued by the Republic or
State; that as these - instrnctions are sufficient for the decision
of the case, the court refused the instructions asked by the
plaintiff. Exceptions were taken by the plaintiff, as well to the

SUPREME COURT.
Domwel v. De La Lanza et al.

instructions asked by him and refused, as to those given against
him, on the prayers of the defendants.
The decision of the court on a motion for a new trial, which
was excepted to, affords no ground for a writ of error. Such a
motion is addressed to the sound discretion of the court, on a
consideration of the evidence before the jury; and this court
can no more control that discretion than when it is exercised
by the Circuit Court, in granting continuances or amendments
of the pleadings.
As to the pleas which set up the claim and possession of
Villareal, as a bar, under the statute of limitations, to the plaintiff's action, it does not appear from the evidence that the
defendants are in any way connected with that title. There is
nothing in the facts of the case which conduce to show an entry under it by the defendants, or that they entered under any
claim of title. It is proved by one witness, that a part of the
defendants, if not all of them, were in possession of the premises they now occupy, at least one year prior to the 8th of October, 1849. On the 3d of that month and year, the seizin of the
plaintiff is stated in his petition. From this, it would appear
that the defendants' possession was prior to the seizin of the
plaintiff; so that, in regard to him, they cannot be considered
as having ejected him by their entry, his legal title not having
then accrued. But if the defendants entered without claim of
title, which must be presumed, as they have shown no title,
they become trespassers on the premises of the plaintiff after
his title accrued.
Villareal died in 1844 or 1845. It is contended that he retained
possession of the premises up to 1839, and that Kinney took
possession in that year under him, and continued in the possession until the -ommencement of this action. This possession is controverted by the plaintiff, on evidence that Kinney's
residence was in another county, and that he was only occasionally at Corpus Christi; but, if his possession be admitted
as asserted, it is not perceived how it could inure to the benefit
of the defendants under the statute of limitations, as Kinney
is not a defendant, and they show no privity with his title.
Possession, to be effectual, either to prevent a recovery or vest
a right under the statute of limitations, must be an actual possession, attended with a manifest intention to hold and continue it. It must be, in the language of the authorities, an
actual, continued, adverse, and exclusive possession for the
space of time required by the statute. It need not be continued by the same person; but when held by different persons, it must be shown that a privity existed between them.
Wheeler v. Moody, 11 Texas Rep., 372.

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.
.odweU

33

v.De La Lanza et al.

In the action of ejectment, the defendant may show a paramount outstanding and subsisting title for the same land in a
stranger, to defeat the plaintiff; and the rule of evidence is the
same in this action, although it is prosecuted .under the forms
adopted by Texas. A large portion of the evidence in the record, and many of the authorities cited inthe Circuit Court,
were to show an olderand paramount title to the same land,
under the Mexican Government, by Villareal, and Kinney,
'his assignee; but, as there are other points on which the case
may be decided, the court will not consider the validity of that
title.
The court instructed the jury, that if the surveys were made
west of the INueces river, on Corpus Christi bay, prior to the
24th of May, 1838, by the deputy surveyor 6f San Patricio
county, they were void, because San Patricio did hot eat that
tinie extend west of the river Nueces; and the approval of the
county surveyor, Buchanan, even if given after the 24th of
May, 1838, does not make them valid.
It was held, in Linn v. Scott, 3 Texas Rep., 6,that :a survey
made by a surveyor of any other county than that in which the
land lies, is a nullity. But, in Horton v. Pace, 9 Texas Rep.,
81, the court say, "We do not question the right of a surveyor
to adopt a previous survey.he thinks correct; but we do not
admit it was the duty of the court to oblige him to adopt one.
shown to be incorrect." And in Warren v. Sherman, 5 Texas,
441, it is said a survey, whensoever made, if supported"- y a
recommended certificate, is, in contemplation of law, valid; if
otherwise, it is without legal foundation. In Lake v. Wafer,
16 Texas Rep., the court held, "A survey made in'1841,without certificate, and applied to-the certificate of 1844, constitutes no objection to the validity of the patent." If a deputy
surveyor make a survey for himself, on.a 6ertificat9 belonging
to himself, when approved by the district surveyor,"it becomes
the act of the latter, and was so far valid. Howard v.Perry,
7 Texas Rep., 259.
U nder these decisions, te Circui Court erred ingiving the
above instruction. If the surveys were void wheiL made west
of the Nueces, ai being without the linm~ts of San Patricio
county, they -were made valid by the subsequent approval of
the county surveyor, after tire county limits were extended
west of that river.
I
The cancellation of the patents stated by the acting Commissioner of the Land Office, by the advice- of 'the Attorney
General, was proper. The Commissioner, in issuing a patent,
performs a ministerial duty; and if it be fraudulently or negligently issued to an improper person, the error should be,corVOL. XX.

3

SUPREME COURT.
"Wadev. Leroy et al.

rected. The divestiture of the title by the Government can
only be accomplished in the mode authorized by law.
It is desirable that points of exceptions and instructions
asked from the court to the jury should be as few and as concisely expressed as may be consistent with the interests of the
respective parties.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is reversed, and the cause
remanded for further proceedings.

AMos WADE,

PLAINTIFF, v. JACOB R. LEROY AND HENRY
PIERREPOINT.

E.

In an action against the owners of a ferry boat, for personal injuries sustained by
the negligence of its officers, it was held that the plaintiff might show that he
was engaged in a particular business, and had been incapacitated from attending
to it, as exhibiting the extent of the injury, and that it had occasioned expense,
suffering, and loss of time which had value to him, although the nature of his
occupation was not set forth in the declaration.

THIs case came up from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the southern district of New York, on a certificate
of division in opinion between the judges thereof.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

It was argued by Mr. Gillet for the plaintiff, on which side
there was also filed a brief of Mr. Reed, and by Mr. O'Connor
for the defendants, on which side there was also a brief of
Mr. Silliman.
The following notice of the points made by the counsel for
the plaintiff is taken from the brief of Mr. Gillet:
POINTS.

FIRST.- Under the averments in the declaration, the plaintiff had

a lawful right to prove that he was engaged in business, its character
and extent.
The amount of damages sustained by the plaintiff essentially
depended upon Questions, whether the plaintiff was engaged
in business, its peculiar character, and the extent of it.
The plaintiff would suffer more damage if deprived of a
good business, than if he had none to lose.
Its character might be such that he could not attend to it at
all, or only partially so, after his injury.
If his business was large, so as to require health, strength,
and talents, he would lose more than if it were small, and

