DECE-BER TERM, 1857.
Hemmenway v. Fisher.

or conjectural state of facts, of which no evidence has been
offered. The instruction presupposes that there is some evidence before the jury which they may think sufficient to establish the facts hypothetically assumed in the opinion of th3
court; and if there is no evidence which they have a right to
consider, then the charge does not aid them in coming to correct conclusions, but its tendency is to embarrass and mislead
them. It may induce them to indulge in conjectures, instead
of weighing the testimony.
In the case before us, we do not see any evidence in the record which tends, in the least degree, to prove any one of the
facts hypothetically assumed in-the opinion. If such testimony
was given, it certainly does not appear in the transcript. And
upon this ground, without examining further into the opinion
of the court below, the judgment mutst be reversed.

AUGUSTUS HEM IENWAY, CLAIMANT OF THE SHiP LNDEPENDENCE,
V. WILLIAM B. FISHER.
Where a judgment of the Circuit Court, sitting in admiralty, was affirmed here by
a divided court, interest was not to be calculated upon the judgment.
The eighteenth rule of this court never applied to cases in admiralty which are
brought up by appeal, and the rule itself is repealed by the sixty-second rule.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of Massachusetts, sitting in admiralty.
It was argued at the preceding term of this court by Lfr.
Loring for the appellant, and Mr. Bartlett and Mr. Thaxter for
the appellee. The judgment of the Circuit Court was affirmed'
by a divided court, and a mandate was issued for the amount
named in such judgment, but no interest was mentioned, as
ndne was giv.en in the judgment of the Circuit Court. The
mandate was not filed in the Circuit Court, and at the present
term Mr. Bartlett made the following motion, which was argued
by Arr. Gillett:
And now the appellee moves to amend the "judgment rendered in this cause at the December term of this court, in the
year of our Lord 1856, by giving to the appellants damages
on the decree of the Circuit Court, at the rate of six per centum
per annum, and that the judgment be so reformed, and for
cause shows1st. That the mandate in said cause, though issued, has never
been presented to the Circuit Court, and is now returned herewith, and filed with the clerk.

SUPREME COURT.
Ifemmenway v. Fisher.

2d. That, upon inquiry of several of the judges, it has been
ascertained that the question of damages was not passed upon
by the court, and so this motion is not precluded by the past
action of this court.
3d. That by the rules of this court, (ios. 17 and 18,) "-"here
there are no special circumstances, six per cent. interest is allowed on the judgment of the court below," and the omission
to insert the same in the record and mandate is deemed by
this court a mere clerical error,capable of amendment at a succeeding term of this court, if the mandate has not been presented to the Circuit Court, and shall be restored to the files
of this court. (Bank of IKentucky v. Withers, 3 Peters, 431.)
4th. The fact that the judgment in this case was affirmed
upon a division of opinion among the members of the court
cannot make it a case of "special circumstances" within the'
case above cited, since it is hardly to be presumed that in all
cases where there are difficulties in a cause, the party ultimately
prevailing is to lose his damages.
Any rule that should make damages in such case on a division of opinion upon the main question among the members of
the court, would be open to the suggestion that in principle it
ought not to make them depend upon an exact equal divisinn,
but apportion them according to the number of dissenting opinions among the members of the court.
S. BARTLETT, for the Appellee.
The appellant objects to the amendment proposed in the
judgment rendered in the above entitled cause, and to the
allowance of the interest claimed.
1st. Because no interest or damaoes were claimed at the
Hearing in this cause; the proper time to have presented this
claim was at the hearing; and it is too late, after a decree has
been rendered and a mandate issued, to seek at a subsequent
term to raise that question. In the case of the Santa Maria,
10 Wheat., 431, 436, the court say, "In this view, it (the claim
of interest) was matter open for discussion upon the original
appeal; and no interest having been asked or granted, the
claim is finally at rest. What was formerly before the court
cannot again be drawn into controversy." A decree in which
no damages are allowed is conclusive and final.
In the case Boyce's Ex'r v. Grundy, reported 9 Peters, 275,
the court say, "It is solely for the decision of the Supreme
Court, whether any damages or interest (as a part thereof) are
to be allowed in cases of afrmance, (p. 290.) If, upon affirmauce, no allowance of interest or damages is made, it is equivalent to a denial of any interest or damages, (p. 290.)

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

257

Hemmenway'v. FisTher.

In the present case, the motion assundes and ilmits that no
such allowance was made by the court; thi6 decree, therefore,
is equivalent to a denial of damages.
The case referred to in 3d of Peters would seem to have been
an error of the clerk in not entering the judgment, with the
damages which the court decreed, or intended to decree.
This is a different case; no damages were claimed by the
appellant, and none were decreed, or intended to be decreed,
by the court. Here was no clerical error, but an omission or
waiver of a claim to damages by the appellee; and consequently
the court did not decree any.
2d. The appellee cannot rest any claim on the fact that the
mandate has not been delivered to the Circuit Court; that is
his own wrong.
It was his duty to have delivered it immediately upon its
being issued.
And had it been so delivered, the appellant would have
paid the amount of the judgment; and has in fact held the
money unused from that time to the present, for the purpose,
and will do so until the final decree in the Circuit Court.
If therefore the decree is to be changed, and any interest allowed, the appellant claims that he ought not to be charged
with iutczest after the mandate was issued, none having been
claimed by the appellee; and the mandate having been retained
nearly twelve months in his hands, to the detriment of the
appellant.
WILLT.
DEnoN, for Appellant.
Appellee'6 Reply.
1st. The ground that appellee must be deemed to have
waived the application of a standing rule of this court to his ease,
because he did not specially ask at hearing that it be apphed,
cannot, it is submitted, be maintained.
2d. The case of the Santa Maria, 10th Wheaton, cited by
appellant, has, it is submitted, no application, since it was an
attempt to alter the terms of a stipulation made in the admiralty by a claimant, and insert an engagement to pay interest
on the sum stipulated. Nor does the case of Boyce v. Grundy,:
9 Peters, affect this application, since that case proceed&on the
ground that the court passed on the question of allowing damages, and purposely entered the decree without making the
aTlowance. This application proceeds on the ground. (supposed
to be ascertained) that the court did not pass on:the question
at all, and that under the general, rule damages are to be allowed unless purposely denied; and this is the point determined by 3d Peters, 431.
VOL. XX.
17

258

SUPREME COURT.
ifemmenway v. Fisher.

3d. The suggestion, that at all events interest ought to be
denied after the mandate issued, ought not to prevail, if there
was what the court deem a clerical error, since appellee had no
remedy in the vacation of this court, and appellant has in the
mean time enjoyed the use of the money.
S. BARTLETT, for Appelee.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the
court.
This case was decided at the last term. It was an appeal
from the decree of the Circuit Court for the district of 3Massachusetts, sitting as a court of admiralty. The decree was affirmed here by an equal division of the Justices of this court;
and the decree of aflirmance was entered by the clerk for the
sum awarded by the Circuit Court and costs, and did not give
interest on the amount decreed by the court below. The mandate was issued according to the decree; but it was not filed
or proceeded on by the appellee, because he supposed that,
under the eighteenth rule of this court, he was entitled to interest upon the amount recovered in the Circuit Court, from
the date of the decree, and that its omission was a clerical
error. And he has now moved the court, to correct it by
amending the decree and mandate.
If an error has been committed. by the clerk, it is, without
doubt, in the power of the court to correct it at the present
term.
But the judgment is correctly entered, and the mandate
conforms to it. And the mistake on the part of the appellee
has arisen from supposing the eighteenth rule to be still in
force, and to be applicable to cases in admiralty. But it never
applied to admiralty cases.
It will be observed by reference to the seventeenth rule, to
which the eighteenth refers, that these rules are in express
terms confined to cases brought here by writ of error. And
it is true that, by the original judiciary act of 1789, decrees in
chancery and admiralty, as well as judgments at common law,
in the Circuit Courts, were removable to this court by writ of
error, and were not made removable in any other manner.
And if that provision in the act of 1789 was still in force, and
the rule unrepealed, the appellee would be entitled to the interest he claims, to be calculated under the twentieth rule, to
the day of the affirmance of the decree.
But the writ of error, from its form, and the principles which
govern it, is peculiarly appropriate to judgments at common
law, and is inconvenient and embarrassing when used as
process to remove decrees in chancery and admiralty to a su-

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

259

Bemmenway v. .Fishcr.

perior court. The ordinary and uniform mode of removing
such decrees to the appellate and revising court, wherever such
jurisdictions have been established, has been by appeal, with
the single exception of this act of Congress. And, in order to
remove the inconvenience and embarrassment which this provision in the act of 1789 created, it was repealed bythe act of
March 2, 1803, and the ordinary mode of appeal substituted in
the place of the writ of error. And as this case came up by
appeal, the rules of this court referred to in'the argument do
not apply to it.
Nor indeed were they intended to apply to chancery or admiralty decrees. They were adopted at February term, 1853,
and that term continued until the 2d of March. It was on
that day that the act of Congress changing the provision. in
the act of 1789 was approved by the President. And it appears by the minutes of the court that the rules in question
were adopted on the same day, that is, March 2d. This act
of Congress had therefore, undoubtedly, passed both Houses
of Congress before these rules were adopted, "nd it'is evident
that they were carefully framed with reference to this change
in the law, so as to exclude from their operation admiralty and
chancery appeals.
It may be proper to add, that the eighteenth and twentieth
rules are no longer in force, even in common-law cases. They
have been superseded and annulled by the sixty-sec6nd rule,
adopted in 1851. By this last-mentioned rule, judgments at
common law and decrees in chancery, upon affirmance in this
court, carry interest until paid; and the interest is. to be calculated according to the rate of interest allowed in the-State
in which the judgment or decree of the court below was given.
The object in changing the rule in this respect was to place
the suitors in the courts of the United States upon the same
footing with the suitors in the State courts in like cases. For
the interest allowed in the several States differs, and in many
of them it is higher than six per cent., and in most if not all.
of them a judgment or decree in a court of the State carries'
interest until it is paid..
Cases in admiralty, however, are not embraced in the sixtysecond rule. It applies to cases of law and equity only. And,
indeed, cases in admiralty could not have been justly included.
For there could be nq reason for giving one rate of interest
where, a case of collision or salvage was in the first instance
tried and decided in Louisiana, and another rate of interest
where it was tried and decided in New Y ork, or in any other
State where the interest allowed by the State laws was different.

SUPREME COURT.
HIemmenway v. Fiher.

Moreover, in cases of collision and salvage, and more especially in the latter, it is impossible to fix the sun that ought to
be awarded with absolute certainty by any rule of calculation.
It must depend mainly upon estimates, and the opinions of
persons acquainted with the subject; and, acting upon mere
estimates and opinions, different minds unavoidably come
to different conclusions as to the amount proper to be allowed.
And it will sometimes happen in an admiralty case, that this
court will think that the damages estimated and allowed in
the Circuit Court are too high, and yet the opinion here may
approximate so nearly to that of the court below, that this
court would not feel justified in reversing its judgment. Besides, new testimony may be taken here, in an admiralty case,
and a new aspect given to it. No rule, therefore, fixing any
certain rate of interest upon decrees in admiralty, whenever
the decree is affirmed, could be adopted with justice to the
parties. And a discretionary power is reserved, to add to the
damages awarded by the court below, further damages by way
of interest, in cases where, in the opinion of this court, the
appellee, upon the proofs, is justly entitled to such additional
damages. But this allowance of interest is not an incident to
the affirmance affixed to it by law or by a rule of court. If
given by this court, it must be in the exercise of its discretionary power, and, pro tanto, is a new judgment.
In the case before us, no new judgment could be given in
this court, because, upon the question of affirming or reversing
the decree of the Circuit Court, the Justices of this court were
equally divided; and the judgment was affirmed by operation
of law, which from necessity affirms the judgment of the inferior tribunal when the judges of the appellate court are equally
divided. Upon such an affirmance, the appellee was entitled
to the full benefit of the decree of the Circuit Court, but
nothing more. The court, being equally divided, could not
change the decree of the Circuit Court, nor exercise its discretionary power to allow interest on the decree; for this would
have been a new decree. And those Justices who were of
opinion that the decree of the Circuit Court ought to be reversed because the damages were too high, were of course opposed to making it still higher by the addition of interest.
The motion to amend the decree and mandate, and give interest on the amount awarded by the Circuit Court, must
therefore be overruled.

