SUPREME COURT.
Grant et al. v. Poillon et al.
WILLIAM B. GRANT, WILLIAM BRADSTREET, WILLIAM L. FLITNER, PETER GRANT, IN oHIS OWN RIGHT AND AS ADMINISTRATOR
OF THOMAS GRANT, DECEASED, ELIZABETH F. GRANT, ADDMINISTRATRIX, WILLIAM St GRANT AND GEORGE BACON, ADMINISTRATORS OF THE ESTATE OF SAMUEL C. GRANT, DECEASED,
OWNERS OF THE AMERICAN SHIP CONSTELLATION, LIBELLANTS
AND APPELLANTS, V. CORNELIUS POILLON, RICHARD POILLON,
JAMES L.VARICK, IMPLEADED WITH H. JOHNSON, HICKS, BAILEY,
WILLIAM Y. CLARK, DEAN W. W. HINCHEN, C. J1. CLARK,
AND D. D. MILLER, RESPONDENTS AND APPELLEES.
Where the master of a vessel was also part owner, and made a contract of afireightment with a lumber company, of which be was also a member, and the cargo
was consigned to the master, the case is not within admiralty jurisdiction, but
appropriate to that of a court of chancery.
THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the southern district of New York, sitting in ad-

miralty.
It will be perceived, by the caption, that Flitner was one of
the libellants, and, as he was also a member of the Constellation Lumber Company, he was on both sides of the case.
The circumstances under which the libel was filed are stated
in the opinion of the court. The District Court dismissed the
libel; and upon an appeal, this decree was affirmed by the Circuit Court. The libellants then appealed to this court.
The case was argued by Mr. Goodrich for the appellants, and
submitted on a printed argument by Mr. Donohue.
Mr. Goodrich made the following points, viz:
I. The contract which is set forth in the bill of lading, and
the services performed under it, appertain to the admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction, and the libellants are entitled, prima
facie, to its assistance.
II. The libellants, as owners of the ship, have not made any
agreement with the owners of the cargo, by which the rights
or remedies of the libellants, derived from the contract set
forth in the bill of lading, have been diminished.
I]-. The agreement which Flitner made with the respondents does not purport to bind the owners of the ship; Flitner,
as master, or as part owner, had no implied authority to bind
the ship, or its owners, to such an agreement, and no express
authority to that effect is shown.
IV. Assume that some portion of the freight-money would
be due to Flitner, upon a statement of an account between the

DEOEMBER TERM, 1857.

163

Grant et a. v. Poillon et al.

owners of the ship; and that Flitner, by agreement with the
respondents, (to which the ship and its owners were no party,)'
is bound to contribute to the payment of the freight-money,
and thereupon, to the extent of suoh contributory share, the
respondents have an equity against Flitner to retainhis share
of the freight-money; such equity does not change the character of the contract set forth in the bill of lading, or the rights
of the libellants under it,.or take away the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction which attached, as an incident to the contract,
if I may so say, the moment it was entered into, and continued,
when the libel was filed.
a. The contract into which the owners of the ship entered
is entirely within the admiralty and maritime julisdiction. If
they had made a contract principally appertaining, in its subject-matter, to some other jurisdiction, and only incidentally
embracing matters of a maritime character, they might have
been obliged to resort to a court of common law, or to a coirt
of equity; but not having entered into any such contract, they
are not excluded from the admiralty by any equities-which the
respondents may have against Flitner, by reason of a contract
with which neither the ship nor its owners are in privity, and
which has no connection with the contract evidenced by the
bill of lading. (The Pacific, 1 Blatchford, 569; Le Gaux v.
den, Doug ls, 606.)
V. There is no averment, in the answer of the respondents,
that Flitner has not contributed to them all which he was
bound to contribute; 'it contains no averment that any sum,
upon a statement of an account between the owners of the
ship, would be due to Flitner from the other part owners.
There is no foundation for any subsisting equity in favor of
the respondents.
VI. Flitner, as master, in making the contract set forth in
the bill of lading, undertook to bind the owners of the ship,
including himself, as the party on the one side contracting, to
and with the owners of the cargo, excluding himself, as the
contracting party, on the other.
a. The libellants, from the facts. in proof; have a right to say
that the respondents, knowing their relation to Flitner, meant
to bind themselves in the manner suggested. (Brown on Actions at Law, 133, 134; Robson v. Drummond, 2 B. and Ad.,
303; Sims et al. v. Bond, 5 B. and Ad., 389.)
c. The respondents having received the consideration and
benefit of the contract, set forth in the bill of lading, which they
entered into with Flitner, the agent of the libellants, cannot in
any manner, or for any purpose, set up. a private agreement
made by themselves with Flitner, so as to defeat or impair the

164

SUPREME COURT.
Grant et al. v. Poillon et al.

rights or remedies of the libellants, under their bill of lading.
(Catts v. Phalen, 2 How., 381; Bradford et al. v. Williams, 4
How., 588; Van Rensselaer v. Kearney, 11 How., 326; Curran v. Arkansas, 15 How., 309; Philadelphia, Wilmington,
and Baltimore Railroad v. Howard, 13 How., 326; Comer v.
Jackson, 4 Pet., 83 to 87; Comth. v. Heirs of Andre, 3 Pick.
Rep., 324; The Repulse, 2 Wm. Robinson Rep., 399; Pitt v.
Chappelow, 2 M. and W., 6, 15, 19, 20; The Frederick,
1 Dodson Adm. Rep., 266; Bacon v. Robertson, 18 How.,
480.)
d. The libellants could not have been compelled to make
delivery of the cargo without payment of freight; and upon
refusal by the respondents to pay, might have had a sale under
the admiralty; the respondents, upon an offer to pay freight,
and a refusal of the libellants to deliver the cargo, might have
proceeded against the libellants in the admiralty, and the libellants could not have resisted by pleading the private agreement of Flitner with the respondents.
VII. The non joinder of Flitner, as party respondent, cannot avail as ground of exception or defence.
a. It should have been set up by way of exceptive allegation,
and not in the answer. (Reed v. Hussey, Blatch. and Tiowl.,
525; 2 Conkling Adm. Juris., 583, 584, 585; Pratt v. Thomas,
Ware Rep., 427; Certain Logs of Mahogany, 2 Sum. Rep., 589;
Sheppard v. Graves, 11 How., 509; Conard v. The Atlantic Ins.
Co., 1 Peters, 386, 450; De Wolf v. Rabaud, 1 Peters, 476, 498;
Sims v. Handley, 6 How., 1; Smith v. Kernochen, 7 How., 198;
Evans v. Gee, 11 Peters, 80,)
b. If it may be set up in the answer, it must be regarded as
an exceptive allegation; and as such it is insufficient, because
it does not show who are the owners or members of the Constellation Lumber Company, or that they are unknown and cannot be described.
c. Flitner, as master and part owner of the ship, is a proper
party libellant; the respondents are estopped, by their contract
with him, as the agent of the libellants, to set up an adverse
private interest created by themselves.
Mr. Goodrich cited, also, the following authorities: Waring
v. Clark, 5 How., 541; Parsons v. Bulford, 3 Peters, 447; The
Catherine, 6 Notes of Cas. Ere. and Mar. Supp., 43,49; Mereton v. Gibbens, 3 D. and E., 267; The Repulse, 5 Notes of Cas.
Ece. and Mar., 348, 350, 351; Abbott on Shipping, 7 Lon. edi.,
105, see. 4; The Lady Campbell, 2 Hag. Adm., 14, note; Willard v. Dorr, 3 Mason, 161, 171; The England, 5 Notes Cas.
Ecc. and Mar., 173 , 174; Collyer on Partnership, 4 Am. edi.,
see. 719; Greeni "afv. Queen, 1 Peters, 149.

-DECEMBER TERM, 1857.
Grant et al. v. Poillon et al.

Xlr. Donohue made the following points:
First. Flitnfer was a proper party respondent in the court
below; and until he*is- made a party, no further proceedings
should have been had in the court below; and this was no
ground for exception. The only ground for exception to the
libel for the causes is rule XXXVI, of the Supreme Court.
The persons composing the so-called Constellation Lumber
Company, of which he was one, being partners, are all liable
in solido; and the objection being taken by answer, they cannot
proceed until he is made a party defendant.
Second. Ships being made "to plough the seas, and not lie
by the walls," and as all the owners owning from a sixty-fourth
to a half cannot act at once, one owner must. (See Story on
Partnership, sec. 418.) And his contracts are the contracts of
all in the employment of the vessel (Story on Agency Part.,
sec. 419) or her repairs. Flitner was not only master, but part
owner, acting for all.
Third. Supposing Flitner to have only been master, the facts
show a ratification of his act, and full authority.
1. The vessel in Nfew York, without cargo, with all the owners within one day (by mail or travel) oF the vessel, they of
course knew what was going' on.
2. A contract, made 22d §eptember, to go perhaps to Callao
at one freight, perhaps to the Sandwich Islands at another,
perhaps to Galifornia at a different one-under this, goods were
shipped, 12th of November, nearly two months after. Is it to
be supposed that a vessel of this size should be about starting
on such a voyage, without the other owners knowing and apf
proving of the act? Is this a fair conclusion of law or fact?
3. Their entire approval and even ratification of his act is
apparent from all the circumstances.
Fourth. The libellants, including Flitner, were all partners
in the sailing of the vessel. (Abbott on Shipping, p. 111; Story
on Partnership, sees. 441, 444,408.) And notice to one is notice
to all. (See Story on Partnership, sees. 107, 108.) They were
therefore chargeable with notice of this contract when it was
made, and have never disapproved of it, if they had the right.
They had notice from 22d of September to 12th N~ovember,
before the ship sailed, with one partner acting, and did not
attempt to disaffirm.
Fifth. The libellant, Flitner, is liable individually for the
whole debt claimed to'be due from the respondents to the libellants, as one of the partners in the Constellation Lumber Company, and he could be compelled to pay, and be left to his
action for a settlement with his copartners. A payment to him,
as one of the owners of the whole debt, would discharge the

SUPREME COURT.
Grant et al. v. Poillon et al.

indebtedness of the company to the owners of the ship, and
leave them to their account for a settlement against him in
equity. (Story on Part., sec. 419.)
Sixth. If Flitner is, in fact, the creditor of his co-owners,
exclusive of this claim, then, in law, such debt due from them
to him operates to extinguish the debt to the whole jointly; for
with one the other is paid. It nowhere appears that Flitner
is, in fact, their debtor, and most likely is their creditor; and
he now seeks in this way to collect out of his partner, money
not of right payable to him or them. (See Abbott on Shipping, pp. 130, 131, sec. 5; see, as to such rights, Story on Part.,
sec. 406.)
Seventh. The whole of the facts of this case show it to be
one of purely equitable cognizance.
1. A captain and partner, owner in a ship wanting freight,
entering on her behalf into a bargain to get a cargo, simply to
employ that vessel.
2. The purchase, by a company, of which such owner is one,
of the cargo, for the purpose of shipment, and a loss of all the
outlay, and $2,300 besides.
3. That the ship realizes $11,000, and over, on the shipment.
4. Large claims on the part of the copartners for the detention of the cargo, and other acts of the captain.
, Under these circumstances, equity would certainly give the
partners owning that capital some show in the distribution of
the remnants, as well as the ship her freight; but this is an
attempt, by bringing the case into a court not competent to
fully dispose of the matters, and clogged with restraints, to
avoid the just responsibility the parties have assumed, and to
make the Poillons pay the whole, (besides losing their investment,) of which they should only pay one-half.
,-Eighth. But suppose, as has been and is contended by the
libellants, that the bill of lading is entirely independent and
distinct of the original contract, and. has no necessary connection with it, then this case assumes a phase which would
prevent a recovery in any form of action, or in any forum,
because1. By the terms of the bill of lading, the cargo is consigned
to one of the libellants, and a part owner bf the ship.
2. The case shows that he accepted the consignment, and
actually sold and disposed of the property consigned.
3. By law, having accepted the consignment, he became
liable for the payment of the freight; and, by the terms of the
bill of lading, he actually covenants to pay the freight reserved
in it "unto William L. Flitner, or his assigns, he or they paying freight." (ide bill of lading.)

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

167

Grantet al. v. Poillon et al.

4. This case would present the anomaly of a party suing
on an instrument whereby not only by law he is himself liable
for the payment of the sum demanded, and which, by the terms
of the instrument upon which the suit is instituted, he expressly
covenants to pay.
'Air. Justice McLEAN delivered the-opinion of the court.
This is an appeal in admiralty from the Circuit Court for
the southern district of New York.
The libellants, Grant and others, are the sole owners of. the
ship Constellations and they bring an action of afreightment,
civil and maritime, against the respondents, and allege that
William L. Flitner was master of the ship; that the respondents were copartners, under the name of the " Constellation
Lumber Company;" and that, on or about the 12th November, 1849, they agreed to ship on board the Constellation, then
lying in the port of New York, 230,655 feet of lumber and
29,700 cypress shingles, to be delivered at the port of Valparaiso,
Sandwich Islands, or San Francisco,. unto the above-named
Flitner, or his assigns, he paying the freight upon the same.
The ship proceeded on her voyage, and delivered the lumber
and shingles unto the said William L. Flitner, at San Franin the year 1850. That
day of-,
cisco, on or about the there was due for the freight of the lumber, with primage, the
sum of $13,944.02, of which sum Flitner paid $11,494.93,
which were the net proceeds of thelumber, leaving a balance
of $2,449.09 due and unpaid; and it is averred hat Flitner,
acting as consignee, and in making sale of the lumber, was the
agent of the respondents, and a decree for the payment of this
balance by the respondents is prayed.
The respondents deny that they compose the company, and
that Flitner acted as their agent, &c.; and they say that the
lumber.was shipped on account of the said vessel and of said
company, the said vessel being interested in said company,
and that the transaction was a partnership one, and not a subject of jurisdiction in this court; that'Flitner, named as a
libellant, was and is interested, and one of the parties in the
"Constellation Lumber Company," and is a proper party respondent herein; that the subject-matter of the suit is not
within the admiralty or maritime jurisdiction of this court,
and of which it has no cognizance.
It was agreed'thai ten persons named--about the 22d of
September, 1849-of whom William L. Flitner was one, constituted the lumber company, each individual taking one share,
not to exceed in'value five hundred dollars, with the exception
of Flitner, who took two shares, and hicks and Bailey also

SUPREME COUIRT.
Grant et al. v. Poillon et al.

took two. That Flitner was the agent of the company and
the consignee, a commission of five per cent. to be paid to him;
that the ship Constellation belonged to the libellants, and that
Flitner was master and part owner; that the lumber company
purchased the cargo, and it was shipped the 12th November,
1849, and a bill of lading was signed by Flitner.
The proof shows that the lumber was sold at San Francisco
fbr the prices stated, and that the proceeds of the sale, after
deducting commissions, fell short of paying the freight, the
sum named.
The principal question is, whether the case made is within
the admiralty jurisdiction. That it would not be within the
admiralty jurisdiction in England is clear. In general, contracts upon land, though to be executed on the sea, and contracts at sea, if to be executed on the land, are not cognizable
by the English admiralty. There are some exceptions to this
rule in that country; but none, it is believed, which affect the
question now before us. There are conflicting decisions as to
the admiralty jurisdiction in England, and also in this country.
It may be difficult, if not impracticable, to state with precision
the line of this jurisdiction, but we may approximate it by
consulting the decisions of our own courts.
In the case of Willard v. Dorr, 3 Mason, 91, it was held,
"no suit for services performed by the master, as a factor, or in
ty other character than that of master, is cognizable in the
adiiralty." And again, in Plummer v. Will, 4 Mason C. R.,
380, it was said, "a contract of a special nature is not cognizable
in the admiralty, merely because the consideration of the contract is maritime. The whole contract must, in its essence,
be maritime, or for compensation for maritime service." In
11 Peters, the Steamboat Orleans v. Phcobus, it was said the admiralty has no jurisdiction in matters of account between part
owners. And, further, "the jurisdiction of courts of admiralty,
in case of part owners, having unequal interests and shares, is
not, and never has been, applied to direct a sale upon any dispute between them as to the trade and navigation of the ship
engaged in maritime voyages, properlv so called." (Tb.)
'The jurisdiction of courts of admiralty is limited, in matters
of contract, to those, and to those only, which are maritime.
(lb.)
An agreement by tei master of a vessel to pay wages, may
be sued upon in the admiralty; but a stipnlation in the same
contract to pay a sum of money in case the voyage should be
altered or discontinued, can be enforced oniy at common law.
(L. Arira v. Mlanwaring, Bee's Rep., 199.) The admiralty jurisdiction of the District Courts of the United States, being ex-

•DECEM_BER TER.M, 1857.

169

Grantet al. v. Poillon el al.

elusive, cannot be extended to cases of law or equity, cogmizkble by the Cif-cuit and State courts, under the 11th section of
the judiciary act. (1 Baldwin, 554.)
A contract between two persons, one of whom had chartered
a vessel, whereby he was to act as master, and the other as
mate of the vessel, and the two were to share equally in the
profits of the contemplated voyages, was held not to be within
the admiralty jurisdiction. (The Crusader, Ware's Rep., 437.)
A distribution cannot be claimed in the admiralty, except by
those who have a lien. (1 Pet. Ad., 223.)
The lumber company was formed to engage in an enterprise
of shipping lumber to San Francisco. Twelve shares were
taken by the company, consisting of ten persons, each having
one share of the value of five hundred dollars, and two of them
had two shares each, one of them being the master of the vessel. He was also a part owner of the vessel, the consignee of
the cargo, and had a right of primage. As part owner of the
vessel, he was entitled to his share of freight; and as being a
member of the lumber company, having two shares in it, he
was proportionately liable for the freight. In his capacity of
master he was entitled to prinao'e, and as consignee he was
also entitled to compensation. 1ow, this individual, in interest, is both plaintiff and respondent, and has claims in his
capacities of master, consignee, and agent. The proceeds of
the sale of the cargo, after paying commissions, left a balance
due for freight of $2,449.09.
Here is a complicated account to adjust, apportioning the
loss between the members of the lumber company, exacting
from them what may be necessary, not only to pay the balance
of freight due, but whatever may be required to discharge
what may be due to the master as part owner of the ship, as
master, consignee, or agent, at the same time holding him
liable, as having two shares in the lumber company. And in
an enterprise in which the whole of the capital has been sunk,
leaving a large sum due for freight, it would seem thai some
inquiry might reasonably be made into the conduct of the
master in the various capacities in which he acted. And it is
probable that, to settle the controversy, a procedure against
the members of the lumber company may become necessary, to compel them to contribute respectively and equally
what may be fiecessary .to meet the exigency. It is clear
that the exercise of" the powers indicated do not belong
to a court of admiralty, but are appropriate to a court o
chancery.
The decree of the Circuit Court is affirmed, with costs.

