SUPREME COURT.
"Wadev. Leroy et al.

rected. The divestiture of the title by the Government can
only be accomplished in the mode authorized by law.
It is desirable that points of exceptions and instructions
asked from the court to the jury should be as few and as concisely expressed as may be consistent with the interests of the
respective parties.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is reversed, and the cause
remanded for further proceedings.

AMos WADE,

PLAINTIFF, v. JACOB R. LEROY AND HENRY
PIERREPOINT.

E.

In an action against the owners of a ferry boat, for personal injuries sustained by
the negligence of its officers, it was held that the plaintiff might show that he
was engaged in a particular business, and had been incapacitated from attending
to it, as exhibiting the extent of the injury, and that it had occasioned expense,
suffering, and loss of time which had value to him, although the nature of his
occupation was not set forth in the declaration.

THIs case came up from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the southern district of New York, on a certificate
of division in opinion between the judges thereof.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

It was argued by Mr. Gillet for the plaintiff, on which side
there was also filed a brief of Mr. Reed, and by Mr. O'Connor
for the defendants, on which side there was also a brief of
Mr. Silliman.
The following notice of the points made by the counsel for
the plaintiff is taken from the brief of Mr. Gillet:
POINTS.

FIRST.- Under the averments in the declaration, the plaintiff had

a lawful right to prove that he was engaged in business, its character
and extent.
The amount of damages sustained by the plaintiff essentially
depended upon Questions, whether the plaintiff was engaged
in business, its peculiar character, and the extent of it.
The plaintiff would suffer more damage if deprived of a
good business, than if he had none to lose.
Its character might be such that he could not attend to it at
all, or only partially so, after his injury.
If his business was large, so as to require health, strength,
and talents, he would lose more than if it were small, and

" DEOEMBER TERM, 1857.

85

Wade v. Leroy et a.

easily attended to. He could hire a substitute to attend to the
latter for a less sum than he could to transact -the former.
The evidence offered was clearly admissible for these purposes, and went to show the damage actually sustained. If
the plaintiff's business had been that of a day laborer, who
could only earn a dollar per day, his actual loss would be far
less than if he had been earning ten.- If he had been employed on wages, the injury could have been ascertained by
proving the compensation he received.
When engaged in his own business, the extent of his,loss
could only be ascertained by proving the nature and extent
of his business, so as. to show how much his services were
actually worth to himself. If his business were small, and
easily managed, the damage would be less than if it were large,
and managed with difficulty. The manager of a large plantation would sustain more damage by loss of his time than the
manager of A small patch of land. A lawyer earning ten thousand dollars per annum would sustain a greater loss in being
rendered unfit for business, than would a pettifogger who
could only earn a hundred or two.
SE oND.-Future ae well as present losses may be considered in
estimating damages.
When a party loses a'leg or arm, in estimating his real loss,
we look to his probable future under the state of his injury, to
form an opinion of the damages he has sustained. If the injury is temporary, the damages will be far less than if lasting
and permanent. A flesh wound will soon. heal, but a lost
limb cannot be restored; both should, however, be considered
in estimating the damages sustained-the loss of a limb will
be continually felt as long as the party losing shall live, and
hence a young person will sustain a greater injury than one
whose life is nearly ended. If the mind is destroyed, the losg
to a young man, who is supposed to have more years before
him than an old one, is much greater than with one whose
years are drawing to a close. It follows, that the probable
future of the injured party is a proper subject of consideration.
THnMD.-The damage alleged in the declaration was special, as
distinguishedfrom particulardamage.
Particular damage is where the particular instance of damage is avowed; special damage is where the loss follows from
a specific statement of' a fact, which generally or naturally results from the statement, as a cause competent to entail such a
consequence.
The declaration avers that the injury affected the plaintiff's,
brain, and affected his memory andI understanding, whieh',
were impaired thereby; and that he lost his sense of hearing;

86

SUPREME COURT.
Wade v. Leroy et al.

and that be would hereafter suffer much mental and bodily
pain and anguish, as well as personal mortification. The
damages so specified were special, but not particular-the
averment is, that they resulted from the injury. If the injury
complained of affected and iinjured his brain, and impaired his
understanding, and he lost his sense of hearing, a necessary
and natural consequence was, that he was incompetent to attend to any business, and especially such as that in which he
was engaged.
A man who could not hear, and whose brain was injured
and affected, and his memory and understanding injured and
impaired, was not competent to pursue the business in which
the plaintiff was engaged, even though he might have been
able to attend to some kinds of business, like tending a porter's lodge, where very little memory or understanding is required. If the plaintiff were not permitted to prove these consequences, necessarily resulting from facts specifically avowed,
then he would be debarred presenting a very essential part of
his case, and would be prevented from recovering the whole
amount of damages actually sustained. This would occasion
gross injustice. When a person is made deaf, his memory and
understanding injured and impaired, it is hardly possible that
any pecuniary damage can make him good: he cannot be fit
for business; he can do nothing and earn nothing in his business, if it should require the exercise of hearing, or memory,
or understanding. Aside from the pecuniary consequences
resulting from such an injury, his life must be one both monotonous and irksome, and almost wholly destitute of those
pleasures and that happiness which those in full health, bodily
and mentally, must ever enjoy.
. FOURTH.- When the action can be maintained without specifying
any particulardamage, it is not necessary to aver any particularinstance of damage.
When the law implies damage, there can be no reason for
stating it with particularity. If a person loses an eye, an ear,
a limb, or his general health, the law implies damage, the same
as if deprived of his property or any other legal right. Words
actionable in themselves imply damage, and none need be
proved; but if actionable only by reason of some consequence which might or might not follow, then the particular
damage must be averred and proved. The loss of hearing, of
memory, and understanding, imply injury, and necessarily and
naturally result therefrom, and no particular damage need be
averred or proved. This change in the condition of a person
cannot be made without producing injury to him in his pecuniary circumstances and in his enjoyments. Such an injury

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

1 37

Wade v. Leroy et aL

would lessen, if not destroy, his ability to maintain and support
his family by'his own exertions.
It required no averment in the declaration to apprise the
defendant that such consequences mustresult from the injuries
specified. They are so necessary and natural that no one could
mistake them. Every common understanding must arrive at
the same conclusion.
FIFT..- The evidence offered tended to prove necessary andnatural injurious consequences arising from the injury to the plaintiff,
wiithin the settled rules of law.
The courts have furnished precedents that clearly sustain
the offer of the plaintiff below, and so do the elementary
writers. Mfayne on Damages, the latest and best English writer,
says :
"Special damage must always be "exTressly averred and
proved, when it is so much the gist of the action, that without
it no suit could be maintained." -- P. 314.
"It is not, however, necessary to state or establish particular
instances of damage."-P. 315.
"In all other cases, whether the action be on contract, or in
tort, if the facts involve a legal injury, no actual damage need
be stated."-P. 15.
"In contracts, too, there are certain damages which the law
will presume; as, for instance, in an action for not delivering
goods; that the plaintiff had to buy others at a loss. -'*. *

*

The extent of the loss must be proved; but no notice need be
given of the species of loss which will be set up. But it is
different where the injury complained of is merely secondary
and consequential damage."-?. 316...
.
"In an action for slandering a man in his trade, when the
declaration alleges that he thereby lost his trade, he may show
a general damage to his trade, though he cannot give evidence
of particular instances."-P. 317.
,
"So if one, not a carpenter, sell timber which the purchaser
uses to prop up his building, and, by reason of the timber being
defective, the building fall and be destroyed, if the seller acted
in good faith; and was ignorant of the defect, he will only be
liabie for the difference in price between good timber and that
sold. If, however, the seller was a carpenter, who sold the
timber for the express purpose of propping up the house, then
he shall be liable for all the damage done to the building."Sedgwick on -Damages,65.
ie quotes from Chitty, at p. 575, where the rule is laid-down
as in the decisions I have copied.
These views are sustained by various decisions.-Dewint v.
Willse, 9 Wen., 325.

38

SUPRE-ME COURT.
"Trade v. Leroy et al.

Defendant hired plaintiff's ferry, and covenanted to maintain and keep the same in good order; but, instead of doing
so, he diverted travellers from the usual landing to another
landing, owned by himself, by means of which a tavern stand,
belonging to the plaintiff; situated at his landing, was so reduced in business as to become tenantless. It was held that
the plaintiff could recover. The court determined that the
damages proved were a legitimate claim, and the legal and
natural consequence of the breach of the covenant.
Dickinson v. Boyle, 17 Pick., 78, 79:
"Where the act complained of is admitted to have been done
with force, and to constitute a proper ground for an action of
trespass vi et armis, all the damage to the plaintiff, of which
such injurious act was the efficient cause, and for which the
plaintiff is entitled to recover in any form, may be recovered in
such action, although in point of time such damage did not
occur until some time after the act done.
"Where special or peculiar damages are claimed, such as
are not the usual or natural consequences of the act done, it
is proper to set them forth specially in the declaration, by way of
aggravation,that the defendant may have due notice of the claim."
Squier v. Gould, 14 Wen., 159, 160:
"Where the damages actually sustained do not necessarily
arise from the act complained of, and consequently are not
implied by law, in order to .prevent surprise to the defendant,
the plaintiff must state in his declaration the particular damage
which he has sustained, or he will not be permitted to give
evidence of it upon the trial."
Vanderslice v. Newton, 4 Comst., 130, 132:
Towing a boat from New York to Albany, or as far as it
could but for the ice.
"With respect to the damages, the general rule in questions
of this nature is, that the plaintiff is entitled to recover, as a
recompense for his injury, all the damages which are the natural and proximate consequence of the act complained of, (2
Greenl. Ev., § 256.) Those which necessarily result from the
injury are termed general damages, and may be shown under
the general allegation of damages at the end of the declaration.
But such damages as are the natural, although not the necessary, result of the injury, are termed special damages, and must
be stated in the declaration, to prevent surprise upon the defendant; and being so stated, may be recovered."
Ward v. Smith, 11 Price, Exch. R., 19.-(Eng. Exc. R., 19:)
Suit in assumpsit for not performing an agreement to let
the plaintiff into the possession of certain apartments and furniture.

•DECEM

ER TERM, 185T-

Wade v. Leroy et al.

The plaintiff proved that his wife was a milliner, and lost
business in the best part of the season by not being permitted
to take possession.
"A plaintiffin- such an action may give evidence by particular loss sustained by breach of such an agreement, if he have
stated loss generally in his declaration. Therefore, evidence
of loss of business by plaintiff's wife in her trade of milliner
held admissible, in such a case, as evidence of general damage,
where no special damage on that ground was laid in the declaration, nor any customers named, nor, any averment of her
business introduced."
Baron Graham expressed himself fully upon this point.
Hutchinson v. Granger, 18 Vt., 886:
"CGeneral damage, or such as is the conmmon or ordinary
consequence of the act complained of, nieed not, be specially
alleged in the declaration; and if some portion of the plaintiff's
general damages be alleged, this will'not preclude him from
giving evidence of other general damage.
"In actions for flowing land, the injury, i. e., the flowing the
land, and the means by which it was done, must be substantially alleged; but any general damage, such as rendering the land
wet and unproductive, and more difficult to cultivate, and destroying crops, either in the process of growth or harvesting,
need not be alleged."
Lincoln v. Saratoga and Schenectady Railroad Company, 28
Wen., 425:
Suit by passenger for injury to his person, when travelling
upon defendant's road. Nelson, J.
Opinions as to the value of plaintiff's time had been given
in evidence, and new trial granted on that account.
"Even with the jury, the damage beyond-actual expenses at
best rise but little above conjecture; it is so-in every case where
they are called upon to estimate the loss of the plaintiff's time.
How serviceable it might -hare been to him, depends upona
calculation of the changes and vicissitudes of life, the casualties and fluctuations of business, utterly beyond the reach of
human foresight. The most they can do is to bring to the
discharge of their duties a careful and diligent consideration
of the particular case, a knowledge and experience of the general condition and business affairs of mankind, to which all
are more or less subject, a sound and enlightened judgment,
and honest desire to arrive at truth and justice between the
parties. No more can be expected; no less, justified. The
result will usually be an approximation to reasonable indemnity, as near as the interpretation of human tribunals will
admit.

40

SUPREME COURT.
Wade v. Leroy et al.

"I am also of opinion that some of the questions put in
respect to the effect of the injury to the limb were pushed into
consequences and conjectures too remote for the subject of
judicial investigation. The present and probable future condition of it were proper matters for inquiry; but the consequences of a hypothetical second fracture were obviously beyond
the range of it, and calculated to draw the mind of the jury
into fanciful conjectures."
Driggs v. Dwight, 17 Wen., 71:
" here a party agrees to demise certain premises to another,
who breaks up his establishment, and proceeds with his family
and furniture to the place where the premises are situate, and
the landlord kefuses to give possession, the tenant is entitled to
recover the damages sustained by him by such removal of his

family and furniture, although special damage is not alleged
:n the declaration."
The English cases sustaining the principles contended for
are referred to in Mayne on Damages, at the pages referred to
in that work.
Mr. Sillinan and Mfr. O'Connor made the following points:
Pirst Point.-Assuming, for the sake of the argument, that a
person suffering a personal injury which disqualifies him from
prosecuting a particular business in which he is engaged, may
recover in an action ex contraclu or ex delieto brought against
the party from whose willfulness or negligence such injury
resulted, the value of the employment thus lost, or that, in
some more loose or general way, the nature of such business
may be taken into consideration by the jury in estimating damages, then it is submitted that the established rules of pleading
and evidence require, as an indispensable condition to the admission of proof, that the business and the fact of its loss be
particularly set forth in the declaration.
I. Under a general allegation of damage, the plaintiff'can
only recover general damages. General damages are such as
necessarilyresult from the injury alleged under the circumstances
set forth. These the law presumes, and they need not be alleged with any particularity, nor even proved.
II. Special damages are such as result from some cause not
notified to the defendant by the very description of the injury
complained of, as necessarily resulting from it. Any fact
which rendered it more hurtful to the plaintiff than it would
have been to any other person, under the same circumstances
set forth, is a special damage; and, consequently, it cannot be
given in evidence, unless specially setforth in the declaration.
The object of this rule is to prevent surprise. (1 Chitty's Plead-

DECEM3ER TERM, 1857.

41

Wade v. Leroy et al.

ings, pp. 395, 896, 397, 398; 2 Greenleaf's Ev., §§ 254, 278, and
notes; Sedgwick on Damages, 2d edition, p. 575.)
III. This rule is of universal application. :No case has been
found, nor any dictum of an elementary writer, recognising
any distinction, in this respect, between actions ex daicto and
actions ex contractu, or between the different forms of action,
or between the various causes of action. (8 Bouvier's Institutes, § 2872; J. S. Saunders's Pleadings and Ev., 136, 800;
ib., 83, 105, 151, 906, 344; ib., 865, 520, 653,'660; Pettit v.
Addington, Peake's N. P. Cases, 63; Lowden v. Goodrich, ib.,
46;W estwood v. Cowne, 1 Starkie's R., 172; Bodlcy v. Reynolds, 8 Ad. and Ellis, 780; Boyden v. Burke, 14 I-low., 575;
Kendall v. Stokes, 3 How., -87, 90, 102; Strang v. Whitehead,
12 Wend., 65; Pritchett v. Bovey, 1 Cr. and MNeeson, 178;
Jones v. Lewis, 9 Dowlings Pr. Cases, 150; Richardson v.
Chasen, 10 Ad. and Ellis, N. S., 756, 759; Patten v. Libby, 32
Maine, 378; Vanderslice v. Newton, 4 Cohistock R,, 132, 138;
Dumont v. Smith, 4 Denio, 322; Alston v. Huggins, 3 Brevard,
188; Dickinson v. Boyle, 17 Pick., 79; Furlong v. Polleys, 30
Maine, 493; Lewis v. Calder, 8 Burr. Penn. Rep., 479; Boo-art v.
Burkhalter, 2 Barbours S. 0. R., 525; Squier v. Gold, 14
Wend., 160.)
IV. In slander and libel, when the action lies only by reason that the defamatory matter complained of touched the
plaintiff in some particular office, employment, or relation, the
averment of that office, &c., is not called by pleaders an averment of special damages. It is a part of the cause of action;
but being notified to the defendant, it may be proved, and, of
course, may have its just weight with the jury. Here there is
no danger of surprise. (Ingram v. Lawson, 6 Bingh. N. C.,
212; ib., 8 Scott, 775; 9 Carr and Payne, 326; 1 Selden' sN.
Y. Rep., 20; Donnell v. Jones, 17 -labama, 692 to 695 5. C.,
13 Alab. R., 509, 510; Delegall v. Righley, 8 Carr and Payne,
444; Rollin v. Stewart, 25 Eng. L. and Eq. R., 345.)
V. In cases of defamation, where the matter is not actionable generally, nor actionable so as to give a right to general
damage, by reason of its touching the plaintiff in his particular
office, employment, &c., the plaintiff is obliged to aver in his
declaration the special damage on which he relies, and to prove
it at the trial. All the adjudications arising under this lead
in our law, whether on demurrer, or in arrest of jud.ifent, or
for variance at the trial, are so many illustrations of tRe rule
contended for in this point. (Malachi v. Soper, 3 Binglh. N.
C., 371.)
Second Point.-As the defendants, on being charged with
the injury alleged in the declaration, could not learn, from

42

SUPREME COURT.
Wade v. Leroy et al.

nything in the narrative of its occurrence and consequences,
that the plaintiff was connected with a particular business carried on in North Carolina, it would be a great surprise upon
them to allow evidence of that fact. Therefore, the evidence
mentioned in the first division should be excluded.
I. There is nothing on this subject contained in the declaration, which, according to the precedents and authorities, could
be otherwise regarded than as a general averment that the
plaintiff was disabled by his hurt. (Rogers v. Nowill, 11 Jurist,
1039; Malachi v. Soper, 3 Bingh. N. C., 371; 1 Strange, 666;
W. Jones, 196; Buller's N. P., 7; 1 Sid., 396; 1 Saunders's
R., 346; Linden v. Graham, 1 Duer, 670.) For proper pleading, see Collet v. Loud. and N. W. Railway Co., 6 Eng. L.
and Eq., 305; Brewer v. Drew, 11 M. and Welsby, 626, 630;
Hodsoll v. Stallbrass, 9 Car. and Payne, 63.
H.-There was no difficulty in stating in the declaration the
special Consequential injury offered to be proven. It was not
a violation of decency to place it on the record; it did not tend
to burdensome prolixity; it was known to the plaintiff, and
quite susceptible of being accurately described by him. There
was, consequently, no excuse for its suppression. (2 Williams's
Saunders, 411, note 4, 8 T. R., 133; 1 Starkie's R., 172; Lowden v. Goodrich, Peake's N. P. Cases, 46; 2 Greenleaf's Ev.,
§ 278; Per Kenyon, L. Ch. J., 8 T. R.., 133.) Anomalous
Cases. (Driggs v. Dwight, 17 Wend., 71; Ward v. Smith, 11
Price, 19; See Tullidge v. Wade, 3 Wrils., 19.)
IIT. This evidence is the more objectionable, if unaccompanied by any proof of the particular value of this large and extensive business of distilling and manufacturing turpentine, in
which the plaintiff was engaged. If such evidence must be
admitted, it would be much fairer to admit it with particular
and certain proof of the value of the business, than in a vague,
loose, and indefinite form. Far better that the defendants
should be tried without notice, on evidence appealing to the
judgment of the jury, than on an inflated address to their
imaginations. (Fairman v. Fluck, 5 Watts, 518.)
Thrd .Point.-Evidence that the injury would permanently
disqualify the plaintiff from pursuing any business, was objectionale in a twofold point of view. In the first place, the
declaration does not affirmatively allege that the injury would
produce any such result, or that the defendant was a person
engaged in any business; and secondly, inasmuch as in speaking of bodily pain, &c., the declaration has affuture aspect, and
the general allegation of consequent incapacity to attend to
affairs is confined to the past; the idea of any probable future
incapacity is impliedly negatived. The point involved in the

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

48

Wade v. Leroy et at.

second division ought therefore to be certified in favor of the
defendants. (Hodsoll v. Stallbrass, 9 C. and Payne, 68; S. C.,
8 Perry and Davison, 200; Thompson v. Wood, 4 Ad. and
Ellis, N. S., 497.)
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court..'
This case comes :efore this court upon a certificate of the
judges of the Circuit Court of the United States for the southern district of New York, of their division in opinion upon
questions arising in the trial of the cause in that court.
It is an action against thb owners of a steam ferry boat, plying between the cities of New York and Brooklyn, for the
transportation of passengers, by the plaintifi, a passenger, who
suffered an injury in consequence of a collision between two"
boats belonging to the defendants, and Which was attributable
to the Tismanagement of the servants, and agents to whom.
their navigation was intrusted.
The declaration charges, that the plaintiff was wounded on
-the head by a blow from a piece of iron that had been broken
off the boat on which he was a passenger, in the collision, and,
thrown against him. That, in consequence of the wound, his
brain was affected and injured, so that his understanding and
memory were impaired. That for some time he was insensible, and his life despaired of; and before -his recovery, he suffered much mental and bodily pain. That he was detained in
New YorI, at a distance from his home, ahd subjected to'much
expense about his care, support, and maintenance, ana had
been hindered and prevented for a long period from transacting and attending to his necessary and lawful affairs, by him
during all that time to be performed and transacted; and lost

and was deprived of great gains, profits, and advantages,
which he might and otherwise would have derived and acquired..,
The plea was the general issue.
Upon the trial, the plaintiff okered'to prove, "that before
and up to and. 'at the time of the alleged injury, the particular
business in which he was engaged was that of a distiller and
manufacturer of turpentine,. and that he was ol rgely and extensively engaged' in that business." The plaintiff also'offered
"to prove, by aphysilcian who had attended the plaintiff, that.
when the plaintiff, after his convalescence, left lNew York to
return to North Carolina; he (plaintiff) could not safely attend
to any business 'or occupation, and that the 'witness deemed it
imprudent and indiscreet for the plaintiff thenceforth to devote
himself to any business." To this evidence the defendants

44

SUPREME COURT.
Wade v. Leroy et al.

counsel objected, on the ground that the declaration of the
plaintiff did not contain any specification of such business, or
of its nature or extent, or contain any statement that the plaintiff was obliged or did relinquish or abandon the same. The
judges were divided in opinion as to the admissibility of such
evidence, and have certified the questions for the decision of
this court.
The precise object for which this evidence was adduced is
not stated in the certificate of the judges; but if the evidence
tends to support any issue between the parties, or has a direct
connection with other evidence competent to maintain the
averments of the declaration, either to illustrate its meaning
or to ascertain its probative effect, it cannot be rejected as impertinent, or as founded upon matter that does not appear in
the pleadings of the cause: The evidence objected to conduces
to prove that the plaintiff was seriously injured; that he had
been confined in New York, at a distance from his home, and
had incurred expense in consequence. That, before that time,
he had been concerned in conducting a business that required
a degree of mental and bodily vigor, and that his time was of
some pecuniary value; or, that he had suffered. a loss of some
profit; and that, after some detention in New York, he had
returned to his house in an infirm condition-so infirm that
his medical attendant and adviser deemed him incapable of
pursuing any ordinary business or occupation, and had advised
him to abstain from personal exertion.
This evidence would certainly assist a jury to determine
that the plaintiff had sustained an injury of no slight character-an injury to his person, and which was followed by expense,
suffering, and loss of time, which had for him a pecuniary

value.

. These were the direct and necessary consequences
of the injury, and sustained strictly and almost exclusively as an effect
from it. This evidence may have an application without any
inquiry into any remote or contingent consequences which
could not have been foreseen, or which were peculiar to the
circumstances or condition of the plaintiff. The record does
not inform us that the evidence was designed to aid in such
irrelevant inquiries, and we cannot presume that, if admitted,
the court would allow any misconstruction of its legal import,
or any use of it by the jury, contrary to law.
The opinion of the court is, that the evidence is competent,
and we direct that the certificate to the Circuit Court shall be
made accordingly.

