252

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Breitling.

THE UNITED

STATES,

PLAINTIFF

IN ERROR,

v.

GOTLIEB

BREITLING.

The Circuit Court of the United States in Alabama, by a general rule, adopted the
practice of the State courts, which is regulated by a statute providing that no
bill of exceptions can be signed after the adjournment of the court, unless with
the consent of counsel, &c.
But where a judge holding the Circuit Court in Alabama signed a bill of exceptions
under special circumstances, after adjournment, and without the consent of counsel, this court will consider the exception as properly before it. It is in the
power of a court to suspend its own rules, or except a particular case from them,
to subserve the purposes of justice.
And the signature of the judge was attached to the bill, in conformity with the decisions of this court.
The exception brings up the charge of the court to the jury, but not the admission
of evidence which was objected to on the trial, but to the admission of which no
exception was noted.
The charge of the court, being founded on a hypothetical state of facts of which
there was no evidence, was erroneous.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the southern district of Alabama.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was submitted on printed arguments by 32r!. Black (Attorney General) for the United States, and i1.r. Percy Walker for
the defendant.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the
court.

This action was brought by the United States against the
defendant in error, as one of the sureties in the official bond
of David E. Moore, who was receiver of the public moneys at
Demopolis, in the State of Alabama. Under the instructions
given by the court to the jury, the verdict and judgment were
in favor of the defendant.
A bill of exceptions to these instructions, signed and sealed
by the judge who tried the case, is set forth in the transcript.
But the defendant contends that the exception was not taken
by the United States according to law and the rules and practice of the Circuit Court, and that it cannot therefore be regarded as a part of the record of the proceedings in that court,
nor considered here in revising its judgment.
A brief extract from the exceptions, together with the note
attached to it by the judge, will show how this question arises.
After setting forth the bond and the testimony of several
witnesses, examined on the part of the defendant, the exception proceeds in the following words:
"The defendant then offered to read in evidence the deposi-

DECE-MBER TERM, 1857.

253

United States v. Breitling.

tions above referred to, when the plaintiff's counsel objected
to the reading of the depositions of McDowell, W. H. Roberts,
and George G. Lyon, as they were severally offered, which objection the court overruled. The plaintiff's counsel objected
to the evidence of D. 0. Anderson, who was examined as a itness by defendant, whose evidence went to show that Smith,
one of the obligors to the bond, was poor and in straitened
circumstances, which objection was overruled. This, together
with the depositions above referred to, was all the evidence
offered by defendant, and the same having been submitted to
the jury, and argued by counsel, the court, at the request of
the defendant's attorneys, charged the-jury, 'that if the jury
believe, from the evidence, that at the time Breitling's name
was signed to the bond, it was understood and intended that
other persons were to sign it as obligors, and he was to have
notice that they did so, and who they were, and then, if satisfied, was to acknowledge the bond in the presence of witnesses,
who were to attest it, and if this was not done, and the bond
was not afterwards ratified by him, the jury ought to find for'
the defendant;' to which charge the plaintiff's counsel excepted.
"And the judge therefore signs and seals their bill of exceptions, this 15th day of May, 1856, a day after the adjournment
of the court.
JOHN GAYLE, [seal.]"
_Expanations attachedto the Bill 'fExceptions.,
"During the term of the court, the attorney for the Umted
States presented a bill of exceptions. The bill was presented
on Saturday before the court adjourned, which was on Wednesday. On Monday morning, the bill was handed to the United
States attorney, with the request that he submit it to the opposing counsel., On the third day after this, the minutes were
signea, and the court adjourned.
"I heard nothing further from the bill till the 9th or 10th
May, when it was presented by the plaintiff's attorney again,
with the written objections of the attorneys of the defendant,
that it should be signed after the adjournment. The clerk
will subjoin this e planation to the bill of exceptions.
"JOHN GAYLE."

"Filed 15th May, 1856."
The objection stated in the note is founded upon a rule of
the CQrcuit Court, which in general terms adopts the practice
of the State courts; and the practice of the State courts, in
relation to exceptions, is regulated by a law of the State, which

SUPREME COURT.
United State, v. Breitling.

provides that no bill of exceptions can be signed after the adjournment of the court during which the exception is taken,
unless by consent of counsel in writing, when it may be signed
within ten days thereafter, except in such cases as is otherwise
provided'.
But the answer to this olijection is, that the statute of Alabama, and the regulation it prescribes to the courts of the
State, can have no influence on the practice of a court of the
United States, unless adopted by a rule of the court. And it
is always in the power of the court to suspend its own rules, or
to except a particular case -from its operation,- whenever the
purposes of justice require it.

The attention of this court has,

upon several occasions, been called to this subject, and the
rule established by its decisions will be found to be this: the
exception must show that it was taken and reserved by the
party at the trial, but it fnay be drawn out in form and sealed
by the judge afterwards. This point was directly decided in
the case of Phelps v. Nfayor. 15 How., 260; and again, in
Turner v. Yates, 16 How., 28. And the time within which it
may be drawn out and preuted to the court, must depend on
its rules and practice, and on its own judicial discretion. In
the case before us, the judge who tried the case has deemed it
his duty to seal and certify the exception to this court; and
under the circumstances stated in the exception and the note,
we think he was right in doing so, and that this exception is
legally before this court as a part of'the record of the proceedings of the court below.
In proceeding to examine the points raised upon it and argued in this court,it is not necessary to state at large the testimony given by the witnesses fbr the defendant, nor the grounds
upon which the United States objects to the admissibility of
the evidence; for it does not appear that the plaintiff excepted
to any one of the decisions of the court overruling his objections. The exception states that he made the objections which
have been argued here, and that -the court overruled them.
But the fact that he made the point at the trial; and the court
decided it against him, is not sufficient to bring the question

before this court.

lie must show that he excepted to the

opinion. And as there is no evidence that he did so while the
jury were at the bar, the objections to the testimony of the
witnesses are not before us.
It is otherwise, however, in relation to the cbdrge of the court
to the jury. This, it appears, was excepted to, and conse-

quently is regularly and legally before this court, and we think

the judge erred in giving it.
It is clearly error in a court to charge a jury upon a supposed

DECE-BER TERM, 1857.
Hemmenway v. Fisher.

or conjectural state of facts, of which no evidence has been
offered. The instruction presupposes that there is some evidence before the jury which they may think sufficient to establish the facts hypothetically assumed in the opinion of th3
court; and if there is no evidence which they have a right to
consider, then the charge does not aid them in coming to correct conclusions, but its tendency is to embarrass and mislead
them. It may induce them to indulge in conjectures, instead
of weighing the testimony.
In the case before us, we do not see any evidence in the record which tends, in the least degree, to prove any one of the
facts hypothetically assumed in-the opinion. If such testimony
was given, it certainly does not appear in the transcript. And
upon this ground, without examining further into the opinion
of the court below, the judgment mutst be reversed.

AUGUSTUS HEM IENWAY, CLAIMANT OF THE SHiP LNDEPENDENCE,
V. WILLIAM B. FISHER.
Where a judgment of the Circuit Court, sitting in admiralty, was affirmed here by
a divided court, interest was not to be calculated upon the judgment.
The eighteenth rule of this court never applied to cases in admiralty which are
brought up by appeal, and the rule itself is repealed by the sixty-second rule.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of Massachusetts, sitting in admiralty.
It was argued at the preceding term of this court by Lfr.
Loring for the appellant, and Mr. Bartlett and Mr. Thaxter for
the appellee. The judgment of the Circuit Court was affirmed'
by a divided court, and a mandate was issued for the amount
named in such judgment, but no interest was mentioned, as
ndne was giv.en in the judgment of the Circuit Court. The
mandate was not filed in the Circuit Court, and at the present
term Mr. Bartlett made the following motion, which was argued
by Arr. Gillett:
And now the appellee moves to amend the "judgment rendered in this cause at the December term of this court, in the
year of our Lord 1856, by giving to the appellants damages
on the decree of the Circuit Court, at the rate of six per centum
per annum, and that the judgment be so reformed, and for
cause shows1st. That the mandate in said cause, though issued, has never
been presented to the Circuit Court, and is now returned herewith, and filed with the clerk.

