DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

383

Goodman v. Simonds.

and that it must create a revolution in the admiralty administration of the courts of the United States; that the change will
produce heart-burning and discontent, and involve collisions
with State Legislatures and State jurisdictions. And, finally,
it is a violation of the rights reserved in the Constitution of
the United States to the'States and the people.

TIMOTHY S. GOODMAN,

PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JOHN SIMONS.

Where an accepted and endorsed bill of exchange was placed by the drawer as
collateral security for his own debt in the hands of his creditor, and when the
creditor came to sue the acceptor, the court instructed the jury, "that if such2
facts and circumstances were known to the plaintiff as caused him to suspect, or
that would have caused one of ordinary prudence to suspect, that the drawer had
no interest in the bill, and no authority to use the same for his own benefit, and
by ordinary diligence he could have ascertained these facts," then the jury would
find for the defendant-this instruction was erroneous.
The facts of the case examined, to ascertain whether or not there was sufficient
evidence to go to the jury upon these points.
This court again says, that a bonafide holder of a negotiable instrument for a valuable consideration, without notice of facts which impeach its validity between
the antecedent parties, if he takes it under an endorsement made before the same
becomes due, holds the title unaffected by these facts, and may recover thereon,
although as between the antecedent parties the transaction may be without any
legal valldity.
Where a party is in possession of a negotiable instrument, the presumption is that
he holds it for value, and the burden of proof is upon him who disputes it; an
exception being where the defect appears on the face of the instrument.
Itis a question of fact for the jury, whether or not the holder had knowledge-of
defects existing antecedently to the transfer to him.
The English and American cases examined.
Surrendering collateral securities previously given, and affording increased indulgence as to time, furnish a sufficient consideration for the transfer of new col-"
laterals.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of Missouri.
Goodman was a citizen of Ohio, and Simonds of Missouri.
The suit was brought by Goodman, upon the following bill
of exchange:
EXCHANGE FOR $5,000.
CINCINNATI, 0., Sept. 12, 1847.
- Four months after date of this, my first of exchange, (second
unpaid,) pay to the order of John Sigerson five thousand dollars, value received, and charge the same to account.
Your ob't serv't,
WAL ACE SIGERSON.
.Mr. John Simonds, St. Louis, Mtfo.
Upon the face of the bill was written, "Accepted, John
Simonds;" and endorsed upon the same was the following:

844

SUPREME COURT.
Goodman v. Simonds.

"Pay to T. S. Goodman & Co., or order; John Sigerson."
"Pay W. Nesbit & Co., or order; T. S. Goodman & Co."
"Pay Timothy S. Goodman. without recourse to W. Nesbit
& Co."
Two of these parties, viz: John Sigerson and Simonds, lived
in St. Louis, and the other two, viz: Goodman and Wallace
Sigerson, in Cincinnati. The bill of exchange was sent from
St. Louis to Wallace Sigersonj at Cincinnati, endorsed by John
Sigerson, and accepted by Simonds, but without date, and
without the signature of the drawer.
The narrative of the transactions which led to the possession
of the bill by Goodman is given in the opinion of the court.
Upon the'trial, there were several rulings of the court, but
th one upon which the case came up to this court was the following, viz:

"-

The defendant asked the court to give the following instruction to the jury:
"The defendant moves the court to instruct: If the jury find,
from the evidence, in the cause, that Wallace Sigerson never
had any interest in the bill sued on, nor in the proceeds thereof, nor any authority to use the same for his own benefit, and
did dispose of the same for his own benefit to T. S. Goodman
& Co., and the plaintiff was at the time one of said firm, and
when the-bill was so transferred to said firm such facts and
circumstances were known to the said Goodman as caused him
to suspect, or that would have caused one of ordinary prudence
to suspect, that said Wallace had no interest in the bill, and
no authority to use the same for his own benefit."
To the giving of which by the court the plaintiff objected,
and the court gave to the jury that instruction amended so as
to read as follows:
Same instruction, as amended by the court:
"And by ordinary dilizence he could have ascertained that
said Wallace Sigerson had no interest in said bill, and no authority to use the same for his own benefit, then they will find
for the defendant." To the giving of which, as thus amended, the plaintiff objected, and excepted then and there to the giving of the same
to the jury.
Under this instruction, the jury found a verdict for the defendant, and the plaintiff brought the case up to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Pugh for the plaintiff in error, and by
Mr. Geyer for the defendant.
Mr. Pugh made the following points:

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.
Goodman v. Simondi.

I. The title of a holder of negotiable paper, acquired b6fore
it was due, for valuable consideration, is not affected by the
fraud of a prior party, in the absence of actual' notice, without
proof of bad faith on the part of the holder.
1. This was the original rule declared in England. (Miller
v. Race, 1 Bur. R., 452; Price v. Neal, 3 Bur. I.,1355; S. C.,
1 Blackstone, 390; Grant v. Vaughan, 3 Bur. R., 1516; S.0.,.
1 Blackstone, 485; Anonymous, 1 Ld. Raymond, 738; Peacock
v. Rhodes, 2 Douglas, 633; Lawson v. Weston, 4 Espinasse,
56; Morris v. Lee, 2 Raymond, 1396; S. C., 1 Strange, 629.)
2. This rule was afterwards varied, and it was declared that
the title of the holder of negotiable paper would not be protected, where it had been acquired under circumstances which
ought to have excited the suspicions of a prudent and careful
man. (Gill v. Cubitt, 3 Barn. and Cress., 466; Down v. Halling, 4 Barn. and Cress., 330; Snow v. Peacock, 2 Car. and
Payne, 215; Beckwith v. Corral, 2 Car. and Payne, 261; Snow
v. Leathern, 2 Car. and Payne, 314; Slater v. West, 3 Car. and
Payne, 325; Strange v. Wigney, 6 Bing., 677.)
3. The rule was again modified, and it was held that the want
of care, necessary to impeach the title of the holder of negotiable paper, must have been gross. (Crook v. Jadis, 5 Barn.
and Adolphus, 909; Backhouse v. Harrison, 5 Barn. and Adolphus, 1098.)
4. Finally, the original rule was restored, and it was decided
that his title would be good, unless the holder was guilty of
bad faith. Lord Denman said, "We have shaken off the last
remnant of the contrary doctrine." (Goodman v. Harvey, 4
Adolphus and Ellis, 870; Uther v. Rich, 10 Adolphus and
Ellis, 784; Arbouin v. Anderson, 1 Adolphus and Ellis, N. S.,
498; Stephens v. Foster, 1 Cromp., Mees., and Roscoe, 849;
Palmer v. Richards, 1 Eng.Law and Eq. R., 529; Marston v.
Allen, 8 Mees. and Wels., 494; Raphael v. Bank of England,
33 Eng.Law and Eq. R., 276.)
5. The rule is understood in this country according to the
latest cases in England. (Story on Bills of Exchange, 194,
416; Hull v. Wilson, 16 Barbour S. 0.R., 550; Saltmarsh v.
Tuthill, 13 Ala. R., 390.)
"Mr.
Geyer made the following points:
The decision of the Circuit Court in overruling the motion
of. the plaintiff for a new trial not being the subject of review
on a writ of error, the only questions for the consideration of
this court arise on the instructions given to the jury; and these,
the defendant submits, were quite as favorable to the plaintiff
as the law would allow.

SUPREME COURT.
Goodman v. Simonds.

I. It having been established, by the evidence at the trial,
that Wallace Sigerson, the drawer, had no interest in the bill
sued on, and no authority to use, transfer, or otherwise dispose of it for his own benefit; that he transferred it to the
plaintiff fraudulently, in violation of a special trust, the burden
devolvwd upon him to prove that he acquired the bill in good
faith, for a valuable consideration, in the usual course of trade;
failing in that, he was not entitled to recover. (Baily v.Bidwell, 13 Mees. and W., 73; Harvey v. Towers, 6 Welsby, H.
and G., p. 656; Monroe v. Cooper, 5 Pick., 412; Bipsell v. Morgan, 11 Cushing, 198; Sanford v. Norton, 14 Vermont R., 228;
Bertrand v. Barkman, 13 Ark., 150: Thompson v. Armstrong,
7 Ala. R., 256; Snyder v. Riley, 6 Barr. Pa. R., 664; -McKeeson v. Stansbury, 3 Ohio N. S., 156; Ware v. Boydell, 3 M.
and S., 148; Beltzhoover v. Blackstock, 3 Watts, 26; Vallet v.
Parker, 6 Wend., 615; Catlin v. Hanson, 1 Duer N. Y. R., 322.)
II. The bill was not transferred absolutely and unconditionally, in the usual course of trade, for a valuable consideration.
It was delivered to the plaintiff, and received by him, merely
as collateral security for an antecedent debt, the general property remaining in the drawer, not in the plaintiff; there was
no money, goods, or credit given, or liability incurred; no
security or valuable right relinquished by the plaintiff, nor any
new and distinct consideration of any kind for the transfer of
the bill. Therefore -the plaintiff was not a bona fide holder for
value as against the defendant, so as to exclude the defences
which he had against the drawer. (Jenness v. Bean, 10 N.H.
R., 266; Williams v. Little, 11 ib., 66; Coddington v. Bay, 20
Johns. R., 637; Wardell v. Howell, 9 Wend., 170; Clark v.
Eli, 2 Sandf. Ch. R., 166; White v. Springfield Bank, 1 Barb.
S. C. R., 225; Stalker v. McDonald, 6 Hill N. Y. R., 93; Petrie v. Clark, 11 Sergt. and R., 388; Jackson v. Pollock, 2
Miles Pa. R., 362; Evans v. Smith, 4 Binney, -366; Napier v.
Elam, 6 Yerg., 108; Nichol et al. v. Bate, 10 Yerg., 429; Kimbro v. Lyttle, 417; Van Wyck v. Norvell, 2 Humph. R., 192;
Prentice v. Weisinger et al., 2 Gratton, 262; Bank of Mobile
v. Hall, 6 Ala. R., 639; Andrews v. Brothers & McCoy, 8 ib.,
920; Bertrand v. Barkman, 13 Ark. R., 150; Anderson v. Long,
1 Mo. R., 365; Goodman v. Simonds, 19 Mo. R., 106.)
III. It was fully proved, and found by the jury, that the
drawer (Sigerson) never had any interest in the bill or its -proceeds, and no authority to dispose of it for his own benefit;
that, at the time of the transfer, facts and circumstances were_
known to the plaintiff which caused him to suspect,-or would
have caused a person of ordiriary prudence to suspect, the defect of the title and authority of the drawer, and that by ordi-

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

347

Goodman v. Simondi.

nary diligence he might have ascertained that the drawer had
no interest in the bill, or authority to use it for his own benefit.
The plaintiff must therefore be held to have taken the bill subject to all the defences which the defendant had against the
drawer. .(Peacock v. Rhodes, Douglass, 683; Down v. Halling,
4 B. and C., 380; 2 Car. and P., 11; Snow i. Peacock, 8 Bing.,
406; 2 C. and P., 215; Slater v. West, 3.Car.-and P., 325; Solomans v. Bank of England, 18 East, 185; Gillv. Cubitt, 4 Barn.
and C., 466; De La Chaumette v. Bank of England, 9 Barn.
and C., 208; Haynes v. Foster. 4th Tyrw., 65; Hatch v. Searles,
81 Eng. L. and E. R., 219; Ayer v. Hutchins, 4 Mass., 870;
Cone v. Bald winr, 12 Pick., 545; Hall v. Aale,.8 Con., 336;
Beltzhoover v. Blackstock, 3 Watts, 25; McKeeson v. Stansbury, 3 Ohio N. S.; Russell v. Haddock, 3 Gil. Ills., 233; Nicholson v. Patton, 13 La. R., 216; Lapice v. Clifton, 17 ib., 152;
L'Anfear v. Blosman, 1 La. An. R., 156; La. State Bank v. N.
0. Nav. 0o., 3 La. An:, 294; Fowler v. Brantly, 14 Pet., 818;
Andrews v. Pond, 13 Pet., 79.)
31r. Geyer then proceeded to review the cases and element:
ary authorities inan elaborate argument,- which would doubtless be interesting to the profession, if the reporter had room
to insert it. But he can only find space for the concluding
par't, which was as follows:
This review of the adjudged cases in England exhibits the
concurrent authority of all the decisions in bank in support of
the doctrine that the holder of a negotiable instrument, who has
taken it without reasonable caution, and under circumstances
which ought to have excited the suspicion of a prudent and
careful man that it was not good, is not protected against the
defences of prior parties. It is claimed, however, that this doctrine has been overruled by more recent decisions. (Crook v.
Jadis, 5 Bar. and Ad., 909; Backhouse v. Harrison, ib., 1098;
and Goodman v. Harvey, 4 Ad. and E., 870.) And it must be
conceded that they do in terms repudiate that d ctrine, so long
and so firmly established; but it may well be questioned
whether they are of sufficient authority to overturn it and
change the law in England, or induce the American courts to
abandon it.
The case of Crook v. Jadis was an action by an endorsee
against the drawer of an accommodation bill; it was tried at
the Iiddlesex sittings, after Michaelmas term, 1833, before
Denman, Ch. J., who told the jury to find for tle plaintiff, if
they thought he had not been guilty of gross neqligyence in taking
the bill under the circumstances given in evidence. The jury
having f6und for the plaintiff, the counsel for the deiendant
move2 for a new trial, citing Down v. Halling. The moti6n

SUPREME COURT.
Goodman v. Simonds.

was disposed of in a very summary way by the court in bank.
Denman, Ch. J., said: "I used the expression gross negligence
advisedly, because I thought nothing less ought to have prevented the plaintiff recovering on the bill." Littledale, J.,
who had approved the existing doctrine in Rothschild v. Corney et al., 9 B. and C., 388, said: "There must be gross negligence at least, in a case like the present, to deprive the party of
his right to recover on a bill of exchange." Taunton, J., said:
I think the case was properly submitted to the jury. Icannot
estimate the degree of care which a prudent man should take. The
question put by the Lord Chief Justice, whether the plaintiff
was guilty of gross negligence, was more definite and appropriate." Patteson, J., said: "I never could understand what is
meant by a party's taking a bill under circumstances which
ought to have excited the suspicion of a prudent man." In
Backhouse v. Harrison, decided at the same term, the same
doctrine was held, on the authority of Crook v. Jadis; no additional reasons are given for the opinion, except that Patteson,
J., had "no hesitation in saying that the doctrine first laid down
in Gill v. Cabitt, and acted upon in other cases, has gone too
far, and ought to be restricted." In Goodman v. Harvey, decided in 1836, a non-suit was taken, and the case came before
the court in bank, on a rule nisi for a new trial. The only
opinion reported was by Lord Denman, Ch. J., who said: "The
question I offered to submit to the jury was, whether the plaintiff had been guilty of gross negligence or not. I believe we
are all of opinion that gross negligence only would not be a
sufficient answer, where the party has given consideration for
the bill. Gross negligence may be evidence of mala fides, but
it is not the same thing. We have shaken off the last remnant
of the- contrary doctrine. Where the bill has passed to the
plaintiff without any proof of bad faith in him, there is no objection to his title."
The ruling in the last case is at variance with the decisions
in the two preceding, made by th6 same court only two years
before, and is coincident with the doctrine urged by Mr. Denman, as counsel in Down v. Hallin-, without success. In all
of them it -is assumed that the holcer is not affected by constructive notice of the defect or infirmity in the title. In neither of them is the decision placed upon principle or authority,
or sustained by any intelligible-judicial reasoning. Decisions
so arbitrary and inconsistent cannot be regarded as of sufficient authority to overturn the doctrine established by an uninterr'upted series of decisions by the Courts of King's Bench,
Common Pleas, and Exchequer, and founded on principle as
well as authority.

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

349

Goodman v. Simon.

The more recent cases cited in support of the doctrine of
Lord Denman are, Stevens v. Foster, 1 Crom. Mer. and R., 849;
Uther v. Rich, 10 Ad. and E., 784; Arbouin v. Alderson, 1 Ad.
and E., N. S., 498; and Masters v. Ibberson, 1 Com. and B.,
100. In the first of these cases, the question wag not made,
but the case was considered by the court in bank, together
with Foster v. Pearson, arisin- out of the same transaction; and
it was in reference to the direction given to the jury at the
trial of the latter case, (as in Gill v. Cubitt,) that Baron Park,
in delivering the judgment of the court, expressed a doubt of
its propriety, especially since the decisions of the King's Bench,
in Crook v. Jadis. and Backhouse v. Harrison, but said it was
unnecessary to decide the question then, and, assuming the
direction to be correct, decided the case on other grounds.
In the other cases; the questions arose on the pleadings,
under the new rules. In Uther v. Rich, decided in 1839, the
sole question was, whether malafides is alleged by an averment
in a plea that the plaintiff wa. not a bonafi e holder of the bill.
Lord Denman said: "That the court adhered to the decisioil
in Goodmani v. Harvey, from which it followed that in pleading, mala fides must be distinctly averred." In Arbouin v.
Anderson, decided in 1841, Lord Denman took occasion to say
that, "acting upon the case of Goodman v. Harvey, which
gives the law now prevailing on the subject, we must hold
.that the owner of a bill is entitled to recover upon it, if he has
come by it honestly, and that the fact is implied by possession;
and that, to meet the inference so raised, fraud, felony, or some
such matter, must be proved." In Masters v.,Ibberson, decided
in 1849, (an action by the second endorsee against the maker
of a note,) the defendant pleaded that the note was obtained
from him by a person-not a party-and others in collusion
with him, by fraud, and that there never was any value or consideration for either of the endorsements. This plea was held
bad on special demurrer, because it did not allege that the
payee was a party to the fraud, or had given no consideration
for the note.
It does not appear that the doctrine in the case of Goodman
v. Harvey has been held by any court except the King's Bench;
and in the case of Hatch v. Searles, decided in 1854, (31 Eng.
Law and Eq. Rep., 219,) the doctrine repudiated by the King's
Bench was distinctly asserted. In a suit for the administration of the estate of a deceased person,.a claim was made by
the holder of a bill of exchange to be admitted as creditor;
but it being proved that the holder, who was endorsee of the
bill, was aware of the fact of-the acceptance being in blank, it
was held that he must be taken to have had as full knowledge

SUPREME COURT.
Goodman v. Simondi.

of the circumstances of the origin of the bill as he might have
acquired if he had made proper inquiry; that is, the facts and
circumstances known to the holder at the time of the transfer
amount to constructive notice of the defect or infirmity of the
title, and this is no doubt the true ,round. It is agreed on
all sides that express notice is not indispensable, and constructive notice w ill have the same effect, and the facts and circumstances which will amount to actual or constructive notice may
not be sufficient to prove fraud or malafides in the holder.
The American courts do not appear to have had much difficulty at any time in determining what facts and circumstances
would amount to actual or constructive notice of any defect or
infirmity in a bill. In every case in which the question was
presented, (with the exception of one in Georgia,) the language
of the judges as to the necessity of caution on the part of the
holder, and of inquiry when he had cause to suspect the title
to a bill, has been explicit. Before the decision of the case of
Gill v. Cubitt, the doctrine it recognises had been held in two
of the States, by courts of as high authority on questions of
commercial law as any of the courts of England or any other
country.
As early as 1808, the Supreme Court of Massachusetts held,
in Ayer v. Hutchins, (4 Mass. IR., 470,) that "where the endorsee receives the note under circumstances which might
reasonably excite suspicion, he ought, before he takes it, to
inquire into its validity, and if he does not, he takes it subject
to any legal defence that could defeat a recovery by the payee.
In 1815, the Supreme Court of New York, in Wiggin v. Bush,
(12 John. R., 305,) where the note sued on was dated 24th
May, and it appeared by an endorsement that it was in fact
made 22d April, held that by the endorsement on the note of
the real date, the plaintiff (endorsee) had information which
ought to have led to inquiry into the manner iawhich the note
had been obtained by the payee; the past dating a note which
was endorsed, was an extraordinary circumstance, and ought
to have excited suspicion; and that their neglect to make the
inquiry subjected them to all the consequences of the transaction between the immediate parties.
In the next case in order of time, Brown v. Tabor, (5 Wend.,
566,) decided in 1830 by the Supreme Court of New York, the
defendant was an endorser for the accommodation of the maker
of a note of sixty days, with a view to obtain a discount at the
bank, which being refused, the maker passed the note, with
the bank marks upon it, to the plaintiff, for lottery tickets;
held that the circumstances combined were sufficient to put
the plaintiff upon the Inquiry, and that he was chargeable with

DECEMBER TERM, 1857..

351 -

Goodman v. Simondi.

notice of the misapplication of the note, and that the endorser.
was not liable. In Hall v. Hale, (8 Conn., 836,). decided by
the Supreme Court of Connecticut in 1831, the actuil good
faith of the plaintiff was not impeached, and the case turned
upon the. question whether he had exercised due caution in
receiving the transfer. Hosmer, Chief Juftice, delivering'the
opinion of the court, said: "That the law was well settled, that
if an indorsee take a bill without due caution, and under circumstances.which ought to have excited the suspicions of a
piudent and careful man, the maker, acceptor, or prior endorser,
may be let into his defence;" and he cited Gill v. Cubitt, among
other cases, as authority. The verdict, however, was set aside,
because the judge at the trial had misled the jury by requiring
the utmost possible caution. In Cone v. Baldwin, (12 Pick.,
545,) the court upon the whole. case gave judgment for plaintiff, endorsee, against the maker of the note. But Wilde, J.,
'delivering the opinion of the court, said: "It is not necessary
for the defendant, in order to set up his defence, to prove that
the plaintiff had full knowledge of .the want or failure of consideration. If the circumstances attending the transfer are
such as to put him upon his guard, he is bound to make inquiry, and if he does not, he purchases at his peril."
The Supreme Court of Tennessee, in Hunt v. Sanford, (6
Yerg., 387,) held'that the endorsee or purchaser of a bill or
promissory note must exercise due caution; and if he takds it
under circumstances which might reasonably create suspicion
that it was not good, he takes it at his peril; therefore, where
a note of a solvent maker is sold at a very great discount, with
an agreement on the part of the purchaser to pay a further sum
if the note is collected without suit, the purchaser is subject to
the same defence as the party from whom he purchased. In
Beltzhoover v. Blackstock, (3 Watts. Pa. R., 25,) Sergeant, J.,
said: "I concur in the position, that if an endorsee take a note
heedlessly, and under circumstances which ought to have excited the suspicions of a prudent and careful man, the maker
or prior endorsee may be let in to his defence." In licholson
v. Patton, (13 La., R., 216,) the Supreme Court of Louisiana,
(in 1839,) three years after the decision in Goodman v. Harvey,
took the rule in .Gill v. Cubitt as their guide, and held that
where a note is taken by a broker, under circumstances affording reasonable ground of suspicion, questions must be asked
and inquiries made, whether the party from whchi it is received
came by it honestly; and if he take it without such inquiry,
with a view to profit, it is at his own risk. The same doctrine
was held in Lapice v. Clifton, (17 La. I., 152.)
' In Amdrews v. Pond et al., (13 Pet., 65,) an action on a bill

SUPREME COURT.
Goodman w. ,Simond.

of exchange by the third endorsee against the first endorsers,
the bill had been protested for non-acceptance while in the
hands of. the second endorsee, and that fact appeared on the
face of the bill when received by the plaintiff. In. delivering
the judgment of the court, Chief Justice Taney said: "A person who takes a bill which upon the face of it was dishonored
cannot be allowed to claim the privileges which belong to a
bona fide holder without notice. If he chooses to receive it
under such circumstances, he takes it with all the infirmities
belonging to it, and is in no better condition than the person from whom he received it. There can be no distinction
between a bill transferred after it is dishonored for non-acceptance, and one transferred after it is dishonored for non-payment." In Fowler v. Brantly, 14 Pet., 318, the note sued on
was in a peculiar form prescribed by the Branch Bank at Mobile, when desired to be discounted for accommodation, made
payable to the cashier or bearer, signed by the defendants,
with a written order, also signed by them, to credit a person
who was their factor, and to whom the note was sent to be offered
for discount. The bank refused to discount it, and the figures
"169" were written in pencil on its face, according to the usage
of the bank in such cases. The factor sold the note, and applied
the proceeds to his own use, and it was received by the plaintiff from a subsequent holder, in part payment of a precedent
debt. Held, that "the note carried on its face circumstances
of suspicion so palpable as to put those dealing for it before its
maturity on their guard, and as to require at their hands such
inquiry into the title of those through whose hands it had
passed. Failing to be thus diligent, they must abide the consequences their negligence imposed, and could not recover,
though they had not, in fact, knowledge of the fraud."
In Sanford v. Norton, 14 Vermont R., 228, A. D. 1842, Redfield, Judge, delivering the judgment of the court, said:
"When it is shown that a note or bill was without consideration, or void in its inception, being obtained by force or fraud,
or had been lost, this does so far impeach the title of the holder
as to impose upon him the obligation of showing that he paid
value, and in many cases that he was guilty of no want of ordinary care in taking it. Gill v. Cubitt, which has reference
to lost notes, turns upon the point of their being taken without
due caution. Some of the later cases, in regard to this particular point, seem to have receded a little from this case; but the
doctrine of Gill v. Cubitt is in the main adhered to, and we do
not well see how any other rule could consist with any tolerable regard to justice." The Supreme Court of Illinois, in
McConnell v. Hodson, 2 Gilm., 640, and Russell v. Haddock,

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

3;"53

Goodman'v. Simonds.

3 Gilm., 233, A. D. 1846, held, that where a party, is about to
receive a bill or note, and there are any suspicious circumstances accompanying the transaction, or within the knowledge
of the party, as would induce a prudent man to inquire into
the title of the holder or the consideration of the paper, he will
be bound to make such inquiry; and if hb neglects so to do,
he takes the paper subject to any defences of the prior parties.
The case of Mathews v. Poythess, 4 Georgia R., 287, A. D.
1848, is the next in the order of time. It is the first and only
reported case in which an American court has held the late
doctrine of the King's Bench. The conclusion of the court in
that case is, that the title of the purchaser is not defeated by
the want of such caution on his part as a careful or prudent
man would take in his own affairs, nor by gross negligence;
that it may be defeated by proof of rnalafides in the purchaser;
that mala ides is notice actual or constructive of the fact that the
security is not the property of the person who offers it, and a
privity with or participationin the fraud upon the true owner;
and that the want of proper caution, or any fact that legitimately goes to show such notice, privily, or participation,may be
submitted to the.jury, subject to the direction of the court."
The extreme doctrine of this case, if established, would be very
acceptable, no doubt, to those dealers whose usual business is
ordinarily conducted behind a screen, who, if allowed to keep
their own secrets, will take the risk of proof of notice and
privity vith or participation in the fraud or robbery, by which
the paper was obtained, and, if it should happen in any case
that such proof could be made, he could and would bring his
suit in the name of some confederate against whom the proof
could not be made. Fair dealers neec no concealment, and
the experience of half a century in this coiintry has demonstrated that the rule first laid down in Ayer v. Hutchins, 4
Mass. R., 470, vbile it has led to greater caution in receiving
bills and notes, has not restrained the circulation of negotiable
paper among fair dealers. It has promoted the administration
of.justice, without prejudice to the interests of commerce.
In the same year, (1848,) the subjectwas again nnder consideration of the Supreme Court of Louisiana, in the case of the
Louisiana State Bank v. The New Orleans Navigation Co., 3 La.
An. R., 294, when it was held that express notice is not necessary
to charge the holder with what the law considers to be notice of
any defect or infirmity in a note or bill, so as to 16t in a defqnce
against a holder for value;- it is sufficient if the attending circumstances are of such a positive and pointed character as to
cast a shade upon the transaction, to put the holder upon inquiry. In Ohio, in 1853, it was held in MeKeeson v. StansVOL. XX.

23

354

SUPREME COURT.
Goodman v. Simon&.

bury, 3 Ohio IR., N. S., 156, that although a bona fide holder
of negotiable paper, received before due for a valuable consideration, shall be protected against the defences which the
maker might have against the payee, yet in this case, as in
every other, it is the duty of every person to use ordinary care
and prudence in his transactions, to prevent their operating to
the prejudice of the rights of others; and where the transfer is
fraudulent, the holder, claiming under such a transaction, is
bound to show that he acted honestly and without knowledge
of the fraud.
In the case of Holbrook et al. v. Mix, 1 E. D. Smith R., 152,
New York Court of Common Pleas, 1851, the defendant endorsed the note sued on for the accommodation of the makers,
from whom it was obtained by false and fraudulent representations, by one Beach, who, being indebted to the plaintiffs, enclosed the note to them in a letter, requesting them to pass
the note to his credit, saying, that as he understood it would
be contested, he did not endorse it. The plaintiffs passed the
note to his credit, less the interest. It was held that the plaintiffs bad not received the note in due course of trade, and that
the circumstances under which it was received deprived the
plaintiffs of all claim to be regarded as bona fide holders for
value, without notice of the fraud.
It is a well-established principle, that whatever is notice
enoagh to excite attention, and put a party on its guard and
call for inquiry, is notice of everything to which such inquiry
might have led. When a person has sufficient information to
lead him to a fact, he shall be deemed to have notice of it.
(Kennedy v. Green, 3 Mylne and K., 719; Sugden V. and P.,
1052.)
"1The principle of the doctrine of constructive notice is, that
when a person is about to perform an act by which he has
reason to believe that the rights of a third party may be affected,
an inquiry into the facts is a moral duty, and diligence, an act
of justice. Hence, he proceeds at'his peril when he omits to
inquire, and is chargeable with a knowledge of all the facts that
by a proper inquiry he might have ascertained. This neglect
is followed by all the consequences of bad faith, and he loses
the protection to which his ignorance, had it not proceeded
from neglect, would have entitled him." (Per Duer, J., in
Prinle v. Phillips, 5 Sand. R., 157.)
"nor is constructive notice an arbitrary doctrine, or an unwise attempt to enforce by law a rule of morality. It is founded
upon a deep knowledge of human nature, and is justified hy
the soundest reasons of public policy. It will rarely happen
that a knowledge of the fraud, or other fatal vice, by which

•DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

855

Goodman v. Simotd.

the title he received was infected, can be brought home to the
purchaser by positive evidence; yet to release him in all cases
from the obligation to inquire, is to determine that, in all cases,
such evidence shall be given. On the other hand, when it is
manifest to the minds of a jury that just grounds of suspicion
existed, we may be certain, as a general rule, that the suspicion was felt by the purchaser, and that he chose not to inquire,
because he was resolved not to know. Constructive notice
may doubtless operate, in some cases, to defeat the title of deceived and innocent purchasers, but its general effect is to reach
those who meant, by their voluntary ignorance, to cover their
fraudulent intent; and it is in truth so essential to the protection of deceived and innocent owners, that to abolish it would
be to encoura-e, if not by the promise, yet by the certain hope
of impunity, 5 ishonesty, collusion, and fraud." (Ibid.)
The decisions which have been. cited of all the courts of England in bank prior to 1834, and of the American courts at all
times, with a single exception, are but the application of the
general principles to particular cases. That principle applied
to this case is decisive against the plaintiff, as well upon the
undisputed facts proved at the trial as those found by the jury.
It was proved beyond controversy that the plaintiff took the
bill with a full knowledge of several facts and circumstances,
each one of which has been held sufficient to charge a holder
of negotiable paper with notice of defects or infirmities in the
title. He took the bill which he had refused to discount, from
his debtor, known to be insolvent, merely as a pledge to secure
a desperate debt. (See Eagan v. Threlf et al., 5 Dowl. and R.,
326; Bay v. Coddin-ton, 5 J. 0. R., 54.) He received it with
a knowledge that itlad been a long time in the hands of his
debtor in blank, while he was in pecuniary difficulties. (Hatch
v. Searles, 31 English Law and Eq. R., 219.) He not only knew
the bill to be falsely dated, but he himself filled the blank with
the false date it bore. (Wiggin r.Bush, 12 John. R., 805.) He
attempted to pass it off, not only without the endorsement of
his firm or his own, (Holbrook v. Mix, 1 E. D. Smith R., 112,)
but gave a false reason for refusing to endorse. Neither the
plaintiff nor his firm had authority to sell the bill for another;
on the contrary, they had stipulated not to dispose of it, nor
put it into circulation before the maturity of the notes of their
debtor; the demand Jy the debtor of such a stipulation was
alone sufficient to put the plaintiff and his firm on their guard.
Under these circumstances, the plaintiff cannot complain if he
qis
held to have taken the bill subject to the defences of the
defrauded acceptor.
The facts found by the jury admit of no other conclusion

856

SUPREME COURT.
Goodman v. Simonds.

than that the plaintiff either had actual notice that the drawer
had no title or interest in the bill, and no authority to dispose
of it for his own use, or that he had a suspicion of the fact, and
,abstained from inquiry for the purpose of avoiding notice;
which would be sufficient to establish a charge of guilty knowledge, even in a criminal case. If it appeared that a party
charged with receiving stolen property of any kind, knowing
it to be stolen, had received it "with a knowledge of facts ana
circumstances which caused him to suspect, or would have
caused a person of ordinary prudence to suspect, that it was
stolen, and that he could have ascertained the fict by the use of
ordinary diligence," he could not have escaped conviction on
the plea that he had taken it to secure a debt which had become
desperate by insolvency of the debtor, and "was not bound to
take care of the interest of third persons." The same state of
facts appearing in a transaction requiring good faith and due
diligence on the part of the holder, by the commercial law which
he invokes, cannot be less than proof of notice of everything
which might have been ascertained by the use of ordinary diligence.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
This was a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of Missouri.
Timothy S. Goodman, a citizen of the State of Ohio, complained in the court below of John Simonds, a citizen of the
State of Missouri, in a plea of'trespass on the case upon promises. The declaration was filed on the first day of March, 1854.
contained two counts-one upon a bill of exchange, and the
It.
other upon an account stated. At the April term following,
the defendant appeared and pleaded the general issue, which
was joined, and several special pleas in bar of the action. The
special pleas were held bad on demurrer, and at the October
term, 1855, the parties went to trial on the general issue. Robert M. Niesbit, a witness called for the plaintiff, testified that
he was a notary public of the county of St. Louis; and that,
as such, on the fifteenth day of January, 1848, he. presented
the bill in suit for payment to John Simonds, the acceptor,
who refused to pay it, and that he afterwards gave due notice
of the presentment and refusal to both endorsers. And the
witness further testified, that he was well acquainted with the
signatures of all the parties ti the bill, except that of the drawer,
and that they were genuine. Whereupon the plaintiff read in
evidence the bill of exchange described in the fizst count of the
declaration, together with the endorsemcats thereon, as they appear in the record. W. Nesbit &Co. were merely nominal hold-

-DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

8357

Goodman v. Simonds.

ers of the bill, never having had any interest -in it, and only
endorsed it to the plaintiff for the greater convenience in bring.
ing the suit. Evidence was then introduced on the part of the
defendant, exhibiting substantially the following state of facts:
On the twenty-first day of June, 1847, the defendant addressed
a letter to Wallace Sigerson, who resided at Cincinnati, informing him that he wished to avail himself of banking facilities in
that place, to carry on certain business, in which he dnd Sohn
Sigerson had determined to engage, and asking his assistance,
as a correspondent, to negotiate discounts, enclosing at the
same time his letter of credit for ten thousand dollars, and two
'bills of exchange, each for the sum of five thousand dollars, and
suggesting in the same' letter that they should require some
twenty.to twenty-five thousand dollars during the next four or
five months, in sums of about five thousaid dollars, as the same
could be used from time to time. In the same letter also hp
instructed his correspondent to negotiate five thousand dollars
immediately, authorizing him .to use for that purpose either
the letter of credit or the bills of exchange. When those bills
were transmitted to Cincinnati, they were in all respects perfect bills of exchange, except that the' name of the drawer waswanting, and they were without date. ,They were both made
,payable to the order of John Sigerson, and by him endorsed in.
blank, and were accepted by the defendant. Soon after their
receipt, Wallace Sigerson, as drawer, procured one of the bills
to be discounted according to his instructions, and remitted
the proceeds, or a part thereof, to the defendant; and it also
appeared that, during that season, he procured other bills of.
the same kind, to be discounted for the saie parties, to the
amount of twenty-five thousand dollars. The other bill forwarded at that time is the one now in suit. -Wallace Sigerson
had also large transactions of his own, the same season; amountingto four hundred thousand dollars. Many of his own transactions were with his brother, John Sigerson, who was the
payee and endorser of this bill, and was jointly engaged in the
same business with the defendant. He and his brother interchanged accommodation paper, and some of their acceptances'
were regularly discounted in bank, and it did not, appear that
any complaint was made, either by the icceptor or endorser,
that this bill had not been accounted for or returned. There
were dealings, also, the same season, between T. S. Goodman
& Co. and Wallace Sigerson. They made a settlement on the
twelfth, day of October, 1847, when it was ascertained that the
amount due to T. S. Goodman & Co. was about five-thousand
six hundred dollars, arising principally from notes discounted;
secured by bills of exchange as collaterals, on which nothing

SUPREME COURT.
Goodman v. Simond.

had been realized. At the settlement, the debt was divided into
two notes, one having sixty and the other seventy-five days to
run; and Wallace Sigerson testified that he gave his two notes
in payment of the debt, and left tbis bill as collateral security
to the notes, fixing the dates so that the notes would mature
twelve or fifteen days before the bill. Two drafts on Ravisess,
Bulock, & Co., previously held as collaterals, were embraced in
the settlement, and formed a part of the indebtedness for which
the notes were given; and McDonald, who was the book-keeper
of the plaintiff's firm, and a witness for the defendant, testified
he knew of no other collateral security than this bill, which the
firm held for those notes. It would seem, therefore, that all
the prior collaterals were surrendered to the defendant at the
settlement. There is some confusion, and perhaps uncertainty,
in the evidence reported, respecting the history of the bill from
the time it went into the possession of Wallace Sigerson till it
was thus placed in the hands of T. S. Goodman & Co., as collateral security to the above-mentioned notes. It may, however, be gathered from the testimony of Wallace Sigerson, that
he first offered it for discount to the Ohio Life and Trust Company, and shortly afterward to the plaintiff, for the same purpose, and that the plaintiff declined to discount it, but soon
after took it as collateral security for temporary loans. How
long the bill remained in the possession of the plaintiff as collateral security for temporary loans does not appear, nor for
whose benefit the money was obtained. When the settlement
took place, Wallace Sigerson told the plaintiff that he had a
right to use the bill, and the plaintiff agreed that it should not
be sent to St Louis for collection till after the maturity of the
notes to which it was collateral. Nothing of the kind was
agreed when it was left as collateral security for temporary
loans. Wallace Sigerson became the drawer of this bill, as he
had previously done with respect to the other, which was sent
him at the same time, and filled up the date, but whether at
the time of the settlement, or previously, was not entirely certain. He failed in business in November, 1847, and on the
twentieth day of the same month, T. S. Goodman & Co. addressed a letter to C. W. Clark & Brothers, enclosing this bill,
and requesting them to pass it at the least rate, not exceeding
twelve per cent. interest, saying, "We do not endorse it, as we
are selling it for another; and when L. C. Clark, one of that
firm, a few days afterward offered the bill for sale to the defendant, "he said it was a forgery of his name; that Wallace
Sigerson had no authority to use it." At the trial, the court,
on the prayer of the plaintiff, instructed the jury to the effect,
that'if the plaintiff acquired the bill of Wallace Sigerson as

•DECENIBER TERM, 1857.

359

Goodman v. Simond.

collateral security without notice of his want of authority to
transfer it, that the plaintiff was unaffected by such abuse of
trust, and that the defendant was precluded from setting it up
as a defence in this suit, to which no exceptions were taken.
We pass over the first instruction given to the jury on the
prayer of the defendant, for the same reason that it was not
excepted to, and proceed to'examine the second, as amended
by the court, which -presents the principal subject of controversy at the present.time. It was to the effect, that "if such
facts and circumstances were known to the plaintiff as caused
him to suspect, or that would have caused one of ordinary
prudence to suspect, that Wallace Sigerson had no interest
in the bill, and no authority to use the same for his own
benefit, and by ordinary diligence he could have ascertained
these facts, then the jury will find for the defendant."
I. The general question which the bill of exceptions presents,
arising upon that instruction, is certainly one of very considerable importance, especially to the mercantile community, as.
it affects the transfer and free circulation of bills of exchange
and promissory notes, which, by virtue of their negotiable
quality, constitute the principal medium for the transaction of
their business affairs. There is, however, some reason to doubt
whether the evidence at the trial furnished any proper basis
for the application of the instruction in this case, even supposing the principle announced to be correct as an abstract
proposition; and this gives rise to a preliminary question, which
will be first considered, whether: the instruction ought not to be
regarded as objectionable on that account. 'When a prayer forinstruction is presented to the court, and there is no evidence
in the case-for the consideration of the jury, it ought always
to be withheld; and as a general rule, if it is given under such
circumstances, it will be error in the court, for the reason that
its tendency may be and often is to mislead the jury, by withdrawing their attention from the legitimate points of inquiry
involved in the issue. All that was shown at the trial, in addition to the description of the bill, was the refusal of the
p liaintiff to discount it when it was offered for that purpose,
his possession and control of it shortly after, as a pledge for
temporary loans, and the subsequent transfer of the bill to him
as collateral security at the settlement, together with the circumstances of that transaction, and what appeared in the letter
of T. S. Goodman & Co., transmitting the bill-to St. Louis for
sale. 'Other circumstances are adverted to in the printed argument for the defendant; but as they do not appear to be sustamed by the evidence in the case, they are omitted. Nothing
transpired when the bill was offered for'discount, more than

SUPREME COURT.
Goodman v. Simond ,.

what occurs on similar occasions in the daily transactions
among business men. It was offered and declined, and that
was the whole transaction, so far as it was disclosed in the
evidence. No reasons were assigned by the plaintiff for declining, and none were asked for by the holder, who offered
the bill. Mere speculative inferences are never allowable, and
cannot be regarded as evidence. The refusal to discount the
bill might have been for the reason supposed in the instruction;
and so also it might have been for a very different reason, such
as a prior obligation to other customers, want of available
funds, or from a desire for farther information as to the pecuniary -standing of the parties to this bill; and whether it was
for any one of the reasons suggested, or some other, in the
absence of any explanation, was a mere naked conjecture.
Another answer may also be given to this suggestion, which
is equally decisive, and that is the subsequent conduct of the
plaintiff in taking the bill as a pledge for temporary loans,
which seems to negative the supposition altogether that the
previous refusal to discount it was on account of any suspicion
he entertained, either as to the genuineness of the paper or of
the authority of the holder to pass it. Some time elapsed, after
the bill was offered for discount, before it was finally transferred
to the plaintiff, and that fact undoubtedly was well known to
the plaintiff at the time of the transfer; and so also was the
more important one in this investigation, that during all that
time the bill remained in the custody or under the control of
Wallace Sigerson, as the ostensible owner, and that he claimed
and exercised over it all the rights of a holder for value. If
these circumstances are taken in connection with each other,
as they unquestionably should be, there can be no doubt they
were far better suited to inspire confidence in the title of the
holder than to excite suspicion in regard to his authority to
pass the bill; and if they had that effect, it was plainly the
fault of the defendant in executing and forwarding the bill to
his correspondent, and in intrusting it to his control, and suffering it to remain in his custody without inquiry or complainf.
The want of date to the bill at the time it was offered for discount, under the circumstances disclosed in theevidence, was
entirely an immaterial consideration. When the defendant
sent the bill to Wallace Sigerson, endorsed in blank and without date, and intrusted it to his care and discretion, to be used
for his own benefit, he thereby empowered him to fill the
blank, as a necessary incident to the trust conferred, just as
effectually as if the authority had been expressly delegated by
the terms of the letter in which it was sent. Nor was it of anr
consequence that it was antedated, as compared with the time

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

861

Goodman v. Simonds.

when it was passed to the plaintiff, inasmuch as it was filled
up by his own, correspondent, before he parted with its possession and control, and was actually made to bear date subsequent
to the time when it was received from the defendant. In filling it up, he but carried into effect one of the purposes for
which it had'been forwarded, as is plainly indicated from the
general scope and design of the letter. He was authorized to
use the bill to raise money for the benefit of the defendant;
and in order to use the bill for that purpose, it must have been
expected that he would become the drawer, and fill up the
date at his discretion. Independently, however, of the terms
of the letter, it may be asserted, as a general principle, that
where a party to a negotiable bill of exchange or promissory
note intrusts it to the custody of another, when it is without
date, whether it be for the purpose to accommodate the person
to whom it was intrusted, or to be used for his own benefit, such
bill or note carries on its face an implied authority to fill tip
the blank; and, as between such party to the bill or note and
innocent third parties, the person to whom it was so- intrusted
must be deemed the agent of the party who committed such
bill or note to his custody, and as acting under his authority,
and with his approbation. (Mitchel v. Carver, 10 Wend., 836
and n.ote.)
The general doctrine on this subject, and the reasons on
which it is founded, are stated by Shaw, 0. J., in Androscoggin Bank v. Kimball, (10 Cush., 373,) as follows: "The rule is
very clear, that if one party, intending to accommodate another,
signs his name to a blank paper, he authorizes the other to
whom he delivers it, and for whose accommodation it 'vas made,
to fill up the blank; and the filling up, being done by his authority, is his act, and he is bound by it; and we concur in the
principle, and think it applies with even more force when it
was-done for his own benefit, as in this case." (Violet v. Patton, 5 Cran., 142; Russell v. Langstaffe, 2 Doug., 514; Collis
v. Emmet, 1 H. Back, 813; Montague v. Perkins, 22 Eng. I.
and Eq., 516.)
The circumstances thus.far considered we think afforded no
ground of inference whatever to support the theory of.fact assumed in the instruction. But it is more difficult to dispose
of those that follow in the same way, on account of the extremely indefinite nature of the inquiry arising under the instruction. One man is inore readily influenced to suspect fraud
in matters of business than another, and the same individual
may be differently impressed by similar transactions occurring
at different times under precisely similar circumstances; so that
in some cases, where the evidences to excite suspicion were

SUPREME COURT.
Goodman v. Simon&.

slight, it might be impossible to determine whether they were
or were not of a character to be regarded as tending to support
an issue like the one presented under the first branch of the
instruction, without first ascertaining the general characteristics
of the mind of the individual who was the subject of the inquilT,
and his usual habit in conducting his business affairs. A
striking illustration of the difficulty attending the investigation
is to be found in the instruction itself, assuming for the present
that it must be understood according to the usual import of
the language employed. Under its first branch it was necessary, in order to relieve the defendant, that the jury should
find that such facts and circumstances were known to the plaintiff as caused him to suspect the title or authority of the holder
to transfer the bill. But the jury might come to the conclusion that the plaintiff was thoughtless, confiding, or inattentive
op the occasion, and that he in fact took the bill without any
such suspicion ; and to guard against the effect of such a finding, the second branch of the instruction was framed, and under that it was of no consequence whether the plaintiff himself
suspected the title of the holder or not, as the defendant was
nevertheless to be fully exonerated if the jury found that such
facts and circumstances were known to him as would have
caused one of ordinary prudence to suspect, and by ordinary
diligence he could have ascertained, the true state of the title.
Here was an attempt to prescribe a standard in the investigation, by which the degree of suspicion intended to be required
to defeat the claim of the plaintiff could be ascertained and
measured by the jury; but under the first branch of the instruction no such attempt was made, and no other criterion was
furnished to guide the jury in their deliberations, than mere
naked suspicion; and consequently, if the jury believed, fr-om
the evidence in the case, that the plaintiff at the time of the
transfer suspected the title or authority of the holder to pass
the bill, no matter how slight his suspicions were, they were
directed to return their verdict for the defendant. With this
explanation as to the nature of the present inquiry, we will
proceed to notice the remaining circumstances relied on as evidence ia the case to support the instruction. They consist of
the knowledge that the plaintiff is supposed to have acquired
at the settlement, that Wallace Sigerson was embarrassed in
his business afihirs, and of the subsequen~t conduct of his firm,
in forwarding the bill to SIL. Loui- before the maturity of the
notes, and the remark in their letter that they-did not endorse
the bill, as they were selling it for another. These circumstances are consistent with theyproposition of fact assumed in
the instruction; and thotigh they are susceptible of an entirely

DECEMIER TERM, 1857.

863

Goodman v. Simonds.

different explanatioil, yet perhaps it would be going too far to
say, as matter of law, that they afforded no ground of inference
in the direction supposed by the defendant. We think, therefore, that the judgment ought not to be reversed on the ground
that there was no evidence in the case to authorize the instruction. We say so,-however, in reference to the-peculiar
issue arising under that instruction, and the form of the questions submitted to the jury, and not in respect to any different
issue which may properly arise herjafter-in cases of this description. There is a wide difference between suspicion and
knowledge in respect to the subject-matter under consideration, and even as between the evidences of suspicion, and such
as would show gross negligence on the part of a banker or
business man when discounting or purchasing negotiable paper
transferable by delivery. A person may often suspect in matters of business what in fact he does not believe, and experience teaches that he will sometimes suspect what he has no
reason to believe, and that too when the evidences to excite
suspicion are so slight that he himself would scorn to acknowledge them as the basis of his actinn in the premises. Evidence
merely tending to show, as in this case, that a party, in acquiring a negotiable bill of exchange or promissory note, suspected
the title of the holder at the time of the delivery, would clearly
be insufficient tb authorize the conclusion that he was guilty
of gross negligence when the transfer was made, and it would
hardly constitute an approach towards proof that he had
knowledge that such holder, who was known to be dealing in
such paper, and claimed the right to use it, was guilty of any
breach of trust in passing it.
II.The more- important question,. whether the instruction
was correct, remains to be considered; and in appr 6 aching that
question it becomes necessary, in the first place, to ascertain
what the instruction was, and to deduce from-it the principle
of commercial law which was applied to the case. It was
somewhat peculiar in its language, and, in fact, contained two
distindt propositions, differing essentihlly in cortain aspects,
and not entirely reconcilable with-each other; -and yet we cannot doubt that the Circuit Court, in giving the instruction to
the jury, intended to apply the doctrine to the case, that the
title of the holder of. a negotiable bill of exchange acquired
before maturity is not protected against prior equities of the
antecedent parties to the bill, where it was taken without inquiry, and under circumstances which ought to have excited
the suspicions of a prudent and careful man. Svch was certainly the general scope of the instruction, especially its second
proposition; and such, it may be presumed, was the general

864

SUPREME COURT.
Goodman v. Simond&.

principle intended to be embodied in the questions submitted
to the jury. They have been so treated here in the oral argu
ment for the plaintiff, and were treated in the same way in the
printed argument filed for the defendant. Whether either or
both of the questibns, in the form iA which they were submitted, were objectionable as involving a departure from the
doctrine intended to be applied, it will not become necessary
to inquire. Onething is certain-if the general principle cannot
be sustained, there is nothing in the features of the departure
from it, or the particular phraseology of the questions submitted, to benefit the defendant. - Undoubtedly the same genoral idea pervaded the instruction, though the questions were
submitted. to the jury in different forms, in order to meet the
different aspects of the evidence -in the case. It was to the
effect, that if the plaintiff had acquired the bill under the circumstances described in either branch of the instruction, then
he had acted without due caution, and was not entitled to recover. All the other grounds of defence had been provided
for in other prayers for instruction. This one was obviously
prepared to raise the single question, whether the plaintiff had
acted with due caution in acquiring the bill, and consequently
assumed all the other requisites of a good title in favor of the
plaintiff. The only question, therefore, arising under the instruction, is, whether the rule of commercial law applied to the
case was correct. Bills of exchange are commercial paper in
the strictest sense, and must ever be regarded as favored instruments, as well on account of their negotiable quality as their
universal convenience in mercantile affairs. They may be
transferred by endorsement; or when endorsed in blank, or
made payable to bearer, they are transferable by mere delivery.
The law encourages their use as a safe and convenient medium
for the settlement of balances among mercantile men; and
any course of judicial decision calculated to restrain or impede
their free and unembarrassed circulation, would be contrary to
the soundest principles of public policy. Mercantile law is a
system of jurisprudence acknowledged by all commercial na-.
tions; and upon no subject is it of more importance that there
should be, as far as practicable, uniformity of decision throughout the world. A well-defined and correct exposition of the
rights of a bonafide holder of a negotiable instrument was given
by this court in Swift v. Tyson, (16 Pet., p. 1,) as long ago as
1842; and we adopt that exposition relative to the point under
consideration on the present occasion, as one accurately defining the nature and character of the title to those instruments
which such holder acquires when they are transferred to him
for a valuable consideration. This court then said, and we

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

-365 -

Goodman v. Simonds.

now repeat, that a bona fide holder of a negotiable instrument
for a valuable consideration, withot notice of facts which impeach its validity between the antecedent parties, if -hetakes
it under an endorsement made before the same becomes due,
holds the title unaffected by these facts, and may recover
thereon, although, as between the antecedent parties, the
transaction may be without any legal validity. That question
was not one of new impression at the date of that decision,
nor was it so regarded either by-the court or the learned judge
Who gave the opinion; on the contrary, it was declared to be
a doctrine so. long and so well establishedi and so essential to
the security of negotiable paper, that it was laid up among the
fundamentals of the law, and required no authority or reasoning to be brought out in its support; and the opinion.on that
point was fully approved by every member -of the court, and
we see no reason to qualify or change it in any respect. Such
being the settled law in this court, it would seem to follow as
a necessary consequence from the proposition as stated, that if
a bill of exchange endorsed in blank, so as to be transferable
by delivery, be misappropriated by one to whom itwas intrusted, or even if it be lost or stolen, and afterwards negotiated
to one having no knowledge of these facts, for a valuable consideration, and in the usual course of business, his title Would
be good, and thit he would be entitled to recover the amount.
The law was thus framed, and has been so administered, in
order to encourage the free circulation of negotiable paper by
giving confidence and security to those who receive it for value;
and this principle is so comprehensive in respect to bills of
exchange and promissory notes, which pass by delivery, that
the title and possession are considered as one and inseparable,
and in the absence of any explanation the law presumes that
a party in possession holds the instrument for value until the
contrary is made to appear, and the burden of proof is on the
party attempting to impeach the title. These principles are
certainly in accordance with the general current of authorities;
and are believed to correspond with the general undeistanding
of those engaged in mercantile pursuits. The word notice, as
used by this court on the occasion referred to, we think must
be understood in the same sense as knowledge, and indeed
that is one of its usual and appropriate significations. Where
the supposed defect or infirmity in the title of the instrument
appears on its face at the time of the transfer, the question
whether a party .who took it had notice or not, is in general
a question of construction, and must be determined by the
court as matter of law; and so it was understood by this court
in Andrews v. Pond et al., (13 Pet., 65,) where it is said that

SUPREME COURT.
Goodman v. Simond..

"a person who takes a bill which upon the face of it was dishonored, cannot be allowed to claim the privileges which belong to a bonafide holder. If he chooses to receive it under
such circumstances, he takes it with all the infirmities belonging to it, and is in no better condition than the person from
whom he received it." And the same doctrine was adopted
and enforced in Fowler v. Brant]y, (14 Pet., 318,) where, in
speaking of a promissory note, so marked as to show for whose
benefit it was to be discounted, this court held that all those
dealing in paper "with such marks on its face, must be presumed to have knowledge of what it imported." (See Brown v.
Davis, 3 Term., 80.)
Other cases of like character, where the defect appears on
the face of the instrument, are referred to in the printed argument for the defendant as affording a support to the instruction
under consideration; but it is so obvious that they can have
no such tendency, that we forbear to pursue the subject. (Ayer
v. Hutchins, 4 Mass., 270; Wiggin v. Bush, 12 John., 305;
Cone v. Baldwin, 12 Pick., 545; Brown v. Tabor, 5 Wend.,
566.)
But it is a very different matter when it is pr.oposed to impeach the title of a holder for value, by proof of any facts and
circumstances outside of the instrument itself, He is then to
be affected, if at all, by what has occurred between other parties, and he may well claim an exemption from any consequences flowing from their acts, unless it be first shown that
he had knowledge of such facts and circumstances at the time
the transfer was made. Nothing less than proof of knowledge
of such facts and circumstances can meet the exigencies of
such a defence; else the proposition as stated is not true, that
a party who acquires commercial paper in the usual course of
business, for value and without notice of any defect in the
title, may hold it free of all equities between the antecedent
parties to the instrument. Admit the proposition, and the
conclusion follows. And the question whether the party had
such knowledge or not, is a question of fact for the jury, and,
like other disputed questions of scienter, must be submitted to
their determination, under the instructions of the court; and
the proper inquiry is, did the party, seeking to enforce the
payment, have knowledge, at the time of the transfer, of the
[acts and circumstances which impeach the title, as between
,he antecedent parties to the instrument? and if the jury find
;hat he did not, then he is entitled to recover, unless the transiction was attended by bad faith, even though the instrument
.and been lost or stolen. Every one must conduct himself
honestly in respect to the antecedent parties, when he takes ne-

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

867

Goodman v. Simon .

gotiable paper, in order to acquire a title which will shield him
against prior equities. While he is not obliged to make inquiries, he must not wilfully shut his eyes to the means of
knowledge which "he knows are at hand, as was plainly intimated by Baron Parke, in May v. Chapman, 16 I{ee. and
Wels., 855, for the reason that such conduct, whether equivalefit to notice or not, would be plenary evidence of bad faith.
Mere want of care and caution, which was the criterion assumed in the instruction, falls so far below the true standard
required by law, which is knowledge of the facts and circumstances that impeach the title, that we feel indisposed to pursue
the general discussion, and proceed to confirm the views we
have advanced as to what the law is, by referring to some of
the decisions in the English courts, from Which, as an important source of commercial law, most of our own rules upon the
subject have been derived.
The leading case, aimong the more modern decisions in that
country, is that of Goodman v. Harvey, 4 Ad. and Ell., 870.
That was a case in bank, on a rule nisi, which was nmade absolute. Lord Denman, in delivering judgment, said: "We
are all of opinion that gross negligence only would not be a
sufficient answer, where a party has given consideration for
the bill; 'gross negligence may be evidence of malafides, but it
is not the same thing. Where the bill has passed to the plaintiff without any proof of badfaith in-him, there is no objection
to his title." That case was followed by lUther v. Rich, 10
Ad. and Ell., 784, which was also argued before a full court,
and the same learned judge held that the only proper mode of
implicating the plaintiff in the alleged fraud by pleading was
to aver that he had notice of it, leaving the circumstances by
which that notice was to be proved, directly or indirectly, to
be established in evidence; and he further held, that an averment that the- plaintiff was not a bona fide holder was not
equivalent. According to the rule laid down in Goodman v.
Harvey, which indubitably is the settled law in all the English
courts, proof 'that the plaintiff had beeh guilty of gross negligence in acquiring the bill, ought not to defeat his right to
recover; and if not, it serves to exemplify the magnitude of
the error assumed in the instruction, that any facts and circumstances which would excite the suspicion of a careful and pru
dent man were sufficient to destroy the title. It is clear that
one or the other of these rules must be incorrect; both cannot
be upheld. Gross negligence is defined to consist of the omission of that card which even inattentive and thoughtless men
never fail to take of their own property; and if such neglect
would not' defeat the right to 'recover-and clearly it would-

SUPREME COURT.
Goodman v. Simonde.

not, unless attended by bad faith-it cannot require any farther
reasoning to demonstrate that the instruction was erroneous.
Several cases have been decided in England upon the same
subject, and to the same effect, and the rule laid down in
Goodman v. Harvey is now adopted and sanctioned by the
most approved elementary treatises upon commercial law.
(Raphael v. The Bank of England, 33 Eng L and Eq., 276;
Stephens v. Foster, 1 Cromp., Mee., and Wels., 849; Palmer
v. Richards, I Eng. L. and Eq., 529; Arbouin v. Anderson, 1
Ad. and Ell., N. S., 498; May v. Chapman, 16 Mee. and Wels.,
355; Chitty on Bills, 12th ed., 257; Story on Bills, 3d ed.,
gec. 416; Byles on Bills, 4th Am. ed., 121 to 126; Smith's
Mer. Law, ed. 1857, 255; Edwards on Bills, 309; 1 Saun.
Plea. and Ev., 591; Wheeler v. Guild, 20 Pick., 545; Brush
v. Scribner, 11 Conn., 368; Backhouse v. Harrison, 5 Barn.
and Ad., 1098; Gwynn v. Lee, 9 Gill., 138.)
These cases, beyond controversy, confirm the rule laid down
by this court in Swift v. Tyson, and they also furnish the fullest
evidence, by their harmony each with the other, as well as by
their entire consistency with the principal case, that the law
has been uniform since the decision in Goodman v. Harvey,
which was decided in 1836; and we think it will appear, upon
an examination, that it has always been the same, at least from
a very early period in the history of English jurisprudence
down to the present time, except for an interval of about twelve
years, while the doctrine prevailed which is now invoked in
support of the instruction in this case. That doctrine had its
origin in Gill v. Cubitt, 3 Barn. and Cress., 466, and it was followed by the other cases referred to in the printed argument
for defendant. It was decided in 1824, and it is true, as the
cases cited abundantly show, that it was acquiesced in for a time,
as a correct exposition of the commercial law upon the subject
under consideration. At the same time, it is proper to remark,
that there is not wanting respectable authority that it had been
much disapproved of before it was directly questioned; and it
is certain, that nearly two years before it was finally overruled,
Parke, Baron, in delivering judgment in Foster v. Pearson,
regarded it as mere "dicta, rather than the --cision of the
judges of the King's Bench." (See Raphael v.The Bank of
England, per Cresswell.) The reasons assigned fot that departure from the long-established rule upon the subject are as remarkable and unsatisfactory as the change was sudden and
radical, and yet their particular examination at this time is
unnecessary. It is a sufficient answer to the case to say, that
it has been distinctly overruled in the tribunal where it was
decided, and has not been considered an authorilty in that court

DECEM BER TERM, 1857.

869

Goodman v. Simond,,

for more than twenty years. The doctrine, says Mr. Chitty in
his treatise on bills, is now completely exploded, and the old
rule of law that the holder of bills of exchange, endorsed in
blank and transferable by delivery, can give a title which he
does not possess, to a person taking them bona fide for value,
is again re-established in its fullest extent. It was not, however, accomplished at a single blow, but the error, so to speak,
was literally broken up and destroyed by instalments. The
foundation of the superstructure was severely shaken in Crook
v. Jadis, 5 Barn. and Ad., 909, when the full bench first came
to the conclusion that want of due care and caution were insufficient to constitute a defence, and that gross negligence, at
least, must be shown, to defeat a recovery. But it was left to
the case of Goodman v. Harvey to announce a complete correction of the error, when Lord Denman declared, we have
shaken off the last remnant of the contrary doctrine.
A brief reference to some of the earlier cases will be sufficient to show that the decision in Gill v. Cubitt was a departure
from the well-known and long-established rule upon the subject under consideration. One of the earliest cases usually
referred to is that of Hintous case, reported in 2 Show, 247.
It was an action of the case against the drawer upon a bill of
exchange payable to bearer. The court ruled that the holder
must entitle hiniself to it on a consideration; "for if he come
to be bearer by casualty or knavery, he shall not have the benefit of it;" and so in anonymous, 1 Salk., 126, where a bank
note payable to A, or bearer, was lost, and found by a stranger,
and by him transferred to 0, for value. Holt, Oh. J., held that
"A might have trover against the stranger, for he had no title
to it, but not against C,.by reason of the course of trade, which
creates a property in the bearer." And again in Millerv. Race,
1 Burr, 462, where an inn-kedper received a bank note from
his lod-er in the course of business, and paid the balance,
Lord Ivansfield held he might retain it, as he came by it fairly
and bona fide, and for value, and without knowledge that it had
been stolen. And on a second occasiofi, in Grant v. Vaughan,
8 Burr, 1516, where a bill payable to bearer was lost, and the
finder passed it to the plaintiff, the same court left it to the
jury to find whether he came t, the possession fairly and bond
fide. But a stiff stronger case is that of Peacock v. Rhodes, 2
Doug., 633, where a bill of exchange, endorsed in blank, was
stolen and passed to theplaintiff by a man-not known. It was
argued for the defendant, that a holder should not in prudence
take a bill unless he knew the person. Lord Mansfield answered, "that the law is well settled, that a holder coming
fairly by a bill has nothing to do with the-transaction between
VOL. xx.

24

SUPREME COURT.
Goodman v. Simonds.

the original parties. * * * The question of malafides was
for the consideration of the jury." And lastly, and to the same
effect, is Lawson v. Weston et al., 4 Esp. R., 56, where a bill
of exchange for £500 was lost or stolen, and was discounted
by plaintiff for a stranger. It was insisted for the defendant,
that "a banker or. any other person should not discount a bill
for one unknown, without using diligence to inquire into the circumstances." Lord Kenyon replied, that "to adopt the principles of the defence would be to paralyze the circulation of all
the paper in the country, and with it all its commerce; that the
circumstance of the bill having been lost, might have been
material, if they could bring knowledge of that fact home to the plaintiff." The cases cited, commencing in 1694 and ending in 1801,
are sufficient to show what the state of the law was in 1824,
when Gill v. Cubitt was decided, especially as the judges of the
King's Bench, in giving their opinions on that occasion, did not
pretend that there were any later decisions in which it had been
modified.
III. But, assuming that the instruction was erroneous, it is
still insisted, by the course of the argument for the defendant,
that it was immaterial; and the argument proceeds upon the
ground that the case, as made in the bill of exceptions, shows
that the plaintiff was not the holder of the bill for a valuable
consideration, in the usual course of business. On the contrary, it is insisted that he held it merely as a collateral security
for a pre-existing debt, without any present consideration at
the time of the transfer, and that a party who takes negotiable
paper under such circumstances does not acquire it in the usual
course of business, and consequently takes it subject to prior
equities. Whatever may be our impressions in a case like the
one supposed, we think the question does not arise in the present record, assuming the facts to be as they are exhibited in
the bill of exceptions; and the answer to the argument will be
based entirely upon that assumption, without prejudice to what
may hereafter appear. When the settlement was made, thd

new notes were given in payment of the prior indebtedness,
4-dd:,.the collaterals previously held were surrendered to the
dqfdhdant, and the time of payment was extended and definitively fixed by the terms of the notes, showing an agreement
to give time for the payment of a debt already over-due, and a
forbearance to enforce remedies for its recovery; and the implication is very strong, that the delay secured by the arrangement constituted the principal inducement to the transfer of
the bill. Such a suspension of an existing demand is frequently
of the utmost importance to a debtor, and it constitutes one of
the oldest titles of the law under the head of forbearance, and

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

871

'Goodmanv. ,Simonla

has always been considered a sufficient and iralid consideration.
(Elting v. Vanderlyn, 4 John., 237; Morton v. Burn, 7 Ad. and
El., 19; Baker v. Walker, 14 Mee. and Wels., 465; Jennison
v. Stafford, 1 Cush., 168; Walton v. Mascall, 13 Mee. and Wels.,
453; Com. Dig., action assumpsit, B. 1; Wheelev. Slocum,
16 Pick., 62; Story on Prom. Notes, sec. 186,.and cases cited.)
The surrender of other instruments, although held as collateral
security, is~also a good consideration; and this; as, well as the
former proposition, is now geilerally Admitted, and is not open
to dispute. (Dupeau v. Waddington, 6 Whar., 220; Hornblower v. Proud, 2-Barn. and Ald., 327; Rideout v. Bristow, 1
Croinp. and Jer., 231; Bank of Salina v. Babcock, 21 -Wend.,
499; Youngs v. Lee, 2 Xer., 551.) It seems now to be agreed,
that if there was a present consideration at the time of the
transfer, independent of the previous indebtednessthat a party
acquiring a negotiable instrument before its maturity as a collateral security to a pre-existing debt, withbut knowledge of
the facts which impeach the title as between the antecedent
parties, thereby becomes a holder in the usual course of business, and that his title is complete, so'that it will be unaffected
by any prior equities between other parties, at least to the extent of Phe previous debt, for which it is held as collateral.
(White v. Springfield Bank, 8 Sand. S. C, 222; New YorkM.
Iron Works v. Smith, 4 Duer, 862.) And the better opinion
seems to be, in respect to parol contracts, as a general rule,
that there is but one measure of the sufficiency of a consideration, and, consequently, whatever would have given validity
to the bill as between the original parties is sufficient to .uphold
a transfer like the one in this case. We afe not aware that
the principle, as thus limited and qualifie d, is now the subject
o)f serious dispute anywhere, and that is amply shfficient.fbr
the decision of this cause. Whether the same conclusion ought
to follow where the transfer was without any other consideration
than what flows from the nature of the contract at the time of
the delivery, and Auch as may be inferred from the relation of
debtor and ireditor in respect to the pre-existing debt, is still
the subject of earnest discussion, and has given rise to no small
diversity of judicial decision. It seems it is regarded as sufficient in England, according to a recent case. (Poirier v. Mor'i, 20 Eng. L, and Eq., 103; Byles on Bills, pp. 96'and 127.)
A contrary rule prevails in New York, as appears by several
decisions. - (Coddington v. Bay, 20 John., 637; Stalker v. MeDonald, 6 Hill, 93; and also in Tehnessee, Napier v. Elam, -5
Yerg., 108.) It is settled that it is a sufficient consideration.
•fn Massachusetts, Vermont, and New Jersey, and such was the
opinionbof the late Justice Story, as appears from his remarks

SUPREME COURT.
Gazzam v. Lessee of Elam P ill!ps el al.

in Swift v. Tyson, and in his valuable treatise on Bills of Exchange. (Stoddard ?J.Kimball, 6 Cush., 469; Story on Bills,
see. 192; Chicopee Bank v. Chapin, 8 Met., 40; Blanchard v.
Stevens, 3 Cush., 162; Atkinson v. Brooks, 26 Ver., 569; Allaire v. Hartshorne, 1 Zab., 665.) We think, however, that the
point does not arise in this case, for the reasons before stated,
and, consequently, forbear to express any opinion upon the subject. The judgment of the Circuit Court is reversed, and the
cause remanded for further proceedings, with directions to issue
a new venire.
CHARLES

W-'

GAZZAM, PLAINTIFF IN

ERROR, V. LESSEE OF

PHILLIPS AND MARY HIS WIFE, AND ASHBEY W.

ELAM

ETHERIDGE.

The decision of this court in the case of Brown v. Clements (3 How., 650) reviewed and controlled.

The quantity of.land granted to a patentee in pursuance of a pre-emption right

under the act of 29th May, 1830, must, in an action at law, be ascertained from
the description in the patent, and cannot be controlled by any supposed original

equity to the whole of a quarter section to which a claim might have been made

before the register and receiver.
Some latitude of discretion is allowed to the surveyor general under thq act of 24th
April, 1820, and the instructions of the land office, in the subdivision of fractional
sections containing more than one hundred and sixty acres; and he is not obliged,
absolutely, and under all circumstances, to lay off a full quarter or half quarter
section, thiough the fraction is capable of such a subdivision.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Supreme
Court of the State of Alabama.
The parties claimed under the same title* which were before
this court in the case of Brown v. Clements, reported in 3
How., 650. 'A diagram is there given, explanatory of the mode
in which the fractional section was divided between Stone and
Etheridge.
The present suit was an ejectment brought in 1850, by Phillips and Etheridge, who claimed under Etheridge's title against
Gazzam, who claimed under that of Stone.
The suit was brought-in the Circuit Court of the county of
Mobile, (State court,) where the verdict and judgment were
for the plaintiffs, in 1855. The charge of the judge to the jury
was in conformity with the opinion of this court in the case
of Brown v. Clements, accompanied with the remark that such
would not have been his charge, if it had not been for the decision of this court in that case.
In March, 1856, the Supreme Court of Alabama affirmed
this judgment, and Gazzam sued out a writ of error to bring
the case to this court.
The case of Brown v. Clements-was argued and decided in

