DECEMBER TERM, 1857.
WUilliam v. Gibbes et al.

585

Gibbet et al. v. William .

JOHN S. WILLIAMS, ADMINISTRATOR OF JAMES WILLIAMS, DECEASED, APPELLANT, V. ROBERT M. GIBBES AND CHARLES
OLIVER, SURVIVING EXECUTORS OF ROBERT' OLIVER, DECEASED;
AND ROBERT M. GIBBES AND CHARLES OLIVER, SURVIVING
EXECUTORS' OF ROBERT OLIVER, DECEASED, APPELLANTS, V.
JOHN S. WILLIAMS, ADMINISTRATOR OF JAMES W
4LMS, DECEASED.
Where 'an assignee of a claim upon a foreign Government, holding it under an
assignment supposed to be good, but afterwards adjudged invalid, prosecuted
the, claim to a successful result, and was subjected to costs and expensqs in
protecting the fund from rival claimantsrand thereby preserving it, he was entitled to a reimbursement of these costs and .expenses by the true owner, upon a
final settlement of accounts between them.
Being placed in the position of a trustee, it was his duty o defend the title, and
the expenses for so doing were pe'perly chargeable to the estate.
The asignee ought also to have been allowed a compensation for his trouble and
personal exertions in. the prosecutiofi of the claim; and under the special circumstances of this case, the Circuit Court having allowed thirty-five'per cent.
of the sum realized, this court are not prepared to say it is too much.
An objection, that the executors of the assignee had distributed a portio'n of the
money in the regular course of administration, should have been made when the
,cause was before this court upon its merits. After a mandate has gone down,.
and the cause came before the Circuit Court for a settlement 6f accounts, the
objection comes too late.
No objection can be made to tbe'Circuit Court allowing a supplemental answer to
be filed when the mandate went down. It was like a. petition to bring before
the court the facts, which were proper to be known before instructions were
given to the master as to the mode of settling the accounts.
THESE were cross appeals from the Circuit Court of the
United States for the'distriet of Maryland. - Iii the report, the
first cas6 only will be mentioned, viz: that of Williams against
Oliver's executors.
The case was formerly before- the court, and is .reported. in
17 How., 239.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

It was argued by Mr. Davis, Mr. -Duany,and Mr. Martin,
for Williams, land by Mr. .Reverdy Johnson and 31r. Campbell
for Oliver's executors.
The decree was for $9,686.33 in money, and $19,215.95 in
stock, instead of $22,866.94 in m oney, and $82,847.77 in stock,
as claimed by the appellant.
Mr. Justice 1TELSO1N delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of -the
United States for thd district of Maiyland.
A bill was filed in the court below by Williams, the present
appellant, to recover of the defendants the proceeds of the share

586

SU-PREME COURT.
Williams v. Gibbea et al.

Gibbe d al. v.. William.

of complainant's intestate in what is known as the Baltimore
Company, which had a claim against the Mexican Government,.
that was awarded to it under the treaty of 1839. The proceeds
of the share amounted'to the sum of $41,806.41. The history
of the litigation to which the award under the treaty gave rise,
in the distribution of the fund among the claimants or the assignees composing the Baltimore Company, will be found in
the report of four of the cases which have heretofore come before this court. (11 How., 529; 12 ib., 111; 14 ib., 610; 17
ib., 233, 239.) -That of Williams v. Gibbes, in 17 How., contains the report of the present case, when formerly here. This
court then decided that the claim of the executors of Oliver to
the share of Williams was not well founded; that the interest of
Williams in the same had not been legally divested during his
lifetime; and that his legal representative then before the court
was entitled to the proceeds. The decree of the court below
was reversed, and the cause remanded for further proceedings,
in conformity with the opinion of the court. Upon the cause
coming down before that court on the mandate, the defendants,
the executors of Oliver, set up several charges against the fund,
which it was claimed shbuld be received and allowed in abatement of the amount.
1. For certain costs and expenses to which they had been
subjected in resisting suits instituted against it by third parties.
The history of these- suits will be found in the cases already
referred to in this court, and need not be stated at large.
2. For services and expenses of Oliver, in his lifetime, in
the prosecution of the claim of the Baltimore Company, as its
attorney and igent before the Government of Mexico, from
the year 1825 down to the time of his death, in 1834.
The court below allowed to the executors the costs and expenses to which they had been subjected in defending the suits
mentioned, and also thirty-five per cent. of the fund in question for the services of Oliver.
The case is one in many of its features novel and peculiar.
James Williams, the intestate, and owner of the share in
the Baltimore Company, became insolvent in 1819, and took
the benefit of the insolvent laws of Maryland, and in 1825 the
insolvent trustee of his estate sold and assigned to Robert Oliver the share in question in this company; and from thence
down to the year 1849, Oliver in his lifetime, and his executors
afterwards, did not doubt but that a perfect title to the share
had passed by virtue of this assignment. In that year, the
Court of Appeals of Maryland decided, in a case between the
executors and an insolvent trustee of Williams, that no title
passed to Oliver by this assignment; and, as a legal conse-

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.
Williads v. Gibbes et al.

Gibe. et al. v. Willams.

quence, it was held by this court, in 17 How., that the interest
remained in Williams at his death, and of course passed to his
legal representative, the complainant.
All the services and expenses, therefore, of Oliver, in his
lifetime, in the prosecution of the claims of the Baltimore
Company against the Government of Mexico, and of the litigation since encountered by his executors in respect to the
share, have resulted in securing the proceeds of the same to
the estate of Williams, the original shareholder. Williams in
his lifetime, and his legal representatives since, down till the
fund was in court awaiting distribution, had taken no steps
for its recovery, nor had they been subjected to any expense.
The whole of the services had been rendered, and expenses
borne, by Oliver and his executors; and the question7 is,
whether, upon any established principles of law or equity,
the court below were right in' taking into the account in the
settlement between the parties these service and expenses.
We are of opinion they were.
By the judgment of the Court of Appeals of Maryland,
Oliver was at no time the true owner of this share, as, notwithstanding the assignment by the insolvent trustee, it still
remained in Williams. Oliver thereby became trustee, instead
of owner, of the share and of the proceeds, as did also his executors, and they must be regarded as holding this relation to the
fund from their first connection with it. In that character the
executors havebeen made accountable to the estate of Williams,.
and have been responsible since the fund came into their possession for all proper care and management of the same. In
defending these proceeds, therefoie, against suits instituted by
third parties to recover them out of the hands of the executors,
they have done no more nor less than they were bound to -do,
as the proper guardians of the fund, if they had known at the
time the relation in which they stood to it, and that they were
defendingit for the benefit of the estate of Williams, and not
for that of Oliver. The services rendered and expenses borne
could not have been dispensed with, consistent with their duties
as trustees.
But it is said that these suits were defended by the executors,
while claiming the fund in right of their testator, and hence
lor the supposed benefit of his estate; that the defence was not
made in their character of trustees, and cannot, therefore, be
regarded as a ground Tor -charging the estate of Williams with
the costs of the litigation.
The answer to this viewis, that although in point offact the
defence was made under the supposition that the fund belonged
to the estate of Oliver, yet, in judgment of law, it was made

SUPREME COURT.

-538

Wiarm v. Gibbu d aL

Gbbea d at. v. Wilham2.

by them as trustees, and niot owners, as subsequently judicially
ascertained; and as the dosts and expenses were properly incurred in the protection and preservation of the fund, it is but
just and equitable they should be made a charge upon it.
The misapprehension as to the right cannot change the beneficial character of the expense, when indispensable to its secuithe duty of a trustee, whether of real or personal estate, to
defend the title, at law or in equity, in case a suit is brought
against it, is unquestioned, and the expenses are properly chargeable in his accounts against the estate. (2 Story Eq. Jurs.,
sec. 1275.)
Another principle which we think applicable to this case is
to be found in a class of cases where a bonafide purchaser, for a
valuable consideration, without notice, has enhanced the value
of the property by permanent expenditures, and has been subsequently evicted by the true owner, on account of some latent
infirmity in the title. It is well settled, if the true owner is
obliged to come into a court of equity to obtain relief against
the purchaser, the court will first, require reasonable compensation for such expenditures to be made, upon the principle
that he who seeks equity must first do equity. (2 Story Eq.,
secs. 799 and 7996; 6 Paige R., 403, 404; 1 Story Rep., 494,
495.)

.

*LA kndred principle is also found in a class of cases where
there has been a bona fide adverse possession of the property
tacitlyacquiesced in by the true owner. The practice of a court
of equity, in such cases, does not permit an account of rents
and profits to be carried back beyond the filing of the bill. (8
Wheat., 78; 27 E. L. and E. Rep., p. 212; 7 Ves., 541; 1 Ed.
Oh., 579.) This principle is applicable where the person in
possession is a bona fide purchaser, and there has been some
degree of remissness, or negligepee, or inattention, on the part
of the true owner, in the assertion of his rights.
Courts of equity, it would seem, do not grant active relief in
favor of a bona fide purchaser, making'permanent meliorations
-and improvements by sustaining a bill brought by him against
the true owner, after he has succeeded in recovering the property at law. (6 Paige R, 890, 403, 404, 405; 1 Story R., 495;
8 Wh., 81, 82.)
The civil law in this respect is mbre liberal, and provides a
remedy in behalf of the purchaser, even beyond an abatement
of the rents and profits for such expenditures as have enhanced
the value of the estate, (cases above;) and, indeed, generally
applies the principle in favor of any bonafide possessor of propertv who has in good faith expended his money for its preser-

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.
iliams v. Gibbas d al.

589-

GUm et al. V. Williams.

vation or amelioration; otherwise,'it is said, the true owner
appropriates unjustly the property of another to himself. (Touillier, 3 B., tit. 4, oh. 1, sees. 10, 20.)

Now, in the case before us, Oliver, in 1825, purchased this
share in the Baltimore Company for the consideration of $2,000,
its full value at the time. The purchase Was made from the
insolvent trustee of Williams, whom all parties concerned be-:
lieved had the power to sell and transfer. the title. Williams,
down till his death in 1836, set up no claim to it, nor did his
representative after his death till August, 1852, when this bill
was filed. Oliver and his executors had been in the undisturbed
possession, so far as respects any claim under the preseht right,
for the period of twenty-seven years. And although it may be
said in excuse for any remissness, and by way of avoiding the
consequences of delay, that Williams, and th6se representing
him, had no knowledge of the defect in the title till the decision of the Court of Appeals of Maryland; it may be equally
said, on the other hand, that Oliver and his executors were
alike ignorant of it, and had in good'faith expended their timt
and money in recovering the claim against the Government of
Mexico, and afterwards in defending it against a long and ex"
pensive litigation.
It is difficult to present a stronger case for the protection of
a bona fide purchaser from loss, who has expended time and
-.money in enhancing the -value of the subject of the purchase,
or a case in which the principle more justly applies, that where
the true owner seeks the aid of a court of equity to enforce such
a title, -the court will administer that aid only when making
compensation to the purchaser. We are, therefore, of opinion
that the court below was right in allowing in the account the
costs and fees paid to counsel by -. executors in the defence
of.the suits.
.In respect to'the thirty-five per cent. allowed for the prosecution
of the claim against the Government of Mexico, it stands, in
principle,
upon the same footing as other services and expenses
incurred in protecting and preserving the ffiiid after posdesion
was obtained. The amount of compensation 'depends upon
the proofs in the case as to the value of the service, and which
must, in a good degree, be governed by the usual and cusitomary charges allowed for similar services and expenses.. As *his
claim was prosecuted with, others by Oliver when he supposed
and believed that he was the owner, and that he was acting on
his own behalf, and not as trustee for Williams, the rate of
compensation mu# rest upon all the facts and circumstances
attending the service. There could have been no agreement
as to the compensation. Aind for the same reason, it cannot

540

SUPREME COURT.
William v. Gibbes et al. Gibbes et al. v. William.

be expected that an account of the service and expenses was
kept so as to.enable the court to arrive with exactness at the
proper sum to be allowed, as might have been required, if Oliver had been chargeable with notice of the trust. The proofs
show that Oliver appointed agents to represent him at the Government of Mexico as early as March, 1825, and that these
agencies were continued from thence down till his death in
134; and that during all this time he kept up an active correspondence with them and others, and with our ministers at Mexico, and with his own Government, on the subject. The justice
of these claims had been acknowledged by the Government of
Mexico as early as 1823-'4, but no provision was made for their
payment. They were regarded as of very little value, from the
hopelessness of their recovery; and it is perhaps not too much
to say, upon the evidence, that in the absence of the vigorous
and efficient prosecution of them by Oliver, they would have
been worthless. In the result, for the share in question, which
was sold in 1825 for $2,000, there was realized from the Government of Mexico, under the treaty of 1839, the sum of
$41,306.41. The estate of Williams has never expended a
dollar towards recovering it; nor has Oliver ever received any
compensation for his servicess. The amount may seem large,
but we cannot say the court below was not warranted in allowing it upon the proofs in the case of the great service rendered,
and of the customary charges in similar cases.
It has been urged by the executors of Oliver, that they had
paid over three-eighths of the fund in the distribution of the
estate before the filing of the bill in this case, and that they are
not, therefore, liable for that portion of the fund. It is claimed
that it was shown before the master that this portion was paid
over in the regular course of administration, and as in duty
bound by the laws of the State of Maryland. If this had appeared when the cause was heard upon the merits, and the
question as to the right to this fund, was determined, the ground
now taken might possibly have been a good defence to that
portion of the fund; and the complainant would have been
sent to the distributees to recover it. This, however, may
not be entirely certain; for there is authority for saying, that
a trustee having notice that it is doubtful if the trust fund
should be distributed according to the trusts under which he
holds it, he should apply to the court for its direction before
he executed the trust, by paying over the fund. (27 E. L. and
Eq. R., p. 802.) In this case, the executors of Oliver had notice of the defect of the title of their testator after the decision
of the Court of Appeals. But be this as it may, we think the
question of liability, to the extent of the whole of the fund,

DECEMBER TERM, 857.

541

Whyte v. Gibbea et aL, Cibbem et aL v. Whyte.

was disposed of in the case when before us on the merits, and
was not reserved for the hearing on the adjustment of the
accounts before the court below, on 'the coming down of the
mandate. (17 How., 257..)
An objection has been made by the counsel for-the appelperlant, Williams, inrespect to the order of the court below,
mitting a supplemental answer. We suppose this question
rather a matter of practice than otherwise, resting in the discretion of the court below, and as a matter of convenience
preparatory to the taking- of the account before the master.
The answer-and, for aught we see, the object in viev might
as well have been attained by-a petition to the court; stating
the facts-was put in for the purpose of bringing to the notice
of the court the matters relied on in the adjustment of the accounts, and by way of charges to be deducted from the amount
claimed. The proceeding enabled the court to give in advance
directions to the master in making the settlement, and thereby
narrow the grounds of controversy before him, and facilitate
the hearing. It could work no prejudice to either party, foi
no claim by way of abatement of the account thus set up in the
answer or petition should be allowed by the court, but -what
was pertinent to the subject of examination before the master.
Upon the whole, we are satisfied the decree of the court below was right, and ought to be affirmed.
* Mr. Justice GRIER dissented.

WILLIAM PINKNEY WHYE, ADMINISTRATOR DE B30NIS N~ON OF
'JOHN GOODING, DECEASED, APPELLANT, V. ROBERT M. GIBBES
AND CHARLES OLIVER, SURVIVING EXECUTORS OF ROBERT OLI.VER, DECEASED; AND ROBERT M. GIBBES AND CHAR*LES OLIVER,
SURVIVING EXECUTORS OF ROBERT OLIVER, DECEASED, APPELLANTS, V. WTLMIAM PINKNEY WHYTE,. ADMINISTRATOR DE
BONIS NON OF JOHN GOODING, DECEASED.
Where the defendant appeared to a bill in chancery, and defended the suit, and no
want of jurisdiction appeared in the record, and then the complainant died, an
objection that the defendants were citizens of another State comes too late when
made to a bill of revivor, which- iar.nly a contiiiuance of the suit.
Moreover; a plea to the jurisdictin -comes too7l.te after a mandate has gone down
-from this-court to the court below.

-THESE -erd cross appeals from the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District 6f Maryland, and were argued
together with the preceding-cage by the same counsel.

