DEOEM1BER TERM, 1857.

65

Dynes v. Hoover.

to make them, and the bona fides of its exercise, in order to'
prevent imposition-and frauds.
The court below appears to have been very much pressed
with the unsatisfactory character of the evidence, and with
doubts as to the genuineness of the title, and seems to have
yielded iather to the apparent acquiescence of the representative of the Government, in the decision of the commissioners,
than to any settled convictions of its own judgment.
'We should not hesitate -to reverse ihe decree below, and
direct a decree against the claimant, were it not that the mode
and manner of conducting the case, both before the commissioners and the District Court, on behalf of the Government,
may have misled him; for, if the objections here stated had
been made at the proper time before either of the tribunals, it.
may have been in his power to have removed them by the introduction of further evidence. It would be unjust, therefore,
to deprive him, under the circumstances, of the opportunity to
furnish such evidence.
We shall therefore reverse the decree, and remand the casd
to the court below for.a further hearing.-

FRANK DYNES, PLAINTIFF IN ERR R, v. JONAR

D.

-oovER.

The Constitution of the United States gives to Congress the power to provide anc:
maintain a navy, and to make rules for its government.

In the exercise of this power, Congress provided for the punishment of desertion
and of other crimes not specified in the articles, which should be punished according to the'laws and customs in such cases at sea. ,
'Where a seaman was charged with deserting, and the court marti l found him

guilty of attempting to desert, the court had jurisdiction over the subject-matter,
and an action of trespass for false imprisonment will not lie against the ministerial officer who executes the sentence for attenipting to desert.
It is only where a court has no jurisdiction over the subject-matter, or, having
tuch jurisdiction, is bound to adopt certain rules in its proceedings, from which
it deviates, whereby the proceedings are rendered earam nonjudice, that an action.

will lie against the officer who executes its judgment.
The authorities upon this point examined, and also tie legal powers of courts
martial.

THIs case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holden
in and for the county of Washington.
Dynes was a seaman in the navy, who was tried by a court
martial upon a charge of desertion, who found him not guilty
of deserting, but guilty of attempting to desert; and sentenced.
him to be confined in the penitentiary of the District of Columbia at hard labor, without pay, for the term of six months from
the date of the approval of the sentence, and nof to bhe again
VOL. XX.

5

66

-SUPREME COURT.
Dyre v. Hoover.

enlisted in the naval service. Whereupon, the President of
the United States directed Hoover, the marshal of the District,
to commit him to the penitentiary.
'The proceedings of the Circuit Court are stated in the
opinion of the court.
The case was argued by M1r. Charles Lee Jones for the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. Gillet for the defendant. There was
also a brief on that side, filed by Mr. Cushing, the late Attorney
General.
Mr. Jones commenced his argument with a review of someof the principles of military law pertinent to the issue; after
which, he proceeded to state his points, of which there is room
to notice only the following, viz:
That the judgment and sentence of the court martial was an
absolute nullity, and affords no sort of justification to any one
executing process under it.
The following well-settled principles of law cannot be controverted: "That when a court has jurisdiction, it has a right
to decide every question before it; and if its decision is merely
erroneous, and not irregularand void, it is binding on every other
court until reversed. But if the subject-matter is not within
its jurisdiction, or where it appears, from the conviction itself,
that they have been guilty of an excess, or have decided on
matters beyond and not within their jurisdiction, all is void,
and their judgments, or sentences, are regarded in law as nullities. They constitute no justification; and all persons concerned in executing such judgments, or sentences, are trespassers, and liable to an action thereon." (1 Peters, 340; 2
Peters, 169; Griffith v. Frazier, 8 Cranch, 9; 14 How., 144;
Wicks v. Caulk, 5 Harris and Johns., 42; Bigelow v. Stearns,
19 Johns., 39; Case of the Marshalsea, 10 Co. R., 76; Terry
v. Huntington, HardresR., 480; Shergoldv. Hollway, 2 Strange,
1002; Hill v. Bateman, 1 Strange; 710; Perkin v. Proctor, 2
Wilson, 882; Dr. Bouchier's Case, cited, 2 Wilson, 386; Martin v. Marshall and Key, cited, 2 Wilson, 386; Parsons v. Lloyd,
3 Wilson, 341; Miller v. Seare, 2 Win. Black. R., 1145; Crepps
v. Durden, Cowp., 640; Groome v. Forrester, 5 M. and S., 314;
Warne v. Varley, 6 Term, 443; Brown v. Compton, 8 Term,
424; Moravia v. Sloper, Willes R., 30; Peacock v. Bell, 1
Saunders, 74; 8 Term, 178; 2 Win. Black., 1035; The King
v. Dugger, 1 Dowl. Ry., 460; 3 Campbell's R., 388; Doswell
v. Impy, 1 Barn. and Cress., 169; 13 Johns., 444.)
"A court martial is one of those inferior courts of limited
jurisdiction whose judgments may be questioned collaterally.

-DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

67

Dynca v. Hoover

It is an inferior court in the most technical common-law sense
of those words. It is called into existence for a special and
limited purpose, and to perform a particular duty; and when
the object of its creation is accomplished, it ceases to exist.
The law will intend nothing in its favor. The decision of such
a tribunal, in a case without its jurisdiction, cannot protect the
officer who executes it. The court and the officer are all trespassers." (Wise v. Withers, 8, Cranch, 837; -Ex parte Watkins, 3 Peters, 208; Mills v. Martin, 19 Johns., 32; Smith v.
Shaw, 12 Johns., 267; Brooks v. Adams, 11 Pickering, 442;
Duffield v. Smith, 3 Sergt. and Rawle, 599; 8 Greenleaf's Ev.,
§ 470; Warden v. Baily, 4 Taunt., 67; Frye v. Ogle, 1 McArthur, .Ap., No. 24, and Hickman, Ap., No. 17; Moore v. Bastard, 2 McArthur, 194, 200; 1 McArthur, chap. 10, § 9, p. 264,
272; Hannaford v. Hunn, 2 Carr. and Payne, 148; Wharton's
American Law of Homicide, p. 52.
Two essential vices appear on the face of the proceedings
of the court martial in question, either of which would alone
render their whole proceedings irregular and void.
1. The finding was in a cause goram non judie, it being for
an offence of which the plaintiff was never charged, and of
which the court had no cognizance.
2. The subject-matter of the sentence, the punishment inflicted, was not within their jurisdiction, and is a punishment
which they had no sort of permission or authority bf law to
inflict. (See Hickman, p. 149, 152, and 1 McArthur, 158.)
1st. The court martial was brought into' existence by the
order or precept of the Secretary of the Navy, and the plaintiff "legally brought before it," for the trial of his guilt or
innocence of the following "charge and specification of a
charge preferred by the Secretary of the -Navy," and to no
other legal intent or purpose whatsoever:
"Ch6arqe.-Desertion.
"Sp ecflcation.-In this, that on or about the twelfth day of
September, in the year 1854, the said Frank Dynes deserted
from the U~nited States ship Independence, at New York.
"J. C. DOBBn, Secretary of the Vavy."
Now, here is a charge, with its specification, drawn up with
every desired legal requisite of certainty and perspicuity, notifying the accused of the circumstances and facts to be brought
in issue, and warning him of the evidence essential to establish
his innocence. Of this charge, and of this charge only had
the court martial jurisdiction to try him, (see 2 McArthur, p,
221,) and their decision as to his guilt or innocence upon this
charge, would be as absolute and final as would be the decision
of any other court.on matters within their jurisdiction.

68

SUPREME COURT.
Dynes v. Hoover.

But the court martial acquitted him of the only charge legally brought before them, the only subject-matter whereof they
had cognizance, but found him guilty of another offence, of
which they had no sort of jurisdiction-an offence as yet unknown to the law, not enumerated in the naval articles as
one of the crimes within the cognizance of a court martialthus convicting him of an offence not included in the charge
or specification before the court, but a new offence, depending
upon different facts and circumstances, and against the accusation of which they gave him not the least time or slightest
warning to defend himself.
The finding of the court was as follows:
The court "do find the accused, Frank Dynes, seaman of
the United States navy, as follows: Of the specification of the
charge, guilty of attempting to desert; of the charge, not guilty
of deserting, but guilty of attempting to desert."
This finding is in direct violation of the oath which, by the
36th article of the act of Congress for the government of the
navy, each member of the court is required to take, "before
proceeding to trial," that he "will truly try, without prejudice
or partiality, the case now depending." And of the 38th article, which declares that "all charges on which an application
for a general court martial is founded, shall be exhibited in
writing to the proper officer, and the person demanding the
court shull take care that the person accused be furnished with
a true copy of the charges, with the specifications, at the time
lie is put under arrest; nor shall any other charge or charges
than those so exhibited be urged against the person to be tried
before the court," unless under the circumstances there enumerated, "in which case reasonable time shall be given to the
person to be tried, to make his defence against such new charge."
(See Macomb on Courts Martial, § 35 and § 36, p. 26; De Hart,
p. 102; Tytler, 217.)
It is true that, at common law, the jury may frequently find
the prisoner guilty of a minor offence, included in the charge,
or of a part of the offence therein specified; as on an indictment
for petit treason he may be found guilty of murder or of manslaughter, for both these offences are included in the charge,
as is also the offence of manslaughter in the charge of murder;
and under an indictment charging an assault with intent to
murder the party, may be convicted of a simple assault only;
or under an indictment charging an assault with intent to
abuse and carnally know, the defendant may be convicted of
an assault with intent to abuse simply. (1 Chitty's Crim. Law,
250, 251.)
In these cases, every fact and circumstance which is-a neces-

•DEOE-MBER TERM, 1857.
Dynes v. Hoover.

sary ingredient in the offence is set forth in the indictment,
and the party is enabled to determine the species of offence he
will be called upon to answer, and the evidence necessary to
establish his innocence.
But on an indictment for felony he cannot be convicted of a
misdemeanor, because the offences are distinct in their nature,
and of a distinct legal character.
Nor can a party be convicted, on an indictment for a specific
offence, of an attempt to commit that offence. (4 Blac. Com.,
p. 306, note.) Thus, on an indictment for burglariously breaking and entering a dwelling-house and stealing the goods
mentioned, the party may be acquitted of the burglary, and
convicted of the larceny, it being included in the charge; but
he cannot be acquitted of the burglary and stealing, and convicted of a burglary with intent to steal, or to commit any
other felony, for they are distinct offences. (See Vandercomb and Abbott's case, 2 Leach C. L., 828 to 833; 1 Rusgell
on Crimes, 831; Com. v. Roby, 12 Pickering, 505, 506, 507; 4
Blac. Com., 306, note.)
So, on an indictment for murder, he cannot be acquitted of the
murder, and convicted of an assault with intent to murder.
He is before the court charged with a specific offence, and is
prepared only to defend himself against that charge, and the
matter therein specified; he mayentirely rely upon the evidence
of the very man of whose murder he is charged to prove that
no homicide has been committed. It would then be in violation of every principle of law to convict him, without warning,
of a different offence, depending on different facts and circunmstances; thus the fundamental doctrine of the law requires the
proof admissible, much less the finding or verdict, to correspond with the allegations, and to be confined to the point in
issue.
Courts martial, following, these principles of the common
law, may also find a party guilty of a minor offence included
in the charge. As on a charge of desertion, they may acquit
of that charge, and find the party guilty of "absence without
leave, for this offence is of a like nature, and all its ingredients are included in the charge, for absence is the principal
question in issue. (Tytler, 321, 322, 823; Adie, 185, 186, 187.)
But attempting to desert is altogether a distinct offence, depending upon different facts and circumstances, of which the
party has had no notice. He may be conscious of not having
deserted, and may expect to establish his innocence of that
charge by circumstances and facts which would render his
being guilty of such an offence absolutely impossible. Then
would it not be of the very essence of tyranny, in violation of

SUPREME COURT.
Dwv. Hoover.

all those immutable principles of right and justice which are
the foundation of martial as well as every other law, to find
him guilty, and to inflict a punishment for this other offence
never before the court, and of which he never had the least
time or notice to make his defence?
Besides, "absence without leave ' is, by the British mutiny
act. and the 21st article of the act of Congress for the government of the army, (April 10, 1806, 2 Stat. at Large, p. 362,)
made a military offence within the cognizance of an army court
martial.
But "attempting to desert" is not enumerated by the articles for the government of the navy as an offence within the
cognizance of a naval court martial. A naval court martial
derives its sole being from, and is the mere creature of, the act
of Congress, and has no jurisdiction of any other offences than
such as are therein enumerated as within their cognizance.
"When a new court is erected, it can have no other jurisdiction than that which is expressly conferred, for a new court
cannot prescribe." (4 Inst., 200.)
But it may be contended that the 32d article covers this
offence, which article is in these words: "All crimes committed by persons belonging to the navy, which are not specified in the foregoing articles, shall be punished according to
the laws and customs at sea." Such a construction would be
leaving the definition of crimes "at sea" indeed, and a shoreless and uncharted sea, and would render the previous minute
enumeration of what offences might be tried and punished by
a court martial quite useless. The probable proper construction to put on this article is, that it refers to such offences as
are not of sufficient magnitude to be punished by a court
martial, and leaves them to be punished according to the
usages of the sea. However this may be, the offence at any
rate should have been legally brought before the court by a
charge and specification preferred by the proper authority,
and it might then have been within the jurisdiction of the
court to have decided whether or not they could take cognizance of it under the 32d article; as it is, the cause was
coram nonjudce, and their judgment and sentence is not voidable, but absolutely void. (Hickman, 179, 149; 1 McArthur,
171; 2 ib., 221, 298, 199.)
The ground on which the judgment of the House of Lords,
in the Banbury case, was held not to conclude the question,
"was because the proper course had not been pursued to
bring the question of peerage in judgment before the Lords,
and therefore it was coram nonjudice, for the resolutions of the
Lords, in that case, were taken upon a petition from the de-

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

71

.Dyne.8 V. Hoover.

fendant to the House itself; whereas, the proper course for
the trial of the right of peerage is by petition from the claimant to the King, who thereupon refers it to the Lords."
"Here was no judgment. A court can give nojudgment in a
thing not depending, or that does not come in a judicial way
before the court." (2 Salk., 511; Burdett v. Abbott, 14 East,
106; Skinner R., 522, 524.)
"If 'a judge of an ecclesiastical court excommunicates a
party for a cause of which he bath not legal cognizance, or
where the party has not been previously served with a citation or monition, nor had due notice, an action lies ag'ainst
him." (Beaurain v. Scott, 3 Campbell's R., 388; 3 black.
Comm., 101.)
The argument of lir.Jones and that of Xr. Gillet, upon the
legality of using the penitentiary as the place of punishment,
are omitted.
.Mr. Gillett made the following points:
FIRST.-The naval court martial had jurisdiction of the offence
of which the Vkaintiff was convicted.
Among the powers conferred upon Congress by the 8th
section of the first article, are fhe following:
"To provide and maintain a navy.
"To make rules for the government and regulation of the
land and naval forces."
The 8th amendment, which requires a presentment of a
grand jury in cases of capital or otherwise infamous crime
expressly excepts from its operation "cases arising in the land
or naval forces."
These provisions show that Congress has- the power to provide for the trial and punishment of military and naval
offences in the manner then and now practiced by .civilized
nations.
In the exercise of the powers thus conferred upon the leolative department, the act of the 23d of April, 1820, (2 V. S..,
p. 45,) was passed.
The 17th article of said act provides"And if any person in the navy shall desert, or entice
others to desert, he shall suffer death, or such other punishment as a court martial shall adjudge."
The 32d provides-.
"All crimes committed by persons belonging to the navy,
which are not specified in the foregoing articles, shall be punished according fo the laws and customs in s.uch cases at sea."
Congress specified a limited number of offences, and among

72

S UPREME COURT.
Dynes v. ioover.

them desertion; and then, in the thirty-second article, made
provision for all possible cases which could occur in the naval
service.
Among the offences which may be committed, is the
attempt to desert. Desertion is where a person, bound by his
enlistment to remain in service, in violation of his duty
escapes from the control of those in command. An attempt
to desert is where the motive to desert is conceived, and an
effirt made to carry it into effect, but which is not fully accomplished, owing to the want of success, or to a change of
urpose. Such an offence deserves punishment in a degree
ut little below successful desertion. It is clearly one of the
unspecified offences provided for in the 32d article.
The 35th article provides for the appointment of courts
of trying
martial. These courts are created
service.for the purpose
all cases arising in the naval
The 38th article provides, that charges shall be made in
writing, wbich was done in this case. It appealrs, by the
record, that the court was lawfully constituted; that the
charge was made in writing; that Dynes appeared and
pleaded to the charge. If he had been found guilty of desertion, no complaint could have been made against the conviction for want of jurisdiction in the court. But, as it
appears that the court, instead of finding him guilty of the
high offence of desertion, which authorizes the punishment
of death, convicted him of the inferior offence of attempting
to commit the crime, it is assumed that the court had no jurisdiction of the case. This assumption cannot be sustained.
It is a well-settled rule, that where a person is charged with
a high offence, he may be convicted of a lower one of the
same class.
In the People v. Jackson, 3 Hill N. Y. R., 92, Cowen, J.,
in delivering the opinion of the Supreme Court, said:
"The case is, in principle, like a conviction of manslaughter
under an indictment for murder; or of simple larceny, under
an indictment for burglary or robbery. The indictment
charges facts enough, and more than enough, to make out a
misdemeanor; and the prosecution in such case is never
holden to fail, merely because all the alleged circumstances
are not proved, if such as are proved make out a crime,
though of an inferior degree. This has been uniformly held by
the English courts, where the crime proved is of the same generic character with that charged; for instance, where the proof
is of an inferior felony, and the indictment charges a higher."
In the People v. -White, 22 Wen., 167, 176, the Supreme
Court of New York laid down the same rule.

DECE'I\BER TERM, 1857.

73

Dynes v. Hoover.

:Roscoe, in his work on Criminal Evidence, p. 99, cites
numerous casds to prove that this rule is correct and sound.
The same principles are laid down in Phillipps's Evidence,
p. 203.
In Chitty's Criminal Law, 1st vol., pp. 250, 251, the same
i ule is stated, and many cases cited to prove it correct.
These rules are equally applicable to court-martial cases.
Writers on courts martial lay down similar rules.
O'Brien says: "When the offence named in the charge
admits of less degrees of criminality, the court may find the
specification to amount to only one of these lesser'degrees of
the same crime." P. 265.
.De Hart says: "In the deliberation of the court npon the
finding to be declared, it is necessary also to observe the distinction s which may be made between the crime as alleged in
the charge, and the de-rde of offence proved. A court martial, therefore, may insome instances find a prisoner guilty
of the offence in a less degree than that stated. For example,
a prisoner charged -with desei'tion may be acquitted of the
roharge, and found guilty of absence without leave. Here it
is manifest that the offence proved is of the same character as
the one cliarged, but diffiring in degree, arising from the intention of the accused party. So, in all such, or similar find.ngs of a court martial, must there exist a kindred nature
between the offences, as it would clearly be a violation of
justice to find a prisoner guilty of a crime differing in kind,
and therefore not depending upon degree of culpability, from
that with which he stands charged."
"It is evident, too, that as a prisoner stands charged with a
specific offence, and necessarily defends himself from the
accusation as laid, a court martial, although empowered to
find him guilty in a less degree, cannot find a higher degree
of guilt than that alleged in the charge." Pp. 184, 185.
Simmons says: "It is scarcely necessary to remark, that the
punishments peculiar to desertion cannot be awarded on conviction of absence without leave, however aggravated; and that
an offender, charged with desertion, may be found guilty of
the minor crime, absence without leave, and receive judgment
accordingly." Pp. 338, 339.
These authorities show that tie same rule which prevails in
the judicial courts is applied by military tribunals, where less
technical nicety prevails. The great object in view in courts
martial is to secure justice in the simplest manner possible.
De Hart says, (p. 146,) "The same technical nicety which.
courts of civil jurisdiction observe in criminal cases is not de>sirable or necessary in the proceedings of a court martial, and

74

SUPREME COURT.
Dyne8 v. Hoover.

exceptions made to form or matter are only admitted by them
when such appear essential to abstract justice." Certainly,
abstract justice does not, in this case, require technical nicety.
Justice has been fully administered, in a manner common to
criminal tribunals and courts martial, and then no error has
been committed.
The authorities above cited show that, on a charge for a
higher offence, the accused could be tried and convicted of a
less one of the same generic character. Were this not so, if
the proof failed to show the accused guilty of the higher offence,
he would escape all punishment, as the trial and acquittal for
such higher offence might be pleaded in bar to an indictment
for the inferior one. The court having had unquestioned jurisdiction in the case presented in the charge and specification
contained in the record, it clearly included whatever could be
tried under them. The cases show that the accused could be
tried for the lesser offence covered by the more extensive one,
formally presented against him. It follows, that the court had
ample jurisdiction to try and determine it. Having the authority to try the plaintiff, the decision upon the question of his
guilt is conclusive upon him, and is not the subject of review
in this court; though, if it were, its correctness would not be
questioned after reading the evidence.
SECoND.-As the court had jurisdiction,no errors commilted in its

exercise can be reviewed or corrected by this court.
Courts martial have original jurisdiction in all offences committed by persons in the naval service, when convened according to law, and such offences are brought to their consideration
in the manner specified in the statute. :No reviewing tribunal
has been established, although the Secretary of the Wavy and
the President, in effect, act as revising officers, where their
concurrence is required before the adjudication of the court
can be carried into effect. The decisions of courts martial are
as conclusive as those of any other tribunal. Their jurisdiction
is -eneral over a class, and is exclusive as to all naval offences.
Whether they exercise it wisely or erroneously, while they
keep within such jurisdiction, is not the subject of review by
other, courts. The matter becomes resjudicata.
In this case, the question of the guilt of the plaintiff is finally
and conclusively settled. The court had full power to direct
punishment. In some cases the statute defines that punishment, but it is generally left to the discretion of the court trying the accused.
The plaintiff insists that the court exceeded its jurisdiction
in requiring him to be imprisoned for six months, at hard labor,
in the penitentiary of the District of Columbia. The 82d arti-

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.
DL~fnes v. hoover.

cle of the act of 1800 is referred to as proof of this. It is in
these words:
",All crimes committed by persons belonging to the navy,
which are not specified in the foregoing articles, shall be punished according to the laws and customs in such cases at sea."
It is contended by the plaintiff, that the punishment adjudged
is not according to the laws and customs in such cases at sed.
But this does not appear. Those prescribed in the statute
itself are applicable to the cases therein specified. The present
case relates to those not distinctly enumerated in the statute,
but to such as are authorized by the laws and customs in cases
at sea. Who shall determine this question? Is it a question
of law, or of fact?
If it is a question of law, it was clearly one for the court
martial sitting to determine, and their decision is final, and not
reviewable here.' It was the duty of that court to pass upon
this very question, Nihen they were determining the punishment to be inflicted. It was- clearly within their jurisdiction,.
and it -was their duty to consider and pass upon it. They did
so, and their decision is binding upon the parties to that trial,
and cannot be reviewed here.
If it were a question of fact, it was equally the duty of the
court martial to consider and determine it upon the evidence
before them; and that determination is equally conclusive as
if it were a question of law.
It is clear, that the question of punishments authorized by
the laws and customs of sea is one purely of fact. Such-customs and laws are not written in books, but exist as matters
*of fact, resting in tradition and practice. This court cannot
know them as a matter of law, and certainly not as a matter
of fact. How can this court say that imprisonment at hard
labor is not a common punishment for offences, where not
specified in the statute,, in case of offences at sea? Imprisonment is clearly one mode of punishment for.many offences
known to our laws, including those regulating the naval service; although not specified in words. " There are some thirty
crimes specified in the statute, where the punishment is within
the discretion of the court martial. This may be, by being
shut up in the hold, or confined on the deck of a ship, or confinement at such place, at sea or on land, as the court.think
proper. The sentence may include hard labor or not, at the
discretion of the court.
. There is nothing in the statute to show that the undeflned
crimes and punishments may not be dealt with: in the same"
manner. No"law or usage is shown in the record on this subject. It follows, that there is no law or usage to restrain the

76

SUPREME COURT.
Dynes v. Boover.

court in relation to the punishment that may be inflicted in
the non-enumerated cases. If the plaintiff had believed that,
in adjudicating the punishment, the court martial had exceeded
the customary and lawful punishment for such offences, he
should have framed an issue of fact upon that point, and have
gone to the jury upon it, instead of raising an issue of law,
where such fact cannot be determined. Instead of doing so,
he comes here and asks this court to determine, as a matter of
fact, the laws and usages of the sea, where the statute has
failed to define them. This court cannot be lawfully called
upon, in suits of law, to pass upon any such question.
. The very points nowv ip dispute were legitimately before the
court martial for its determination. The accused could be
heard upon all questions of law and fact. He gave such evidence, as to both, as he saw fit. The court considered the case
as presented, and disposed of these same questions as a part
of its duty, and thus they become finally and conclusivcly settled; and the proceeding having been approved by the Secretary, this court is bound to consider them rightfully settled.
But, if it should not, still the adjudication is binding upon it.
This view of the case is sustained by the highest authority.
In Martin v. Mott, 12 Wheat., pp. 19, 29, 30, this court held
that "the authority to decide whether the exigencies contemplated in the Constitution of the United States and the act of
Congress of 1795, in which the President has authority to call
forth the militia 'to execute the laws of the Union, suppress
insurrections, and repel invasions,' have arisen, is exclusively
vested in the President, and his decision is conclusive upon all
other persons."
In Watkins case, 3 Peters, 193, p. 202, the question of the
effect of a judgment was fully considered in this court. In
delivering the opinion, Story, J., said:
"4 judgment, in its nature, concludes the subject on which
it is rendered, and pronounces the law of the case. The judgment of a court of record, whose jurisdiction is final, is as conclusive on all the world as the judgment of this court would
be. It is as conclusive on this court as it is on other courts. It
puts'an end to inquiry concerning the fact, by deciding it."
In Wilcox v. Jackson, 13 Peters, 498, p. 511, this court,
speaking of the conclusiveness of judgments, said:
"This proposition is true in relation to every tribunal acting
judicially, whilst acting within the sphere of their jurisdiction,
where no appellate tribunal is created; and even when there
is such an appellate power, the judgment is conclusive when
it only comes collaterally into uestion, so long as it is unreversed."

DECEMEBER TEIRM, 1857.

77

Dymne. v. Hoover.

In Elliott v. Piersol, 1 Peters, 328, p. 34,0, this court held:
"'Where a court has jurisdiction, it has a right to decide every
question 'which occurs in the cause; and whether its decisions be
correct or otherwise, its judgment, until reversed, is regarded
as binding in every other court.'?
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff brought an action for assault and battery and
.fIalse imprisonment, charging that the defendant imprisoned
him in the penitentiary of the District of Columbia. The defendant pleaded the general issue, and several special pleas, in
which he denied the force and injury, and set up, that he, as
marshal of the District of Columbia, imprisoned the plaintiff
by virtue of the authority of the President of the United States,
in the execution of a sentence of a naval court martial, convened under an act of Congress of the 23d of April, 1800; which
sentence was approved by the Secretary of the Navy, which
was final and absolute, and-denying the jurisdiction of the
court. The plaintiff filed a retraxit, admitting that there was
no battery, other than the imprisonment in pursuance of the
sentence of the court martial.
The charge by the Secretary of the Navy was desertion, with
this specification: "that-on or about the twelfth day of September, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred
and fifty-four, Frank Dynes deserted from the United States
ship Independence, at New York." He pleaded not guilty.
After hearing the evidence, the court declared, "we do find
the accused, Frank Dynes, seaman of th&United States navy,
as follows: Of the specification of the charge, guilty of attempting to desert; of the charge, not guilty of deserting, but guilty of
attemnpting to desert; and the court do thereupon sentence the
said Frank Dynes, a seaman of the United States navy, to be
confined in the penitentiary of the District of Columbia, at hard
laboi, without pay, for the term of six months from the date of
the approval of this sentence, and not to'be-again enlisted in the
naval service." This conviction and 'sentence was approved
by the Secretary of the Navy, on the 26th of September, 1854.
The prisoner was then brought from New York to Washington, in custody; and the President, reciting the trial and sentence, made the fo1owing" order upon the defendant, the marshal, in relation to carrying the. judgment of the court into
execution. "The prisoners above named (the plaintiff, Dynes,
being one among others) having been brought to the city, by
direction of the Secretary of the Navy, in the United States
steamer Engineer, you are hereby directed to receive( them
from the commanding officer of said vessel, and commit them

SUPREME COURT.
Dyn e v. Hfoo're.

to the penitentiary in the District of Columbia, in accordance
with their respective sentences." These facts formed a portion
of the defendant's pleas, to which the plaintiff demurred, pointing out the following causes of demurrer:
1. Because the said court martial had no jurisdiction or authority whatever to pass such sentence as that pleaded and set
forth in said plea.
2. Because the sentence is illegal and void.
A.Because the President of the United States had no jurisdiction or authority whatever to write such a letter to the defendant as that pleaded and set forth in said plea, nor in any
manner whatever to direct the defendant to commit the plaintiff to the penitentiary in the District of Columbia, in accordance with said sentence.
4. Because the said letter, and the said directions therein
contained,-are unconstitutional, illegal, and void.
5. Because the said plea is altogether vicious and insufficient
in law, and wants form.
There was a joinder in demurrer and judgment for the defendant.
This presents the question, whether the defendant, as marshal, was authorized to execute the direction to receive the
plaintiff; then in custody of the captain of the United States
steamer Engineer, to deliver him to the keeper of the penitentiary of the District of Columbia.
The demurrer admits that the court martial was lawfully
organized; that the cride charged was one forbidden by law;
that the court had jurisdiction of the charge as it was made;
that a trial took place before the court upon the charge, and
the defendant's plea of not guilty; and that upon the evidence
in the case the court found Dynes guilty of an attempt to des.ert, and sentenced him to be punished, as has been already
stated; that the sentence of the court was approved by the
Secretary, and that by his direction Dynes was brought to
Washington; and that the defendant was marshal for the District of Columbia, and that in receiving Dynes, and committing
him to the keeper of the penitentiary, he obeyed the orders of
the President of the United States in execeution of the sentence.
Among the powers conferred upon Congress by the 8th section
of the first article of the Constitution, are the following: "to
provide and maintain a navy;" "to make rules for the government of the land and naval f6rces." And the 8th amendment,
which requires a presentment of a grand jury in cases of capital
or otherwise infamous crime, expressly excepts from its operation "cases arising in the land or naval forces." And by the 2d
section of the 2d article of the Constitution it is declared that

DECEM1BER TERAM, 1857.

79

.Dynav. Hoover.

"The President shall be commander-in-chief of the army and
navy of the United States, and of the militia of the several
States when called into the actual service of the United States."
These provisions show that Congress has the power to provide for the trial and punishment of military and naval offences
in the manner then and now practiced by civilized nations;
and that the power to do so is given without any connection
between it and the 3d article of the Constitution defining the
judicial power of the United States; indeed, that the two
powers are entirely independent of each other.
In pursuance of the power just recited from the 8th secti6n
of the first article of the Constitution, Congress passed the act
of the 23d April, 1800, (2 Stat. at Large, 45,) providing rules
for the government of the navy. The 17th article of that act
is: "And if anyperson in the navy shall desert or entice others
to desert, he shall suffer death, or such other punishment as a
coult martial shall adjudge." The 32d article is: "All crimes
committed by persons belonrging to the navy, which are not
specified in the foregoing articles, shall be punished according
to the laws and customs in such cases at sea." The 35th article provides for the appointment of courts martial to try all
offences which may arise in the naval service.. The 38th article provides that charges shall be made in writing, which was
done in this case. The court was lawfully constituted, the
charge made in writing, and Dynes appeared and pleaded to
the charge, Now, the demurrer admits, if Dynes had been
found guilty of desertion, that no complaint would have been
made against the conviction for want of jurisdiction in the
court. But as it appears that the court, instead of finding
Dynes guilty of the high offence of desertion, which authorizes the punishment of death, convicted him of attempting to
desert, and sentenced him to imprisonment for six months at
hard labor in the penitentiary of the District of Columbia, it is
argued that the court had no jurisdiction o- authority to pass
such a sentence; in other words, in the languago of the counsel of the plaintiff in error, that "the finding was coram non
judice, it being for an offence of which the plaintiff was never
charged, and of which the court had no cognizance. That the
subject-matter of the sentence, the punishment inflicted, was
not within their juiisdiction, and is a punishment which they
had no sort of permission or authority of law to inilict."
But the finding of the court against the prisoner was what
is known-in the administration of crimiialdaw as a partialverdkt, in which the accused is acquitted of a part of the accusation against him, and found guilty of the residue. As when
there is an acquittal on one count, and a verdict of guilty on

80

SUPREME COURT.
.Dyne& v. Hoover.

another. Or when the charge is ot a higher degree, including
one of a lesser, there may be a finding by a partialverdict of the
latter. As upon a charge of burglary, there may be a conviction for a larceny, and an; acquittal of the nocturnal entry. So,
upon an indictment for murder, there may be a verdict of manslaughter, and robbery may be reduced to simple larceny, and
a battery into an assault.
The iejcction is ingeniously worded, was very ably argued,
and, we acy add, with a clear view and knowledge of what
the law is upon such a subject, and how the plaintiff's case
must be brought under it, to make the defendant responsible
on this fiction for false imprisonment. But it substitutes an
imputed error in the finding of the court for the original subject-matter of its jurisdiction, seeking to make the marshal
answerable for his mere ministerial execution of a sentence,
which the court passed, the Secretary of the Navy approved,
and which the President of the United States, as constitutional
commander-in-chief of the army and navy of the United States,
directed the marshal to execute, by receiving the prisoner and
convict, Dynes, from the naval officer then having him in custody, to transfer him to the penitentiary, in accordance with the
sentence which the court had passed upon him. And this upon
the principle, that where a court has no jurisdiction over the
subject-matter, it tries and assumes it; or where an inferior
court has jurisdiction over the subject-matter, but is bound to
adopt certlun rules in its proceedings,from which it deviates, whereby
the procecdings are rendered coram non judice, that trespass for
false imprisonment is the proper remedy, where the liberty of
the citizen has been restrained by process of the court, or by
the execution of its judgment. Such is the law in either case,
in respect to the court, which acts without having jurisdiction
over the subject-matter; or which, having jurisdiction, disregards the' rules of proceeding enjoined by the law for its exercise, so as to render the case coram non judice. (Cole's case,
John. W., 171; Dawson v. Gill, 1 East., 64; Smith v. Beucher,
Hardin, 71; Martin v. Marshall, Hob., 68; Weaver v. Clifford,
2 Bul., 64; 2 Wils., 385.) In both cases, the law is, that an
officer executing the process of a court which has acted without jurisdiction over the subject-matter becomes a trespasser,
it being better for the peace of society, and its interests of
every kind, that the responsibility of determining whether the
court has or has not jurisdiction should be upon the officer,
than that a void writ should be executed. This court, so far
back as the year 1806, said, in the case of Wise and Withers,
3 Cr., 331, p. 337 of that case, "It follows, from this opinion,
that a court martial has no jurisdiction over a justice of the

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.
-Dynes v. Hoov'er.

peace as a militiaman; he could never be legally enrolled;
and it is a principle,that a decision of such a tribunal, in a case
clearly without its jurisdiction, cannot protect the officer who
executes it. The court and the officer are all trespassers." (2
Brown, 124; 10 Cr., 69; Mark's Rep., 118; 8 Term R., 424;
4 Mass.. R., 234.)
I add two cases from the 2d of Horace Gray's reports of the
Supreme Judicial Federal Court of Massachusetts, furnished
me by Mr. Justice Campbell, of Pifer v. Person, 120; Clark v.
Whipple, in May and Rent, 410.
But the case in hand is not one of a court without jurisdiction over the subject-mattef, or that of one which has neglected
the forms and rules of precedure enjoined for the exercise of
jurisdiction. It was regularly convened; its forms of pro.
cedure were strictly observed as they are directed to be by the
statute; and if its sentence be a deviation from it, which we do
not admit, it is not abiolutely void. Whatever the sentence is,
or may have been, as it was not a trial by court martial taking
place out of the United States, it could not have been carried
into execution but by the confirmation of the President, haa
it extended to loss of life, or in cases not extending to loss of
life, as this did not, but by the confirmation of the Secretary
of the Navy, who ordered the court. And if a sentencebe so
confirmed, it becomes final, and must be executed, unless the
President pardons the offender. It is in the nature of an appeal to the officer ordering the court, who is made by the law
the arbiter of the legality and propriety of the court's sentence.
When confirmed, it is altogether beyond the jurisdictioif or
inquiry, of any civil tribun'al whatever, unless it shall be in a
case in which the court had not jurisdiction over the subjectmnatter or charge, or one in which, having jurisdiction over the
subject-matter, it has failed to observe the'rules prescribed by
the statute for-Its, exercise. In such cases, as has just been
said, all of the parties to such illegal trial are trespassers upon a
'party aggrieved by it, and he may recover damages -rom them
on a proper suit in a civil court, by the ;verdict of a jury.
Persons, then, belonging to the army and the navy are not
subject to illegal or irresponsible courts martial, when the law
for convaiing them and directing their proceedings of organization and for trial have been disregarded. In such cases,
everything which may be done is void-not voidable, but
void; and civil courts have never filed, upon a proper suit, to
give a party redress, who has been injured by a void process
or void judgment. In England, it has been done by the civil
courts, ever since the passage of the 1 Mutiny act of William
and Mary, ch. 5,.3d April, 1689. And it must have been with
6
VOL. xX.

82

SUPREME COURT.
.tyne8 v. Hoover.

a direct reference to what the law was in England, that this
court said, in Wise v. Withers, 3 Cr., 337, that in such a case
"the court and the officers are all trespassers." When we
speak of proceedings in a cause, or for the organization of the
court and for trials; we do not mean mere irregularity in practice on the trial, or any mistaken rulings in respect to evidence or law, but of a disregard of the essentials required by
the statute under which the court has been convened to try
and to punish an offender for an imputed violation of the law.
Courts martial derive their jurisdiction and are regulated
with us by an act of Congress, in which the crimes which may
be committed, the manner of charging the accused, and of
trial, and .the punishments which may be inflicted, are expressed in terms; or they may get jurisdiction by a fair deduction from the definition of the crime that it comprehends, and
that the Legislature meant to subject to punishment one of a
minor degree of a kindred character, which has already been
recognised to be such by the practice of 'courts martial in the
army and navy services of nations, and by those functionaries
in different nations to whom has been confided a revising
power over the sentences of courts martial. And when
offences and crimes are not given in terms or by definition,
the want of it may be supplied by a comprehensive enactment, such as the 32d article of the rules for the government
of the navy, which means that courts martial have jurisdiction of such crimes as are not specified, but which have
been recognised to be crimes and offences by the usages in the
navy of all nations, and that they shall be punished according
to the laws and customs of the sea. Notwithstanding the
apparent indeterminateness of such a provision, it is not liable
to abuse; for what those- crimes are, and how they are to be
punished, is well known by practical men in the navy and
army, and by those who have studied the law of courts martial, and the offences of which the different courts martial have
cognizance. With the sentences of courts martial which have
been convened regularly, and have proceeded legally, and by
which punishments are directed, not forbidden by law, or
which are according to the laws and customs of the sea, civil
courts have nothing to do, nor are they in any way alterable
by them. If it were otherwise, the civil courts would virtually
administer the rules and articles of war, irrespective of those
to whom that duty and obligation has been confided by the
laws of the United States, from whose decisions no appeal or
jurisdiction of any kind has been given to the civil magistrate
or civil coulit. But we repeat, if a court martial has nojurisdiction over the subject-matter of the charge it has been conyened

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

83

Dynes v. Hoover.

to try, or shall inflict a punishmentforbidden by the law, though
its sentence shall be approved by the officers having a revisory
power of it, civil courts may, on an action by a party aggrieved
by it, inquire into the want of the court's jurisdiction, and give
him redress. (Hlarman v. Tappenden, 1 East., 555; as to ministerial officers, Marshall's case, 10 Cr., 76; Morrison v. Sloper,
Wells, 30; Parton v. Williams, B. and A., 330; and as tojustices of the peace, by Ld. Tenterden, in Basten v. Carew, 3 B.
and C., 653; Mules v. Calcott, 6 Bins, 85.)
Such is the law of England. By the mutiny acts, courts
martial have been created, with authority to try those who are
a part of the army or navy for breaches of military or naval
duty. It has been repeatedly determined that the sentences
of those courts are conclusive in any action brought in the
courts of common law. But the courts of common law will
examine whether courts martial have exceeded the jurisdiction
given them, though it is said, "not, however, after the sentence has been ratified and carried into execution." (Grant v.
Gould, 2 H. Black, 69; Ship Bounty, 1 East., 813; Shalford's
case, 1 East., 313; Mann v. Owen, 9 B. and 0., 595; in the
matter of Poe, 5 B. and A., 681, on a motion for a prohibition.)
A judge, or any person acting by authority as such, where he
has over the subject-matter, and over the person, a general
jurisdiction which he nas not *exceeded, will not be liable to
have his judgment examined in an action brought against himself; but if jurisdiction be wanting over the subject-matter,
and over the person, such judgment would be examinable.
(Hammond v. Howel, 1 Mod., 184; Garnett v. Ferrand, 6 B.
and C., 611; Moslyn v. Fabugas, Cow., 172; Bonham's case,
8 Co., 114; Greenwell v. Burwell, 1 LeRoy, 454; by Holt, 0.
J., 1 Le Roy, 470; Lumley v. Lance, 2 Le Roy, 767; Basten v;
Carew, 3 B. and C., 649. The preceding cited cases relate to
judges of record. As to judges not of record, ecclesiastical
judges, Acherly v. Parkerson, 3 M. and S., 411. Commissioners of court of bequests, Aldridge v. Haines, 2 B. and Ad.,
395. As to returning officer of election, Ashby v. White, 2
Ld. Raym., 941; Cullen v. Morris, 2 Start, 577.)
In this case, all of us think that the court which tried Dynes
.had jurisdiction over the subject-matter of the charge against
him; that the sentence of the court against him was not forbidden by law; and that, having been approved by the Secretary of the Navy as a fair deductio i from the 17th article of
th'e act of April 23d, 1800, and that Dynes having been brought
to Washington as a prisoner by the direction of the Secretary,
that the President of the United States, as constitutional commander-in-chief of the army and navy, and in virtue of his

SUPREME COURT.
Withers v. Buckley et al.

constitutional obligation, that "He shall take care that the
laws be faithfully executed," violated no law in directing the
marshal to receive the prisoner Dynes from the officer commanding the United States steamer Engineer, for the purpose
of transferring him to the penitentiary of the District of Colurnbia; and, consequently, that the marshal is not answerable
in this action of trespass and false imprisonment.
We affirm the judgment of the Circuit Court.
Mr. Justice McLean dissented.

DAVID

D.

WITHERS, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. RANSOM BUCKLEY,

DANIEL WILSON, NEWTON HUFF, HUGH

R. DAVIS,

DOUdLAS

H.

COOPER, CHARLES VAUGHAN, AND JAMES METCALF.
This court has no jurisdiction, under the 25th section of the judiciary act of 17893
of the question whether or not a law of a State is in opposition to the Constitution of that State.
Therefore, where it is alleged that the Constitution of a State declares that private
* property shall not be taken for public uses, and that the highest court of the
State has sustained the validity of a law which violates this constitutional provision, this court has no power to review that decision.
The fifth article of the amendments of the Constitution of the United States was
intended to prevent the Government of the United States ffom taking private
property for public uses without just compensation, and was not intended as a
restraint upon the State Governments.
A law of the State of Mississippi, for improving the navigation of a river which
empties itself into the Mississippi, is not in conflict with the act of Congress
providing for the admission of that State into the Union, which act guaranties
the free navigation of the Mississippi river.
Being admitted upon a footing of equality with the other States, the State of
Mississippi had the rightful power to change the channels or courses of rivers
within the interior of the State, for purposes of internal improvement.
And, moreover, the law in question does not propose to affect the navigation of
the Mississippi river, but only a small stream running into it.

THIS case was brought up from the High Court of Errors
and Appeals of the State of Mississippi, by a writ-of error
issued under the 25th section of the judiciary act.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr.Benjamin for the plaintiff in error, and
Mr. Carlisle for the defendants. There was also a brief filed
by Mr. Yerger for the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. Badgerand
Mr. Carlisle for the defendants.

The points made on behalf of the plaintiff in error are taken
from the brief of Mr. Yerger:
I. There is no doubt of the jurisdiction of the court of equity
upon the ease stated by the bill. (4 Cush. Rep., 86; 3 Wend.
Rep., 636; 2 John. Ch.Rep., 165; 6 Paige's Rep., 262.) -

