THE DECISIONS
OF THE

SUIREM1E .COIURT OIF- THE UNITE

STATES,-

AT

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

BENJAMIN

F.

MORGAN, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR,

V. ALFRED

G.

CURTENIUS AND JOHN L. GRISWOLD.
Wfere the Circuit Court adopted the construction of a State statute which wag
placed upon it by the Supreme Court of the State, the decision was correct;
and a different construction of the statute subsequently placed upon it by the
Supreme Court of the State will not authorize this court to reverse the judgmeut of the Circuit Court as having been erroneously given.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Cir-

cuit Court of the Uhiited States for the district of Illinois.
It was the same case which was before the court at the preceding term, as noticed in 19 Howard, 8.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

It was argued by Mr. Washburne for the plaintiff in error,
and Mr. Ballance for the defendant, upon printed arguments.
Mr. Washburne referred to the cases*of Frisby v. Ballance
2' Gilman, 141, and Frink v. Davit, 14 Illihois' Reports, 304;
and contended that the last decision had declared the law of
the State, by which the deed of Bogardus to Underhill did not,
by the subsequently-acquired title of Bogardus, pass the title
in fee. The decision of the Circuit Court should be reversed,
as being contradictory to the established law of the State.
Mr. Ballanceadmitted that the United States courts could follow the State courts in the construction of their own statutes,
and, when a new construction was adopted, could change and
decide cases as they might arise, according to the new construction. 3ut he denied that the Supreme Court could gather
up all the old. cases which had been settled under the law as it
then stood, and make them conform to'the-new law.
VOL. XX.

1

2

SUPREME COURT.
Morgan v. Curtenius et al.

Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error, who was also plaintiff below, brought
his ejectment for certain lots in the town of Peoria. On the
trial, he gave in evidence a patent from the United States to
John L. Bogardus, dated 5th of January, 1838; the will of
Bogardus, proved 7th of July, 1838, in which he authorizes
his executrix to sell his lands; a deed from the executrix,
dated September 25th, 1845, to Seth L. Cole; also, a deed from
Cole to Frink, and from Frink to plaintiff. The defendants
claimed under Isaac Underhill, to whom Bogardus had conveyed
by deed, dated 5th August, 1834, purporting, for the consideration of $1,050, "to grant, sell, and convey," to Underhill, all
Bogardus's "right and interest" to the land in dispute; "to
have and to hold the same, unto the said Underhill, his heirs
and assigns, forever."
The defendants, moreover, proved that Underhill paid the
purchase-money for the land, and took out the patent in
the name of Bogardus, in whose name the entry had been
made.
The plaintiff's counsel then moved the court to exclude from
the jury all the evidence given by the defendants. This motion was overruled, and the court instructed the jury that the
plaintiff had no title to the premises claimed in the declaration. To this instruction plaintiff's counsel excepted, and
now alleges it as error.
It was contended that the deed from Bogardus to Underhill
was but an ordinary quit-claim deed, conveying only such interest as the releasor had in the premises at the time of its
execution; and being without any direct covenants of warranty, or that implied in the terms "grant, bargain, and sell,"
Bogardus was not estopped from evicting Underhill, under
his legal title afterwards vested in him by the patent. The
defendants contended, that however this might be at common
law, the title acquired by Bogardus inured to the benefit of
his grantee by virtue of the 7th section of the statute of fllinois, passed in 1833, concerning conveyances of real property,
which is as follows: "If any person shall sell or convey to
another, by deed or conveyance purporting to convey an estate in fee simple absolute in any tract of] and or real estate,
lying and being in this State, not then being possessed of the
legal title or interest therein at the time of the sale of conveyance, but after such sale and conveyance the vendor shall
become possessed of and confirmed in the legal estate to the
land or real estate so sold and conveyed, it shall be taken and
held in trust, and for the use of the grantee or vendee, and the
conveyance aforesaid shall be held and taken, and shall be

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

3

IFynn v. Morris et al.

as valid as if the grantor or vendor had the legal estate or interest at the time of sale or conveyance."
Now, this case was tried in the court below, on the 8th of
June, 1849, and this section of the act of 1833 had been construed by the Supreme Court of Illinois, as to its application
to the conveyance in question, in the. case of Frisby v. Ballance; decided in that court in: 1845, and reported in 2d Gilman, 141. It was held in that case that the fee in the premises inured under the statute to Underhill and his assigns.
This construction of the statute was therefore a settled rule of
roperty at the time of the decision of this case in the court
elow, which that court was bound to follow; and having so
decided, there was certainly no error in the decision at the
time it was made.
But it is argued, that though the decision of the Circuit
Court was in accordance with the established construction of
the statutes of Illinois, and the rules of property as then declared by her highest tribunal, yet that it has become erroneous, because of a change of the law since that tine, by a decision of the Supreme Court of the State in 1853, in the case
of Frink v. Durst, (14 Illinois, 305,) by which the case of
Frisby v. Ballance was overruled and reversed. It is true
that the same conveyance and the same statute were in question in the last case, and have received a contrary construction to that which had governed such conveyances hs a rule
of property for more than eight years.
If the judgment of the Circuit Court in this case had been
given since the last decision of the Supreme Court of Illinois,
this court might have been compelled to decide whether they
considered themselves bound to follow the last decision of that
court, or at liberty to choose between them. But, however
the latter decision may have a retroactive effect upon the titles
held under the deed in question, it cannot have that effect
upon the decisions of the Cikcuit Court, and make that erroneous which was not so when the judgment of that court
was given. It is therefore affirmed,- with costs.

ROBERT

HI. WYN, EXECUTOR AND DEvrsIE oF WLLiAm WYNN,
B. MORRIS ET AL.

DECEASED, PLAINTIFF Iw ERROR, V. CHARLES

In the present case, the complainant and appellant did not derive his title to the
land in dispute from any statute of the United States; and therefore this court has
no jurisdiction over the matter by virtue of the 25th section of the judiciary act.

THIS case was brought up from the Supreme Court of the

