DECEMBER TERM, 1857.
Covington .Drawbri'dge Com.any v. Shepherd et al.

prepared to comply with the terms of the contract, by meeting
the wishes of MeGavock, the defendant, in regard to the notes
giVen by him when he purchased the plantation from Thibodaux, even if they were required to pay cash for the amount
for which the commercial firm were endorsers, by having discounted a portion of Dr. Bard's obligations." This is an
opin.ion of what might have been effected towards the consummation of the contract of sale, rather than what had been
done preparatory, and with a view to the fulfilment, which
would have been much more pertinent to the issue in the case.
As the terms of sale were explicit, the proposal to fulfil should
have been equally so. Nothing should have been left to conjecture or speculation. There should have been as much certainty on the one side of the contract as upon the other. Certainty in the offer to fulfil is as important to the vendor as in
the terms of the sale to the vendee, and equally necessary before the vendor can be put in fault. The broker must conplete the sale; that is, he must find a purchaser in a situation
and ready and willing to complete the purchase ow the terms
agreed on, before he is entitled to his commissions. Then he
will be entitled to them, though the vendor refuse to go on
and perfect tLe sale.
Judgment of the court below reversed.

THE COVINGTON DRAWBRIDGE COMPANY, PLAINTIFFS IN

ERROR,

v. ALEXANDER 0. SHEPHERD, ELI3AH F. GILLAN, JAMES DAVIDSON,

SAMUEL

MCCLURE,

SAMUEL PETERS, ,AND

GEORGE

WILLARD.
An averment, in pleading, that the Covington Drawbridge Company were citizens
of Indiana was sufficient to give jurisdiction to the Circuit Court of the United

States, because the company was incorporated by a public statute of the State
which the court was bound judicially to notice.

The former decisions of this court upon this subject examined.

THIs case was brought up, by writ-of error; from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of Indiana.
Shepherd and the other defendants in error, styling themselves citizens of Ohio, brought an action of trespass on the
case against the Covington Drawbridge Company, citizens of
the State of Indiana, for injuries sustained by a steamboat belonging to the plaintiffs, in consequence of negligence in at.
tending to the draw. The defendants pleaded not guilty, and
the case was tried by a jury, who found a verdict for the plaintiffs, awarding $6,084.93. There were no prayers to. the

228

SUPREME COURT.
Covington Drawbridge Company v. Shepherd et al.

court or bills of exceptions. But the defendants sued out a
writ of error, and brought the case up to this court, upon the
ground that "the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction of the
cause. The averment of the citizenship of the defendants below, as stated in the declaration, is not sufficient to give jurisdiction to the court."
It was argued by 31r. 0. H. Smith for the plaintiffs in error,
and submitted on printed argument by Mr. B. W. Thompson
for defendants.
Mr. Smith contended that the declaration did not give jurisdiction to the court. The only part of the declaration that
refers to the citizenship of the parties is in these words:
"Alexander 0. Shepherd, James Davidson, Elijah F. Gillan,
Samuel McClure, Samuel Peters, and George Willard, citizens
of the State of Ohio, complain of the Covington Drawbridge
Company, citizens of the State of Indiana, defendants in this
suit, in a plea of trespass on the case."
I refer to the following authorities, showing that the question is res adjudicata, in this court: Bingham v. Cabot, 1 Curtis, 267; Emory v. Greenough, ib., 265; Turner v. Enville,
ib., 311; Abercombie v. Dupins, ib., 422; Wood v. Wagnon,
ib., 427; Marshall v. Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company, 16
How., 814; Lafayette Insurance Company v. Maynard French
et al., November term, 1855, Supreme Court of the United
States; this latter ease decides the very question. Mr. Justice Curtis, in the opinion of the court, says: "In the declaration, the plaintiffs are averred to be citizens of Ohio, and they
complain of the Lafayette Insurance Company, a citizen of the
State of Indiana." "This averment is not sufficient to show jurisdiction. It does not appear from it that the Lafayette Insurance Company is .a corporation, or, if it be such, by the law of
what State it was created. The averment that the Company
is a citizen of the State of Indiana can have no sensible meaning attached to it. This court does not hold that either a voluntary
associationof persons, or an association into a body politic, created
by law, is a citizen qf a State within the meaning of the Constitution.
And therefore, if the defective averment in the declaration had not
been otherwise supplied, the suit must have been dismissed. But the
plaintiff's replication alleges that the defendants are a corporation,
created under the laws of the State of Indiana,-havingits principal
place of business in that State. These allegations are confessed
by the demurrer, and they bring the case within the decision of this
court in Marshall v. The Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company,
16 Hfow., 314, and thepreviousdecisions." The italics are my own.

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.
Covington Drawbridge Comtyany v. Shepherd et aL.

In this case, there was no replication to supply the defect in
the declaration, and therefore I maintain that the judgment
must be reversed, and the suit dismissed.
The first branch of Mr. Thompson's argument was to show
that it was not necessary to aver that the defendants below
were a corporation. The second branch was as follows:
It being then settled that the defendants in this case are to
be taken to bo a corporation, it remains to be considered
whether it appears from the declaration that the corporators
are citizens of the State of Indiana, or that the corporation is
engaged in its legal and proper vocation in said State. We
maintain that both propositions are true. No one will-deny
that the averment of the citizenship of the plaintiffs is well
stated, and the allegation is the same With reference to the
defendants. In the case of the Bank of the United States v.
Deveraux et al., 5 Cranch, 61, the averment of the citizenship
of the corporation plaintifi was, "and your petitioners aver
that they are citizens of the State of Pennsylvania;" -and Chief
Justice Marshall, in delivering the opinion of the court upon.
the authority of a case in 12th Mod., said, "11the court was authorized to look to the character of the individuals who composed the corporation on a question ofjurisdiction."
"Being authorized to sue in their co;porate name, they could make
the averment, and it must apply to the plaint iffs as individuals, because
it could not be true as applied to the corporation."
Surely, the averment in that case was no stronger than this.
The averment in the declaration in this case is equivalent to a
statement that the Covington Drawbridge Company was a
corporation, (for the name implies it,) and that all the members of that corporation are citizens of the State of Indiana;
this last averment is the essential element of jurisdiction.
This court held in the case of Louisville Railroad Company v.
Letson, 2 How., that jurisdiction might be maintained against
a corporation defendant in a State where it was incorporated
and had its principal office of business, though all of the corporators did not reside in the State of the corporation; and
the decision proceeds on the ground, that where the corpora
tion is created and exercises its powers, that is its place of re-sdence, and that, on the assumption that the individual corpora-"
tors are said to be inhabitants there, within the purpview of the
statute.
The cases in this court, since the case of the Commerial:
Bank of Vicksburg v. Slocum, 14 Peters, in which the question of jurisdiction has been decided, have proceeded upon
the ground that jurisdiction might attach, though all the cor-

230

SUPREME COURT.
Covington Drawbeide Company r. Shepherd e al.

porators, defendants, did not reside in the State where the suit
was brought, but certainly the court has not said that averments which were held sufficient in the cases of Strawbridge,
Deveraux, & Slocum, when the utmost strictness was required,
would be insufficient now. The modern cases proceed upon
the assumption that the residence of tb e corporators is presumed
to be where the company is incorporated and does business,
and that the jurisdiction is founded, in fact, upon the citizenship of those corporators, and not upon the citizenship of the
corporation itself: It is the citizenship of some living, tangible being, that gives the court jurisdiction. Could a negro or
set of negroes, though incorporated, (which they undeniably
may be,) sue in the Federal courts? And yet, if it is the corporation that is the person, the citizen, they could. It is evident
that the jurisdiction must rest upon the citizenship of the corporators, and be made expressly to apply by positive averment,
or to be implied from the place of transacting business and
the granting the charter, in which last case the corporators are
estopped "from averring a different domicil." (See Justice
Grier's opinion in Marshall v. B. and 0. R. iR., 16 How.)
But these corporation defendants are well described in the
declaration as inhabitants of the State of Indiana, and exercising the functions of the corporation within the State. It is
averred that they built a bridge with a draw across the Wabash
river, in that State, that they had charge of said draw, that it
was their duty to have raised it upon the approach of boats for
their safe passage; that though notice was given, "yet the defendants unjustly and wrongfully kept said draw down, and did
not raise the same to permit the passage of plaintiff's boat,
and compelled the said boat to run backward up the river from
said bridge and draw, and await the action of said defendants in
raising said draw." The declaration had 'before alleged the
construction of the bridge by the defendants. Thene allegations sufficiently show that the corporation was exercising its
corporate powers in Indiana, and the power delegated to the
corporation emanated from the State of Indiana; for no other
State or power could authorize the erection of a bridge over a
public highway situated in that State. By the rules of pleading applied to the declaration in this case, the Covington Drawbridge Company is to be regarded as a corporation, which had
built and maintained a drawbridge upon the Wabash river, at
Covington, Indiana, as their name would indicate they should,
and that all the corporators or members of that company were
and are citizens of Indiana.
If the court shall renounce the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court in this case, then every decision of this court upon the

•DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

231

Covington Drawbridge Company v. Slheerd ef al.

question of jurisdiction anterior to the case of Letson v. Louisville R. R. Co., 2 How., 497, will be completely overthrown,
and not a vestige remain. The corporation will, in effect, be
held to be the citizen, though Mr. Justice Curtis says, in the
case of French, that this court does not hold a corporation to
be a citizen of a State, within the meaning of the Constitution.
It was understood, by the decision in Letson's case, to be the relaxing of a rigid rule theretofore existing, and allowing a larger
class of cases to be brought within the jurisdiction of the court,
founded upon the presumption that the corporators must of
necessity be and reside at the place of business and property
of the company.
It certainly never was intended to declare that the court had
no jurisdiction where all the corporators were citizens of the
State in which they were sued, and carried on their corporate
business.

In the case of the Bank of Augusta v. Earle, 13 Pet., 512,it
is said that a corporation can have no legal existence out of
the bounds of the sovereignty by which it is created. It must
divell'in the place of- its creation.
This corporation, the Covington Drawbridge Company, dwelt
at the bridge upon the Wabash river, at Covington, which they
built and maintained, and upon which the plaintiff's boat was
ruined. The corporation, dwelling at that bridge, in the State
of Indiana, must necessarily have been created by the Legislature of the State of Indiana.
Again, Mr. Justice Grier, in delivering the opinion of the
court in the case of Marshall v. The B. and 0. R. R. Co., 16
How., 328, 329, reiterates the law for which we contend, "that
in deciding the question of jurisdiction, the court will look behind the
corporatecolletive name given to the party, to find the persons who
are the stockholders-the real parties to the controversy;" and the
question being whether an allegation that the "defendants are
a body corporate by the act of te General Assembly of Maryland,"
was sufficient to make it appear that the "real defendants,"
the stockholders, were citizens of that State, held that it was.
If that indirect averment by intendment and estoppel is held
to be a sufficient allegation of the citizenship of "the real defendants," how much better is the more full and comprehensive allegation used in the case in hand, the" Covington Drawbridge Company, CITIZENS of the State of Indiana, defendants?"

Mr. .hief Justice TA-NEY -delivered the opinion of the
court.
The writ of error in this case is brought upon a judmen t
recovered by Shepherd and others, against the Covington Draw-

232

SUPREME COURT.
Covington Drawbridge Company v. Shepherd et al.

bridge Company, in the Circuit Court of the United States for
the district of Indiana.
The only error assigned here is, that upon the declaration
and pleadings in the case, the Circuit Court had nojurisdicticn.
This objection is founded upon the description of the parties
in the declaration, which is in the following words:
"Alexander 0. Shepherd, Elijah F. Gillan, James Davidson,
Samuel McClure, Samuel Peters, and George Willard, citizens
of the State of Ohio, plaintiffs in this suit, complain of the
Covington Drawbridge Company, citizens of the State of Indiana, defendants in this suit, in a plea of trespass on the case."
The plaintiff in error, who was defendant in the court below,
contends that it does not appear by this averment that the
Drawbridge Company was a corporation chartered by Indiana,
and had its principal place of business in that State; and that,
unless this appears in the pleadings, the averment that they
were citizens of that State was not sufficient to give jurisdiction to the Circuit Court.
It is very true, that where individuals voluntarily associate
together, aud adopt a name or description intended to embrace
allof its members, and under which its contracts and engagements are made, and its business carried on, such a company
can neither sue nor be sued by the name they have adopted,
and under which they act, in any court of common law, whether
it be the court of a State or of the United States. They must
sue and be sued in their individual names as partners in the
company.
But the answer to the objection taken by the plaintiff in
error is, that the twenty-seventh section of the fourth article
of the Constitution of Indiana provides that "every statute
shall be a public law, unless otherwise declared in the statute
itself." The statute of the Legislature of Indiana, incorporating the Covington Drawbridge Company, is therefore a public law, of which the Circuit Court and this court are bound
to take judicial notice, without its being pleaded or offered in
evidence. For wherever a law of a State is held to be a public
one, to be judicially taken notice of by the State courts, it
must be regarded in like manner by a court of the United
States, when it is required to administer the laws of the State.
This being the case in this instance, the averment that the
Covington Drawbridge Company are citizens of the State of
Indiana is sufficient, according to the decision of this court
in the case of the Louisville, Cincinnati, and Charleston Railroad Company v. Letson, 2 How., 497, which has ever since
been adhered to, and must now be regarded as the settled law
of the court.

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.
Covington Drawbridge Company v. Shepherd et al.

The question as to the jurisdiction of the courts of the United
States in caseA where a corporation is a party, was argued and
considered in this court, for the first time, in the cases of the
Hope Insurance Company v. Boardman, and of the Bank of
the United States v. Deveaux, 5 Cr., 57 and 61. These two
cases-were argued at the same term, and were, as appears by
the report, decided at the same time. And in the last-mentioned case, the court held that in a suit by or against a corporation, in its corporate name, this court might look beyond
the mere legal being which the cuarter created, and regard it
as a suit by or against the individual persons who composed
the corporation; and an avcnW-.t that they were citizens of a
particular State (if such was the fct) would be sufficient to
give jurisdiction to a court of the iii
'ted States, although the
suit was in the corporate name, and the individual corporators
not named in the suit or the averment.
But in the case of the Louisville, Cincinnati, and Charlest n
Railroad Company v. Letson, the court overruled so much of
this opinion as authorized a corporation to plead in abatement,
that one or more of the corporators, plaintiffs or defendants,
were citizens of a different State from the one described, and
held that the members of the corporate body must be presumed to be citizens of the State in which the corporation was
domiciled, and that both parties were estopped from denying
it. And that, inasmuch as the corporators were not Parties to
the suit in their individual characters, but merely as members
and component parts of the body or legal entity which the
charter created, the members who composed it ought to be
presumed, so far as its contracts and liabilities are concetned,
to reside where the domicil of the body was fixed by law, and
where alone they could act as one person; and to the same
extent, and for the same purposes, be also regarded as citizens
of the State from which this legal being derived its existence,
and its faculties and powers. And in the case of the Bank
of Augusta v. Earle, 13 Pet., 519, the court said that a corporation can have no legal existence outside of the dominion of
the State by which it is cruated. Consequently, the Covington Drawbridge Company being chartered by the State of Indiana, it necessarily has its home and place of business in that
State; and the only averment in the declaration necessary to
show a case for jurisdiction, was that of the citizenship of the
parties who composed the company.
In the case of the Lafayette Insurance Company v. French,
the declaration stated that -the corporation itself was a citizen
of Indiana. Now, no one, we presume, ever supposed that the
artificial being created by an act of incorporation could be a

234

SUPREME COURT.
Covington Drawbride Company v.Shepherd et at.

citizen of a State in the sense in which that word is used in the
Constitution of the United States, and thb averment was rejected
because the matter averred was simply impossible. But it
appeared from other parts of the pleadings that the corporation
was chartered by Indiana, and had its principal place of business in that State. And the court, therefore, applied the principle decided in the case of the Louisville, Cincinnati, and
Charleston Railroad Company v. Letson, and held that the
members of the corporate body must be presumed to be citizens of the same State. The citizenship of the corporators
was regarded as the necessary and legal consequence of the
facts stated in the pleadings Without any positive and direct
averment to that effect. The case of Marshall against the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company was decided upon the
same ground. But in the case before us, the citizenship of the
corporators is not left to be inferred by the court from other
facts stated in the pleadings, but is directly and positively
averred, and consequently freed from all objection on that
head. Indeed, it is the same form of pleading in this respect
that was used in the case of the Bank of the United States v.
Deveaux, and which this court ruled to be good.
If the act of incorporation had not been a public law, which
the court is bound to notice, then, undoubtedly, the proper
description of the defendants would have been "The Covington Drawbridge Company, citizens of the State of Indiana, incorporated by that name, by the said State, and having their
principal place of business therein." But in the case before
us, the averment of the citizenship of the members of the corporation is all that is required, because the existence and domicil of the corporate body is judicially known to the court.
The judgment of the court below is therefore affirmed.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL concurs in the result of the opinion
of the court.
Mr. Justice DANIEL. In dissenting from the decision of
the court in this cause, it is not designed to reiterate objections
which in several previous instances have been expressed. I
will merely remark, with reference to the present decision,
and to others in this court, numerous as they are said to have
been, that they have wholly failed to bring conviction to my
mind, that a aorporationcan be a citizen, or that the term citizen
can be correctly understood in any other sense than that in
which it was understood ia common acceptation when the
Constitution was adopted, and as it is universally by writers
on government explained, without a single exception.

