SUPREME COURT.
Leitensdorfer e4 al. v. Webb.

(Thornton v. Wynn, 12 Wheat., 183; Rogers v.Stevens, 2 T.
R., 713; Patterson v. Beecher, 6 J. lB. Moore, 319; Campbell
v. Webster, 2 M. G. Sc., 253; Union Bank v. Grimshaw, 15
La., 321; 3 Mort. N. S., 318.) The efilct of such evidence in
the particular case must be determined by the jury, and their
decision cannot be reviewed by an appellate court. In the
present case, the matter of fact was submitted to the Circuit
Court, and its determination on this subject cannot form the
ground of an exception here.
Judgment affirmed.

EUGENE LEITENSDORFER AND JOAB HOUGHTON,

PLAINTIFFS IN

ERROR, v. JAMES J. WEBB.
When New Mexico was conquered by the United States, it was only the allegiance
of the people that was changed; their relation to each other, and their rights
of property, remained undisturbed.
The executive authority of the United States properly established a provisional
Government, which ordained laws and instituted a judicial system; all of which
continued in force after the termination of the war, and until modified by the
direct legislation of Congress, or by the Territorial Government established by
its authority.
A suit brought in a court established by the provisional Government was properly
transferred to a court created by the act of Congress establishing the Territory
of New Mexico, the jurisdiction of which was fixed by a Territorial statute.
The laws of the provisional Government authorized an attachment against the
property of a debtor, in cases in which a party claiming to be a creditor, upon a
petition and affidavit, charged that his debtor had fraudulently disposed of his
property, so as to hinder, delay, or defraud, his creditors. By the same law, an
issue was directed to be tried upon the petition and affidavit of the plaintiff;
upon which issue, if the finding sustained the petition and affidavit, the plaintiff was authorized to proceed to the proof of his debt; if the finding was against
the charge in the petition, the attachment was to be dismissed. These proceedings with reference to the attachment are in their nature proceedings in abatement, and are not final as to the rights of the parties, and therefore cannot be
reviewed upon writ of error in this court.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, firom the Supreme
Court of the Territory of New Mexico.
The facts of the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Cushinq and -r.Gillet for the plaintiffs
in error, and by Mir. Polk for the defendant.
The counsel upon both sides argued the case upon its merits;
but as it went off upon a question of pleading, these arguments
are omitted.
Mr. Justice DANIEL delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is brought before this court upon a writ of error
to the Supreme Court of the, Territory of New Mexico.

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

17T

Lteensdorfer.ee al. v. Webb.

Upon the acquisition, in the year 1846, by the arms of the
United States, of the Territory of New Mexico, the civil Gov-.
eminent of this Territory having been overthrown, the officer,
General Kearney, holding possession for the United States, in
virtue of the power of conquest and occupancy, and in obedience to the duty of maintaining the security of the inhabitants
in their persons and property, ordained, under the sanction and
authority of the United States, a provisional or temporary Government for the acquired country. By this substitution of a
new supremacy, although the former political relations of the
inhabitants were dissolved, their private relations, their rights
vested under the Government of their former allegiance, or
those arising from contract or usage, remained in full force
and unchanged, except so far as they were in their -nature and
character found to be in conflict with the Constitution and
laws of the United States, or with any regulations which the
conquering and occupying authority should ordain. Amongst
the consequences which would be necessarily incident to the
change of sovereignty, would be the appointment or control of
the agents by whom and the modes in which the Government
of the occupant should, be administered-this result being indispensable, in order to secure those objects for which such a
Government is usually established.
This is the principle -of the law of nations, as exTounded by
the highest authorities. In the case of The Fama, in the 5th
of Robinson's Rep., p. 106, Sir William Scott declares it to be
"the settled principle of the law of -nations, that the inhabitants
of a conquered territory change their allegiance, ancl their relation to their former sovereign is dissolved; but their relations'
to each other, and their rights of property not taken from them
by the orders of the conqueror, remain undisturbed." So, too,
it is laid down by Vattel, book 3d, cap. 13, see. 200, that "the
conqueror lays his hands on the possessions of the State, whilst
private -persons are permitted to retain theirs; they suffer but
indirectly by the war, and to them the result is, that they only
change masters." In the ease of the United States v. Perchiman, 7 Peters, pp. 86, 87, this court have said: "It may be
not unworthy of remark that it is very unusual, even in cases
of conquest, for the conqueror to do more than to displace the
sovereign, and assume dominion over the country. The modern usage of nations, which ha become law, would be violated,
and that sense of justice and right which is acknowledged and
felt by the whole-civilized worldwould be outraged, if private
property should be generally confiscated and private. rights
annulled. -The people change their allegiance; their relation
to their sovereign is dissolved; but their relations to each other,
VoL. xx.

12

SUPREME COURT.
Leitensdorfer et al. v. Webb.

and their rights of property, remaiin undisturbed." (Vide also
the case of Mitchel v. The United States, 9th ib., 711, and
Kent's Com., vol. 1, p. 177.)
Accordingly we find that there was ordained by the provisional Government a judicial system, which created a superior
or appellate court, constituted of three judges; and circuit
courts, in which the laws were to be admiiistered by the judges
of the superior or appellate court, in the circuits to which they
should be respectively assigned. By the same authority, the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts to be held in the several counties was declared to embrace, 1st, all criminal cases that shall
not be otherwise provided by law; and, 2d, exclusive original
jurisdiction in all civil cases which shall not be cognizable before the prefects and alcaldes. (Vide Laws of New Mexico,
Kearney's Code, p. 48.) Of the validity of these ordinances
of the provisional Government there is made no question with
respect to the period during which the territory was held by
the United States as occupying conqueror, and it would seem
to admit of no doubt that during the period of their valid existence and operation, these ordinances must have displaced and
superseded every previous institution of the vanquished or deposed political power which was incompatible with them. But
it has been contended, that whatever may have been the rights
of the occupying conqueror as such, these were all terminated
by the termination of the belligerent attitude of the parties,
and that with the close of the contest every institution which
had been overthrown or suspended would be revived and re-established. The fallacy of this pretension is exposed by the
fact, that the territory never was relinquished by the conqueror,
nor restored to its original condition or allegiance, but was retained by the occupant until possession was matured into absolute permanent dominion and sovereignty; and this, too, under
the settled purpose of the United States never to relinquish
the possession acquired by arms. We conclude, therefore, that
the ordinances and institutions of the provisional Government
would be revoked or modified by the United States alone,
either by direct legislation "onthe part of Congress, or by that
of the Territorial Government in the exercise of powers delegated by Congress. That no power whatever, incompatible
with the Constitution or laws of the United States, or with the
authority of the provisional Government, was retained by the
Mexican Government, or was revived under that Government,
from the period at which the possession passed to the authorities of the United States.
Among the laws ordained by the provisional Government of
New Mexico is one conferring upon creditors the right of pro-

DECEIVIBER TERM, 1857.

179

,eitenrdorfer et al. v. Webb.

ceeding by attachment in certain cases against their debtors,
and prescribing the instances in which, and the modes by which,
this remedy may be prosecuted.
This law is contained in what is called the Kearney Code, at
p. 39, and is found under the title Attachments. Upon its
provisions, the case under consideration was instituted; and
those provisions, so far as they are pertinent to the questions
before us, will now be examined.
By section 1st, it is declared that creditors, whose demands
amount to fifty dollars or more, may sue their debtors in the
Circuit Court by attachment in the following cases, to wit:
"1st. When the debtor is not a resident of this Territory.
"2d. When the debtor has concealed himself or absconded,
or-absented himself from his usual place of abode in this Territory, so that the ordinary process of law cannot be passed
upon him.
"3d. When the debtor is about to remove his property or
effects out of this Teriitory, or has fraudulently concealed or disposed of his property or.effeets, so as to hinder, delay, or defraud
his creditors."
It is under the thiid clause only of this first section of the
attachment law, that this case has been or could have been instituted; since, by a recurrence to the affidavit made by the plaintiff in Jhe attachment, it will be kound to state, that Leitensdorfer
& Co. have fraudulently disposed of their property and effects.
By the second section of this law it is declared, that a creditor,
wishing to sue his debtor by attachment, shall file in the clerk's
office of the Circuit Court a-petition or other lawful statement,
with an affidavit of his cause of action, and a bond, with a condition to the latter to prosecute his action with effect, and without delay, and to refund all sums of money that may be adjudged
to the defendant, and to paya1ll damages that may accrue to
any defendant, or garnishee, by reason of the attachment, or
any process or judgment thereon.
The third section of this same statute provides, that the affidavit made by the plaintiff shall, state that the defendant is
justly indebted to the plaintiff; after allowing all just discount8,
in a sum to be stated in the affidavit, and on what account;
and shall also state, that the -affiant has good reason to believe,
and does believe, the existence of one or more of the causes
which, according to the provision of the first section, will entitle the plaintiff to sue by attachment. (See collection of the
Laws of New Mexico, coniprising the K earney Code, p. 89.)
With the requisites of the aforegoing provisions of the statute,
it appears, by the record, that 'the plaintiff below, the defendant in error here, formally and regularly complied.

130

SDPREME COURT.
Leitensdorfer et al. v. Webb.

The sixteenth section of the statute enacts, that "in all cases
when property or effects shall be attached, the defendant may,
at the court to which the writ is returnable, put in his answer
without oath, denying the truth of any material Thct contained
in the affidavit; to which the plaintiff may reply. A trial of
the truth of the affidavit shall be had at the same term; and
on such trial, the plaintiff shall be held to prove the existence
of the facts set forth in the affidavit, as the ground of the attachment; and if the issue shall be found for him, the cause shall
proceed; but if it be found for the defendant, the cause shall
be dismissed at the costs of the plaintiff."
At the October term, 1849, of the Circuit Court of the Territory, established by the Kearney Code, the defendants in the
attachment appeared and filed a demurrer to the petition, and
at this point terminated the proceedings had in this cause in
the court last mentioned. By subsequently tendering and joining in an issue in the District Court of the Territory, in bar of
the plaintiff's right of recovery, the defendants must be considered as having waived the demurrer interposed by them in
the Circuit Court of the provisional Government, and there
appears not to have been a joinder in the demurrer, nor any
order whatever taken with respect to it.
On the 9th day of September, 1850, was approved .the act of
Congress establishing the Territorial Government for the Territory of New Mexico. (Vide Stat. at Large, vol. 9, p. 446.)
By this act, commonly distinguished as the Organic Law, the
legislative and judicial powers of the Territorial Government
are provided and defined, to have effect from the passage of
that act. The former, (the legislative power,) vide see. 7, it is
declared, shall extend to all rightful subjects of legislation not
inconsistent with the Constitution of the United States and the
act of Congress above mentioned. The latter, (the judicial
power,) vide see. 10, shall be vested in a Supreme Court, in District Courts, and in justices of the peace. That the Supreme
Court shall consist of a chief justice and two associate justices,
any two of whom shall form a quorum; that the said Territory shall be divided into three judicial districts, and a District
Court shall be held in each of said districts by one of the justices of the Supreme Court, at such time and place as shall be
prescribed by law. And it is further declared, that the jurisdiction of the several courts, as therein provided for, both appellate and original, and that of the justices of the peace, shall
be as limited by law.
On the 19th day of September, 1851, the District Court of
the United States for the first judicial district, created by the
act of Congress, being then in session, the plaintiff in the attach-

DECEMBMMR TERM, 1857.

181

Ldtenrfer et al. v. Webb.

ment moved the court for leave to file therein the, papers and
proceedings in-that case, and that the same might be made a
part of the records of the District Court; and it was thereupon
ordered by the court, that the case be entered upon its docket.
Objection was made by the defendants to the tiansfer of this
case from the Circuit Court of the provisional Government,
(ride Kearney Code,) to the District Court created by Congress,
upon the ground that the Legislative Assembly had no power
to authorize such a transfer. This objection was overruled by
the District Court, and exception was taken to its decision.
Afterwards, viz: on the 25th of March, 1852, the defendants
in the attachment so far submitted themselves to the jurisdiction of the District Court, as to plead to the averments in the
petition and affidavit, and to pray judgment of the action, be.
cause they say that at the-time of the institution of the suit,
viz: on the 30th day of July, 1849, the defendants had not
fraudulently disposed of their property, so as to hinder, delay,
and defraud their creditors. And again, at the .same term of
the said District Court, the defendants, upon affidavits mad
by them of the insufficiency of the sureties in the bond filed by
the plaintiff in the attachment, applied for and obtained from
that court an order for further security, which security was,
upon the said application and order, given by the plaintiff.
On the 1st day of October, '1852, this cause was, upon the
petition and affidavit, the plea of the defendants, and the evidence produced by the parties, submitted to a jury, who fohnd
that the affidavit of the plaintiff was true; whereupon it was
considered and ordered by the court that the cause should proceed, and that the defendants should plead to the merits of the
plaintiff's demand; and the defendants having pleaded that
they did not promise and undertake as the plaintiff had charged
them, and upon this last issue the cause having been committed to a jury, they found for the plaintiff; and assessed his damages at ten thousand three hundred and thirty dollars and
twenty-five cents. After the finding of the juries upon both
the issues in this case, motions were made, first for a new trial,
and secondly for an arrest of judgment, both of which motions
were overruled. As these were motions submitted to the dis.cretion of the court, and determined by it upon facts and circumstances not fully disclosed upon thi record, it would be
improper in this court, and in conflict with its settled rule of
action, to overrule or even to canvass the decision of the court
which overruled these motions.
In the objection which was taken to the power of the Legislative Assembly to transfer the iognizance of causes previously
pending under the laws of the provisional Government to the

182

SUPREME COURT.
Leitensdorfer et al. v. Webb.

courts created by the act of Congress establishing the Territory
of New Mexico, we can perceive no force. " It was, undoubtedlv, within the competency of Congress either to define directly, by their own act, the jurisdiction of the courts created
by them, or to delegate the authority requisite for that purpose
to the Territorial Government; and by either proceeding, to
permit or to deny the transfer of any legitimate power or jurisdiction previously exercised by the courts of the provisional
Government, to the tribunals of the Government they were
about to substitute*for the Territory, in lieu of the temporary
or provisional Government. This power we consider was, in
fact, delegated by Congress to the Territorial Government by
the seventh-section of the act of 1850, which declares, that
"the legislative power of the Territory shall extend to all rightful subjects of legislation consistent with the Constitution of
the United States and with this act;" and by the tenth section
of the act, which, after ordaining a Supreme Court, District
and Probate Courts, and justices of the peace, and after dividing the Territory into three judicial districts, and directing a
District Court to be held in each district, by one of the judges
of the Supreme Court, goes on to declare, that "the jurisdiction of the several courts therein provided for, both appellate
and original, and that of the Probate Courts, and of justices of
the peace,, shall be as limited by law."
The inquiry regularly suggested by these provisions of the
act of Congress, is not whether they invested the Legislative
Assembly with authority to prescribe the subjects for the cognizance of the courts created by that act-of this there can be
no doubt-but whether the authority delegated to that Assembly has been in fact, and to what extent, exerted with reference
to controversies previously in. litigation in the courts of the
provisional Government, and to subjects of controversy subsequently arising.
Under the provisions of the act of Congress above quoted,
the Legislative Assembly have, in several instances, prescribed
the powers and duties of the Territorial courts, and' among
others, by the fourth section of the act of that Assembly, passed
on the 12th of July, 1851; by which section. it is declared, that
the District Courts shall have original jurisdiction in all cases,
civil and criminal, in which the jurisdiction is not specially
delegated to some other court; and by the second seetion of
the act of the Assembly, approved on the 14th of July, 1851,
expressly providing,." that all bonds, writs, and processes, which
have remained in force, shall be carried to a final decision -in
the courts established by the Legislative Assembly, to the same
effect as they would have been in the courts previously existing."

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.
Leitendorfer el al. v. Webb.

As the Legislative Assembly possessed no power to organize
or create courts differing from those created by the act of Congress, which act had divided the Territory into districts, and
had designated the courts which should be vested either with
appellate or original jurisdiction, it would seem to follow that,
by an act of the Legislative Assembly, designed to preserve,
and to prevent the discontinuance of rights in litigation subsisting in the courts of the provisional Government, the distribution of the cognizance of those rights was intended to be
made to courts corresponding in their jurisdiction with the tribunals of th6 provisional Government.
Such appears to have been the interpretation, by the judges
of the Supreme Court of the Territory, of the acts of the Legislative Assembly, and by which interpretation they have recognised the transfer of causes pending in the Circuit Courts of
the provisional Government, for final decision, to the District
Courts under the Territorial Government; and although there,
is some obscurity in the language of the Territorial statutes
on-this subject, yet the reasonableness of their interpretation
by the Supreme Court and the District Courts of the Territory
commends it to our approval, and its adoption conforms to the
rule of this court, by which it has followed thd construction
of local statutes established by the highest judicial authority
of the community for whose government they are enacted.
I At the trial of the issue joined upon the verity and effect of
the affidavit, the plaintiff in the attachment, to maintain that
issue, on his part,produeed in evidence and proved the execution of an assignment, by which Leitensdorfer had conveyed
all his goods, wares, and merchandise, and all his property and
effects, of the late firm of Leitensdorfer & Co. Also, an instrument executed at the same time, by Joab Houghton, the other
member of the firm, whereby he authorized the assignees of
Leitensdorfer & Co. to use and sign his name in any way that
it might be necessary for them to use it in settling the business of the late firm of Leitensdorfer & Co. By the deed
from Leitensdoifer, certain creditors to the amount of between
twenty and thirty thousand dollars were preferred, besides all
sums of money due by Leitensdorfer & Co. for simple deposits
or money loaned without interest; after which, the general
creditors were to be paid pro rata, from whatever might be collected, until the assets should be exhausted. There was no
inyentory of assets, nor any schedule of debts due by said
Leitensdorfer, attached to or accompanying the deed of assignment. The deed provided that a fair and correct list of the
liabilities of Leitensdorfer & Co., and also a fair list, so far as
could be made, of all the assets, was to be made within ten

SUPREME COURT.
Leitenwdorfer et al. v. Webb.

days after signing the deed; within this period, an inventory
of assets was made out, but no list of liabilities. Some persons, whose names were not in the assignment, who had deposited with or loaned money without interest to the firm,
were paid by the assignees, and the deed was not pursued in
other respects. Upon the closing of the testimony on the trial
in the District Court, the defendants, the now plaintiffs in
error, moved the court for the following instructions to the
jury, all of which were refused:
1. That as the assignment was the act of Leitensdorfer alone,
with which Ioughton had nothing to do, the act of one defendant would not authorize an attachment against two, and
the verdict must be for the defendants.
2. That the deed of assignment was not fraudulent in law;
and unless the jury find, from the evidence, that in fact, at the
time of the commencement of this suit, the plaintiff had good
reason to believe that the defendants had fraudulently disposed bf their property and effects, so as to hinder, delay, and
defraud their creditors, they must find for the defendants.
3. That as the plaintiff had shown no title to the note sued
on in himself, he had no authority to sue, and the jury must
find for the defendants.
The court then instructed the jury that the deed was fraudulent in law, because of the want of a schedule thereunto annexed of the property and effects conveyed to the assignees,
and because of the want of a schedule of the preferred creditors, and because of a preference of some creditors; and also,
if the jury found that the defendants, or either of them, had
fraudulently disposed of their property and effects, so as to
hinder, delay, or defraud their creditors, at the time of the
commencement of this suit, they must find for the plaintiff.
That the executionl of the deed by Leitensdorfer, unaccompanied by the proper schedules, was a fraudulent disposition
in law, as aforesaid; and that the commission of a fraud in laiv
by. the defendants, or either of them, without fraud in fact,
or without an intent to defraud, was a sufficient cause for the
attachment as the commission of a fraud in fact, or with intent
to defraud. And also, that upon the trial of this issue it was
not necessary for the plaintiff to show himself a creditor of the
defendants, farther than is shown in the affidavit, to entitle
him to a verdict in his favor upon the issue of the truth of the
affidavit; but that the sole issue was, whether the defendants,
or either of them, at the time of the commencement of the
suit, had fraudulently disposed of their property and effects, so
as to hinder, delay, or defraud their creditors.
Upon the refusal by the court of the first, second, and third

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

185

.Le tendorfer et al. v. Webb.

prayers presented by the defendants, and to the granting of
the instructions prayed for by the plaintiff below, the defendants excepted.
Upon the trial of the issue joined on the plea in bar to the
action; no question of law was raised, no exception taken to
any of the proceedings under that issue.
On an appeal from the judgment of the District Court to
the Supreme Court of the Territory of New Mexico, the judgment of the District Court was, on the 28th of February, 1853,
affirmed.
It is obvious, that in the proceedings in the District Court,
neithei the justice nor the amount of the plaintiff's demand
was put in controversy. These were not embraced within the
issue raised upon the petition and affidavit. That issue related
only to the right of the plaintiff to sue in a particular form of
action,-a right dependent upon his ability to show the alleged
character of the defendants' acts, with respect to their creditors
generally, and not with respect to the plaintiff particularly or
exclusively. The verity and the amount of the plaintiff's demand were matters for distinct and ulterior investigation. The
proceeding, then, upon the petition and affidavit, was in reality
a proceeding in abatement, and not in bar of the plaintiff-'s
debt or right of recovery. This appears to be a regular conclusion from the language of the law of the Territory, and it
is in accordance with the construction by the courts of a neighboring State of a law identical in its provisions with the law
of the KearneyCode, and from which law it is not improbable
that the latter was adopted. (Vide Missouri Reports, vol. 5,
p. 544; ib., .13, p. 118; ib., 14, p. 600; ib., 15, p. 499.)
It is true, that by the practice of the State courts the preliminary proceedings upon the petition and affidavit, and any questions of law ruled by the courts in those proceedings, are carried
for review to the tribunals of last resort. But this is a practice
authorized by the States under their peculiar jurisprudence.
The States possess an undoubted power to permit or to require
of their courts the re-examination and control of proceedifigs
in their own tribunals, entirely interlocutory in their nature.
The appellate or revisory power of this court, as defined by
the Constitution and laws of the United States, is more restricted in its extent than that with which some of the States
have invested their courts. By the twenty-second section of
the act of Congress to establish the judicial courts of the United
States, it is declared that final judgments and decrees in civil
actions and suits in equity in a Circuit Court, brought there
by original process, or removed there from the courts of the
several States, or from a District Court, where the matter in

SUPREME COURT.
Fisher v. Haldeman et al.

dispute exceeds the sum or value of two thousand dollars, exclusive of costs, may be examined, and reversed or affirmed,
in the Supreme Court. But there shall be no reversal for
error in ruling any plea in abatement other than a plea to the
jurisdiction of the court, or such plea to a petition or bill in
equity, as is in the nature of a demurrer.
From this provision in the act of Congress it follows, that
the preliminary proceeding in the District Court of the Territory, being in its nature interlocutory, and designed to abate
the particular remedy by attachment only, and having no application to the plaintiff's right to a recovery of his demand,
or to the jurisdiction of the Territorial court, either as to the
parties or the subject-matter of the controversy, that proceeding comes not within the appellate or revisory power of this
court.
Upon the trial in chief, or upon the merits, there appears to
have been no question made, nor any point reserved upon the
law or the evidence; the record of this trial. presents simply
the finding of the jury, and the judgment of the District Court
upon that finding. The decision of the Supreme Court of the
Territory in sustaining the judgment of the District Court
must therefore be affirmed.
ISAAC M. FISHER, APPELLANT, V. JOHN HALDEMAN, JACOB S.
HALDEMAN, RICHARD J. HALDEMAN, AND ROBERT J. Ross,
EXECUTORS OF JACOB IALDEMAN, DECEASED, AND THOMAS
CHAMBERS, ADMINISTRATOR DE BONIS NON OF THOMIAS DUNCAN, DECEASED.
By the laws of Pennsylvania before the Revolution, a pre-emption right to islands
in the Susquehanna river could not be obtained by settlement.
The courts of that State have so decided, and thi- court adopts their decision.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the eastern district of Pennsylvania.
The bill was filed by Fisher, a citizen of the State of Delaware, against the appellees, claiming to be the equitable owner
of an island in the Susquehanna river, and alleging that the
appellees had become possessed of the legal title by a series of
frauds. The bill was quite voluminous, occupying upwards
of seventy pages of the printed record, and then there was an
amended bill of thirteen pages more. The substance of it, as
well as the other branches of the case, are stated in the opinion
of the court. In September, 1856, the Circuit Court dismissed
the bill, and the complainant appealed to this court.

