SUPREME COURT.
Day v. Union India Rubber Company.

to the act of 1789, ch. 21, known as the process act of that
year.
This act (sec. 2) declares, that until further provision shall
be made, and except where by this act "or other statutes of the
United States is otherwise provided," the forms of writs and executions, and modes of process in suits at common law, shall be
the same in each State, respectively, as are now used or allowed
in the Supreme Court of the same. This was to be the mode
of process, unless provision had been made by Congress; and,
to the extent that Congress had provided, the State laws should
not operate.
Now, the only statute of the United States then existing, regulating practice, was the judiciary act of 1789, (ch. 20,) which
is above recited. The eleventh section is excepted out of and
stands unaffected by the subsequent process acts, and is as
applicable in this case as it was to those where jurisdiction depended on citizenship. It applies in its terms to all civil suits;
it makes no exception, nor can the courts of justice make
any.
The judicial power extends to all cases in law and equity
arising under the Constitution and laws of the United States,
and it is pursuant to this clause of the Constitution that the
United States courts are vested with power to execute the
laws respecting inventors and patented inventions; but where
suits are to be brought is left to the general law: to wit, to the
eleventh section of the judiciary act, which requires personal
service of process, within the district where the suit is brought,
if the defendant be an inhabitant of another State.
This case, and that of Day against Hayward, depend on the
same grounds of jurisdiction, and were both correctly decided
in the Circuit Court; and the judgment in each is affirmed.

HORACE

H.

DAY,

V. THE UNION INDIA RUBBER
COMPANY.

APPELLANT,

The party defendants in the present suit have as much right to manufacture various articles of India rubber under Chaffee's patent, as the licensees in the case
of Hartshorn v. Day, 19 How.

THis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the southern district of New York.
The case is stated in the opinion of. the court.
It was argued by Mr.ClarenceA. Seward and Mr.Jenckes for

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

217

Day v. Union Inda Rubber Company.

the appellant, and by Mr. NVoyes for the appellees, upon which
side there was -also a brief by Mr. Staples.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the southern district of New York.
The bill was filed in the court below by Day, as assignee of
the patent of Edwin M. Chaffee, for a new improvement in
preparing and applying India rubber to cloth, &c., dated the
31st August, 1836, and renewed for seven years from the 31st
August, 1850, against the defendants, for an alleged infringement during the running of the renewed term.
The questions involved in the case are, substantially, the
same as those presente& and de6ided in the case of Hartshorn
et al. v. Day, at the last term, and reported in 19 How., p. 211.
That was an action at law, brought by the same plaintit
upon this patent, against the defendants, who were licensees
under Charles Goodyear, for the manufacture of India rubber
boots and shoes. The defendants in the present case are
licensees under Goodyear, for the manufacture of India rubber cloth for various purposes. In both cases, the right to
manufacture the article rested upon the authority of Goodyear
to grant the license, as derived from Chaffee, the patentee.
The court held, in the case of Hartshorn et al. v. Day, that
under the agreement of the 5th September, 1850, between
Chaffee, the patentee, and William Judson, the entire ownership in the patent, legal and equitable, passed to Judson, for
the benefit of Goodyear and those holding rights under him,
and on that ground decided in favor of the licensees.
Now, in this case the licenses under Goodyear to manuizcture cloth of the description claimed are as broad and ample
as were those to the defendants in the case just mentioned.
Goodyear became the sole owner of the patent of Chaffee as
early as 28th June, 1844, and on the 18th July following gave
a license to the Naugatuck India Rubber Company, to manufacture cloths, with certain exceptions, under all his patents-those in which he was' then interested or in which he might
thereafter be interested, issued or to be issued-and, also, in
all renewals of patents. He also gave a like extensive license,
on the 28th of March, 1847, to W. E. & John Rider, for manufacturing of ships' letter and mail bags; and in February of
the same year, a similar license to manufacture wearing apparel, &c., to Jonathan Trotter; and on the 1st July, 1848,
one to Trotter and W. Rider & Brother,. for the manufacture
of army and navy equipment , sheet rubber, &c. All these
various licenses afterwards became consolidated in the Union

SUPREME COURT.
Day v. Unio India Rubber Company.

India Rubber Company, the defendants in this suit, and present therefore a complete defence to the suit, if Goodyear was
the true owner of the Chaffee renewed patent. And this, as
we have seen, has already been held in the case of Hartshorn
v,Day.
Besides, in the agreement of the 5th September, 1850, between Chaffee and Judson, it is expressly stated that the patent
was conveyed to the latter, to secure it for the benefit of Goodyear and those holding rights to use it under and in connection
with his licenses; andJudson was also directed to hold it for
their benefit.
The license of the defendants therefore, in this case, stands
upon two grounds, either of which would seem to constitute a
sufficient defence to the suit for infringement: First, authority
from Goodyear, the owner of the renewed term of the patent;
and second, the express recognition of Chaffee, the patentee,
of the right of these parties as licensees of Goodyear to use
the improvement. And we may add to these grounds of defence, that upon the interpretation of the court in the case of
Hartshorn v. Day, of the several agreements relating to this
patent, and especially that of 5th September, 1850, Day took
no interest in it under the assignment of Chaffee of 1st July,
1853, he having previous to that time parted with all his interest for the benefit of Goodyear and his licensees.
Some evidence has been given in the case for the purpose
of showing that the agreement of 5th September was not sealed
at the time of its execution, and that the seal must have been
annexed afterwards without any authority. But it is too slight
and uncertain to be entitled to any weight.
It has also been insisted that this instrument was procured
by fraud from Chaffee, through the contrivance of Judson.
But the evidence relied on is very general and unsatisfactory;
and, besides, it is too late to set up any such ground of defence
after Chaffee himself has carried the agreement into execution,
and acted under it, receiving its benefits for some three years.
And what is remarkable on this point, he is the chief witness
to make out the alleged fraud.
It has also been urged that the licensees have not contributed to the fund for paying the expenses of the renewal of the
patent. But this is a matter in which Chaffee had no interest.
He has taken the indemnity of Judson against these expenses.
The licensees were never liable to him for them.
Without pursuing the examination further, we are entirely
satisfied, for the reasons above stated, that the decree below is
right, and should be affirmed.

