442

SUPREME COURT.
Brown v. Wiley et al.

script, we are unable to discover error in any part of the proceedings.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore affirmed,
with costs.
TAYLOR BROWN,- PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. LEROY M. WILEY,
HUGH R. BANKS, WILLIAM G. LANE, HENRY VAN DERZEE,
AND EDWARD H. LANE, MERCHANTS, TRADING UNDER THE NAME
AND STYLE OF L. M. WILEY & Co.
Where a bill of exchange was drawn in proper form and protested for non-acceptance, parol evidence of an understanding between the drawer and the party in
whose favor the bill was drawn, calculated to vary the terms of the instrument,
was not admissible.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the District
Court of the United States for the district of Texas.
Wiley & Co. were citizens of New York, and Brown a citizen of Texas.
The cause of action was the following bill of exchange:
$2,359.26.
SHREVEPORT, iliareh 23, 1854.
On or before the 1st of May next, 1855, please pay to order
L. M. Wiley & Co. twenty-three hundred and fifty-nine and

twenty-six one hundredths dollars, for value received, and
charge same to my account, without further advice.
TAYLOR BROWN.

Messrs. Campbell & Strong, merchants, New Orleans.
By W. L. MCMURRAY.

This draft was presented and protested for non-acceptance
on the 10th of June, 1854, more than ten months before the
time when it was payable; and it appeared from the record
that the suit was instituted against the drawer in February,
1855; nearly three months before the maturity of the bill.
The petition, as amended, contained the usual averments of
the drawing of the draft, its presentation for acceptance, protest, and notice of dishonor.
The defence was, that there were two bills of similar character, except thaLt one was payable in May, 1854, and the other
in May, 1855; and that it was agreed by the parties that the
second should not be presented for acceptance until the first
was taken up. These pleas were, on motion of the plaintiffs'
counsel, stricken out.
The cause then came on for trial, and the defendant offered
evidence to prove these facts, the result of which is stated in
the following extract from the bill of exceptions:

DRCEMBEIR TERM, 1857.
Brmn v. Wiley et al.

"The defendant's counsel then offered to prove, that at the
time the draft was delivered, it was expressly stipulated and
agreed, by and between W. L. McMurray, the agent of the defendant, and Charles Keith, the agent of the plaintiffs, that
the said draft should not be presented for acceptance until the
defendant should provide for the payment'of a previous draft,
drawn by the same party, in favor of the same parties, upon
the same drawees, falling due in April, 1854, according to an
understanding had with the drawees; and that said draft would
not have been delivered to plaintiffs' agent, if he had not have
agreed to hold it up. This was objected to by plaintiffs' counsel, and the objection sustained; to which ruling and decision
of the court the defendant excepts."
The jury found a verdict for the plaintiffs, and the defendant
brought the case up to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Reverdy Johnson (upon which side
there was also a brief *by Mr. Rtqhes) for the plaintiff in error,
and by Mr. Laroeque for the defendants.
The following notice of the points made by the counsel for
the plaintiff in error is taken from the brief of Mr. Hughes:
Is the defence set forth, if true, a good bar of the cause of
action of the plaintiffs below?
In regard to this, we think there can be no difficulty. The
draft is dated at Shreveport, and the plaintiffs below in their
petition state that the draft was drawn- "at Shreveport, in the
State of Louisiana," upon "Messrs. Campbell & Strong, at the
city of 1ew Orleans, in the State of Louisiana." The draft
then was a Louisiana contract, and .subject to the law of that
State in regard to its validity, force, and effect. (Lynch v.
Postlethwaite, .7 Martin R., 213.)
It is admitted that the general rule of the common law is,
that it is not competent by parol evidence to alter, vYary, or
change a written instrument in its essential terms; and this is
believed also to be the rule of the Louisiana law. But this
general rule has no application to the agreement set forth in
the answer of the defendant in the court below. That agreement did not in any sense propose to alter, vary, or change
the written agreement between the parties. 'As already intimated, though the money mentioned in the draft was not due
for a year after date, without some .limitation of or restriction
upon the rule of the law merchant, if presented for acceptance,
and acceptance refused, payment might be enforced by suit,
on the cause of action furnished by the refusal to accept, without regard to the time of payment stipulated in the draft. To

444

SUPREME COURT.
Brown v. Wiley et at.

prevent this was the object of the agreement attempted to be set
up by the amended answer. That agreement contains nothing
which is in conflict with the terms of the draft sued on, or, in
any sense, attempts to alter, vary, or change the same in an
essential part. It does, however, restrain the holder in raising
a cause of action by an act to be done by him; which was an
act that he might or might not, at his election, perform, and
which, of course, it was competent fbr him, upon sufficient
consideration, to agree not to do, and such agreement would
be collateral only to the draft.
In a case in Louisiana, it was offered to prove that the defendant's endorsement on the note sued on was merely as security, and that the same was to be paid out of collections to be
made of claims due to the drawers. The court said: "We have
repeatedly held that the article of our code which provides that
parol evidence shall not be received beyond or against the contents of a written act, is inapplicable to a case of this kind.
The evidence offered was neither to contradict nor explain a
written instrument, but to prove a collateral fact in relation
to it." (Dwight v. Linton, 3 Rob. La. R., 57.)
And here, the fact was clearly collateral, for the effect of the
agreement was a waiver of the right by the payees to demand
an acceptance, and of the consequent right to enforce payment
by reason of non-acceptance, until it had been ascertained
whether a certain act had been performed; but there was no
agreement by which the right to sue or recover was denied,
after the expiration of twelve months, the time the draft, had
to run to maturity.
Again: the same court have said that parol evidence is admissible, to prove an agreement between parties, that a bill of
exchange, which had been drawn by one of them in favor of
the other, should not be negotiated. (Robertson v. Nott, 2
Martin, N. S., 122.)
In that case, there was nothing to alter, vary, or change a
written instrument, but an agreement to waive a right conferred
by law, by reason of the nature of the instrument, within the
reason of which this case is clearly embraced; for this, like that
case, asks for the admission of evidence to prove a collateral
f'act, which, so far from contradicting, or altering, or changing
a written instruiment, proves an agreement cotemporaneously
with it, which leaves the written agreement intact, but limits
the right which the law gives, by virtue of the draft, of presentment for acceptance at an indefinite period before the maturity
of the same.
It canfiot be said that no injury is done to the plaintiff in
error, and that he has no right to complain by reason of the

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

445 -

Brown v. Wiley et al.

violation of the agreement attempted to be set up, in present.
ing the draft for acceptance before it had been ascertained
whether the other draft had been provided for, and-suing, as
upon a cause of action, for its dishonor by non-acceptance.
The draft sued on, by its terins, was due on the 23d day of
March, 1855, and was presented for non-aeceptance, and protested on the 10th day of June, 1854; and the other draft was
provided for in July, 1854, and the suit was commenced on the
9th day of February, 1855, one month and fourteen days before the draft sued on became due according to its terms, and
without any -application for acceptance, on or after the time
when the first draft was provided for. From this statement,
we think sufficient cause of.-complaint arises. A debt for a
large amount is created, and is to be provided for by payment
by the defendant to the plaintiff below; two drafts are drawn
by the defendants upon their correspondents in New Orleans
in favor of the plaintiff below, one having but a short time to
run to maturity, and the other at twelve months after date;
and at the time, itis agreed by the parties that the latter draft is'
not to be presented for acceptance until the former is provided
for by the drawer, and this agreement is made in consideration
of the drawing of the drafts, and concurrent therewith. The
short draft is provided for before the other.becomes due; and
before the maturity of the same, an action is commenced upon
a cause of action, by virtue of a protest made in violation of
the agreement on the subject. It would be strange, indeed, if
no complaint could be made under such circumstances. We
think it enough that contracts are performed, or their performance enforced by suit at the time, or after they become due.
Again: it may be attempted to be maintained that -the draft,
the providing or non-providing for which was to fix and determine-the time for the presentment for acceptance of the draft
sued on, being due by its terms in May, 1854, and being then,
and continuing up to the time of the protest of the draft sued
on unprovided for, the time had arrived at. which to present
the same for acceptance.
. But this was not the agreement; no time wag specified in
which the short draft was to be provided for. We must presume, from the terms use& that this draft had been accepted
by the drawers, and that it was paid at maturity; and were the
fact not so, something further would have been heard of it.
Whether it was provided for in time, so that ihe drawers and
acceptors might not be compelled topay without funds in the
hand of the drawer, was a matter with which the payees had
nothing to do; they had no right to complain, if the draft ac-.
cepted was paid at maturity. The provision for the bill, when

SUPREME COURT.
Brown v. Wiley et al.

due, was a question between the drawer and his correspondent
who had accepted. All that the payees in regard to the draft
sued on had to do, was to see that in due time that was done
which gave him a right of presentation for acceptance on the
draft sued on; and, the act having been performed, then to present his draft for acceptance, and upon refusal, to take such
steps as would charge the drawer, or waiting its maturity, to
present for payment, and upon refusal, in like manner to charge
the drawer by reason of its non-payment. It would be a strange
rule, indeed, if the plaintiffs below, having had the full benefit
of the agreement attempted to be set up in the acceptance and
payment of the first draft, should, in violation of the other part
of said agreement, be permitted to maintain a suit, without
dpmanding refusal of acceptance after said first draft was provided for, and before the maturity, by its terms, of the draft
sued on; and against this wrong the plaintiff in error thinks
he is justified in asking the protection of the court.
Upon the partic ar point under consideration, ilr.Larocque
said:
The proof offered by the defendant on the trial was incompetent and inadmissible. It was to-prove a parol agreement,
made at the time of drawing the draft, and not embodied in it,
inconsistent with its terms and legal effect. This would be
contrary to the well-settled rule of law on the subject. (Bank
of the United States v. Dunn, 6 Pet., 51; Bank of Metropolis
v. Jones, 8 Pet., 12; Rockmore v. Davenport, 14 Texas R., 602;
Creery v. Holly, 14 Wend., 30, per Nelson, J.; Thompson v.
Ketchum, 8 Johns., 189.)
It is the lex fori which governs in this case as to the admissibility of the defence offered by plea, or of evidence to support it. The effort is not to show that by the law of Louisiana
the legal import of the bill in question is different from the
signification attached to it by the general commercial law, but
that an agreement by parol, contrary to that legal import, was
made at the same time. (Story's Conflict of Laws, sees. 634,
634 a, 635, and cases cited in notes, particularly Yates v. Thompson, 3 Clark and Finnell, 577, 580, by Lord Brougham.)
2. The cases cited from Louisiana, of Dwight v. Linton, 3
Rob. R., 57, and Robertson v. Nott, 2 Mart., 9. S., 122, cannot, with great respect to the court which decided them, be
sustained.
3. The agreement set up in this case would be void for repugnance and uncertainty. The other draft actually matured
May 15. 1854, before thp presentment of the one in suit. which
was on the'10th of June, 1854; and the theory of the attempted

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

-. 447

Brown v. WRIV et al.

defence necessarily is, that if the defendant had never chosen
to reimburse the drawees the amount of the previous draft, if
they had paid it without funds, or never to provide them with
funds to pay it, the bill in suit never could be presented, or payment demanded.
1. That the cases of Dwight v. Linton,- 3 Rob. La. R., 57,
and Robertson v. Nott, 2 Martin, N . S., 122, have not since
been followed, even in Louisiana, but substantially, though
tacitly, overruled. (Police Jury v. Haw, 2 La. R., 42; Robechot v. Folse, 11 ib., 133; Arnous v. Davern, 18 ib., 42; Barthete v. Estebene, 5 La. Ann. R., 315; Gosserband v. Lacour,
8 ib., 75; Williams v. Flood, 11 ib., 113.)
2. That it is the lex fori,and not the lex lod contractus,which
governs the question, according to the decisions in -Louisiana
herself. (Shewell v. Raguet, 17 La. .,, 457.)
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
Wiley & Co., plaintiffs below, declared on a bill of exchange
drawn by Taylor Brown on Messrs. Campbell & Strong, of
:New Orleans, to order of plaintiff, dated, 23d of March, 1854,
and payable on the 1st of May, 1855. It was presented for
acceptance on the 10th of June, 1854, and was protested for
non-acceptance; of which the drawer had due notice.
It is admitted the bill was-given for full value; but the defendant set up by way of special plea, and offered to prove
to the jury, a parol agreement between him and the plaintiffs,
that this bill should not' be presented for acceptance till after a
certain other draft, payable in May, 1854, was provided for, by
placing funds in the hands of the drawees, who had agreed to
.accept the last bill after funds had been received to meet their
acceptance of the first.
It is the rejection of this defence by the court below that is
the subject of exception. It presents the question, whether
parol evidence should have been received, to vary, alter, or contradict that which appears on the face of the bill of exchange.
When'the operation of a contract is clearly settled by general principles of-law, it is taken to be the true sense of the
contracting parties. This is not only a positive rule of the
common law, but it is a general principle in the construction
of contracts. Some precedents to the contrary may be found
in some of our States, originating in hard cases,; but they are
generally overruled by the same tribunals from which they
emanated, on experience of the evil consequences flowing from
a relaxation of the rule. There is no ambiguity arising in this
case which needs explanation. By the face of the bill, the
owner of it had a right to demand aceptance immediately, and

448

SUPREME COURT.
Warner v. Norton et al.

to protest it for non-acceptance. The proof of a parol contract,
that it should not be presentable till a distant, uncertain, or
undefined period, tended to alter and vary, in a very material
degree, its operation and effect. (See Thompson v. Ketchum,
8 John., 192.)
Any number of conflicting cases on this subject might be
cited. It will be sufficient to refer to the decisions of this
court, those of Texas, where the suit was brought, and of Louisiana, where the contract was made.
In the Bank of United States v. Dunn, (6 Peters, 56,) this
court have declared "that there is no rule better settled or more
salutary in its application than that which precludes the admission of parol evidence to contradict or substantially vary
the legal import of a written agreement." The case of Brochmore v. Davenport, 14 Texas Rep., 602, a case precisely similar to the present, adopts the same rule. The case of Robishat
v. Folse, 11 Louisiana, and of Barthet v. Estebene, 5 Ann.
Rep., 315, and several others, acknowledge the same doctrine,
thereby overruling -some early cases in touisiana which had
departed from it.
This being the only point urged by plaintiff in error as a
ground of reversal, the judgment of the court below is affirmed.

FRANCIS WARNER, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. CEPHAS H. NORTON,
ALBERT JEWETT, BENJAMIN C. BUSBY, JOHN C. PHELPS,
JOHN J. PHELPS, ISAAC N. PHELPS, AND' JAMES BEMAN, DEFENDANTS.
Where a sheriff was sued for taking goods under an attachment, which goods had
been previously assigned under circumstances which were alleged to be fraudulent, it was proper for the court to charge the jury, "that if they believed, from
the evidence, that the sale was made for the purpose of hindering, delaying, or
defrauding creditors, it was invalid as against the defendant: and that whether the
sale was or was not fraudulent was a question of fact, to be determined by the
jury under all the circumstances of the case; that if the sale were secret, and no
means taken to apprise the public of it, these were facts which threw suspicion
upon the transaction, but did not make the sale fraudulent in law as against the
defendant.
A decision an a motion for a new trial, being addressed to the discretion of the court,
is no ground for a writ of error.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the northern district of Illinois.
It was an action of trespass brought by Torton, Jewett, &
Busby, against Warner, for taking certain goads in a storehouse
in the village of Lasalle. Warnerj ustified the taking, as sheriff
of Lasalle county, under certain writs of attachment against
one Haskins, the former owner.

