DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

393

_Peo
pld, Ferry Company of Boston v. Beer et aZ.

complainant. The court overruled the exception and confirmed
the report on this point; and, nevertheless, assess the damage
at ten-fold the amount. By what process of reasoning or arifmetic, on what facts or what principle of law, this astonishing and ruinous decree is founded, it does not undertake to
explain. I can conceive of no other ground than that the
court have calculated the whole profit of the stove, as was
done in the case of Seymour v. McCormick, and overruled by
this court.
Believing, therefore, that the decree of this court, so far as
it affirms any portion of the decree of the Circuit Court, is not
only unsustained by evidence, but contrary to the law as heretofore established by this court, I cannot give my assent to it.

THE PEOPLE'S FERRY Co MPANY OF BOSTON, CLAIMA.S OF TiHE
STEAMBOAT JEFFERSON, APPELLANTS, V. JOSEPH BEERS AND

DAVID WARNER, ASSIGNEES

oF B. C. TERRY.

The admiralty jurisdiction of the courts of the United States does not extend to
cases where a lien is claimed by the builders of a vessel for work done and materials found in its construction.
Whether the District Courts can enforce a lien in such cases, where the law of the
State where the vessel was built gave a lien for its 'construction, is a questiopwhich the court does not now decide.
1
.
.
[MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TANEY, HAVING MEEN INDISPOSED-, DID NOT SIT IN TUIS CAUSE.]

THIs was an appeal from the Circuit Court, of the United

States for the southern district of New York.
"
The facts of the case are stated in the opinioh of the court.
It was argued by Mr. O'Connor for the appellants, and Mr.
Benedict for the appellees.
Mr. O'Connormade the following points:
First .Point.-A.contract to build and complete, a ship or vessel is not within the admiralty jurisdiction of the United States
courts, though it be intended to employ her in navigating the
ocean, and even though the employer bea citizen or inhabitant of some other State or country than that in which the
work is to be done; much less is a contract merely to construct
the hull of an intended vessel within that jurisdiction.
I. The Constitution and laws of the United States conferred
on the courts of the Union the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, as it existed at our separation from the parent State,
under a just view of :English jrisp udence.
.

SUPREME COURT.
People's Ferry Company of Boston v: Beers et al.

1. The attempt to tie down the jurisdiction, as a moral and
legal entity, to a definition based upon the instances in which
the English court has been able to exercise its powers in despite of judicial rivalry and hostility, may not have succeeded.
But there is nothing inconsistent with the above proposition
(I) in any of the decisions of this court which carry the exercise of admiralty cognizance beyond the limit marked by practice in England prior to and at the Revolution, nor even in
any of the opinions favoring such extension. (Genesee Chief
v. Fitzhugh, 12 How., 455; New Jersey Steam Navigation
Company v. Merchants' Bank, 6 How., 392; 18 How., 189.)
2. No one at this day will propose to extend the admiralty
jurisdiction to all cases which would fall within it according
to the practice of continental Europe. And unless it is definea
by a reference to the true principles of that law on which
our whole judicial polity is based, we shall be left without
guide or precedent. (1 Kent's Com., 369, notes, 8th ed.)
H. The laws of continental Europe in respect to claims for repairs and supplies to ships orvessels, and in respectto the question
of admiralty jurisdiction, do not discriminate between foreign
and domestic vessels. The law of England always has so discriminated, and this court has in like manner discriminated. In
English and American law, the admiraltyjurisdiction is confined
to repairs, &c., furnished in a place other than the home port
of the vessel. (The Nestor, 1 Sumner, 79; Justin v. Ballam,
2 Ld. Raym., 806, first resolution; 3 Hagg., 144; 3 Knapp P.
C. R., 194; Act of 3d and 4th Vic., el. 65, see. 6; The Alexander, 1 W. Robinson, 288; ib., 360; Ward v. Peck, 18 How.,
267; Benedict's Adm., see. 108; Zane v. The Brig President,
4 Wash. C. C. R., 456; The General Smith, 4 Wheaton, 438;
12th Admiralty Rule of this court; 1 Curtis's Com., sections
51, 52.)
1. The Roman civil law and the law of several modern nations, estimating less highly than the English common law the
free and unrestricted circulation of property, gave a lien on
solid grounds of natural equity to the producer, preserver,
and improver of a thing, and to him who lent money for
any of these purposes. This policy extended alike to every
description of property. (Cushing's Domat, secs. 1741, 1745,
1765; The Nestor, 1 Sumner, 79; Bee's Ad. Rep., 78; Code
Civil of Napoleon, see. 2103, subs. 4, 5; French Com. Code,
Book 2, art. 191, sec. 8; Civil Code of Louisiana, art. 3194,
3204 to 3215; Vanleuwen's Roman Dutch Law, Book, 4, ch.
13, sec. 8.)
2. The English common law, on the contrary, favoring the
free negotiation of property, gave no lien in any of these cases,

DECEMBER'TERM, 1857.

895

1'eqjW8 Ferry Comyany of Boston v. .Beerm et al.

unless the claimant retain possession of.the thing. And even
those nations of Europe which adopted the civil law as the
general basis of their jurisprudence, and yet held intimate relations with England, assimilated. their laws to the English
policy. (Lickbarrow v. Mason, 1 Smith's Leading Cases, 430;
Phila. Law Reg., 1856, vol. 4, p. 577; Bell's Com., sees. 1385,
1387, 1397.)
3. There was no reason in any other nation than England
for a dispute as to the jurisdiction of the admiralty where the
right existed; but in England that jurisdiction, if not kept
within defined limits, encroached upon trial by jury. In this
country, there is an additional objection. Every assumption
of admiralty cognizance is an encroachment upon the j urisdiction and independence of the States.
I. Although the law and policy of continental Europe,
overlooking as immaterial the distinction between foreign and
domestic owners, gave a lien for building or constructing a
vessel, as well as for repairs,-and overlooked, as equally immaterial, in which court the claim was prosecuted, it is clear that,
according to the principles and .policy both of English and
Americafi law, the builder has not any lien by the general law,
and cannot prosecute in the admiralty for his compensation.
(The General Smith, 4 Wheat., 438; Robinson v. Hosier, 4 B.
and Ald., 344; Wood v. Russell, 5 B. and Ald., 942; 2 Story's
R., 462.)
IV. Building or constructing a ship for a citizen or a foreigner is a purely local matter, merely tending toward and not
in any way directly connected with maritime commerce. It
is not within the reasons on which admiralty jurisdiction is
founded. (St. Jago de Cuba, 9 Wheat., 409; Shrewsbury v.
Two Friends, Bee, 435; Hurry v. John and Alice, 1 Wash. C.
C. R., 296; 2 Woodb. and Min., 110.)
Second Point.-The builders had no lien by any rule of maritime law, nor by the common law, nor by any local law, nor
by any contract.
I The lien recognised in some of the maritime codes of continental Europe is not admissible in this country.
11. They relinquished their builder's lien under the common
law by parting with the possession.
III. There is no statute or other local law in New Jersey
giving a lien to shipwrights.
IV. The laws of New York giving a lien to shipwrights apply only to the case of debts contracted within 'the State of
New lork, and for work done or materials furnished in the
State of New York. (2 R. S., 493, sec. 1.)
V. The contract created no. lien. The special provision

896

SUPREME COURT.
Peopl

8 Ferry Company of Boaton v. .Beera et al.

on that subject contained therein was designed for other
objects.
1. Although a vessel is to be paid for by instalments as the
work progresses, it depends on the terms of the contract
whether any title is acquired by the employer before final delivery. This is especially so as to materials provided but not
applied to the vessel. It was designed to settle this question
in favor of the employer as security for his advances. (Andrews v. Durant, I Kernan, 45; Spanish Co. v. Bell,.148.)
34 Eng.
L. and Eq., 188; Wood v. Bell, 86 Eng. L. and Eq.,
2. The second branch of this clause was designed to save
the common-law lien of the mechanic from the possible implication of a relinquishment in consequence of the transfer of
the ownership to the employer. The common-law lien remained until the mechanic parted with the possession.
Third .Point.-If any lien existed at common law, by local
statute or by express contract, it was not enforceable in the
admiralty.
I. If there was a lien by force of the contract, it was not a
maritime lien. (Leland v. Medora, 2 Wood. and Min., pp.
107 to 113; Hurry v. John and Alice, 1 Wash. C. C., 296; 2
Brown's Civ. and Adm. Law, p. 116, 95; Bogart v. The John
Jay, 17 How., 400; Schuchardt v. Angelique, 19 How., 241.)
I. Where State law, either positive or customary, gives a
lien, there is no ground for enforcing such lien by admiralty
process.
1. When the lien is given by the State law, that same law
provides adequate means for enforcing it. (1 Peters Adm.
Dec., 228; Barque Chusan, 2 Story, 462.)
2. Enforcing the lien of the State law by admiralty process
would lead to inconvenient conflicts of power. (The R. Fulton, 1 Paine's C. C. R.; 623.)
3. Furnishing repairs, &c., to foreign vessels is the only case
in which the maritime law gives a lien. If it was necessary
for the purposes of maritime commerce, the lien would be
given in other cases. That a lien for repairs, &c., in other
cases, is not needed, proves that such liens, when given by other
laws, are not in their nature maritime. And there is a great
incongruity in enforcing by admiralty process a title unknown
to the admiralty law.
4. Although it has been often decided in the circuits that a
lien for repairs, &c., not known to the general maritime law,
and merely arising from State legislation, might be enforced
in the admiralty, that point has never been conclusively determined in this court. (Peyroux v. Howard, 7 Pet., 341; Barque
Chusan, 2 Story's R., 463.)

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

897

.'ople'l Ferij Company of Boston v. Beers et al.

.3fr.Benedict's points were the following:
First. Liens upon vessels for maritime services to the vessel
are beneficial to the general interests of commerce, are founded
in natural equity, and are favored in law, especially in the admiralty. (The Calisto, Davies Rep., 38; The Atlantic, Crabbe
Rep., 442; Emerigon, Mar. Loans, ch. 12, see. 8.)
Second. The building of a vessel and the repairing of a vessel
are in principle the same thing. Repairing is reconstruction
pro tanto. They are both of them making fit for maritime service as a vessel, what was before unfit for that-service. Both
furnish to the owner a serviceable vessel for the purpos? of
commerce. Both are, labor and materials made part of or incorporated in the vessel of another. Both are necessaries, in
the legal sense of that word. Thiey are reasonable and proper
services for the owner to the vehsel, to make her more available
t6 him as an instrument of maritime commerce, always subject
to the perils and lairs of the sea. In the sense of absolute
necessaries, they are neither- of them necessaries. They are
necessaries just as the various articles of comfort and luxury
which make up the stores of a ship or a family are necessaries,
although mere bread and water are all that are necessary to
sustain life.
They are united and classed in the books of maritime law as
like maritime causes of action or services of the same nature,
and declared to be a lien upon the vessel by the maritime law,
from its earliest period, "Building, amending, saving, victualling." (Benedict Ad., sees. 95, 270, 271, 272; Flanders Mar.
Law, secs. 242, 249; Dig. Lib., 42, lit. 6, sec. 11; 1 Boulay
Paty, 121; Consulato, Oh. 82; Ord. de la Marine Art., 17;
Cleirac, 351, 852; Davies Rep., 29; The Nestor, 1 Sumner Rep.,
The State laws give liens-New York for "building, repairing, fitting, furnishing, and equipping," (2 Rev. Stat. N. Y.,
491, sec. 1, subd. 1;) New Jersey; same as New York, (Laws
of New Jersey, 1857, 882;) Pennsylvania, "building and fitting
ships," (New Brig, Gilpin, 540;)
Maine, "building or repairCalisto, Davies, 29;) Louisiana, "construction or

ing," (The
repair," (7 Pet. Rep., 841, Peyronux v. Eoward.)

"Akll matters that concern owners and proprietors of ships,
as such, and shipwrights, are within the admiralty jurisdiction."
(Godolphin, 48; Benedict Adm., sec. 264.)

-

The civil law, the general admiralty law, the British ddmiralty law, the lien laws of the States, the decided cases in our
own courts, all concur. For obvious reasons, cases to enforce
the builder's lien are much more rare than those f6r repairs.
Nothing is so much favored as the price for building a ship--

SUPREM-E COURT.
People's Ferry Company of Boston v. Beers et al.

commerce and the State are interested in it. It is just that the
builders should enjoy the lien which the law gives them. (Emerigon Mar. Lodns, ch. 12, sec. 3.)
Third. Any lien upon a vessel for a maritime service to the
vessel maybe enforced in the admiralty. (The Marion, 1 Story
Rep., 73; Bened. Adm., sec. 270; Flanders Maritime Law,
sec. 242.)
Fourth. The lien in this case is established as follows:
1. The vessel while building in New Jersey was a foreign
vessel, and so there was a lien by the maritime law.
2. She was in the builders' hands, and so by the common
law, which is the law of New Jersey, they had the common-law
or possessory lien.
The builders never entirely gave up the possession; although
they allowed the owner to take her to put in the machinery,
they did riot deliver her absolutely, but continued on board to
finish her.
3. There was the express lien given by the contract, "subject to
a lien," &c., which was for the maritime cause of materials and
labor for building.
4. For the work and labor done in New York there was also
a lien by the State law.
5. As the builders had the possession in this State as builders,
they had also the common-law or possessory lien in New York.
None of these liens ever existed by the mere possession or
by the contract alone, but by the beneficial service to the boat,
and for all these liens the remedy is complete in admiralty,
because the lien has a maritime consideration or cause-the
beneficial service in fitting the boat for the maritime service of
the owner. No matter how the lien is acquired-if it be of a
maritime character-the admiralty has the jurisdiction to enforce it. (The Marion, 1 Story Rep., 68.)
_Ffth. This result of the ancient and modern authorities has
by repeated examination become more and more clearly and
firmly settled every year, for more than half a century. (Benedict Adm., sees. 257, 258, 259, 260.)
The defence in this case presents another of those instances
in which an effort is made to deprive the admiralty of a large
part of its jurisdiction, on the narrow English doctrines of two
hundred years ago.
It cannot be necessary to reargue that general doctrine, after
the investigations and decisions of the Supreme Court within
the last ten or fifteen years.
Sixth. The possession of the vessel was never surrendered by
Crawford & Terry.
1. The bringing her to New York to Small's works, and

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

399

Peqpld8 .Fery Company of Boston v. Beerz et al.

allowing Small's men to take temporary.and divided charge of
her, to put in the engines preparatory to finishing her, was not,
a delivery. They were "to construct and build" Complete in
all her ship-carpenter work, and "deliver complete," which
could not be done till after the engines were in. The taking
charge and watching by the engine men was for a purpose of
.construction, and was subordinate and necessary to the legal
possession of the builders for the purpose of ultimate completion.
2. The attaching her by one of the creditors of Crawford &
Terry as their property, could have no effect upon the property
or possession of the boat. She was the property of Small, in
the possession of the libellants.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
This was a libel filed by Beers & Warner as assignees of
Crawford & Terry, the builders, against a new steam ferry-boat,
called the Jefferson, for a balance due the builders on account
of work done and materials employed in constructing the hull
of the vessel. It is alleged that Crawford & Terry contracted
to build for Wilson Small, of New York, three ferry-boats, at
Keyport, New Jersey, for $12,000 each; that they built one
of them, to wit, the Jefferson; -that they have a lien for the
unpaid balance of the price, and that the vessel is now in the
southern district of New York.
Process having been issued, the People's Ferry Company,
of Boston, intervened as owners, and filed their claim and
answer, denying the facts alleged.
On the trial, the defendants proved and put in evidence a
written agreement for building the hulls of three vessels, between Wilson Small, who was building under a contract for
the Ferry Company, and Crawfbrd, by which the latter was to
construct, build, and deliver at New York city, the hulls 6f
the three vessels. The contract provides that the boats and
materials, as soon as the same may be fitted for use, shall be
the property of Small, subject only to the lien of Crawford
for such sum or sums of money as may be due under the contract.
When the Jefferson was nearly finished, she was taken to
New York and delivered to Small, to receive her engine; and
-afterwards, Crawford & Terry assigned their claim to the libellants, Beers & Warner. The balance due to the builders was
seven thousand dollars, and for this sum the libellants
"
obtained a decree of condemnation.
The only matter in controversy is, whether the District
Courts of the United States have jurisdiction to proceed in

-over

400

SUPREME COURT.
Peopl s Ferry Company of Boaton r. Beera et at.

admiralty to enforce liens for labor and materials furnished in
constructing vessels to be employed in the navigation of waters
to which the admiralty jurisdiction extends.
The lien reserved by the contract is not set up in the libel,
nor can it avail, as it amounted to nothing more than a mortgage on the vessel for a debt. (Bogert v. John, Jay, 17 How.,
400.) Nor could a maritime lien for work and materials be
claimed by the local law, as no statute creating any lien existed in New Jersey when the vessel was built. We have then
the simple case, whether these ship carpenters had a lien for
work and materials, that can be enforced in rem in the admiralty ?
The District Court held: "That it is very clear that the admiralty law creates a lien in favor of a party who does work
or furnishes supplies
to a foreign ship, and that a ship owned
in another 'State is foreign.
"That in determining the question whether such lien is
created also in favor of the builder of a ship, as well as of him
who furnishes work and supplies to her after she is built, the
court is 'not controlled by the restricted jurisdiction of the admiralty courts of England, as exercised by them under the
supervising power of the common-law courts. The rules and
principles of the admiralty law, as administered by the admiralty courts of this country, are more enlarged-more in conformity to the principles of the civil law, as administered by
the maritime nations of continental Europe.
"That, according to that law, the interests of shipping and
ships, not only in their creation, but in their preservation, are
of paramount importance; that the importance of this consideration is the reason why the material man who furnishes supplies for the preservation of the ship is entitled to a lien; and
there is, the like reason for giving a lien to him who has furnished necessaries to bring the ship into being.
"That the English law gives only the common-law possessory lien to a material man or to a builder; but the maritime
law of continental Europe gives a maritime lien to those who
build, supply, or repair, a ship, at least where she is a foreign
ship. This is expressly stated by Boulay Paty, and this principle 0 as acted upon for a long time by the English admiralty,
before it was overthrown by the courts of common law.
"That the right of a material man who has furnished necessaries for the preservation of a foreign ship, has been repeatedly
acknowledged by the admiralty courts of this country; and as
the like reason exists why a carpenter should have a lien on
that which by his work- and materials he creates, as on that
which he preserves, after he has created it; and as by the gen-

DECEM13ER TERM, 1857.

401

Peo pW8 FV Company of Bovon v.Beer etal.

eral maritime la a,
lien exists in the one case, as in the other;
the court must hold that Crawford & Terry had a lien upon
the boat for the work done and materials furnished in building her."
:oreseeing that the cause -would be brought up by appeal
to this court, the circuit judge merely acquiesced in the decision of the District Court, and affirmed its decree.
The question presented involves a contest between the State
and Federal Governments. The latter has no power or jurisdiction beyond what the, Constitution confers; and among
these, it is declared that the judicial power shall extend "to
all cases of admiralty, and maritime jurisdiction; 'and by the
judiciary act of. 1789, this jurisdiction is conferred on the
District Courts of the United States. The extent of -power.
withdrawn from the States, and vested in the General Government, depends oii a, proper cbnstruction of the constitutional
provision above cited. Its terms are indefinite, and its true
limits can only be ascertained by reference to what cases were
cognizable in the maritime courts when the Constitution was
formed-for what was meant by it then, it must mean now;
what was reserved to the States, to be regulated by their own
institutions, cannot be rightfully infringed by the General
Government, either through its6 legislative or judiciary department. The contest here is not so much between rival tribunals, as between distinct sovereignties, claiming to exercise
p'ower over contracts, -property, and personal franchises.
How largely these may be involved in the contest is most
apparent when we take into. consideration that the admiralty.
courts now exercise jurisdiction over rivers and inland waters,
wherever navigation is or may be carried on, and extends to
almost-every description bf vessel which may be employed in
ttansporting our products.to market. Over all these the admiralty jurisdiction is now exercised in proper cases; and the
question is, whether the contract before us is a proper case, and
within the grant of Federal jurisdiction. The contract is simply for building the hull 'of a,ship, aiid deliveiing it on the,
water. The vessel was constructed and delivered according to
the contract, and was in the possession of the party for whom
it was built when the libel was filed...
The admiralty jurisdiction, in cases of contract, depends
primarily upon the nature of the contract,. and is limited 'to
contracts, claims, and services, purely maritime, and touching
rights and. duties appertaining..to commerce and navigation.
(I Conckling M.'L., 19.)
d
i
e
In' considering. the foregong description, itmust be borne
in mind that liens on vesse encumber commerc6, and are disVOL. XX.

.26

SUPREME COURT.
McCormick v. Talcoti et al.

couraged; so that where the owner is present, no lien is acquired
by the material man; nor is any, where the vessel is supplied
or repaired in the home port. The lien attaches to foreign
ships and vessels only in favor of the carpenter who repairs in
a case of necessity and in the absence of the owner. It would
be a strange doctrine to hold the ship bound in a case where
the owner made the contract in writing, charging himself to
pay by instalments for building the vessel at a time when she
was neither registered nor licensed as a sea-going ship. So
far from the contract being purely maritime, and touching
rights and duties appertaining to navigation, (on the ocean or
elsewhere,) it was a contract made on land, to be performed
on land. .The wages of the shipwrights had no reference to a
voyage to be performed; they had no interest or concern whatever in the vessel after she was delivered to the party for whom
she was built; they were bound to rely on their contract. It
was thus held by the first Judge Hopkinson, in 1781, who then
declared, as respects ship builders, that "the practice of former
times doth not justify the admiralty's taking cognizance of
their suits." (Chilton v. The Brig Hannah, Bee's Admiralty
R., app., 419.) And we feel warranted in saying that at no
time since this has been an independent nation, has such a
practice been allowed. (Turnbull v. Enterprise, Bee's Adm.
R., 345.)
It is proper, however, to notice the fact that District Courts
have recognised the existence of admiralty jurisdiction in rem
against a vessel to enforce a carpenter's bill for work and materials furnished in constructing it, in cases where a lien had
been created by the local law of the State where the vessel
was built; such as Read v. The Hull of a New Brig, 1 Story's
1.,
244; and Davis & Lehman v. A New Brig, Gilpin's R.,
473; ib., 536; Ludington &King v. The Nucleus, 2 Law Jour.,
563. Thus far, however, in our judicial history, no case of
the kind has been sanctioned by this court. For the reasons above stated, it is ordered that the decree below be reversed, and the libel dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
CYRUS H. MCCORMICK, APPELLANT, V. WAITE TALCOTT, RALPH

EMMERSON, JESSE BLINN, AND SYLVESTER TALCOTT, SURVIVORS
OF JOHN H. MANNY.
The reaping machines made by Manny do not infringe McCormick's patent, either
as to the divider, the manner in which the reel is sbpported, or the combination
of the reel with a seat for the raker.
McCormick not being the original inventor of the machine called a divider, but
the patentee of only an improvement for a combination of mechanical devices,
could not hold as an infringer one who used only a part of the combination.

