SUPREME COURT.
,Secombe et al. v. Steele.

the two last shall be united for the more easy and certain access to the Mississippi.
The act of the Legislature of Mississippi, therefore, is strictly
within the legitimate and even essential powers of the State,
is in violation of neither the Constitution nor laws of the
United States, and presents no conjuncture or aspect by which
this court would be warranted to supervise or control the decree of the High Court of Errors and Appeals of Mississippi.
We are therefore of the opinion that the decree of that court
be affirmed.
DAviD

A.

SECoMBE ET AL. V. FRANKLIN STEELE.

When a transcript of a record of another court was attached to the answer as an
exhibit, and portions of it particularly referred to, and the record of the entire
case pleaded, a decree, certified by the clerk, which had been executed by the
parties, must be considered as part of the record, although it had not the signature of the judge. The signature of the judge is not the only evidence by which
a decree can be authenticated.

Property was agreed to be sold, and the payment was to be made by a deposit of
the price in one of two banks, in Boston, and a certificate delivered to the vendor. The vendee made the deposit in another bank, in Boston, and tendered
the certificate to the vendor, within the time limited, and the vendor having refused to receive it, he tendered the purchase-money and interest, and that being
refused, he filed his bill for -a specific performance, and paid the money info
court. Held, under the circumstances, to be sufficient.
Creditors of the vendor, who recovered judgments and sold the property, pending
a suit for a specific performance, in which the purchase-money had been paid
into court, are not necessary parties to the suit, nor are the purchasers at the
sheriff's sple under such judgments.

Under a statute of Minnesota, the court of chancery might divest the title of the
defendant in the land, without requiring him to make a conveyance.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Supreme
Court of the Territory of Minnesota.
By stipulation of counsel, Secombe was made the representative of numerous other parties engaged in a common cause.
The chronological history of the case was this.
In the latter part of 1851, suits were pending between Steele
and Arnold W. Taylor, with regard to their respective interests in a parcel of land near St. Anthony's Falls, of which they
were tenants in common.
On the 17th of January, 1852, Taylor executed his bond of
conveyance of the property to Steele, for the consideration of
twenty-five thousand dollars, one thousand of which was to be
paid in cash, and the remaining twenty-four to be deposited to
the credit of Taylor, within sixty days, in the Merchants' or
Suffolk Bank, in Boston.
On the 19th of January, 1852, this bond of conveyance was

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

95

,Secome el al. v. ,Sflee.

recorded in the proper office, under the following provisions
of the Minnesota Revised Statutes, chap. 47, p. 215:
"SEc. 1. All bonds, contracts, or agreements, concerning
any interest in lands in this Territory, made in writing under
seal, attested by one or more witnesses, and acknowledged
before some person authorized by lav to take acknowledgments
of deeds, may be recorded' in the office of the register of deeds
of the county where the land lies.".
"1SEc. 3. Each and every bond, contract, or agreement, made
and recorded according to the provisions of the first section of
this chapter, shall be notice to, and take precedence of, any'
subsequent purchaser or purchasers, and shall operate as a lien
upon the lands therein described, according to its import and
meaning."
One of the questions which arose in the case was with reference to the import and meaning of the bond.
It was alleged by Steele that, on the 11tth of March, 4852,
he tendered to the Suffolk Bank, and also to the Merchants'
Bank, in Boston, the sum of twenty-four thousand dollars, and
requested a certifieate of deposit therefor; but that each of the
banks refused to receiye the money. In consequence of' such
refusal, he deposited the money in the Bank of Commerce, at
Boston, and received a certificate of deposit from that bank.
On the 5th of May, 1852, he tendered this certificate to Taylor, who refused to receive it or to execute a deed of conveyance.
On the 25th of May, 1852, Steele filed a bill in equity, (that
form of proceeding not having been then abolished,) praying
for a specific performance of his contract with Taylor, and paid
into court the sum of $24,240. He also obtained an injunction
prohibiting Taylor from selling or encumbering the property,
&c. Taylor answered the bill, and moved to dissolve the injunction, which motion was overruled, and the case stood for
hearing upon bill and answer in July, 1852.
During the winter of 1852-'8, whilst the cause was pending
as above described, Secombe and other creditors of Taylor
obtained judgments against him, sued out executions which
were levied upon the property included in his bond to Steele,
and at the sheriff's sale the plaintiffs in error became purchasers, receiving deeds for their respective purchases.
In March, 1858, Secombe and the other purchasers petitioned to be admitted as parties to defend the suit against Taylor, which petition was granted, 'and a certain time given for
the filing of their answer,.
In April, 1853, Steele moved to vacate this order and dismiss the petitions.

96

SUPREME COURT.
Secombe et al. v. Steele.

Affidavits were filed on both sides, and on the 4th of 'May,
1853, the order was vacated, and the petitions dismissed.
From this order, Secombe took an appeal to the Supreme
Court of the Territory.
On the same 4th of May, a decree was made by the court,
whereby Taylor was ordered to execute conveyances to Steele,
and the sum of $24,240, which had been deposited in court,
was ordered to be paid to Taylor. This decree was founded
on the consent of Steele and Taylor, filed in court.
Pending the above appeal, Steele instituted the suit now
under the consideration of this court against Secombe and fifty-three other persons, who claimed under the sheriff's sales.
It was an action at law, brought under a local statute, by way
of petition. The plaintiff was in possession, and brought the
suit against the persons who claimed an-estate or interest in the
property. The petition was constructed like a bill in chancery,
and, after reciting the facts in the case, concluded thus: "wherefore the plaintiff demands judgment, determining the title to
the said real estate so conveyed to him by the said Arnold W.
Taylor to be in the plaintifi and requiring the defendants, respectively, to release their said adverse claims to estates or interests tlerein to the plaintiff," &c.
The defendants answered; the plaintiff demurred; the court
sustained the demurrer, and gave the defendants leave to file
an amended answer.
The amended answer introduced the record of the former
suit; when the plaintiff moved-to strike out all that part of the
answer, and demurred to the residue. The court sustained
the motion and demurrer, and gave judgment for the plaintiff,
which on appeal was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the
Territory.
A writ of error brought the ca'e up to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Carlisle and Mr. Badger for the plaintiffs in error, and by Mr. Cushing and Mr. Gillet for the defendants.
The points made by the counsel for the plaintiffs in error
were the following:
I.That Taylor's estate in the lands was the subject of -execution; and that the same passed to the plaintiffs in error, in
respective -parcels, subject to whatever equity Steele might
establish in the then pending suit in equity. It was the legal
estate w-hich was seized and sold. But even if it were otherwise, it was still the subject- of execution. (ReVised Statutes,

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.
Secombe et al. v. Steele.

. 368, sec. 91-p. 846, see. 13 9 -p. 861, secs. 76, 77; 2 Story's
q. Jur., sees. 1049-50-'51.)
1-. That the title thus acquired was "by operation of law,"
or, in other words, by involuntary assignment; and therefore
not even a decree thereafter passed against Taylor would have
affected such title; his assigns, by operation of law, not being
parties to the same. (Story Eq. PI., see. 842 and notes-sec.
851 and note; Sedgwick v. Cleaveland, 7 Paige, 290;. Boring
v. Lemmon, 5 H. and J., 225; Bennet v. Williams, 5 Ohio, 462;
Deas v. Thorn, 8 J. R., 543; Storm v. Davenport, 1 Sand . C.
R., 185.)
III. That, by virtue of the title so acquired, the plaintiffs in
error were subrogated to Taylor's rights in respect of the purchase-money, in the event of Steele's equity upon the lands
being established. Therefore, they had an "adverse claim,
estate, or interest," in the lands, which was to be "determined"
in this suit. For the lands stood as security for the purchasemoney, and they holding the legal titles could not be decreed
to convey, or otherwise be divested of the same, without their
consent, except on payment of the purchase-money. (Mover
v. Hinman, 17 Barb. S. C. Rep., 137, and cases cited by the
court in that case; Tomlinson v. Blackburn et al., 2 Iredell's
Eq. Rep., p. 509, and cases then cited by the court.)
IV. in fact there was no decree even against Taylor. What
is erroneously printed as part of the record, under title of
"Copy of consent for decree," and "Copy of decree," never
were part of the record, nor in this cause for any purpose. But
if such decree, by consent, had been passed, it would have
been, in effect, the mere act of the parties. It is for this reason that no rehearing or appeal lies in such case. *(Webb v.
Webb, 8 Swan, 868; Lansing v. Alb. Ins. Co., Hopk., 102;
Bradish v. Gee, Amb., 229; WIarrison v. Ramsey, 2 Yes., 288;
Bolt's Supp., 418.)
Disregardibg these principles, the court below, so proceeded
as to debar these plaintiffs in error from setting up any "adverse
claim, estate, or title," in these lands, whether by reason of defect in Steele's equity, or by way of holding the legal titles as
security for the purchase-money; and'this in a suit brought
against them "to determine, such adverse claim, estate, or
title," and while their appeal was pending from the decree
dismissing their petitions. in the original suit between Taylor
and Steele.
The special errors which have led to this result, and which
are now assigned, are as follows:
1st. The Supreme Court of Minnesota efred, in that it did
not reverse the order of the District Court in this suit, grantVOL. XX.
- 7

98

SUPREME COURT.
Secombe et al. v. Steele.

ing the motion of the plaintiff, Steele, to strike out portions
of the answer of Secombe, (by stipulation answering for all
the defendants.)
a. The first, fourth, fifth, and eighth portions of the said
answer, stricken out bv the said order, were directly responsive
to allegations contained in the plaintiff's complaint, tendering
material issues necessary to be decided in order to the "determining the adverse claim, estate, or interest," of the defendants;
for which purpose, only the action was authorized by statute,
(ubi supra,) and even if not absolutely material, they were issues
tendered by the plaintiff, and it was not for him to object that
the defendants occupied the ground which he had opencd.
b. The second portion of the said answer, so stricken out,
tendered to the plaintiff a material issue. The action being
"for the purpose of determining such adverse claim, estate, or
interest," it is difficult to perceive how the defendants could be
denied the right to show that the land which they had purchased was clear of the pretended equity of Steele. This portion of the answer was equivalent to a plea of non-performance
of the conditions of the bond, and whether such plea was true
or false, in fact, was the very matter to be tried. But the court
refused to allow any such issue to be made.
c. The sixth and seventh portions, so stricken out, alleged
fraud and collusion between Steele and Taylor, to defraud aud
defeat the creditors of Taylor, and purchasers at the sheriff's
sale; and were therefore proper to be inquired into, in law and
fact, as at once impeaching the plaintiff's alleged right, and
fortifying the defendants' titles.
2d. The said court erred, in that they did not reverse the
order and judgment of the District Court sustaining the demurrer to the residue of the defendants' answer.
aZ.The first special cause of demurrer assigned, is to the
effect that the bond to convey, on conditions pertormed, vested
such a title in Steele as absolutely precluded these phiinitif, in
error from setting up any "adverse claim, estate, or title." in
the land, whether as free of the pretended equity of Steele, or
(conceding it) as security for the payment of the purchasemoney. This pretension is based upon the supposed effect of
the recording of the bond. But it is evident that the record
has no other effect than that of consti'uctive notice of the contents of the bond.
b. The second cause assigned is, that the answer assumes
that the title of Steele is founded upon the proceedings in
equity; whereas, the demurrer asserts that it is wholly'independent of that suit.

This is shown to be erroneous, if the

principles hereinbefore asserted are correct. Although

tccle's

-DEOEMBER TERM, 1857.

99

Secombe et al. v. Steele.

alleged equity was founded on the bond, his right to the lands
upon which the plaintiffs in error held this "adverse claim, estate, or interest," was not determined, unless it was determined
in that suit. And if they had such, "adverse claim, estate, or
interest," it is evident that there was never any adjudication
thereon, since they were dismissed from that suit, and their
appeal from that decree was still pending.
e. The third cause assigned is, that whereas the answer sets
up that there was no decree as against Taylor, yet it appears
from the "paper-book," exhibited with the answer, that there
was such a decree. But it will be observed that it is only
certain specified papers which are referred to in the answer,
and reference is made to the paper-book for true copies of these
only. Besides, it has already been shown that this was only
the form of a decred, not signed or enrolled; and that even if
it had been signed or enrolled, it was by consent, and is only
the act of the parties; and that it could not affect the "adver s e
claim, estate, or interest," of the plaintif in error, which was
the subject-matter of this suit.
The counsel for the defendant in error maintained the following propositions:
1. The agreement between Steele and Taylor for the sale
of the land was a bona fide and fair transaction, and is unimpeached, and constituted a valid lien upon said fLnd, and
Steele's interest therein was unaffected by the purchase of Secombe and others.
2. That Steele performed the agreement on his part, and
the title in him became complete upon the execution of the
deeds to him by Taylor.
3. That Steele paid Taylor the full face of the agreement ii
not denied, but is admitted by the pleadings and proved by
the record attached to the defendants' answer, and especially
by their petitions to share in the money paid into court by
Steele for Taylor.
4. That the deeds from Taylor to Steele conform to the
terms of the a-reement and the requirement of the decree.
5. Under the decree, the title was perfect without the execution of the deeds.
6. The pleadings in the eqity case, and also in this suit,
show facts upon which a court of equity would compel a perforiance by Taylor of his agreement to convey to Steele.
7. That at the time of the sheriff's sales, under which the
defendants claim, Taylor had no estates in the land which he
could have transferred, the land belonging to Steele, and the
purchase-money to Taylor, the claim of the latter upon the

100

SUPREME COU7RT.
Secombe et al. v. Steele.

land being that of security for the payment of the purchasemoney.
8. The answers of the defendants present no material issuable facts.
9. That there is nothing before this court except the questions arising upon the answers after being amended by the
order of the court, the final judgment being upon the remaining portions of' the answer.
10. That the decree in the suit between Steele and Taylor
cannot be impeached collaterally, but only by direct proceedings.
11. '1bat the defendants had no right to intervene in the
equity suit.

12. iNo appeal will lie from the motion to strike out portions
of the defendants' answers.
13. Every mateiial fact to show the right of Steele to the
land is admitted in this case, and no fact set up in the answers
shows any right in the defendants.
14. From the admitted facts in this case, if Taylor had conveyed to the defendants, instead of to Steele, the latter, on the
performance of the agreemeixt now shown by him, could have
compelled them to convey to him.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
This cause comes before this court upon a writ of error to
the Supreme 0ourt of the Territory of Minnesota.
The defendant in this court (Steele) instituted a suit in the
District Court of Ramsey county, Minnesota Territory, against
fifty-four defendants, to determine the validity of their "claim,"
"estate," or "interest," in certain real property at St. Anthony's Falls, in that county, of which he was possessed, and
in which he claimed to have an estate in fee simple, under certain conveyances, which are appended to his complaint. This
complaint shows that, in 1849, the plaintiff and Arnold W.
Taylor were tenants in common of a parcel of land which includes the property in dispute, and so occupied it until 1852. A
portion was laid off into town lots, some of which were sold;
expensive mills and other improvements were projected and
partially completed on it; and controversies arose, and suits
were pending between them, when the parties, in January,
1852, came to an agreement of sale. By this agreement, Taylor contracted to sell to the plaintiff his interest in the real
property unsold, and the money and securities taken for the
lots sold, for the sum of twenty-five thousand dollars, and upon
the condition that the plaintiff should acquit him from the
payment of a certain demand, and assume his liabilities on

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

101

Secombe et al. v. Stede.

certain contracts for labor and building materials. Of this sum,
one thousand dollays were to be paid presently, and the remainder was to be paid. in sixty days from the date, at the Merchants' or Suffolk Bank, at Boston, and a certificate of deposit
furnished to Taylor at St. Anthony's Falls; and in case of a
default, the deposit of one thousand dollars was to be a forfeit.
But if the payment was made in the manner stipulated, conveyances were to be executed by Taylor; and meanwhile he
was to remain in the possession of the mill. The conveyances
referred to in these articles were not executed until M'Nay, 1853,
and purport to have been made in obedience to a decree of the
District Court of Ramsey county, in a suit commenced by
'Steele against Taylor.
The complaint of Steele against the fifty-four defendants is,
that they claimed an "estate," "interest," or "right,' in that
property, have from time to time declared that they were
owners thereof, and have executed conveyances for a portion,
and offer to sell or dispose of other parts, contrary to the right
of the plaintiff.
The object of the suit is, to relieve the title of the plaintiff
from the mischief of these adverse claims; to quiet his possession by means of a decretal order requiring the defendants to
release them, or, in case of their failure to do so, that the judgment of the court may stand and be recorded in its stcad. This
proceeding is authorized by the revised statutes of Minnesota,
ch. 74, see. 1.
The twelve persons who are plaintiffs in this court, and were
defendants in the District Court, appeared there, and severally
claimed title to parcels of land included in the conveyances of
Taylor to the plaintiff. Their claims respectively rest upon
the facts, that between -November,1852, and April, 1853, judgments were rendered against Taylor in the District Court,
upon which executions issued, and levies and sales were made
of those parcels before MNay, 1853, in the regular course of
judicial proceeding. At these sales the defendants were either
purchasers or derive title from such persons.
The defendants aver that their, title is paramount to that of
the plaintiff; for that the plaintiff is not entitled to any benefit
from the articles of agreement executed by Taylor, in January,
1852, and then recorded, because he failed to comply with
the obligation to pay twenty-four thousand dollars as agreed
to by him.
And to avoid the recitals in the deeds, to the effect that they
were executed under a decretal order of the court, they say
that in May, 1852, the plaintiff filed a bill in the District Court,
to compel Taylor to a specific performance of the contract of

102

SUPREME COURT.
Secambe el al. v. Steele.

January preceding. That upon the bill the judge made an
order for the payment of the twenty-four thousand dollars into
court by Steele; and, upon the fulfilment of this fiat, that an
injunction should issue to restrain Taylor from selling, conveying, or encumbering the property, or in anywise intermeddling with it. That an injunction and subpcena issued, and
that Taylor appeared, answered, and unsuccessfully moved to
dissolve the injunction, in July, 1852. That no other act was
done by the plaintiff until April, 1853, when the rights of the
defendants had attached by those purchases from the sherif.
That in March, 1853, the defendants applied to the District
Court to be made defendants in the cause, which application
was finally unsuccessful, and that the plaintiff and Taylor then
fraudulently closed their controversy by a decree rendered by
consent, under which the conveyances were made, and that
their object was to defeat the claims of these defendants.
That, by this arrangement, the terms of the contract of January, 1852, were not adhered to, and that the twenty-four
thousand dollars were not paid as stated in the deed.
It was a question in the District Court, as well as in this
court, whether the decree and the agreement leading to it, that
form a part of the record here, properly belong to the case.
The defendants in the District Court maintained that it
was pleaded by them. They are found in an exhibit to the
answers-an exhibit which purports to be a transcript from a
record in the Supreme Court of Minnesota, as furnished on an
appeal from the District Court of Minnesota by the defendants,
upon the decree disallowing their claim to be made defendants.
Portions of this transcript are referred to in the answers, as
forming material papers in the chancery suit, and the whole
suit is referred to in the answers to support its allegations;
and it is specifically set up and pleaded. We think, therefore,
that the record of that suit, as it appears in the exhibit, must
be taken as authentic, in deciding upon the sufficiency of the
answer as a bar to the plaintiff's complaint. The decree purports to have been made by the court; it is formal, and disposes of the cause, and is only defective in not having the
signature of the judge. But it comes from the legal custody,
has been accepted by the parties, and acted on by them; and
was certified to the Supreme Court of the Territory, as a paper
in the cause. We do not regard the signature of the judge as
indispensable to its authenticity. The statute that directs
the signature must be considered as directory; and other evidence to establish its verity as a record of the court may be
considered.
In the District Court, the plaintiff moved to strike out por-

.DECEMJER TERM, 1857.

103

Becombe et al. V. Steele.

tions of the answer, for insufficiency and on other grounds, and
demurred to the residue. His motion and demurrer were sustained, and a final decree rendered for the plaintiff. This de-cree was affirmed on appeal to the Supreme Court, and the
defendants in that court prosecute ,their writ of error to this
court. The statutes of Minnesota prescribe: "That the court
must in every stage of an action disregard any error or defect
in the pleadings and proceedings which does not affect the
substantial rights of the adverse party, and no judgment can
be reversed or affected by reason of such error or defect." The
question to an appellate court in the present case is, do the
answers of the defendants, as pleaded by them, disclose a valid
claim to the property in dispute, so as to bar the petition of the
plaintiff for relief? No objection is taken to the validity of
the contract of January, 1852, between the parties, Steele and
Taylor. . The, record of that contract is notice to subsequent
purchasers; and Steele, by the statutes of the Territory, was
entitled to have "precedence of" them, and "a lien upon the
laud, according to the import and me .ning of the- contract."
(Rev. Stat., ch. 47, sec. 3.)
It is not denied that the plaintiff paid one thousand dollars
at the execution of the contract, nor that the twenty-four thousand dollars were paid within sixty days into a bank at Boston-a bank of solvency and credit-nor that a certificate of
deposit within a reasonable time afterward was oBffered to
Taylor, at St. Anthony's Falls; nor that, upon his refusal to
take the latter, the money and interest were immediately tendered to him; and, upon a farther refusal, that relief was sought
from a court of chancery, whose order for the payment of the
money into court was promptly complied with. The precise
grounds of complaint are, that neither the Merchants' nor
su olk Bank was made the depository of the money; and a
certificate from one of them has never been tendered to Taylor,;
and that he has the right to iely upon the letter of his contract.
No specification has been made of any injury or inconvenience
suffered by him, as a consequence of the deposit having been
made in the Bank of Commerce, rather than the banks mentioned in the agreement. And the plaintiff avers, that the
only reason for the change was, the refusal of those banks to
give a certificate of the kind mentioned.
At law, if there is an express agreement for the payment of
the purchase-money, and the delivery of the conveyance of the
land by a particular day, and at a particular place, the parties
will be bound by it, and time will be of the essence of the contract.- But, in equity, the estate bargained and agreed to be
sold becomes the property of the purchaser as soon as the

104-

SUPRIEME COURT.
Secombe et al. v. Steele.

ngreement is concluded. It will descend to his heirs at his
death, or may be devised by him; while the purchase-money
vests in the vendor, and forms a part of his personal estate.
In the ordinary case of the purchase of an estate, the assignment of a particular day or a specified place for the perfection
of the title is considered as merely formal, the general object
of the contract being the sale of an estate for a given sum, and
the stipulation signifying that the purchase shall be completed
' promptly, and in a reasonable manner, regard being had to the
circumstances of the case, and the nature of the title and property. Time may be made of the essence of the contract by
express stipulation, or it may become essential by considerations arising from the nature of the property, or the character
of the interest bargained. And the principle of the court of
equity does not depend upon considerations collateral to the
contract merely, nor on the conduct of the parties subsequently,
showing that time was not of the essence of the contract in the
particular case.
But it must affirmatively appear that the parties regarded
time or place as an essential element in their agreement, or a
court of equity will not so regard it. (Hiperall v. Knight, 1
Y. and C., 416.) In Parkin v. Thorald, (16 Beav., 59,) the
master of the rolls said: "A contract is undoubtedly construed
alike both in equity and at law; nay, more-a court of law is
the proper tribunal for determining the construction of it.
But courts of equity make a distinction in all cases between
that which is matter of substance and that which is matter of
form; and if it find that, by insisting on form, the substance
will be defeated, it holds it to be inequitable to allow a person
to insist on such form, and thereby defeat the substance. For
instance, A has contracted to sell an estate to B, and to complete the title by the 25th October; but no stipulation is
introduced, that either party considers time of the essence of
the contract. A completes the title by the 26th; at law, the
contract is at an end, and B may bring an action for the nonperformance of the contract, and obtain damages for the breach ;
but equity holds, that unless B can show that the delay of
twenty-four hours really produced some injury to him, he is
not to be permitted to bring this action or to avoid the perfbrmance of the contract; not, certainly, on the ground that
the 25th October was not a part of the contract, but on the
ground that it is unjust that B should escape the performance
of a contract which has been substantially performed by A, by
reason of some omission in a formal but immaterial portion
of it." Upon a view of the chancery record, our conclusions
are, that the plaintiff, in good faith, attempted a literal per-

-DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

105

Secombe et al. v. Steele.

formance of his contract with Taylor; that the deposit of the
money due, iii a bank of solvency and credit, other than those
named in the contract, did not inflict an injury upon Taylor,
and the offer of its certificate of deposit, primafacie, was a substantial performance of its requirements. That his subsequent
offer of the money and the interest that had accrued, and, on
the refusal of Taylor to receive it, his prompt application to
chancery, and payment of the money into court, relieve the
plaintiff from every imputation of laches or delay. The District Court expressed an opinion corresponding to this, in July,
1852, in denying the motion to dissolve the injunction, and this
was a virtual decision of the cause in that court.
These transactions occurred before the judgments against
Taylor, under which the land was afterwards sold, were rendered by the District Court. The District Court had the parties before it, and held the defendant (Taylor) under restraint,
by injunction, and the purchase-money in its custody. It had
been empowered by a statute of the Territory "to pass the title
to real estate by a decree, without any other act to be done on the
part of the defendant, when, in its judgment, it was the proper
mode to carry its decree into effect." (hev. Stat., Minn., p. 466,
sec. 83.) But, before the transfer to the plaintiff had been made,
judgments were obtained and docketed against Taylor, which
were "a lien upon all the real property of the debtor in the
county owned by him at the date of the judgment, or afterwards acquired." The influence of these judgments, and of
the levy of the executions upon the land described in the ao-reement of January, 1852, and the sale under those executions,
remains to be considered. The twelfth of the "Ordinances in.
Chancery" of Lord Bacon is, that no decree bindeth any that
cometh in bona fide by conveyance from the defendant before
bill exhibited, and is made no party, neither by bill nor the
order; but where he comes in pendente lite, and while the suit
is in full prosecution, and without any color of allowance or
privity of the court, there regularly the decree bindeth; but
if there were any intermission of the suit, or the court made
acquainted with, the court is to give order upon the special
matter according to justice. The rule has been applied with
steadiness to all cases of transfer during the progress of a cause,
notwithstanding the hardship of individual cases, from considerations of public policy and convenience. Suits would be
interminable, if the rights of the parties could be disturbed by'
mesne conveyances, and a necessity imposed for the introduc'2
tion of other parties upon the record. The apparent exception
to the rule arises when an event occurs which deprives the
party on the record not only of his interest in the subject of

SUPREME COURT.
Secombe et al. v. Steele.

the suit, but also of his faculty to comply effectively with the
decree of the court. In such a case, additional parties are
necessary to enable the court to make an operative decree. The
Court of Chancery ordinarily acts in personam; and, in cases
like the present, perfects the title of the purchaser by requiring
the vendor to execute a title conformably to the agreement.
But, in cases of bankruptcy and insolvency, the bankrupt or
insolvent is stripped of his rights of property and of his capacity
to defend suits in which he is a party. In such cases the assignees ar. commonly made parties, (Dan'l Pr., 328:) but there
are opposing authorities-Cleveland v. Boerun, (23 Barb., 201.)
And it has been decided that a purchaser under an execution
issued on a judgment rendered pendente lite,
need not be made
a party in such a case. (Scott v. Coleman, 5 Mon., 73.)
The statute we have cited from the code of Minnesota enlarges the powers of the Court of Chancery of that Territory,
an enables it to act in ren. It may pass the title without aly
act of the defendant. The bill, subpona, and injunction, placed
the property wholly under the control of the Court of Chancery, and new parties were not requisite to enable the court to
vest the title in the equitable claimant.
This principle is not peculiar to courts of chancery; but the
maxim that "
ee'dcte lite
niltl inno'elur," is applied in real and
mixed actions by the common law. (2 Dana, 25; 9 Cowen,

233.)
V\Xas there a valid exercise of the jurisdiction of the court,
and did the decree pass the title to the purchaser? Had the
plaintiff any duty to perform, in regard to the application of
the purchase-money, in the registry of'the court? Some authorities affirin that a purchaser of the legal title at a judicial sale
immediately succeeds to the rights of the debtor, and that the
equitable claimant under an executory contract becomes responsible to him for the purchase-money remaining unpaid. (Mayer
v. Iimnan, 17 Barb., 137; 16 Serg. and R., 18.) Other authorities recognise the right of the purchaser to the benefit of the
contract f1ror the time that the equitable claimant has notice
of the sale and conveyance by the sierifl
(Mlayer v. Hinman,
3 Kiernon, 180: 2 Ired. Eq., 507; 4 MAadd. R., 506, note;) while
other well-considered cases deny that the purchaser at the
sheriff's .alc obtains a title whicl can be interposed to impede
the pr~ogress of the legal title to the purchaser by articles, or
oporates as a transfer of his d~cbt for the unpaid purchase-money
from his vendor to the claimant under the judgment. (Chinn
Buttsl'.
, 3 Dana Ky. ".,547; Lodg e . Lysely, 4 Simon, 70;
Whitworth v. Gauvain, 3 Hare, 416; Scott v. Coleman, 5 Mon.,
7-3.) The case reported in 3d Dana was a contest between two

DEOEMBER TERM, 1857.
Seeombe et al.v.

107

teele.

purchasers-one under an executory contract, and the other
under a judgment against the vendor while a part of the purchase-money remained unpaid. The holder of the sheriff's
title recovered in an ejectment; and the questions decided arose
on a bill for relief filed by th6 defendant upon his elder equitable title. The court say, that "the purchase of the entire
legal title, with notice of an outstanding equity, arising from a
previous sale of the land by the same vendor to a stranger, does
not per se transfer to the purchaser any right, legal or equitable,
to any portion of the unpaid consideration remaining due to
the vendor from the first buyer; and if there should be any
extraneous ground for an equitable substitution, it should be
asserted and shown by the purchaser before the stranger holding the prior equity had made fall payment to the vendor. If
there be such an equity, it is against the vendor, and not against
the debtor; and, whether it exist or'will ever be asserted, the
debtor cannot be pregumed to know."
Without attempting to reconcile these cases, or to discover
whether that is possible, it is evident that the present case does
not fall within the limits of either of them. The right of the
plaintiff to precedence over the judgment creditor, or the purchaser under *his execution, does not depend upon the exercise
of the extraordinary jurisdiction of the Court of Chancery, and
is not confined by the rules under which that court administers
that jurisdiction. His priority is a legal right, reposing upon
the legislative authority. Before the judgment creditor had
established his debt, the plaintiff had acquired possession of
the property, and had paid his money into court. His purchase-money was thus paid. If the purchasers from the sheriff
acquired any title to that money by their purchase of the land,
it is evident that it should have been asserted by a direct appeal
to the court, and not by an adversary proceeding at law for the
land. If a person pendente lite takes an assignment of the interest of one of the parties to the suit, he may, if he pleases, make
himself a party by bill, but he cannot by petition pray to be
admitted as a party defendant; all that the court will do is to
make an order that the assignor shall not. take the property out
of court without notice. (Dan'1 Ch. Pr., 829; Wiswall v. Simpson, 14 How. S. C. R., 52.)
We do not consider that the act of Taylor in consenting to a
decree, or the act of the plaintiff in accepting one, is evidence
of any fraud, or of a conspiracy against the defendants in this
suit: The decree was a consequence of the opinion of the
court upon the cause as presented by the pleading, on the motion to dissolve the injunction; and so far as the equities of
the parties are to be considered, the decree embodies them.

10&

SUPREME COMIYW.
The Commercial Bank of Manchester v. Buckner.

There is no other specification of fraud, and the general
charges of fraud, unaccompanied by a statement of the facts
constituting the fraud, have no effect or influence.
We are of opinion that there is no error in the record, and
the judgment of the Supreme Court of Minnesota Territory is
affirmed.
THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF MANCHESTER, COMPLAINANT
APPELLANT, v. HENRY S. BUCKNER.

AND

The Circuit Court of the United States has no power to entertain an original bill
brought by a creditor, who has come in and proved his debt against the bankrupt, for the purpose of annulling or vacating a discharge and certificate in
bankruptcy, obtained in the District Court upon imputations of fraud, done in
contemplation of bankruptcy by the bankrupt; or to give relief, either at law or
in equity, in a suit brought by a creditor who had proved his debt under the
commission, who had assented to the bankrupt's discharge and certificate, and
who had taken a dividend out of the bankrupt's estate.
The District Court, which passed the decree in bankruptcy, can take cognizance
of such a case.
Whether or not such a bill could be filed by a creditor who had not come in and
proved his debt, and who was not a party to the decree in bankruptcy, is a question which the court does not now decide.
Nor has the Circuit Court the power, under its general jurisdiction over frauds, to
give relief either at law or in equity, in a suit brought by a creditor who had
proved his debt under the commission, had assented to the bankrupt's discharge
and certificate, and had taken a dividend out of the bankrupt's estate.
A demurrer only admits facts which are well pleaded.

THIs was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the eastern district of Louisiana.
It was a bill filed -by the bank upon the equity side of the
Circuit Court, against Buckner, under the circumstances fully
detailed in the opinion of the court.

It was argued by Mr. Day for the appellant, and by Mr. Bejamin and Y!r. Bayard for the appellee.
Mr. Day filed an elaborate printed argument, consisting of
more than one hundred pages. Of the several points of the
case included in this argument, it is necessary to omit the discussion of the following propositions, viz:

1. Are the charges of fraud sufficient to invalidate the discharge in bankruptcy?
2. The equity side of the court has jurisdiction over the case,
upon the ground of its general jurisdiction over frauds.
3. Whether the case made by the bill is of such a nature and
character as to give equity jurisdiction.
4. Nor does the fact that the fraud from which relief was

