DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

149

Lyon v. Bertram et al.

In Callender v. Marsh, (1 Pick., 417,) the defendant, as surveyor of the highways, was charged with digging down a street
in Boston, so as to lay bare the fouihdations of plaintiff's house,
and endanger its falling. The authorityunder which he acted
was given by a statute which required "that all highways,
townways, &c., should be kept in repair and amended from time
to time, that the same may be safe and convehient for travellers." "This very general and exclusive authority," say the
court, "would seem to include everything which may be needed
towards making the ways perfect and complete, either by levelling them where they are uneven and difficult of ascent, or
raising them where they should be sunken and miry." It was
held, also, that the law does not give a right to compensation
for an indirect or consequential damage or expense, resulting
from a right use of property belonging to the public.
In Green v. The Borough of Reading, (9 Watts, 282.)
The defendants, by virtue of their authority -to "improve and
repair," graded the street in front of plaintiff's house five feet
higher than it had been before, and it was held that the corporation was not liable to an action for any consequential injury to plaintiff's property, by reason of such improvement or
change of grade in the public street.
In the case of O'Connor v. Pittsburg, (18 Penn. Rep., 187,)
a church had been built according to the direction of the city
regulator, and by a grade established in 1829. Afterwards, in
pursuance of an ordinance, the grade of the street was reduced
seventeen feet; -the church had to'be taken down and rebuilt
on a lower foundation, at a damage of $4,000. The authority
given to &c.
the city was "to improve, repair, and keep in order the
streets,"
The court say, "We had this case reargued, in order to discover, if possible, some way to relieve the plaintiff consistently
with law, but grieve to say we can find none. The law is settled, not only in Pennsylvania, but by every decision in the
sister States, except one."
We are of opinion, therefore, that the instructions given by .
the court below on these points were correct, and affirm their
judgment.
JOSEPH HI. LYON, PLAINTIPF IN ERROR, V. Jom BERTRm, A EXANDER H. TWOMBLY, AND EDWIN LAMSON.
Where there was a contract for the purchase of a cargo df flour, and a portion of

it was delivered, paid for, and used by the purchaserr he cannot repudiate the
contract, upon the ground that the brand upon the flour was not that for which
he contracted.
The cases upon this point examined.

150

SUPREME COURT.
Lyon v. Bertram et al.

Where the statute of limitations imposes a bar upon certain species of contracts after
three years, and upon others after two years, and the plea did not show that the
contract in question was of the latter class, the plea was bad.
The laws of California require that actions shall be prosecuted in the name of the
real party in interest, and that all parties having an interest in the subject of the
action may be joined. So that this statute is complied with, it is not a fatal
objection that the respective interests of parties jointly concerned are not accurately set forth.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of California.
The facts are particularly stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Brent and &7.Poe for the plaintiff in
error, and Mr. Fessenden for the defendants.
The counsel for the plaintiff in error, after stating their objections to the pleadings in the case, and also those which
were founded on the statute of limitations in California, contended that this was not an entire contract for the purchase of
the whole cargo, but only for so much of it as was branded
Haxall; that the description of the quality was material; that
Lyon, if had chosen, could have declined to receive any part
of the cargo; that the acceptance of a part, under the circumstances, did not affect his right to repudiate the residue.
_41r. Fessendencontended that the contract was entire; that it
was an executed contract; that the term Hiaxall was descriptive
merely, and not material; that if it was material, then it was
an express warranty upon which the purchaser must rely, without rescinding the contract; and that the acceptance of a part
was an acceptance of the whole.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit was commenced by the defendants in error, to recover the price for a cargo of flour, bargained and sold to the
plaintiff in error, in the city of San Francisco. The judgment
of the Circuit Court was rendered upon a special verdc]t in
favor of the plaintiffs in that court. The verdict finds that on
the 13th Ja~uary, 1853, the plaintiffs, and Flint, Peabody, &
Co., were, jointly, the owners of a -cargo of flour, consisting
of two thousand barrels, branded, and which were in fact Gallego, thea being on the barque Ork, lying at a puiblic wharf in
San Francisco, and composing its entire cargo of flour, which
inspected 1,771 barrels superfine, and 229 bad.
The fi'm of Flint, Peabody, & Co., as agents and part owners, on the day aforesaid, concluded the following agreement
with the defendant:

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

151

.L jon v. Bertram et al.
SAN FtAwisco, January13, 1853.

Sold this day to Joseph H. Lyon, Esq., a cargo of Haxall
flour, now on board the barque Ork, lying in this harbor, bein$
about two thousand barrels, on the following terms and condi-,
tions, viz: Joseph H. Lyon, Esq., agrees to pay Messrs. Flint,
Peabody, & Co., thirty dollars per barrel for such as shall inspect superfine, and twenty-seven dollars per barrel for such
as shall inspect bad; payment to be made as it may be delivered, and to be received and paid for on or before the expiration of three weeks from date.
If Messrs. Flint, Peabody,-& Co., elect, they can land and
store the flour at the expiration of one week, or so much as
may remain on board at that time, Mr. Lyon paying storage
J. H. tYON. ,
and drayage expenses.
FLINT, PEABODY, & CO.

On the 25th January, 1853, the defendant applied to Flint,
Peabody, & Co., for fifty barrels of flour, so purchased by him,
by a written order, as follows:
SAN FiANcisco, January 25, 1853.
Messrs. Flint, Peabody, & Co., -will please deliver Mr. William R. Gorham, or bearer, fifty barrels of flour, out of the lot
J. H. LYON.
purchased from the ship Ork, 'ind oblige

Paying them therefor the contract price, amounting to the
sum of $1,500; and received from Flint, Peabody, & Co., the
following order;

SAN

FRAwCisco, January
25, 1853.

Captain of Barque Ork: Please deliver the bearer fifty barrels
-FLINT, PEABODY, & CO.
superfine flour, and oblige
Fifty barrels of Gallego flour, inspecting superfine, being
part of said cargo of flour on!board the barque Ork, was deliv-'
ered from the barqub to William R. Gorham, a baker, to whom
the defendant had sold and transferred the delivery order and
the said flour. When the order was made for WilliamR. Gorham, the defendant represented that the flour was Haxall. On
the 29th January, 1853, the defendant sold to Dunne & Co. fifty
barrels of flour, which he'epresented to be Haxall, and gave
the following order, .bearing date on that day:
Messrs. Grey & Doane will please deliver Messrs. Dunne &
J. H. LYON.
Co. fifty barrels of Haxall flour from Ork.
The said Dunne & Co., on discovering that the flour was not

SUPREME COURT.
Lyon v. Bertram et al.

Eaxall, but Gallego, refused to take it, and so notified the defendant. On the 31st of January, 1853, the defendant made
further application for one .hundred barrels of flour; being part
of the flour so purchased as aforesaid, and gave his check on
his bankers for the price, and received the following delivery
order from Flint, Peabody, & Co., bearing that date:
Capt. Huchings, Barque Oak: Please deliver to J. H. Lyon,
or to the order of Grey & Doane, one hundred barrels superfine
flour, and oblige, &c.
The check was not paid on presentation. Upon the refusal
of Dunne &Co. to take the flour, the defendant, on learning the
fact, notified the plaintiffs that he would not take the flour, and
countermanded the payment of the check he had given for the
one hundred barrels last mentioned.
On the 3d of February, 1853, the plaintiffs informed the defendant that they were prepared to deliver the remainder of
the cargo, and requested the defendant to receive it. And subsequently, on the same day, they.addressed him a note, in which
they advised him they would sell the flour on the 5th February,
at public auction, for his account, and would hold him responsible for the difference there might be in the net proceeds of
the proposed sale and the contract price, and for charges and
expenses, he (Lyon) having declined to take the flour under the
contract. All the flour on the barque was of the brand known
as Gallego, and the barrels were branded Gallego in printed
characters from two to two and one-half inches in length, on
both heads. In the opinion of some experts, there existed no
difference in the quality or price of the flour of either brand,
(Haxall and Gallego,) each inspecting superfine; but, in the
opinion of other experts, there was a difference, some preferring the one biand and some the other.
Subsequently to the sale, and up to and including the 28th
January, 1853, Gallego and Haxall flour had advanced to $35
per barrel in San Francisco; and between that and the 5th of
February the price of both declined to $18 per barrel. On the
5th of February the plaintifs caused the remainder of the cargo
to be sold at public auction, according to their notice to the
defendant, for his account, and at a great reduction of price.
The verdict does not find any fact to impugn the fairness of
this sale. Before this suit was commenced, Flint, Peabody, &
Co., assigned their interest in this suit to the plaintiffs, of which
the defendant had notice.
The verdict is silent in reference to the negotiations that
preceded the contract, and does not inform us whether the

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.
Lyon v. Bertram et al.

cargo was at any time visible to the defendant; nor does it discriminate with. exactness the qualities of Haxall and Gallego
flour, or affirm that there is any specific difference between them.
It is evident, from the verdict, that the error in the description of the cargo did not bear on the substance, or on any substantial quality of the subject of the sale. The subject of the
sale was a cargo of flour of about two thousand barrels, on
board of a vessel lying at a wharf in the city; of a .qualitr to be,
ascertained by an inspdetion; and fiom that inspection, 4nd not
from the brand, the price was to be ascertained. The brands
Haxal] and Gallego are understood to refer to different mills in
Richmond, Virginia, at which flour is manufactured. The verdict sufficiently3determines that the difference between them in
the market of San Francisco is inappreciable, at least by the
mass of purchasers and consumers. The case clearly does not
belong to thatclass in which the subject-matter of the contract
was of a nature wholly different from that concerning which
the parties to the contract made their engagements. -The brand
on the exterior of the barrels of flour was certainly not of the
substance of the contract. (Young i;. Cole, 3 Bing. I. C., 724;
Gompertz v. Bartlett, 2 Ell. and B., 19 Verm. R., 202.)
The defendant does not resist the fulfilment, of his agreement
for any fraud; nor does the verdict -imputeany na/afids to the
plaintiffs.

The case rests upon these facts. There was a sale of a cargo
of flour, at a price dependent upon the fact whether the com-:
ponent parts inspected superfine or bad, which was described
as of one brand, but which proved to be of another. There
was no material difference in the credit of the brands, and the
market price of the flour was but little affected by the question
whether the brand was of the one or the other mill.
A portion of the flour has been delivered to, and paid for,
.and consumed by, the defendant. He made no offer to return
this flour. The flour remained in the Ork from the 13th of
January till the 31st of January, subject to the exigencies of
the contract. During that period, there was no complaint on
the part of the defendant. From the 28th of January till the
5th of February, when the refusal to accept the remainder of
the flour and the sale of it on account took place, the price of
flour was steadily declining.
It may be admitted that the description of the flour as laxall
imported a warranty that it was manufactured at mills which
usd
2that brand; and that the purchaser Would have been entitled to recover the amount of difference in the value of that
and an inferior brand. (Powell v. Horton, 2 Bing. 1. C., 668;
Henshaw v. Robbins, 9 Met., 83.)

SUPREME COURT.
Lyon v. Bertram et al.

But it cannot be admitted that the purchaser was entitled to
abandon this contract.
In the note to Cutter v. Powell, in Smith's Leading Cases,
the annotator says: "It is settled, by Street v. Blay, and Poulton v. Lattimore, where an article is warranted, and the warranty is not complied with, the vendee has three courses, any
one of which he may pursue. 1. He may refuse to receive
the article at all. 2. He may receive it, and bring a cross
action for the breach of the warranty. 3. He may, without
bringing a cross action, use the breach of warranty in reduction of damages in an action brought by the vendor for the
price." The annotator proceeds to say, "that it was once
thought; and, indeed, laid down by Lord Eldon, in Curtis v.
Hanney, 3 Esp., 83, that he might, on discovering the breach
of warranty, rescind the contract, return the chattel, and, if he
had paid the price, recover it back. This doctrine, which was
opposed to Weston v. Downes, Doug., 23, is overruled by
Street v. Blay, 2 B. and Adol., and Gompertz v. Denton, 1 C.
and Mee., 205; and it is clear that, though the non-compliance
with the warranty will justify him in refusing to receive the
chattel, it will not justify him in returning it, and suing to recover back the price."
The second and third propositions of this learned author are
indisputable, and have received the sanction of this court.
Thornton v. Wynn, -12 Wheat., 183, as modified by Withers v.
Greene, 9 How. S. C. R., 213. The first proposition, concerning the right of the purchaser to reject the article because it
varies from the warranty, is an open question. In Dawson v.
Collins, 10 C. B. R,, 527, (70 E. C. L. R.,) the judges dissent
from it. The Chief Justice expressed his favor for the conclusion, "that the buyer has no right to repudiate the article,"
because it did not correspond to the warranty; and Cresswell,
Justice, said, ':Where the rule is of an individual and specific
thing, the vendee can only defend himself, altogether, against
,.n action for not accepting it, if the thing be utterly worthless,
as ifi
Poulton and Lattimore; or, in part, by giving the breach
of warranty in evidence in reduction of damages." And this
corresponds with the conclusions of this court in the case of
Thornton v. Wynn, 12 Wheat., 183, where very similar language is used.
But while the first proposition of the note in the Leading
Cases is a matter of dispute, there is none in respect to the
conclusion that the .purchaser who has received and used the
article, and derived a benefit from it, cannot then rescind the
contract. This principle is stated in Hunt v. Silk, 5 East., 449,
in which Lord Ellenborough says: "Where a contract is to

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.
Lyon v. Bertram et al.

be rescinded at all, .it must be rescinded in toto, and the par'ties put in statu quo." And, "if the plaintiff might occupy the
premises two days beyond the time when the repairs were to
have been done and the lease executed, and yet rescind the
contract, why might he not rescind it after a twelvemonth on
the same account? This objection cannot be gotten rid of.
The parties cannot be put in statu quo." In Perley v. Balch, 23
Pick., the same principle is applied to contracts of sale of chattels. The court say: "The purchaser cannot rescind the c6ntract, and yet retain any portion of the consideration. The
only exception is, where the property is entirely worthless to
both parties. The purchasers cannot derive any benefit from
the purchase, and yet rescind the contract. It must be nullified in toto or not at all. It cannot be rescinded in jart and
enforced in part." In Burnett v. Stanton, 2 Ala. R., 183, the
court say: "A contract cannot be rescinded without mutual
consent, when circumstances have been so altered by a part execution that the parties cannot be put in statu quo; for if it be
rescinded at all, it must be rescinded i toto." To the sameF
effect is Christy v. Cummins, 3 cLean ER., 886; 2 Hill N. Y.
R., 288, per C. J. Nelson; Kase v. John, 10 Watts, 107. In
Thornton v. Wynn, 12 Wheat., 183, this ecur say: "That if

the sale of a chattel be absolute, and there be no subsequent
agreement or consent of the vendor to take back the article,
the contract remains open, and the vendee is put to his action
upon the warranty, unless it be proved that the vendor knew
of the unsoundness of the article, and the vendee tendered a
return in a reasonable 'time."
If the verdict had found that the defendant had sustained
any damage from the difference in the brands on the flour, the
price would b-ve been diminished accordingly; and so the
defendant might have been indemnified upon an action comm.enced by bin,self, alleging a breach of the contract. But,
without considering whether he could refuse to accept any
portion of the flour for the variance from the letter of his dontract, we decide that he lost this power when he applied to
have, paid for, and sold the parcels, on the 25th and 31st of
January, 1853.
The defendant pleaded that the several causes of action in
the complaint mentioned did not accrue within two years
before the commencement of the suit. The codd of California
provides, that "an action upon any contract, obligation, or liability, founded upon an instrument of writing, except those
mentioned in a preceding section, shall be brought within three
years, and within two years if founded upoma contract, obligation, or .liability, not in writing, except in actions on an open

SUPREME COURT.
,Hungerfordv. Sigerson.

account, for goods, wares, and merchandises, and for any article
charged in a store account. The plea of the defendant does
not allege that the cause of action is founded upon a contract,
obligation, or liability, not in writing, nor show that it falls
within the limitation of two years, as pleaded. The complaint
is framed so as to admit evidence of a contract in writing quite
as well as an oral contract, and the evidence shows this action
is founded on a written contract. The plea should have contained an averment that the cause of action was not in writing,
with such other averments as to show that the bar of the statute
pleaded was applicable.
A plea cannot be sustained, which rests for its validity upon
a supposed state of facts which may not exist. The plea must
be an answ'er to .any case which may be legally established
under the declaration. Winston v. The Trustees' University, &c., &c., 1 Ala. R., 124.
It was objected that the proof shows that the assignment by
Flint, Peabody, & Co., was made to the plaintiffs in the suit,
and that the declaration alleges that they assigned their interest
in the claim to John Bertram, one of the plaintiffs. The code
of California requires that actions shall be prosecuted in the
name of the real party in interest, and that all parties having
an interest in the subject of the action, and in obtaining the
relief demanded, may be joined as plaintiffs. The plaintiffs
are shown to be the parties jointly interested in the subject of
the action, and in the claim for relief. It is quite immaterial
in what proportions they may be concerned. Their case is
substantially established, when their joint interest is shown,
and the error in respect to the degree of the interest of the
several parties is not such a variance as will be considered.
Judgment affirmed.
WILLIAM

S. ]TUNGERFORD, APPELLANT, V. JOHN SIGERSON.

Where a bill in chancery was filed for the purpose of enjoining a judgment at law,
obtained upon a promissory note, and the bill did not allege that adequate relief
could not be had at law, and did not contain any charges of fraud; neither did
itaver that. it was owing to the contrivance or unfairness of the defendant that
an adequate remedy could not be had at law, nor did it show the necessity of
interference by a court of equity to obtain a discovery, the bill must be dismissed.

THIS was an appeal from the District Court of the United

States for the district of Wisconsin.
The facts of the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Bradley for the appellant, and by 17r.
Cushing and Mr. Gillett for the appellee.

