194

SUPREME COURT.
Thompson Y. Selden et al.

to be sold for the best prices that can be gotten for the same,
and declares, "all occupancy and every survey, claim, or pretence for holding the same islands by any other title, shall be
utterly void."
The statute thus recognised and continued the rule as it was
found to have existed under the proprietary Government.
By the common law, fresh-water rivers do not come within
the category of navigable rivers, and the riparian owners had
a right to all the islands in the river, "ad medium filum aquer."
But such has never been the law in Pennsylvania: In the
case of Carson v. Blazer, (2 Binney, 473,) this peculiarity of
the traditionary law of Pennsylvania, difilring from the common law of England, was first recognised byjudicial authority.
The late Chief Justice Tilghman, speaking of the proprietary,
says: "No doubt he retained the entire right to the river, and
of everything in the river, in order that he might make such use

of it as would be most conducive to the public benefit." And
again, in Shrunk v. The Schuylkill Nav. Co., (14 S. and R.,
79,) he remarks: "These islands have never been open to applicants under the conimon terms of office, either under the
proprietary or State Government," and refers with approbation
to the case of Hunter v. Howard, (10 S. and R., 243,) which
decides that, "from the first settlement of the country, islands
in the great rivers of Pennsylvania, under the provisional Government, were never subjects of appropriation, either by officerioht or settlement." This doctrine has continued to be recognised as settled law in Pennsylvania for half a century. See
Fisher v. Carter, (1 Wallace, p. 69;) Johns v. Davidson," (4
Harris, 516.) It is treated as such in the learned work of
Judge Sergeant on the Land Laws of Pennsylvania, p. 193.
INor can any case be found in the reports or traditions of the
bar, which varies or contradicts this uniform course of decision.
It is through these sources alone that this court must seek for
a solution of the question; and finding the law so established
by the tribunals of the State, we are bound to acquiesce in and
follow their decisions.
The decree of the Circuit Court is therefore affirmed, with
costs.
GILBERT L. THOMPSON, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. WILLIAM SELDEN, JOHN WITHERS, ROBERT W. LATHAM, AND LAWRENCE P.
BAYNE, DOING BUSINESS UNDER THE FIRM OF SELDEN, WITHERS,

& COMPANY.
The fifteenth section of the judiciary act of 1789 authorizes the Circuit Court, upon
motion and the notice thereof, to require a party to produce books or writings,
&c.- And if a plaintiff shall fail to comply with such order, it shall be lawful for

.DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

195

Tompson v. Selde et al.
the court, on motion, to give the like judgment for the defendant as in cases of
nonsuit.
It is not enough for a defendant to give notice, and then move for a judgment of
nonsuit. There must be a moi.on for an order to produce the books and
papers.
This court again decides that it rests in the soun& discretion of the court below
to grant or refuse a motion to continue a case; and a writ of error from such a
judgment will not lie.

THis case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holden
in and for the county of Washington.
The facts of the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. John S. Tyson for the plaintiff in error,
*andby Mr. Magruder for the defendants. On that side, also,
was a brief by Messrs. Davidge, Ingle, and Chilton.
.Mr. ijson, for the plaintiff in error, made the following.
points:
The act of Congress, September 24, 1789, empowers the Circuit Courts of the United States, in the trial of actions at law,
on motion and due notice thereof being given, to require the
plaintiffs to produce books or writings, in their possession or
power, Which contain evidence pertinent to the issue in cases
and under circumstances where they might be compelled to
produce the same by the ordinary rules of proceeding in
chancery.
The record, page 9, (affidavit No. 1,) shows that said books
were pertinent, to the issue, and (affidavit No. 2) that due
notice was given to plaintiffs below to produce said books and
papers.
The court's refusal to grant the order, which was an order nisi
only, was error.
The order-nsi issues, as a matter of course-ex debito justitie.
(2 Dall., 333, Geyger v. Geyger; 11 Johns. R., 245; Lawrence
v. The Ocean Ins. Co.; 3 Wash. C. C., R., 381, Joseph Bas et
al. v. Steele.)
It is not necessary that the party applying for the order nisi
should first produce proof of the pertinency of the evidencea simple suggestion to that effect is sufficient. (Hylton v. Brown,
-1 Wash: C. C. R., 298.)
If that suggestion was not sufficient in affidavit No. 1, p. 9,
it was rendered completely so by affidavit No. 3, p. 10.
The court, therefore, certainly erred in refusing the order nisi
moved after the filing of the affidavit No. 3.
. Competency and pertinency of the evidence sought fully
shown by that affidavit.
Entries on partnership books may be given in evidence, if

196

SUPREME COURT.
Thompson v. Selden et al.

made bef6re dissolution. (2 Wash. C.C. R., Assignees of Simonton v. Boucher et al.; ib., 482, Jordan v. Wilkins.)
Afortiori, entries on the books of a banking establishment.
This proceeding, under the act of 1789, is in the nature of a
bill of discovery, and proceedings under it. (Wendall's Rep.,
vol. 9, 458, 6 Cowen, 62, Bank of Utica v. Hilliard; 1 Johns.
R., 395, Kenny v. Vanhorne and Clarkson; Cowen and Hill's
Notes to Ph., 191; Notes to Phill., 197.)
The right to a bill of discovery, although said to be a right
of the plaintiff; is also a right of the defendant, because by
cross bill he can always make himself plaintiff: (Wigram on
Discovery, 24, 25.)
To a bill of discovery a party must answer. (Ib., 207.)
By an act of the General Assembly of Maryland, chap. 72,
sec. 21, passed in 1785, the defendant in equity has the same
power to interrogate the plaintiff that he has to interrogate the
defendant. (Gresley's Treatise of the Law of Evidence in Courts
of Equity, 43 to 46.)
So upon an order nisi, if the party refuses to show cause, the
ordeir becomes absolute. (Iylton c. Brown, 1 Wash. C. C. R.,
298.)
The court further
sworn. erred in refusing the necessary order, after
the jury was
The plaintiff below could .not resort to the alternative of
&iving evidence of the contents of the books and papers called
for, because impossible. Ie was in that state of necessity which
the law always respects and relieves. The court, in this necessity, refused even to continue the cause. In general, the refusal to continue a cause is not error, but it is presumed that
this rule is not without exceptions, and that in a case like this,
where by the action of the court the defendant is placed at the
mercy of the plaintiff, the least the court could do would be to
continue the cause. (Act Assem. Maryland, 1787, chap. 9, sec. 8.)
Upon the whole, the whole action of the court was the withholding from the jury of competent evidence offered by the
defendant below, and that is error. (12 Pet., 154, Martha Bradstreet v. Anson Thomas; 17 How., p. 13, Cowen and Hill's
Notes, vol. 4, p. 775, 776; 1 Duer, Sup. C. R., 431, 434.)
The counsel for the defendant in error made the following
points:
I. That the notice to produce books and papers, served by
the defendant on the plaintiffs' counsel below, in the record
referred to, was insufficient in point of time, and too general
in its terms and extent. (1 vol. Stat. at Large, p. 82; 2 Cranch
C. C. R., 427; ib., 336; 8 Cranch C. C. i., 646.)

DEOEMBER TERM, 1857.

197

Thompson v. Belden et al.

RT. That the said notice and affidavits filed therewith are defective, because they do not show or aver that the evidence
sought
was "pertinent to the issue," andordinary
such as the
of prorulesplaintiffs
"might .be compelled to produce by the
ceeding in chancery." (8 Johns. C. R., 45;invoked
16 Johns.
defendthe591,598.)
byT.,
I. That the exercise of the power
ant's motion
to produce books,
&c., is
matter
of sound discretion
and that
unconditional,
and
imperative
with the court, and not
the record does not show that this discretion has been abused
by the court below.
cause is
continue the 9o
IV. That the refusal of the court
sound
the
to
addressed
always
being
motion
not error-such a
218.)
206,
Cranch,
(6
court.
the
of
discretion
V. That the record does not show any proper ground on
this result
that
; and of
can be sustained
error
of the
which
theiftranscript,
or omissions
meagreness
attributable
'be the writ to
error,
the plaintiff'sofinthe
operate to
such defects must
are
law,since
the inteadments
and alldefeat
court,

ise rule of the
in favor of the correct ruling of the court below.

Mr. Chief Justice TA_-EY delivered the opinion of the court.
District
the in
Circuit Court
to the rendered
of aerror
is a writ
favor
in thatforcourt
judgment
upon
Columbia,
of This
of the defendants in error, in a suit brought by them upon cerset forth in the pleadings.
tain promissory notes
Some time beforeth thrial, a notice was served on Selden,
Writhers, & Co., the defendants in error, to produce certain
in the notice; and that, unless
books and papers mentioned
at the trial, the plaintiff in eror would

they were produced
move the court for a nonsuit, or for a like judgment as in
cases of .nonsuit; and an affidavit was made by the plaintiff
in e.rror, that the books and papers specified were necessary for
Those applications and motions were afterwards
repeated before the trial and at the trial, upon further aeidavits
and notices to the same effect, which it is not necessary here
his defence.

set forth.
to They
were opposed by Selden, Withers, & Co., who .were

the plaintifls in that court, and the motions were all overruled by the court. The exception does not state on what
ground they were opposed, nor upon what ground they were
overruled; and as far as the case is disclosed in the record, we
see nothing in the rulihgs of the court to impeach its judgment.
The fifteenth section of the judiciary act of 1789, under which
these proceedings were had, authorizes the court, upomotion
and due notice thereof, to require a party to produce books or
writings in his possession or power, which contain evidence

1.98

SUPREME COURT.
Dean v. Mason et al.

pertinent to the issue, in cases and under circumstances where
they might be compelled to produce the same by the ordinary
rules of proceeding in chancery; and if a plaintiff shall thil to
comply with such order, it shall be lawful for the court, on
motion, to give the like judgment for the defendant as in cas-js
of nonsuit.
The transcript does not show that any motion was made for
an order upon the plaintiff to produce the books and papers
mentioned in the notice. It shows that a motion was made to
render a judgment of nonsuit for not complying with the
notice, and also a motion for a continuance of the case. But
the court is not authorized by the act of Congress to enter a
judgment of nonsuit upon the failure of the party to comply
with the notice. The notice is merely a preliminary proceeding, to enable the party to bring befbre the court the motion
for the order to produce; and when that motion is made, the
party called on has a right to be heard, and he is not bound to
produce the books and papers called for, until the court shall
order him to produce them, and is in no default unless he refuses or neglects to obey the order. The court were therefore
right in refusing to enter the judgment, when no order had
been moved for or granted.
And as regards the motion to continue the case, it has often
been decided by this court, that the refusal of an inferior court
to continue a case to another term cannot be assigned for
error here. Justice requires that the granting or refusal of a
continuance should be left to the sound judicial discretion of
the court where the motion is made, and where all of the circumstances connected with it, and proper to be considered,
can readily be brought before the court.
We think, therefore, that neither of the objections taken
here can be sustained, and that the judgment of the Circuit
Court must be affirmed.
WILLIAm

B.

DEAN, APPELLANT, V. INATHAN MASON ET AL.

-In suits for the infringement of a patent right, the rule of dam. - es is the amount
which the infringer actually realized in profits, not what he Ltiight have made
by reasonable diligence.
ikfter a bill is taken pro confesso in the Circuit Court, a motion to allow an answer to be filed is addressed to the discretion of the court; and from a refusal
so to do, an appeal does not lie to this court.
motion to dismiss the complainant's bill, upon the ground that he had parted
with his interest, was properly overruled, because such assignment was not made
until after the time when the computation of profits ended.

THis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of Rhode Island.

