SUPREME COURT.
Carroll et al. v. Dorsey et al.

A motion to amend, or file an answer after default, is gen
erally addressed to the discretion of the court. Under some
circumstances, the court, for the purposes of justice, will go
great lengths in opening a default and allowing a plea to be
filed.. But this is done or refused by the court, in the exercise of
its discretion, which is not subject to the revision of this court.
In the case before us, the motion to file an answer was not
made until after the decree pro confesso had been entered, and
a reference made to a master for an account. This was more
than three years after the bill was filed. Whether the Circuit
Court refused the motion on the ground of delay, or a want of
merits in the cause assigned, does not appear; but it is sufficient to say, that on such grounds 'the decree cannot be reversed.
The motion to dismiss the complainant's bill, upon proof
that they had parted with all their interest in the subject-matter of the suit, was properly overruled. The allegation is, that
Mason parted with his title in April, 1852, and the account of
the profits is brought down only to the 29th August, 1851. The
right asserted in this action was not affected by the conveyance of Mason to Baker & Smith.
The refusal of the Circuit Court to permit a supplemental
bill to be filed by Baker & Smith, was, under the circumstances, a matter of discretion in the court; and it affords no
ground for the reversal of the decree. It is not perceived what
interest these assignees could have in a suit for an infringement of the patent, before their right accrued; and any attempt
to make them parties, with the view to benefit the defendants
in the pending suit, was unsustainable.
For the reasons assigned, the decree for damages must be
reversed, at the costs of the defendants in error, as founded on
an erroneous estimate; and the cause is remanded to the Circuit Court, with instructions to enter a decree for the amount
of the profits realized by the defendant from the wrongful use
of the patent.

C. FITZriUGH, ET AL., DEVISEES OF DANIEL
CARROLL OF DUDDINGTON, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. NICHOLAS

JANE CARROLL, MARIA

DORSEY, NOAH DORSEY, ACtHSAIH DORSEY, TRISTAM
HEIRS AT LAW OF ALFRED

IR.

S.

DORSEY,

DOWsON, DECEASED.

Although an irregularity in the citation may be cured by an appearance in court,
yet a defect in the writ of error, (such as not naming a return day for the writ,)
or an omission to file a transcript of the record at the term next succeeding the
issuing of the writ or the taking of the appeal, are fatal errors, and the case
must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

DECENMBER TERM, 1857.

205

Carroll et al. t. Dorney el al

THIs case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holden
in and for the county of Washington.
A motion was made to dismiss it, by Mr. Bradley and Mr.
Charles Lee Jones, for the following reasons, viz:
That it is manifest, by the record filed in this court in the.said
cause, that the judgment therein was rendered in the Circuit
Court of the District of Columbia, at the Octobe! term of said
court, in the year 1851.
That the appeal bond filed therein bears date the 27th day
of May, 1853; that the recital of the said bond sets out a writ
of error, returnable to the term of this court to be holden on
the first Monday of December then next ensuing; that the said
bond was approved on the 17th day of December, 1853, being
after the return day of said writ, as set out in the said bond;
that the citation and writ of error were both issued on the 17th
day of December, 1853, and the said writ of error was returnable to this court, without designating to what term the same
should be returned; that the transcript of the record of the
said cause was not returned to or filed in this court until the
December term, 1856.
And therefore they say, for the said irregularities in the said
proceedings, patent on the face of the record of the said cause,
the said cause ought to be dismissed.
The motion was opposed by 1r". Coxe, who, after explaining
the cause of the delay, contended that inasmuch as a general
appearance was entered at December term, 1856, the motion
to dismiss now came too late.
As a general rule, defects in mesne process are cured by appearance. (1 Bos. and Pul., 105, 250, 644.)
In 8 Cranch, 496, process had irregularly issued, in contravention-of the express language of a statute prescribing to whom
it should be directed. This irregularity was specially pleaded
and demurred to. The court unanim6usly held that the appearance by attorney cured all irregularity of process.
In Harrison v. Rowan, 1 Peters C. C. R., 489, the true distinction is taken. It is said the eleventh section of the judiciary act, which relates to the service of process, is not a denial
of jurisdiction, but the grant of a privilege to the defendant not
to be sued out of the State where he resides, which he may
waive by a voluntary appearance. (14 Peters, 174, 299.)
In 8 Dallas, 87, one error alleged was, that a monition should
have issued; but this court held, that if this was a defect inquirable into byit, it was cured by appearance. (8 Wheat., 699.)

206

SUPREME COURT.
Carroll et al. v. Dory et al.

In 4 Cranch, 180, it was held, that where the writ of error is
returned, although not at the first term, the appearance of defendant in error waives all objection to the irregularity.
In 3 Howard, 693, McDonogh v. Millaudon, the party by
appearance and delay was held to waive all objection; and in
13 Howard, Buckingham v. McLean, a motion at a subsequent
term after appearance was held to be too late.
As to any irregularity in the form of the writ, that at most
is a mere clerical error, and cannot prejudice the parties in the
case.
Mr. Chief Justice TAN EY delivered the opinion of the
court.
A motion has been made to dismiss this case, for want of
jurisdiction.
It appears that an action of ejectment was brought by the
plaintiftf in error against the defendants, in the Circuit Court
of the District of Columbia, and upon the trial the verdict and
judgment was for the defendants.
The particular day on which the judgment was rendered is
not given; but it is stated as a judgment on the third Monday
in October, in the year 1851, which it appears was the first day
of the term. But it also appears that two excepti6ns were
taken at the trial by the plaintiffs; one dated the 20th and the
other the 22d of Novem ber; so that the judgment would seem
to have been rendered a few days before the December term,
1851, of this court.
No steps were taken to bring it here for revision, until the
27th of May, 1b53, when an appeal bond was approved by the
presiding judge, which recites that the plaintiffs had obtained
a writ of error, returnable to the next term of this court, and
filed it in the clerk's office. No such writ of error, however, appears to have been issued. A paper, purporting to be a writ of
error, was issued after the commencement of December term,
1853; that is, on the 17th of that month. This paper is made
returnable to the Supreme Court in general terms, without
naming any day or even any term at which the defendants
were required to appear. The transcript before us also contains a citation, signed by the presiding judge, and the service
is acknowledged by the attorney for the defendants. But the
citation, like the paper purporting to be a writ of error, specifies no day or term at which the defendants are required to
appear, and, moreover, is not itself dated.
No further proceedings were had, to bring up the case,
until December term, 1856, when the record was filed without any other writ of error, bond, or citation; and at the

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

207

Carroll el al. v. Dorney et al.

same term the defendants, by their counsel, appeared in this
court.
It is evident, from this statement, that the case is not before
the court. The act of 1789, sec. 22, requires that the writ of
error should be made returnable on a certain day, therein
named; and, indeed, upon common-law principles, a certain
return day in a writ of error is essential to its validity. There
is therefore no process by which the case is legally brought
before this court, and consequently we have no jurisdiction'
over it. And if the process was free from exception, and if a
writ of error, such as is known and recognised by law, had
been issued and filed in the Circuit Court, yet no transcript
of the record was filed here until nearly three years afterwards;
and this court have repeatedly said that the transcript of the
record must be filed at the term next succeeding the issuing
of the writ or the taking of the appeal, in order to bring the
case ivithin the jurisdiction of this court.
But it is said, on behalf of the plaintiffs in error, that these are
mere irregularities, which were waived. by the general appearance at the last term, and that the motion at the present term
is too late.
Undoubtedly the appearance of the defendants at the last
term, without making a motion to dismiss, cures the defect in
the'citation. The citation is nothing more than notice to the
party to appear at the time specified for the return of the writ
of error. And if he appears, it shows that he had notice; and
if he makes no objection during the first term to the want of
notice, or to any defect in the citation, he must be xegarded as
havingwaived it. The citation is required for his benefit, and
he may therefore waive it if he thinks proper, and proceed to
trial in the appellate court. This point was decided in the
case of the United States v.- Yulee et al., 6 How., 603; but
the court at the same time said that the appearance did
not preclude the party from afterwards moving to dismiss
for the want of jurisdiction, or upon any other sufficient
ground.
The samd point was again decided in the case of Buckingham et al. v. McLean et al., 13 How., 150, in which the court
said that a motion to dismiss for want of a citation must be
made at the first term at which the party appears, and is too
late if made at a subsequent term. But the want of a writ of
error, such as is prescribed by the act of Congress, stands on
different ground. And in the case of the United States v.
-Curry, 6 How., 118, the court held, that where the power of the
court to hear and determine a case is conferred by acts of Congress, and the same authority which gives the jurisdiction points

208

SUPREME COURT.
Chaffee v. Hayward and Day v. Hayward.

out the manner in which it shall be brought before us, we have
no power to dispense with the provisions of the law, nor to
change or modify them.
Upon this ground, the case isnot legally before us, and must
be dismissed for wiant of jurisdiction.

EDWIN M. CHAFFEE, TRUSTEE OF HORACE

H. DAY, PLAINTIFF IN
H. DAY, PLAIN-

HORACE
ERROR, V. NATHANIEL HAYWARD.
TIFF IN ERROR, V. -NATHANIEL HAYWARD.

By the judiciary act of 1789, no civil suit shall be brought against an inhabitant
of the United States by an original process in any other district than that
whereof he is an inhabitant, or in which he shall be found at the time of serving
the writ.
This provisioni of law is not changed by any subsequent process act, or by the law
giving jurisdiction to Circuit Courts in patent cases, without regard to citizenship.
Therefore, where a suit was commenced for an infringement of a patent right, and
process was served by attaching the property of an absent defendant, this was
not sufficient to give the court jurisdiction.
The defect of an irregular citation (being signed by the clerk of the court, and not
by the judge who allowed the writ of error) is cured by an appearance in this
court; so that a motion to dismiss the writ, when made at the term succeeding
that at which the appearance was entered, comes too late.
THESE

cases were brought up, by writ of error, from the Cir-

cuit Court of the United States for the district of Rhode Island.
At an early day of the term, Mr. Pitman, counsel for the defendant in error, moved to dismiss the writs of error upon the
ground stated below, and filed the following affidavit in support of the motion:
SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES, NO. 5L; DEC. TERM, 1857.

.Edwin .1 Chaffee, Trustee of Horace f. Dal, Plaintiffin Error,
v. Nathaniel Hayward.
The defendant in error in this cause moves that this cause
be dismissed, the citation herein having been signed by the
clerk of the Circuit Court, and not by the judge, as required
JosE'llh S. PITMAN.
by law. By his attorney,
I, Joseph S. Pitman, of the city and county of Providence,
and State of Rhode Island, &c., attorney at law, on oath say,

that I am and have been associated with Charles S. Bradley,
Esq., in the defence of the above cause; that he is the junior
counsel in said cause; that he left the city of Providence for
Europe on the first or second day of December, 1856; that we

