DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

219

Paym et al. v. Xdmleet al.

JACOB U. PAYNE, J. P. HARRISON, AND GEORGE W. HUNTINGDON, COMMERCIAI PARTNERS, UNDER THE NAME AND FIRM OF
PAYNE & HARRISON, INTERVENORS, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V.
JONATHAN J. NILES, JAMES M. KiLES, LEANDER H. COREY,
AND STEPHEN ALLEN, PARTNERS, DOING BUSINESS- UNDER THE
NAME AND STYLE OF KILES & Co., PLAINTIFFS, AND WILLIAM
A. BROADWELL, SYNDIC OF ANDREW KNOX, DECEASED, DEFENDANT.
No one can bring up, as plaintiff in a writ of error, the judgment of an inferior
court to a superior one, unless he Was ' party to the judgment in the court below; nor can any one be made a defendant in the writ of error who-was not a
party to the judgment in the inferior court.
Therefore, where there was a judgment in the court below, and certain persons
intervened, whose petition for intervention was dismissed, they have no right to
sue out a writ of error from the judgment to which they were not parties; nor
was any process, upon their intervention, served upon the original defendant.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit Court of the United States for the eastern district of
Louisiana.
As originally brought, the suit was lfles & Co. v. Knox, and
the circumstances which led to the change of title are stated
in the opinion of the court.
On the 8th of February, 1856, the Circuit Court dismissed
the intervention, with costs, when the intervenors sued out a
writ of error, and brought the case up to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Chilton for the plaintiffs in error, and
by Mr. eiajamin for the defendant. There were also briefs of
.Mr. Chilton and MVr. -Davidgefor the plaintiffs in error, and .Ar.
Pike for the defendant.
-Mr.
Benjamin thus noticed the point upon which the decision

of the court turned:
1st. The writ of error must be dismissed. There is no such
record as is required by the eleventh and thirty-first rules of
the court. There is nothing but a petition of intervention,
and an agreed statement of facts without any date, but which
seems to have b~en made up after the new trial was refused;
no answer, no pleadings, no bill of exceptions. (Keene v.
Whitaker, 13 Pet., 459; Curtis v. Petitpain, 18 How., 110.)
2d. The judgment appealed from is one of which this court
has no jurisdiction; the writ ought to be dismissed. (Bayard
v. Lombard, 9 How., 550; Curtis v.

IPetitpain,

18 How., 110.)

Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the
court.

SUPREME COURT.
Payne edaL. v. Nameet al.

This case is brought here by a writ of error directed to the
Circuit Court for the eastern district of Louisiana.
It appears by the transcript, that Niles & Co., citizens of
Ohio, brought suit in the Circuit Court against Andrew Knox,
of Louisiana, for the price of certain machinery furnished to
the latter for the use of his plantation. They claimed the
vendor's privilege on the articles sold, which were still in possession of the vendee. The suit was instituted on the 21st of
February, 1855, and on the 17th of April, 1855, a decree was
rendered in favor of the plaintiff for two thousand six hundred
and eighty-six dollars and sixty-nine cents, with interest, and
with the vendor's privilege on the machinery.
On the 19th of March, 1855, Payne & Harrison, the plaintiffs
in error, citizens of Louisiana, filed in the Circuit Court a petition of intervention in the above-mentioned suit, alleging
that Knox was indebted to them in a large sum of money, for
which they held a mortgage on the plantation on which the
machinery in question was erected; and claiming that their
right by virtue of this mortgage was superior to the vendor's
lien of Niles & Co., and prayed a citation for Niles & Co.;
but did not pray for any process against Knox. Nor does the
record show that he ever voluntarily appeared to or answered
this petition. And on the- 8th of February, 1856, it was by
the judgment of the Circuit Court finally dismissed, with
costs.
A statement of facts was afterwards agreed on between the
counsel for Niles & Co. and the counsel for Payne & Harrison,
which is set forth in the transcript, but it does not appear that
Knox assented to it, or indeed had any knowledge of it.
Afterwards, on the 18th of February, 1856, the counsel for
Payne & Harrison represented to the court that Knox had died
after the suit on their intervention was instituted, and that no
one had qualified as his executor or administrator, and that
there was no representative of his estate, except William A.
Broadwell, of New Orleans, who was the duly-appointed and
qualified syndic of said Knox; and thereupon moved the court
that the said Broadwell be made a party to the cause, which
was accordingly ordered by the court, and a copy of the order
served on him by the marshal on the succeeding day; and on
the day of the service, this writ of error was sued out by the
intervenors, Payne & Harrison.
The writ recites that a judgment was rendered in a case between Niles & Co., plaintiffs, and Broadwell, syndic of Knox,
defendant, and Payne & Harrison, intervenors in said suit, who
were plaintiffs, both as against Niles & Co. and Broadwell, syndic of Knox; and citations were issued and served on Niles &

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

221

McGavock v. Woodlief.

Co. and Broadwell, to appear in this court upon the return of
the writ of error.
It will be seen, from this statement, that Payne & Harrison
were not parties to the judgment in the suit of Niles & Co. v.
Knox. The only judgment in the Circuit Court to which they
were parties, was the judgment dismissing their petition of intervention; and Knox was not made a party defendant in that
proceeding, nor was he a party to that judgment. The order
of the court to make Broadwell, his syndic, a party, was passed
after this judgment was rendered.
Writs of error to remove the judgment of an inferior tribunal to this court are, under the acts of Congress, governed by
the principles and usages of the commou law. And it is very
well settled in all common-law courts, that no one can bring
up, as plaintiff in a writ of error, the judgment of an inferior
court to a superior one, unless he was a party to the judgment
in the court below; nor can any one be made a detndant in
the writ of error, who was not a party to the judgment in the
inferior court. 'ayne & Harrison, therefore, have, no right t6
sue out a writ of error upon the judgment in the suit between
Tiles & Co. and Knox, to which they were not a party, nor can
they make Knox or his representative a defendant in a writ of
error brought upon the judgment on the petition of intervention, to which neither Knox nor Broadwell, his syndic, was a
party.
This writ of error attempts to do both, and is therefore not
warranted by law. It cannot bring the judgments referred to,
or either of them, before this court, and must therefore be dismissed, with costs.

JOHN McG-vOCK, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. PETER W. WOODLIEF.
A broker who negotiates the sale of an estate is not entitled to his commission
until he finds a purchaser in a situation and ready and willing to complete the
purchase on the terms agreed upon between the broker and the vendor.
Where the judge files the statement of-facts after the trial, nuncyro tune, it is rqasonable to presume that he had been requested to do so at the trial.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the eastern district of Louisiana.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

It was argued by Mr. Benjamin for the plaintiff ia errorand Mr. Taylor for the defendant.

