448

SUPREME COURT.
Warner v. Norton et al.

to protest it for non-acceptance. The proof of a parol contract,
that it should not be presentable till a distant, uncertain, or
undefined period, tended to alter and vary, in a very material
degree, its operation and effect. (See Thompson v. Ketchum,
8 John., 192.)
Any number of conflicting cases on this subject might be
cited. It will be sufficient to refer to the decisions of this
court, those of Texas, where the suit was brought, and of Louisiana, where the contract was made.
In the Bank of United States v. Dunn, (6 Peters, 56,) this
court have declared "that there is no rule better settled or more
salutary in its application than that which precludes the admission of parol evidence to contradict or substantially vary
the legal import of a written agreement." The case of Brochmore v. Davenport, 14 Texas Rep., 602, a case precisely similar to the present, adopts the same rule. The case of Robishat
v. Folse, 11 Louisiana, and of Barthet v. Estebene, 5 Ann.
Rep., 315, and several others, acknowledge the same doctrine,
thereby overruling -some early cases in touisiana which had
departed from it.
This being the only point urged by plaintiff in error as a
ground of reversal, the judgment of the court below is affirmed.

FRANCIS WARNER, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. CEPHAS H. NORTON,
ALBERT JEWETT, BENJAMIN C. BUSBY, JOHN C. PHELPS,
JOHN J. PHELPS, ISAAC N. PHELPS, AND' JAMES BEMAN, DEFENDANTS.
Where a sheriff was sued for taking goods under an attachment, which goods had
been previously assigned under circumstances which were alleged to be fraudulent, it was proper for the court to charge the jury, "that if they believed, from
the evidence, that the sale was made for the purpose of hindering, delaying, or
defrauding creditors, it was invalid as against the defendant: and that whether the
sale was or was not fraudulent was a question of fact, to be determined by the
jury under all the circumstances of the case; that if the sale were secret, and no
means taken to apprise the public of it, these were facts which threw suspicion
upon the transaction, but did not make the sale fraudulent in law as against the
defendant.
A decision an a motion for a new trial, being addressed to the discretion of the court,
is no ground for a writ of error.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the northern district of Illinois.
It was an action of trespass brought by Torton, Jewett, &
Busby, against Warner, for taking certain goads in a storehouse
in the village of Lasalle. Warnerj ustified the taking, as sheriff
of Lasalle county, under certain writs of attachment against
one Haskins, the former owner.

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.
Warner v. Norton et al.

The jury found a verdict for the plaintiffs, assessing the
damages at five thousand six hundred dollars and sixty-four
cents.
The bill of exceptions shows the whole case, and it is inserted in. extenso, because the questions of law involved have
been decided in different ways by courts' of justice, and elementary writers do not agree about them.
Be it remembered, that on the trial of this cause, plaintiffs
in this action claimed title to the goods, for the taking of which
this suit was brought, by a sale of the goods alleged to have
been made by one Haskins to them, through one Isaa6 Anderson, as their agent.
The proof of the plaintiffs tended to show that Beman, one
of the plaintiffs, had a claim as creditor against Haskins, of
about $1,200, and that the firm of Norton, Jewett, & Busby,
had a similar claim of about $3,000. That each of these claims
had been put in the hands of one Anderson, by the owners
thereof, respectively, for collection with authority to settle ok
arrange in anyway. .Thaton the 10th of January, A. D. 1855,
the goods were chiefly in a hardware storeroom, and in the tin
shop attached thereto, in the village of Lasalle; and that, up
to that time, Haskins had been carrying on the business 'of a
hardware retailer, and of manufacturing tinware in his tin
.shop adjoining; that while he was absent, his business was
conducted for him by one Atherton, as his head clerk, -who
employed the operatives and superintended them, the business
being done in the name of haskins; that-on the tenth of January, 1855, Raskins sold his stock of hardware and tinware to
Bemnan and the firm of Norton,.Tewett, & Busby, through Anderson, as their agent as aforesaid, Anderson cancelling the
aforesaid
debts, and gving his notes on time, to Blaskins, for
the balance of the price agreed upon; that thereupon, by way
of putting the purchaser in possession, Haskins, Anderson,
and Atherton, being in the storeroom, Haskins got the key o#"
the front door, and gave it to Anderson, and Anderson' gave
the key and charge of the store and tin shop to Atherton, wh
up to that time had been carrying on the business for Haskizii,
but then undertook to act for Anderson;
That Anderson left town, and about the same time Haskins
left town, and neither of them returned until after the taking
by the defendant, (Haskins never having returned to reside
there, and never having since resided there, or interfered with
the goods in any way after the sale;) that Cephas H. Norton,
Albert Jewett, and Benjamin I usby, were the ostensible partners of the firm of Norton, Jewett, & Busby; but that -Ander29
VoL. xx.

SUPREME COURT.
Warner v. Norton et al.

son, in preparation for the bringing of this suit, was informed
by the ostensible partners that there were special partners;
that John C. Phelps was a special partner, and a brother of
John 0. Phelps.
There was no distinct evidence in the case to show that John
J. Phelps and Isaac N. Phelps, or either of them, were members of the firm of Norton, Jewett, & Busby, or that they ever
were in any way interested in the property taken; but the
witness stated he believed or supposed the parties named in
the record were the parties in interest, but he did not actually
know it of his own knowledge.
[It is but fair to state, that while this point was made by the
defendant, it was not pressed or insisted on, and the court thinks
the plaintiffs' counsel might so infer, and therefore might not
have thought it necessary to furnish additional proof.]
Plaintifts' proof further tended to show that defendant was
sheriff of Lasalle county, and that, as such, he did, on the ninth
day of February, A. D. 1855, take and carry away the said
hardware and tinware. Defendant offered evidence tending
to prove, that before and at the time of said sale, said Iaskins
was in failing, and that certain creditors (by judgment) had
sued out writs of attachment, as set forth in defendant's special
pleas, against the goods of said Haskins; and that said taking,
complained of in this suit, was the levying of legal process
upon the said property as the property of said Haskins.
Defendant further offered evidence tending to prove that said
sale was made secretly; but several of the plaintiffs' witnesses
stated the sale was not made secretly, but that while the invoice was being made out, people were coming in and out of
the store, as usual; that no steps were taken by any one to
make it known till after said levy; that from the time of the
sale, said Atherton continued to control the goods and the
business as before, and to all appearance was doing so for
Iaskins, as he had done before; that he made sales to customers as formerly, without notice to any one of the change in
proprietors, and in some instances made out the bills and receipts of said sales to customers in the name of Haskins.
That. no change was made in keeping the books; that the
servants and operatives about the store and tin shop continued
to work under the direction of Atherton, with no knowledge
of any sale, and supposing the business was being carried on
as formerly, in the name and for the use of Hiaskins; but it
did-not appear that any of these things were authorized by the
plaintiffs, or known to them. And that this condition and
course of things continued until said goods were seized by said
sheriff on the 9th day of February, 1855.

-DECEMBER TERMI 1857.
Warner v. Yorton et al.

After the evidence was given to the jury, the court charged
as follows, substantially:
1. That the jury must be satisfied, from the evidence, that
the plaintiffs named in the declaration had a joint interest in
the property sued for, or they must find for the defendant.
2. That if the jury believe, from the evidence, the sale was.
made for the purpose of hindering, delaying, or defrauding
creditors, it was invalid as against the defendant.
3. That whether the sale was or was not fraudulent, was a
question of fact, to be determined by the jury under all the
circumstances of the case.
4. That if the sale was secret, and no means taken to apprise the public of the sale, these were facts which threw
suspicion upon the transaction, but did not make the sale
fraudulent in law as against the defendant.
5. That the jury were to determine the facts as to the possession after the sale. If a sale is made by a party, and the
vendor remains in possession, it is ordinarily a badge of fraud,
and requires explanation. But in this case there did not seem
to be any evidence tending to show that the vendor (Haskins)
was in possession after the supposed sale, except that Atherton
retained possession, and as to his possession the jury would
determine. If it was the possession of the plaintiffs, and not
of Haskins, the sale was not necessarily fraudulent.
6. The court declined to charge the jury, that, as a matter
of law under the facts in evidence, the sale was fraudulent as
to the defendant; but left it to the jury to decide whether the
sale was in good faith, and for an honest purpose.
After verdict, a motion for a new trial was overruled. To
which instructions, as then aiven, the defendant's counsel, and
to each severally, then ana there excepted, and also to theoverruling the motion for a new trial.
Exceptions allowed.

THomAS DU

0mmOND.
[seal.]

The case came up upon this exception, and was argued by
M1Tr. Dickey for the plaintiff in error, and M1r. Badger for the
defendants, upon which side there was also a brief by .r.
Badger and Mr. Carlisle.
Mfr. Dickey made the following points:
The question, whether a sale of goods, unaccompanied by
a change of possession, isEgood as against creditors, has been
a vexed question in England and in many of the United States.
The weight of American authority is thought to be against the
validity of suclh sales. See 2 Kent's Com., 515 to 529, where
the subject is fully discussed.

452

SUPREME COURT.
Warner v. Norton et al.

The decisions of the Federal courts are against the validity
of such sales-and this is considered "a settled principle in
Federal jurisprudence." (2 Kent, 521; Hamilton v. Russell,
1 Cranch, 309.)
This sale was made in Illinois, and the Supreme Court of
that State have adopted and adhered to what Chancellor Kent
calls the more wise, sound, wholesome, and true doctrine, and
have held, in Thornton v. Davenport, 1 Scam., 296, that where
possession of goods is permitted to remain with the vendor,
the sale is fraudulent, unless the retaining is consistent with
the deed. The same doctrine is recognised in Powers v.Green,
14 Illinois, 386; so that there is no debate about the law in
that State on this question-the decision of the Supreme Court
of the United States and of the Supreme Court of that State
concurring.
This change of possession, to be effective, must be actual,and
not colorable. (2 Kent Com., 525.)
It must be substantial and exclusive. (2 Kent Com., 518.)
It must be an apparent, open, avowed, notorioug change o
possession. The purpose must not only be honest, but appearances must agree with the real state of the case. (2 Kent Com.,
553; Burrell on Assignments, 303.)
This change of possession must also be continued. If Atherton did agree to hold possession of said goods and conduct said
business for Anderson, he did not in fact do so; and if he violated his duty to Anderson, that is Anderson's misfortune.
Even if Atherton was acting for Anderson in good faith all the
time, still Anderson, by his agent, Atherton, permitted the visible possession to remain in Raskins, and the question for the
jury ought to have been not merely whether this possession of
Atherton was that of Anderson, and not that of Haskins, but
was an apparent, visible, open, avowed, substantial change of
possession effected.
The court held that an actual change of possession was sufficient; but we insist that such change of possession, to be good
against creditors, must be not only actual and bona fide, but
must be apparent,avowed, open, and not secret.
Again: plaintiffs claimed Anderson's title to said goods; and
to show title in themselves, proved that Anderson made the
purchase for James Beman, and for the members of the firm
of torton, Jewett, & Busby.
I Who were the members of this firm? The plaintifs proved
on that subject that Cephas Norton, Albert Jewett, and Benj.
C. Busby, ostensibly constituted 'the firm; and that in preparation for this suit, these ostensible partners told witiiess that
there were special partners, and that John C. Phelps was one

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

458

Warner v. 2Vrton et d.

of these special partners, and a brother of said John 0. was
another special partner.
There was no direct evidence that John L. Phelps or Isaac
N. Phelps were members of the firm-all that was shown on
that subject was, that witness had no personal knowledge, but
supposed the parties to the record were the parties in interest.
This constitutes no evidence at all that John L. Phelps or
Isaac N. Phelps had any interest in the property. It was essential, to maintain the action, for plaintiffs to show that they all
jointly owned the property in question. This point was distinctly made, and yet the court submitted the question to the
jury. This was error.
Whether there is any evidence on a point, is a question of
law for the court. *Whether the evidence is sufficient to convince or satisfy, is a question for the jury. (1st Greenleaf Ev.,
p. 63, sec. 49.)
The court certifies, that although this point was made, it vias
not pressed. We reply, that it was not waived; and when such
a point is distinctly made and overruled, courtesy requires that
it should not be pressed. It is sufficient that it was not waived.
The counsel for the defendants in error made the following
points:
The first instruction to the jury was, that they must be satisfied that the plaintiffs named in the declaration had a joint
interest in the goods, or they should find for the defendant.
This instruction in form is unexceptionable, and, if there
was any evidence of such ownership, was properly given to the
jury. The plaintiff in error, as shown by the record, (p. 19,)
objected to the admissibility of evidence offered for that purpose, but did not insist upon his objection.
Therefore, he cannot raise the objection here; but, on the
contrary, it must be held waived; for, in the case of Walton V.
United States, already cited, the court say: "It is true that the
bill of exceptions states that the evidence was objected to at
the trial; but it is not said that any exception was then taken
to the decision of the court; so that, in fact, it might be true
that the objection was made, and yet not insisted on by way of
exception."
In our case, the record shows that the objection was not insisted on.
Again: in the case of Phelps v. Mayer, already cited, the
court say, in substance, that objections to evidence must be
insisted on by way of exception, for, if thisis done, the opposite party may then supply the defect. (See, also, Hinds's Lessee v. Longworth, 11 Wheaton, 199.)

SUPREME COURT.
Warner v. Norton el al.

Therefore, the objection to the evidence being waived, by
not being insisted upon by way of exception, no objection can
now be made, and therefore there was evidence to be left to
the jury on the point of ownership
But, if there was not, that question cannot be raised upon
an instruction fbrmally right, but must have been specially
presented in the court below; for, in Garrard v. Reynolds's
Lessee, 4 Howard, 123, it was held, that whether there was
evidence to be left to a jury, was a question which could not be
considered by this court, unless the opinion of the court below
had been asked thereon, and an exception regularly taken.
Therefore, in our case the question cannot be here raised.
The substance of all the other instructions is this:
The court having declined tb charge the jury that the sale
was fraudulent in law, left it to.them, under all the circumstances, to say whether the sale ikas or was not made to delay,
hinder, or defraud creditors; telling them that if the sale was
secret, suspicion was thrown upon it thereby, but that it did
not thereby become fraudulent in law; and, leaving them to
decide as to the possession after the sale, instructed them that
if the possession of Atherton was the possession of the plaintiffs, (defendants in error,) the sale was not necessarily fraudulent.
Now, there could be no possible ground for the judge below
declaring the sale void in law. Had Haskins, the vendor, remained in possession, the case would have been like Edwards
and Harben in the King's Bench, and Hamilton and Russell
in this court; but it is certain that Haskins did not personally
have posse-sion after the sale, for he left the town, ceased altogether to reside th :e, and was never there for any purpose
until after the taking of the goods by the plaintiffs in error. It
was proved that an inventory of the goods was taken, the price
agreed upon and paid, the door-key given to the agent of the
defendants in error, and by him delivered to Atherton, the former salesman of Haskins, who undertook to hold for the plaintiffs in error. Here, then, was evidence of - change of possession. All might indeed be illusive and fraudulent; but that
was a question for the jury under all the circumstances of the
case; and until that question was decided, no other than a hypothetical instruction could be given.
And the court did instruct the jury, in effect, that if the possession after the sale was iu Haskins, the sale was necessarily
fraudulent.
To this instruction the plaintiffs in error cannot object,
though the defendants in error,
had
the verdict been against
of complaint.
them, would have had just cause

-DECEMBER TERMT,

1857.

.455

'Warner v. Norton et al.

For if it were necessary to our case, and were allowable for
us to question any decision of this court, we should contend
that the rule laid down in Hamilton v. Russell, (1 Cranch, 310,)
founded upon Edwards v. Harben, in 2 Term Reports, cannot be
supported.- In England, Edwards and Harben has been long
since overruled; first questioned, then impugned, and finally
denied: The cases fullyjustify the position of the very learned
Mr. Smith, in. his Leading Cases, (1 vol., p. 41, of 4 Amer. ed.,)
in these words:

.

"-lt may therefore be safely laid down, that, under almost
any circumstances,'the question, fraud or no fraud, is one for
the consideration of the jury;" and again, page 40: "Though
in Edwards v. Harben it was laid down, in the express terms
above stated, that an absohite sale, without delivery 6f possession, was in point of law fraudulent, the tendency of the courts
has lately been to qualify that doctrine, and 1Lave the whole
circumstances of each case to a jury, bidding them decide
whether the presumption of fraud deducible from the absence
of possession .shall prevail."
And the admission of plaintiff's counsel, (whose interest it
was to maintain the doctrine of Edwards and Harben,) in Wood
r. Dixie, 7 Q. B., 894, is in these words: "Some doubt has existed whether upon certain facts, as, for instance, want of possession, fraud is a question of law to be decided by the court,
or of fact for the jury; but it seems to be now established that
the question is for the jury."
This position of Mr. Smith is further supported by Martindale v. Booth,' 3 B. and Ad., 498, in which Parke, J., says:
"The dictum of Buller, J., in Edwards v. Harben, has not been
generally considered in subsequent cases to have that import.
The want of delivery is only evidence that the transfer was
colorable." It is fully sustained by the numerous cases cited
by him, and especially by Benton v. Thornhill, 2 Mar., 427,
and Latimer v. Batson, 4 Barn. and 0., 652, in the former of
which, Ld. Ch. J. Best dissented from the doctrine of Edwards
v. Harben, when assumed by counsel; and in the latter, the
court notices and in effect repudiates, as furnishing a general
rule, what was said by Lord Ellenborough in Wordall v. Smith,
1 Camp., 332.
(These two cases also show that the question of possession
under the circumstances of our case was for the jury, and. not
for the court, and was therefore properly left 'to them by the
court below.)
It may therefore be assu -.ed with confidence, that the strngent rule laid down in Edwards v. Harben is entirely exploded
in England, and there wart of possession by the vendor is only

456

SUPREME COURT.
Warner v. Norton et al.

a badge of fraud to be considered by the jury. Why should
a rule adopted by this court from Edwards v. Harben be here
maintained, after the foundation of the rule has been utterly
demolished in the country from which it was taken? It does
not terid to expose and defeat fraud, any more than to disappoint an honest purchaser. Every case of real fraud will be
sufficiently reached by making want of possession a badge or
evidence of fraud, according to Twyne's case, whilst an indiscriminating disallowance of all sales which are not followed by
possession must in many cases do injustice.
But whether the rule in Edwards v. Harben be maintained
in all its strictness or not, is in our case immaterial. Here,
possession was taken by the purchaser. It has been so found
by the jury. There was evidence proper to be left to the jury
of that fact; but if there was not such evidence, no objection
can be made therefor, because there was no special prayer for
an instruction that there was not such evidence as required by
this court in the before-cited case of Garrard v. Reynolds's
Lessee, 4 How., 123; and consequently the whole case was
for the jury on the question of fraud.
As to the alleged secrecy of the sale, the court instructed
the jury that secrecy threw suspicion on the transaction, but
did not make it fraudulent in law.
Now, this is giving' to secrecy precisely the effect properly
belonging to it according to Twyne's case, dona elandestin sunt
semper suspiciosa. In Twyne's case, the judges in the Star
Chamber, passing on fact as well as law, gave what effect they
pleased to the suspicious secrecy, with the other circumstances,
in drawing the conclusion to which they came, that the sale
made by Twyne was fraudulent. In our case, the secrecy was
left, with the other circumstances, to the jury, to draw the inference which upon the whole evidence was in their judgment
just. No exception can be taken to this, for secrecy has never
been by any judicial decision withdrawn from the place it
occupies amongst the other signs or badges of fraud, and dignified, like want of possession, with an unexplainable and resistless legal effect.
Of course, the exception for error in the refusal to grant a
new trial is merely idle, after the decisions of this court in
Marine Insurance Company of Alexandria v. Hodgson, 6 Cr.,
206; Barr v. Grat's Heirs, 4 Wheat., 213; and Blount's Lessee
v. Smith, 7 Wheat., 248.

Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is brought before us by a writ of error from the
northern district of Illinois.

DECEMBER.TERM, 1857.

, 457

Warner v. NKorton et al.

An action of trespass was commenced by Norton et al. against
Warner, charging him with having seized and carried away
personal property of the value of ten thousand dollars. The
defendant pleaded not guilty, and by several special pleas set
up that certain creditors of Augustus A. Haskins, who had
left his residence at Lasalle, procured a writ of attachment,
under the statutes of Illinois, which was directed to the defendant, as sheriff, in virtue of which he attached the personal
property of Haskins, which.is the trespass charged, &c.
The bill of exceptions taken on the trial will show the points
of law which were. made on the facts. The proof of the plaintiffs tended to show that Beman, one of the plaintiffs, had a
claim as creditor against Haskins for the sum of twelve hundred dollars, and that the firm of Norton, Jewett, & Busby,
had also a claim of about three thousand dollars; that each of
these claims had been put into the hands of one Anderson for
collection, with authority to settle them; that on the 10th of
January, 1855, the goods were chiefly in a hardware store-room,
and the tin shop attached thereto, in the village of Lasalle;
that up to that time Haskins had been carrying on the business of a hardware retailer and manufacturer of tin ware; that
while he was absent the business was conducted by one Atherton, his head clerk, who employed the operatives and superintended their work; that on the 10th of January, 1855, Haskins
sold his stock to Beman, and the firm of Norton, Jewett, &
Busby, through Anderson as their agent, Anderson cancelling
the aforesaid debts, and giving his notes on time to Haskins for
the balance of the price agreed upon; and thereupon, by way
of putting the purchaser into possession, Haskins, Anderson,
and Atherton, being in the store-room, Haskins got the key
of the outer door, and gave it to Anderson, and Anderson gave
the key and charge of the store and tin shop to Atherton, who,
upto that time had been carrying on the business for Haskins,
but then undertook to act for Anderson.
Anderson and Haskins left Lasalle, and did not return until
after the attachment was laid on the goods. Haskins never
returned to reside there, .and exercised no ownership over the
goods after the sale. Norton, Jewett, & Busby, were the ostensible partners of their firm, but they informed Anderson that
John C. Phelps and his brother were special partners. There
was no further evidence to show the interest of the Phelpses,
except the belief of the witness that they were parties, though
he-could-not so state from his own personal knowledge. An
objection to this defect of proof was made, but not insisted on.
The plaintiffs' proof further tended to show that the sheriff,
on the 9th of February, 1855, did take property attached, and

458

SUPREME COURT.
Warner v. Xorton et 41.

removed it; and evidence was offered to show that, before and
at the time of said sale, Haskins was in failing circumstances,
and that certain creditors had sued out writs of attachment, as
set forth in defendants' special pleas, against the goods of said
Haskins, and that the taking of the property complained of
was by legal process.
Defendant offered further evidence, tending to prove that
said sale was made secretly, but several of the plaintiffs' witnesses stated the sale was not made secretly, and that, while
the invoice was being made out, people were coming in and
going out of the store as usual; that no steps were taken by
any one to make the sale known until after the attachment
was laid; that from the time of the sale, Atherton continued
to control the ooods and the business as before, and to all appearance was oing so for Haskins; that sales were made to
customers as formerly, without notice to any one of the change
of proprietors, and, in some instances, the bills and receipts
of sales to customers were made out in the name of Iaskins.
No change was made in keeping the books; that the servants
and operatives about the store and tin shop continued to work
under the direction of Atherton, with no knowledge of any
sale, and supposing the business was being carried on as formerly, and for the use of Haskins; but it did not appear that
any of these things were authorized by the plaintiffs or known
to them; and that this condition and course of things continued
until the goods were seized by the sheriff.
After the testimony was closed, the court charged the jury:
First, they must be satisfied, from the evidence, that the plaintiffs named in the declaration had a joint interest in the property sued for, or they must find for the defendant.
The jury found for the plaintiffs; which shows they were
satisfied with the evidence on the point made, or considered
the objection abandoned. If it were not insisted on in the
court below, it cannot be raised here. There is no error in
this charge of the court.
The second, third, and fourth charges were, "that if the
jury believe from the evidence the sale was made for the purpose of hindering, delayin, or defrauding creditors, it was invalid as against the defendant; and that whether the sale was
or was not fraudulent was a question of fact, to be determined
by the jury under all the circumstances of the case. That if
the sale were secret, and no means taken to apprise the public
of it, these were facts which threw suspicion upon the transaction, but did not make the sale fraudulent in law as against
the defendant."
It is insisted that the sale was void as matter of law against

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

459

Warner v. .Norton et al.

creditors, and should have been so held by the court; and the
case of Hamilton v. Russell, 1 Cranch, 310, 1 Curtis, 415, is
cited as sustaining this position. In that case, Hamilton made
an absolute bill of sale for a slave on the 4th of January, 1800,
which was acknowledged and recorded on the 14th of April,
1801. The slave continued in the possession of the vendor
until an execution was levied on him as the property of
the, vendor. Trespass was brought against the plaintiff in
the execution, who directed the levy to be made. The
court held, under the statute of Virginia against frauds,
that an absolute bill of sale, unless possession "accompanies
and follows" the deed, is fraudulent; and the case of Edwards
v. Harben, 2 Term Rep., 587, was cited. It is admitted that
the statute is in affirmance of the common law.
In his 3d volume of Commentaries, Chancellor Kent has an
interesting chapter on this subject, in which the case of Edwards v. Harben, and many other authorities, are cited; and
he favors the doctrine, that unless the possession of goods follows the deed, it is fraudulent per se. But he states many
exceptions to this rule, as where the possession of the vendor
is consistent with the deed or the circumstances of the case.
An he says, in Steward v. Lambe, 1 Brod. and Bing., 506,
the court of C. B. questioned very strongly the general doctrina in Edwards v. Harben, that actual possession was necessary to transfer the property in a chattel, and the authority
itself was shaken. And he observes, the conclusion from the
more recent English cases would seem to be, that though a
continuance in possession by the vendor be primafacie a badge
of fraud, yet the presumption of fraud may be rebutted by explanations.
In the case of Wood v. Dixie, 7 Q. B., 894, the counsel, who
was interested in maintaining the doctrine of Edwards v. Harben, admitted that "some doubt has existed whether upon
certain facts, as, for instance, want of possession, fraud is a
question of law to be decided by the court, or of fact for the
jury; but it seems to be now established that the question is
for the jury." In Martindale v. Booth, 3 B. and Ad., 498,
Parke, Justice, says, the dictum of Buller, Justice, in Edwards
v. Harben, has not been considered in subsequent cases to have
that import; the want of delivery is only evidence that the
transfer was colorable. In Benton v. Thornbell, 2 Marsh.,
427; Lattimer v. Batspn, 4 Barn. and Cress., 652; the same
doctrine is laid down. In the more modern English cases, the
stringent doctrine of Edwards v. Harben has been departed
from; and the want of possession of chattels purchased is considered evidence of fraud before the jury. In Kidd v. Rawlin-

SUPREME COURT.
Warner v. Norton et al.

son, 2 Bas. and Pull.,. 59, Lord Eldon admitted that a bill of
sale of goods might be taken as a security on a loan of money,
and the goods fairly and safely left with the debtor. And this
decision conformed to Lord Holt's view, in Cole v. Davis, 1
Lord Raymond, 724; and Lord Eldon, many years afterwards,
declared, in Lady Arundell v. Phipps, 10 Ver,, 145, that possession of goods by the vendor was only prima facie evidence
of fraud. In Eastwood v. Brown, 1 Ryan and Moody, Lord
Tenterden held, want of possession was only prima fade evidence of fraud.
It would seem to be difficult, on principle, to maintain that
the possession of goods sold is, per se, fraud, to be so pronounced by the court, as that cuts off all explanation of the
transaction, which may have been entirely unexceptionable.
If circumstances, at law, may be proved to rebut the presumption of fradd, the case must be submitted to the jury.
But the case before us is not similar to that of Hamilton v.
Russell. There was a change of possession in the goods purchased by Anderson, by the delivery to him of the key of the
outer door of the storehouse, which he delivered to Atherton,
who had agreed to continue in the business as the agent of the
purchasers. From the time of the purchase, Haskins had no
possession of the property, nor did he exercise any acts of
ownership over it. He was absent from Lasalle from the time
of the sale until after the attachment was laid.
Now, whether this was a colorable delivery or not, was a matter of fact for the jury, and not a matter of law for the co-irt.
It is clearly not within the case of Hamilton v. Russell.
Few questions in the law have given rise to a greater conflict of authority than the one under consideration. But for
many years past the tendency has been, in England and in the
United States, to consider the question of fraud as a fact for
the jury under the instruction of the court. And the weight
of authority seems to be now, in this country, favorable to this
position. Where possession of goods does not accompany the
deed, it is primafacie fraudulent, but open to the circumstances
of the transaction, which may prove an innocent purpose. But
if such explanation may be given, it is a departure from the
stringent rule in the case of Edwards v. Harben.
It is urged that the fourth instruction is erroneous, as the
jury were told, though the sale was secret, and no means taken
to make it public, it was not fraudulent in law against the
defendant. Whilst in the old cases it was held that the possession .of the vendor ,of goods sold was frauduleiit against
creditors, no case, it is believed, has been so held by the court
on the alone ground of secrecy in making the contract. It is

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

461

Stinson v. Dousman.

a circumstance connected with other facts from which fraud
may be inferred. But if the secrecy supposed amounted to
absolute fraud, yet the court could not have so pronounced in
this case, as there'was evidence controverting the supposition
of secrecy, which the court could not properly take from the
consideration of the jury.
The fifth and sixth charges were, that the jury were to determine the facts as to the possession after the sale; and that,
if a sale is made by a party; and the vendor remains in possession, it is ordinarily a badge of fraud, and requires explanation; and under the sixth they left the case to the jury, to
determine whether the sale was in good faith and for an honest
purpose; which instructions were, as we think, correct, aid in
accordance with the general doctrine on the subject.
A decision on a motion for a.new trial, being addressed to
the discretion of the court, is no ground for a writ of error.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is affirmed.

JAMES STINSON, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V.

HERCULES L. DusmAN.

Where there was a covenant to sell laud upon condition that the purchase-money
should be paid in instalments, and other acts done by the covenantee, in failure
to perform which, rent was to be charged, and the covenantee failed to execute
his contract, the rent was justly chargeable.
The Territory of Minnesota having abolished the court of chancery, the excuses
of the defendant must be judged of as if it was a case in chancery, the statute
having so directed. But in this case, time would be held to be an essential
consideration inthe contract by a court of equity, and the excuses for non-performance are insufficient.
The equitable as well as legal considerations being involved in the case, and the
amount of property large, this court can take jurisdiction, although the amount
of rent is less than one thousand dollars.

THis case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Supreme
Court of the Territory of Minnesota.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Cooper for the plaintiff in error, and
Mr. Cushing and Mr. Gillet for the defendant.
The principal question in the case was, whether or not time
was of the essence of this contract as to the payment of the
first instalment. -Uponthis point, the counsel for the plaintiff
in error admitted.that:-','While time is material, it was not so far of, the essf.nce of
such a contract as this, as to authorize Dousman to declare it,
void, especially when it wAs manifest that there was neither

