DECEMBER TERM, 1857.
McCargo v. Chapman.

the District to the Supreme Court, on an interlocutory order
affecting the merits. (Stat. Minn., p. 414, sec. 7.) It was,
therefore, properly taken to the Supreme Court of the Territory; but that practice cannot govern this court in revising the
judgments of the court below in this court.
We have rarely in our experience examined a case, which in
its principles is common and readily understood,, so complicated and confused by the mode of pleading which has been
pursued, and which it is understood is in conformity with the
system adopted in this Territory. The pleadings raise many
immaterial and even trivial questions of fact and law, which
have nothing to do with the substantial merits of the case, and
seem, in practical operation, whatever may be the system in
theory, to turn the attention of courts and counsel to small
matters as of serious import, which are undeserving a moment's
consideration, overlooking or disregarding the most material
and controlling questions involved.
The demurrers are put in to detached statements in the answer, the statements thus demurred to loosely made, and often
incongruous in themselves, and upon which no principle of
law can-be raised or applied to govern the decision.
, The system is anomalous, and involves the absurd and impracticable experiment of attempting to administer commonlaw remedies-'under civil-law modes of pleading, and these very
much perplexed and complicated by emendations and additions.
The case must be dismissed for want of jurisiiction, there
being no final judgment in the court below..

THOMAS MCOARGO, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JiHN L. CnAPAN.
An order of'the Circuit Court to quash an execution, is not such a judgment as
can be reviewed in this court y a writ of error.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error,. from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the southern district of Missis-

sippi..

The facts of the case are set forth in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Bradley for the plaintiff in error, and
by ir. Badger for the defendant, upon which side there was
also a brief by $!r. Badger and Mr. Carlisle.
Mr. Justice McLEAT delivered the opinion.of the court.
This case is brought before us by a writ of error to the Circuit Court for the southern district of Mississippi.
.

556

SUPREME COURT.
fcCargo v. Chapman

On the 14th of May, 1855, the defendant moved to quash an
execution issued in the above case, on two grounds: first, because the same issued more than seven years after a prior execution; second, because the same issued more than seven
years after the return of the last preceding execution, in said
cause.
On this motion the defendant read to the court the record
of the judgment in the Circuit Court, which was entered for
the sum of twenty-one hundred and nine dollars, and costs;
on which an execution was issued the 15th of June, 1843, and
was returned, no property found; and afterwards, an alias ft.
fa. was issued, the 20th of April, 1855, which was levied on
lots 3 and 6, section 35, township 14, range 6 west, as the
property of the defendant, which was not sold for want of
time.
It appeared that no other execution ever issued upon the
above judgment, and the court sustained the motion and
quashed the execution, to which an exception was taken.
This writ of error is intended to bring before us the question,
whether the motion to quash the execution was properly sustained. A preliminary question, however, arises, whether a
writ of error can be maintained, on the decision of the above
motion.
The judiciary act of 1789 authorizes this court to revise final
judgments by a writ of error. And this court say, in Toland
v. Sprague, 12 Curtis, 734, that a decision of the court upon a
rule or motion is not of that character. And in Boyle v.
Zacharie, 10 Curtis, the court say: "In modern times, courts
of law exercise a summary jurisdiction, upon motion, over executions, and quash them, without putting a party to his writ
of audita querela; but these motions are addressed to the sound
discretion of the court, and their refusal is not a ground for a
writ of error." In Mountz v. Hodgson, 2 Cuirtis, 124, it is
said: "A refusal of the court below to quash the execution on
motion, is, by some of the judges, supposed notto be ajudgment
to which a writ of error will lie. Others are of opinion that a
writ of error will lie to that decision of the court; but that the
writ of error is not to the judgment of the Circuit Court, but
to that of the justices." In the case of Early v. Rogers et aL.,
16 How., 599, it is said: "Whether a court will quash an execution on account of proceedings against the debtor, as the
garnishee of the creditor, is a question appdaling to the discretion of the court below, and a court of error cannot revise
its decision thereon."
In Brooks v. Hunt, 17 John., 484, a motion was made to the
Supreme Court of New York-to set aside afterifacias, on the

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

557

Mc~argo v. Chapman.

ground tht the party was discharged under the insolvent laws
of the State. The court refused the motion; and, on error
brought, the court of errors of NTew York quashed the
writ of error., Mfi. Chancellor Rent, on behalf of the court,
assigned as one of the grounds of quashing the writ of error,
that the rule or order denying the' motion was not a judgment within the meaning of the Constitution or laws of NIew
York.
And yet it is said in Co. Litt., 288, b, that a writ of error
lieth when a man is grieved by an error in the foundation,
proceeding, judgment, or execution in a. suit. But it is
added in the same authority, '!without a judgment, or an
award in the nature of a judgrment,. no writ of error doth
lie." And the. court say, in tle case of Boyle v. Zacharie,
*"If, therefore, there is 4n erroneous award of execution,,
not warranted by the judgment, or erroneous proceedings
under the execution, a writ of error will lie to redress the
grievance.','
Whatever discrepancies may be found in decisions on this
suibject, we think a writ of error will not lie on any judgment,
•under the act of 1789, which is not final, in whatever form it
shall be given. This may be illustrated by the case before us. "
In this case, the Circuit Court quashed the execution; and, by
a writ of error, We are called on to revise that decision. What
will be the effect of an affirmance? May not the Circuit Court
issue another execution on the same judgment? In short, is
the action of the Circuit Court final as to anything except the
particular motion before it? May it not be followed by another motion of the same import? If the writ of error may
be allowed to one party, it cannot be denied to the other. Aid
to what motions shall it be limited?
It has uniformly been held that error will not lie, without a
statutory provision, on a motion for a new trial, to amend the
pleadings, or any other motion which depends upon the'discretion of the court.
If, in the language of this court in Boyle v. Zacharie, an execution shoulde.issued not authorized -by the judgment, the
court, on motion, would Set it aside or quash it; and should it
refuse to do so, a mandamus would seem to be the proper.
remedy. It is a writ which may be issued to inferior courts
and magistrates, to require them to execute that justice which
the party is entitled to, and which, by law, they are enjoined
to do, and wherelthere is no other remedy.
This writ of error is dismissed, for want of jurisdiction.

