54

SUPREME COURT.
Hudgins et al. v. Kemp.

ELLIOTT W. HUDGINS AND JOHN L. HUDGINS, APPELLANTS,
WYNDHAM KEMP,
HUDGINS.

V.

ASSIGNEE IN'BANKRUPTCY OF JOHN L.

In this case, as in the preceding, no exceptions having been taken in tthe court
below to a master's report respecting rents and profits, the questions cannot be
decided by this court.

THIS was a branch of the preceding case, was argued -by the
same counsel, and included within the same principles.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the6court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Coirt of the
United States for the eastern district of Virginia.
The bill was filed by the assignee of the bankrupt, J. L.
Hudgins, as in the preceding case, against E. W. Hudgins, a
son, to set aside two deeds of conveyance of laids, as executed
and delivered by the bankrupt to hinder and delay creditorsone dated 6th September, 1839, conveying three hundred acres
lying in the county of York; the other dated 1st March, 1842,
conveying, by estimation, seven hundred acres, in the same
county-the latter for the consideration of $3,000. This deed
was made a few days after the one set aside in the case of the
assignee against Robert Hudgins. The case depends upon
substantial4y the same evidence. Portions of it, tending to
connect this defendant with the conduct of the grantor, in conveying away his property in fraud of his creditors, as respects
the deed of the 1st March, 1842, are, if possible, somewhat
stronger than that in the preceding case.
The court, on the 18th May, 1843, decreed that the deed
was fraudulent and void, and that the assignee in bankruptcy
take possession of the property a" receiver; and, fitrther, that
the deed of the 6th September, 1839, was not made in fraud
of creditors, but was valid as against the complainant. The
court also directed an account of the rents and profits, from
the time of the petition in bankruptcy to the time of the receiver taking possession. The master subsequently reported
rents and profits to the amount of $659.72; and on the 27th
June, 1855, a final decree was entered.
The court decreed that the defendant, Elliott W. Hudgins,
pay to the complainant $659.72, with interest from 2d June,
1848; and that, if the proceeds of the property directed to be
sold in the case of the plaintiff against Robert Hudgins and
others, should not be sufficient to satisfy the debts proved
against the bankrupt, then the plaintiff is authorized to sell
the lands in question, as particularly specified and directed in
the said decree.

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

55

Brown v. Shannon et al.

The only question arising on the master's Teport in this case,
and the decree, in pursuance thereof; is, that the rents and
profits should not have been charged prior to the decree in
bankruptcy. The answer to this objection is, that no such
exception was taken to the report, and cannot, therefore, be
noticed here. The case, in all its essential parts, falls within
the views presented in the preceding one of this plaintiff
against Robert Hudgins and others, and must abide the like
result.
The decree of the court below is affirmed.

ISAAc

BIowN, APPELLANT, V. JOSEPH P. SHANNON ET AL.

Where a bill is filed to enforce the specific execution of a contract in relation to
the use of a patent right,.this court has no appellate jurisdiction, unless the matter in'controversy exceeds two thousand dollars.
The jurisdiction, where the bill is founded upon a contract, differs materially from
the jurisdiction on a bill to prevent the infringement of the monopoly of the
patentee, or of these claiming under him by legal assignments, and to protect them
in their rights to the exclusive use.
"
-is awardedis no evidence of the
The penalty of the bond taken, when an injn-"
amount or value in dispute.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of Maryland.
The -case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr.Schley for the appellant, and submitted
on a printed argument by Mr. Latrobe and .Ir. Gwinn for
the defendants.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the- opinion of the
court.

I This is an appeal from the decree of the Circuit Court for
the district of Maryland. . "
The bill was filed by Joseph P. Shannon & Company,
Gelston & Matthews, Lapouraille & Maughlin, and Griffiss &
Cate, who composed four different partnership firms in the
city of Baltimore, separately engaged in the business of
planing, who all joined in the bill of complaint against Brown,
the appellant, praying that he might be enjoined from the use
of. certain planing machines, mentioned in the bill, in the city
of Baltimore. Upon the hearing, a perpetual injunction was
granted accordingly, and from that decree this appeal was
taken.
From the manner in which the bill is framed, there i. some.

