SUPREME COURT.
Hlolcombe v. AcKusick et al.

tow-boat fail, which in the least conduced to the disaster. The
Crescent City was wholly in fault, and the decree for the damages suffered by the Ocean Queen should have been against the
colliding boat. The decree of the Circuit Court is therefore
reversed, and the cause is remanded to that court, with directions to enter a decree for the above damage against the Mail
Steamship Company, their sureties, &c., and also the sum of
two hundred and eight dollars and ninety-seven cents for the
damage done to the tow-boat, and also for costs.

WILLIAM HOLCOMBE, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JoHN McKusIcK,
JONATHAx E. McKusicK, CHRISTOPHER CARLE, HORACE K.
McKINSTRY, ELIAS McLEAN, AND JOSEPH1 C. YORK.
Where there was a demurrer to some parts of a replication, and a motion to strike
out other parts, still leaving in the replication some essential allegations, a judgment upon the demurrer and motion to strike out was not such a final judgment
as can be reviewed by this court.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Supreme
Court of the Territory of Minnesota.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr.Bradley for the plaintiff in error, upon
which side there was also a brief filed by Mr. Brisbin and Mr.
Stevens, and by Mr. Gashing and Mr. Gillet for the defendants.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Minnesota.
The suit in the court below was brought to recover damages
for wrongfully entering the plaintiff's dwelling-house at Stillwater, Minnesota Territory, and doing great injury to the same,
removing it from its foundations, damaging and destroying the
personal property therein, &c.
The defendants, in their answer, set forth an act of the Legislature of the Territory of Minnesota, incorporating the city
of Stillwater, and conferring upon the municipal authorities
the usual powers for the well government of the inhabitants
thereof; the organization of the government of the city under
its charter, and the election of its officers, and, among others,
that one of the defendants, J. E. McKusick, was elected marshal. The answer set forth, also, an ordinance passed by the
city council, in pursuance of authority given by the charter,
which, among other things, provided for the removal of ob-

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

553

Hfolcombe v. NcKusick et al.

structions in the public streets and landing places, and conferred authority upon the marshal to remove such obstructions.
The answer then sets forth that the plaintiff's dwelling was
erected upon Main street in the city, and obstructed the free
use of the same, and had become a public nuisance; and that
the marshal removed the said obstruction, in pursuance of the
authority conferred upon -him by the ordinance, which is the
act complained of by the plaintiff; and that the other defendants were called in to his assistance in the performance of this
duty. The answer then denies the special damage set up in the
complaint.
The plaintiff, in reply to the new matter set forth in the
answer, denies, according to the formula prescribed by the Minnesota. code, the existence of the charter of the city of Stillwater, set forth in the answer, and avers' that no act of incorporation was ever published, as prescribed by the laws of the
Territory. The plaintiff then sets out at large a charter of the
city, which was published according to law; denies the election of the municipal authorities under the charter, also the
existence of any city ordinance passed by the city council; and
the election of the defendant, McKusick, his qualification in
the office, or that he ever entered upon his duties. The plaintiff also denies that his dwelling-house was erected on Main
street, or that it obstructed the same.
There is also a long statement respecting the title to the
land embraced within the corporate limits of Stillwater, which
it is not material to set forth. The plaintiff further denies
that, in making the removal of the dwelling-house, the defendants used proper care and caution to prevent unnecessary damage.
The defendants have demurred to all that portion of the reply which commences with denying the existence of the act of
incorporation of the city of Stillwater, and including the chartef set forth in the answer. They demur also to the allegation
in the answer, stating that the dwelling-house was erected prior
to the 12th day of September, 1848; and, also, to all that part
of the answer relating to the title to the land embraced within
the city of Stillwater.
The defendants also made a motion to strike out certain portions of the reply, which was granted, but it is not material to
notice the portions particularly.
The District Court 6f the Territory sustained the demurrer
of the defendants to the portions of the plaintiff's reply above
referred to, with leave to the plaintiff to amend. No amendment having been made; judgment upon the demurrer was
made absolute, with costs. An appeal was taken to-the Su-

554

SUPREME COURT.
Holcombe v.

cKusick et ai.

preme Court of the Territory, where the judgment below was
affirmed, with costs. The case is now here on a writ of error
to this court.
The portions of the reply demurred to, aild also those
stricken out on motion, must be regarded as disposed of, and
it will be necessary to look at those portions left, which have
neither been demurred to nor stricken out, and therefore remain unanswered. One portion of the reply in this predicament is as follows: "And the plaintiff denies that the said
dwelling-house obstructed Main street, in the city of Stillwater, or that the same was kept or maintained as a public nuisance."
Another is, a denial of the existence of the ordinance of the
city council of Stillwater, conferring authority upon the marshal to remove obstructions in the public streets; also a denial
that the defendant, J. E. McKusick, was elected marshal, or
had qualified as such; and, further, a denial by the plaintiff of
the allegation in the answer, that the removal of the dwellinghouse was made, doing no unnecessary damage, &c.
All these matters, in reply to Allegations in the answer, constitute issues of fact upon the record, undisposed of; and it is
quite clear, until disposed of in favor of the defendants, the
plaintiff would be entitled to recover. They put in issue the
authority of the defendants to remove the dwelling-house, which
is set up in the answer; and also present a case, in which, if
the general authority to remove obstructions from streets existed, it would not protect the defendants, as the dwellinghouse was not within the limits of the street as claimed; also,
if within it, unnecessary force was used, and unnecessarydamage done to the building in the act of removal.
On the trial before the jury, the defendants would be obliged
to meet these several issues, and maintain the allegations in
their answer, before they would be entitled to a verdict, as either
of them, if found for the plaintiff, would have displaced the
justification set up in the answer.
The whole of the cause, therefore, in the court below, was
not disposed of, and no final judgment rendered, upon which a
writ of error from this court would lie. It is the settled practice of this court, and the same in the King's Bench in England, that the writ will not lie until the whole of the matters
in controversy in the suit below are disposed of. The writ
itself is conditional, and does not authorize the court below to
send up the case, unless-all the matters between the parties to
the record have been determined. The cause is not to be sent
up in fragments. (11 How., 32; 21 Wend., 667.)
The statutes of Minnesota have provided for an appeal from

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.
McCargo v. Chapman.

the District to the Supreme Court, on an interlocutory order
affecting the merits. (Stat. Minn., p. 414, sec. 7.) It was,
therefore, properly taken to the Supreme Court of the Territory; but that practice cannot govern this court in revising the
judgments of the court below in this court.
We have rarely in our experience examined a case, which in
its principles is common and readily understood,, so complicated and confused by the mode of pleading which has been
pursued, and which it is understood is in conformity with the
system adopted in this Territory. The pleadings raise many
immaterial and even trivial questions of fact and law, which
have nothing to do with the substantial merits of the case, and
seem, in practical operation, whatever may be the system in
theory, to turn the attention of courts and counsel to small
matters as of serious import, which are undeserving a moment's
consideration, overlooking or disregarding the most material
and controlling questions involved.
The demurrers are put in to detached statements in the answer, the statements thus demurred to loosely made, and often
incongruous in themselves, and upon which no principle of
law can-be raised or applied to govern the decision.
, The system is anomalous, and involves the absurd and impracticable experiment of attempting to administer commonlaw remedies-'under civil-law modes of pleading, and these very
much perplexed and complicated by emendations and additions.
The case must be dismissed for want of jurisiiction, there
being no final judgment in the court below..

THOMAS MCOARGO, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JiHN L. CnAPAN.
An order of'the Circuit Court to quash an execution, is not such a judgment as
can be reviewed in this court y a writ of error.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error,. from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the southern district of Missis-

sippi..

The facts of the case are set forth in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Bradley for the plaintiff in error, and
by ir. Badger for the defendant, upon which side there was
also a brief by $!r. Badger and Mr. Carlisle.
Mr. Justice McLEAT delivered the opinion.of the court.
This case is brought before us by a writ of error to the Circuit Court for the southern district of Mississippi.
.

