DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

59

United Statea v. Cambuston.

TE

UNrrIED STATES, APPELLANTS,

v. Hl=RY

CAMBUSTON.

The regulations for the colonization of the Territories of the Government of Mexico,
made 21st November, 1828, in pursuance of the act of the General Congress,
August 18, 1824, provided: 1st. That the Governors of the Territories should
be empowered to grant vacant lands, among others, to private persons who may
ask for them, for the purpose of cultivating and inhabiting the same. 2d. That
every person soliciting lands shall address to the Governor a petition, expressing
his name, country, and religion, and desciibing as distinctly as possible, by means
of a map, the land asked for. 3d. The Governor shall proceed.to obtain the
necessary information, whether the petition contains the proper conditions required by the law of the 18th August, 1824, both as regards the land and the petitioner, in order that the application may be at once attended to; or, if it be
preferred, the municipal authority may be,cornsulted, whether there be any objection to the making of the grant. 4th. This being done, the Governor will.
accede or not to such petition, in conformity to the laws on the subject. 5th.
The definitive grant asked for being made, a document, signed by the Governor,
shall be given, to serve as a title to the party interested, wherein it must be
stated that the grant is. made in exact conformity with the provisions of the
law; in virtue of which, possession shall be given. 6th. The necessary record
shall be kept, in a book provided for the purpose, of all the petitions presented
and grants.made, with maps of the lands granted, and a circumstantial report
shall be forwarded quarterly to the Supreme Government.
Where there was no evidence, with respect to a grant of land in California, that
any one of these preliminary steps had been taken, this court cannot confirm
the claim.
The decisions of this court in cases of claims to land in Louisiana and Floiida are
not applicable where precise and. recent regulations exist, directing the manner
in -which land shall be granted.
/
There are also strong grounds of suspicion with respect to the bona fides of the
grant in question; but as the claimant iay not have had an opportunity of pro-'
ducing evidence in the court below, the case will be: remanded to that court for
further proceedings.

Tnis was an appeal from the District Court of the UnitedStates for the northern district of California, which affirmed a
decree of the land commissioners in favor of a grant of land to
Cambuston.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Afr. Back (Attorney General) for the
United States, and .Mr. . 3Mason Camrpbell for the appellee.
1.r. Black made the following points:
1. Assuming the paper on which the claim' is based to be
genuine, it is, nevertheless, void and worthless, for.*ant of a
petition and inquiry.
2. The grant is inoperative, for want of evidence that it was
delivered while the Governor had power to make it.'
3. Thegraiit is fraudulent, fctitious, and simulated..
Hkr. Cam'pbell's points were the f6llowing:
1. That the grant itself is evidence, as of the power of Pico

60

SUPREME COURT.
United Statem v. Cambuston.

to make it, so also of the observance by him of all the necessary preliminaries, and that there is no proof to the contrary.
(United States v. Peralta, 19 How., 347; United States v. Arredondo, 6 Pet., 729, 731; United States v. Delassus, 9 Pet.,
134; Minter v. Crommelin, 18 How., 88; Bagnell v. Broderick,
13 Pet., 44.8.)
2. That the possession of the grant is evidence of its delivery to the grantee by Pico, and the presumption of law is that
such delivery was made when
it might be lawfully, and that
there is no evidence to the contrary.
3. That the absence of an approval by the Departmental Assembly, or of a survey, &c., will not defeat the grant. (United
States v. Fremont, 17 How., 560; United States v. Reading,
18 How., 7; United States v. Cruz Cervantes, 18 How., 553,
United States v. Vaca, 18 How., 556; United States v. Larkin,
18 How., 563.)
4. As no allegation of fraud was made, either before the
commissioners or before the District Court, it cannot be entertained in this court, though, if entertained, the circumstances of the case conclusively show the fairness of the transaction. (United States v. Larkin, 18 How., 557.)
Mr. Jiustice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the District Court of the
United States for the northern district of California, affirming
a decree of the land commissioners.
The claimant below gave in evidence the following document, purporting to be a grant of a large tract of land on the
upper waters of the Sacramento river, from a Mexican Governor of California, dated 23d May, 1846:
Pio Pico, Constitutional Governor of the Department of
California:
Whereas Mr. Henry Cambuston has petitioned, for his own
personal advantage, for a tract of unoccupied land in the valley of the Sacramento, joining on the north to Antonio Osio,
on the south Mr. Sutter, on the east Mr. Flugge, and on the
southwest the river Sacramento-the investigations being previously Ulade according to the custom, and in conformity with
the law of the 18th of August, 1824, and the regulations of
the 21st of November, 1828-in virtue of the powers which
have been conferre.d on me, in the name of the Mexican nation,
I grant the traft of land expressed, lying out of the boundaries
of the before-mentioned landholders, declaring it his estate by
the present letters, provided it shall be approved by the extreme Departmental Assembly, and under the following conditions:

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

61

U tited.States v. Cambwton.

1st. ie may, without prejudice to the crossings, roads, or
attendances, fence it, enjoying it freely and exclusively, devoting it to any use or cultivation, as best may suit his convenience.
2d. When the title shall be confirmed, he shall demand of
the respective judge judicial possession of it, by virtue of this
despatch, by which the boundaries shall be designated with
the necessary landmarks.
3d. The claim of land, for which this grant. is made, has an
.area of eleven square leagues of pasture, if there is that outside
of the property of the others, whose boundaries are to be respected; and if there should not be, the grantee shall -be satisfied with that which remains.
The judge who gives possession shail cause it to be surveyed
according to the ordinance, leaving the residue for the convenient uses of the nation.
Consequently, I command that he hold the present title as
t'ue and valid.
It shall be recorded in the respective book, and be delivered
to the party interested, for his security and other uses.
Given in the city of Los Angeles, on this common paper,.
for want of sealed, on the 23d day of May, 1846.
(Signed)
PIo Pico.
(Signed)
JosE MATIAS MORENO.
This document was deposited, by the claimant, with Edward
Canbey, Assistant Adjutant General of the Army of the United
States, on the 10th July, 1850, who at that time had charge at
Monterey of the Government archives. These archives have
since been transferred to the office of the Surveyor General,
kept at San Francisco. There is no evidence in the case that
it was ever seen in or out of the possession of the claimant,
from its date (23d May, 1846) down to- the time of depositing
it, as above mentioned, except that derived from one witness,
who appears to have been interested in-the grant, and whose
testimony, therefore, mtst be laid out of the case. Although
the document in terms directs that it shall be recorded in the
proper book of records, no record of the same was given in
evidence, nor its absence accounted for. It recites, in the
usual way, that the claimant had presented to the Governor a
petition for a grant of the land, and also that the customary
examinations had been made into the circumstances and fitness of making the grant to the petitioner. No petition was
produced at the trial, nor any report by. any officer as to the
reasons and propriety of conceding the tract asked for, nor
any evidence accounting for the non-production of either.

62

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Cambu tan.

The case stands, so far as the claim of title is concerned,
upon the naked document itself, purporting to be a donation
of the eleven square leagues of land, together with evidence
tending to establish its genuineness, and slight proof in respect to the possession of the tract.
The original document was not produced either before the
commissioners or the District Court, and the only proof of its
genuineness was the testimony of two witnesses who had seen
the signatures of Governor Pico and the Secretary Moreno,
on file at the Surveyor General's office. One of them (Crosby)
says he believes the signature of Pico to be genuine, but
has no knowledge of the handwriting of Moreno; the other,
(Castro,) that he knows the' signatures of both Pico and
Moreno, and that they are genuine. There is another witness,
(Morenhont,) who says that he had' seen Moreno write once,
and had corresponded with him; and that, so far as he can
judge, it is his genuine signature. This witness, however,
cannot be relied on, as he is the person interested in the claim.
The regulations for the colonization of the territories of
the Government of Mexico, made 21st November, 1828, in
pursuance of the act of the General Congress, August 18,
1824, provided: 1st. That the Governors of the territories
should be empowered to grant vacant lands, among others, to
private persons who may ask for them, for the purpose of cultivating and inhabiting the same. 2d. That every person
soliciting lands shall address to the Governor a petition, expressing his name, country, and religion, and describing as
distinctly as possible, by means of a map, the land asked for.
3d. The Governor shall proceed to obtain the necessary information, whbther the petition contains the proper conditions
required by the law of the 18th August, 1824, both as regards
the land and the petitioner, in order that the application may
be at once attended to; or, if it be preferred, the municipal
authority may be consulted, whether there be any objection to
the making of the grant. 4th. This being done, the Governor will accede or not to such petition, in conformity to the
laws on the subject. 5th. The definitive grant asked for being
made, a document signed by the Governor shall be given, to
serve as a title to the party interested, wherein it must be
stated that the grant is made in exact conformity with the
provisions of the law in virtue of which possession shall be
given. 6th. The necessary record shall be kept, in a book provided for the purpose, of all the petitions presented and grants
made, with maps of the lands granted, and a circumstantial
report shall be forwarded quarterly to the Supreme Government. There are many other provisions in the system of

DECEMBER TERM, 1857.

63

Una&r States v. -amblon.

regulations, relating to the disposition of the public lands,
adopted on the 18th November, 1828, which it is not at present material to notice. Those specified have a special bearing
upon the case before us. And, in view of them, it will be
observed, according to the fabts as presented at the trial before
the commissioners, and afterwards before the District Court, to
which we have already referred at large, that not one of the
preliminary steps made requisite by the act of the Mexican
Congress of 1824, and the regulations of 1828, to a grant of the
public domain by the Governors, has been observed; at least,
no evidence was given, before either of these-tribunals, of the
observance of any one of them. And we do not see how they
can well be dispensed with, as they are not only expressly prescribed by the regulations as essential to guard against improvident grants, but constitute an essential part of the record of
the title. It is true; the document recites thdt a petition was
presented, and that the customary investigations had been
made in respect to the application. But this cannot be regarded as conclusive, or even satisfactory evidence of thes6
Thcts, when the question is raised, whether or not the alleged
grant is made in conformitywith the requirements of the lawin other words, whether the preliminary conditions had been
complied with, which enabled the Governor in the particular
case to make the grant, especially in 'respect to those preliminary proceedings which are required to be made matters of
record, and of which record evidence should have been produced, or its non-production .satisfactorily accounted for.
The question here is not whether the fact of the habitual
grant of lands by Mexican Governors of the Territory of
California to settlers, and, also, whether the customary mode
and manner adopted in making grants, do not furnish presumptive evidence both of the existence of the power and of
a -compliance with the forms of law in the execution? We
agree, that the affirmative of these questions has been .frequently determined by this court, in cases involving Spanish
titles in the Territories of Louisiana and Florida. (6 Peters,
729, 781; 9 ib., 184; 19 How., 347.) But no such presumptions are necessary or admissible in respect to Mexican titles
granted since the act of 18th of August, 1824, and the reguions of 21st November, 1828. Authority to make the
grants is there expressly conferred on the Governors, as well
as the terms and conditions prescribed, upon which they shall
be made. The court must look to .thesb laws for both the
power to make the grant, and for the mode and manner of its
exercise; and they are to be substantially complied with, except so far as modified by the usages and customs of the

64

SUPREME COURT.
United State8 v. Cambuwton.

Government under whiah the titles are derived, the principles
of equity, and the decisions of this court. (17 How., 542.)
W e think, for the reasons above stated, that the case in the
court below was too defective to have warranted a confirmation of the title to the claimant, as it was unsupported by the
evidence; and also, for the further reason, for aught that appears in the proofs, the alleged grant has never been recorded
in the proper book, or, indeed, in any book of the Spanish
records. This is expressly required by the regulations of
November, 1828, and enjoined in the grant itself. The record
should have been produced, or its non-production reasonably
accounted for.
In the examination of the evidence in this case, we have
found it very difficult to resist a suspicion as to the bona fides
of the grant in question. It is a pure donation, without pecuniary consideration or meritorious services rendered to the
Government of Mexico. It is unaccompanied, as we have
seen, with the forms and usages always observed in disposing
of the public lands. Although purporting to be made on the
23d May, 1846, it was unknown to any person besides the
grantee himself, and another interested party, till filed among
the public archives, 10th July, 1850, after the cession of California, by Mexico, to this Government. It was made but a
month and a half before the country was taken possession of
by the arms of the United States, and made by a person who
had but recently expelled from the Territory by force its lawful
Governor, (Micheltorena,) and taken possession of it himself.
Whether or not Pico had been recognised by the existing Government in Mexico, at the time the grant is dated, does not
appear. Micheltorena was overthrown by the joint forces of
Castro and Pico, in the spring or fore part of the summer of
1845. (See Captain Sutter's evidence, in original record in
Reading's case, 18 How., p. 1; also, Report of General Cass to
Senate, on California Claims, February 23, 1848.)
Civil commotion raged throughout the Territory, from this
period down to the 7th July, 1846, when the authority of Pico
and Castro themselves was subverted, and possession taken
and held by the arms of the United States, until the cession
of the country to this Government by the treaty of Guadalupe
Hidalgo.
The grant purporting to have been made by Pico, so near
the time when the Government of the Territory had passed
from his hands, and, indeed, during the very heat and conflict
of the struggle in which his power was overthrown, it, and all
others similarly situated, should be inquired into and scrutinized with great care, both as to the authority of the Governor

DEOEM1BER TERM, 1857.

65

Dynes v. Hoover.

to make them, and the bona fides of its exercise, in order to'
prevent imposition-and frauds.
The court below appears to have been very much pressed
with the unsatisfactory character of the evidence, and with
doubts as to the genuineness of the title, and seems to have
yielded iather to the apparent acquiescence of the representative of the Government, in the decision of the commissioners,
than to any settled convictions of its own judgment.
'We should not hesitate -to reverse ihe decree below, and
direct a decree against the claimant, were it not that the mode
and manner of conducting the case, both before the commissioners and the District Court, on behalf of the Government,
may have misled him; for, if the objections here stated had
been made at the proper time before either of the tribunals, it.
may have been in his power to have removed them by the introduction of further evidence. It would be unjust, therefore,
to deprive him, under the circumstances, of the opportunity to
furnish such evidence.
We shall therefore reverse the decree, and remand the casd
to the court below for.a further hearing.-

FRANK DYNES, PLAINTIFF IN ERR R, v. JONAR

D.

-oovER.

The Constitution of the United States gives to Congress the power to provide anc:
maintain a navy, and to make rules for its government.

In the exercise of this power, Congress provided for the punishment of desertion
and of other crimes not specified in the articles, which should be punished according to the'laws and customs in such cases at sea. ,
'Where a seaman was charged with deserting, and the court marti l found him

guilty of attempting to desert, the court had jurisdiction over the subject-matter,
and an action of trespass for false imprisonment will not lie against the ministerial officer who executes the sentence for attenipting to desert.
It is only where a court has no jurisdiction over the subject-matter, or, having
tuch jurisdiction, is bound to adopt certain rules in its proceedings, from which
it deviates, whereby the proceedings are rendered earam nonjudice, that an action.

will lie against the officer who executes its judgment.
The authorities upon this point examined, and also tie legal powers of courts
martial.

THIs case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holden
in and for the county of Washington.
Dynes was a seaman in the navy, who was tried by a court
martial upon a charge of desertion, who found him not guilty
of deserting, but guilty of attempting to desert; and sentenced.
him to be confined in the penitentiary of the District of Columbia at hard labor, without pay, for the term of six months from
the date of the approval of the sentence, and nof to bhe again
VOL. XX.

5

