OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

SEABOARD AIR LINE RAILWAY v. BLACKWELL.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF

GEORGIA.
No. 213.

Submitted April 24, 1917.-Decided June 4, 1917.

That provision of the "Blow-Post" law of Georgia (Civil Code, 1910,
§§ 2675-2677), which requires railroad companies to check the speed
of trains before public road crossings so that trains may be stopped
in time should any person or thing be crossing the track there,
is a direct and unconstitutional interference with interstate commerce as applied to the state of facts specifically pleaded by the
defendant interstate carrier in this case, whereby it appears that, to
comply with the requirement, the interstate train in question would
have been obliged to come practically to a stop at each of 124 ordinary grade crossings within a distance of 123 miles in Georgia extending from Atlanta to the South Carolina line, and that more than
six hours would thus have been added to the schedule time of four
hours and thirty minutes. Southern Railway Co. v. King, 217 U. S.
524, distinguished.
16 Ga. App. 504, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Lamar C. Rucker, Mr. Andrew J. Cobb, Mr. Howell
C. Erwin and Mr. W. L. Erwin for plaintiff in error.
No appearance for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
This writ of error is directed to a judgment entered
upon a verdict for the sum of $1,000 in the city court of
Elberton, Georgia, for the death of a son of defendant in

error alleged to have been caused by the railway company.

SEABOARD AIR LINE RY. v. BLACKWELL.
244 U.S.

311

Opinion of the Court.

The judgment was affirmed by the Court of Appeals of
Georgia.
The facts as charged are: That the deceased was driving
a horse and buggy along a public road in the county of
Elbert and while crossing the railroad track of the railway
company at a public crossing outside of the city of Elberton he was struck by the engine of one of the company's
passenger trains and received injuries from which he died
three days later.
That the employees of the company in charge of the
train failed to blow the engine whistle at the blow-post
400 yards south of the crossing, failed to keep blowing it
until the train arrived at the crossing, and failed to check
the speed of the train at such blow-post and keep it
checked until the train reached the crossing, and, so failing, the company was guilty of negligence.
That the employees of the company failed to keep the
train under control and approached the crossing at a high
and dangerous rate of speed so that they could not stop
the same in time to save the life of the deceased, and that
such conduct was negligence. And that "such conduct
was negligence if they saw said deceased on the crossing,
and it was negligence if they did not see him, and it was
negligence under the blow-post law,' and it was negligence
regardless of the blow-post law."

I"Sec. 2675. A post to be erected. There must be fixed on the line of
said roads, and at the distance of four hundred yards from the center
of each of such road crossings, and on each side thereof, a post, and the
engineer shall be required, whenever he shall arrive at either of said
posts, to blow the whistle of the locomotive until it arrives at the public
road, and to simultaneously check and keep checking the speed thereof,
so as to stop in time should any person or thing be crossing said track
on said road.
"See. 2676. Neglecting to erect such posts. Should any company fail
or neglect to put up said posts, the superintendent thereof shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
"Sec. 2677. Failingto blow whistle. If any engineer neglects to blow

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

The company by its answer denied the various acts
of negligence charged against it and its employees and
denied "that the failure to comply with said blow-post
law was negligence on its part relatively to the transaction
in question."
The company set out the applicable sections of the law
and alleged that its train was running in interstate commerce between the States and especially between Georgia
and South Carolina. That between the city of Atlanta,
Georgia, and the Savannah River, a distance of 123 miles,
where the same is the boundary line of Georgia, there are
124 points where the line of the railroad crosses public
roads of the different counties of the State, established
pursuant to law, and that all of such crossings are at grade.
That in order to comply with the law the speed of a
train would have to be so slackened that there would be
practically a full stop at each of the road crossings; that
the time required for such purpose would depend upon
various conditions, which might or might not exist at
the time and at the crossings, among others, the state of
the weather and the percentage of grade; but it would not
be less than three minutes for a train composed .of an engine and three cars, and for a train of a greater number of
cars the time would be greater-for an average freight
train, not less than five minutes.
That the train alleged to have caused the death, of the
deceased was composed of an engine, a mail car and two
coaches, and that if the blow-post law had been complied
said wbhistle as required, and to check the speed as required, he is guilty
of a misdemeanor: Provided, that within the corporate limits of the
cities, towns, and villages of this State, the several railroad companies
shall not be required to blow the whistle of their locomotives on approaching crossings or public roads in said corporate limits, but in lieu
thereof the engineer of said locomotive shall be required to signal the
approach of their trains to such crossings and public roads in said corporate limits, by tolling the bell of said locomotive; and on failure to do
so, the penalties of this section shall apply to such offense."

SEABOARD AIR LINE RY. v. BLACKWELL.
244 U. S.

313

Opinion of the Court.

with on the day in question at least three minutes would
have been consumed at each crossing, more than six hours
between Atlanta and the Savannah River. That the
running time between those points according to the
adopted schedule was four hours and thirty minutes.
That if the law had been complied with the time consumed between those points would have been more than
ten and one-half hours.
That for freight trains the time consumed would be
more than sixteen hours, the maximum speed of such
trains on the company's road being twenty miles an hour.
That the crossings are the usual and ordinary grade
crossings and there are no conditions which make any
one of them peculiarly dangerous other than such danger
as may result from the crossing of a public road by a railroad track at grade.
That between the City of Atlanta and the Savannah
River the line of the company's railroad crosses the tracks
of two other railroads and that under the laws of the State
a train is required to come to a full stop fifty feet from
the crossing and that the time so consumed would increase the time requied -to operate between the points
referred to.
That the law as applied to the train in question is an
unreasonable regulation of interstate commerce and a
violation of Paragraph 3, § 8, Article I, of the Constitution of the United States, and that therefore the company
is not guilty of the various acts of negligence charged
against it.
Upon demurrer to the answer of the company the averments in regard to the law were struck out except the
denial that the failure to comply with the law was negligence on the company's part "relatively to the transaction in question."
The case so went to the jury, including the defense that
the deceased failed to exercise ordinary care and diligence

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

for his own safety. The jury returned a verdict for the
sum of $1,000.'
A motion for a new trial was denied. The railway company then took the case to the Court of Appeals of the
State and that court invoked the instruction of the Supreme Court upon the question whether that part of the
law (§ 2675, Civil Code of the State) ,which Tequires the
engineer to check the speed of the train on approaching
a public crossing, so as to stop in time should any person
or thing be crossing the railroad track on its road, is unconstitutional so far as an interstate train is concerned,
under the conditions set forth in the answer of the company, for the reason that as thus applied the statute is a
regulation of interstate commerce and repugnant to the
commerce clause of the Constitution of the United States.
The Supreme Court answered the question in the negative. The opinion of the court is very elaborate, but
the basis of it is that the law is a valid exercise of the police
power of the State, that there was no displacement of its
exercise by congressional action, and that by its exercise
in the law in question it did not directly burden interstate
commerce.
The Court of Appeals accepted necessarily the views of
the Supreme Court and sustained the ruling of the trial
court upon the demurrer to the plea of the company that
the law violated the commerce clause of the Constitution.
To the contention of the company that the deceased
had not observed ordinary care for his own safety and
could have avoided the injury which resulted in his death,
the court answered that it was a jury question, and said:
"In view of the evidence as to the defendant's failure to
comply with the provisions of the 'blow-post law' there
is sufficient testimony as a whole to support the jury's
finding in favor of the plaintiff." The court hence affirmed
the judgment.
It will be observed, therefore, from this statement that

SEABOARD AIR LINE RY. v. BLACKWELL.
24 U. S.

315

Opinion of the Court.

the law of the State was an element in the decisions of the
state tribunals and its constitutionality was sustained
against the attacks of the railway company. The question is, therefore, presented for our consideration. In its
consideration We need not descant upon the extent of the
police power of the State and the limitations upon it when
it encounters the powers conferred upon the National
Government. There is pertinent exposition of these in
Southern Railway Co. v. King, 217 U. S. 524, in which the
law now under review was passed upon. The case is clear
as to the relation of the powers and that the power of the
State cannot be exercised to directly burden interstate
commerce. It was recognized that there might be crossings the approach to which the State could regulate. But,
on the other hand, it wa said there might be others so
numerous and so near together that to require the slackening of speed would be practically destructive of the
successful operation of interstate passenger trains, and,
therefore, "statutes which require the speed of such trains
to be cliecked at all crossings so situated might not only
be a regulation, but also a direct burden upon interstate
commerce, and therefore beyond the power of the State
to enact."
That case went off on a question of pleading. An answer
was filed that did not invoke the Federal Constitution.
This was attempted to be done by an amended answer
which was very general and to which a demurrer was sustained. At the trial of the action there was an offer of
evidence of the specific effect of the law upon the operation of trains as showing the impediment of the law to
interstate commerce. The evidence was excluded. This
court sustained the ruling on the ground that the evidence
was not admissible under the pleadings. The ruling upon
the demurrer to the answer was sustained on the ground
that the answer contained only general averments constituting "mere conclusions." It was said that the aver-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
WHITE, Ch. J., PITNEY

and BRANDEIS, JJ., dissenting. 244 U. S.

ments "set forth no facts which would make the operation
of the statute unconstitutional. They do not show the
number or location of the crossings at which the railway
company would be required to check the speed of its
trains so as to interfere with their successful operation.

For aught that appears as allegations of fact in this answer
the crossing at which this injury happened may have been
so located and of such dangerous character as to make
the slackening of trains at that point necessary to the
safety of those using the public highway, and a statute
making such requirement only a reasonable police regulation, and not an unlawful attempt to regulate or hinder
interstate commerce. In the absence of facts setting up
a situation showing the unreasonable character of the stat-

ute as applied to the defendant under the circumstances,
we think the amended answer set up no legal defense, and
that the demurrer thereto was properly sustained."
The facts so specified and which it was decided would
give illegal operation to the statute are alleged in the
present case, and, assuming them to be true-and we
must so assume-compel the conclusion that the statute
is a direct burden upon interstate commerce, and, being
such, is unlawful. The demurrer to the answer averring
them was therefore improperly sustained.
We express no opinion on the third defense of the company.
Reversed and case remanded for further proceedings not
inconsistent with this opinion.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

and MR. JUS-

TICE BRANDEIS dissent on the ground that the regulation
in question was within the class which the State is entitled to enact in the absence of congressional action,

and until such action. There having been no action by
Congress, there is therefore no ground for holding the
state action void as a regulation of interstate commerce.

