PAINE LUMBER CO. v. NEAL.
244 U. S.

Syllabus.

denial that the court had jurisdiction of-it in respect of the
new claims set up, pleaded further, upon the rule to answer,
that the amended libel did not state a cause of action.
But if the principles of waiver and appearance by pleading
to the merits are not modified in a case where the defendant already is in court, it is true at least that when objections to the jurisdiction have been overruled the defendant
does not lose its rights by pleading to the merits. Harkness v. Hyde, 98 U. S. 476. The District Court attempted
to exceed its jurisdictio and the writ of prohibition should
be granted.
Rule absolute.

PAINE LUMBER COMPANY, LIMITED, ET AL. v.
NEAL, INDIVIDUALLY AND AS SECRETARY
AND TREASURER OF THE JOINT. DISTRICT
COUNCIL OF NEW YORK AND VICINITY OF
THE UNITED BROTHERHOOD OF CARPENTERS AND JOINERS OF AMERICA AND AMALGAMATED SOCIETY OF CARPENTERS AND
JOINERS OF AMERICA, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 24. Argued May 3, 4, 1915; restored to docket for reargument
June 12, 1916; reargued October 24, 25, 1916.-Decided June 11, 1917.
A private party cannot maintain a suit for an injunction under § 4 of
the Sherman Anti-Trust Law.
Such action upon the part of a labor union as is involved in this case is
not subject to be enjoined under the laws of New York in a private suit.
214 Fed. Rep. 82, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Appellants.

244 U. S.

Mr. Walter Gordon Merritt and Mr. Daniel Davenport
for appellants:
The combination falls within that class of restraints of
trade intended to coerce third parties and strangers from
engaging in interstate trade except on conditions that the
combination imposes, and therefore violates the Federal
Anti-Trdst Law.
The object is to control conditions of manufacture by
preventing the sale and use of manufactured articles
unless they come from mills operated and exclusively
manned by members of the combination. It is a combination between the sources of production and those
who control distribution and consumption, to limit the
market to producers joining such combination. According to the defendants' contention, they must protect the
union mills from the competition of non-union mills because, under the natural law of trade and competition,
the union mills cannot survive with their increased cost
of production. The rule against using or working on
open shop "trim" was therefore adopted to destroy open
shop competition. The Master Carpenters' Association
also take active steps to enforce this r~gime in order to
protect themselves from the competition of independent
contractors using such material.
The conceded purpose is to increase profits and' wages
in the union mill and to do this by the only possible method
.by which men working on buildings could accomplish
such a purpose, viz: restraining trade or commerce by
making open shop products unsalable. There is no relation between the buildings and the factories except commerce, so that the only way in which the conditions in the
mills can be affected by the conduct of the men at the
buildings is by controlling commerce.
The union manufacturers and their employees have an
undoubted interest in extending the sale and use of any
merchandise which is produced by their joint efforts,

PAINE LUMBER CO. v. NEAL.
244 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

and may, therefore, justify and excuse any injury which
they inflict upon their competitors by the ordinary
methods of legitimate competition. They cannot, however, by association or combination with journeymen
who have no such interest, but exercise a despotic control over the use and installation of such products, destroy
the competition of business rivals and monopolize the
market. This is no ordinary labor case, but an instance
where the defendants are seeking to project their influence
into trade and commerce for the purpose of preventing
the sale and distribution of completed articles of common
use produced by their competitors. It is an attempt to
drive open shop products out of commerce.
The distinction between a combination where parties
subject themselves to a self-imposed restraint, and a combination which has also the objective purpose of interfering with outsiders, has been recognized by this court,
which holds that the latter combination implies a wrongful purpose. United States v. Patten, 226 U. S. 525; Loewe
v. Lawlor, 208 U. S. 274; Northern Securities Co. v. United
States, 193 U. S. 197; Standard Oil Co. v. United States,
221 U. S. 1; TRomsen V. Union Castle Mail S. S. Co., 166
Fed. Rep. 251; State v. Duluth Board of Trade (Minn.),
121 N. W. Rep. 395; Brown & Allen v. Jacobs Pharmacy
(Ga.), 41 S. E. Rep. 553.
If the object of the combination be the illegal one described, it is immaterial that the means are otherwise
innocent and lawful. There is nothing talismanic about
the right to strike which excepts it from this universal
and wholesonfe rule of law. Aikens v. Wisconsin, 195
U. S. 204; Gompers v. Bucks Stove & Range Co., 221 U. S.
418; Swift & Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375; United
States v. Reading Co., 226 U. S. 324; Loewe v. Lawlor,
supra.
This doctrine that an act otherwise legal may become
illegal when exercised in furtherance of an illegal con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Appellants.

244 U. S.

spiracy has been frequently applied in the case of strikes.
[Citing numerous authorities.]
If the means employed are calculated and intended to
restrain interstate trade, it is immaterial that they are to
be performed or operate entirely within the limits of one
State. Loewe v. Lawlor, supra; United States v. Reading
Co., supra; Swift & Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375;
Northern Securities Co. v. United States, 193 U. S. 197;
United States v. Terminal R. R. Assn., 227 U. S. 683.
The case at bar is undistinguishable in principle from
the cases of Montague v. Lowry, 193 U. S. 38; Loewe v.
Lawlor, supra; Eastern States Retail Lumber Dealers'
Assn. v. United States, 234 U. S. 600, and Lawlor v. Loewe,
235 U. S. 522. The judges in the lower court entertained
no doubt as to the applicability of the Anti-Trust Law.
Irving v. Neal, 209 Fed. Rep. 471; Paine v. Neal, 212 Fed.
Rep. 259 (case at bar)..
The complainants, being irreparably injured in their
property rights by acts in violation of the Anti-Trust
Law, are entitled to an injunction. The jurisdiction of the
District Court was invoked both on account of diversity
of citizenship and the Anti-Trust Law. The complainants
appealed to its general equitable powers to protect them
from irreparable injury to their property rights by unlawful and criminal acts. To deny the power and duty of the
chancellor to protect property rights from irreparable
injury, due to criminal acts, involves an overthrow of
fundamental principles and unfortunate consequences
which would be far-reaching. If the Federal Anti-Trust
Law supersedes all other law relative to combinations
which restrain interstate trade and is to be construed as
denying the right of an injunction to a private party,
then persons irreparably injured in their property rights
by such criminal acts, which were exclusively in restraint
of interstate trade, would be deprived of their property
without due process of law. The federal statute is only

PAINE LUMBER CO. v. NEAL.
244 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

declaratory of the common law without adding to or subtracting from the substantive offense; it specifies the
remedies of treble damages, confiscation, and injunction
by the government, which were not available under the
common law, and, by making restraints which were
purely subjective in their nature affirmatively unlawful,
entitles a private party suffering damage therefrom to all
available civil remedies. Since the law does not lay down
any new rule as to combinations which are legal or illegal,
the remedies which it prescribes are cumulative and do not
exclude common-law remedies.
The law should be construed with a view to suppressing
the mischief and advancing the remedy for which it is
obviously designed, and to carry with it all the incidents
and available remedies which usually accompany such
statutes. Upon this question, however, the lower courts
are in disagreement.
The cases holding that parties injured by acts in violation of this law are entitled to an injunction under general
equitable principles are as follows: Bigelow v. Calumet &
Hecla Mining Co., 155 Fed. Rep. 877; affd. 167 Fed. Rep.
721; United States v. Addyston Pipe & Steel Co., 85 Fed.
Rep. 279; Mannington v. Hocking Valley Ry. Co., 183
Fed. Rep. 140; De Koven v. Lake Shore ?Michigan
Southern Ry. Co., 216 Fed. Rep. 955; Hitchman Coal &
Coke Co. v. Mitchell, 202 Fed. Rep. 512; Walsh v. Association of Plumbers (Mo.), 71 S. W. Rep. 455. [Counsel
then cited contrary decisions of the lower federal courts,
a number of which are mentioned in the dissenting opinion.]
It is our contention that under general principles any
person specially injured in his property rights by criminal
or unlawful acts is entitled to the usual and appropriate
civil remedies to protect him therefrom, and that there is
nothing in the Sherman Act which deprives him of that
right or contracts the power of the District Court to grant

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Appellants.

244 U. S.

him injunctive relief. Hayes v. Michigan Central R. R.
Co., 111 U. S. 228; Willy v. Mulledy, 78 N. Y. 314; Mairs
v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co., 175 N. Y. 413; Huda v.
American Glucose Co., 154 N. Y. 481; Angle v. Chicago &
St. Paul Co., 151 U. S. 2; Bitterman v. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co., 207 U. S. 206; 1 Rev. Swift's Dig., side page
553; In re Debs, 158 U. S. 593, 594; Cooper v. Whittingham,
15 Ch. Div. 501; Parker v. Barnard, 135 Massachusetts,
120; Hayes v. Porter, 22 Maine, 371; Toledo A. A. &
N. M. Ry. Co. v. Penn Co., 54 Fed. Rep. 730; HardieTynes Mfg. Co. v. Cruse (Ala.), 66 So. Rep. 657; Thomas v.
N. 0. & T. P. Ry. Co., 2 Fed. Rep. 821.
The fact that Congress has since given a private individual the right to an injunction, by the Clayton Act,
seems to indicate what was its intention under the original
act.
The complainants have suffered special damages entitling them to injunctive relief.
The defendants' combination violates §§ 340 and 341
of Article 22 of the General Business Law of New York,
and complainants, being irreparably, injured in their
property rights by such unlawful acts, are entitled to an
injunction.
If the acts of the defendants constitute a misdemeanor
under the terms of this state statute, then the plaintiffs
are entitled to all the appropriate and usual civil remedies,
even though those remedies are not prescribed by the
statute. It is the settled law of New York that one who
is specially injured by an act forbidden by the criminal
law is entitled to civil relief. Kellogg v. Sowerby, 190 N. Y.
370; Rourke v. Elk Drug Co., 77 N. Y. Supp. 374; Dueber
Co. v. Howard Co., 24 N. Y. Supp. 647; Straus v. American
Publishers'Assn., 177 N. Y. 473; 193 N. Y. 496; 199 N. Y.
548; 231 U. S. 222; 85 App. Div. 446; Park & Sons v.
National Druggists' Assn., 175 N. Y. 1; Locker v. American
Tobacco Co., 195 N. Y. 565. The statute is little more

PAINE LUMBER CO. v. NEAL.
244 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

than a codification of the common law. Matter of Davies,
168 N. Y. 89; People v. American Ie Co., 120 N. Y. Supp.
443. The commodities produced by plaintiffs are included.
The motive which actuates the members of the combination is immaterial, but the purpose and object of the combination is material. Kellogg v. Sowerby, 190 N. Y. 370;
People v. American Ice Co., 120 N. Y. Supp. 443; Schwarcz
v. International Union, 124 N. Y. Supp. 968; State v.
Minneapolis Milk Co. (Minn.), 144 N. W. Rep. 417. If
the plaintiffs are to prevail under this statute, it is because the acts of the defendants constitute a public offense
forbidden by the statute and have resulted in injury to
the plaintiffs. The character of the participants is immaterial. The fact that the defendants are endeavoring
to suppress competition in the supply and price of completed articles in common use removes their combination
and conduct from the case of National Protective Assn. v.
Cumming, 170 N. Y. 315, and brings them within the
purview of the Anti-Trust Law. Rourke v. Elk Drug Co.,
77 N. Y. Supp. 375; Loewe v. Lawlor, 208 U. S. 274.
If the combination of the defendants is illegal, then
every act in furtherance thereof, though otherwise innocent and constitutionally protected, becomes illegal because done in furtherance of the illegal purpose. Acts
which might be innocent when done by one person may
become illegal when done by a number in combination in
violation of the statute. Rourke v. Elk Drug Co., 77 N. Y.
Supp. 375; Locker v. American Tobacco Co., 195 N. Y.
565; Locker v. American Tobacco Co., 106 N. Y. Supp. 118
(Judge Gaynor's opinion);. Walsh v. Dwight, 58 N. Y.
Supp. 91.
Generally as to the application of this law to cases like
the present, see People v. McFarlin, 89 N. Y. Supp. 527;
Irving v. Neal, 209 Fed. Rep. 471; Paine v. Neal, 212 Fed.
Rep. 259; Gill Engraving Co. v. Doerr, 214 Fed. Rep. 111.
Within the meaning of this act defendants' combination

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Appellants.

244 U. S.

(a) seeks to create and maintain a monopoly in the manufacture, production and sale of the articles in question.
Their own reports show that they have already acquired
a complete monopoly at higher prices of trade in wood
trim on the Island of Manhattan, theieby terminating all
trade in that borough with any open shops, People v.
American Ice Co., 120 N. Y. Supp. 443. (b) It attempts
to restrain or prevent competition in the supply and price
of these articles. (c) It seeks to restrain or prevent the
free pursuit of a lawful trade or business, in order thereby
to create or maintain a monopoly in the production and
sale of these articles. Straus v. American Publishers'
Assn., supra; People v. McFarlin, 89 N. Y. Supp. 527;
Cummings v. Union Blue Stone Co., 164 N. Y. 401; Arnot
v. Pittston Coal Co., 68 N. Y. 558.
The restraint is not incidental to any legitimate end
which the defendants seek, but is the direct purpose of
the combination. The benefits sought by the defendants
are the result of the restraint of trade, and the restraint of
trade is not the result of the benefits or incidental to them.
The defendants' combination violates subdivision 6 of
§ 580 of Article 54 of the Penal Law of New York; also
subdivision 5 of § 580 of that law; also § 530 of Article 48
of that law.
Section 582 of the Penal Law of New York is declaratory
of the common law and does not legalize the defendants'
acts.
A combination of traders, to promote their own interests
by suppressing the conpetition of rivals, is illegal at common law and it is immaterial whether the combination
aims at one rival or a class of rivals. If the complainants
are being irreparably injured in their property rights by
unlawful acts committed within the State, they would be
entitled to relief regardless of the existing federal law,
whether those acts were unlawful at common law or because of some state statute.

PAINE LUMBER CO. v. NEAL.
244 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

The facts establish a combination to cause strikes
against customers of complainants for the purpose of
preventing the sale of their products as long as they operate an open shop, and is, in effect, a secondary boycott
of the complainants, which is unlawful. [Citing many
authorities].
The combination of defendants to bring about the employment of members of their organization exclusively
in their industry throughout an entire community is
unlawful. [Counsel here went into an analysis of the
means employed and the rights affected and dangers involved, referring to numerous authorities.]
The relief prayed for will not interfere with the legal
provisions of any of the arbitration agreements.
Complainants are entitled to an injunction under § 16
of the Clayton Act, of October 15, 1914. This section is
declaratory of ancient common-law principles and is
highly remedial, and should be construed so as to advance
the remedy. It was meant to remove doubt arising from
divergent federal decisions, and is to be takeii as a legislative construction of the prior law, of retrospective operation, applicable to pending suits like this. Bailey v.
Clark, 21 Wall. 284; Tiger v. Western Investment Co., 221
U. S. 286; Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v. United States, 189
U. S. 274; Dinsmore v. Southern Express Co., 183 U. S.
115; Sampeyreac v. United States, 7 Pet. 222; United
States v. The Schooner Peggy, 1 Cranch, 105.
It was not the intention by § 6 of the Clayton Act to
change in any respect the Sherman Anti-Trust Act as it
had been construed and applied by this court in any case.
The history of the legislation, shown by the committee
reports and even the debates in Congress, establishes this.
Moreover, the act in §4 re-enacts, word for word, §7
of the Sherman Anti-Trust Act, under which the Loewe
Case was brought to and decided by this court, without
excepting that or any other case from its provisions,

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Counsel for Appellees.

244 U. S.

which action, upon established principles of construc•tion, is an adoption by Congress of the doctrines of that
case.
The presence of § 6 in the act is due to the fact that it
was thought desirable to put at rest the contentions, of
some, that the existence of labor unions for legitimate
purposes was forbidden by the Sherman Anti-Trust Act.
Section 20 of the Clayton Act has obviously no application since here the relation of employer and employee does
not exist actually or prospectively between the contending parties.
It is further obvious that the various acts mentioned in
§ 20, against which injunctions shall not issue in this
limited class of cases, are most of them acts which in
and of themselves are ordinarily lawful, and that this
section accomplishes no other purpose than to declare
the previously existing law on this subject. The recognition of a right by a statute, such as the Claytc a Act,
will not justify the exercise of that right in furtherance
of a criminal conspiracy, which is expressly defined by the
same statute. Aikens v. Wisconsin, 195 U. S. 194; Gompers
v. Bucks Stove & Range Co., 221 U. S. 439.
Otherwise construed, the Clayton law would be unconstitutional as class legislation, and depriving persons of
,property without due process of law. Cleland v. Anderson, 66 Nebraska, 252; Connolly v. Union Pipe Co., 184
U. S. 540.
It is proper for the complainants to unite as co-plaintiffs
since they were all similarly affected by the same combination.
Mr. Charles Maitland Beattie for the labor union appellees.
Mr. Frederick Hulse for appellees.
Mr. Anthony Gref, Mr. Charles J. Hardy and Mr. Fred-

PAINE LUMBER CO. v. NEAL.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

erick P. Whitaker filed a brief in behalf of appellee James
Elgar, Inc.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill in equity brought by corporations, of
States other than New York, engaged in the manufacture
of doors, sash, etc., in open shops, against officers and
agents of the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and
Joiners of America and of the New York branch of the
same, certain union manufacturers of doors, sash, etc.,
members of the Manufacturing Wood Workers' Association, and many master carpenters, members of the Master
Carpenters' Association, whose business is to install such
products in buildings. The bill was dismissed by the
District Court, 212 Fed. Rep. 259, and the decree was
affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 214 Fed. Rep.
82; 130 C. C. A. 522.
The bill alleges a conspiracy of the members of the
Brotherhood and the New York branch to prevent the
exercise of the trade of carpenters by any one not a
member of the Brotherhood, and to prevent the plaintiffs and all other employers of carpenters not such members from engaging in interstate commerce and selling
their goods outside of the State where the goods are manufactured, and it sets out the usual devices of labor unions
as exercised to that end. In 1909 the Master Carpenters,
coerced by the practical necessities of the case, made an
agreement with the New York branch, accepting a previously established joint arbitration plan to avoid strikes
and lockouts. This agreement provides that "there shall
be no restriction against the use of any manufactured
material except non-union or prison made"; the arbitration plan is confined to shops that use union labor and the
employers agree to employ union labor only. The unions
will not erect material made by non-union mechanics.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

Another agreement between the Manufacturing Wood
Workers' Association, the Brotherhood and the New
York branch also adopts the plan of arbitration; the
labor unions agree that "none of their members will erect
or ingtall non-union or prison made material," and the
.Wood Workers undertake that members of the Brotherhood shall" be employed exclusively in the mills of the Manufacturing Wood Workers' Association." It is found that
most of the journeymen carpenters in Manhattan and
part of Brooklyn belong to the Brotherhood, and that
owing to their refusal to work with non-union men and to
employers finding it wise to employ union men, it is very
generally impracticable to erect carpenter work in those
places except by union labor. It also is found that owing
to the above provisions as to non-union material the sale
of the plaintiffs' goods in those places has been made less.
The workmen have adopted the policy complained of
without malice toward the plaintiffs, as part of a plan to
bring about "a nation-wide unionization in their trade."
An injunction is asked against the defendants' (other
than the Master Carpenters) conspiring to refuse to work
upon material made by the plaintiffs, because not made by
union labor; or enforcing by-laws intended to prevent
working with or upon what is called unfair material; or
inducing persons to refuse to work for persons purchasing
such material, or taking other enumerated steps to the
same general end; or conspiring to restrain the plaintiffs'
interstate business in order to compel them to refuse to
employ carpenters. not members of the Brotherhood.
It is prayed further that, the provision quoted above from
the Master Carpenters' agreement and another ancillary
one be declared void and the parties enjoined from carrying them out. No /other or alternative relief is prayed.
The ground on which the injunction was refused by the
District Court was that, although it appeared that the
agreements above mentioned were parts of a comprehen-

PAINE LUMBER CO. v. NEAL.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

sive plan to restrain commerce among the States, the
conspiracy was not directed specially against the plaintiffs and had caused them no special damage, different
from that inflicted on the public at large. The Circuit
Court of Appeals, reserving its opinion as to whether any
agreement or combination contrary to law was made out,
agreed with the judge below on the ground that no acts
directed against the plaintiffs personally were shown.
In the opinion of a majority of the court if the facts show
any violation of the Act of July 2, 1890, c. 647, 26 Stat.
209, a private person cannot maintain a suit for an injunction under § 4 of the same, Minnesota v. Northern Securities Co., 194 U. S. 48, 70, 71, and especially such an
injunction as is sought; even if we should go behind what
seems to have been the view of both courts below, that
no special damage was shown, and reverse their conclusion of fact. No one would maintain that the injunction
should be granted to parties not showing special injury
to themselves. Personally, I lay those questions on one
side because, while the Act of October 15, 1914, c. 323,
§ 16, 38 Stat. 730, 737,' establishes the right of private
parties to an injunction in proper cases, in my opinion it
also establishes a policy inconsistent with the granting of
one here. I do not go into the reasoning that satisfies me,
because upon this point I am in a minority.
As this court is not the final authority concerning the
laws of New York we say but a word about them. We
shall not believe that the ordinary action of a labor union
can be made the ground of an injunction under those laws
until we are so instructed by the New York Court of
Appeals. National Protective Association of Steam Fitters
& Helpers v. Cumming, 170 N. Y. 315. Certainly the
conduct complained of has no tendency to produce a
monopoly of manufacture or building, since the more
successful it is the more competitors are introduced into
the trade. Cases like Kellogg v. Sowerby, 190 N. Y. 370,

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
PITNEY, MCKENNA, and VAN DEVANTER, JJ., dissenting.

244 U. S.

concerning conspiracies between railroads and elevator
companies to prevent competition, seem to us very clearly
not to have been intended to overrule the authority that
we cite, and not to have any bearing on the present point.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY, with whom concurred MR.
TICE MCKENNA and MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER,

JUSdis-

senting.
Appellants, who were complainants below, filed their
bill in the United States Circuit Court (afterwards District Court) in the month of February, 1911, to obtain an
injunction against the prosecution of a conspiracy to
restrain interstate trade and commerce in the products
of complainants' woodworking mills and destroy their
interstate business by means of a boycott. The federal
jurisdiction was invoked both on the ground of diverse
citizenship and on the ground that the action arose under
the Sherman Anti-Trust Act of July 2, 1890, c. 647, 26
Stat. 209. Upon the merits, the laws of the State of New
York were relied upon, as well as the federal act. (General Business Law of N. Y., § 340; Penal Law of N. Y.,
§ 580, subd. 6.)
It was found by the District Court (212 Fed. Rep. 259,
263, 266) that the defendants were engaged in a combination directly restraining competition between manufacturers and operating to restrain interstate commerce, in
violation of both federal and state acts. The Circuit Court
of Appeals assumed this to be so (214 Fed. Rep. 82), and
there is no serious dispute about it here. The District
Court dismissed the bill, upon the ground that injunctive relief under either statute could be had only at the
instance of the United States, or the State of New York,
as the case might be, and therefore complainants could
not have relief in this suit; citing National Fireproofing

PAINE LUMBER CO. v. NEAL.
244 U. S. PITNEY, McKENNA, and VAN DEVANTER, JJ., dissenting.

Co. v. Mason Builders' Association, 169 Fed. Rep. 259, 263.
The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the decree upon the
ground that defendants' acts were not malicious and not
directed against the individual complainants personally,
and hence relief by injunction could not be granted,
irrespective of whether the particular combination in question was obnoxious either to the common law or to the
statutes. Tis decision was rendered on April 7, 1914.
In this court, the prevailing opinion is that, although
the facts show a violation of the Sherman Act, a private
person cannot maintain a suit for an injunction under its
fourth section. I dissent from the view that complainants
cannot maintain a suit for an injunction, and I do so not
because of any express provision in the act authorizing
such a suit, but because, in the absence of some provision
to the contrary, the right to relief by injunction, where irreparable injury is threatened through a violation of
property rights and there is no adequate remedy at law,
rests upon settled principles of equity that were recognized
in the constitutional grant of jurisdiction to the courts
of the United States. I think complainants were entitled
to an injunction also upon grounds of state law; but will
confine what I have to say to the federal question.
The proofs render it clear that defendants are engaged
in a boycotting combination in restraint of interstate
commerce prohibited by and actionaile under the Sherman Law, on the authority of Montague & Co. v. Lowry,
193 U. S. 38, 44-48; Loewe v. Lawlor, 208 U. S. 274, 292,
et seq.; Eastern States Retail Lumber Dealers' Assn. v.
United States, 234 U. S. 600, 614; Lawlor v. Loewe, 235
U. S. 522, 534. The proof is clear also that the conspiracy
is aimed at the property rights of complainants in particular; certainly that it is designed to injure directly and
drive out of business a limited class of traders-the socalled "non-union" woodworking mills-to which complainants belong; that complainants are sustaining direct

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
PiTNEY, MCKENNA, and V.N DEVANTER,

JJ., dissenting.

244 U. S.

and serious injury through the closing of the channels of
interstate trade to their products, an injury quite different
from that suffered by the public in general; and that it is
a continuing injury not adequately remediable by the
ordinary action at law or the action for treble damages
under the Sherman Act, and hence is an irreparable injury in the sight of equity. That there is no particular
animosity towards complainants as individuals-assuming
it to be true-is, in my view, a matter of no consequence.
If evidence of malice be necessary (and I do not think it
is), this is only in the sense that malice consists in the intentional doing of an unlawful act, to the direct damage of
another, without just cause or excuse. Brennan v. United
Hatters, 73 N. J. L. 729, 744.
. Free access to the markets through unobstructed
channels of commerce is the very breath of the life of such
manufacturing establishments; and to say that complainants are not specially injured by the conduct of defendants
seems to me to require that the eyes be closed to the evidence in the case and to the familiar facts of commerce.
I do not understand either of the courts below to have held
as matter of fact that complainants were not specially
injured; but that the District Court (212 Fed. Rep. 267),
while finding in fact that complainants were directly injured, reasoned (erroneously, as I think,) that it was not
such special injury as was contemplated by certain New
York decisions cited.
Section 1 of the Sherman Act declares that
every combination or conspiracy in restraint of trade or commerce
among the several States or with foreign nations is illegal,
and imposes a punishment of fine or imprisonment upon
the guilty parties. It clearly recognizes, what is well
known, that injury to other traders and competitors is
the primary effect of such a combination. A right of
action for damages by a party specially aggrieved would
have followed by implication (Texas & Pacific Ry. Co.

PAINE LUMBER CO. v. NEAL.
244 U. S. PITNEY, McKENNA, and VAN DEVANTER, JJ., dissenting.

v. Rigsby, 241 U. S. 33, 39); and it was doubtless because
treble damages were to be allowed that an express authorization of suit at law was included in the act. Section 7.
The fourth section provides: "The several circuit courts
of the United States are hereby invested with jurisdiction
to prevent and restrain violations of this act; and it shall
be the duty of the several district attorneys of the United
States, in their respective districts, under the direction
of the Attorney-General, to institute proceedings in
equity to prevent and restrain such violations," etc. The
act was designed to be highly remedial, so far as preventing
restraints of trade and commerce is concerned, and the
semi-colon in the sentence just quoted indicates, as I
think, that the grant of jurisdiction was intended to be
general, and that the following clause was intended to
impose a special duty upon the district attorneys to resort
to that jurisdiction whenever, in the discretion of the
Attorney General, a public prosecution should seem to be
called for.
Nor is the omission of an express declaration that persons threatened with special injury through violations
of the act may have relief by injunction, of particular
significance. Declarations of that character are rarely
met with in the legislation of Congress.' The reason is
not far to seek. By § 2 of Article III of the Constitution,
the judicial power is made to extend to "all Cases, in Law
and Equity, arising under this Constitution, the Laws of
the United States," etc. This had the effect of adopting
equitable remedies in all cases arising under the ConstiSection 16 of the so-called Clayton Act of October 15, 1914, c. 323,
38 Stat. 730, 737, contains such a provision; but this was inserted only
because some qf the federal courts had held-erroneously, as I thinkthat private parties could have no relief by injunction against threatened violations of the Sherman Act. These decisions will be discussed
below.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
PITmY, McKENNA,

and

VAN DEVANTER,

JJ., dissenting.

244 U. S.

tution and laws of the United States where such remedies

are appropriate. The federal courts, in exercising their
jurisdiction, are not limited to the remedies existing in
the courts of the respective States, but are to grant relief
in equity according to the principles and practice of the
equity jurisdiction as established in England. Robinson
v. Campbell, 3 Wheat. 212, 221, 223; United States v.
Howland, 4 Wheat. 108, 115; Irvine V. Marshall; 20 How.
558, 565. In United States v. DetroitLumber Co., 200 U. S.
321, 339, the court, by Mr. Justice Brewer, declared:
"It is a mistake to suppose that for the determination of
equities and equitable rights we must look only to the
statutes of Congress. The principles of equity exist independently of and anterior to all Congressional legislation, and the statutes are either annunciations of those
principles or limitations upon their application in particular cases."
To speak accurately, it is not the statute that gives a
right to relief in equity, but the fact that in the particular
case the threatened effects of a continuing violation of the
statute are such as only equitable process can prevent.
The right to equitable relief does not depend upon the
nature or source of the substantive right whose violation
is threatened, but upon the consequences that will flow
from its violation. As the court, by Mr. Justice Field,
declared in Holland v. Challen, 110 U. S. 15, 25: "If the
controversy be one in which a court of equity only can
afford the relief prayed for, its jurisdiction is unaffected
by the character of the questions involved."
To take a familiar example: The Constitution of the
United States does not declare in terms that infringements
,of the rights thereby secured may be prevented by injunction. Ordinarily they may not be. It is only where
a threatened infringement will produce injury and damage for which the law can afford no remedy-such, for
instance, as irreparable and continuing damage, or a

PAINE LUMBER CO. v. NEAL.
244 U. S. PrrINEY, MCKENNA, and VAN DEVANTER, JJ., dissenting.

multiplicity of suits-that resort may be had to equity;
and when this does appear, the right to an injunction arises
because that is the only appropriate relief. Osborn v.
United States Bank, 9 Wheat. 738, 838-845; Pennoyer v.
McConnaughy, 140 U. S. 1, 12, 18; Fargov. Hart, 193 U. S.
490, 503.
So, tax laws rarely, if ever, contain express authorization of an injunction to restrain illegal taxes. And a suit
in equity will not lie on the mere ground that a tax is
illegal. But if, in addition, enforcement of the tax would
lead to a multilicity of suits, or produce irreparable injury, or if the property taxed is real estate and the tax
throws a cloud upon the title, equity will interfere by injunction. Dows v. City of Chicago, 11 Wall. 108, 112;
Hannewinkle v. Georgetown, 15 Wall. 547; Union Pacific
Ry. Co. v. Cheyenne, 113 U. S. 516, 525; Pacific Express
Co. v. Seibert, 142 U. S. 339, 348; Ogden City v. Armstrong,
168 U. S. 224, 237; Ohio Tax Cases, 232 U. S. 576, 587.
The fact that the threatened invasion of plaintiffs'
rights will amount at the same time to an offense against
the criminal laws is no bar to relief by injunction at the
instance of a private party. In re Debs, 158 U. S. 564, 593.
I find nothing in the letter or policy of the Sherman Act
to exclude the application of the ordinary principles of
equity, recognized in the constitutional grant of jurisdiction. Applying them to the facts of the present case,
appellants are entitled to an injunction to restrain the
threatened, continuing, and irreparable injury and damage that otherwise will result from defendants' violation
of the act.
The special duty imposed upon the Attorney General
and the district attorneys is not inconsistent with this
view. The field to be covered by such public prosecutions,
and the objects sought thereby, are quite different from
the scope and effect of an injunction granted to a private
party threatened with special and irreparable injury to

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
PiTNmy,

McKENNA, and VAN DEVANTEP,

JJ., dissenting. 244 U. S.

his property rights through a violation of the act. The
proceeding by the district attorney is a kind of equitable
quo warranto, calculated to bring the entire combination
to an end, whether it be in the form of a corporation or
otherwise. But there may be and are cases of direct and
irreparable injury to private parties resulting from violations of the act, not capable of being redressed through
actions at law under § 7; and justice to the parties aggrieved requires that the act be construed, if the language
admits of such a construction (and I think it does), so
as to allow an injunction to prevent irreparable injury to
a private party, otherwise remediless, without going to
the extent of dissolving the combination altogether, which
in some cases might not be a matter of public interest or
importance. Unless so construed, the act must operate
in many instances to deprive parties of a right of injunction that they would have had without it. So far at least
as boycotting combinations are concerned-and this case
is of that character-the act creates no new offense and
gives no new right of action. Temperton v. Russell, 1893,
1 Q. B. Div. 715; Quinn v. Leathem, 1901, A. C. 495; Barr
v. Essex Trades Council, 53 N. J. Eq. 101, 112-121; Jonas
Glass Co. v. Glass Bottle Blowers' Assn., 77 N. J. Eq. 219,
225.
I find no controlling decision in this court. Minnesota
v. Northern Securities Co., 194 U. S. 48, 71, is not an
authority against the right of complainants to an injunction to prevent special and irreparable damage to their
property rights through a violation of the Sherman Act;
the effect of that decision being merely to deny relief by
injunction to individuals not directly and specially injured.
There the State of Minnesota sued in one of its own courts
under certain statutes of its own, as well as under the
Sherman Act, and the case was removed to the United
States Circuit Court as being one arising under the Constitution and laws of the United States. The purpose of

PAINE LUMBER CO. v. NEAL.
244 U. S. PiTNEY,

MCKENNA,

and

VAN DEVANTER,

JJ., dissenting.

the suit was to annul an agreement and suppress a combination alleged to exist between the defendant railroad
corporations; and the only threatened injury because of
which an injunction was prayed was that the State, being
the owner of large tracts of land whose value depended
upon free and open competition over the lines of railway
involved in the combination, and being the owner of certain public institutions whose supplies must of necessity be
shipped over the same railways, it was alleged that the
successful maintenance of these institutions as well as the
performance by the State of its governmental functions
depended largely upon the value of real and personal
prcperty situate within the State and the general prosperity and business success of its citizens, and that these
in turn depended upon maintaining free and unrestricted
competition between the railway lines involved. The
court, by Mr. Justice Harlan, said (p. 70) that the threatened injury was at most only remote and indirect, and such
as would come alike, although in different degrees, to
every individual owner of property in a State by reason
of the suppression of free competition between interstate
carriers, and was "not such a direct, actual injury as that
provided for in the seventh section of the statute"; and
that upon the view contended, for, "every individual
owner of property in a State may, upon like general
grounds, by an original suit, irrespective of any direct or
special injury to him [italics mine], invoke the original
jurisdiction of a Circuit Court of the United States, to
restrain and prevent violations of the Anti-trust Act of
Congress." It was said further (p. 71): "Taking all the
sections of that act together, we think that its intention
was to limit direct proceedings ,in equity to prevent and
restrain such violations of the Anti-trust Act as cause injury
to the general public, or to all alike, merely from the suppression of competition in trade and commerce among the
several States and with foreign nations, to those instituted

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
PITNEY, McKENNA, and VA

DEVANTER,

in the n- me of the United States.

JJ., dissenting. 214 U. S.
.

.

.

Possibly the

thought of Congress was that by such a limitation upon
suits in equity of a general nature to restrain violations of
the act, irrespective of any direct injury sustained by particular persons or corpora~ions,interstate and international
trade and commerce and those carrying on such trade and
commerce, as well as the general business of the country,
would not be needlessly disturbed by suits brought, on
all sides and in every direction, to accomplish improper
or speculative purposes." [Italics mine.] The reasoning
manifestly proceeds upon the assumption that individuals
sustaining direct and irreparable injury through a continuing violation of the act would be entitled to an injunction.
Wilder Mfg. Co. v. Corn Products Refining Co., 236
U. S. 165, 174, 175, is not in point. There plaintiff in
error, which had purchased, received, and consumed goods
from defendant in error, defended a suit for the price
upon the ground that defendant in error was an illegal
combination in violation of the Sherman Act, and therefore could not sue to recover for goods sold with direct
reference to and in execution of agreements that had for
their object and effect the accomplishment of the illegal
purposes of the combination. The court held that an
individual could not defend a suit brought against him
on his otherwise legal contract by asserting that the corporation or combination suing had no legal existence because of its violations of the act, the statute having cast
upon the Attorney General of the United States the
responsibility of enforcing its provisions in that regard.
The question whether private parties threatened with
injury through violations of the Sherman Act might (prior
to the Clayton Act of October 15, 1914, c. 323, § 16, 38
Stat. 730, 737) have relief by injunction is one upon which
the lower federal courts are not in accord. In the present
case, the District Court, in dismissing the bill upon the

PAINE LUMBER CO. v. NEAL.
244 U. S.

PITNEY, MCKENNA, and VAN DEVANTER, JJ., dissenting.

ground that relief by injunction might be had only at the
instance of the United States (212 Fed. Rep. 259, 266),
merely cited and relied upon National Fireproofing Co. v.
Mason Builders' Association, 169 Fed. Rep. 259, 263.
That case was decided upon the authority of Greer v.
Stoller, 77 Fed. Rep. 1, 3, and Southern Indiana Exp. Co.
v. United States Exp. Co., 88 Fed. Rep. 659, 663. Reference was made also to Bement v. National Harrow Co.,
186 U. S. 70, 87, 88, where the point was assumed arguendo;
Post v. Railroad, 103 Tennessee, 184, 228, where it was
ruled on the authority of 86 Fed. Rep. 407 and 88 Fed.
Rep. 659, 663; and the following cases in the federal courts:
Blindell v. Hagan (C. C.), .54 Fed. Rep. 40, 41; Hagan v.
Blindell (C. C. A.), 56 Fed. Rep. 696; Pidcock v. Harrington (C. C.), 64 Fed. Rep. 821; Gulf &c. R. Co. v. Miami
Steamship Co. (C. C. A.), 86 Fed. Rep. 407, 420; Block v.
Standard Distilling &c. Co. (C. C.), 95 Fed. Rep. 978; and
Metcalf v. 'American School-FurnitureCo. (C. C.), 108 Fed.
Rep. 909. An examination of these cases (including Greer
v. Stoller and Southern Indiana Exp. Co. v. United States
Exp. Co., supra) discloses that Blindell v. Hagan, 54 Fed.
Rep. 40, 41, is the source from which all the others derive
the only. authority they have for the doctrine that under
the Sherman Act the remedy by injunction was available
to the Government only. But one or two of the cases
contain any reasoning upon the question, and that is
meager and unsatisfactory.
Moreover, so far as these cases have held that ,private
parties could have no injunction for a violation of the
Sherman Act (some of them have not so held), the real
ground of decision in Blindell v. Hagan was misunderstood. In that case the jurisdiction of the federal court
was invoked upon the ground of the alienage of complainants, defendants being citizens of the State of Louisiana,
and also upon the ground that defendants were engaged in
a combination in restraint of trade between New Orleans

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
PiTNEY, MCKENNA, and VAN DEVANTER,

JJ., dissenting. 244 U. S.

and Liverpool, contrary to the prohibition of the Sherman
Act. The Circuit Court, in declining to allow an injunction under the act, said: "This act makes all combinations
in restraint of trade or commerce unlawful, and punishes
them by fine or imprisonment, and authorizes suits at law
for triple damages for its violation, but it gives no new
right to bring a suit in equity, and a careful study of the
act has brought me to the conclusion that suits in equity
or injunction suits by any other than the government of
the United States are not authorized by it." Evidently
this was intended to be confined to the question of an express authorization of an injunction for a mere violation
of the act, for the court proceeded to grant preventive
relief on the ground that there was jurisdiction because
of the citizenship of the parties, and that under the ordinary equity jurisdiction an injunction should issue because of the threatened irreparable injury and the inadequacy of pecuniary compensation, and in order to
prevent a multiplicity of suits. Upon appeal the decree
was affirmed, upon the grounds expressed by the court
below, 56 Fed.'Rep. 696. Since there was no infringement
of complainants' rights except through a combination in
restraint of foreign trade, as to which manifestly the
Sherman Act furnished the exclusive rule of law, the effect
of the decision is to allow an injunction to one injured
through a violation of that act if he show in addition the
ordinary grounds for resorting to equity, such as the
probability of irreparable mischief, the inadequacy of a
pecuniary compensation, or the necessity of preventing a
multitude of suits.
So, in Bigelow v. Calumet & Hecla Mining Co. (C. C.),
155 Fed. Rep. 869, 876, the court, after reviewing the
previous decisions, declared (p. 877): "They do not commend themselves to my judgment so far as they deny
the right of a private party, who has sustained special
injury by a violation of the Anti-trust Act, to relief by

PAINE LUMBER CO. v. NEAL.
244 U. S.

PITNEY, McKENNA, and VAN DEVANTER, JJ., dissenting.

injunction under the general equity jurisdiction of the
court. As already seen, the cases referred to do not generally announce such rule."
Aside from their rights under the Act of 1890, I think
appellants are now entitled to an injunction under § 16
of the Clayton' Act-the case clearly being within the
terms of the section-notwithstanding the act took effect
after the final decree in the District Court. In an equity
suit for injunction the reviewing court should decide the
case according to the law as it exists at the time of its
decision. This is not giving a retrospective effect to the
new statute, for the relief granted operates only in futuro
The suggestion, in behalf of defendants, that § 6 of the
Clayton Act 1 establishes a policy inionsistent with relief
.by injunction in such a case as the present, by making
legitimate any acts or practices of labor organizations or
their members that were unlawful before, is wholly inadmissible. The section prohibits restraining members
of such organizations from "lawfully carrying out the
legitimate objects thereof." What these are is indicated
by the qualifying words: "instituted for the purposes of
mutual help, and not having capital stock or conducted
for profit." But these are. protected only when "lawfully
carried out." The section safeguards these organizations
while pursuing their legitimate objects by lawful means,.
and prevents them from being considered, merely because organized, to be illegal combinations or conspiracies
in restraint of trade. The section, fairly construed, has
I "See. 6. That the labor of a human being is not a commodity or
article of commerce. Nothing contained in the antitrust laws shall be

construed to forbid the existence and operation of labor, agricultural,
or horticultural 'organizations, instituted for the purposes of mutual
help, and not having capital stock or conducted for profit, or to forbid
or restrain individual members of such organizations from lawfully
carrying out the legitimate objects thereof; nor shall such organizations,
or the members thereof, be held or construed to be illegal combinations
or conspiracies in restraint of trade, under the antitrust laws."

484,

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.

PITNEY, McKENNA,

and

VAN DEVANTER,

JJ., dissenting. 244 U. S.

no other or further intent or meaning. A reference to the
legislative history -of the measure confirms this view.
House Rep. No. 627, 63d Cong., 2d sess., pp. 2, 14-16;
Senate Rep. No. 698, 63d Cong., 2d sess., pp. 1, 10, 46.
Neither in the language of the section, nor in the committee reports, is there any indication of a purpose to
render lawful or legitimate anything that before the act
was unlawful, Whether in the objects of such an organization or its members or in the measures adopted for accomplishing them.
It is altogether fallacious, I think, to say that what is
being done by the present defendants is done only for
the purpose of strengthening the union. Conceding this
purpose to be lawful, it does not justify or excuse the
resort to unlawful measures for its accomplishment. A
member of a labor union may refuse to work with nonunion men, but this does not entitle him to threaten manufacturers for whom he is not working, and with whom
he has no concern, with loss of trade and a closing of the
channels of interstate commerce against their products
if they do not conduct their business in a manner satisfactory to him.
And the suggestion that, before the Clayton Act, unlawful practices of this kind were usually and notoriously
Tesorted to by labor unions, and that for this reason Congress must have intended to describe them as "legitimate
objects," and thus render lawful what before was unlawful, is a libel upon the labor organizations and a serious
impeachment of Congress.
Nor can I find in § 20 of the Clayton Act anything interfering with the right of complainants to an injunction.
It refers only to cases "between an employer and employees, or between employers and employees, or between
employees, or between persons employed and persons
seeking employment, involving, or growing out of, a dispute concerning terms or conditions of employment."

PAINE LUMBER CO. v. NEAL.
244 U. S. Prrwmy,

McKENNA,

and

VAN DEVANTER,

JJ., dissenting.

These words evidently relate to suits arising from strikes
and similar controversies, and the committee reports
upon the bill bear out this view of the scope of the section.
But this is not such a suit. There is no relation of employer and employee, either present or prospective, between the parties in this case. Defendants who are employees are in one branch of industry in New York City;
complainants are employers of labor in another branch
of industry in distant States. Nor is there any dispute
between them concerning terms or conditions of employment. Section 20 prohibits an injunction restraining any
person "from ceasing to patronize or to employ any
party to such dispute, or from recommending, advising,
or persuading others by peaceful and lawful means so to
do; . . . or from peaceably assembling in a lawful
manner, and for lawful purposes; or from doing any act or
thing which might lawfully be done in the absence of such
dispute by any party thereto."
Clearly, this provision is limited to the participants in
a dispute of the character just indicated. And, quite as
clearly, only "lawful" measures are sanctioned-that is,
of course, measures that were lawful before the act.
There is no grant, in terms or by necessary inference, of
immunity in favor of a boycott of traders in interstate
commerce, violative of the provisions of the Sherman Act,
to which the Clayton Act is supplemental.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

also dissents.

