OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

244 U. S.

NORFOLK sOUTHERN RAILROAD COMPANY v.
CHATMAN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 192. Argued April 20, 1917.-Decided May 21, 1917.
Under the doctrine established by Railroad Company v. Lockwood,
17 Wall. 357, and many cases decided since, a person traveling by
railroad as a caretaker of live stock on a "free" or "drover's" pass
is a passenger for hire as to whom a stipulation that the carrier shall
not be liable for personal injuries caused by its negligence is void.
As applied to caretakers of live stock, § 1 of the Hepburn Act of
June 29, 1906, uses the term "free pass" in the sense which established custom had given it and judicial determination had sanctioned long before the act, viz., as meaning not a gratuitous pass
but one issued for a consideration constituting the caretaker a
passenger for hire, within the doctrine of the Lockwood Case. Charleston & Western Carolina Ry. Co. v. Thompson, 234 U. S. 576, distinguished.
Where a connecting carrier, sued for personal injuries by a person
traveling on a drover's pasg, based its defense on a release of liability
for negligence contained in the contract of carriage issued by, and
in accordance with the tariffs of, the initial carrier, under the Carmack Amendment, Held that it was estopped from claiming also
that under its own tariff the issuance of such passes was forbidden
and unlawful and that therefore such traveler was unlawfully upon
its train.
A provision in a tariff that "free or reduced transportation shall not
be issued for shippers or caretakers in charge of live stock shipand such shippers or caretakers shall pay full
ments,
fare returning," is construed as implying that such transportation
will be allowed to the destination of the shipment, but not for tho
return trip of the caretaker.
When connecting interstate carriers, in accordance with tariffs-of the
initial carrier duly filed and published, contract to carry a shipment
of live stock with a caretaker for a specified rate in money, the carriage quoad the caretaker is a carriage for money, part of the total
rate, and the mere fact that the part attributable to the caretaker is

NORFOLK SOUTHERN R. R. CO. v. CHATMAN. 277
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

not stated separately in a passenger tariff does not render the contract to carry him invalid under the Act to Regulate Commerce.
Separation of the rate in such a case is an administrative matter
affecting the form of tariffs, which is committed to the Interstate
Commerce Commission by § 6 of the Commerce Act, as amended,
and concerning which the courts will not interfere in advance of
application to the Commission.
222 Fed. Rep. 802, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. C. M. Bain (by special leave), with whom Mr. John
H. Small, Mr. W. B. Rodman and Mr,J. Kenyon Wilson
were on the briefs, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Charles Whedbee and Mr. P. W. McMullan for
defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE delivered the opinion of the court.

The judgment obtained in this case by the plaintiff
in the District Court, W. C. Chatman, affirmed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, is here
for review on writ of error.
On December 1, 1911, the plaintiff below (hereinafter
designated as the plaintiff) delivered to the Pennsylvania
Railroad Company at Jersey City a carload of horses to
be carried to Hertford, N. C., and was tendered by an
agent of the company for his signature, the customary
"Uniform Live Stock Contract" of the Pennsylvania
Company, the essential provisions of which are printed
in the margin.'
1 The provisions of the contract essential to be considered are, in substance, that the company had received from Chatman a carload of
horses for transportation to Port Norfolk for Hertford, N. C., "with
W. C. Chatman in charge;"' and that it was received by the Pennsylvania Company "for itself and on behalf of connecting carriers for

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

This contract was retained by the company but from it
was detached a "coupon" which was given to Chatman,
containing, in substance, an acknowledgment that he had
delivered live stock of the kind and nature therein described, consigned to W. C. Chatman, destination Port
Norfolk, Va., for Hertford, N. C., "W. C. Chatman, man
transportation, subject to the official tariffs, classifications and rules
of the said company"; and "that the said shipper is at his own sole
risk and expense to load and take care of and feed and water said stock
whilst being transported

.

.

.

and neither said carrier nor any

connecting carrier is to be under any liability or duty with reference
thereto, except in the actual transportation of the same

.

.

.

That

the shipper shall see that all doors and openings in said car or cars are
at all times so closed and fastened as to prevent the escape therefrom
of any of the said stock." It further provided that in consideration of
the premises and of the carriage of a person or persons in charge of said
stock upon a freight train of said carrier or its connecting carriers without charge, other than the sum paid or to be paid for the transportation
of the live stock in his or her charge, that the said shipper shall and will
indemnify and save harmless said carrier and every connecting carrier
from all claims and liabilities of every kind, by reason of personal injury
sustained by the person in charge of said stock, whether the same be
caused by the negligence of said carrier or any connecting carrier, or
otherwise.
There was printed upon this contract, as a part of it, the following:
"RELEASE FOR MAN OR MEN IN CHARGE.
"In consideration of the carriage of the undersigned upon a freight
train of the carrier or carriers named in the within contract without
charge, other than the sum paid or to be paid for the carriage upon said
freight train of the livestock mentioned in said contract, of which livestock

.

.

.

in charge, the undersigned does hereby voluntarily

assume all risks of accidents or damage to his person or property, and
does hereby release and discharge the said carrier or carriers from every
and all claims, liabilities and demands of every kind, nature and description for or on account of any personal injury or damage of any
kind sustained by the undersigned so in charge of said stock, whether
the same be caused by the negligence of the said carrier or carriers or
any of its or their employees or otherwise.
(signature of man in charge)
W. C. CHATMAN."

NORFOLK SOUTHERN R. R. CO. v. CHATMAN. 279
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in charge." Without other pass or ticket than this "coupon" and without other payment than the published
tariff on the carload of stock, the Pennsylvania Railroad
Company carried the plaintiff, with his carload of horses,
on a freight train to Norfolk, Virginia, where the car was
delivered to and accepted by the defendant company for
transportation to its destination.
The plaintiff testifies that defendant's conductor saw
him and knew he was on the car up to the time the accident
complained of occurred.
The car in which the horses and the plaintiff were being
carried was derailed on defendant's line, and the plaintiff,
being injured, sued for damages and secured the judgment
which we have before us.
The negligence of the defendant is not disputed.
On this record the defendant claims two defenses, the
first of which is:
That the plaintiff is not entitled to recover, because,
when injured, he was traveling on a free pass issued pursuant to the terms of the live stock contract in which he
had released the carriers from all liability for any personal
injury which he might sustain, thus bringing his claim
within the authority of Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Adams,
192 U. S. 440.
In Railroad Company v. Lockwood, 17 Wall. 357, 384,
it was decided that a person traveling on a "drover's
pass," issued upon a live stock contract precisely similar
in its terms to that which we have in this case, was a
passenger for hire and that a release from liability for
injuries caused by the carrier's negligence was void because a common carrier could not lawfully stipulate for
such exemption.
This decision was rendered in 1873, and has been frequently approved: Railway Company v. Stevens, 95 U. S.
655; Liverpool & Great Western Steam Co. v. Phenix Insurance Co., 129 U. S. 397; Baltimore & Ohio Southwestern

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

Ry. Co. v. Voigt, 176 U. S. 498, 505; Santa Fe, Prescott &
Phenix Ry. Co. v. Grant Brothers Construction Co., 228
U. S. 177, 184; Pierce Co. v. Wells, Fargo & Co., 236 U. S.
278, 283. This court continues of the opinion expressed
by it in 1900, in Baltimore & Ohio Southwestern Ry. Co. v.
Voigt, supra, that the Lockwood Case must "be regarded as
establishing a settled rule of policy."
But the plaintiff in error claims that this rule is no
longer applicable to such a case as this we are considering,
for the reason that, while the plaintiff as the shipper of the
stock was within the exception of § 1 of the amendment
to the act "to regulate commerce" of June 29, 1906,
34 Stat. 584, prohibiting the issuance of any "interstate . . . free pass . . . except . . . to necessary care takers of live stock, poultry and fruit"'yet
this exception permitted him to travel free of charge upon
a "free pass or free transportation," and not as a passenger
for hire on a free pass, which would be a contradiction in
terms.
The Lockwood Case shows that live stock contracts such
as we have here, providing for the transportation of caretakers of stock on free passes, were in use by carriers as
early as 1859 (17 Wall. 357, 365), and that they have continued in use up to this time is apparent from the decisions
hereinbefore cited, from the case at bar and from many
recently reported cases. Tripp v. Michigan Central R. R.
Co., 238 Fed. Rep. 449. Notwithstanding the fact, as
we have seen, that such transportation has been declared
by a long line of decisions not to be "free" in the popular
sense, but to be transportation for hire, with all of the legal
incidents of paid transportation, the carriers of the country have continued to issue it and to designate it as
"free."
With this legal and commercial history before us we
must conclude that the designation "free pass," as applied
to transportation issued or given by railroad companies to

NORFOLK SOUTHERN R. R. CO. v. CHATMAN. 281
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

shippers and caretakers of stock, had acquired a definite
and well known meaning, sanctioned by the decisions of
this court and widely by the decisions of the courts of the
various States, long prior to the enactment of June 29,
1906, and that, therefore, Congress must be presumed to
have used the designation "free pass" in the sense given
to it by this judicial determination when, in § 1 of that
act, by specific exception, it permitted the continuance of
the then long established custom of issuing free transportation or passes to shippers or caretakers of live stock.
Kepner v. United States, 195 U. S. 100; Lawder v. Stone,
187 U. S. 281, 293; Sutherland on Statutory Construction,
§ 333.
It results that the "settled rule of policy" established
by the Lockwood Case, and the decisions following it, must
be considered unmodified by the Act to Regulate Commerce, that the plaintiff in charge of his stock, traveling
upon a pass permitted to be issued by that act, was a
passenger for hire, and that defendant's first claim must
therefore be denied.
The claim of the defendant that the plaintiff was unlawfully upon its train because its published tariff did not
allow the issuing of such a pass as that which the plaintiff
was using when injured is without merit.
The extract from the defendant's tariff relied upon to
sustain this claim reads:
"Free or reduced transportation shall not be issued. for
shippers or caretakers in charge of live stock shipments,
whether carloads or less, and such shippers or caretakers
shall pay full fare returning."
It is sufficient answer to this claim to say that the railroad company is here defending under the release from
liability contained in a contract of carriage, issued as required by law (§ 7 of the Act of June 29, 1906, 34 Stat.
595), pursuant to the published tariffs of its connecting,
the initial carrier, the Pennsylvania Railroad Company,

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

and it will not be heard in the courts to urge the inconsistent defense that its own tariff made unlawful this contract
on which in the alternative it relies.
To this we add that passes for caretakers, not only to
destination but returning to point of shipment, were
formerly general (Cleveland, Painesville &c. R. R. Co. v.
Curran, 19 Ohio St. 1), and in some parts of the country
are still issued (Kirkendall v. Union Pacific R. R. Co., 200
Fed. Rep. 197, 200), and that, in our opinion, the language of the notice quoted, while obscurely worded,'
implies that such passes will be issued by the defendant
to destination of the shipment and was intended as notice
to shippers that return passes would not be allowed. The
meaning now claimed for this notice would have been unmistakably expressed without the final clause "and such
shippers or caretakers shall pay full fare returning."
Why "returning" if full fare were also to be paid "going"? Tariffs must not be made cunningly devised nets
in which to entangle unsuspicious or inexperienced
shippers.
The second defense of the railroad company is in the
alternative, and must be considered because its first defense has failed.
This claim is that under the Interstate Commerce Law
payment for the transportation of passengers for hire could
be made only in money, and at a rate stated in a tariff
filed and published in the manner required by law; that
no separate payment for plaintiff's transportation was
made in money, and the consideration for, it must be
found, if at all, incorporated in the rate charged for the
stock or in the service which he was to renler in caring for
it in transit, and that, as neither of these was separately
stated in any filed and published tariff the plaintiff's
presence upon the car was unlawful and he should not
recover for injuries sustained.
In the consideration of this second claim of the defend-

NORFOLK SOUTHERN R. R. CO. v. CHATMAN. 283
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ant these facts appearing of record are decisive: The defendant relies for its defense upon the terms of the live
stock contract entered into between its connecting carrier
the Pennsylvania Company and the plaintiff and, averring
in its answer that it received the shipment of horses "in
accordance with the terms of the said contract," it claims
immunity from liability for damages to the plaintiff under
the declaration of that contract, that: "In consideration
of the carriage of the undersigned [plaintiff] upon a freight
train of the carrier or carriers named in the within contract without charge, other than the sum paid or to be
paid for the carriage .
.
of the live stock" the
plaintiff assumed the risk of accident and released said
carrier or carriers from all liability to him for any injury
which he might sustain.
While the record is not as clear as could be wished the
excerpts which it contains from the filed tariffs of the
Pennsylvania Company and the live stock contract, both
introduced in evidence by the defendant, justify the conclusion, frtainly as against the defendant, that the contract was a part of the tariffs of the Pennsylvania Company filed and published according to law and that the
defendant is bound by its terms.
Treating this live stock contract as a part of the lawfully published tariffs of the Pennsylvania Company, under
which the contract for the carriage of the plaintiff was
made, and by which the defendant confesses itself bound,
it is clear that such tariffs show the two carriers declaring
that for the published rate payable in money the plaintiff's
carload of stock and the plaintiff himself, as a caretaker,
would be carried on freight trains from Jersey City to the
North Carolina destination, and as we have seen the law
declares that a caretaker so carried is a passenger for
hire against whom the release of liability on which the
defendant relies must be treated as uireasonable and
void.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

The objection that the published tariff of the Pennsylvania Company did not specify how much of the stipulated
payment by the plaintiff should be treated as payment
for the transportation of the stock and how much for the
transportation of the caretaker, and that the payment for
the carriage of the plaintiff was not separately stated in a
passenger tariff, cannot be considered in this case for the
reason that the Act to Regulate Commerce (§ 6,, as
amended June 29, 1906, June 18, 1910, and August 24,
1912) commits to the Interstate Commerce Commission
the determining and prescribing of the form in which
tariff schedules shall be prepared and arranged, and this
is an obviously administrative function with which the
courts will not interfere in advance of a prior application
to the Interstate Commerce Commission. Atchison,
Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. United States, 232 U. S. 199,
221; Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. American Tie & Timber
Co., 234 U. S. 138.
It results that the second claim of the defendant must
be rejected because the fare of the plaintiff was paid in
money pursuant to published tariffs, which clearly showed
the terms of the shipment of the stock with transportation
for the plaintiff included, in a form which in the state of
this record must be considered as having been satisfactory
to the Interstate Commerce Commission, to which the
determination of such form was committed by law.
The claim that Charleston & Western CarolinaRy. Co.
v. Thompson, 234 U. S. 576, rules this case cannot be
allowed, for the sufficient reason that the plaintiff in that
case was found to be traveling upon a gratuitous pass,
issued without consideration to a member of the family
of an employee. Behind such a pass there lay no such
background of court decision and of railroad practice as
we have here, giving definite interpretation to the statute
as applied to "caretakers' passes" and therefore that case
fell without the scope of the Lockwood decision and within

RAILROAD SUPPLY CO. v. ELYRIA IRON CO. .285
244 U. S.

Syllabus.

the principle of Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Adams, 192
U. S. 440, and Boering v. Chesapeake Beach Ry. Co., 193
U. S. 442.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.

RAILROAD SUPPLY COMPANY v. ELYRIA IRON
& STEEL COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 95. Argued April 17, 18, 1917.-Decided May 21, 1917.
The following patents, viz., No. 538,809, of May 7, 1895, No. 691,332,
of January 14, 1902, and No. 721,644, of February 24, 1903, all
granted to one Wolhaupter for alleged new and useful improvements
in railroad tie plates, are here examined in respect of certain of their
claims in comparison with the prior art, and are held invalid for
want of novelty and invention.
Flanges and teeth projecting from the under surfaces of tie plates, for
the purpose of holding them to the ties, and flanges or shoulders
on the upper surfaces, designed to receive and resist the lateral
thrust of the rails and thus preserve the gauge of the track, having
been described in earlier patents and become well known, invention
in the Wolhaupter plates is left to depend upon the method of combining strength with economy -by providing flanges upon the upper
surfaces for the rails to rest upon; but this feature also, besides
having been in substance anticipated by earlier patents, is held to be
no more than the product of ordinary mechanical skill, 'since resort
to channels, grooves and corrugations was a familiar method of reducing the cost of iron plates by reducing their weight without decreasing their strength.
A patentee is presumed to have had all prior patents before him when
he applied for his patent.
Mere carrying forward of the original thought, a change only in form,
proportions or degree, doing the same thing in the same way, by

