GULF, COLORADO &c. RY. v. TEXAS PACKING CO. 31
244 U. S.

Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

GULF, COLORADO & SANTA FE RAILWAY COMPANY v. TEXAS"PACKING COMPANY ET AL.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS, THIRD SUPREME
JUDICIAL DISTRICT, OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 334.

Argued December 6, 1916.-Decided May 7, 1917.

A case involving rights arising from through bills of lading issued
under the Carmack Amendment is reviewable by this court upon
writ of error to a state court. St. Louis, Iron Mountain & Southern By. Co. v. Starbird, 243 U. S. 592.
-By request of the shipper and by action of the carriers in dealing with
the freight accordingly, a shipment governed by the Carmack
Amendment and. bills of lading thereunder may be diverted from
the original destination and the original bills of lading be continued
in force as applicable to the new destination.
When the bill of lading provides that the liability of any carrier for
damage to goods shall be computed on the basis of the value of the
goods-the bona fide invoice price to the consigne-at place and
time of shipment, the difference between that value and the value
of the goods when deliveied at a new destination, to which they have
been diverted under such bill of lading by consent of the parties,
is a proper measure of damages suffered in transit.
So held when the goods were damaged when they reached the original
destination and were sold, in bad condition, by the shipper at the
new destination.
In such case the shipper discharges his duty to the carrier when he
sells the goods at the new destination for the best price obtainable.
Under the Carmack Amendment an initial carrier sued for negligent
damage to goods is not entitled to recover over against a connecting
carrier which did not contribute to such damage.
172 S. W. Rep. 195, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr.Alexander Britton, with whom Mr. GardinerLathrop,
Mr. J. W. Terry, Mr. Evans Browne and Mr. A. H. Cul-

well were on the brief, for plaintiff in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

Mr. W. 0. Cox and Mr. FrederickS. Tyler for defendant
in error Texas Packing Company, submitted.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
Defendant in error, Texas Packing Company, brought
its action in the District Court of Bell County, Texas,
against the Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fe Railway Company,
plaintiff in error, to recover damages growing out of a
series of shipments of dressed poultry from Temple, Texas,
to St. Louis, Missouri, but which were re-routed over the
line of the Wabash Railroad Company from St. Louis to
Chicago. The shipments were on bills of lading among the
terms of which was the following: "Iced to full capacity
at Temple with crushed ice adding 12% salt. Re-ice at
all regular icing.stations with crushed ice using 12% salt."
The Packing Company in its petition, after averring the
necessity of proper icing and the contract to that effect
between it and the carrier, alleged negligence on the part
of the carriers in failing to re-ice the poultry properly and
regularly, as a result of which plaintiff claimed damages
in the sum of $12,202.87.
The Santa Fe Company answered, denying the allegations of the petition, and alleging the absence of a contract of carriage from Temple to Chicago, and averred by
way of cross-petition that, under the terms of the bills of
lading, its obligation was to carry the shipments and
deliver them within a reasonable length of time to its
connecting line en route to destination, and that it did
within a reasonable time carry and safely deliver the shipments in good and proper condition, or in such condition
as they were received by it, to its connecting line, the
Wabash Railroad Company; that, under the terms of the
bills of lading, the liability of each carrier was distinctly
limited to all such loss and injury as occurred while the
shipments were in its possession, and that there was no
loss or injury to the shipments while the same were in its

GULF, COLORADO &c. RY. v. TEXAS PACKING CO. 33
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

possession; that any loss or injury thereto was the result
of the negligence of the plaintiff or the Wabash Railroad
Company, and that it is not responsible herein for any of
the losses or injuries complained of in plaintiff's petition;
that the Santa Fe Company, being the initial carrier, was
made responsible under the act of Congress for all loss or
injury occurring en route, but 'that under said act it is
entitled to vouch in the Wabash Railroad Company and
recover over and against it for any loss or injury occasioned
to the shipments in question through its negligence, and
that, if there was any negligence of any carrier which resulted in loss to plaintiffs, the same was the negligence of
the Wabash Railroad Company.
Accordingly, the Wabash Railroad Company was made
a defendant and-filed an answer, asserting that it was not
a proper party to the suit, and denying that it was guilty
of the negligence complained of. It further -averred that
the shipments were delivered at Chicago in the same
condition as when it (the Wabash Company) had received
them, and that it received and transported the shipments
by virtue of a contract with the plaintiff to which the
Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fe Railway Company was not a
party or in any way interested, and prayed a dismissal
with its costs.
It appears from the record that the shipments were separately billed from Temple, Texas, to St. Louis, Missouri,
at dates varying from December 24th to December 30th,
1910; that upon January 4th, 1911, the shipper requested
the carrier's agent, at Temple, by telephone, to divert tb,-)
five cars from St. Louis to Chicago; that the agent said
he would, asked where the bills of lading were, and upon
being told that they were in St. Louis, said that the carrier's representative in St. Louis would perhaps see that
the notations of the diversion were made upon the bills;
that no new bills were issued, and that thereupon the
shipments were continued to Chicago.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

Concerning the stipulation as to icing in transit at
"all regular icing stations," there is testimony tending
to show the cars were in fact re-iced en route to St. Louis
at all but one regular station,-Shawnee, Oklahoma, but
the failure to re-ice at this point resulted in a lapse of from
28 to 54 hours without ice and salt.
Upon the issues made the jury found for the Packing
Company against the Santa Fe Railway Company, and
upon the issue between the Santa Fe and Wabash Companies the verdict was in favor of the Wabash Company.
The District Court rendered judgment accordingly, and
the case was taken to the Court of Civil Appeals, where
the judgment of the District Court was affirmed. 172
S. W. Rep. 195.
As the case involves rights set up and denied which
arose upon through bills of lading issued under the Carmack Amendment, it is properly reviewable here. St. Louis,
Iron Mountain & Southern Ry. Co. v. Starbird, 243 U. S.
592. Indeed, both parties admit that the federal statute
controls, and the case must be decided under its provisions.
As required by the Texas statute (Art. 1639 of the Revised Statutes of Texas, 1911), the Court of Civil Appeals
made findings of fact, in which it said:
"The verdict of the jury is amply supported by testimony, and we therefore make findings of fact to the
effect that appellant breached its contract of shipment,
as alleged in appellee's petition, and that, as a result of that
breach, the property which was shipped was injured and
damaged to the extent found by. the jury and that the
proof failed to show that any of the damage referred to
was caused by the Wabash Railroad Company."
The plaintiff in error, in urging certain grounds for the
reversal of the judgment of the Court of Civil Appeals,
contends that the District Court erred in charging the
jury as to the measure of damages. On that subject the
District Court charged the jury as follows:

GULF, COLORADO &c. RY. v. TEXAS PACKING CO. 35
244 U., S.

Opinion of the Court.

"(4) If you find for the plaintiff you will assess the
damages at the difference between the invoice price of said
poultry, to-wit, the sum of Twenty Two Thousand Two
Hundred Thirty-Eight and 56/100 ($22,238.56) Dollars,
and the value of said poultry at the time the same was
delivered to plaintiff or its agents, the Western Cold
Storage Company in Chicago, by the carrier, with six
per cent interest per annum from January 15th, 1911."
This interstate shipment was governed by the terms of
the Carmack Amendment, requiring the initial carrier
to issue a receipt or bill of lading, and as this court frequently has held, with the effect of making such contract
the measure of liability between the parties. It 'is insisted that inasmuch as-the bill of lading made St. Louis
the point of destination, it is immaterial what the value of
the property was in Chicago, to which point the goods
were shipped, having been sold in transit to a company
in that city. On this point the record shows that the bills
of lading covered the shipment of five cars of dressed
poultry from Temple, Texas, to St. Louis, where they were
consigned to the "order of the Texas Packing Company,
notify St. Louis Refrigerating and Cold Storage Company." There is testimony to show that the poultry while
in transit was sold in Chicago, and that while the cars
were in St. Louis on the sidetrack of the St. Louis Refrigerating & Cold Storage Company the shipper called upon
the agent of the Santa Fe Company at Temple to divert
the cars to Chicago. The testimony also shows that the
promised to do so; said that he would wire a repagent
resentative of the railway company in St. Louis to divert
the cars; that no new bills of lading were issued; that the
agent asked for the original bills of lading and was told
that they were in St. Louis, and said that the representative of the carrier there would perhaps call at the bank
and make the proper notations thereon.
It is fairly inferable from the evidence that the bills of

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

lading originally issued were continued in force by the
action of the parties, simply changing the place of destination, and remained binding contracts when the Santa Fe
Company accepted the diversion of the shipment from
St. Louis to Chicago.
The bills of lading contained this stipulation:
"The amount of any loss or damage for which any
carrier is liable shall be computed on the basis of the value
of the property (being the bona fide invoice price, if any,
to the consignee, including the freight charges if prepaid)
at the place and time of shipment unider this bill of lading,
unless a lower value has been represented in writing by
the shipper or has been agreed upon or is determined by
the classification or tariffs upon which the rate is based,
in any of which events such lower value shall be the maximum amount to govern such computation, whether or
not such loss or damage occurs from negligence."
The ,testimony showed that the invoice price of the poultry at Temple to the Packing Company was $22,238.56,
and that the poultry was worth at least that sum at
Temple at the time of shipment. We think that in taking
this sum as the basis of computing damages the trial court
did but enforce the stipulation in the bills of lading. That
sum was the bonafide invoice price to the consignee, which
the bills provided was to be the basis of recovery in case
of loss or damage. We think the court properly charged
the jury to take the difference between this invoice price
and the value of the poultry at the time the same was
delivered in Chicago in arriving at the amount of damages.
No question is raised in this case as to the right of the
plaintiff to recover also the freight paid. See Pennsylvania
R. R. Co. v. Olivit Bros., 243 U. S. 574.
The testimony shows that the poultry reached St. Louis
in poor condition and that the cars were there re-iced and
forwarded to Chicago, where the poultry was delivered,
still in bad condition; and really unfit 1or market. It was

GULF, COLORADO &c. RY. v. TEX)kS PACKING CO. 37
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

nevertheless sold for the best price which could be obtained. When the poultry reached Chicago in that condition, the consignee discharged its duty to the Railway
Company when it sold the damaged goods for what could
be obtained for them.
The testimony shows that the poultry was taken to a
storage company at Chicago, where it was kept until
it could be sold, and ultimately realized the sum of
$10,035.69. The jury returned a verdict, under the instruction of the court to deduct the value of the property
at Chicago from the invoice price, in the sum of $9,000
and interest. Evidently, in this state of the record, no
harm was done to the rights of the plaintiff in error in
assessing the sum which the- jury awarded against it.
We cannot agree with the contention of the plaintiff in
error that the value of the deteriorated poultry at Temple
or St. Louis should have been taken as the sum to be
deducted from the invoice basis of value.
Apart from the stipulation of these bills of lading, the
ordinary measure of damages in cases of this sort is the
difference between the market value of the property in
the condition in which it should have arrived at the place
of destination and its market value in the condition in
which, by reason of the fault of the carrier, it did arrive.
New York, Lake Erie & Western R. R. Co. v. Estill, 147
U. S. 591, 616. The stipulations of these bills of lading
changed
this place
rule in the requirement that the invoice
price
at the
of shipment should be the basis for
assessing the damages.
The poultry in fact had no market price at Temple or
elsewhere. It was badly deteriorated, and when the shipper sold it at the point of destination for the best price
it would bring he did all that could be fairly required of
him to save the carrier from resulting loss.
The trial court charged that the Santa Fe Company was
entitled to a recovery against the Wabash Railroad Coin-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

pany if the jury found that the Santa Fe Company and
Wabash Railroad Company were both guilty of negligence
in the handling of the poultry, in which event the jury
were told that the Santa Fe Company would be entitled
to a verdict against the Wabash Railroad Company for
that part of the sum to which the Wabash Company had
contributed by its negligence to plaintiff's injury. It is
urged by the plaintiff in error that the Santa Fe Company
as the initial carrier, regardless of its own negligence, was
entitled to recover against the Wabash Company in proportion as the negligence of that company contributed to
the loss; and it is contended that the testimony tends to
show that the Wabash Railroad Company did not properly re-ice and otherwise care for the poultry in transit.
The record shows no proper exception reserved upon which
to base this criticism; and the question becomes immaterial
in view of the verdict of the jury in favor of the Wabash
Railroad Company, and the express finding of the Court
oi Civil Appeals that the proof failed to show that any
of the damages had been caused by the Wabash Railroad
Company.
We find no error in the judgment of the court below,
and it is
Affirmed.

