OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

244 U. S.

SANTA FE PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v.
LANE, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 170.

Argued April 18, 1917.-Decided June 11, 1917.

In view of the power reserved to add to, alter, amend or repeal the act
granting land to the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company
(July 27, 1866, c. 278, 14 Stat. 292), and of the grantee's failure to
comply with the conditions as to construction, Congress, without
violating any vested right and consistently with the Fifth Amendment, could lay upon the grantee the cost of surveying the lands
granted and require payment thereof as a condition to the issuance of
patents, as was in fact done, in respect of said company, by the general provision in the Act of July 31, 1876, c. 246, 19 Stat. 121.
The construction placed by the Land Department upon the Act of
1876, supra, to the effect that it required the grantee to pay only a
share of the cost of surveying and sectionizing a township proportional to the area of its granted lands (odd sections) within that
township, was not only reasonable but, being undoubtedly known
to Congress, must be deemed to have been approved by and in
effect incorporated in the Act of June 25, 1910, c. 406, 36 Stat. 834,
which makes no change in the grantee's obligation beyond advancing
the time of payment.
This view is corroborated by the Senate and House committee reports
preceding and explaining the Act of 1910.
As a demand by the Secretary of the Interior based on the Act of 1910,
supra, that the railroad grantee make a deposit to cover the entire
cost of surveying a township, in which only part of the lands belongs
to such grantee, is clearly unwarranted by those acts, its effectuation
may be enjoined if the other elements requisite to such relief are
present.
The claim 'evidenced by such a demand casts a serious cloud on the
large areas of other unsurveyed land in the railroad grants and
therein threatens the grantee with serious embarrassment; and the
provision in the Act of 1910 for forfeiture if the demand be not complied with, to be followed by proceedings by the Attorney General,
is also to be considered as a reason for equitable relief.

SANTA FE PACIFIC R. R. CO. v. LANE.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The grantee is not required, in order to test the validity of such a demand, to adopt the hazardous and embarrassing course of ignoring it
and defending such suit as the Attorney General may institute under
the Act of 1910.
The Secretary of the Interior having demanded under the Act of 1910,
supra, an amount equal to the entire cost of surveying certain townships of which the railroad grantee could not lay claim to more than
half, a tender of one-half the amount demanded was adequate.
43 App. D. C. 497, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Alexander Britton, with whom Mr. Evans Browne
and Mr. Francis W. Clements were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Kearful for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of

the court.
This is a suit to enjoin the Secretary of the Interior from
insisting upon or giving effect to a demand heretofore
made by him on the plaintiff to the effect that the latter
make an advance deposit, under the Act of June 25, 191.0,
c. 406, 36 Stat. 834, of $5,500 to cover the cost of surveying
certain lands within the primary limits of the land grant
made by the Act of July 27, 1866, c. 278, 14 Stat. 292,
to the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company, to whose
rights the plaintiff has succeeded. The court of first
instance refused the injunction and dismissed the bill,
and its action was affirmed. 43 App. D. C. 497.
The land grant was made in aid of the construction of a
proposed railroad from Missouri through Arizona to the
Pacific Ocean, and included, subject to exceptions not
here material, every alternate -odd-numbered section of
public land within defined limits on either side of the road.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

The lands along the proposed road had not been surveyed
at the date of the grant, but the President was to cause
them to be surveyed as the construction proceeded; and
as each twenty-five miles of road was completed patents
were to be issued for the granted lands lying opposite
that section. The grant was made upon condition that
construction be commenced within two years and that
not less than fifty miles of road be completed during each
year thereafter; and the granting act was declared to be
subject to addition, alteration, amendment or repeal by
Congress, due regard being had for the rights of the
grantee. Although expressly contemplating that the
granted lands should be surveyed along with the other
lands on each side of the road, the granting act said nothing about who should bear the cost of the survey. At first
the grantee did not proceed with the construction at the
rate prescribed (Atlantic & Pacific .R. R. Co. v. Mingus,
165 U. S. 413, 442; House Report No. 193, 49th Cong.,
1st sess.), and during the continuance of this default Congress incorporated in the appropriation act of July 31,
1876, c. 246, 19 Stat. 121, a provision requiring the grantee,
as also other similar grantees, to pay for the survey of the
granted lands and directing that this be done in advance
of the issue of the patents. This provision, it is contended,
infringed upon the vested rights of the grantee and therefore was repugnant to the due process of law clause of the
Fifth Amendment to the Constitution. But in view of
the grantee's default and the reserved power to add to,
alter, amend or repeal the granting act, the contention
must be held untenable. This necessarily follows from
the decisions in Northern PacificR. R. Co. v. Traill County,
115 U. S. 600, and New Orleans Pacific Ry. Co. v. United
States, 124 U. S. 124.
Under the rectangular system of surveying the public
lands, which long has been in force, they axe divided into
townships and sections bounded by north and south and

SANTA FE PACIFIC R. R. CO. v. LANE.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

east and west lines. A township consists of, thirty-six
sections--each approximately one mile square-arranged
in six rows and progressively numbered by starting with
the northeasterly one and proceeding west through the
upper row, then east through the second row and then
alternately west and east through the others. Rev.
Stats., ยง 2395. A township has the same number of oddnumbered sections that it has of even-numbered ones and
the two are so arranged that they alternate just as do the
different colored squares on a checker board. The only
lines run in the course of the survey are the township lines
and the exterior section lines and the only monuments
erected or placed are those which mark these lines. Every
section line is a boundary between two sections, one having
an odd and the other an even number. A township cannot
be divided until its exterior lines are established, and the
lines of the alternate odd-numbered sections cannot be
established without at the same time and by the same
acts establishing the lines of the even-numbered sections.
In short, the system is such that a township is surveyed
as a unit.
With this surveying system in mind, the officers of the
Land Department construed the provision of 1876 as intended to charge the grantee with the cost of surveying
the granted lands, and not with the cost of surveying the
township. A plan for dividing the cost on an acreage basis
between the granted and the ungranted lands was accordingly adopted. By it, if the granted lands constituted
half the total area, as they would where all the oddnumbered sections passed under the grant, the grantee was
charged with half the total cost. This plan was followed
uniformly as to all the land grants coming within the
purview of that provision up to the passage of the Act of
June 25, 1910, supra. Of the terms of this act it suffices
to say in this connection that it requires the cost of surveying the "lands granted" to be deposited within ninety

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

days after a demand by the Secretary of the Interior
specifying the amount required and the lands to be surveyed. It makes no other change in the duty or obligation of the grantee. In other words, what is to be paid
remains the same as before, but the time for payment is
advanced. Following this act the officers of the Land
Department adhered to the view that the cost to be paid
was that of surveying the granted lands and continued
to divide the cost of surveying the township according
to the plan previously adopted, save as a different course
was pursued in this and possibly a few other instances.
The demand by the Secretary out of which this suit
arose relates to the survey of four townships in Arizona
the odd-numbered sections of which are claimed by the
plaintiff under the grant of 1866. The amount specified
in the demand is the estimated cost of surveying these
townships and not a proportional part of the total cost
corresponding to the acreage of the granted lands. The
townships lie opposite the constructed portion of the road
and, speaking generally, the plaintiff's right to the oddnumbered sections is not questioned; indeed, it is the
basis of the Secretary's demand. The townships also lie
within the limits of a forest reserve, but this does not
affect the plaintiff's rights under the grant, for the reserve was established long after the road was constructed.
The construction which the officers of the Land Department placed upon the provision of 1876, if not the
only permissible one, was obviously both reasonable and
equitable. Their uniform adherence to it for over thirty
years prior to the Act of 1910 gave it additional force,
and when Congress, with undoubted knowledge of what
had been done, chose, as it did in passing that act, to
leave the terms of the former provision undisturbed, save
as the time for payment was advanced, the departmental
construction received a further sanction which, in effect,
incorporated it into the statute. Convincing evidence

SANTA FE PACIFIC R. R. CO. v. LANE.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that Congress took the same view of the matter as did
the officers of the Land Department, is afforded by the
committee reports on the Act of 1910 wherein the grantees
in the land grants-were spoken of as under an existing
duty "to pay one-half the cost of surveying the lands
within their granted limits" and the Secretary of the
Interior was encouraged to call upon Congress "for a
sufficient appropriation, from time to time, to cover the
Government's share of the cost of the work of surveying
as it progressed." See Senate Report No. 609, 61st Cong.,
2d sess., which includes the House Report. One of the
reports, in evident explanation of provisions in the act
intended to hasten such surveys, said:
"It is deemed wise and important that these lands
be surveyed as promptly as possible for various reasonsfirst, that they may become taxable by the States and
communities; second, that the Government may dispose
of its lands which join the railroad lands, and in order that
*where the railroad lands occur within forest reservesabout 3,000,000 acres of the unsurveyed lands being in
reserves-the government officials may be able to determine the boundaries of the public lands for the purpose of
regulating and controlling the same, selling the timber,
etc."
We conclude that the provision of 1876, as supplemented
by the Act of 1910, gives no warrant for demanding of the
trantee in a land grant a deposit covering the entire cost
of surveying a township wherein the grantee is entitled
to only a part of the lands, and that in making such a demand of the plaintiff the defendant plainly exceeded his
authority. Thus, the demand was an unauthorized act
done under color of office, and the defendant properly
may be enjoined from insisting upon or giving effect to it,
unless it be that there is an absence of other elements
essential to granting such relief.
We think the other elements are not wanting. There

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

are millions of acres of unsurveyed lands within the primary limits of the unforfeited portion of the grant of 1866.
(See Senate Report, supra.) The plaintiff is entitled to
many of the odd-numbered sections within the unsurveyed
areas. A claim such as is evidenced by the demand made
by the defendant, unless and until it is adjudged unauthorized, will cast a serious cloud upon the plaintiff's
rights in the granted lands remaining unsurveyed and be
a source of serious embarrassment. Besides, the Act of
1910 contemplates that when a demand thereunder is not
complied with the rights of the grantee in the granted
lands specified in the demand "shall cease and forfeit"
to the United States and the Secretary shall notify the
Attorney General in order that the latter may begin
"proceedings to declare the forfeiture" and to restore the
lands to the public domain. The plaintiff was not required in order to test the validity of the demand to permit the ninety days to pass and to rely entirely upon defending such suit as might be brought by the Attorney
General. On the contrary, if the demand was unlawful,
as we hold it was, the plaintiff was entitled to sue in equity
to have the defendant enjoined from insisting upon or
giving any effect to it. The hazard and embarrassment
incident to any other course were such as to entitle it to
act promptly and affirmatively, and of course there was
no remedy at law that would be as plain, adequate and
complete as a suit such ao this against the defendant.
The plaintiff promptly tendered a deposit of half the
amount demanded, but the tender was rejected. As the
granted lands could not at most be more than half the
acreage in the townships and the amount demanded was
what was required to survey the entire acreage, the tender
was adequate.
Decree reversed.

