SOUTHERN RAILWAY CO. v. PUCKETT.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v. PUCKETT.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
GEORGIA.
No. 219.

Argued April 25, 1917.-Decided June 11, 1917.

A case arising under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, as amended
April 5, 1910, c. 143, 36 Stat. 291, cannot be removed to the District
*Court upon the ground of diversity of citizenship.
Plaintiff's injury occurred while he was helping in the task of raising a
wrecked car to rescue a fellow employee and, coincidently, to clear
a track for interstate commerce. Held: Engaged in interstate commerce, within the Federal Employers' Liability Act.
The mere fact that the employee was engaged in interstate commerce
when called aside by the event which led to his injury does not
stamp his employment at the time of injury as an employment in
interstate commerce.
Finding no reason for disturbing the finding of both state courts as to
the defendant carrier's negligence,. and no exceptional circumstances
being involved, this court merely announces its conclusion.
16 Ga. App. 551, affirmed.

THE case is

stated in the opinion.

Mr. Sanders McDaniel, with whom Mr. L. E. Jeffries
and Mr. E. R. Black were on the briefs, for plaintiff in
error.
Mr. Edgar Watkins, with whom Mr. Spencer R. Atkinson
and Mr. E. W. Born were on the brief, for defendant in
error.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
Puckett recovered a verdict and judgment in the City
Court of Atlanta against the Southern Railway Company

572

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

for damages arising from personal injuries sustained by
him in August, 1911, while at work for the company in its
yard at Atlanta, Georgia. As submitted to the jury, the
action was founded upon the Federal Employers' Liability
Act of April 22, 1908, as amended by Act of April 5, 1910,
(35 Stat. 65, c. 149; 36 Stat. 291, c. 143). The judgment
was affirmed by the Georgia Court of Appeals (16 Ga.
App. 551), and a writ of error brings it under our review.
The record shows that a petition nd bond for the removal of the cause to the appropriate federal court upon
the ground of diversity of citizenship was filed in due time
by the defendant and overruled by the trial court. An
assignment of error based upon this ruling has been abandoned, and properly so, in view of our decision in Kansas
City Southern Ry. Co. v. Leslie, 238 U. S. 599, 602.
Whether, at the time he was injured, plaintiff was employed in interstate commerce, is the only substantial
question; there being no dispute that defendant at that
time was a common carrier by railroad engaged in commerce of that character.
As detailed in the opinion of the Court of Appeals, the
circumstances of the occurrence were as follows: Plaintiff
had been engaged in inspecting cars which had been put
into an interstate train-No. 75-that ran between
Atlanta, Georgia, and Birmingham, Alabama; he had
inspected about 25 cars, and there remained to be inspected about 12 cars which were to be placed in the same
train; while plaintiff was waiting for these, a collision
between other cars of defendant occurred in the yard
nearby, and several tracks were blocked by the wreckage;
one of defendant's employees named O'Berry was caught
in the collision and pinned beneath a car; in obedience to
the printed rules of the company, plaintiff went immediately to the scene of the wreck to render what assistance
he could, and was there instructed by a superior employee
to go and get a "jack" to assist in raising the wrecked car

SOUTHERN RAILWAY CO. v. PUCKETr.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

so as to extricate O'Berry and clear the tracks of the
wreckage; some of the remaining cars not yet placed in
train No. 75 were to have been hauled over the tracks that
were obstructed by the wreck, and on account of the
obstruction it became necessary to detour them, whereby
train No. 75 was delayed for about an hour; while plaintiff, assisting in clearing up the wreck, was carrying some
blocks on his shoulder to be used in jacking up the wrecked
car and replacing it upon the track, he stumbled over certain large clinkers which were on the roadway near the
track, and, in stumbling, struck his foot against some old
cross ties overgrown with gras§, and in consequence fell
and was seriously injured.
The court held that although plaintiff's primary object
may have been to rescue his fellow employee, his act
nevertheless was the first step in clearing the obstruction
from the tracks, to the end that -the remaining cars for
train No. 75 might be hauled over them; that his work
facilitated interstate transportation on the railroad, and
that consequently he was engaged in interstate commerce
when injured.
We concur in this view. From the facts found, it is
plain that the object of clearing the tracks entered inseparably into the purpose of jacking up the car, and gave
to the operation the character of interstate commerce. The
case is controlled by Pedersen v. Delaware, Lackawanna
& Western R. R. Co., 229 U. S. 146, 152; New York Central
& Hudson River R. R. Co. v. Carr, 238 U. S. 260, 263;
PennsylvaniaCo. v. Donat, 239 U. S. 50; Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Parker, 242 U. S. 13. Pedersen v. Delaware, Lackawanna & Western R. R. Co., supra,holds that
a workman employed in maintaining interstate tracks
in proper condition while they are in use is employed in
interstate commerce; the other cases are to the effect that
preparatory movements in aid of interstate transportation
axe a part of such commerce within the meaning of the act.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

244 U. S.

Of course, we attribute no significance to the fact that
plaintiff had been engaged in inspecting interstate cars
before he was called aside by the occurrence of the collision.
Illinois Central R. R. Co. v. Behrens, 233 U. S. 473, 478;
Erie R. R. Co. v. Welsh, 242 U. S. 303, 306.

It is contended that there was no sufficient ground for
attributing negligence to defendant because of the presence
of large clinkers in the path along which plaintiff, in the
course of his duty, was called upon to pass. This is no
more than a question of fact, without exceptional features,
and we content ourselves with announcing the conclusion
that we see no reason for disturbing the result reached by
two state courts.

Great Northern Ry. Co. v. Knapp, 240

U. S. 464, 466.
Judgment affirmed.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE

dissents.

PUGET SOUND TRACTION, LIGHT & POWER
COMPANY v. REYNOLDS ET AL., CONSTITUTING THE PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE STATE OF WASHINGTON, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.

No. 220. Submitted April 25, 1917.-Decided June 11, 1917.
City ordinances granting street railway franchises in the State of
Washington, with the right at any and all times to make reasonable
rules and regulations for the management and operation of the railway lines thereby authorized, contained a proviso that such rules
and regulations should not conflict with the laws of the State. Held:
(1) That the proviso, fairly construed, meant the laws as they should
from time to time exist. (2) That the act establishing the Public

