OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

244 U. S.

WEST v. EDWARD RUTLEDGE TIMBER
COMPANY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 276.

Argued May 7, 8, 1917.-Decided May 21, 1917.

The Act of March 2, 1899, c. 377, 30 Stat. 993, in providing for conveyance to the United States by the Northern Pacific Railroad
Company of lands within the Mount Ranier National Park in exchange for public lands to be selected elsewhere, is to be construed
as extending to that company's successor in title though no successor is named; and the Northern Pacific Railway Company, recognized as such successor by the Land Department both in the making
of the conveyance of base lands and in the enjoyment of the right
of lieu selection, is not to be denied that right upon the hypothesis
that the Northern Pacific Railroad Company had ceased to exist
before the date of the act.'
In surveying and reporting on public lands, a deputy surveyor described them as suitable for grazing, if cleared, but more valuable
for timber at the time. This having been accepted and acted upon
by.the Land Department as a description of the lands as nonmineral, Held, that they were to be regarded as "classified as nonmineral at the time of actual Government survey," for the purposes
of lieu selection' by the Northern Pacific Railway Company under
the Act of March 2, 1899, supra.
Whether a preliminary lieu selection of unsurveyed public land may
be said to designate the tract "with a reasonable degree of certainty,"
under the Act of March 2, 1899, supra, is a question in the nature of
a question of fact to be determined upon the circumstances of each
case. A description in terms of future survey may suffice if the land
may be located therefrom with the aid of an adjoining survey already
made.
Semble, that the rule limiting inquiry in this court to questions presented to the court below (Montana Railway Co. v. Warren, 137
U. S.348) is not confined to questions of procedure and is not inflexible.
221 Fed. Rep. 30, affirmed.

WEST v. RUTLEDGE TIMBER CO.
244 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

SUIT by appellant West (he was plaintiff in the court below and we shall so refer to him) against appellees, the
Edward Rutledge Timber Company and the Northern
Pacific Railway Company (to be referred to as the timber
company and railway company, respectively,) to have
plaintiff declared the owner of certain described lands, the
railway company and the timber company decreed to hold
title thereto in trust for him, to compel a conveyance to
him and to have his title to the lands quieted.
Plaintiff alleged himself qualified to locate and did
locate and settle upon the lands, they being then unsurveyed and vacant, unoccupied and unreserved lands belonging tq the United States as to which no claim of right
or title to or interest in them had been made by any person, nor was there any evidence whatsoever upon the
lands or any part thereof, or in the United States Land
Office for the district (Coeur d'Alene Land District), or
in the General Land Office in Washington showing any
claim, right, title or interest in any other person, nor were
there any marks, blazes, notices or any other evidence
of the location, selection, claim or possession marked or
traced upon the ground, or upon or near the same, nor
had the boundaries thereof been traced or located by
reference to any natural objects or monuments of any
kind or character.
That on July 17, 1905, the official plat of the survey of
the lands was filed in the local land office in Coeur d'Alene
City, Idaho, and on that day the lands became open to
entry under the homestead laws of the United States and
on that day plaintiff duly made application to enter them
under the homestead laws, which application was rejected
by the local land office, and, on May 10, 1910, the order
of rejection was approved by the Secretary of the Interior
and the case finally closed.
That on June 21, 1901, the railway company filed in the
General Land Office its selection list No. 61 which con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Statement of the Case.

244 U. S.

tained the following pretended description, to-wit, "the

Southeast Quarter of Section 20, Township 44 North,
Range 3 E., B. M."
That the description was wholly imaginary and that
no lands in the State of Idaho or elsewhere were or could
be so designated or described for the reason that at the
time of filing the list no such survey had been made or
attempted. That neither the railway company nor the
timber company knew or pretended to know what lands
were referred to or knew that in the event of a survey the
description would be applied to the lands occupied by
plaintiff. That the description was wholly insufficient to
locate the lands or any part or parcel thereof, rendering
the list and selection of the railway company wholly void
and of no effect whatsoever.
That on October 10, 1910, a patent to the lands was
issued to the railway company.
That (this on information and belief) the railway company conveyed the lands to the timber company and
that company now claims to have the legal title to the
same.
That neither the railway company nor the timber company nor any agent or employee of either has ever been
in possession of the lands, but plaintiff, ever since May 15,
1903, has been and now is in possession thereof; that
neither the railway company nor the timber company
has ever complied with the laws of the United States so as
to entitle either of them to claim any interest in or right
to the lands as against plaintiff.
That the decision of the local land office and the successive approval thereof by the Commissioner of the General
Land Office and the Secretary of the Interior were and
are wrongful, unlawful and based upon an erroneous
construction of the law and upon a statement of facts
concerning which there was and is no conflict.
That at the time the patent was issued to the railway

WEST v. RUTLEDGE TIMBER CO.
244 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

company plaintiff was and now is the owner of the lands
and the issue of the patent to the railway company ;as
contrary to and without authority of law and in violation
of plaintiff's rights; that the railway company was without any right or authority at law to select or claim the
lands or any part thereof and that the Act of Congress Of
March 2, 1899, upon and by virtue of which the railway
company based its right to select and claim the lands, is
unconstitutional and void and confers no right whatsoever
upon the railway company to select or claim the lands or
any part thereof against plaintiff.
The answer of the timber company admitted certain
allegations of the bill of complaint but denied that the
lands were vacant and open to settlement or that they were
unclaimed or unsegregated or not marked or traced by
boundaries, and alleged that the fact of their appropriation and segregation appeared on the records of the local
land office and of the General Land Office and that the
boundaries and lines of survey were duly and plainly
traced and marked out upon the lands and located by
monuments long prior to the time of plaintiff's settlement
thereon, and that plaintiff had full knowledge thereof and
did not enter upon the lands in good faith but only in the
hope that the claim of the timber company and railway
company might be defeated on technical grounds.
That on June 21, 1901, the railway company made selection of the lands under'the provisions of the Act of Congress entitled "An Act To set aside a portion of certain
lands in the State of Washington, now known as the
Pacific Forest Reserve, as a public park, to be known as
the Mount Ranier National Park," approved March 2,
1899, 30 Stat. 993, in lieu of an equal quantity of land
relinquished to the United States pursuant to the provisions of the act. That such selection was duly made in
accordance with the conditions of the act and the rules
and regulations of the Land Department and described

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

as required by the act, and the selection was in all respects
regular.
That on July 17, 1905, the official township plat was
filed in the -local land office and the railway company,
in accordance with the provisions of ยง4 of the act of
Congress, filed a new selection list which conformed to the
provisions of the act and the rules and regulations of
the Land Department.
That at the time plaintiff made his alleged settlement
upon the lands they had been surveyed and the lines of
survey traced, and all other conditions are alleged to have
been satisfied.
The timber company prayed that it be dismissed with
costs.
The answer of the railway company was substantially
the same as that of the timber company.
To the issues thus framed the evidence was addressed,
upon which a decree was entered for defendants dismissing
the bill, neither party to recover costs or disbursements
from the other. 210 Fed. Rep. 189. It was affirmed by
the Circuit Court of Appeals. 221 Fed. Rep. 30.
Mr. S. M. Stockslager, with whom Mr. A. H. Kenyon
and Mr. Seabury Merritt were on the briefs, for appellant.
Mr. Charles Donnelly and Mr. Stiles W. Burr, with
whom Mr. Charles W. Bunn and Mr. James B. Kerr were
on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE McKENA, after making the above statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

The controversy in the case turns on the construction
and application of the act of Congress. Because of it the
land offices, local and general, rejected plaintiff's application to enter the lands as a homestead. By virtue of it
the railway and its grantee, the timber company, assert

WEST v. RUTLEDGE TIMBER CO.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

title. Its primary purpose was to set aside certain public
lands as a national park to be known as the Mount Ranier
National Park. An obstacle to the purpose was a grant
of the desired lands to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company and their relinquishment had to be provided for.
This was done (ยง 3) by authorizing the company to select
an equal quantity of public lands elsewhere, or, more
specifically, within any State into or through which the
railroad ran. There was qualification of the character of
the lands to be selected. They were to be "nonmineral
public lands, so classified as nonmineral at the time of
actual Government survey, which has been or shall be
made,
not reserved and to which no adverse
right or claim shall have attached or have been initiated
at the time of the making of such selection."
It was provided (ยง 4) that upon the filing by the railroad company of the selection at the local land office and
payment of fees prescribed by law in analogous cases and
the approval by the Secretary of the Interior, he should
cause a patent to issue to the company conveying to it
the lands so selected; that "in case the tract so selected
shall at the time of selection be unsurveyed, the list filed
by the company . . . shall describe such tract in
such manner as to designate the same with a reasonable
degree of certainty"; and that within three months after
the tract shall have been surveyed and the plats thereof
filed a new selection shall be filed by the company describing the tract according to such survey. And, further,
that in case the tract as originally selected and described
in the list filed in the local land office shall not precisely
conform to the lines of the official survey, the company
shall be permitted to describe such tract anew, so as to
work such conformity.
Construing the act by its words there would seem to be
no difficulty in determining its meaning. It would seem
to be simple in purpose and clear in provision to accom-

OCTOBER TERM. 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

plish the purpose. But plaintiff raises various questions
upon it. He asserts: (1) That the grant was to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company and could not be availed
of by its successor through foreclosure, the Northern
Pacific Railway Company. (2) That the lands were
classified as mineral under the Act of Congress of February 26, 1895, 28 Stat., 683, and the classification approved
by the Secretary of the Interior March, 1901, and the surveyor having failed to make any classification of the lands
in terms as non-mineral they were not subject to selection.
(3) That if the first and second contentions be untenable,
the lands were not described " with a reasonable certainty"
so as to bar the rights of settlers in good faith without
actual or constructive notice.
(1) The argument advanced to support this proposition
is that by the foreclosure proceedings the Northern Pacific
Railroad Company ceased to exist and, if everything it
had or.had an interest in did not go out of existence with
it, at least its rights under the Act of 1899 did, and yet
counsel say plaintiff has nothing to do "with the question
whether the conveyance of the lands to the United States
under the provisions of the act conveyed a valid title."
It would be somewhat anomalous indeed if the act conveyed to the United States a valid title but did not convey
to the railroad anything substantial that could be transferred by sale under the decree of a court to the successor
of that company. We might ask the question, Where in
the world were the rights conveyed to the railroad company left-and if left at all, by whom were they to be
enforced or availed of?
We agree with the District Court that as a mere matter
of construction the contention of plaintiff must be rejected. In July, 1896 (Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Boyd,
228 U. S.482, 490; NorthernPacific Ry. Co. v. United States,
176 Fed. Rep. 706), three years prior to the act of Congress, the railway company had become successor to the

WEST v. RUTLEDGE TIMBER CO.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

railroad company, its vendor through the foreclosure
proceedings of the lands the Government desired, and yet
the latter company was designated in the act as the company Do Eselect the lands in compensation for those desired
and taken by the Government for the Mount Ranier
National Park. It may be, as said by the District Court,
a matter of speculation why the railroad company rather
than the railway company was named as grantee, but it is
certain it was done in recognition of rights and not in mere
jugglery to obtain lands for the National Park and convey
nothing to either company in return-nothing to the
railroad company because, according to the contention,
it had gone out of existence; nothing to the railway company because, according to the contention, it had not
succeeded to the rights of the railroad company. On the
contrary, we must assume that the act was passed and
the railroad company selected to consummate the exchange either by itself or by its successor, the railway
company, or by both. And this was done and the two
companies and the trustees of the railway company's
mortgage joined in a deed of reconveyance to the United
States. And this purpose of the act and what was done
under it was recognized by the Land Department. Davenport v. Northern Pacific Ry. Co., 32 L. D. 28; Ferguson
v. Northern PacificRy. Co., 33 L. D. 634; Idaho v. Northern
Pacific Ry. Co., 37 L. D. 135, 138. See also Delany v.
Same, 45 L. D. 6. It is pertinently said by counsel for the
railway company: "The government itself is satisfied
with its title; and certainly it cannot, while retaining that
title, deny to those from whom it was obtained the lands
offered in exchange."
(2) As we have seen, the right was to select "an equal
quantity of nonmineral public lands, so classified as nonmineral at the time of actual Government survey." The
lands are in fact non-mineral, but the contention is that
they were not so classified at the time of actual survey.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

The deputy surveyor who made the survey reported that
the lands, if cleared, would be suitable for grazing, but
at the time of the report were more valuable for their
timber. This, it is contended, is not a classification of the
lands as non-mineral, that it was not a classification but
an omission to classify-negative, not affirmative; inferential, not positive-and therefore not a compliance
with the statute. We cannot concur. The report was
accepted by the department as a description of the lands
as non-mineral. They could be made suitable for grazing,
was the report; pending that time they were more valuable
for their timber. There was positive description of their
character; words excluding some other character were not
necessary. Classification is characterization through the
selection of some quality or feature, and therefore lands
may be classified as pasture (grazing), timber, arable or
mineral. It is determined by surface indications. Minerals may be hidden under any surface, but a surveyor
is not expected to explore for them that he may include or
exclude reference to them in his reports. Such character is
exceptional, besides; and considered by the land office as
absent if not noted. I
The contention that the lands were classified as mineral
under the Act of February 26, 1895, is answered by the
admission made at the trial that the records do not show it.
(3) The act of Congress authorized the selection of an
unsurveyed tract, but required it to be described "in such
manner as to designate the same with a reasonable degree
of certainty," and it was provided that when surveyed a
new list was to be filed describing the tract "according
to such survey."
The lands, we have seen, were designated by sectional
'Davenport v. NorthernPacific Ry. Co., 32 L. D. 28; Bedal v. St. Paul,
M. & M. Ry. Co., 29 L. D. 254; Idaho v. Northern Pacific Ry. Co., 37
L. D. 135; St. Paul, M. & M. Ry. Co., 34 L. D. 211; Northern Pacific
Ry. Co., 40 L. D. 64.

WEST v. RUTLEDGE TIMBER CO.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

number, township and range, and it is contended that
such designation--" terms of future survey," as counsel'
term it-was not a description "with a reasonable degree
of certainty."
This seems to have been the only contention submitted
to 'the Court of Appeals and upon careful consideration
the court decided against the contention upon the Act
of 1899 and, in analogy, upon other acts of Congress in
relation to the public lands and also upon the rules and
decisions of the Land Department. It is not necessary to
repeat the reasoning of the court. What was a description
having "a reasonable degree of certainty" was to be
determined by the circumstances. It was in the nature of
a questibn of fact and had tests for decision, as tae Court
'of Appeals pointed out. It had the aid of an adjoining
survey and the lands could be readily located from such
survey. It was pointed out that the act of Congress did
not require exactness; it contemplated a subsequent readjustment. "The filing of the first list is in a sense preliminary to obtaining the patent. It initiates the right,
and not as much particularity and exactness is ordinsrily
required as to where final stages are to be observed in
clearing up and completing the transaction. In fact, by
contemplation of the statute, the new selection is required
to conform with the established survey and thus to correct
the description in the primary selection. By reasonable
intendment, therefore, we are impressed that the description contained in the Railway Company's list No. 61,
under the conditions prevailing of the survey of Township
45 to the north and the proximity of the land in question
thereto, designated the land with a reasonable degree of
certainty, and must be held sufficient as a matter of law."
For the premises from which this excerpt is the conclusion
we refer to the opinion.
The Court of Appeals said that the question of the
sufficiency of the description was "the single question

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

244 U. S.

urged" for its decision and counsel for defendants contend
that no other question is open to our review, and cite
Montana Railway Co. v. Warren, 137 U. S. 348, 351.
Plaintiff replies that the principle of that case applies
only to questions of procedure and not to questions of
jurisdiction or the foundation of the right, adducing
Rosen v. United States, 161 U. S. 29; Old Jordan Mining
& Milling Co. v. Soci&t6 Anonyme Des Mines, 164 U. S.
261; Gila Valley, Globe & Northern Ry. Co. v. Hall, 232
U. S. 94. See also Magruder v. Drury, 235 U. S. 106, 113.
The distinction between questions seems to be artificial.
The essential circumstafice would seem to be that a review
is sought of that which was not decided, not submitted
at all or withdrawn from submission and which, if it had
been submitted, might have been decided in favor of the
appealing party.
However, in deference to the earnestness of counsel,
we have considered the questions.
Affirmed.

E. I. DU PONT DE NEMOURS POWDER COMPANY
ET AL. v. MASLAND ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT'OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 210.

Argued May 4, 1917.-Decided May 21, 1917.

In a suit 'toenjoin defendant from using or disclosing secret processes
of plaintiff's business, defendant, while in effect conceding that he
learned them through his former confidential employment by plaintiff, denied that they were secret and insisted on his right to use them
as processes well known to the trade and to reveal them to expert
witnesses in making his defense. Held, that, during the taking of
proofs, defendant might properly be enjoined from disclosing the

