TOLEDO RAILWAYS &c. CO. v. HILL.
244 U. S.

Syllabus.

of value which go to make up the water system. We cannot say "that it was impossible for a fair-minded board
to come to the result which was reached." San Diego Land
& Town Co. v. Jasper, 189 U. S. 439, 442; Knoxville v.
Knoxville Water Co., 212 U. S. 1, 18. And the provision
in the order of the District Court by which it retained
jurisdiction of the case with permission to Mrs. Van Dyke
to renew her application for an injunction after one year,
if the rates fixed appeared to be confiscatory, afforded her
appropriate protection.
The decree of the District Court is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS dissents.

TOLEDO RAILWAYS & LIGHT COMPANY v. HILL
ET AL., EXECUTORS OF KIRK.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 200. Argued April 23, 1917.-Decided May 21, 1917.
An objection to the jurisdiction of the District Court based on the defendant's being a corporation not doing business in the State and
upon want of representative capacity In the person served, is not
waived by answering to the merits after a motion to quash the service
is overruled, where the answer reasserts the jurisdictional point
also, where the defendant participates in the trial only by reiterating
the objection and where the judge presiding treats the ruling on the
motion as conclusive because made by an associate.
Provision made by a corporation for payment of its bonds and coupons
at an office in a particular State and payment of coupons accordingly
does not constitute such a doing of business in that State as renders
the corporation liablp to be sued there. So held where the action was
upon some of the bonds.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

There is no merit in the proposition that as a basis for determining
jurisdiction the property of a corporation must be regarded as
translated from its home State to another State when mortgaged to
a trust company of the latter to secure bonds made payable there.
Reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Robert Burns, with whom Mr. Charles A. Frueauff
was on the brief, for plaintiff in erorr.
Mr. Howard S. Cans, with whom Mr. Paul M. Herzog
and Mr. Arthur S. Levy were on the briefs, for defendants
in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
Averring themselves to be citizens of the United States,
the one residing in the City of New York and the other in
Boston, Massachusetts, the defendants in error in April,
1914, sued in the Supreme Court of the State of New York
to recover from the plaintiff in error the principal and interest of certain bonds issued by the plaintiff in error,
alleged to be a corporation created by the laws of Ohioj
The summons was served upon a director and vicepresident of the corporation residing in the City of NewYoik. The corporation, appearing specially for that purpose, on the ground of diversity of citizenship removed
the cause to the District Court of the United States for
the Southern District of New York and, on the filing of
the record in that court, again solely appearing for such
purpose, moved to vacate the service of summons on the
ground that the corporation was created by the laws of
the State of Ohio, and was solely engaged in carrying on its
business at Toledo in that State, that is, in the operation
of street railways and the furnishing of electrical energy
for light and other purposes. The motion to vacate expressly alleged that the corporation was prosecuting no

TOLEDO RAILWAYS &c. CO. v. HILL.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

business in the State of New York and that the person
upon whom the summons was served, although concededly an officer of the corporation, had no authority
whatever to transact business for or represent the corporation in the State of New York. On the papers,
affidavits and documents submitted the motion to vacate
was refused and an answer was subsequently filed by the
corporation setting up various defences to the merits and
besides reaserting the challenge to the jurisdiction. At
the trial, presided over by a different judge from the one
who had heard and adversely disposed of the challenge
to the jurisdiction, the court, treating the ruling on that
subject as conclusive, declined therefore to entertain the
request of the corporation to consider the matter as urged
in the answer. After this ruling the corporation refused
to take part in the trial on the merits except to the extent
that by way of objections to evidence, requests for rulings
and instructions to the jury it re-stated and re-urged its
previous contention as to jurisdiction. There was a
verdict and judgment for the plaintiff and this direct writ
of error to review alone the ruling as to jurisdiction was
prosecuted, the record containing the certificate of the
trial judge as required by the statute.
Upon the theory that as there was diversity of citizenship the challenge to the jurisdiction involved merely
authority over the person, it is insisted that even if the
objection be conceded to have been well taken, it was
subject to be waived and was waived below and therefore
is not open. This must be first disposed of. The contention rests upon the proposition that because after the
motion to vacate had been overruled an answer to the
merits was filed, therefore the right to assail the jurisdiction was waived. But this disregards the fact that the
answer did not waive, but in terms reiterated, the plea
to the jurisdiction. It further disregards the fact that
the court treated the subject as not open for consideration

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

because of the previous ruling on the motion to vacate.
Moreover, as it has been settled that the right to review
by direct writ of error a question of jurisdiction may not
be availed of until after final judgment (McLish v. Roff,
141 U. S. 661), it follows that the contention must be
either that there is no right to review at all or that it can
only be enjoyfed by waiving all defence as to the merits
and submitting to an adverse judgment. The contention,
however, has been conclusively adversely disposed of.
St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co. v. Alexander, 227 U. S. 218.
Leaving uside the capacity of the person upon whom the
summons twas served, which we shall hereafter consider,
the facts upon which the question of jurisdiction depends
are briefly these: The corporation was created by the
laws of the State of Ohio, haa its principal establishment
and business at Toledo and carried on no business in the
State of New York unless the contrary conclusion results
from the following statement: In 1901 the corporation
issued its bonds and secured the same by mortgage. The
trustee under the mortgage was The United States Mortgage and Trust, Company of the City of New York and
the bonds were delivered to that company to be certified
in accordance with the provisions of the deed. The bonds
were subject to registry and became due and were payable on July 1, 1909, "at the fiscal office of said Company
in the City of New York" and the semi-annual interest
coupons were also payable "at the fiscal office of said
Company in the City of New York." Prior to 1909, when
the company defaulted in the payment of the principal
and interest on its bonds, the interest coupons were paid.
at the office of a commercial firm in New York representing
the company for such purpose, but that representation
wholly ceased after the default and from that date until
this suit was brought, about five years later, the company
had no office for any purpose in the State of New York
and transacted no business therein.

TOLEDO RAILWAYS &c. CO. v. HILL.
.244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The reason which Pontrolled the court below and the
sole contention here relied upon therefore was and is that

,the provision for the payment of the bonds and coupons
at an office in the City of New York constituted a doing
of business in Nem York so as to afford jurisdiction there
and that such result continued to operate years after the
office for Such purpose had ceased to exist upon the ground
that, for the purpose of jurisdiction over the corporation,
it must be conclusively presumed to have continued to
maintain an office in the City of New York for the purpose
stated. But we think from either point of view the contention is without merit: The first because the mere provision for a place of payment in the City of New York of
the bonds and the coupons annexed to them at their
maturity and their payment at such place was in no true
sense the carrying on by the corporation in New York of
the business which it' was chartered to carry on) however
much it may have been an agreement by the corporation
to pay in New York an obligation resulting from the
carrying on by it of its business in th'e State of Ohio.
And this view necessarily disposes of the proposition in
the second aspect, since the indulging in the fiction of the
existence of an office for the payment of coupons could
not produce an effect greater than that which could be
produced by the real existence of the office.
So far as concerns the capacity of the person upon whom
the summons was served irrespective of the doing of business by the corporation in the State, we do not expressly
notice the various contentions by which under such a
view jurisdiction is sought to be supported, but content
ourselves with saying that we think they are all plainly
without merit.
Although what we have said in substance meets and
disposes of all the contentions relied upon to sustain the
jurisdiction, we have. not expressly noticed them all because of their obvious want of merit,-a situation which

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

244 U. S.

is illustrated by the mere statement of a contention made
that as the trustee under the mortgage was a New York
corporation in whom the title to the mortgaged property
for the purposes of the trust was vested, therefore all the
property of the corporation must be metaphysically considered to have been translated from the State of Ohio
to the State of New York and used as a basis of jurisdiction in such latter State.
Reversed and remanded with directions to dismiss the
complaintfor want of jurisdiction.

MEISUKAS v. GREENOUGH RED ASH COAL
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 229. Argued May 2, 1917.-Decided May 21, 1917.
The right to challenge the jurisdiction of the District Court over the
person of the defendant is not waived by a special appearance for that
purpose, by a .postponement of. the hearing at the instance of the
plaintiff for the purpose of enabling him to be fully heard on the subject of jurisdiction reserving the right of defendant to plead to the
merits if jurisdiction be sustained, or by an order of the court, sun
sponte, directing plaintiff to amend his complaint so as to disclose
citizenship more fully before the hearing on the jurisdictional question.
A motion to quash is a proper mode of attacking service and jurisdiction thereon depending in the District Court; the Conformity Act
does not require resort to a demurrer for this purpose even though.
the state procedure does. So held where the motion was based on
the grounds that defendant corporation was not doing business or
possessed of property in the State and on want of representative
capacity in the person served.
Affirmed.

