UNITED COPPER CO. v. AMAL. COPPER CO.
244 U. S.

261

Counsel for Plaintiffs in Error.

law "in so far as it applies to police officers"; and our
decision is likewise so limited.
The judgments are
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE' MCKENNA and MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

dissent.

UNITED COPPER SECURITIES COMPANY ET AL.
v. AMALGAMATED COPPER COMPANY ET AL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 208. Argued April 24, 1917.-Decided May 21, 1917.
The established principles limiting the right of a stockholder to sue on
behalf of the corporation when it refuses to do so, restated and held
applicable to an action for damages based on alleged injury to the
corporation through violations of the Sherman Act.
The rule which confines the individual stockholder to the equitable
forum when seeking to enforce a right of the corporation applies
when the cause of action arises under the Sherman Act, as in other
cases. Fleitmann v. Welsbach Co., 240 U. S. 27, distinguished.
Whether or not in an action by stockholders to enforce an alleged right
of their corporation this court has power to substitute as plaintiffs
persons appointed receivers of the corporation while the writ of error
is pending, Held that in the circumstances- stated in the opinion such
a motion was without merit in this case.
223 Fed. Rep. 421, affirmed.

THE case ig stated in the opinion.
Mr. Ferdinand E. M. Bullowa, with whom Mr. Ralph
James M. Bullowa, Mr. Emilie M. Bullowa and Mr. Robert
H. McCarter were on the briefs, for plaintiffs in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

Mr. John A. Garver for defendants in error Amalgamated Copper Company et al.
Mr. Louis Marshall for defendant in error Adolph
Lewisohn.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is an action at law. The complaint alleges that
plaintiffs are the holders of more than 200 of the 500,000
shares of the outstanding stock of the defendant United
Copper Company, a New Jersey corporation; that the
defendants other than that company have by conduct
violating the Sherman Law (Act of July 2, 1890, c. 647, 26
Stat. 209) injured it to the extent of more than $5,000,000,1
and that:
"IV. In or about the month of January, 1912, and before the commencement of this action the plaintiffs,
United Copper Securities Company and Arthur P. Heinze,
each made a demand upon the defendant, United Copper
Company, that this or a like action be instituted by said
corporation defendant, and said corporation defendant,
and its Board of Directors, have refused to comply with
said demand, and have failed and refused to commence
or cause to be commenced any action whatever in compliance therewith.
"V. This action is commenced and prosecuted by the
'The bill is framed on the theory that the injury to the United
Copper Company was suffered directly, as a competitor of the other
defendants, and the case will be discussed on that supposition. It is
proper to observe, however, that the allegations of the bill are ambiguous in this respect, and that the United Copper Company appears to
have been a mere holding company, which suffered injury only indirectly as controlling stockholder in various mining companies alleged
to have been damaged by the conspiracy and which were not made
parties to this suit.

UNITED COPPER CO. v. AMAL. COPPER CO. 263
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

plaintiff United Copper Securities Company, and by the
plaintiff, Arthur P. Heinze, each individually and for
himself and also on his own behalf and on behalf of all the
other stockholders of said United Copper Company."
The complaint concludes:
"Wherefore, the plaintiffs demand judgment in their
favor and in favor of any stockholders of the United
Copper Company who may join with them in the prosecution of this action in the sum of three-fold damages
under Section 7 of the Act of Congress aforesaid, and that
each of the defendants shall be compelled to pay the damages sustained by the United Copper Company, as hereinbefore alleged."
The District Court sustained a demurrer and dismissed
the complaint. Its judgment was affirmed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals, 223 Fed. Rep. 421; and the case comes
here on writ of error. A motion for substitution of plaintiffs, hereafter referred to, was made in this court and
argued with the merits.
There is no statement in the complaint that the alleged
wrongful acts have caused injury to the plaintiffs qs individual shareholders; and no recovery is sought for damages to them or to their property. The case involves,
therefore, this single question: Whether a stockholder in a
corporation which is alleged to have a cause of action in
damages against others for conduct in violation of the
Sherman Act, may sue at law to recover such damages in
the right of the .corporation, if, after request, it refuses to
institute the suit itself? Insuperable obstacles to the
maintenance of the action are presented both by the substantive law and by the law of procedure.
Whether or not a corporation shall seek to enforce in the
courts a cause of action for damages is, like other business
questions, ordinarily a matter of internal management
and is left to the discretion of the directors, in the absence
of instruction by vote of the stockholders. Courts inter-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

fere seldom to control such discretion intra vires the corporation, except where the directors are guilty of misconduct equivalent to a breach of trust, or where they stand
in a dual relation which prevents an unprejudiced exercise
of judgment; and, as a rule, only after application to the
stockholders, unless it appears that there was no opportunity for such application, that such application would be
futile (as where the wrongdoers control the corporation),
or that the delay involved would defeat recovery. 1 In the
instant case there is no allegation that the United Copper
Company is in the control of the alleged wrongdoers or
that its directors stand in any relations to them or that
they have been guilty of any misconduct whatsoever.
Nor is there even an allegation that their action in refusing
to bring such suit is unwise. No application appears to
have been made to the stockholders as a body or indeed to
any other stockholders individually; nor does it appear
that there was no opportunity to make it, and no special
facts are shown which render such application unnecessary.
For augh~t that appears, the course pursued by the directors has the approval of all the stockholders except the
plaintiffs. The fact that the cAuse of action is based on
the Sherman Law does not limit the discretion of the
directors or the power of the body of stockholders; nor
does it give to individual shareholders the right to interfere with the internal management of the corporation.
But even if the circumstances were such as to justify
individual stockholders in seeking the aid of the court to
enforce rights of the corporation, it is clear that their
remedy is not at law.2 The particular equitable relief
1 Hawes v. Oakland, 104 U. S. 450; Quincy v. Steel, 120 U. S. 241;

Corbus v. Alaska Treadwell Gold Mining Co., 187 U. S. 455; Delaware
& Hudson Co. v. Albany'& Susquehanna R. R. Co., 213 U. S. 435. See
Macon, D. & S. R. Co. v. Shailer, 141 Fed. Rep. 585.
2 Hawes v, Oakland, 104 U. S. 450, 454; Quincy v. Steel, 120 U. S. 241.
The latter case was an equity uit by a stockholder to enforce a purely
I

UNITED COPPER CO. v. AMAL. COPPER CO.
244 U. S.

265

Opinion of the Court.

sought in Fleitmann v. Welsbach Co., 240 U. S. 27, was
denied; but this denial affords no reason for assuming that
the long settled rule under which stockholders may seek
such relief only in a court of equity will be departed from
because the cause of action involved arises under the
Sherman Law.
This action was commenced May 3, 1912. The judgment dismissing the complaint was rendered in the District Court September 24, 1914, and affirmed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals April 13, 1915. The case was
entered in this court July 27, 1915. On April 7, 1917, about
a fortnight before the case was reached for argument,
George D. Hendrickson and Luther Martin, Jr., filed in
this court a motion that they be substituted as plaintiffs in
error. The motion recites that they had, on March 1,
1917, been appointed receivers of the United Copper Company by the Court of Chancery of New Jersey, and had
on April 2, 1917, been authorized by it to apply for such
substitution. Annexed to the motion is a copy of the
petition for appointment of the receivers which alleges
that the United Copper Company had on February 28,
1912, been dissolved by proclamation of the Governor of
New Jersey for failure to pay franchise taxes; and that it
had assets of large value; but that its directors named
(who under the statute thereupon became trustees for the
corporation) had taken no steps whatever to collect its
assets or settle its affairs and were not fit and proper persons to be entrusted with them. Only by opposing affidavits filed by defendants was it disclosed that, on
February 10, 1913, more than four years previously, the
District Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York had appointed others receivers of the
legal

claim of the corporation-damages for breach of contract; and

the court sustained a demurrer to the bill, not because the suit should
have been at law, but because the bill failed to show that complainant
had made sufficient effort to induce the directors to enter suit.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

244 U. S.

United Copper' Company, and had vested in those receivers
the possession of "all the properties owned by the defendant [the United Copper Company], or in which the
said defendant has any ownership or interest, whether
such property be real, personal or mixed, of whatsoever
kind and description, and wheresoever situated, includthings in action, credits, stocks, bonds,
ing . .
securities, shares of stock in the corporations described in
said bill of complaint, and all shares of stock, certificates
of equitable interest and other certificates representing
any interest in any property and all other securities of
whatsoever character owned by the defendant company,
on or in which it has any interest, or which it controls
directly or indirectly," and that on February 14, 1913, the
same persons had been appointed ancillary receivers by
the United States District Court for the District of New
Jersey. We have no occasion to consider the power of this
court to grant the motion for substitution. See Railway
Co. v. Twombly, 100 U. S. 78, 81. It is without merit
and is denied.
Judgment affirmed.

HAMER ET AL. v. NEW YORK RAILWAYS COMPANY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 968.

Argued April 10, 1917.-Decided May 21, 1917.

With the delivery of a mortgage to secure bonds of one corporation
there was delivered to the trustee stamped on each bond a guaranty
by another corporation whereby the latter guaranteed "to the
Trustee of the within-mentioned mortgage, for the benefit of the
holders thereof, punctual payment of the principal of the within

bond and the interest thereon

.

.

. according to the tenor of

