OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

244 U. S.

is illustrated by the mere statement of a contention made
that as the trustee under the mortgage was a New York
corporation in whom the title to the mortgaged property
for the purposes of the trust was vested, therefore all the
property of the corporation must be metaphysically considered to have been translated from the State of Ohio
to the State of New York and used as a basis of jurisdiction in such latter State.
Reversed and remanded with directions to dismiss the
complaintfor want of jurisdiction.

MEISUKAS v. GREENOUGH RED ASH COAL
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 229. Argued May 2, 1917.-Decided May 21, 1917.
The right to challenge the jurisdiction of the District Court over the
person of the defendant is not waived by a special appearance for that
purpose, by a .postponement of. the hearing at the instance of the
plaintiff for the purpose of enabling him to be fully heard on the subject of jurisdiction reserving the right of defendant to plead to the
merits if jurisdiction be sustained, or by an order of the court, sun
sponte, directing plaintiff to amend his complaint so as to disclose
citizenship more fully before the hearing on the jurisdictional question.
A motion to quash is a proper mode of attacking service and jurisdiction thereon depending in the District Court; the Conformity Act
does not require resort to a demurrer for this purpose even though.
the state procedure does. So held where the motion was based on
the grounds that defendant corporation was not doing business or
possessed of property in the State and on want of representative
capacity in the person served.
Affirmed.

MEISUKAS v. GREENOUGH COAL CO.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Jesse C. Adkins, with whom Mr. Alvin C. Cass,
Mr. Baltrus S. Yankaus and Mr. Frank J. Felbel were on
the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Charles W. Pierson, with whom Mr. Clifton P.
Williamson was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
Alleging himself to be a citizen of New York and a resident in the eastern district, the plaintiff in error sued
below to recover from the defendant in error the amount
of damages alleged to have been by him suffered as the
result of an explosion of dynamite while he, the plaintiff,
was engaged as a servant of the defendant in working
in a coal mine belonging to and operated by it near
Shamokin, Pennsylvania. The defendant was alleged to
be a corporation created under the laws of the State of
Pennsylvania and a resident of that State having its
principal place of business at Shamokin. It was alleged,
however, as a basis for jurisdiction that the corporation
carried on business in the State of New York and had
property therein. The summons was personally served
upon the president of the corporation who was found in
the Borough of Manhattan in the southern district.
Upon the complaint and summons and an affidavit of
its president, the' corporation, appearing specially "for
-the sole and single purpose of objecting to the jurisdiction
of this court over the defendant in this action," moved
"to set aside and declare null, void, and of no effect the
attempted service of the summons" upon the ground that
the corporation had no property in the State of New York
and transacted no business therein and although its pres-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.

Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

ident was personally served while temporarily in the
southern district of New York he was there engaged in
the transaction of no business for or on account of the
corporation and had no authority so to do. A hearing was
ordered on the motion. At the hour fixed for the hearing
at the request of the plaintiff it was continued, the court,
however, in expres§ terms subjecting the continuance to
the condition that the defendant should not lose his right
to plead to the merits if on the hearing on the question of
jurisdiction on the postponed day authority to entertain
the cause was sustained, In addition the plaintiff was
ordered within six days to file an amended complaint
"showing whether the plaintiff is an alien or a citizen
of the United States, and if a citizen whether native born
or naturalized, and the date and place of such naturalization, if any." The amended complaint was filed showing
the plaintiff to be an alien and subsequently on the hearing
on the motion to quash the summons an affidavit for the
purpose of supporting the jurisdiction was filed on behalf
of the plaintiff: It is true, however, to say that this
affidavit did not rebut the facts as to the non-doing of
business and the absence of property of the corporation in
the State of New York and the want of authority on the
part of its president upon whom the summons had been
served to represent the corporktion or transact any business in New York in its behalf. The summoas was
quashed and the suit dismissed and the direct appeal
which is before us on the question of jurisdiction was then
taken.
Despite some apparent contention to the contrary there
is no room for any controversy concerning the facts upon
which the court below based its action, that is, the nondoing of business by the corporation in New York and
the absence of authority in its president to represent it
there. Indeed the argument freely admits this and proceeds upon the theory that although the facts clearly

MEISUKAS v. GREENOUGH COAL CO.
244 U.'S.

57

Opinion of the Court.

establish the correctness of the ruling below if they are
considered, yet they are not subject to be so considered
because the challenge to the jurisdiction was waived by
the proceedings which were taken to question it. Generically this would seem to rest upon the proposition that
because there was a special appearance on the face of the
summons and complaint challenging the jurisdiction,
thereby the right to so challenge was waived. But the
contrary has been so long established and is so elementary
that the proposition need be no further noticed.
Although this be true, the argument further is that the
right to be heard on the challenge to the jurisdiction was
lost because of the postponement of the hearing on that
subject which was granted. This, however, in a different
form but embodies the error involved in the proposition
just disposed of. But aside from this, as the continuance
was granted at the request of the plaintiff and for the purpose of enabling him to be fully heard on the subject of
jurisdiction, no further reference to the proposition is
required. Again, it is urged that because as a condition
of the continuance the court reserved the right of the
defendant to plead to the merits if on the hearing jurisdiction was found to exist, therefore the question of jurisdiction was waived,-a conclusion which is again too obviously wrong to require more than statement to refute it.
Moreover, it is insisted that as the order directing the
plaintiff to amend so as to fully disclose citizenship before
the day for the hearing on the motion as to jurisdiction
was an exercise of jurisdiction resulting from some suggestion of the defendant, therefore the question of jurisdiction was not open. But this disregards the fact that the
order in question was expressly made by the court doubtless in the discharge of its duty to see to it that from no
point of view was its jurisdiction abused.
Finally, it is said that as under the local law the right
to challenge the summons and the jurisdiction resting

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.

58

Syllabus.

244 U. S.

on it could only have been raised by demurrer, therefore
under the Conformity Act (§914, Rev. Stats.) the motion
to quash the summons could not be entertained and on the
contrary should have been disregarded. We do not stop
to discuss the proposition since it is too clear for discussion
that its want of merit is foreclosed by previous decisions
of this court which have recognized and upheld the practice of challenging the jurisdiction under circumstances
like those here present by way of motion to quash instead
of by demurrer. Goldey v. Morning News, 156 U. S. 518;
Wabash Western Railway v. Brow, 164 U. S. 271; St. Louis
Southwestern Ry. Co. v. Alexander, 227 U. S. 218.
Affirmed

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES HORSE SHOE COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 248.

Argued April 30, 1917.-Decided May 21, 1917.

Concurrent findings of state trial and appellate courts as to the fact.
of negligence will not be overturned by this court in the absence of
clear error. Baltimore & 6hio R. R. Co. v. Whitacre, 242 U. *S. 169.
A carrier's printed form of contract for interstate transportation of
livestock, plainly intending to adjust the rates in each case proportionately to valuations to be made by the shipper which should limit
the carrier's liability, specified minimum or primary valuations for
various kinds of animals with corresponding tariff rates and left
blanks for insertion of the shipper's valuations connected with the
statement that the same were declared by the shipper in order to
avail himself of the alternative rates. In a case where the blanks for
valuations by the shipper were left unfilled at execution but the rate
charged and inserted in the contract was in accordance with the
carrier's tariff as applied to the primary valuations, Held that these

