OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

244 U. S.

be treated, not as independent contracting parties, but
as one system; and the connecting lines become in effect
mere agents, whose duty it is to forward the goods under
the terms of the contract made by their principal, the
initial carrier. Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co. v. Riverside
Mills, 219 U. S. 186, 206; Galveston, Harrisburg & San
Antonio Ry. Co. v. Wallace, 223 U. S. 481, 491.
The Railway Companies also contend that the acceptance of the second bill of lading operated as a waiver of all
rights thereafter accruing' under the first. The record
discloses no evidence of intention to make such a waiver
and there was no consideration for it. Furthermore as
stated in Georgia, Florida & Alabama Ry. Co. v. Blish
Milling Co., 241 U. S. 190, 197, "the parties could not
waive the terms of the contract under which the shipment
was made pursuant to the Federal Act.

.

.

.

A dif-

ferent view would antagonize the plain policy of the Act
and open the door to the very abuses at which the Act was
aimed."
Judgment affirmed.

MISSISSIPPI RAILROAD COMMISSION ET AL. v.
MOBILE & OHIO RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.
No. 256.

Submitted May 1, 1917.-Decided June 4, 1917.

While the power of the States over the railways within their borders
is very great and comprehensive, the property of the railways is
nevertheless protected by the fundamental guaranties of the Constitution, is entitled to as full protection as any other private property devoted to a public use, and can not be taken from its owners
without'just compensation or without due process of law.

MISS. R. R. COMM. v. MOBILE & OHIO R. R. CO.
244 U.S.

389

Opinion of the Court.

An attempt upon the part of a state commission to exercise the power
of regulation in such an arbitrary and unreasonable manner as to
prevent a railroad company from obtaining a fair return upon its
property invested in the public service is repugnant to due process
of law and. void under the Fourteenth Amendment.
Upon the facts of this case, Held that an order of the Mississippi Railroad Commission; requiring the appellee company to restore certain
passenger trains to service on its line within that State, was arbitrary,
unreasonable, in excess of the lawful powers of the commission, and
void under the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The reasonableness of requiring a carrier to operate specified trains
can not be made to depend upon the relation of the money return to
the "out-of-pocket" cost, i. e., immediate outlay for wages and fuel,
involved in their operation. Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. North
Dakota, 236 U. S. 585.
The action of the Railroad Commission in this case, though expressed
in a separate order as to each train directed to be restored, was based
upon one citation and was intended by the commission, and treated
by the court below, as in effect but one order for the restoration of
all the trains; this-court therefore treats it as a unity, without determining whether some improvement of the train service might not
properly have been required.
Affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. James N. Flowers and Mr. George H. Ethridge,
Assistant Attorney General of the State of Mississippi,
for appellants.
Mr. S. R. Prince and Mr. Carl Fox for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a direct appeal from an order of the District
Court for the Southern District of Mississippi, three
judges sitting, granting an interlocutory injunction restraining the Mississippi Railroad Commission and the
Attorney General of that State from enforcing six separate orders entered by the commission on one citation in
one case on October 7, 1914, requiring the appellee to

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

restore to service six passenger trains-two each way daily
between Meridian and Waynesboro, a town fifty-two
miles to the south, and one train each way daily between
Meridian and Okolona, a town one hundred and twentyseven miles to the north-all in the State of Mississippi.
The trains between Meridian and Okolona which were
discontinued were interstate trains, the others were local
to the State.
The appellee averred several grounds for the injunction
prayed for, but the conclusion which we have reached calls
upon us to consider only one of them, viz:
That the depression of business incident to the European
War had so reduced the income of the railroad company
that at the time the order was entered it was less than its
current expenses; that a large loss would be incurred in
operating each of the six trains; that without these trains
there remained reasonably adequate service having regard
to the .population of the territory involved, and that the
general financial condition of the company was such that
the order if enforced would deprive the company of its
property without dde process of law and of the equal protection of the laws, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
The principles of law applicable to the decision of such
a case as this record presents are few and they have become so settled and so familiar by repeated decisions of
this court that extended discussion of them would be
superfluous. They are these:
A State may regulate the conduct of railways within
its borders, either directly or through a body charged
with the duty and invested with powers requisite to
accomplish such regulation. Mississippi Railroad Commission v. Illinois Central R. R. Co., 203 U. S. 335; Prentis
v. Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co.,. 211 U. S. 210; Louisville
& Nashville R. R. Co. v. Garrett, 231 U. S. 298.
Under this power of regulation a State may require

MISS. R. R. COMM. v. MOBILE & OHIO R. R. CO. 391
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

carriers to provide reasonable and adequate facilities to
serve not only the local necessities but the local convenience of the communities to which they are directly
tributary. Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Ry. Co. v.
Ohio, 173 U. S. 285; Cleveland, Cincinnati, Chicago & St.
Louis Ry. Co. v. Illinois, 177 U. S. 514; Atlantic Coast Line
R. R. Co. v. North Carolina Corporation Commission, 206
U. S. 1; Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S.
262; Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co. v. Railroad
Commission of Wisconsin, 237 U. S. 220; and such regulation may extend in a proper case to requiring the running
of trains in addition to those provided by the carrier,
even where this may involve some pecuniary loss, Atlantic
Coast Line R. R. Co. v. North Carolina Corporation Commission, supra, and Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v. Kansas,
supra.
But, while the scope of this power of regulation over
carriers is very great and comprehensive, the property
which is invested in the railways of the country is nevertheless under the protection of the fundamental guaranties
of the Constitution and is entitled to as full protection of
the law as any other private property devoted to a public
use, and it cannot be taken from its owners without just
compensation or without due process of law. Wisconsin,
Minnesota & Pacific R. R. v. Jacobson, 179 U. S. 287; Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co. v. North Carolina Corporation
Commission, 206 U. S. 1; Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. North
Dakota, 236 U. S. 585; Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul
R. R. Co. v. Wisconsin, 238 U. S. 491.
If this power'of regulation is exercised in such an arbitrary
or unreasonable manner as to prevent the company from
obtaining a fair return upon the property invested in the
public service it passes beyond lawful bounds, and such
action is void, because repugnant to the due process of law
provision of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States. Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

v. North Carolina Corporation Commission, 206 U. S. 1;
Missouri PacificRy. Co. v. Nebraska,217 U. S. 196-; Missouri
Pacific Ry. Co. v. Tucker, 230 U. S. 340; Northern Pacific
Ry. Co. v. North Dakota, 236 U. S. 585.
Whether a statute enacted by the legislature of a State
or an order passed by a railroad commission exceeds the
bounds which the law thus sets to' such authority is a
question of law arising on the facts of each case (Mississippi Railroad Commission v. Illinois Central R. R. Co.,
suyra), and the appropriate remedy for determining that
question is a bill in equity such as was filed in this case
to enjoin its enforcement. Mississippi Railroad Commission v. Illinois Central R. R. Co., supra; Chicago, Milwaukee
& St. Paul R. R. Co. v. Wisconsin, supra.
With these principles in mind we pass to a consideration
of the question of law which the facts of this particular
case present for our decision.
The case was heard on bill, answer and testimony which
are all before us, and the facts appearing may be summarized as follows:
The Mobile & Ohio Railroad Company is an interstate
carrier operating a line of railway from Mobile, Alabama,
to St. Louis, Missouri. This evidence is uncontradicted:
That the company is not overcapitalized, that it has been
wisely and economically managed and that, nevertheless,
its net earnings above the cost of operation, fixed charges
and taxes, -an4 before Making any allowance for betterments or for dividends, were only $85,000 for the year ending June 30, 1914. It never paid a greater dividend than
five per cent. and this for only a few years in its history;
in the month of July, 1914, on its entire system the company earned a surplus over fixed charges and taxes of
$11,000; in the month of August it showed a deficit of
$25,641, and in September the deficit became $113627,this without making any deduction for betterments, or
improvements or dividends.

MISS. R. R. COMM. v. MOBILE & OHIO R. R. CO.
244 U. S.

393

Opinion of the Court.

The trains ordered restored were numbered 7, 8, 9, 10, 11
and 12, and they were all put into operation by the defendant railroad company as experiments from time to
time within a few years prior to 1914 without any order
of the commission, in the hope of building up passenger
business, but the record -shows that not one of them at
any time paid the cost of operation.
The territory under consideration is sparsely settled and
the chief traffic of the company is lumber and cotton and
the resulting general freight due to a marketing of these
commodities. The depression in these staples was very
great prior to and at the time the case was heard.
The uncontradicted testimony of the auditor of the
company shows that the passenger revenue per train
mile, of the trains ordered restored, for the three months
next before the passing of the order was: For July, 65 cents,
for August, 64 cents and for September, 56 cents; that the
average passenger revenue per train mile of trains 7, 8, 9
and 10 from October 1st to October 5th (the next day but
one before the order was passed), was 36 cents, and that
of trains 11 and 12 for the same six days was 25 cents.
The auditor also testifies that as near an approximation
as could be arrived at showed the total revenue of the
company derived from passenger traffic for the two months
ending August 31, 1914, was $331,102.85, and that the
total expenses and taxes allotted to this service amounted
to $339,247.60, making the passenger revenue per train
mile .9708 and that the expenses and taxes per train mile
amounted to .9944, or a net loss per passenger train mile
of .0236.
The secretary of the company testified that on September 30, 1914, the company had a working balance of
$74,885.79 and that there were unpaid vouchers amounting to $1,027,319, some of which dated as far back as
November of the preceding year; that these vouchers did
not represent any fixed charges or any interest, and that

OCTOBER TERM. 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

the normal amount of approved unpaid vouchers was between $400,000 and $500,000.
The bvidence further shows that in order to avoid insolvency the company had reduced expenses in many
ways, including even the expense of repairs to locomotives
and cais of every description; that the president and vicepresident had voluntarily submitted to a reduction of
twenty per cent. in their salaries, and that the salaries
of all the other officers had been reduced on a sliding scale
up to ten per cent.
The falling off in earnings for the first 17 days in October
as compared with the preceding year was $165,742, or
approximately $10,000 a day, and the estimated saving
to the company of the taking off of the six trains involved
in this controversy was $10,000 a month.
The company introduced in evidence sixty-one affidavits from what is claimed to be substantially all of the
important business men in the towns which would be
most affected by the taking off of the trains, who agree
in saying that, while these trains were a convenience to
the traveling public, owing to business conditions then
prevailing there was not much travel and would not
be until the trade depression was over; that the taking
off of the trains would not materially injure the business
of the various towns in which they lived, and that if the
trains were losing money and the total business of the
company was not profitable, in their judgment the company should be allowed to discontinue them.
The territory between Meridian and Waynesboro is not
a productive agricultural section, and in the fifty-two
miles between the two towns there are five "fair sized
towns" and five small villages, which, according to the
1910 census, had a population of only 5,456, and there is
no evidence that the population had increased up to the
time of trial.
The service which remained between Meridian and

MISS. R. R. COMM. v. MOBILE & OHIO R. R. CO. 395
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Waynesboro to the south, after these trains were taken
off, consisted of two trains each way each twenty-four
hours, and between Meridian and Okolona there remained
three trains each way every twenty-four hours.
All of the trains which were contirued were through
interstate trains, which, while the local trains were being
run, made very few stops, but when the local trains were
taken off each of these trains made all the stops between
Waynesboro, Meridian and Okolona, with the result that,
whereas, formerly train No. 4, for example, made seven
stops between Meridian and Okolona, under the new
schedule it made twenty-two.
The evidence on which the Railroad Commission acted
is summarized in the record and it is impressively meager
in extent and inadequate in character. It consists of the
testimony of two men, wholly without qualifying training
or experience, as to the cost of operating such trains and of
a number of men as to the inconvenience which would be
caused by the taking off of the trains, chiefly to commercial
travelers living in Meridian desiring to visit the small
villages and hamlets on the line. The testimony of the
one member of the commission who appeared as a witness
shows that the reasonableness of the order was made to
turn on what the commission estimated was the "out of
pocket" cost, the immediate cash outlay in wages and
fuel, of operating the six trains. But this cannot be
accepted as a proper basis for determining such cost.
Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. North Dakota, 236 U. S. 585,
594, 596.
Thus summkrized this evidence shows that the plain-

tiff railroad company, an important interstate carrier,
was operating before the business depression incident to
the war on a margin so narrow that the $85,000 of profit for
the entire preceding year would have been more than
swallowed up in nine days by the shrinkage of business of
the company as it was when this controversy arose; that

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

without being able to meet its growing deficit the company had resorted to rigid economies of every sort before
it discontinued these six trains the continued operation of
which would have involved a loss of $10,000 a month; that
the three daily trains each way to the north of Meridian
which remained after the taking off of the trains which
gave rise to the controversy cannot be said to be inadequate to the needs of the comparatively small population
to be served, and that while the service to the south of
Meridian-with but two trains each way, in twenty-four
hours, and these running at hours inconvenient for the
transaction of business-cannot be thought a liberal
service, yet these orders were intended by the commission
to be in effect one order for the restoration of the six trains,
they were thus treated in the court below and must be so
treated here. Looking to the extent and productiveness
of the business of the company as a whole, the small
traveling population to be served, the character and large
expense of the service required by this order, and to the
serious financial conditions confronting the carrier, with
the public loss and inconvenience which its financial failure
would entail, we fully agree with the District Court in concluding that the order of the commission at the time and
under the circumstances when it was issued was arbitrary
and unreasonable and in excess of the lawful powers of the
commission, and that if enforced it would result in such
depriving of the railroad company of its property without
due process of law as is forbidden by the Fourteenth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
The order of the District Court granting the injunction
must be
Affirmed.

