OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

244 U. S.

WESTERN OIL REFINING COMPANY v. LIPSCOMB, CLERK OF THE COUNTY COURT OF
MAURY COUNTY, TENNESSEE, AS SUCCESSOR
OF THOMAS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
TENNESSEE.
No. 168.

Submitted March 23, 1917.-Decided June 4, 1917.

It is the essential character of commerce which determines whether it
is interstate or intrastate, and not the accident of through or local
bills of lading.
Where commodities are in fact destined from one State to another, a
rebilling or reshipment en route does not of itself break the continuity of the movement or require that any part be classified differently from the remainder.
Plaintiff, an Indiana corporation, for the purpose of filling orders taken
by its salesmen in Tennessee, shipped into that State a tank car of
oil and a carload of barrels and filled the orders from the cars through
a traveling agent, who drew the oil from the tank into the barrels,
or into others furnished by the customers, and made delivery to the
latter, collecting the price at the time. The cars were billed to the
plaintiff to a point in Tennessee where part of the orders was filled,
and thence rebilled to the plaintiff to another point in that State
where the remaining orders were filled and the supply of oil and
barrels exhausted, this in pursuance of plaintiff's plan and intention
at the time of original shipment that the cars should remain at the
first place only long enough to fill the orders from there and should
then proceed to the second. Held, that the movement of the goods
to the first place and its continuance thence to the second were connected parts of a continuing interstate commerce movement to the
latter, and that plaintiff could not be subjected to an occupation
or privilege tax under the law of Tennessee because of the sales
consummated at either destination.
Reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. H. C. True and Mr. A. L. Dorsey for plaintiff in error.

WESTERN OIL REFG. CO. v. LIPSCOMB.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Frank M. Thompson, Attorney General of the State
of Tennessee, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the court.
This was a suit by an Indiana corporation to recover
money paid under protest as an occupation or privilege
tax in Tennessee. The plaintiff had an oil refinery in
Illinois and a steel barrel factory in Indiana and was selling
the products of its refinery and factory upon orders taken
by traveling salesmen in its employ. For the purpose of
filling orders so taken in Maury County, Tennessee, it
shipped into that county from its refinery a tank car of oil
and from its factory a car of steel barrels. Both cars were
billed to the plaintiff at Columbia, in that county, and,
alter the orders from that place were filled, were rebilled
to the plaintiff at Mount Pleasant, in the same county,
where the orders from the latter place were filled. At
both places the orders were filled directly from the cars
by a traveling agent of the plaintiff and the purchase
price was collected at the time-this being what was contemplated when the orders were taken. If the order was
for both oil and barrels the oil was drawn out of the tank
car into the barrels and the two were jointly delivered,
and if oil alone was ordered it was drawn from the tank
car into barrels otherwise provided by the buyer. When
the cars were originally shipped they contained just the
quantity of oil and the number of barrels required to fill
the orders from the two places, and the plaintiff intended
that they should remain at Columbia only long enough
to fill the orders from that place and then should be sent
to Mount Pleasant so the orders from that place could also
be filled. The quantity of oil and the number of barrels
required to fill the orders from Mount Pleasant were in the
cars continuously from the time of the original shipment

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

until the cars reached that place. The plaintiff had no
office or local agent in Tennessee, nor any oil depot, storage
tank or warehouse in that State.
The statute, c. 479, Acts 1909, ยง 4, under which the
tax was exacted and paid, provides:
"Each and every person, firm, partnership, corporation,
or local agent having oil depots, storage tanks, or warehouses for the purpose of selling, delivering, or distributing
oil of any description, and each and every person, firm,
partnership, corporation, or local agent using a railroad
car or railroad depots for such purposes, shall pay a
privilege tax as follows."
The objectioan made to the tax, as applied in the circumstances stated, was that it was a tax upon interstate commerce and therefore violative of the commerce clause of
the Constitution. In the county court judgment was
given for plaintiff and this was reversed by the Supreme
Court of the State, which held, first, that what was done
up to and including the filling of the orders from Columbia
was interstate commerce and the State could not exact
a privilege tax therefor consistently with the commerce
clause of the Constitution (see Western Oil Refining Co. v.
Dalton, 131 Tennessee, 329), and, second, that what was
done thereafter-rebilling and forwarding the cars from
Columbia to Mount Pleasant and then filling the orders
from that place-was intrastate commerce and afforded
an adequate basis for exacting the tax.
Of the first part of the decision it is enough to say it is
supported by a long line of adjudicated cases in this court,
among them being these: Caldwell v. North Carolina, 187
U. S. 622; Dozier v. Alabama, 218 U. S. 124; Crenshaw v.
Arkansas, 227 U. S. 389; Stewart v. Michigan, 232 U. S.
665.
In the second part of the decision we think the court
erred. Unlike Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. Texas,
204 U. S. 403, this is not a case where at the time of the

WESTERN OIL REFG. CO. v. LIPSCOMB.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

original billing the shipper had no purpose to continue
the transportation beyond the destination then indicated;
nor is it a suit, as was that, to penalize a carrier which
rightly conformed its action to what was said in the bill
of lading. On the contrary, it is a case where the shipper
intended from the beginning that the transportation
should be continued beyond the destination originally
indicated and where there is nothing which requires that
decisive effect be given to the bill of lading. Ordinarily
the question whether particular commerce is interstate or
intrastate is determined by what is actually done and not
by any mere billing or plurality of carriers, and where
commodities are in fact destined from one State to another
a rebilling or reshipment en route does not of itself break
the continuity of the movement or require that any part
be classified differently from the remainder. As this court
often has said, it is the essential character of the commerce,
not the accident of local or through bills of lading, that
is decisive. Southern Pacific Terminal Co. v. Interstate
Commerce Commission, 219 U. S. 498; Ohio Railroad
Commission v. Worthington, 225 U. S. 101; Texas & New
Orleans R. R. Co. v. Sabine Tram Co., 227 U. S. 111;
Louisiana Railroad Commission v. Texas & Pacific Ry.
Co., 229 U. S. 336; Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Ry.
Co. v. Iowa, 233 U. S. 334, 343; South Covington & Cincinnati Street Ry. Co. v. Covington, 235 U. S. 537, 545.
Here, when the cars were started from Illinois and Indiana, it was intended by the shipper, as is expressly conceded, that they should be taken to Columbia, Tennessee,
where a portion-a definite portion-of the contents of
each was to be taken out and delivered, and that the cars,
with the remainder of the contents, should proceed to
Mount Pleasant in the same State; and this is what actually was done. Columbia was the destination of only
a part of the merchandise, not of all. As to part it was
merely the place of a temporary stop en route. The orig-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Dissent.

244 U. S.

inal billing to Columbia and the rebilling from there to
Mount Pleasant operated in the same way as would an
original billing to Mount Pleasant with the privilege of
stopping en route at Columbia to deliver a part of the
merchandise. Indeed, it is stipulated that the reason for
not billing the cars through to Mount Pleasant in this way
was because the carriers receiving the shipments "would
not allow such stop-over privilege, though the same is
allowed on nearly every other kind of shipment." Certainly the transportation of the merchandise destined to
Mount Pleasant was not completed when it reached
Columbia; nor was the continuity of its movement broken
by its temporary stop at that place. As to that merchandise the journey to Columbia and the journey from
there to Mount Pleasant were not iidependent, each of
the other, but in fact and in legal contemplation were connected parts of a continuing interstate movement to the
latter place.
It results that the tax was imposed for carrying on
interstate commerce, and so was repugnant to the Constitution and void.
Judgment reversed.

The

CHIEF JUSTICE

dissents, being of opinion that the

case is controlled by May v. New Orleans, 178 U. S. 496.

