ILLINOIS CENT. R. R. CO. v. GREENE.
244 U. S.

Syllabus.

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY v.
GREENE, AUDITOR, ET AL., CONSTITUTING
THE BOARD OF VALUATION AND ASSESSMENT
FOR THE STATE OF KENTUCKY, ET AL.
GREENE, AUDITOR, ET AL., CONSTITUTING THE
BOARD OF VALUATION AND ASSESSMENT FOR
THE STATE OF KENTUCKY, ET AL. v. ILLINOIS

CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY.
ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY v.
GREENE, AUDITOR, ET AL., CONSTITUTING
THE BOARD OF VALUATION AND ASSESSMENT

FOR THE STATE OF KENTUCKY, ET AL.
GREENE, AUDITOR, ET AL.,

CONSTITUTING

THE BOARD OF VALUATION AND ASSESSMENT FOR THE STATE OF KENTUCKY, ET AL.
v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
Nos. 642, 643, 644, 645.

Argued January 16, 17, 18, 1917.-Decided
June 11, 1917.

Greene v. Louisville & Interurban R. R. Co., ante, 499, followed in
holding: (1) That these are not in effect suits against the State,
(2) that plaintiff has not an adequate remedy at law under ยง 162, Ky.
Stats., and (3) that judicial relief may be granted against unlawful
discrimination resulting from general and systematic undervaluations by assessors.
Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. vi Greene, ante, 522, followed:
(1) As to the sufficiency of proof of general, systematic and notorious
undervaluation of property by assessors in Kentucky, (2) in holding
that the jurisdiction of the courts extends to enjoining the collection
of illegal taxes when assessed for state purposes as well as when
assessed for local purposes, and (3) in holding that, as applied to an

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

244 U. S.

interstate railroad, the Kentucky statutes require first an apportionment of a proper share of the railroad's total "capital stock" (tangible and intangible property) value to Kentucky, followed by a
deduction from Kentucky's portion thereof of the value of the railroad's tangible property in that State.
The evidence here warrants the conclusion that plaintiff's "franchise"
(intangible property) in Kentucky was valued by the Board of Valuation and Assessment upon the basis of 80 per cent. of its "capital
stock" (tangible and intangible property) apportioned to that State.
In the absence of fraud, the valuations made by an assessing board
are not judicially reixaminable unless resulting from some principle of assessment which is fundamentally wrong.
In this case no fundamentally wrong principle was involved in adopting
the capitalization-of-income rather than the stock-and-bond plan
for valuing a railroad system; in determining what rate of interest
should be selected, or how many years' earnings should be considered,
in capitalizing; or in finding what was the net income for a given year.
Although the fact that property is part of a system and has its uses
only in connection with other parts of the system may be considered
by a State in taxing that portion of the system which is within her
borders, yet the idea of organic unity must not be made the means
of unlawfully taxing property without the State belonging to persons
domiciled elsewhere.
It being contended that in valuing upon a mileage basis that portion of
plaintiff's railroad system which was taxable in Kentucky the Board
of Valuation and Assessment did not make due allowance for the
excess value per mile due to costly terminals in other States, Held
that, in the absence of contrary proof, the Board must be presumed
to have made such allowance.
Plaintiff insisted that certain investment securities held by it in its
treasury in another State should not be considered as part of its
assets in assessing its intangible property, apportionable to Kentucky, averring in its pleading that they had no connection with its
business of transportation and did not represent railroads or other
properties operated by it. This contention being rejected for want
of evidence upon the character of the securities and their relations
to plaintiff's system, plaintiff on rehearing contended that, as tfiey
represented a controlling interest in other railroads outside the State,
the mileage of such railroads should be taken into account, under
Ky. Stats., ยง 4081, in the apportionment, Held that the District
Court did not abuse its discretion in ruling that this contention
came too late.
209 Fed. Rep. 465, affirmed.

ILLINOIS CENT.
244 U. S.

. R. CO. v. GREENE.

Opinion of the Court.

THE cases are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Blewett Lee and Mr. Edmund F. Trabue, with whom
Mr. Robert V. Fletcher, Mr. John C. Doolan and Mr. Attilla
Cox, Jr., were on the briefs, for the Illinois Central Railroad Co.
Mr. Charles Carroll, Mr. Marvel M. Logan, Attorney
General of the State of Kentucky, and Mr. John L..Rich,
with whom Mr. Charles H. Morris, Assistant Attorney
General of the State of Kentucky, was on the briefs for
Greene et al.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
These are appeals and cross-appeals from two final
decrees of the District Court enjoining (upon certain conditions) the enforcement of franchise tax assessments for
the respective years 1912 'and 1913, made against the
Illinois Central Railroad Company (plaintiff below in each
case) by Henry M. Bosworth and others, constituting the
Board of Valuation and Assessment of the State of Kentucky, who were among the Qriginal defendants, and to
whose offices the cross-appellants Robert L. Greene and
others succeeded pending the suits, and were thereupon
brought in as parties defendant. Plaintiff being an Illinois
corporation, the federal jurisdiction was invoked upon the
ground of diversity of citizenship, and also of alleged infringement of plaintiff's rights under the due process and
equal protection provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment; the assessments being attacked as having been
made by the Board in a manner not in accordance with
the state law, as including in the valuation property not
within the State, contrary to the due process clause, and
as being based upon a discriminatory rule of valuation as
compared with other property in the State, and thus

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

amounting to a denial, of the equal protection of the laws.
The equity jurisdiction was invoked upon the usual
grounds. The pleadings are involved, and no attempt
will be made to summarize them. In the case relating
to the 1912 assessment, they differ somewhat from those
in the case relating to the assessment for the following
year; but the two cases were consolidated for the purposes
of final hearing. They resulted in decrees granting relief
to the plaintiff to the extent of equalization with the basis
of assessment customarily adopted by assessing officers
with respect to other property in the State, and denying
relief upon the other grounds of complaint. Plaintiff
appealed to this court in both cases upon the ground that
it was entitled to more ample relief; defendants took crossappeals upon the ground that no relief ought to have been
granted.
The cases were heard here together with several cognate
cases, this day decided, viz: Nos. 617 and 618, Greene v.
Louisville & InterurbanR. R. Co., ante, 499, and Nos. 778
and 779, Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Greene,
ante, 522.
The salient facts of the present cases are as follows:
During the two years pertinent to the controversy, plaintiff operated a system of railroads extending throughout
the State of Kentucky and ten other States, having,
according to the averments contained in the bills of complaint and the proofs upon which the cases were heard,
a total mileage owned, operated, leased, or controlled
amounting to 4,550.54, of which 563.79 miles, or 12.3 per
cent., were in Kentucky. For the year 1912, the Board of
Valuation and Assessment fixed plaintiff's capital stock
valuation for the State of Kentucky at $27,124,240, and
deducted from this the tangible property assessment made
by the Railroad Commission, $12,377,383, leaving the
franchise assessment $14,746,857. The District Court
granted a restraining order, followed by a preliminary

ILLINOIS CENT. R. R. CO. v. GREENE.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

injunction, conditioned that plaintiff should pay taxes,
state and local, on a valuation of $6,618,585 (209 Fed.
Rep. 465), and eventually made a final decree enjoining
the enforcement of the assessment, conditioned upon
plaintiff's paying taxes upon an additional valuation of
$1,347,212, or $7,965,797 in all.
For the year 1913, the capital stock value fixed for Kentucky was $23,679,180, the assessed value of tangible property $12,478,903, which, being deducted, left $11,200,277 as
the franchise valuation. The court granted a restraining
order upon payment of taxes on an assessment of
$6,000,000, followed this with a temporary injunction
upon the same terms, and made a final decree granting
a permanent injunction upon condition of the payment
of taxes upon $2,161,067 in addition to the $6,000,000 upon
which taxes had been paid under the order for preliminary
injunction.
With respect to three of the questions raised by defendants herein: (a) That the suits are not maintainable
because in effect suits against the State; (b) that plaintiff
has an adequate remedy at law under ยง 162, Kentucky
Statutes; and (c) that plaintiff is not entitled to relief
by way of equalization because of the undervaluation of
property in general by the local assessors; these cases, like
the Louisville & Nashville Cases, are controlled by the
decision in Greene v. Louisville & Interurban R. R. Co.,
ante, 499. Upon the question of the sufficiency of the proofs
to warrant the conclusion of the District Court as to the
general, systematic, and notorious undervaluation of
property in Kentucky by the assessing officers for purposes of taxation, and as to the ratio of such undervaluation, the present cases are indistinguishable from the
Louisville & Nashville Cases, ante, 522, and are controlled
by our decision therein., Upon the point that the jurisdiction of .the court extends to enjoining the collection of
illegal taxes, whether assessed for state or for local pur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

poses, the present cases are controlled by the decision in
the Louisville & Nashville Cases.
This disposes of all assignments of error filed by the
cross-appellants (defendants below).
In these cases, as in those last mentioned, it is earnestly
insisted by plaintiff that the District Court erred in holding that the Kentucky statutes, properly construed, require first an apportionment of a proper share of the total
"capital stock" value to Kentucky followed by a deduction from Kentucky's proportion thereof of the value of its
tangible property in the State, instead of holding that the
total tangible property in and out of Kentucky should first
be deducted from the total capital stock value before
apportionment to the State. We need only repeat what
was said in the Louisville & Nashville Cases, that this is a
question of state law that has been definitely passed upon
by the Kentucky Court of Appeals in Commonwealth v.
Covington & Cincinnati Bridge Co., 114 Kentucky, 343,
whose decision the District Court properly followed.
We come to questions peculiar to the present cases.
For the year 1912 the Board of Valuation and Assessment made a preliminary assessment of the franchise
at $21,500,000, of which notice was given to plaintiff,
and, after a hearing, finally assessed the franchise at
$14,746,857; a result reached, as already stated, by taking
Kentucky "capital stock" at $27,124,240, and deducting
the -tangible property assessment of $12,377,383. In
granting the preliminary injunction (209 Fed. Rep. 465),
the court, deeming that the Board had found the fair cash
value of the portion of plaintiff's capital stock in the State
to be $27,124,240, equalized this with the undervaluation
of other property in the State on a basis of 70 per cent.
in order to arrive at a proper valuation of the franchise
for the purposes of a temporary injunction. Upon the
final hearing, the court reached the conclusion that the
valuation of $27,124,240 was itself the result of an equaliza-

ILLINOIS CENT. R. R. CO. v. GREENE.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tion by the Board at 80 per cent. of what they had found
to be the fair cash value of the capital stock in Kentucky;
that is to say, that they had found the fair cash value to
be $33,905,300.
Having concluded that equalization
should be made upon the basis of 60 per. cent., the court
applied this percentage to the $33,905,300, making the
equalized capital stock value $20,343,180, deducting from
which the assessed value of the tangibles $12,377,383,
left $7,965,797 as the value of the franchise. Plaintiff
contends that there was no sufficient evidence to support
the conclusion that the Board's valuation of $27,124,240
was the result of an 80 per cent. equalization; but the
contention is clearly unfounded.
There is a similar contention, equally unfounded, with
respect to the mode in which the District Court applied
the 60 per cent. equalization factor to the 1913 valuation.
As to the mode in which the Board arrived at a capital
stock valuation for the entire system, and the mode in
which the Kentucky apportionment was arrived at, several contentions are made by plaintiff besides the one of
which we already have disposed. They are: (a) That
when the Board capitalized earnings as an index to value
they took 6 per cent. as a basis instead of 72 or 8 per cent.,
either of which is said to be a more proper rate upon the
ground that because of annual unproductive items of
expense, amounting to nearly or quite 2 per cent. of
plaintiff's capitalization, the higher rate is necessary in
order to yield a net 6 per cent. return upon the investment;
(b) that when the stock-and-bond method was employed
as an index to value the highest instead of the average
market prices were employed; (c) that in capitalizing
earnings gross income was used, although it included income from investments in the company's treasury, instead of net operating income, which it is insisted is the
proper factor; (d) that plaintiff in each year had in its

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.

Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

treasury, at its principal office without the State, large
amounts of investment securities that improperly were included in the sum found as the value of its aggregate capital stock and apportioned in part to Kentucky; and (e)
that plaintiff owned large and costly terminals at Chicago,
New Orleans, Memphis, and elsewhere outside of Kentucky, causing a great excess value mile for mile of plaintiff's lines outside the State as compared with those inside, and that this excess value was not eliminated either
before or after the apportionment to Kentucky.
The first three points relate to valuation, the last two
to apportionment. The District Court properly held
that the action of the Board must be sustained unless it
was made to appear that they had adopted a fundamentally wrong principle, or had been guilty of fraud. It
held further, that no fundamentally wrong principle was
involved in determining whether such a railroad system
should be valued on the capitalization-of-income or on
the stock-and-bond plan; or, if the former, what rate of
interest should be used in capitalizing, or how many years'
earnings should be considered, or what was in fact the
amount of net income for a given year; or, if the stockand-bond plan was adopted, what was the value of the
stock and bonds; and that on these and similar matters
the action of the Board, in the absence of fraud, was binding upon the court. In this we concur.
The claim for an allowance by reason of the treasury
securities and the terminals situate in other States is based
upon the principle laid down in Fargo v. Hart, 193 U. S.
490, 499, and similar cases, to which we adhere, that a
State cannot tax property outside of its jurisdiction belonging to persons domiciled elsewhere, and that although
the fact that property is part of a system and has its actual
uses only in connection with other parts of the system
may be considered by the State in taxing that portion of
the system which is within its borders, yet the notion of

ILLINOIS CENT. R. R. CO v. GREENE.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

organic unity must not be made the means of unlawfully
taxing property without the State.
As to the terminals, the District Court held that since
it did not appear but that the Board made due allowance
on account of them, it must be presumed that they did
make such an allowance. As to 'the treasury securities,
the court held that plaintiff had not made an adequate
showing to the Board of Valuation and Assessment; that
it did not appear but that the Board had -given proper
consideration to them; and that plaintiff had not put the
court in possession of the evidence upon which to determine whether the securities were a part of its "unit,"
or why the securities were held by plaintiff instead of being
distributed to the stockholders, and that the case of
Coulter v. Weir, 127 Fed. Rep. 897, 909-911, did not apply
because there the property in question had been placed
in the hands of trustees for the benefit of stockholders.
Upon petitions for rehearing, plaintiff insisted that if the
treasury securities were to be taken as a part of the unit,
then, since these securities represented a controlling interest in certain large lines of railroad lying outside of
Kentucky (the Central of Georgia, the Yazoo & Mississippi Valley, and the Indianapolis Southern systems),
the apportionment should take the mileage of these controlled lines into account, which would have yielded a
total mileage of all lines amounting to 7,862.95, and Kentucky mileage 560.49, or only 7.13 per cent. for the year
upon which the 1912 assessment was based, and a somewhat smaller percentage for the following year. To this
the court responded that the contention came too late,
and it cannot be said that this was an unreasonable view,
or showed an abuse of discretion. In addition to the
averments respecting comparative mileage contained in
the original bills, it was distinctly stated in an amended
bill 'in the case pertaining to the 1912 assessment that the
treasury securities in question'had not "any connection

664.

OCTOBER TERM, 1016.
Syllabus.

244 U. S.

whatever with the business of transportation carried on
by complainant, and that none of said stocks, bonds or
other properties covered or represented the physical railroads or other properties operated by complainant."
In criticism of the conclusions of the court upon these
and some other points, a most elaborate argument is
submitted; but we see no sufficient ground for disturbing
the decision.
Decrees affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES, MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE dissent in Nos. 643 and 645.

and
In

Nos. 642 and 644, they concur in the result.

DARNELL v. EDWARDS ET AL., CONSTITUTING
THE MISSISSIPPI RAILROAD COMMISSION.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.
No. 216. Argued April 25, 1917.-Decided June 11, 1917.
In determining whether railroad rates fixed by a state authority are
confiscatory because not yielding a proper return, the basis of calculation is the fair value of the property used in the service of the
public.
Therefore, when a railroad which was originally constructed and owned
by two is operated by one of them under an arrangement whereby
his interest will end and become vested in the other at the expiration
of a term of years, the original investment of the operating owner
should not be charged in annual instalments against the annual
operating revenue, in determining whether the rates fixed are remunerative.
There is a strong presumption in favor of rates fixed by an experienced
administrative body after a full hearing.
Rates should not be held too low upon evidence that they proved un-

