OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

244 U. S.

cretion conferred upon the Commissioner is demonstrated
by his answer in this case.
Judgment reversed ard case remanded with instructions to
reverse the judgment of the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia and direct it to discharge the rule and dismiss the petition.

THE KRONPRINZESSIN CECILIE. 1
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.
No. 922. Argued April 16, 17, 1917.-Decided May 7, 1917.
Upon the facts stated in the opinion, Held, that the master and owners
of the German Steamship "Kronprinzessin Cecilie" were justified
in apprehending that she would be seized as a prize, and her German
and other passengers detained, if she completed her voyage to Plymouth and Cherbourg on the eve of the present war; that return to
this country before Plymouth was reached was a reasonable and justifiable precaution; and that libelants have no cause of action for
failure to deliver their shipments of gold at those ports, although,
semble, the risk did not fall within the exception of "arrest and restraint of princes, rulers or people" expressed in their. bills of lading.
In an ordinary contract of carriage, not made in the expectation that
war may intervene before delivery, peril of belligerent capture affords
an implied exception to the carrier's undertaking, the contract being
silent on the subject.
The court rejects the argument that although a shipowner may give
up the voyage to avoid capture after war is declared he is never at
liberty to anticipate war; and holds that where war is reasonably
and correctly anticipated, liability for non-delivery of freight can
not depend upon a nice calculation that delivery might have been
made and capture avoided if the voyage had gone on.
238 Fed. Rep. 668, reversed.
The docket title of this case is: North German Lloyd, Claimant of
the Steamship "Kronprinzessin Cecilie," Petitioner, v. Guaranty Trust
Company of New York and National City Bank of New York.

THE KRONPRINZESSIN CECILIE.
244 U. S.

Argument for Petitioner.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Joseph Larocque and Mr. Walter C. Noyes, with
whom Mr. Joseph D. Bedle was on the brief, for petitioner:
The case is indistingifishable from The Styria, 186 U. S.
1. In that case and in Nobel's Explosives Co. v. Jenkins
(1896), L. R., 2 Q. B. 326, the masters acted under orders
from their owners which were just as peremptory as the
order received by Captain Polack in this case. In this
case as in those the action taken was in accordance with
master's independent judgment. In the Styria Case there
was no actual restraint or danger, either existing or in
futuro.
Justification of the ship's return did not depend on the
existence of an actual state of war. The Styria, supra;
The Teutonia (1872), L. R., 4 P. C. 171.
If the officers and directors of a corporation which owns
a ship owe a duty to passengers, crew and cargo, as well
as to the ship itself, to use modern means of communication to inform the master of impending dangers which
come to their knowledge, such duty must carry with it a
corresponding right. If the duty be to protect the different interests, from threatening danger, then, when the
duty is performed, liability cannot grow out of the performance of it. Such officers and directors in these days
of wireless telegraphy may owe the duty of taking even
peremptory action for the protection of all interests.
But if they do owe such duty, and exercise their best
judgment, they are entitled to the benefit of it. Every
consideration which makes the judgment of the master
controlling as relating to all interests must operate to
give the same effect to the judgment of the owner, when
he is required to act for the protection of all.
To exonerate the ship it was not essential that both
ship and cargo be exposed to a common peril.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Petitioner.

244 U. S.

The German cargo owners and the German and Austrian passengers and members of the crew were entitled
to just as much consideration as were the Guaranty Trust
Company and National City Bank. The Teutonia, supra;
The San Roman (1873), L. R., 5 P. C. 301. The uniform
course adopted by all German shipowners in issuing warnings to their ships on July 30th and 31st, 1914, is in itself

a clear indication that the interruption of the Cecilie's
voyage was fully justified.
The order received by wireless from the Imperial Marine Office may, in itself, be considered a restraint. At
least, it shows that in the opinion of the German Government, English, French and Russian ports would not be
safe for German vessels on and after August 1, 1914,
and, therefore, constitutes authoritative and conclusive
proof of the wisdom of Captain Polack's course.
The majority of the Circuit Court of Appeals have
confused principles which are peculiar to the law of marine
insurance with those which are applicable to cases arising
under bills of lading.
Policies of insurance are contracts of indemnity. To
warrant a recovery under a policy covering arrest and
restraint of princes, etc., it is not sufficient to show that
the subject of insurance. was in danger of loss, or that a
loss was actually sustained through fear of a peril insured
against, or iii attempting to avoid such peril. The peril
insured against must have operated directly upon the
subject of insurance. "See Olivera v. Union Ins. Co., 3
Wheat. 183; Phillips or Insurance, vol. 1, ยง 1114. This
rule is largely aimed at f'raudulent and factitious claims
of constructive loss. Hadkinson v. Robinson, 3 Bos. &
Pul. 388. It is based also on the consideration that the
thing insured -is not totally destroyed. Ibid.
A bill of lading constitutes the contract between the
shipper and carrier, and where the latter undertakes to
exercise reasonable care to prevent a loss-from an excepted

THE KRONPRINZESSIN CECILIE.
244 U. S.

Argument for the Guaranty Trust Co. of New York.

peril, there is a corresponding assent by the former that
the carrier may adopt reasonable precautions to avoid
such peril.
It would be an absurdity to hold that the performance
of a duty creates a liability for damages.
In the case of a bill of lading, even though the excepted
peril be the proximate cause, this will not protect the
carrier if the negligence of his servants be a contributing
cause, nor if after a loss without such contributory negligence they fail to take reasonable care to minimize the
damage. In the latter case the carrier will be responsible
for the increased damage although not liable for the origi-'
nal damage. It being the duty of the carrier not to expose
the shipper's goods to a restraint, he incurs no liability
by performing this duty, even if the precautions adopted
involve a deviation from his course.
The true rule is as follows: A reasonable apprehension
of capture or other imminent peril justifies a master in
deviating from his direct course and taking such steps as
a prudent man would take for the purpose of avoiding
danger, and in so doing he is entitled to consider the safety
of his ship as well as the cargo, and the safety of the belligerent as well as of the neutral cargo. Nobel's Explosives
Co. v. Jenkins, supra; Pole v. Cetovich (1860), 9 C. B.
(N. S.) 430; The Teutonia (1872), L. R., 4 P. C. 171, 179;
The San Roman, supra, p. 306.
The libelants are not entitled to a refund of the prepaid
freight.
Mr. J. Parker Kirlin, with whom Mr. CharlesR. Hickox
was on the brief, for the Guaranty Trust Company of
New York:
The Kronprinzessin Cecilie was a common carrier, liable
as an insurer for failure to deliver the libelant's gold in
England unless excused by the terms of the bill of lading.
Liverpool Steam Co. v. Phenix Ins. Co., 129 U. S. 397;

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for the Guaranty Trust Co. of New York.

244 U. S.

PropellerNiagarav. Cordes, 21 How. 7, 22; 1 Parson's Ship
& Adm., p. 171; Moore on Carriers, p. 306.
The failure to complete the voyage and deliver the cargo
is not excused by restraint of princes or other exceptions
in the bill of lading. The voyage was not abandoned
because of "arrest and restraint of princes." The master
received specific and definite orders from his owners to
turn back. This message was designedly false in its statement of fact, for war had not broken out between Germany and England, France or Russia, or between any two.
The master accepted the message as an'order and acted
accordingly. His testimony shows that unless and until
he received the order from the owners he never intended to
abandon his voyage. The exception of "enemies" and
"arrest and restraint of princes," is found in juxtaposition
with other exceptions dealing with loss or damage caused
by violence or by uncontrollable forces. It is, of course,
to be construed as ejusdem generis with the other excepted causes; that is, it is to be limited to actual arrests
and restraints by force, or to steps taken to avoid the
reasonable certainty of an arrest and restraint by force,
in case the voyage should be continued. In The Styria,
186 U. S. 1, the exception was merely "restraints of
princes." Having been introduced into the contract by the
shipowners, the exception is to be construed against them.
The Caledonia, 157 U. S. 134, 137; Compania v. Brauer,
168 U. S.104, 118; Carver, Carriage by Sea, 5th ed., ยง 77.
Recalling the vessel and abandoning the voyage from
fear or in the expectation that war might break out is
quite a different thing from taking such a step to escape
the moral certainty of,an arrest and restraint.
An arrest involves an actual seizure by hostile forces.
Olivera v. Union Ins. Co., 3 Wheat. 183, 189. A justifiable
fear may be equivalent to an actual arrest but only in such
cases as Nobel's Explosives Co. v. Jenkins (1896), 2 Q. B.
326, where arrest was a practical certainty. The law in

THE KRONPRINZESSIN CECILIE.
244 U. S.

Argument for the Guaranty Trust Co. of New York.

America is clear that a defense, based on an exception of
"arrest and restraint of princes" where there is no actual
arrest, must establish a danger of capture that was imminent, apparently remediless and morally certain. Craig v.
United Insurance Co., 6 Johns. 226; Corp v. United Insurance Co., 8 Johns. 277; Oliver v. Maryland Insurance
Co., 7 Cranch, 487; Smith v. Universal Insurance Co., 6
Wheat. 176; Richardson v. Maine Ins. Co., 6 Massachusetts, 102.
While these cases arose under policies of insurance, the
clause of restraint of princes received the same construction that would be given to it in a charter party or bill of
lading. The Xantho (1887), L. R., 12 App. Cas. 503;
Hamilton v. Pandorf (1887), L. R., 12 App. Cas. 518;
The G. R. Booth, 171 U. S. 450. In case of a deviation to
avoid an arrest the shipper must be able to recover his
loss either from his insurer, on the ground that the certainty of arrest which is thus avoided is equivalent to an
actual arrest within the meaning of his policy, or from the
carrier on the ground that the danger was so remote and
uncertain that the deviation was not justified. 1 Parson's
Ship. and Adm., p. 172.
The law in England on the subject accords completely
with the decisions in our courts. Hadkinson v. Robinson,
3 Bos. & Pul. 388; Forster v. Christie, 11 East, 205; Atkinson v. Ritchie, 10 East, 530; Nickels v. London &
ProvincialMarine & General Insurance Co., 6 Com. Cases,
15; Kacianoff v. China Traders Insurance Co. (1914),. 3
K. B. 1121; Becker v. London Assurance Corporation
(1915), 3 K. B. 410, affirmed (1916), 2 K. B. 156; Mitsui
v. Watts, Watts & Co. (1916), 2 K. B. 826, affirmed by
House of Lords March 16, 1917.
The directors were not justified in speculating on the
future and assuming that war would break out. Janson
v. Driefontein (1902), A. C. 484, 497, 498; People v.
McLeod, 25 Wend. 483.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for the Guaranty Trust Co. of New York.

244 U. S.

In making this shipment on a German rather than a
British steamer it cannot be said that the libelant assumed
any risk other than in accordance with the terms of the
bill of lading. It must be inferred that both parties expected that the contract would be completely carried
out unless in the happening of contingencies mentioned
in the bill of lading that might prevent performance.
It is not to be presumed, in the absence of all evidence,
that either France or England would have committed
the hostile act of attempting to arrest and detain this
German vessel before a state of war between them and
the German Empire existed. Prinz Adalbert, the Kronprinzessin Cecilie, 1916, 32 Times L. R. 378. The liability
of the petitioner is to be determined by the posture of
affairs that existed. The Savona (1900), Prob. 252, 259.
The claimant has been unable to produce any proof that
the vessel could not have completed the voyage without
the intervention of any excepted peril. On the contrary
there is no reason on this record to doubt that if the
steamer had proceeded on her voyage, she would have
reached Plymouth, discharged her cargo, and left in
safety.
The abandonment of the voyage would not have been
justified if it resulted from an exercise of the master's
discretion. If the master can be considered as having
exercised any discretion or concurred in judgment with
what the owners ordered, it could only be on the assumption that the facts given to him by the owners, in their
message, were true. They deliberately told the master
a falsehood because they did not dare to rely on his discretion if they told him the truth. The owners' hands
are not clean in the matter and they should not be permitted to gain any benefit from their own wrong. King
v. Delaware Insurance Co., 6 Cranch, 74. The owner
cannot justify its order by assuming there was a shortage
of coal. The duty of supplying the vessel with a sufficient

THE KRONPRINZESSIN CECILIE.
244 U. S.

Argument for the Guaranty Trust Co. of New York.

quantity of coal for the expected contingencies of the
voyage in all its stages was on the shipowner. The Vortigem (1899), Prob. 140; Thin v. Richards (1892), 2 Q. B.
141; McIver v. Tate Steamers (1903), 1 K. B.-362; Greenock
S. S. Co. v. Maritime Ins. Co. (1903), 2 K. B. 657.
The possibility of increased political tension must have
been in the owners' minds when the vessel sailed, and they
were bound to supply sufficient coal to meet such expected
contingencies.
The master had no general discretion to deviate from
the voyage except under the compulsion to avoid an excepted peril, imminent, pressing and which had begun to
operate. Morrison v. Shaw S. & A. Co. (1916), 1 K. B.
747, 758; 1 Parson's Ship. & Adm*., p. 21; The Julia Blake,
107 U. S. 418, 427, 428; Blackenhagen v. London Assurance Co., 1 Camp. 454. His action was not for or in the
interest of the shippers. It was not for the success of the
voyage but for the sake of the ship. Nobel's Explosives
Co. v. Jenkins, supra, and The Styria, supra, do not apply.
The master had no general discretion to violate the
contract for the sake of other goods and passengers. The
case is not one in which the doctrines of general average
could have application.
It is a necessary inference from The Julia Blake, supra,
and other recent authorities that the ordinary authority
of a master has lessened very much in recent years. The
telegraph has enabled the owner to perform much of the
master's work in foreign ports. The system of printed
bills of lading, and the extensive development of regular
lines of steamers, with their accompanying agents and
branches abroad, have converted the master into little
more than the chief navigator of the ship. The master
had no right to disobey the owners' orders. Codwise v.
Hacker, 1 Caines, 526; Robinson v. Hinckley, 2 Paine, 547,
20 Fed. Cas. 1013; The Roebuck, 1 Asp. Mar. Law Cas.,
N. S. 387.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

The telegram received by the master on the night of
August 1, 1914,' twenty-four hours after the steamer had
turned back towards New York, purporting to be signed
"Country's Naval Office," could not be used to justify
the wrongful deviation made twenty-four hours earlier,
even if it had been pleaded or properly proved.
If the abandonment was not due, in a legal sense, to an
arrest and restraint of princes, it constituted a wrongful
deviation, and all clauses in the bills of lading that may
have been designed to bar or limit any of the libelant's
claims for damages were thereby nullified.
Mr. James M. Beck, with whom Mr. Carl A. Mead and
Mr. Edward E. Blodgett were on the brief, for the National
City Bank of New York.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This writ was granted to review two decrees that reversed decrees of the District Court dismissing libels
against the Steamship Kronprinzessin Cecilie. 238 Fed.
Rep. 668. 228 Fed. Rep. 946, 965. The libels alleged
breaches of contract by the steamship in turning back
from her voyage from New York and failing to transport
kegs of gold to their destinations, Plymouth and Cherbourg, on the eve of the outbreak of the present war. The
question is whether the turning back was justified by the
facts that we shall state.
The Kronprinzessin Cecilie was a German steamship
owned by the claimant, a German corporation. On July
27, 1914, she received the gold in New York for the above
destinations, giving bills of lading in American form, referring to the Harter Act, and, we assume, governed by
our law in respect of the justification set up. Early on
July 28 she sailed for Bremerhaven, Germany, via the
mentioned ports, having on board 1892 persons, of whom

THE KRONPRINZESSIN CECILIE.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

667 were Germans,. passengers and crew; 406, Austrians;
151, Russians; 8, Bulgars; 7, Serbs; 1, Roumanian; 14,
English; 7, French; 354, Americans; and two or three from
Italy, Belgium, Holland, &c. She continued on her voyage
until about 11.05 P. M., Greenwich time, July 31, when
she turned back; being then in 46' 46' N. latitude and 300
21' W. longitude from Greenwich and distant from Plymouth about 1070 nautical miles. At that moment the
master knew that war had been declared by Austria against
Servia, (July 28,) that Germany had declined a proposal
by Sir Edward Grey for a conference of Ambassadors in
London; that orders had been issued for the German fleet
to concentrate in home -waters; that British battle squadrons were ready for service; that Germany had sent an
ultimatum to Russia, and that business was practically
suspended on the London Stock Exchange. He had proceeded about as far as he could with coal enough to return
if that should prove needful, and was of opinion that the
proper course was to turn back. He reached Bar Harbor,.
Maine, on August 4, avoiding New York on account of
supposed danger from British cruisers, and returned the
gold to the parties entitled to the same.
On July 31 the German Emperor declared a state of war,
and the directois of the company at Bremen, knowing
that that had been or forthwith would be declared, sent
a wireless message to the master: "War has broken out
with England, France and Russia. Return to New York."
Thereupon he turned back. The probability was that the
steamship, if not interfered with or prevented by accident
or unfavorable weather, would have reached Plymouth
between 11 P. M. August 2, and 1 A. M. August 3, and
would have delivered the gold destined for England to be
forwarded to London by 6 A. M., August 3. On August
first at 9.40 P. M., before the earliest moment for probably
reaching Plymouth, had the voyage kept on, the master
received a wireless message from the German Imperial

OCTOBER TERM, 1916..
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

Marine Office: "Threatening danger of war. Touch at no
port [of] England, France, Russia." On the same day
Germany declared war on Russia. On August 2, Germany
demanded of Belgium passage for German troops, and
seized two English vessels with their cargoes. Explanations were offered of the seizures, but the vessels were detained. The German Army entered Luxembourg, and
there were skirmishes with French troops. On August 3
Germany was at war with France, and at 11 P. M., on
August 4, with England. On August 4 some German
vessels were detained by England, and early on the fifth
were seized as prize, e. g., Prinz Adalbert [1916] P. 81. No
general history of the times is necessary. It is enough to
add that from the moment Austria declared war on Servia
the great danger of a general war was known to all.
With regard to the principles upon which the obligations of the vessel are to be determined it is plain that,
although there was a bill of lading in which the only exception to the agreement relied upon as relevant was "arrest
and restraint of princes, rulers or people," other exceptions
necessarily are to be implied, at least unless the phrase
restraint of princes be stretched beyond its literal intent.
The seeming absolute confinement to the words of an
express contract indicated by the older cases like Paradine
v. Jane, Aleyn, 26, has been mitigated so far as to exclude
from the risks of contracts for conduct (other than the
transfer of fungibles like money,) some, at least, which, if
they had been dealt with, it cannot be believed that the
contractee would have demanded or the contractor would
have assumed. Baily v. De Crespigny, L. R. 4 Q. B. 180,
185. Familiar examples are contracts for personal service,
excused by death, or contracts depending upon the existence of a particular thing. Taylor v. Caldwell, 3 Best &
Smith, 826, 839. It has been held that a laborer was excused by the prevalence of cholera in the place where he
had undertaken to work. Lakeman v. Pollard,43 Maine,

THE KRONPRINZESSIN CECILIE.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

463. The same principles apply to contracts of shipment.
If it had been certain that the vessel would have been
seized as prize upon reaching England there can be no
doubt that it would have been warranted in turning back.
See Mitsui & Co., Limited, v. Waits, Watts & Co., Limited,
[1916] 2 K. B. 826, 845. The Styria, 186 U. S. 1. The
owner of a cargo upon a foreign ship cannot expect the
foreign master to run greater risks than he would in respect
to goods of his own nation. The Teutonia, L. R. 4 P. C.
171. The San Roman, L. R. 5 P. C. 301, 307. And when
we add to the seizure of the vessel the possible detention
of the German and some of the other passengers the proposition is doubly clear. Cases deciding what is and what
is not within the risk of an insurance policy throw little
light upon the standard of conduct to be applied in a case
like this. But we see no ground to doubt that Chief Justice
Marshall and Chief Justice Kentwould have concurred in
the views that we express. Oliver v. Maryland Insurance
Co., 7 Cranch, 487, 493. Craig v. United Insurance Co., 6
Johns. 226, 250, 253. See also British & Foreign Marine
Ins. Co., Limited, v. Samuel Sanday & Co., [19161 A. C.
650.
What we have said so far we hardly suppose to be denied.
But if it be true that the master was not bound to deliver
the gold in England at the cost of capture it must follow
that he was entitled to take reasonable precautions to
avoid that result, and the question narrows itself to
whether the joint judgment of the master and the owners
in favor of return was wrong. It was the opinion very
generally acted upon by German shipowners. The order
from the Imperial Marine Office if not a binding command
at least shows that if the master had remained upon his
course one day longer and had receiv ed the message it
would have been his duty as a prudent man to turn back.
But if he had waited till then there would have been a
question whether his coal would hold out. Moreover if

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Dissent.

244 U. S.

he would have been required to turn back before delivering, it hardly could change his liability that he prophetically and rightly had anticipated the absolute requirement by twenty-four hours. We are wholly unable to
accept the argument that although a shipowner may give
up his voyage to avoid capture after war is declared he
never is at liberty to anticipate war. In this case the
anticipation was correct, and the master is not to be put
in the wrong by nice calculations that if all went well he
might have delivered the gold and escaped capture by the
margin of a few hours. In our opinion the event shows
that he acted as a prudent man.
- We agree with the counsel for the libellants that on
July 27 neither party to the dontract thought that it would
not be performed. It was made in the usual form and,
as we gather, charged no unusual or additional sum because'of an apprehension of war. It follows, in our opinion,
that the document is to be construed in the same way that
the same regular printed form would be construed if it
had been issued when no apprehensions were felt. It
embodied simply an ordinary bailment to a common
carrier subject to the implied exceptions which it would be
extravagant to say were excluded because they were not
written in. Business contracts must be construed with
business sense, as they naturally would be understood by
intelligent men of affairs. The case of The Styria, 186
U. S. 1, although not strictly in point tends in the direction of the principles that we adopt.
Decree reversed.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY and MR. JUSTICE CLARKE dissent,
upon grounds expressed in the opinions delivered by Circuit Judges Dodge and Bingham in the Circuit Court of
Appeals-238 Fed. Rep. 668.

