OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

244 U. S.

basis for regarding the carrier as in any way bound by this
part of the statute, save as it provides that an agreement
to be bound by it shall be presumed in the absence of a
declaration to the contrary. But such a presumption
cannot be indulged here, and this for the reason that by
the federal act the entire subject, as respects carriers by
railroad and their employees in interstate commerce, was
taken without the reach of state laws. It is beyond the
power of any State to interfere with the operation of that
act, either by putting the carriers and their employees to
an election between its provisions and those of a state
statute or by imputing such an election to them by means
of a statutory presumption. The third question therefore
must be answered in the negative.
It follows that the Court of Errors and Appeals erred
in failing to give controlling effect to the federal act.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

and MR. JusTCE CLARKE

dissent.

LANE, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR, v.
HOGLUND.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS

OF THE DISTRICT OF

COLUMBIA.
No. 365.

Argued April 11, 1917.-Decided May 21, 1917.

Section 7 of the Act of March 3, 1891, c. 561, 26 Stat. 1095, 1099, lays
upon the Secretary of the Interior a plain duty to cause a patent to
be issued upon a homestead entry when no contest or protest proceeding has been initiated and no order has been made, in his Department, for the purpose of challenging the validity of the entry,
within two years from the issuance of the final receiver's receipt.

LANE v. HOGLUND.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

An adverse report by a deputy supervisor of a National Forest, challenging a homestead entry within the forest for insufficiency of residence and cultivation, but merely filed in the General Land Office
and not acted on until after the two year limitation period had expired, Held not a "pending contest or protest" within the meaning
of ยง 7 of the Act of March 3, 1891, supra.
Notwithstanding its reluctance to award or sustain a writ of mandamus
against an executive officer, the court is constrained to do so where
the duty sought to be enforced is plain and nondiscretionary and
the situation exigent.
44 App. D. C. 310, affirmed.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Kearful, with whom
Mr. S. W. Williams was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. F. W. Clements, with whom Mr. B. E. Hinton was
on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JusricE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of

thk court.
This is a petition for a writ of mandamus against the
Secretary of the Interior. In the court of first instance the
writ was refused, but the Court of Appeals directed that
it be granted, 44 App. D. C. 310, and our jurisdiction
arises out of the fact that the construction of a statute of
the United States and the duty of the Secretary of the

Interior thereunder are drawn in question.

The statute

is the following provision in ยง 7 of. the Act of March 3,

1891, c. 561, 26 Stat. 1095, 1099:
"That after the lapse of two years from the date of the
issuance of the receiver's receipt upon the final entry of
any tract of land under the homestead, timber-culture,
desert-land, or pre~tption laws, or under this act, and
when there shall be no pending contest or protest against
the validity of such entry, the entryman shall be entitled

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

to a patent conveying the land by him entered, and the
same shall be issued to him."
What is meant by a "pending contest or protest" is the
question under the statute. The facts are not in dispute
and are these:
In 1902 Svan Hoglund 'settled upon and made preliminary entry under the homestead law of a tract of public
land in the Eureka land district in California. In 1905
the land was included within a national forest reserve by
a proclamation of the President, 34 Stat. 3001, which
contained the following excepting clause:
"Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which may have been, prior to the date
hereof, embraced in any legal entry or covered by any
lawful filing duly of record in the proper United States
Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been
made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within
which to make entry or filing of record has not expired; Provided, that this exception shall not continue to apply to
any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler
or claimant continues to comply with the law under wich
the entry, filing or settlement was made."
In due time thereafter, and after due notice by publication of his purpose so to do, Hoglund submitted final proof
of compliance with the homestead law and of his right to
obtain the title. The proof was accepted as satisfactory
by the local officers and on August 6, 1907, a receiver's
receipt and a register's certificate upon final entry were
regularly issued to him.
May 29, 1909, a report from a deputy forest supervisor
recommending the cancellation of the entry "on account
of non-residence and lack of cultivation" was received at
the General Land Office. The report indicated that the
entryman was a single man, and hada three-room house,
a small barn and some fencing on the land; that he had
three acres plowed and under cultivation; that the land

LANE v. HOGLUND.
244U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

had much valuable timber thereon, but none had been
cut except for improvements, and that the entryman had
established actual residence on the tract in June, 1902, but
had really lived thereon only at unnamed periods, "going
away to work for wages four or five months at a time."
No action upon this report was taken until April 19, 1910.
On that day, almost three years after the date of the receiver's receipt,. the Commissioner of the General Land
Office ordered a proceeding in the local land office to determine whether the entryman had established and maintained a residence upon the land. Notice of this was given
to him-apparently it was his first information that his
entry was called in question-and a hearing was had.
The local officers and the Commissioner of the General
Land Office in turn found the facts in his favor, but the
Secretary of the Interior found them the other way and
ruled that the entry was not confirmed or protected by the
provision in ยง 7 of the Act of March 3, 1891, supra. 42
L. D. 405; 43 L. D. 538 and 540.
The Secretary directed that the entry be cancelled and
the present petition was then filed. It prayed for a writ
of mandamus commanding the Secretary to recall the
order for the cancellation of the entry, to reinstate the
entry upon the records and to cause a patent to be issued
to the entryman.
For present purposes no importance attaches to the
creation of the forest reserve after the primary and before
the final entry. The entryman was free under the terms
of the President's proclamation to proceed with the steps
essential to obtain a final entry and ultimately the full
title, and to such a final entry the. statute-the provision
in ยง 7-has the same application as if the land were without instead of within the reserve.
The statute makes it very plain that if at the expiration
of two years from the date of the receiver's final receipt
there is no "pending contest or protest" against the entry

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

its validity no longer may be called in question-in the
words of the act, "the entryman shall be entitled to a
patent . . . and the same shall be issued to him."
The purpose to fix his right and to command its recognition is obvious. What, then, is the "pending contest or
protest" which is to exclude a subsisting entry from this
statute of limitation and repose? Is it some proceeding
which is begun, ordered or set in motion in the interest
of another claimant or of the public to test or determine
the validity of the entry? Or may it be a mere report,
letter or other communication, confidential or otherwise,
which has not been and may never be acted upon, which
may be neither known nor accessible to the entryman,
or which may be so general, vague or intemperate in its
statements as not in itself to merit attention? Independently of the occasion for the enactment and of the practice
of the Land Department, there hardly could be any difference of opinion about the answer. And when these are
understood we think there is no room Whatever for a difference; in short, the reference is to a proceeding against
the entry and not to some communication which at most
is only suggestive of the propriety of such a proceeding
and may never become the basis of one.
As applied to public land affairs the term "contest"
has been long employed to designate a proceeding by an
adverse or intending claimant conducted in his own interest against the entry of another, and the term "protest"
has been commonly used to designate any complaint or
objection, whether by a public agent or a private citizen,
which is intended 'to be and is made the basis of some
action or proceeding in the public right against an existing
entry. This explains the use in the statute of both terms
in the disjunctive, and accords with the instructions of
May 8, 1891, 12 L. D. 450, wherein each term is spoken of
as meaning a "proceeding" under the Rules of Practice
to cancel or defeat an entry, and wherein it is said that

LANE v, HOGLUN4D.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"when there are no proceedings initiated within that
time [the two years] by the government or individuals the
entryman shall be entitled to patent." The same view
is shown in the supplemental instructions of July 1, 1891,
13 L. D. 1, wherein the Secretary said to the Commissioner: "You will, therefore, approve for patent all entries
against which no proceedings were begun within the
period of two years from the date of the final certificate,
but where proceedings have been, or shall be, begun within
the specified period, the entry will be held to have been
taken out of the operation of this statute, and such cases
will proceed to final judgment as heretofore."
Subject to some exceptions and qualifications which
need not be specially noticed, this continued to be the
view and practice of the Land Department for many years
and in conformity therewith many thousands of entries
were carried to patent or otherwise as their particular
facts caused them to fall upon one side of the line or the
other. But in the case of Mertie C. Traganza, 40 L. D.
300, decided November 17, 1911, a sharp departure was
taken from the earlier view and it was held that the
statute has "no reference to proceedings by the United
States, or its officers or agents" against such entries and
does "not affect the conduct or action of the Land Department in taking up and disposing of final proof of
entrymen after the lapse of the two years mentioned in
the act." That view, however, did not long have the
approval of the Department. In the case of Jacob A.
Harris, 42 L. D. 611, decided December 13, 1913, the
subject was reconsidered, attention being given to the
occasion for the enactment and to its prior administration,
and the conclusion was reached that the earlier view,
long maintained, was right and that the practice thereunder should be restored. In that case, as in this, a forest
officer reported that the claimant had not established or
maintained a residence upon the land, and no action was

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

taken on the report until after the expiration of the twoyear period. But in that case the entry was held to be confirmed under the statute while here the ruling was the other
way. Of the situation which prompted the enactment
of the statute it was said in the decision in that case:
"The records of this Department disclose that, during
several years preceding 1891, a very large number of
entries were suspended by the General Land Office on
vague and indefinite suggestions of fraud or noncompliance
with law, to await investigation by special agents of that
bureau. These suspensions were so numerous and the
force available for investigation was so insufficient as to
create a practical blockade in the issuance of patents to
the serious prejudice of bona fide claimants under the
public land laws. In many instances, the charge or suggestion upon which the suspension was ordered had no foundation of fact other than the proximity of the land to
other tracts embraced in entries alleged to be fraudulent
or otherwise illegal. The reports of this Department to the
public land committees of the Senate and House of Representatives, concerning this legislation, and the debates of
those bodies thereon, leave no doubt of the purpose
of Congress that said proviso should correct the hardship
of this situation and provide against a repetition thereof."
And it was also said:
"Passed, primarily, to rectify a past and to prevent
future abuses of'the departmental power to suspend entries', the proviso is robbed of its essential purpose and
practically repealed by the decision in the Traganza
case.

.

.

"Upon mature consideration, the Department is convinced that a contest or protest, to defeat the confirmatory
effect of the proviso, must be a proceeding sufficient, in
itself, to place the entryman on his defense or to require
of him a showing of material fabt, when served with
notice thereof."

LANE v. 'HOGLUND.
244 U. S.

181

Opinion of the Court.

That decision was followed in George Judicak, 43 L. D.
246; Joseph Crowther, ibid. 262; Instructions, ibid. 294'
and 322.
Looking, then, at the statute in the light of all that
bears upon its purpose and meaning, we think it certainly
and unmistakably lays upon the Secretary of the Interior,
as the head of the Land Department, a plain duty to cause
a patent to be issued to a homestead entryman whenever'
it appears, as concededly it did in this instance) that two
years have elapsed since the issue of the receiver's receipt
upon the final entry and that during that period no proceeding has been initiated or order made which calls in
question the validity of the entry. In the exercise of its
discretion Congress has said, in substance, by this statute
that for two years after the entryman submits final proof
and obtains the receiver's receipt the entry may be held
open for the initiation of proceedings to test its validity,
but that if none such be begun within that time it shall be
passed to patent as a matter of course. Thus in a case like
this, where according to the conceded facts no proceeding
was begun within the prescribed period, there is no room for
the exercise of discretion or judgment, but on the contrary
a plain duty to see that the entryman receives a patent.
True this court always is reluctant to award or sustain
a writ of mandamus against an executive officer, and yet
cases sometimes arise when it is constrained by settled
principles of law and the exigency of the particular situation to do so. Kendall v. United States, 12 Pet. 524;
United.States v. Schurz, 102 U. S. 378; Roberts v. United
States, 176 U. S. 221; Garfield v. Goldsby, 211 U. S. 249;
Ballinger v. Frost, 216 U. S. 240. And see Noble v. Union
River Logging RailroadCo., 147 U. S. 165; American School
of Magnetic Healing v. McAnnulty, 187 U. S. 94. This,
we think, is such a case. As quite apposite we excerpt the
following from the unanimous opinion in Roberts v. United
States, supra, p. 231:

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

"Unless the writ of mandamus is to become practically
valueless, and is to be refused even where a public officer
is commanded to do a particular act by virtue of a particular statute, this writ should be granted. Every statute to some extent requires construction by the public
officer whose duties may be defined therein. Such officer
must read the law, and he must therefore, in a certain
sense, construe it, in order to form a judgment from its
language what duty he is directed by the statute to perform. But that does not necessarily and in all cases make
the duty of the officer anything other than a purely ministerial one. If the law direct him to perform an act in
regard to which no discretion is committed to him, and
which, upon the facts existing, he is bound to perform, then
that act is ministerial, although depending upon a statute
which requires, in some degree, a construction of its language by the officer. Unless this be so, the value of this
writ is very greatly impaired. Every executive officer
whose duty is plainly devolved upon him by statute
might refuse to perform it, and when his refusal is brought
before the court he might successfully plead that the performance of the duty involved the construction of a statute by him, and therefore it was not ministerial, and the
court would on that account be powerless to give relief.
Such a limitation of the powers of the court, we think,
would be most unfortunate, as it would relieve from judicial supervision all executive officers in the performance
of their duties, whenever they should plead that the duty
required of them arose upon the construction of a statute,
no matter how plain its language, nor how plainly they
violated their duty in refusing to perform the act required."
We therefore conclude that the Court of Appeals rightly
directed that the writ be granted.
Judgment affirmed.

