OCTOBER TERM, ,1916.
Syllabus.

244 U. S.

U. S. 281, 294, 295; Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Ry. Co.
v. United States, 220 V. S. 559, 575; Delk v. St. Louis &
San Francisco R. R. Co., 220 U. S. 580, 586; Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Rigsby, 241 U. S. 33, 43.
Again it is insisted that error was committed in submitting the case to the jury because there was no evidence of
pecuniary loss resulting to Gotschall's father, on whose
behalf the suit was brought. But this disregards the undisputed fact that the deceased was a minor and,as under
the Minnesota law the father was entitled to the earnings
of his soft during minority, the question is one not of right
to recover, but only of the amount of damages which it
was proper to award.

Affirmed.

OHIO RIVER CONTRACT COMPANY v. GORDON,
JUDGE OF THE JEFFERSON CIRCUIT COURT.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE

OF KENTUCKY.
No. 594.

Argued April 9, 1917.-Decided May 21, 1917.

The fact that personal injuries sued for occurred while plaintiff was
employed on work which defendant was performing under contract
with the United States does not prevent a state court from entertaining the action.
An Indiana corporation, in constructing a canal for the United States
on a federal reservation in Kentucky, carried the excavated materials
over a railroad it had built for the purpose, to land belonging to
another and dumped them there with such owner's consent. The
dump and, in part, the railroad were within Kentucky and outside
the reservation. Held, that without regard to whether the jurisdiction over the reservation was exclusively federal, the transport and
deposit of the materials beyond its limits was such a doing of business in Kentucky as subjected the corporation to the jurisdiction
of the courts of that State in a transitory action.

OHIO RIVER CONTRACT CO. v. GORDON.
244 U S.

69

Opinion of the Court.

The corporation was sued in a Kentucky court for injuries suffered by
an employee while engaged upon the work Within the reservation, a
summons being served in the reservation on an agent whom it had
designated under the Kentucky law for receiving service of process
in case of suit, and an alias summons being served on the agent while
off the reservation at his home in Kentucky. Held, that, if the first
service was void upon the ground that jurisdiction over the reservation was exclusively in the United States, the second was good, since
the corporation did business in the State outside the reservation.
An action for personal injuries suffered on a reservation under exclusive
jurisdiction of the United States, being transitory, may be maintained in a state court which has personal jurisdiction of the defendant.
170 Kentucky, 412, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. W. Overton Harris,with whom Mr. A. E. Richards
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Matthew O'Doherty, with whom Mr. Morton K.
Yonts was on the briefs, for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
In July, 1914, one Haines sued the Ohio River Contract
Company, the plaintiff in error, and Swisher, one of its
employees, in the Circuit Court of Jefferson County, Kentucky, to recover damages resulting from personal injuries alleged to have been occasioned by the negligence
of the defendants while Haines was in the employ of the
company. The defendant company by appropriate
pleadings challenged the power of -the court to entertain
the suit both because of the want of.jurisdiction over the
corporation and over the subject-matter of the suit.
Briefly the facts were these:!
The Contract Company was: a corporation organized

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

under the laws of Indiana and had its principal place of
business in that State. At the time in question it was
engaged within the geographical limits of the State of
Kentucky in constructing under a contract with the
United States Government a canal with locks and dam
on the Ohio River on a piece of land known as the Canal
Reservation acquired by the United States by purchase
or condemnation from the State of Kentucky with the
consent of its legislature. While most of the work under
the contract was performed on the land thus acquired,
the earth and rocks excavated in the construction of the
canal were hauled over railroad tracks laid by the defendant company on land outside of the canal reservation and,
through an arrangement with the Kentucky and IndianaTerminal Railway Company, were dumped on its property
in the State of Kentucky. The accident which gave rise
to the injuries complained of occurred in the course of the
work 'on the canal reservation. In conformity with a
statute of Kentucky the company had designated an
agent in the State upon whom process might be served
in the event suits Were brought against it in the State.
The summons issued in the cause was served on the designated agent when he was on the land of the United States,
but subsequently an alias sunmmons was served on him at
his home in Louisville.
Under these facts it was insisted the court was without
jurisdiction (a) because when the accident occurred the
company and the plaintiff were engaged in work under a
contract with the-United States Government; (b) because
the cause of action arose on land acquired by the United
States by purchase or condemnation with the consent of
the legislature of Kentucky and therefore under Article I,
ยง8, clause 17, of the Constitution of the United States
the jurisdiction of the Federal Government was exclusive;
(c) because the service of the original summons was void,
since it was. made upon the land of the United States

OHIO RIVER CONTRACT CO. v. GORDON.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

where, it was insisted, state process cannot run; and (d)
because the service of the alias summons was also void
since the company transacted no business in the State
and the person served Was not its agent for any purpo,e in
the State, but represented the company only in its work
on the reservation. The objections of the company to the
jurisdiction were overruled and the case was set down for
trial. Thereupon the company, desiring a review of the
jurisdictional questions and in order to avoid the consequences of the rule under the Kentucky practice that the
appearance of a party on appeal operates as a waiver of
a claim of want of jurisdiction over his person (Western
Indemnity Company v. Rupp, 235 U. S. 261), applied to
the court below for a writ of prohibition directed to the
trial judge to restrain him from proceeding further in the
cause. A temporary restraining order was granted, but
on final hearing the petition was overruled and the writ
of prohibition denied, and upon the theory, which was
adequately presented below, that to subject the defendant
corporation to the jurisdiction of the state court under the
circumstances stated would be a violation of due process
in conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment, this writ of
error was prosecuted.
At the present term, on application of the plaintiff in
error, an order was issued to restrain further proceedings
in the cause in the courts below pending the decision of the
case here.
We at once put out of view the contention that the
trial court was without jurisdiction because the parties
at the time of the accident were engaged in work under a
contract with the United States Government since the
want of merit in the proposition has been previously
established. Gromer v. Standard Dredging Company, 224
U. S. 362, 371.
The remaining contentions are also we think without
merit. Conceding for the sake of the. argument only that

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

244 U. S.

the canal reservation was within the exclusive legislative
jurisdiction of Congress, it is clear from the facts we have
stated that the business carried on by the corporation
was not confined fo the land owned by the United States,
since it is admitted that in order to dispose of the material
excavated in the construction of the canal a line of railway
was built' which extended beyond the reservation and
connected with the tracks of the Kentucky and Indiana
Terminal Railway, upon whose property all of the earth
and rocks were dumped. This clearly constituted the
doing of business within the State and subjected the corporation to the jurisdiction of 'the Kentucky courts.
-Assuming also for argument's sake only that the original
summons was void because served on the agent designated
by the company while fe was on the reservation, the subsequent service of. the alias summons on the agent at his
home in Louisville was valid since, -as we have seen, the
company was doing business in the State. And finally,
an action for personal injuries being in its nature transltory and susceptible of being brought in any jurisdiction in
which the defendant may be impleaded, there is no foundation for the contention that the court had no jurisdiction over the subject-matter of the suit.
Affirmed.

CHESBROUGH v. WOODWORTH.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH
CIRCUIT.
No . 179.

Argued April 19, 20, 1917.-Decided May 21, 1917.

An action under Rev. Stats., ยง 5239, against a director of a national
bank for damages sustained by an individual in consequence of

violations of the National Bank Act, necessarily involves a federal
question.

