OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

244 U. S.

common interest. It might be a convenience to the Railway Company to have these numerous claims of shippers
determined by the master in the District Court; but such
a course would certainly involve great inconvenience to
many of the shippers. The bill cannot be maintained as
one to prevent multiplicity of suits.
Affirmed.

ILLINOIS SURETY COMPANY v. THE JOHN DAVIS
COMPANY ET AL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 235. Argued April 27, 1917.-Decided June 4, 1917.
The purpose of the Act of February 24, 1905, 33 Stat. 811, is to provide security for the claims of all persons who furnish labor or material on public works of the United States; the act, and bonds gi~ien
under it, are to be construed liberally to effectuate this purpose; and
the release of sureties through mere technicalities is not to be encouraged.
S, while conducting his business under supervision of a creditors'
committee, entered into a contract with the United States for the
doing of certain work, and gave bond with surety to secure claims
for labor and materials under the Act of February 24, 1905, supra.
After part performance of the contract, he and the creditors formed
a corporation to take over his affairs, which, without the consent of
the United States or the surety, received a transfer of all his business
and assets, and thereafter under the management of S, as president,
and the control of the creditors through the board of directors, continued for a time to perform the contract. Held: (1) That in view
of ยง 3737, Rev. Stats., the transfer could not effect an assignment of
the contract but amounted at most to a subletting.
(2) That as the responsibility of the contractor under the contract
and the actual management of the business were not changed, nor

ILLINOIS SURETY CO. v. JOHN DAVIS CO.
244 U. S.

377

Counsel for Parties.

the surety prejudiced, the transfer did not operate to discharge the
surety from past or future liability.
(3) That labor and materials furnished in the prosecution of the work
under the contract, after the transfer of the contractor's business to
the corporation, were to be regarded as furnished to him, within the
meaning of the Act of February 24, 1905, supra, as well as to the
corporation, and that the latter, besides, might be deemed the successor of the contractor within the condition of the bond, binding
him "his heirs, successors," etc.
Questions of liability to pay interest under a bond given to secure payment for labor and materials, furnished under a construction contract with the United States, are determinable by the law of the
State in which the contract and bond were made and to be performed.
Under the law of Illinois the liability of a surety on a bond is extended
beyond the penalty by way of interest from the date when the liability on the bond accrued.
Where claims are all liquidated and amounts are not disputed, but
only liability under the bond, the surety, which has not elected to
pay into court, is properly chargeable with interest from commencement of suit upon the aggregate of the claims allowed as reduced to
the penal amount of the bond.
Acts of creditors upon which the surety neither acted nor relied, which
did not affect it and which are not inconsistent with a resort to the
security of the bond, afford no basis for an equitable estoppel in favor
of the surety.
The renting of a plant of cars, track and equipment actually used in
the construction of public work for the United States is a furnishing
of "materials "within the meaning of the Act of February 24, 1905;
and the rent reserved, together with the loading and freight expenses
incident to bringing the plant to and from the place of use, are liabilitif covered by the contractor's bond.
226 Fed. Rep. 653, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in t.e opinion.

Mr. Albert J. Hopkins for plaintiff in error.
Mr. William D. McKenzie and Mr. Worth Allen, with
whom Mr. Newton Wyeth, Mr. Robert J. Cary, Mr. F.
Harold Schmitt and Mr. Charles S. Holt were on the briefs,
for defendants in error.

OCTOBER TERM,. 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is an action against the Illinois Surety Company on
a bond given by one Schott under Act of Congress, February, 24 1905, 33 Stat. 811, to secure performance of his
contract for work on the Naval Training Station at
Chicago.' It is brought for the benefit of persons who
furnished labor or materials. The bond provides:
"The condition of the above bond is such, that if the
said above bounden principal, W. H. Schott, his or their
heirs, successors, executors, or administrators
shall promptly make payments to all persons supplying
him or them labor and materials in the prosecution of the
work provided for in the aforesaid contract, then this
obligation to be void and of no effect; otherwise to remain
in full force and virtue."
The bond was given on August 3, 1908. Schott was
then heavily indebted; and his business was being conducted under the supervision of a creditors' committee.
Later, on the advice of that committee, the Schott Engineering Company was incorporated to take over the
business; and on January 2, 1909, all the assets were
transferred to it. Schott became president, the members
IThe act, which is entitled "An Act for the protection of persons
furnishing materials and labor for the construction of public vorks"
provides that a contractor's bond shall include the obligation to:
"promptly make payments to all persons supplying him or them with
labor and materials in the prosecution othe work provided for in such
contract; and-any person, company, or corporation who has furnished
labor or materials used in the construction or repair of any public
building or public work, and payment for which has not been made,
shall have the right to intervene and be made a party to any action
instituted by the United States on the bond of the contractor, and to
have their rights and claims adjudicated in such action and judgment
rendered thereon, subject, however, to the priority of the claim and
judgment of the United States."

ILLINOIS SURETY CO. v. JOHN DAVIS CO.
244 U. S.

379

Opinion of the Court.

of the creditors' committee directors. Substantially all
the capital stock was issued to Schott, and all was retained
by him except $36,000 preferred stock which was later
sold-the proceeds being used to pay debts. Neither
the Government nor the Surety Company was advised of
the transfer, which left the management and the conduct
of the business unchanged; and the work was proceeded
with continuously from the execution of the bond until
January 14, 1910,.when both Schott and the Company
were adjudicated bankrupt. After a short interruption,
the work was resumed by the Receiver under authority of
the court; and settlement was made with the Government.
Twenty-seven creditors, six of whom furnished labor or
materials prior to January 2, 1909, the rest of whom had
claims arising between that date and the bankruptcy,
sought to recover on the bond.
The District Court allowed recovery on five of the claims.
aggregating $15,333.24, which accrued prior to the transfer
of the business to the Schott Engineering Company. The
Circuit Court of Appeals reversed that judgment and
allowed the claims of all who joined in the writ of error
to that court-nineteen aggregating $38,121.02; but it
reduced them pro rata to make the aggregate equal the
penalty of the bond-31,047.18. It then allowed interest
on all from the date of the commencement of the suit.
226 Fed. Rep. 653. The Surety Company appealed to
this court and contends:
(1) As to each claim that it was released from liability
by the transfer of the business, to the Schott Engineering
Company during the progress of the work.
(2) As to each claim that interest should not begin to
run before the date when the amount payable on all
claims was ascertained by the judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals.
.(3) As to certain claims, that the creditors are estopped
by specific acts from enforcing the liability upon the bond.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

(4) As to the claim of the United States Equipment
Company, that rental for cars, track and equipment is
not a claim for "labor and materials" recoverable on bond.
These contentions will be considered in their order.
First: The purpose of the act was to provide security
for the payment of all persons who provide labor or material on public work. This was done by giving a claim
under the bond in lieu of the lien upon land and buildings
customary where property is owned by private persons.
Decisions of this court have made it clear that the statute
and bonds given under it must be construed liberally, in
order to effectuate the purpose of Congress as declared in
the act. In every case which has come before this court,
where labor and materials were actually furnished for
and used in part performance of the work contemplated
in the bond, recovery was allowed, if the suit was brought
within the period prescribed by the act. Technical rules
otherwise protecting sureties from liability have never
been applied in proceedings under this statute.1 As the
basis of recovery is supplying labor and material for the
work, he who has supplied them to a subcontractor may
claim under the bond, even if the subcontractor has been
fully paid. Mankin v. Ludowici-Celadon Co., 215 U. S. 533.
1 Guaranty Co. v. Pressed Brick Co., 191 U. S. 416; Hill v. American
Surety Co., 200 U. S. 197; United States Fidelity Co. v. Struthers-Wells
Co., 209 U. S. 306; Mankin v. Ludowici-Celadon Co., 215 U. S. 535;
Title Guaranty & Trust Co. v. Crane Co., 219 U. S. 24; United States

Fidelity Co. v. Bartlett, 231 U. S. 237; A. Bryant Co. v. N. Y. Steam

Fitting Co., 235 U. S. 327; Illinois Surety Co. v. Peeler, 240 U. S. 214.
See also EquitableSurety Co. v. McMillan, 234 U. S. 448. In Hardaway
v. National Surety Co., 211 U. S. 552, where recovery was denied, the
"use plaintiffs" had not furnished materials or labor, but were financiers. In Texas Cement Co. v. McCord, 233 U. S. 157, the questions
involved were whether suit was brought within the statutory period.
In United States Fidelity Co. v. Kenyon, 204 U. S. 349; United States v.

Congress Construction Co., 222 U. S. 199; Title Guaranty & Surety Co.
v. Harlan & Hollingsworth, 228 U. S. 567, the questions raised were as
to the jurisdiction of the court.

ILLINOIS SURETY CO. v. JOHN DAVIS CO.
244 U. S.

381

Opinion of the Court.

If Schott had formally sublet the contract to the Engineering Company, the Surety Company would clearly be
liable. But the transfer of the business was, at most, a
subletting; since under Rev. Stats., ยง 3737, Schott could
not assign a contract with the United States.
It is urged that the bond referring to Schott provides
protection only to those "supplying him or them labor
and materials." But the claims in question were in a very
practical sense furnished him-as well as the Engineering
Company. He remained liable on the contract; and no
one else was known to the United States. Furthermore,
if attention is to be directed to the precise wording of
the bond, it should be noted that it refers to Schott "his
or their heirs, successors, executors or administrators";
and the Engineering Company may properly be deemed
a successor. The argument that the surety's risk ought
not to be increased by holding it liable for the default of
strangers to the original contract is of no greater force in
the case of an assignee than it is in that of the subcontractor. The Surety Company could protect itself by
insisting that the contractor require a bond from all subcontractors and assignees. The Surety Company was in
nowise prejudiced by the transfer of the business, since
the management remained unchanged; and no reason is
shown for applying the rule of strictissimijuris. Guaranty
Co. v. Pressed Brick Co., 191 U. S.416, 426.
Second: The contract and bond were made in Illinois
and were to be performed there. Questions of liability
for interest must therefore be determined by the law of that
State. Scotland County v. Hill, 132 U. S.107, 117. Under
the law of Illinois the liability of a surety on a bond is
extended beyond the penalty by way of interest from the
date when the liability on the bond accrued. Holmes
v. Standard Oil Co., 183 Illinois, 70. See United States v.
U. S. Fidelity Co., 236 U. S.512, 530, 531. The liability
here accrued at least as early as the commencement of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

suit. The Surety Company contends that the amount
each claimant was to receive was not made definite until
it was actually decided by the Court of Appeals. But
the claims were all for liquidated amounts; and in no
instance was the amount in dispute. The controversy
was merely as to which of the claimants should be entitled to share in the liability under the bond. The Surety
Company might have paid into court at the commencement of the suit an amount equal to the penalty of the
bond. It did not elect to do so; and as the aggregate
liability on the claims exceeds the penalty, it was properly
held for an additional amount equal to interest from the
commencement of the suit.
Third: The contention of the Surety Company that
certain of the claimants are estopped from enforcing
liability on the bQnd rests upon different acts in respect
to the several creditors. As to some it is because they
filed against the estates in bankruptcy of both Schott and
the Engineering Company the whole of their claims for
material delivered in part to each. As to one creditor the
estoppel is predicated upon the fact that in answer to an
enquiry he recommended that the receiver in bankruptcy
complete the contract. As to another creditor the estoppel
is predicated upon the fact that he filed his claim in bankruptcy against the Engineering Company while the materials had been furnished to Schott. As to still another, the
contention rests upon the fact that having claims against
both Schott and the Engineering Company, he had stated
to the Engineering Company a single account covering
all the items and had accepted part payment; and furthermore had participated in the activities of the creditors' committee which supervised the business throughout
the whole period. Such acts lack all the elements of an
equitable estoppel. The Surety Company was not led
thereby to do or to omit to do anything. It did not rely
upon, nor was it affected by, any of the acts it now calls

MISSOURI, KANS. & T.EX. RY. CO. v. WARD.
244 U. S.

383

Syllabus.

attention to. Dickerson v. Colgrove, 100 U. S. 578, 580.
There is in fact no inconsistency between the claimants'
earlier acts and their attempt to recover on the bond.
The Surety Company's contention is without merit.

Fourth: The specific objection made to the claim of the
United States Equipment Company, for rental of cars,
track and equipment used at the Naval Training Station

and the expense of loading the plant and freight thereon
to and from the station is also unfounded. The Surety
Company contends that this is not supplying "labor and
materials." The equipment was used in the prosecution

of the work. Material was thus supplied, although,a loan
serving the purpose, no purchase of it was made. The
expense of loading and freight were properly included with
the fixed rental as recoverable under the bond. Title

Guaranty & Trust Co. v. Crane Co., 219 U. S. 24, 34.
Judgment affirmed.
Dissenting: MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER and MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS.

MISSOURI, KANSAS & TEXAS RAILWAY COMPANY OF TEXAS ET AL. v. WARD ET AL., AND

HOUSTON & TEXAS CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS, THIRD SUPREME
JUDICIAL DISTRICT, OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 241. Submitted April 30, 1917.-Decided June 4, 1917.
Under the Carmack Amendment, the bill of lading issued by the initial
carrier governs the entire transportation; the liability of each paiticipating carrier is fixed by its valid, applicable terms; and new con-

