OCTOBER TERM, 1916.,
Syllabus.

244 U. S.

very clear by a consideration of the opinion in Ex parte
Roe, 234 U. S. 70, which gave effect to and applied the
rule laid down in Ex parte Harding.
Indeed, when the situation dealt with in Ex parte
Harding is taken into view, it becomes apparent that the
confusion and conflict which had imperceptibly arisen
from obscuring the lines dividing the statutory methods
for review of questions of jurisdiction and the effort to
review them by the writ of mandamus which was corrected
by the decision in that case would be recreated by now
permitting a resort to the writ of mandamus in this case.
And this also makes clear that however grave may be
the inconvenience arising in this particular case from the
construction which the court gave to the statute and upon,
which it based its assertion of jurisdiction, greater inconvenience in many other cases would necessarily come
from now departing from the established rule and reviewing the action of the court by resort to a writ of mandamus
instead of leaving the correction of the error to the orderly
methods of review established by law.
Rule discharged.

FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF BAY CITY v. FELLOWS, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE STATE
OF MICHIGAN, ON THE RELATION OF UNION
TRUST COMPANY ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.

No. 764.

Argued March 22, 23, 1917.-Decided June 11, 1917.

By the principles fully settled in McCulloch v. Maryland and Osborn
v. Bank, and other cases, the implied power of Congress to confer
a particular function upon a national bank is to be tested, not by
the nature of the function viewed by itself, but by its relations to all

FIRST NATIONAL BANK v. UNION TRUST CO.
244 U. S.

417

Statement of the Case.

the functions and attributes of the bank considered as an entity;
the necessity or appropriateness of the function .should be considered
with reference to the situation to which it relates; and, as to what is
necessary or appropriate, a court should not substitute its judgment
for the judgment of Congress.
As settled also by those cases, the circumstance that a function is of
a class subject to state regulation does not prevent Congress from
authorizing a national bank to exercise it; nor would it lie with the
state power to forbid this.
A business not inherently such that Congress may emppwer national
banks to engage in it may nevertheless become apprQpriate to their
functions if, by state law, state banking corporafions, trust companies, or other rivals of national banks are permitted to carry it on.
Section 11 (k) of the Act of December 23, 1913, establishing the Federal Reserve Board, in authorizing the board "To.grant by special
permit to national banks applying therefor, when not in contravention of state or local law, the right to act as trustee, executor, administrator, or registrar of stocks and bonds under such rules and
regulations as the said board may prescribe," is, as here construed,
a valid exercise of the power of Congress.
The section authorizes the specified functions to be exercised by national
banks when the right to perform them is given by state law, or is
deducible therefrom through being sd conferred on state banks or
corporations whose business in some degree rivals that of national
banks; and it gives administrative power to the Reserve Board as a
means of co6rdinating.such functions,' in their exercise by national
banks, with the reasonable and nondiscriminating provisions of state
law regulating their exercise as to state corporations.
The section is not open to the objection that it confers legislative power
on the Reserve Board.
In proiding that the specified. functions may be exercised "when not
in contravention of state or local law," Congress impliedly, if not expressly, authorized the institution and conduct in the state supreme
court of proceedings in the nature of quo warranto to test whether
the exercise of such finctions by a national bank is consistent with
the state law.
192 Michigan, 640, reversed.

THE case involves the validity of provisions in the Federal Reserve Bank Act authorizing national banks to act
as trustees, etc., when allowed by the Reserve Board and
not in contravention of state law; also the jurisdiction of

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

the state court to determine the authority of such banks
in proceedings akin to quo warranto. The case is stated in
the opinion.
Mr. W. C. Elliott and Mr. Edward S. Clark, with whom
Mr. H. M. Gillett was on the briefs, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Henry M. Campbell and Mr. John G. Johnson for
defendants in error.
The Solicitor General, with whom Mr. Joseph P. Cotton
a~d Mr. Milton C. Elliott were on the brief, for the United
States, by leave of court.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
We are of opinion that the procedure resorted to was
appropriate and that the state court was competent to
administer relief, but we postpone stating our reasons on
the subject until the merits have been passed upon.
The court below held that an act of Congress conferring
on national banks additional powers was in excess of the
authority of Congress and was hence repugnant to the
Constitution. 192 Michigan, 640. The correctness of
this conclusion is in substance the sole question for decision on the merits.
Although the powers given were new, the principles
involved in the right to confer them were long since considered and defined in adjudged cases. We shall first
consider the leading of such cases, and then, after stating
this case, determine whether they are controlling, causing
the subject not to be open for original, consideration.
In McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, the bank had
been incorporated by Congress with powers to transact
business of both a governmental and of a private character. The question which was decided was the authority
of Congress to grant such charter. Without undertaking

FIRST NATIONAL BANK v. UNION TRUST CO.
244 U. S.

419

Opinion of the Court.

to restate the opinion of Mr. Chief Justice Marshall, it
suffices for the purpose of the matter now before us to say
that it was held that although Congress was not expressly
given the power to confer the charter, authority to do so
was to be implied as appropriate to carry out the powers
expressly given. In reaching this conclusion it was further decided that to recognize the existence of the implied
power was not at all in conflict with Article I, §.8, clause 18,
of the Constitution, providing that Congress should have
power "To make all laws which shall be necessary and
proper for carrying into execution the foregoing powers,"
since that provision did not confine the implied authority
to things which were indispensably necessary, but on the
contrary gave legislative power to adopt every appropriate means to give effect to the powers expressly given.
In terms it was pointed out that this broad authority was
not stereotyped as of any particular time but endured,
thus furnishing a perpetual and living sanction to he
legislative authority within the limits of a just discretion
enabling it to take into consideration the changing wants
and demands of society and to adopt provisions' appropriate to meet every situation which it was deemed required to be provided for. In fact the rulings which we
have stated were all summed up in the following passage
which ever since has been one of the principal tests by
which to determine the scope of the implied power of
Congress over subjects committed to its legislative au:
thority:
"We admit, as all must admit, that the powers of the
government are limited, and that its limits re not to be
transcended. But we think the sound construction of the
constitution must allow to the national legislature that
discretion, with respect to the means by which the powers
it confers are to be carried into execution, which will
enable that body to perform the high duties assigned to
it, in the manner most beneficial to the people. Let the

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

end be legitimate, let it be within the scope of the constitution, and all: means which are appropriate, which are
plainly adpated to that end, which are not prohibited,
but consist with the letter and spirit of the constitution,
are constitutional."- p. 421.
In Osborn v.'Bank, 9 Wheat. 738, where substantially
the subject was presented in the same form in which it
had been passed upon in McCulloch v. Maryland, yielding
to the request of counsel, the whole subject was reexamined and the previous doctrines restated and upheld.
Considering more fully, however, the question.of the possession by the c poration of private powers associated
with its public authority and meeting the contention that
the two were separable and the one, the public power,
should be treated as within and the other, the private,
as without the implied power of Congress, it was expressly
held that the authority of Congress was to be ascertained
by considering the bank as an entity possessing the rights
and powers conferred upon it and that the lawful power
to create the bank and give it the attributes which were
deemed essential could not be rendered unavailing by detaching particular powers and considering them isolatedly
and thus destroy the efficacy of the bank as a national instrument. The ruling in effect was that although a particular character of business might not be when isolatedly
considered within the implied power of Congress, if such
business was appropriate or relevant to the banking
business 'the implied power was to be tested by the right
to create the bank and the authority to attach to it that
which was relevant in the judgment of Congress to make
the business of the bank successful. It was said: "Congress was of opinion, that these faculties were necessary,
to enable the bank to perform the services which are exacted from it, and for which it was created. This was
certainly a question proper for the consideration of the
national legislature.". p. 864.

FIRST NATIONAL BANK v. UNION TRUST CO. 421
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

As the doctrines thus announced have been reiterated
in a multitude of judicial decisions and have been undeviatingly applied in legislative, ahAd enforced in administrative action, we come at once to state the case before
us to see whether such doctrines dispose without more as a
mere question of authority of the subject under consideration.
Section 11 (k) of the Act of Congress approved December 23, 1913, establishing the Federal Reserve Board
(38 Stat. 251, 262, c. 6), gives to that board authority
"To grant by special permit to national banks applying
therefor, when not in contravention of State or local law,
the right to act as trustee, executor, administrator, or
registrar of stocks and bons under such rules and regulations as the said board may prescribe."
The First National Bank of Bay City having obtained
the certificate required began the exercise of the powers
stated. Thereupon certain trust companies which under
the laws of Michigan had the authority to do the same
character of business petitioned the Attorney General of
the State to test the right of the national bank to use the
functions on the ground that its doing so was contrary
to the laws of the State of Michigan and that' the action
of the Federal Reserve Board purporting to give authority
was in contravention of the Constitution of the United
States. The Attorney General then, on the relation of the
trust companies, commenced in the Supreme Court of the
State a proceeding in the nature of quo warranto to test
the right of the corporation to exercise the functions.
The bank in defense fully stated its federal charter, the
rights given by the act of Congress and the action of the
Federal Rese-ve Board taken thereunder. The Attorney
General demurred to this defence, first, because Congress
had no power to confer the authority which was called
in question; second, because if it had the power, it was
without right to delegate to the Reserve Board the deter-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

mination of when it should be used; and third, because
the exercise of the powers was in contravention of the
laws and authority of the State and the Reserve Board
therefore under the act had no power to grant the certificate.
The case was heard by the full court. In an opinion of
one judge which, it would seem, was written before the
opinion of the court was prepared, it was elaborately
reasoned that the exercise by a national bank of the functions enumerated in the section of the act of Congress
under consideration would be contrary. to the laws of the
State and therefore the Reserve Board under the terms of
the act of Congress had no power to authorize their exertion. The opinion of the court, however, fully examining
the grounds thus stated and disagreeing with them, expressly decided that corporations were authorized by the
state law to perform the functions in question and that,
the mere fact that national banks were federal corporations
did not render them unfit to assume and perform such
duties under the state law because the mere difference
existing between th6 general administrative rules governing national banks and state corporations afforded no
ground for saying that it would be contrary to state law
for national banks to exert the powers under consideration.
The authority conferred by the act of Congress and the
rights arising from the certificate from such point of view
were therefore upheld. Looking at the subject, however,
from a consideration of the legislative power of Congress
in the light of the decisions in McCulloch v. Maryland
and Osbornv. Bank and recognizing that it had been settled
beyond dispute that Congress had power to organize
banks and endow them with functions both of a public
and private character, and in the assumed further light
of the rule that every reasonable intendment must be
indulged in in favor of the constitutionality of a legislative
power exercised, it was yet decided that Congress had no

FIRST NATIONAL BANK v. UNION TRUST CO.
244 U. S.

423

Opinion of the Court.

authority to confer the powers embraced in the section
of .the act under consideration and hence that the section
was void. The court following its reference to McCulloch
v. Maryland and Osborn v. Bank and to passages in the
opinions in those cases upholding the rightful possession
by the bank of both public functions and private banking
attributes, stated the grounds which led it to conclude
that the rulings in the decided cases were distinguishable
and therefore not controlling. It said:
"But in the reasoning of the judges, in the opinions to
which I have referred, I find, I think, a conclusive argument supporting the proposition that congress has exceeded its constitutional powers in granting to banks the
right to act as trustees, executors and administrators.
If for mere profit it can clothe this agency with the powers
enumerated, it can give it the rights of a trading corporation, or a transportation company, or both. There is, as
Judge Marshall points out, a natural connection between
the business of banking and the carrying on of federal
fiscal operations. There is none, apparently, between such
operations and the business of settling estates, or acting
as the trustee of bondholders. This being so, there is in
the legislation a direct invasion of the sovereignty of the
State which controls not only the devolution of estates of
deceased persons and the conducting of private business
within the State, but as well the creation of corporations
and the qualifications and duties of such as may engage
in the business of acting as trustees, executors and administrators. Such an invasion I think the court may
declare and may prevent by its order operating upon the
offending agency."
But we are of opinion that the doctrine thus announced
not only was wholly inadequate to distinguish the case
before us from the rulings in McCulloch v. Maryland and
Osborn v. Bank, but on the contrary directly conflicted
with what was decided in those cases, that is to say, dis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

regarded their authority so as to cause it to be our duty
to reverse for the following reasons:
1. Because the opinion of the court instead of testing
the existence of the implied power to grant the particular
functions in question by considering the bank as created
by Congress as an entity with all the functions and attributes conferred upon it, rested the determination as to
such power upon a separation of the particular functions
from the other attributes and functions of the bank and
ascertained the existence of the implied authority to
confer them by considering them, as segregated, that is,
by disregarding their relation to the bank as component
parts of its operations,-a doctrine which, as we have
seen, was in the most express terms held to be unsound
in both of the cases.
2. Because while in the premise to the reasoning the
right of Congress was fully recognized to exercise its
legislative judgment as to the necessity for creating the
bank including the scope and character of the public and
private powers which should be given to it, in application the discretion of Congress was disregarded or set
aside by exercising judicial discretion for the purpose of
determining whether it was relevant or appropriate to
give the. bank the particular functions in question.
3. Because even under this mistaken view the conclusion that there was no ground for implying the power in
Cohgress was erroneous because it was based on a mistaken standard, since for the purpose of testing how far
the functions in question which were conferred by the
act of Congress on the bank were relevant to its business
or had any relation to discrimination by state legislation
against banks created by Congress it considered not the
actual situation, that is, the condition of the state legislation, but an imaginary or non-existing condition, that is,
the assumption that so far as the state power was concerned the- particular functions were in the State enjoyed

FIRST NATIONAL BANK v. UNION TRUST CO.
244 U. S.

425

Opinion of the Court.

only by individuals or corporations not coming at all,
actually or potentially, in competition with national banks.
And the far-reaching effect of this error becomes manifest
when it is borne in mind that plainly the particular functions enumerated in the statute were conferred upon national banks because of the fact ,that they were enjoyed
as the result of state legislation by state corporations,
rivals in a greater or less degree of national banks.
.4. In view of the express ruling that the enjoyment of
the powers in question by the national bank would not
be in contravention of the state law, it follows that the
reference of the court below to the state authority over
the particular subjects which the statute deals with must
have proceeded upon thQ erroneous assumption that because a particular function was subject to be regulated
by the state law, therefore Congress was without power to
give a national bank the right to carry on such functions.
But if this be what the statement signifies, the conflict between it and the rule settled in McCulloch v. Marylandand
Osborn v. Bank, is manifest. What those cases established
was that although a business was of a private nature and
subject to state regulation, if it was of such a character as
to cause it to be incidental to the successful discharge by a
bank chartered by Congress of its public functions,. it was
competent for Congress to give the bank the power to
exercise such private business in co6peration with or as
part of its public authority. Manifestly this excluded
the power of the State in such case, although it might
possess in a general sense authority to regulate such busiiness, to use that authority to prohibit such business from
being united by Congress with the banking function, since
to do so would be but the exertion of state authority to
prohibit Congress from exerting a power which under the
Constitution it had a right to ex~rcise. From this it must
also follow that even although a business be of such a character that it is not inherently considered susceptible of

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.

Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

being included by Congress in the powers conferred on
national banks, that rule would cease to apply if by state
law state banking corporations, trust companies, or others
which by reason of their business are rivals or quasi-rivals
of national banks are permitted to carry on such business.
This must be since the State may not by legislation create
a condition as to a particular business which would bring
about actual or potential competition with the business
of national banks and at the same time deny the power
of Congress to meet such created condition by legislation
appropriate to avoid the injury which otherwise would be
suffered by the national agency. Of course as the general
subject of regulating the chbracter of business just referred
to is peculiarly within state administrative control, state
regulations for the conduct of such business, if not discriminatory or so unreasonable as to justify the conclusion
that they necessarily would so operate, would be controlling upon banks chartered by Congress when they
came in virtue of authority conferred upon them by Congress to exert such particular powers. And these considerations clearly were in the legislative mind when it
enacted the statute in question. This result would seem
to be plain when it is observed (a) that the statute authorizes the exertion of the particular functions by national
banks when not in contravention of the state law, that is,
where the right to perform them is expressly given by the
state law or what is equivalent is deducible from the state
law because that law-has given the functions to state banks
or corporations whose business in a greater or less degree
rivals that of national banks, thus engendering from the
state law itself an implication of authority in Congress to
do as to national banks that which the state law has done
as to other corporations; and (b) that the statute subjects
the right to exert the particular functions which it confers
on national banks to the administrative authority of the
Reserve Board, giving besides to that Board power to

1 IRST NATIONAL BANK v. UNION TRUST CO.
244 U. S.

427

Opinion of the Court.

adopt rules regulating the exercise of the functions conferred, thus affording the means of co6rdinating the functions when permitted to be discharged, by national banks
with the reasonable and non-discriminating provisions of
state law regulating their exercise as to state corporations,
-the whole to the end that harmony and the concordant
exercise of the national and state power might result.
Before passing to the question of procedure we think
it necessary to do no more than say that a contention
which was pressed in argument and which it may be was
indirectly referred to in the opinion of the court below
that the authority given by the section to the Reserve
Board was void because conferring legislative power on
that board, is so plainly adversely disposed of by many
previous adjudications as to cause it to be necessary only
to refer to them. Field v. Clark, 143 U. S. 649; Buttfield
v. Stranahan,192-U. S. 470; United States v. Grimaud, 220
U. S. 506; Monongahela Bridge Company v. United States,
216 U. S. 177; Intermountain Rate Cases, 234 U. S. 476.
The question of the competency of the procedure and
the right to administer the remedy sought, then- remains.
It involves a challenge of the right of the State Attorney
General to resort in a state court to proceedings in the
nature of quo warranto to test the power of the corporation
to exert the particular functions given by the act of Congress because they were inherently federal in character,
enjoyed by a federal corporation and susceptible only of
being directly tested in a federal court. Support for the
challenge in argument is rested upon Ableman v. Booth,
21 How. 506; Tarble's Case, 13 Wall. 397; Van Reed v.
People's National Bank, 198 U. S. 554, 557; State ex rel.
Wilcox v. Curtis, 35 Connecticut, 374. But without inquiring into the merits of the doctrine upon which the
proposition rests we think when the contention is tested
by a consideration of the subject-matter of this particular
controversy it cannot be sustained. In other words, we

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.

Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

are of opinion that as the particular functions in question
by the express terms of the act of Congress were given
only "when not in contravention of State or local law,"
the state court was, if not expressly, at least impliedly
authorized by Congress to consider and pass upon the
question whether the particular power was or was not in
contravention of the state law, and we place our conclusion on that ground. We find no ambiguity in the text,
but if it be that ambiguity is latent in the provision, a
consideration of its purpose would dispel doubt especially
in view of the interpretation which we have given the
statute and the contrast between the clause governing
the subject by the state law and the provision conferring
administrative power on the Reserve Board. The nature
of the subject dealt with'adds cogency to this view since
that subject involves the action of state courts of probate
in a universal sense, implying from its very nature the
duty of such courts to pass upon the question and the
power of the court below within the limits of state jurisdiction to settle so far as the State was concerned the question for all such courts by one suit, thus avoiding the confusion which might arise in the entire system of state
probate proceedings and the very serious injury to many
classes of society which also might be occasioned. And
our conclusion on this subject is fortified by the terms of
§ 57, c. 106, 13 Stat. 116, making controversies concerning
national banks cognizable in state courts because of their
intimate relation to many state laws and regulations,
although without the grant of the act of Congress such
controversies would have been federal in character.
As it follows from what we have said that the court
below erred in declaring the section of the act of Congress
to be unconstitutional, the judgment must be reversed
and the case remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
And it is so ordered.

FIRST NATIONAL BANK v. UNION TRUST CO.
244 U. S.

429

VAN DEVAN'ER, J., dissenting.

MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER,

dissenting.

I dissent from the conclusion'that this proceeding could
be brought and maintained in the state court. It is an
information in the nature of a quo warranto against a
federal corporation, a national bank. It calls in question
the bank's right to exercise a privilege claimed under an
act of Congress, the privilege, under the terms of the act,
being conferred only when "not in contravention of State
or local law." The information was brought by the
Attorney General of the State in his own name, and charges
that the bank's exercise of the privilege is" in contempt of
the people of the State," by which it is meant, as the record
discloses, first, that the exercise of the privilege by the
bank is in contravention of the law of the State, and,
second, that the act of Congress under which the privilege
is claimed transcends the power of Congress and is void.
The state court dealt with both grounds. The first was
overruled and the second sustained. The judgment rendered enjoins and excludes the bank from exercising the
privilege.
The writ of quo warranto was a prerogative writ and the
modern proceeding by information is not different in that
respect. When it is brought to exclude the exercise of a
franchise, privilege or power claimed under the United
States it can only be brought in the name of the United
States and by its representative, or in such other mode
as it may have sanctioned. Wallace v. Anderson, 5 Wheat.
291; Territory v. Lockwood, 3 Wall. 236; Newman v. Friz-

zell, 238 U. S. 537. As is said in the Lockwood Case, "the
right to institute such proceedings is inherently in the
Government of the nation." This is particularly true
of national banks, for they not only derive all their powers
from the United States, but are instrumentalities created
by it for a public purpose, and. "are not to be interfered
with by state legislative or judicial action, except so far

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
VAN DEVANTER,

J., dissenting.

244 U. S.

as the law making power of the Government may permit."
Davis v. Elmira Savings Bank, 161 U. §. 275, 283; Van
Reed v. People's National Bank, 198 U. S. 554, 557. Indeed, they are upon much the same plane as are officers
of the United States, because their conduct can only be
controlled by the power that created them. McClung v.
Silliman, 6 Wheat. 598, 605. If it were otherwise the
supremacy of the United States and of its Constitution and
laws would be seriously imperiled. Ableman v. Booth, 21How. 506; Tarble's Case, 13 Wall. 397; Tennessee v.
Davis, 100 U. S. 257; State ex rel. Wilcox v. Curtis, 35
Conn. 374.
Thus much, as I understand it, is conceded in this court's
opinion, the conclusion that the state court could entertain
the information and proceed to judgment thereon, as was
done, being rested upon an implied authorization by
Congress. This authorization is thought to be found in
the provision stating that the privilege claimed is given
only "when not in contravention of State or local law"
and in the provision in the Act of June 3, 1864, c. 106,
§ 57, 13 Stat. 116, now in Rev. Stats., § 5198, which makes
suits against national banks cognizable in certain state
courts. I do not find any such authorization in either
provision.
The first does no more than to withhold the privilege in
question from national banks located in States whose laws
are opposed to or not in harmony with the possession and
exercise of such a privilege on the part of the banks. It
says nothing about judicial proceedings-nothing about
who shall bring them or where they shall be brought.
There is in it no suggestion that quo warranto proceedings
were in the mind of Congress. Had there been a purpose
to do anything so unusual as to authorize a state officer to
institute and conduct such a proceeding in a state court
against a federal corporation, is it not reasonable to believe
that Congress would have given expression to that pur-

FIRST NATIONAL BANK v. UNION TRUST CO.
244 U. S.

431

VAN DEVANTER, J., dissenting.

pose? As before indicated, it said nothing upon the
point,-just as it would have done had no such purpose
been in mind. But if the words "when not in contravention of State or local law" could be regarded as giving
any warrant for a quo warranto proceeding by a state
officer in a state court, I should say they would do no
more than to permit such a proceeding to determine
whether the privilege was in contravention of the state
law. There is nothing in them which points even remotely to a purpose to sanction a proceeding to determine
the power of Congress under the Constitution to clothe
a national bank with the privilege indicated. That would
be without any precedent in the legislation relating to
federal corporations, and I submit that it is most improbable that Congress either did or would entertain
such a purpose.
The provision cited from the Act of 1864 has been in the
statutes for fifty-three years and no one seems ever to
have thought until now that it was intended to authorize
a proceeding such as this against a national bank. I
think its words do not fairly lend themselves to that purpose. They have hitherto been regarded, and in practice treated, as referring to ordinary suits such as may be
conveniently prosecuted against a bank in its home town
and county. Besides, the terms of the provision show
that it can have no application here. After providing for
suing a national bank in the federal-or territorial court of
the district in which it is established, the provision adds,
"or in any state, county, or municipal court in the county
or city in which said association is located." This bank,
as the record discloses, is located in Bay City, Bay County.
The proceeding was begun and had in the Supreme Court
of the State at the capital, which is Lansing, Ingham
County. Therefore the provision can give no support to
the proceeding.
For these reasons I think the judgment should be re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

244 U. S.

versed with a direction to dismiss the information for
want of jurisdiction.
MR. JUSTICE DAY authorizes me to say that he concurs
in this dissent.

VALDEZ v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
No. 361. Argued April 23, 24, .1917.-Decided June 11, 1917.
The testimony of an accomplice who turns State's evidence in a murder
case is not to be discarded because of his base character, or his oscillating retraction and reiteration of the charge, but must be ac-,
corded such weight as is due it when judged by confirming or opposing
circumstances, by his character and the influences which invested
him.
In this case the court, considering evidence on which was based a conviction of murder, concurred in by the court of first instance and the
Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands, holds that the doubts
aroused by the character and vacillation of the government's chief
witness (who testified that he was hired by the defendant and did
the killing under his direction), are not such as to justify a reversal
in view of the corroborating evidence, including evidence of a motive
on the part of the defendant, and the absence of any doubt that
murder was actually done.
A view of the scene of the murder by the trial judge does not deprive
the accused of his constitutional right, carried to him by the Philippine Code, to "meet the witnesses face to face," where the view
is conducted in the presence and with the consent of his counsel,
and no testimony is taken, and no improper remarks are addressed
to the judge.
The right of the accused to be present during the inspection may be
waived by his counsel; but, even when the right is not waived, his
absence will not warrant a reversal if no prejudice resulted.
30 Phil. Rep. 293, affirmed.

