OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

244 U. S.

Of course, we attribute no significance to the fact that
plaintiff had been engaged in inspecting interstate cars
before he was called aside by the occurrence of the collision.
Illinois Central R. R. Co. v. Behrens, 233 U. S. 473, 478;
Erie R. R. Co. v. Welsh, 242 U. S. 303, 306.

It is contended that there was no sufficient ground for
attributing negligence to defendant because of the presence
of large clinkers in the path along which plaintiff, in the
course of his duty, was called upon to pass. This is no
more than a question of fact, without exceptional features,
and we content ourselves with announcing the conclusion
that we see no reason for disturbing the result reached by
two state courts.

Great Northern Ry. Co. v. Knapp, 240

U. S. 464, 466.
Judgment affirmed.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE

dissents.

PUGET SOUND TRACTION, LIGHT & POWER
COMPANY v. REYNOLDS ET AL., CONSTITUTING THE PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION OF
THE STATE OF WASHINGTON, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.

No. 220. Submitted April 25, 1917.-Decided June 11, 1917.
City ordinances granting street railway franchises in the State of
Washington, with the right at any and all times to make reasonable
rules and regulations for the management and operation of the railway lines thereby authorized, contained a proviso that such rules
and regulations should not conflict with the laws of the State. Held:
(1) That the proviso, fairly construed, meant the laws as they should
from time to time exist. (2) That the act establishing the Public

PUGET SOUND TRACTION CO. v. REYNOLDS.
244 U. S.

575

Opinion of the Court.

Service Commission of Washington (Laws 1911, c. 117), and orders
of the commission requiring the appellant company to run through
cars beyond the limits of the lines covered by such franchises over
other parts of its system, were within the description of the proviso,
and so did not impair its contract rights (if such they were) to make
such rules and regulations.
A municipality cannot, by contract 'with a street railway company,
foreclose the exercise of the police power of the State in respect of
the regulation of rates of fare and transfer privileges, unless clearly
authorized to do so by the supreme legislative power. Detroit United
Railway v. Michigan, 242 U. S. 238, distinguished.
Under the Constitution of Washington, which anitedated the ordinances
here in question, contractual provisions in franchises conferred by
municipal corporations without express legislative authority are
subject to be set aside by the legislature; and the Public Utilities
Act, supra,supersedes any conflicting ordinance or charter provision
of a city.
Where several street railway lines, built under distinct franchises, are
owned and operated as one system, a public regulation concerning
car service and fares will not be adjudged confiscatory because of its
financial results to the line immediately affected, if the system as a
whole remains profitable.
Where several street railway lines, built under distinct franchises, are
owned and operated as one system, it is clearly within the bounds
of reasonable regulation to establish through service between them,
for a single fare.
223 Fed. Rep. 371, affirmed.
THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. James B. Howe and Mr. Hugh A. Tait for appellant.

Mr. W. V. Tanner, Attorney General of the State of
Washington, Mr. Scott Z. Hendersonand Mr. L. L. Thompson, Assistant Attorneys General. of the State of Wash-

ington, and Mr. C. E. Arney for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.

Appellant (plaintiff below) owns and operates a street

railway system in the City of Seattle, Washington,

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

aggregating about 200 miles, as assignee of numerous
franchises granted to its predecessors in interest by the
cities of Seattle, West Seattle, and Ballard, and by King
County. It filed its bill in the District Court to obtain
relief from the operation and effect of an order made by
the Public Service Commission of the State on March 24,
1915, bringing in as defendants the members of the commission and the Attorney General of the State. Plaintiff
being a corporation of the State of Massachusetts, and
defendants citizens of the State of Washington, the jurisdiction was invoked both upon the ground of diversity
of citizenship and upon the ground that the order complained of was alleged to impair the obligation of contracts
and deprive plaintiff of its property without due process
of law, in violation of the Constitution of the United
States. The order was made as the result of an investigation of which plaintiff had notice, and it contains the
following provisions:
"(1) That the defendant company [plaintiff] continue
the operation of through service on the Ballard Beach
Line.
"(2) That the Alki Point and Fauntleroy Park lines
be operated through the City of Seattle on First or Second
Avenue as far north at least as Virginia Street.
"(3) That the defendant company furnish sufficient
cars to provide seats for substantially all persons using
-the Alki Point and Fauntleroy Park lines."
The ihird paragraph was subject to a qualification; but
since the District Court granted an injunction against this
part of the order, and defendants have not appealed, the
qualifying clause need not be set forth and we may confine
our attention to the requirements of paragraphs 1 and 2.
As to these, the District Court, three judges sitting, denied
an -application for a temporary injunction (223 Fed. Rep.
371), and plaintiff brings the case here by direct appeal
under ยง 238, Jud. Code.

PUGET SOUND TRACTION CO. v. REYNOLDS.
244 U. S.

577

Opinion of the Court.

In order to understand the effect of the first two paragraphs and the grounds upon which they are attacked,
it should be stated that the Ballard Beach line was constructed and is operated under a franchise ordinance of
the City of Ballard, which city afterwards became and
now is a part of the City of Seattle. The line extends from
Ballard Beach to the intersection of West 59th Street and
24th Avenue, at which point it connects with lines of
plaintiff that were constructed under other franchises.
For some time prior to and at the date of the making of
the order in question, plaintiff had been and was operating
through cars over the Ballard Beach line and the connecting lines to and into the business section of Seattle, instead of physically transferring passengers from car to
car at West 59th Street and 24th Avenue. Because, as
is said, of the expense attached to the operation of through
cars, plaintiff had given notice that it would discontinue
sffch operation oand require the transfer of passengers at
the point mentioned. The effect of the order was to require plaintiff to continue the through service.
The Alki Point and Fauntleroy Park lines, each of them
8 or 9 miles in length, were constructed under separate
franchises granted to predecessors in interest of plaintiff
by the City of Seattle. They have their northern termini
at or about Yessler Way, but for two or three years prior
to the date of the order cars on these lines, instead of
stopping on their north-bound trips at that point, continued about a mile farther north along First or Second
Avenue to Virginia Street, in the business district of the
city. Shortly before the promulgation of the order, this
through service was discontinued, and north- and southbound passengers required to transfer at Yessler Way.
The effect of the order was to compel the reinstatement
of the through service.
The ordinances under which these three lines were constructed provide in substance that the company "shall

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

have the right at any and all times to make reasonable
rules and regulations for the management and operation
of the railway lines herein provided for; provided, that
such rules and regulations shall not 4'onflict with the laws
of the State of Washington and the charter and ordinances
of the city." Each franchise provides also that the company shall have the right to charge a passenger fare for one
continuous passage not exceeding five cents, even though
a transfer be necessary, but shall sell commutation tickets
entitling the purchaser to 25 rides for one dollar, such
tickets however, not to be transferable and not to entitle
the owner to the transfer privilege.
(1) One ground of complaint respecting the order of
the commission is that, in requiring passengers to be
carried beyond the limits of a particular franchise, it in
effect confers the transfer privilege upon holders of
commutation or "four-cent" tickets. The order says
nothing about rates of fare; but we will assume, as the
District Court assumed, that it has the effect attributed
to it in this respect.
It'is urged that the order impairs the obligation of the
cohtracts contained in the franchise ordinances, both in
regard to transfers and in, regard to plaintiff's right to
make rules for the management and operation of its lines.
As to the latter point, the proviso that the rules "shall
not conflict with the laws of the State," etc., by fair construction, means the laws as they shall from time to time
exist. The act establishing the Public Service Commission (Laws, 1911, c.117) and orders made by that commission are within the description; hence, the contract, if
it be a contract, was subject to and is not impaired by the
order in question.
Assuming (what is not clear) that the provision in the
franchise ordinances respecting the rates of fare and the
transfer privilege are contractual in form, still it is well
settled that a municipality cannot, by a contract of this

PUGET SOUND TRACTION CO. v. REYNOLDS. 579
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

nature, foreclose the exercise of the police power of the
State unless clearly authorized to do so by the supreme
legislative power. The Constitution of Washington, Art.
XII, ยง 18, requires the legislature to pass laws establishing
reasonable maximum rates of charges for the transportation of passengers and freight, and to correct abuses and
prevent discrimination in rates by railroads and other
common carriers, and provides that "A railroad and
transportation commission may be established, and its
powers and duties fully defined by law." By Art. XI-,
ยง 10, any city containing a population of twenty thousand
inhabitants or more is permitted to frame a charter for
its own government "consistent with and subject to the
constitution and laws of this state." This constitution
was adopted in 1889, long previous to the date of the
earliest of plaintiff's franchise ordinances. The Supreme
Court of Washington has held that the provisions of
municipal charters are subject to the legislative authority
of the State; that the Public Utilities Act superseded any
conflicting ordinance or charter provision of any city;
and that contractual provisions in franchises conferred by
municipal corporations without express legislative authority are subject to be set aside by the exercise of the sovereign power of the State. Eing v. Seattle, 55 Washington, 229; State ex rel. Webster v. Superior Court, 67 Washington, 37, 43-50.
The present case is very clearly distinguishable from
Detroit United Railway v. Michigan, 242 U. S. 238, 248,
where the state legislature had expressly provided that
the municipal corporation might make a binding agreement with a street railway respecting the rates of fare.
. (2) It is insisted that neither the Alki nor the
Fauntleroy Park line is earning sufficient to pay its operating
cost, or ever can do so under a fare limited to five cents,
and that for this reason an order requiring these lines to
carry passengers beyond the termini fixed in their fran-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

chises upon four-cent tickets, and to give them the more
costly through service by means of a single car, is necessarily a taking of plaintiff's property without compensation, and hence without due process of law within the
meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment. A similar
point was made in the bill with respect to the Ballard
Beach line, but is not seriously pressed here. As to the
other two lines, there seems to be no question that since
they run for a considerable distance over the tide flats,
receiving and discharging but few passengers en route,
so that a majority of the passengers are carried distances
of five or six miles, these lines, separately considered,
never have paid operating expenses, and probably never
will.
But we cannot accede to the suggestion that the question whether the commission's order is confiscatory or
otherwise arbitrary within the inhibition of the Fourteenth
Amendment is to be determined with reference alone to the
Alki, the Fauntleroy, or the Ballard Beach lines. These
are and long have been operated by plaintiff as parts of a
system comprising 'two hundred miles of tracks. The
commission found that the net earnings of the system for
the year ending February 28, 1915, not including depreciation and taxes, were upwards of $1,600,000; that
the company had refused to produce the valuations of its
property made by experts, and had failed to show that
there was not sufficient return from its property to pay
operating expenses, taxes, and depreciation, and leave a
balance. And from the evidence introduced the comnission found the fact to be that, allowing for the services
required by its order, the company would have net returns
over and above operating expenses, taxes, and depreciation. It was not and is not contended that the system
earnings are unremunerative.
Plaintiff relies upon Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. North
Dakota, 236 U. S. 585, 604, where this court held that a

PUGET SOUND TRACTION CO. v.. REYNOLDS.
244 U. S.

581

Opinion of the Court.

statute which segregated a single commodity, and imposed upon it a rate that would compel the carrier to
transport it for less than the proper cost of transportation,
was in excess of the power of the .State. In our opinion,
that decision is inapplicable, the present case being controlled rather by St. Louis & San FranciscoRy. Co.v. Gill,
156 U. S. 649, 665, where the State of Arkansas had prescribed a maximum rate of three cents per mile for each
passenger, uhder a penalty payable to the passenger from
whom an overcharge was exacted, and in an action to
recover such a penalty the company d6fended on the
ground that the portion of, its road over which plaintiff
was carried was highly expensive to construct and maintain, and that the cost of maintaining it and transporting
passengers over it exceeded the maximum rate fixed by
law. But this court held. "that the correct test was as to
the effect of the act on the defendant's entire line, and
not upon that part which was formerly a part of one of
the consolidating roads; that the:company cannot claim
the right to earn a net profit, from every mile, section, or
other part into which the road might be divided, nor
attack as unjust a regulation which fixed a rate at which
some such part would be unremunerative; . . . and,
finally, that to the extent that the question of injustice
is to be determined by the effects, of the, act upon the
earnings of the company, the earnings of the entire line
must be estimated as against all its legitimate expenses
under the operation of the act within the limits of the
State of Arkansas."
(3) Plaintiff's brief contains some general attacks upon
the effect of the commission's order in requiring plaintiff
to carry passengers over portions of "separate and distinct franchise routes" upon payment of a single fare.
This criticism is not well founded. Even were the several
portions of its lines separately owned, they being operated
practically as a single system, it would be within the

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

244 U. S.

bounds of reasonable regulation to establish through service and a joint rate. Wisconsin, Minnesota & Pacific
R. R. Co. v. Jacobson, 179 U. S. 287, 296, 301; Michigan
Central R. R. Co. v. Michigan Railroad Commission, 236
U. S. 615, 629.
The decree of the District Court, so far as appealed
from, is
Affirmed.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA dissent
because they are of the opinion that this case as a matter
of authority is controlled by Detroit United Railway v.
Michigan, 242 U. S. 238, and that as a matter of original
consideration the assailed legislation has impaired the
obligation of a contract in violation of the Constitution
of the United States and was repugnant to the Constitution because wanting in due process.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

also dissents.

LANHAM, ADMINISTRATOR OF LANHAM, ET AL.
v. McKEEL.
ERROR TO TIIE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OKLAHOMA.
No. 245. Submitted April 30, 1917.--Decided June 11, 1917.
An order of the Secretary of the Interior, approving an Indian agent's
recommendation that restrictions on alienation be removed from an
k dian's allotment, was made on March 26, "to be effective thirty
days from date." Held that the approval became effective on tne
thirtieth day after its date, i. e., on April 25th, and enabled the
allottee to make a valid conveyance on that day.

47 Oklahoma, 348, affirmed.

