OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

244 U. S.

settled to need discussion. The rules and regulations,
duly published and filed, which in any wise affect the rates
or the value of the service to be rendered are controlling
upon both parties to the shipping contract. (Act of
June 29, 1906, 34 Stat. 586, ยง2.) The binding force of
these contracts and regulations has been affirmed in many
cases; among them, Kansas City Southern Ry. Co. v. Carl,
227 U. S. 639, 652; Boston & Maine Railroad v. Hooker,
233 U. S.97, 112; Louisville & Nashville R.R.Co. v. Maxwell, 237 U. S.94, 98; Great Northern Ry. Co. v. O'Connor,
232 U. S.508, 515; Pierce Co. v. Wells, Fargo & Co., 236
U. S.278, 285; Southern Railway Co. v. Prescott, 240 U. S.
632, 638; Cincinnati, New Orleans & Texas Pacific Ry.
Co. v. Rankin, 241 U. S.319; Norfolk Southern R. R. Co.
v. Chatman, ante, 276.
It follows that the judgment of the Court of Appeals of
Crawford County must be reversed and the cause remanded to that court for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

ATCHISON, TOPEKA & SANTA FE RAILWAY COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 267. Argued May 4, 1917.-Decided June 4, 1917.
The Hours of Service Act of March 4, 1907, 34 Stat. 1415, is remedial,
passed to protect both public and employees from the dangers
arising from overwork in railway employment, and should be construed, in effectuation of this purpose, as requiring the carrier to do
all reasonably within its power to confine the houts of service within
the limits stated.

ATCHISON, T. & S. F. RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 337
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

It was the intention of the proviso in ยง 3, not to relieve the carrier-from
a diligent effort to avoid exceeding the limits of service which the
act specifies, but only to afford relief in cases where service beyond
those limits is necessarily entailed by the causes mentioned in the
proviso.
If, as the result of delay due to unavoidable accident, a train crew will
not be able to take the train to the terminal of their normal run
without serving beyond the time limit prescribed by the act, it becomes the carrier's duty to prevent such excessive service by substituting a fresh crew whenever, in the exercise of all reasonable
diligence, it is able to do so.
220 Fed. Rep. 748, affirmed.

THE case. is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Paul Burks, with whom Mr. Robert Dunlap, Mr. E.
W. Camp and Mr. Gdrdiner Lathrop were on the brief, -for
plaintiff in error.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Underwood, with whom
Mr. Alex Koplin was on the brief, for the United States.
MR.JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
The United States brought an action in the District
Court of the United States for the Southern District of
California, Southern Division, against the Atchison,
Topeka & Santa Fe Railway Company, to recover the
sum of $1500 for three alleged violations of the Hours of
Service Act of March 4, 1907, 34 Stat. 1415, 1416, the
relevant parts of which are as follows:
"Sec. 2. That it shall be unlawful for any common carrier, its officers or agents, subject to this Act to require or
permit any employee subject to this Act to be or remain
on duty for a longer period than sixteen consecutive hours,
and whenever any such employee of such common carrier shall have been continuously on duty for sixteen hours
he shall be relieved and not required or permitted again
to go on duty until he his had at least ten consecutive

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

hours off duty; and no such employee who has been on
duty sixteen hours in the aggregate in any twenty-fourhour period shall be required or permitted to continue or
again go on duty without having had at least eight consecutive hours off duty: . . .
"Sec. 3. . . . Provided, That the provisions of this
Act shall not apply in any case of casualty or unavoidable
accident or the act of God; nor where the delay was the
result of a cause not known to the carrier or its officer
or agent in charge of such employee at the time said employee left a terminal, and which could not have been
foreseen.
From the stipulated facts the following appears: That
the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway Company is
a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws
of Kansas, and was at the times mentioned in the complaint a common carrier engaged in interstate commerce
by rail. That at the times mentioned in the petition this
railway company operated a certain interstate passenger
train from Los Angeles, California, to Phoenix, Arizona,
known as train No. 18, and a similar train from Phoenix to
Los Angeles known as train No. 17. That this latter train
customarily, and on the dates in question, moved from
Phoenix to Parker, Arizona, in charge of train and engine
crews, which crews were changed at Parker, where there
was attached to the train an engine in charge of a crew
which ran from Parker to Barstow, California, a distance
of 183.5 miles. That at Parker train No. 17 was taken
in charge of and handled from that point to Los Angeles,
a distance of 335.3 miles, by a passenger train crew,
consisting of a conductor and two brakemen, who were
the employees of the railroad company mentioned in the
complaint.
That the terminals for the passenger train crews engaged in the operation of trains Nos. 17 and 18 are Los
Angeles and Parker. That the employees described in

ATCHISON, T. & S. F. RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
244 U. S.

339

Opinion of the Court.

the complaint resided and had their homes in Los Angeles,
from which point they customarily left for Parker in charge
of train No. 18, which arrived at Parker at or about 1:15
o'clock A. M., whereupon they were relieved until 10:40
o'clock P. M., on the same day. That during the interval
they were permitted to enjoy the accommodations for
rest at Parker, which was their "away-from-hometerminal." That at 10:40 o'clock P. M. they reported for
the return trip to Los Angeles on train No. 17, and customarily reached Los Angeles at or about 10:15 o'clock
A. M. on the next day, from which time until 10:30 o'clock
P. M. on the following day they were not on duty, and
during that time they were permitted to repair to and
remain at their respective homes in Los Angeles, which
was their "home-terminal."
That on October 2nd and 3rd, 1912, passenger train
No. 17 was operated between Parker and Los Angeles
by the employees named in the complaint, and that they
were compelled to be and remain on duty in connection
with the movement of that train from 10:40 o'clock P. M.
on October 2nd, until 8:25 o'clock P. M. on October 3rd,
under the circumstances hereinafter set forth.
That the employees named reported for duty at Parker,
at 10:40 o'clock P. M. on October 2nd, and at 11:10 o'clock
P. M. departed from Parker in charge of train No. 17,
which arrived at Barstow, California, at 7:10 o'clock A. M.
on October 3rd, having been delayed for a period of two
hours and thirty minutes on account of washouts, the
cause of this delay not being known to the defendant, or
to any of its officers or agents in charge of the employees
at the time they left Parker, and incapable of being foreseen. That train No. 17 was scheduled to leave Barstow
at 4:45 o'clock A. M. on October 3rd, but by reason of the
delay in reaching Barstow it actually left that point at
7:45 o'clock A. M., with ample time then remaining to
reach Los Angeles within less than sixteen hours after

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

the conductor and brakemen entered upon their service,
but at 8:30 o'clock and -while the train was being operated
between Barstow and San Bernardino, California, an axle
broke under the tank of the engine, whereby. the movement of the train was necessarily and unavoidably delayed
for a period of six hours and ten minutes, with the result
that instead of reaching San Bernardino at 7:35 o'clock
A. M., according to its usual schedule, or at 10:35 o'clock
A. M., as it would have done but for the delays in reaching
and leaving Barstow, it actually arrived at San Bernardino
at 5:30 o'clock P. M., and that instead of reaching Los
Angeles at 10:15 o'clock A. M., in accordance with its
usual schedule, or at 1:16 o'clock P. M., as it would have
done but for the delays in reaching and leaving Barstow
had there been no further delays, it actually reached Los
Angeles at 8:25 o'clock P. M. on October 3rd, the employees having been on duty for twenty-one hours and
forty-five minutes. That the breaking of the axle whereby
the train was delayed for six hours and ten minutes was
a casualty and an unavoidable accident, and the delay
to the train caused thereby was the result of causes not
known to defendant, or to any of its officers or agents in
charge at the time the employees left Parker, and which
could not have been foreseen.
That train No. 17, after having been delayed in reaching
and leaving Barstow, and after having been delayed six
hours and ten minutes by the broken axle, proceeded to
Los Angeles in charge of the employees who were in charge
when it left Parker, and that in going to Los Angeles the
train and employees passed through the station of San
Bernardino, California, which is a point known and designated as a division terminal, and which was a place appointed and customarily used as a terminal from and to
which crews of certain other passenger and freight trains
of the defendant brought their trains, but which was not
a terminal for train crews in charge of trains Nos. 17 and 18

ATCHISON, T. & S. F. RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
244 U. S.

341

Opinion of the Court.

or of any other trains operating between Parker and Los
Angeles. That at and previous to the time the employees
in charge of train No. 17 had been continuously on duty
for a period of sixteen hours, defendant had in its employ
at Los Angeles and also at San Bernardino passenger,
train crews which were customarily assigned to other
passenger trains, and crews which were subject to call
which were customarily used in operating freight trains,
who were qualified should necessity require to operate
passenger trains between San Bernardino and Los Angeles.
That the employees in charge of train No. 17 could have
been relieved at San Bernardino and the train placed in
charge of one of such other freight or passenger train
crews at a time which would have permitted the employees
in charge of train No. 17, to "deadhead" from San Bernardino to Los Angeles on that train without performing
any service.
That before the delay of six hours and ten minutes which
resulted from the broken axle had expired, and before the
damage which had caused such delay had been repaired,
and before the train left the point where the damage
occurred, it was known to the defendant and its officers
and agents that such employees would have been on duty
in excess of sixteen hours by the time they reached San
Bernardino, but that no effort was made to relieve them
before they had been on duty continuously in excess of
sixteen hours, either previous to or at the time of their
arrival at San Bernardino, or at any time before they
reached Los Angeles.
That it is commonly understood by railroad men with
a knowledge of the practical operation of trains that the
word "terminal" has reference to certain train or trains
or certain crew or crews, and means the beginning or the
end of the employee's run or the point at which in the
regular course of business he would go on duty as a member of a particular crew, or at which in the regular course

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

of business he would cease to be a .member of such crew
of a particular train and be relieved from duty.
Judgment was rendered in the sum of $100 upon each
cause of action against the railroad company. Upon proceedings in error, this judgment was affirmed by the
United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit (220 Fed. Rep. 748), and a writ of certiorari brings
the case here.
It is the contention of the railroad company that the
detention in service beyond the period prescribed by the
statute being due to an unavoidable accident, the limitation of the statute for that trip was at an end and the
company was not liable for the penalty imposed because
of the extra service required upon that trip. On the other
hand, the Government insists that in view of the prime
purpose of the statute to limit the hours of service so as to
keep within the time prescribed, and not to subject the
men to service beyond these hours, it was the company's
duty to relieve the crew at San Bernardino by supplying
their places with others instead of keeping them on duty
to Los Angeles, thereby requiring service in excess of that
permitted by the statute.
Considering these opposing contentions, it must be
remembered that the purpose of the act was to prevent
the dangers which must necessarily arise to the employee
and to the public from continuing men in a dangerous and
hazardous business for periods so long as to render them
unfit to give that service which is essential to the protection of themselves and those entrusted to their care. It is
common knowledge that the enactment of this legislation
was induced by reason of the many casualties in railroad
transportation which resulted from requiring the discharge of arduous duties by tired and exhausted men whose
power of service and energy had been so weakened by overwork as to render them inattentive to duty or incapable
of discharging the responsible labors of their positions.

ATCHISON, T. & S. F. RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
244 U. S.

343

Opinion of the Court.

To promote the end in view, so essential to public and
private welfare, Congress, in this Hours of Service Act,
provided the limitations named upon the hours of service.
The act is remedial and in the public interest, and should
be construed in the light of its humane purpose. Congress
also realized that it might be impracticable in all cases to
keep the employment within the hours fixed in the act,
and added a proviso to relieve from the general application
of the requirements of the law so that it might not apply
when the employment beyond the periods named was
caused by casualty or unavoidable accident or the act of
God, or where the delay was tlhe result of a cause not
known to the carrier or its officer or agent at the time the
employee left a terminal, and which could not have been
foreseen.
It was not the intention of the proviso, as we read it,
to relieve the carrier from the exercise of diligence to comply with the general provisions of the act, but only to relieve it from accidents arising from unknown causes which
necessarily entailed overtime employment and service.
United States v. Dickson, 15 Pet. 141. It is still the duty
of the carrier to do all reasonably within its power to
limit the hours of service in accordance with the requirements of the law.
Applying this view to the present case, it was the duty
of the company, after the breakdown between Barstow
and San Bernardino, to use all reasonable diligence to
avoid the consequences of the unavoidable accidents
which had delayed the movement of the train and to
relieve the crew by the means practically at hand. This
the company might have done by putting on a relief crew
at San Bernardino instead of permitting an already exhausted crew, when their condition is judged by the service
performed, to hazard their own lives and safety as well
as the safety of others by continuing the journey to Los
Angeles.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court..

244 U. S.

The requirement of continued service after the train
reached San Bernardino was not occasioned by the unforeseen accidents, but was the direct consequence of the
failure of the company to relieve the employees by the
substitution of a fresh crew, as the record shows could
readily have been done.
It is contended by the company that this construction
of the statute is opposed to that given by the Interstate
Commerce Commission, the body entrusted by Congress
with the enforcement of the act, and is against the understanding of the law which the Commission had given the
company to believe would be enforced.
It appears that two constructions of the act have been
given by the Interstate Commerce Commission; one on
March 16, 1908, as follows:
"The instances in which the act will not apply include
only such occurrences as could not be guarded against;
those which involved no neglect or lack of precaution on
the part of the carrier, its agents, or officers; and they
serve to waive the application of the law to employees on
trains only until such employees, so delayed, reach a terminal or relay point."
This construction would plainly require the railroad
company to have substituted a new crew at San Bernardino and not to require the further service to Los
Angeles. The other construction, and the one which the
company contends should be controlling, was given later,
on May 24, 1908, and is as follows:
"Section 3 of the law provides that: 'The provisions of
this Act shall not apply in any case of casualty or unavoidable accident or act of God; nor where the delay was
the result of a cause not known to the carrier or its officer
or agent in charge of such employee at the time said employee left a terminal, and which could not have been
foreseen.'
"Any employee so delayed may therefore continue on

ATCHISON, T. '& S. F. RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
244 U. S.

345

Opinion of the Court.

duty to the terminal or end of' that run. The proviso
removes the application of the law to that trip. (See Rule
287.)"
. These possibly diverse rulings of the Commission
were
rescinded on April 9, 1917, by the following order of the
Commission:
"Conference Rulings 88 (b) and 287 (i), relating to the
Hours-of-Service-Law, rescinded, for the reason that they
were issued as informal expressions of the Commission's
views to act as guides until the questions could be judicially interpreted, and they having been judicially interpreted and are now before the court on appeal there is no
further occasion for these former views of the Commission."
If the construction contended for by the company be
adopted, it would follow that the employees might be
kept in service for indefinite periods, until the termination
or end of the run should be reached, which it is not difficult
to suppose might require many hours of service beyond
the limitations prescribed in the body of the act. This
construction would defeat the purpose of the act by permitting the employees to endanger themselves and the
public by the continued service of tired and exhausted
men. We reach the conclusion that in keeping the crew
in service beyond San Bernardino the Company was guilty
of a violation of the statute.
We find no error in the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals, and the same is
Affirmed.
MR. JusTICE McREYOLDS took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

