OCTO3ER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

244 U. S.

nity in the trial court, this court cannot review such final
judgment and hold that the state enactment was unconstitutional or that the right or immunity so claimed had
been denied by the highest court of the State, if that court
did nothing. more than decline to pass upon the Federal
question because not raised in the trial court as required
by the state practice. Spies v. Illinois, 123 U. S. 131, 181;
Miller v. Texas, 153 U. S. 535, 538; Morrison v. Watson,
154 U. S. 111, 115."
The original action was based upon a state statute; the
answer did not set up or rely upon the federal act; the
trial court's attention was not called thereto; and although
urged to hold liability depended upon it, the Supreme
Court declined to pass upon that point because not presented to the trial court. This ruling seems in entire accord with both state statutes and established practice.
Rev. Stats. Mo. 1909, § 2081; St. Louis v. Flanagan, 129
Missouri, 178; Freeland v. Williamson, 220 Missouri, 217.
The writ must be dismissed.
Dismissed.

VALLEY STEAMSHIP COMPANY v. WATTAWA.
VALLEY STEAMSHIP COMPANY v. MRAZ.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS, EIGHTH DISTRICT, OF THE
STATE OF OHIO.

Nos. 469, 470. Argued January 10, 11, 1917.-Decided May 21, 1917.
It being settled that in the absence of congressional legislation the commerce clause does not forbid a State to legislate concerning the relative rights and duties of employers and employees within her borders
although engaged in interstate commerce, a contention to the con-

VALLEY S. S. CO. v. WATTAWA.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

trary will not afford jurisdiction to this court to review a state judgment.
So held where an Ohio elective Workmen's Compensation Law, in withdrawing the defenses of contributory negligence, negligence of fellow
servant and assumption of risk from employers not accepting provisions of the act, was claimed to contravene the commerce clause,
as applied to a company engaged in interstate transportation by
steamship.
The objection that the Ohio Compensation Act, as applied to a steamship company engaged in interstate commerce, would be an unconstitutional invasion of the federal maritime jurisdiction cannot be
considered in this case, since the jurisdiction of the court below is
confined to review of the trial court's judgment for errors appearing
on the record, and this objection was neither made in the trial court,
nor, clearly, in the petition in error before the court below, nor
definitely mentioned in the latter court's opinion. Mutual Life
Insurance Co. v. McGrew, 188 U. S. 291.
Dismissed.

THE cases are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Tracy H. Duncan, with whom Mr. FrankS. Masten

was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. George H. Eichelberger for defendants in error.
Memorandum opinion by MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS.
NUMBER 469.

Seeking damages under the laws of Ohio, defendant in
error Wattawa brought this action in the Common Pleas
Court of Cuyahoga County. He alleged that by reason of
the Steamship Company's negligence he suffered personal
injuries in September, 1913 while employed by it as a deck
hand on the Edwin N. Ohl then lying at Sandusky, Ohio;
and that although an employer of more than five men the
company was not a subscriber or contributor to the State
Insurance Fund provided for by the Act of May 31, 1911the first Ohio Workmen's, Compensation Act.' In defence
1 General Code, §§ 1465-37 to. 1465-70.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

the company claimed that although employing more than
five men it was engaged in interstate commerce and therefore was not required to subscribe to the State Insurance
.Fund; denied negligence; and alleged that the accident
resulted wholly from the employee's want of care and
moreover that he had assumed the risk. Upon motion
the allegation as to assumption of risk was stricken out.
The court charged that as the company had not accepted
the Compensation Act it could not rely upon common-law
defences based on the fellow-servant rule, assumption of
risk or contributory negligence. Judgment upon a verdict
for $5,200.00 was affirmed by the Court of Appeals, and
petitions in error and for certiorari were denied by the
Supreme Court.
We are asked to reverse the action of the Court of Appeals upon two grounds. First, because the company was
engaged in interstate commerce and therefore could not
be subjected to the Compensation Act without burdening
such commerce contrary to the Commerce Clause of the
Federal Constitution. Second, because Article III, § 2
of the Constitution extended judicial power to all cases
of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction and thereby rendered the general maritime law part of the federal laws•
not subject to alteration by state statutes.
The first point relied upon is entirely without merit and
inadequate to support our jurisdiction. In the absence
of congressional legislation the settled general rule is
that without violating the Commerce Clause the States
may legislate concerning relative rights and duties of employers and employees while within their borders although
engaged in interstate commerce. Lake Shore & Michigan
Southern Ry. Co. v. Ohio, 173 U. S. 285, 297; The Minnesota
Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 408.
The second reason for reversal now set up was not
presented to the trial court in any form. It was not
pointed out clearly, if at all, by the petition in error before

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. JENSEN.

244 U. S.

Syllabus.

the Court of Appeals and was not definitely mentioned in
the opinior of that court whose powers only extend to a
review of the trial court's judgment for errors appearing
on the record. Section 12,247, Ohio General Code, as
amended by Ohio Laws 103, pp. 405, 431. The question
therefore is not properly before us. Mutual Life Insurance
Co. v. McGrew, 188 U. 'S. 291, 308, 309.
The writ of error must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

NUMBER 470.
Counsel for the Steamship Company have admitted of
record here that this cause involves the same state of facts
and questions of law as those presented in Number 469.
They were heard together and the same judgment will be
entered in each of them.
Dismissed.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPANY v. JENSEN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT, APPELLATE DIVISION, THIRD
JUDICIAL DEPARTMENT, OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 280. Argued February 28, 1916; restored to docket for reargument
November 13, 1916; reargued January 31, February 1, 1917.-Decided
May 21, 1917.
The Federal Employers' Liability Act applies only where the injury
occurs in railroad operations or their adjuncts, and cannot be extended to interstate maritime transportation merely because the
vessel in the case is owned and operated by an interstate carrier by
railroad.
The word "boats" in the statute refers to vessels which may be prop-

