OCTOBER TERM, 1916.

Syllabus.

244 U. S.

erate uniformly in all the States, as respects interstate
commerce, and in that field it is both paramount and
exclusive." Congress having declared when, how far,
and to whom carriers shall be liable on account of accidents
in the specified class, such liability can neither be extended
nor abridged by common or statutory laws of the State.
The judgment in Number 239 is
Affirmed.
In Number 240 the judgment below is reversed and the
cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent
with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BIRANDEIS concurs in the result announced

in No. 240.

MASON ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF ALASKA, SECOND DIVISION.
No. 604.

Submitted April 11, 1917.-Decided June 4, 1917.

The Fifth Amendment does not relieve a witness from answering
merely on his own declaration or judgment that an answer might
incriminate him; whether he must answer is determinable by the
trial court in the exercise of its sound discretion; and unless there.is
reasonable ground, as distinct from a remote or speculative possibility, to apprehend that a direct answer may prove dangerous to the
witness, his answer should be compelled.
In the absence of manifest error, the ruling of a trial judge upon a
witness' objection that an answer may incriminate him, will not be
reversed by this court.
Affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

MASON v. UNITED STATES.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. George B. Grigsby fof plaintiffs in error.
The Solicitor Generaland Mr. Robert Szold for the United
States.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
court.
Plaintiffs in error were separately called to testify before a Grand Jury at Nome, Alaska, engaged in investigating a charge of gambling against six other men.
Both were duly sworn. After stating that he was sitting
at a table in the Arctic Billiard Parlors when these men
were there arrested, Mason refused to answer two questions, claiming so to do might tend to incriminate him.
(1) "Was there a game of cards being played on this particular evening at the table at which you were sitting?"
(2) "Was there a game of cards being played at another
table at this time?" Having said that at the specified
time and place he, also, was sitting at a table, Hanson
made the same claim and refused to answer two questions.
(1) "If at this time or just prior to this time that yourself and others were arrested in the Arctic Billiard Parlors
if you saw any one there playing 'stud poker' or 'pangingi'?" (2) "If at this same time you saw any one playing a game of cards at the table at which you were sitting?"
The foreman of the Grand Jury promptly reported the
foregoing facts and the judge at once heard the recalcitrant witnesses; but as the record contains no detailed
statement of What then occurred we cannot know the
exact circumstances. The court, being of opinion "that
each and all of said questions are proper and that the
answers thereto would not tend to incriminate the witnesses," directed them to return before the Grand Jury
and reply. Appearing there, Mason again refused to
answer the first question propounded to him, but, half

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

yielding to frustration, said in response to the second,
"I don't know." Hanson refused to answer either question.
A second report was presented by the foreman; the
witnesses were once more brought into court; and after
hearing evidence adduced by both sides and arguments
of counsel they were adjudged in contempt. It was further ordered "that they each be fined in the sum of one
hundred dollars, and that they each be imprisoned until
they comply with the orders of the court by answering
the questions." Immediately following this order they
made answers, but these are not set out in the record.
The fines are unpaid; and we are asked to reverse the
trial court's action in undertaking to impose them because it conflicts with the ,inhibition of the Fifth Amendment that no person "shall be compelled in any criminal
case to be a witness against himself."
During the trial of Aaron Burr, In re Willie, 25
Fed. Cas. No. 14,692e, pp. 38, 39, the witness was required to answer notwithstanding his refusal upon the
ground that he might thereby incriminate himself. Chief
Justice Marshall announced the applicable doctrine as
follows: "When two principles come in conflict with each
other, the court must give them both a reasonable construction, so as to preserve them both to a reasonable
extent. The principle which entitles the United States
to the testimony of every citizen, and the principle by
which every witness is privileged not to accuse himself,
can neither of them be entirely disregarded. They are
believed both to be preserved to a reasonable extent,
and according to the true intention of the rule and of the
exception to that rule, by observing that course which it is
conceived courts have generally observed. It is this:
When a question is propounded, it belongs to the court
to consider and to decide whether any direct answer to
it can implicate the witness. If this be decided in the

MASON v. UNITED STATES.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

negative, then he may answer it without violating the
privilege which is secured to him by law. If a direct answer to it may criminate himself, then he must be the
sole judge what his answer would be."
The constitutional protection against self-incrimination
"is confined to real danger and does not extend to remote
possibilities out of the ordinary course of law." Heike v.
United States, 227 U. S. 131, 144; Brown v. Walker, 161
U. S. 591, 599, 600.
In The Queen v. Boyes (1861), 1 B. & S. 311, 329, 330,
Cockburn, C. J., said:
"It was also contended that a bare possibility of legal
peril was sufficient to entitle a witness to protection; nay,
further, that the witness was the sole judge as to whether
his evidence would bring him into danger of the law; and
that the statement of his belief to that effect, if not manifestly made mala fide, should be received as conclusive.
With the latter of these propositions we are altogether
unable to concur. .
.
To entitle a party called as a
witness to the privilege of silence, the Court must see,
from the circumstances of the case and the nature of the
evidence which the witness is called to give, that there is
reasonable ground to apprehend danger to the witness
from his being compelled to answer. We indeed quite
agree that, if the fact of the witness being in danger be
once made to appear, great latitude should be allowed to
him in judging for himself of the effect of any particular
question: . . . A question which might appear at
first sight a very innocent one, might, by affording a link
in a chain of evidence, become the means of bringing home
an offence to the party answering. Subject to this reservation, a Judge is, in our opinion, bound to insist on a witness
answering unless he is satisfied that the answer will tend
to place the witness in peril."
"Further than this, we are of opinion that the danger
to be apprehended must be real and appreciable, with

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

reference to the ordinary operation of law in the ordinary
course of things-not a danger of an imaginary and unsubstantial character, having reference to some extraordinary and barely possible contingency, so improbable
that no reasonable man would suffer it to influence his
conduct. We think that a merely remote and naked
possibility, out of the ordinary course of the law and such
as no reasonable man would be affected by, should not
be suffered to obstruct the administration of justice.
The object of the law is to afford to a party, called upon
to give evidence in a proceeding inter alios, protection
against being brought by means of his own evidence
within the penalties of the-law. But'it would be to convert a salutary protection into a means of abuse if it were
to be held that a mere imaginary possibility of danger,
however remote and improbable, was sufficient to justify
the withholding of evidence essential to the ends of justice."
The statement of the law in The Queen v. Boyes was
expressly approved by all the judges in Ex parte Reynolds
(1882), 20 Ch. Div. 294. Similar announcements of it
may be found in Ex parte Irvine, 74 Fed. Rep. 954, 960;
Ward v. State, 2 Missouri, 120, 122; Ex parte Buskett, 106
Missouri, 602, 608.
The general rule under which the trial judge must determine each claim according t6 its own particular circumstances, we think, is indicated with adequate certainty
in the above cited opinions. Ordinarily, he is in much
better position to appreciate the essential facts than an
appellate court can hold and he must be permitted to
exercise some discretion, fructified by common sense, when
dealing with this necessarily difficult subject. Unless
there has been a distinct denial of a right guaranteed, we
ought not to interfere.
In the present case the witnesses certainly were not
relieved from answering merely because they declared

MASON v. UNITED STATES.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that so to do might incriminate them. The wisdom of the
rule in this regard is well illustrated by the enforced answer, "I don't know," given by Mason to the second
question, after he had refused to reply under a claim of
constitutional privilege.
No suggestion is made that it is criminal in Alaska to
sit at a table where cards are being played or to join in
such game unless played for something of value. The
relevant statutory provision is ยง 2032, Compiled Laws of
Alaska, 1913, copied in the margin.'
The court below evidently thought neither witness had
reasonable cause to apprehend danger to himself from a
direct answer to any question propounded and, in the
circumstances disclosed, we cannot say he reached an
erroneous conclusion.
Separate errors are also assigned to the trial court's
action in permitting counsel to introduce two documents
in evidence; but we think the points are without substantial merit.
The judgment under review is
Affirmed.
1"Sec. 2032. That each and every person who shall deal, play, or

carry on, open or cause to be opened, or who shall conduct, either as
owner, proprietor or employee, whether for hire or not, any game of faro,
monte, roulette, rouge-et-noir, lansquenet, rondo, vingt-un, twenty-one,
poker, draw poker, brag, bluff, thaw, craps, or any banking or other
game played with cards, dice, or any other device, whether the same
shall be played for money, checks, credit, or any other representative
of value, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof
shall be punished by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars, and
shall be imprisoned in the county jail until such fine and costs are paid:
Provided, That such person so convicted shall be imprisoned one day
for every two dollars of such fine and costs: And provided further, That
such imprisonment shall not exceed one year."

