OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

244 U. S.

United Copper' Company, and had vested in those receivers
the possession of "all the properties owned by the defendant [the United Copper Company], or in which the
said defendant has any ownership or interest, whether
such property be real, personal or mixed, of whatsoever
kind and description, and wheresoever situated, includthings in action, credits, stocks, bonds,
ing . .
securities, shares of stock in the corporations described in
said bill of complaint, and all shares of stock, certificates
of equitable interest and other certificates representing
any interest in any property and all other securities of
whatsoever character owned by the defendant company,
on or in which it has any interest, or which it controls
directly or indirectly," and that on February 14, 1913, the
same persons had been appointed ancillary receivers by
the United States District Court for the District of New
Jersey. We have no occasion to consider the power of this
court to grant the motion for substitution. See Railway
Co. v. Twombly, 100 U. S. 78, 81. It is without merit
and is denied.
Judgment affirmed.

HAMER ET AL. v. NEW YORK RAILWAYS COMPANY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 968.

Argued April 10, 1917.-Decided May 21, 1917.

With the delivery of a mortgage to secure bonds of one corporation
there was delivered to the trustee stamped on each bond a guaranty
by another corporation whereby the latter guaranteed "to the
Trustee of the within-mentioned mortgage, for the benefit of the
holders thereof, punctual payment of the principal of the within

bond and the interest thereon

.

.

. according to the tenor of

HAMER v. NEW YORK RAILWAYS CO.
244 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

the several coupons belonging thereto." Upon foreclosing the mortgage, the trustee obtained judgment against the guarantor company
for a deficiency.
Held: (1) That whether the guaranty were treated as having created
an aggregation of as many obligations as there were bonds, each constituting a separate contract between the guarantor and the respective bondholder, or a,single -obligation for the benefit of the bondholders collectively, in either case there was a merger of the original
cause or causes of action in the single judgment recovered by the
trustee.
(2) The judgment being held as an unit by the trustee, for the benefit
of all the bondholders, a suit to enforce it by a majority of-them,
though alleged to be on behalf also of all others similarly situated,
could not be maintained without joining the trustee as a necessary
party.
(3) In such suit, for the purpose of testing the District Court's jurisdiction on the basis of diverse citizenship, the trustee, though made
a defendant, must be realigned as a plaintiff, no hostility on its part
appearing beyond a refusal to institute the action, assignable to no
other motive than to aid the federal jurisdiction, and its real attitude
being friendly as evinced by its answer.
One corporation, after guaranteeing bonds of another, passed into a
receivership in the District Court which ended in foreclosure of its
own bonds and sale of its property, without reservation in the decree
of liens or similar rights or power of the court concerning them.
Meanwhile by independent proceedings in a state court the bonds of
the second company were foreclosed and a deficiency judgment was
rendered against the first company on the guaranty, which judgment
being presented as a claim in the District Court proceedings was rejected because the first company's liability to pay it was contingent
at the date set for proving claims in that court. Held, that a suit
brought later in the District Court upon the ground that by its
decree the equities of persons interested in the deficiency judgment
were wrongly ignored and seeking to have that judgment impressed
as a lien upon .the property so sold, was not within the District
Court's jurisdiction as a suit ancillary to the foreclosure proceedings
in which its decree was rendered.
Affirmed.
THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. A. S. Gilbert for appellants.

Mr. Richard Reid Rogers for appellees.

268

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
court.
This appeal presents the single question whether the'
District Court erred in dismissing the bill for want of
jurisdiction, on the ground that the controversy involved
was not one between citizens of different States. The
question was duly certified in conformity to ยง 238 of the
Judicial Code. The facts are these:
The Twenty-eighth and Twenty-ninth Street Crosstown
Railroad Company, of New. York City, issued, on October
1, 1896, bonds to the amount of $1,500,000, and secured
them by a mortgage of its property to the Central Trust
Company. The Metropolitan Street Railway Company
having previously leased the Crosstown Railroad, delivered with the mortgage stamped on each of the bonds a
guaranty to the Trust Company in -the following terms:
"FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the Metropolitan Street Railway Company hereby guarantees to the Trustee of the
within-mentioned mortgage, for the benefit of the holders
thereof, punctual payment of the principal of the within
bond and the interest thereon at the time and in the manner therein specified and according to the tenor of the
several coupons belonging thereto."
In September, 1907, the Metropolitan Company passed
into the hands of receivers appointed by the Circuit (now
District) Court of the United States for the Southern
District of New York. Soon thereafter default was made
in the payment of interest on the Crosstown bonds.
The customary bondholders' committee was formed; and
1373 of th6 1500 bonds outstanding were deposited with
it. At its request the Trust Company declared the bonds
due and brought suit in the Supreme Court of New York
to foreclose the mortgage. The court by special order
granted an application of the Trust Company for permission to liquidate, in the foreclosure suit, its claim against

HAMER v. NEW YORK RAILWAYS CO.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the Metropolitan Company on the guarantee. For that
purpose the Metropolitan Company was joined as defendant; and a deficiency judgment for $1,745,344.21 was
entered against it on February 20, 1912, in favor of the
Trust Company.
The property of the Metropolitan Company had meanwhile been administered by receivers appointed by the
District Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York; and the several committees representing its bondholders, stockholders and creditors had
adopted a plan and agreement for the reorganization of
that company. Pursuant thereto its franchise and assets
had been, on January 1, 1912, transferred to a new corporation, the New York Railways Company; and the
securities and cash issued in exchange therefor were distributed among security holders, creditors, and otherwise,
as in the plan provided. No provision was made in the
plan for adjusting the liability of the Metropolitan Company arising out of its guaranty of the Crosstown bonds.
The District Court refused to allow the claim on the deficiency judgment to be proved in the Metropolitan receivership; because the date as of which claims against
the property were ordered to be proved was January 15,
1908; and the claim on the guaranty was at that date contingent merely. Consequently neither the Committee
nor the Trust Company representing the Crosstown bondholders assented to the plan for reorganizing the Metropolitan Company.
In October, 1913, the members of the Crosstown bondholders' Committee, suing on behalf of themselves and
"all other similarly situated bondholders," brought suit
in the District Court of the United States for the Southern
District of New York against the New York Company,
the Metropolitan Company and the" Central Trust Company, to enforce out of the property of the New York Company satisfaction of the liability of the Metropolitan Com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

pany arising out of its guaranty. The bill set forth facts
to bring the case within the rule declared in Northern
Pacific Ry. Co. v. Boyd, 228 U. S. 482, and Kansas City
,Southern Ry. Co. v. Guardian Trust Co., 240 U. S. 166;
and as reason for the suit being brought in the name of the
bondholders alleged the following:
"That the defendant Central Trust Company of New
York holds the said judgment against the defendant
Metropolitan Street Railway Company, amounting to
$1,745,344.21, for the benefit of and as the trustee for the
plaintiffs and the other holders of said bonds of the
Twenty-eighth- and Twenty-ninth'Streets Crosstown Railroad Company hereinbefore described; and that the reason
why this action is brought by the plaintiffs and why the
Central Trust Company of New York is made a party
defendant is that the plaintiffs are the lawful owners and
holders of said bonds in the amount hereinbefore alleged,
and the beneficial and equitable owners of said judgment
held by the defendant Central Trust Company of New
York; and that the defendant Central Trust Company of
New York has refused to bring this action after due demand by the plaintiffs upon said defendant Central Trust
Co. of N. Y., although the plaintiffs have offered proper
indemnification to the said defendant Central Trust Company of New York, as such Trustee, to institute this suit
to enforce the rights of the Trustee and of the bondholders
under said judgment and guarantee made by said defendant Metropolitan Street Railway Company as aforesaid."
Jurisdiction of the District Court Was rested wholly
on diversity of citizenship, plaintiffs being all citizens
and residents of States other than New York, and the
three defendants, corporations organized ,under the laws
of that State.. The Trust Company filed an answer in
substance joining ii; the prayer of the bill and admitting
its allegations. The New York Railways. Company besides answering to the merits, alleged:

HAMER v. NEW YORK RAILWAYS CO.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"That the interests of the plaintiffs, and all other
security holders, and the interests of said defendant
Central Trust Company of New York, are identical and in
all respects similar to the interests of the plaintiffs, and
all other owners or holders of bonds secured by the mortgage . . . ; that the parties to this action should be
realigned by the Court, and placed according to their
interests in the subject-matter of this suit, and for the
reasons hereinbefore alleged, and for divers other reasons
appearing on the face of the Bill upon the trial of this
action, this defendant alleges that this Court is without
jurisdiction to entertain this complaint, or to give judgment for the relief demanded therein."
It also appeared by stipulation that the holders of a
large part of the Crosstown bonds deposited with the
committee were citizens and residents of New York.
Plaintiffs admit that in respect to the Crosstown Company no cause of action on the bond vested in any one
bondholder; since the bondholders were bound by the
terms of the mortgage under which all right to sue on the
bonds and to foreclose the mortgage was in the Trust
Company. But they insist that the rights of the bondholders against the Metropolitan Company on the guaranty were entirely distinct from their rights against the
Crosstown Company on the bonds; that the guaranty
vested in the holder of each bond a cause of action on
which he could sue in his own name; that the original
guaranty to the Trust Company was a naked promise to
one for the benefit of another; that the judgment obtained
by the Trust Company belongs to the holders of the
bonds; that it is in this suit merely a "use plaintiff," a
title owner of the judgment who owes no duty to the
plaintiff or other bondholders with reference thereto, has
no interest in the result of the suit and need not have been
made a party thereto; and that being a merely formal
party should be disregarded in determining the question

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

of jurisdiction. Before discussing whether the Trust
Company has an interest and, if so,, its character and
effect, the nature of this suit should be considered.
1. The cause of action.
This is not a suit upon the original guaranty. It is a
suit to enforce a judgment. The prayer of the bill is that
the property acquired by the New York Railways Company "be declared to be subject to the lien of said judgment." The rights on the original guaranty, whether
they be treated, by virtue of the stamping on each bond,
as an aggregation of 1500 separate causes of action or be
treated as a single cause of action for the benefit of the
1500 bondholders, were merged in that judgment. This
is true, even if, as contended, the guaranty to the Trust
Company stamped on each bond "for the benefit of the
holders thereof" be construed as importing a promise of
payment directly to the holder on which he was at liberty
to sue in his own name. For the recovery of the judgment
extinguished through merger the original cause or causes
of action and the judgment is one recovered by the Trust
Company as trustee.'
2. The interest of the Trust Company.
Whatever may have been the situation originally with
respect to rights of individual bondholders on the guaranty, we have now a single judgment held by the Trust
Company as trustee for the pro rata benefit of 1500 bondholders. The plaintiffs allege that they hold 1373 of these
bonds-that is, a fraction only of the beneficial interest.
It is thus clear that the minority bondholders as well as
the railway companies defendant require for the protecI"If
there be any one principle of law settled beyond all question,
it is this, that whensoever a cause of action, in the language of the law',
transit in rem judicatam, and the judgment thereupon remains in full
force unreversed, the original cause of action is merged and gone forever." United States v. Leffler, 11 Pet. 86, 100, 101. See also Mason v.
Eldred, 6 Wall. 231; Gaines v. Miller, 111 U. S. 395, 399.

HAMER v. NEW YORK RAILWAYS CO.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tion of their respective interests that the Trust Company
be a party to the litigation; the minority bondholders, so
that they may share ratably in the proceeds; the railway
companies, in order that they may upon paying the
amount of the judgment be discharged from the possibility
of further liability. The judgment is a unit and the relief
sought on it is necessarily for the benefit of all. Blacklock
v. Small, 127 U. S. 96, 104. But a suit by some bondholders does not, by the allegation that it is in behalf of
all others similarly situated, become a class suit binding
on all. Wabash R. R. Co. v. Adelbert College, 208 U. S. 38,
57. And for the protection of the Trust Company itself
joinder as a party is essential, in order that upon distribution of any proceeds it may be discharged from obligations
to its beneficiaries.
To the state of facts presented here, Greene v. Republic
Fire Insurance Co., 84 N. Y. 572, which is strongly relied
upon by plaintiffs, has no application. In that case the
assignee of a chose in action, having recovered a judgment
in Mississippi, where he was obliged (as by the common
law procedure) to sue for his own use in the assignor's
name; was permitted to sue on the judgment in New York
in his own name; since the New York Code requires suit
to be brought in the name of the real party in interest.
There the assignor having assigned the cause of action
had no interest in it when the action was commenced in
Mississippi and consequently no interest in the judgment;
and the judgment record so recited, declaring that it
was "for the use and benefit of .Edward A. Greene."
Here there has been no assignment either of the cause of
action or of the judgment. The prayer of the complaint
was that the Trust Company "as trustee may have judgment against . . . said Metropolitan Company";
and in accordance with that prayer judgment for the
deficiency was entered. So far as the record discloses, the
deficiency judgment against the Metropolitan Company,

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

like that against the Crosstown Company and the property transferred by the mortgage, is held by the Trust
Company as trustee for all the bondholders.' That under
such circumstances the trustee is a necessary party to this
suit is clear.
3. The affiliation of the Trust Company.
It is clear that the interest of the Trust Company in this
controversy lies wholly with the plaintiffs. This is shown,
among other things, by the request in its answer that the
relief prayed for in the bill be granted. No reason is
assigned in the bill or in the answer of the Trust Company
for its refusal to sue; and none suggests itself save the
willingness of an accommodating trustee to enable its
beneficiaries to present that appearance of diversity of
citizenship essential to conducting this litigation in the
federal court. It is not contended that this refusal to sue
makes the Trust Company an adversary to be classed for
purposes of jurisdiction with the real defendants-as in
those cases where the refusal to sue was part of a fraudulent participation in the wrongdoing, and where the
trustee or corporation in effect ranged itself in opposition
to the relief sought.2 The Trust Company having, as we
have shown, a real interest in the cQntroversy, which
makes it a necessary party to the suit, must be aligned
3
as a party plaintiff, where its interest lies.
Since the necessary realignment of the Trust Company
as party plaintiff is fatal to the jurisdiction of the District
Court, it is unnecessary to consider the legal effect of the
fact stipulated, that a large part of the bondholders rep1 See Knapp v. Railroad Company, 20 Wall. 117, 123; Richter v.
Jerome, 123 U. S. 233, 246.
2 Venner v. Great NorthernRy. Co., 209 U. S. 24; Doctor v. Harrington,
196 U. S. 579; Kelly v. Mississippi River Coaling Co., 175 Fed. Rep.
482; Groel v. United Electric Co., 132 Fed. Rep. 252.
3 Blacklock v. Small, 127 U. S. 96, 104; Harter v. Kernochan, 103 U. S.
562; Pacific Railroadv. Ketchum, 101 U. S. 289; Allen-West Commission
Co. v. Brashear, 176 Fed. Rep. 119; Shipp v. Williams, 62 Fed. Rep. 4.

HAMER v. NEW YORK RAILWAYS CO.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

resented by plaintiffs are likewise citizens and residents
of New York.
4. Whether the suit is an ancillary one.
The plaintiffs, relying upon Wabash R. R. Co. v. Adelbert College, 208 U. S. 38, 53, attempt to sustain the jurisdiction of the court on the ground that this suit is ancillary
to the foreclosure proceedings against the Metropolitan
Company in the District Court. But the facts in that
case bear no resemblance to those here under consideration. There the rights and lien which it was declared the
federal court had exclusive jurisdiction to ascertain and
enforce were expressly reserved by the decree; and the
purchaser under the decree took title expressly subject
to them. The decree of foreclosure under which sale was
made of the property of the Metropolitan Company,
which was later transferred to the New York Company,
contained, so far as appears from the record, no reservation whatsoever concerning liens or similar rights. And
there is in the answer of the New York Company the uncontroverted statement that the properties subject to the
foreclosure "were sold to the purchasers and to the New
York Railways Company, free and clear of any lien, claims
or interest in any party outstanding, except the interests"
of those expressly provided for in the Plan of Reorganization; and that the proceedings resulting in the deficiency
judgment against the Metropolitan Company here sued
on "did not constitute a claim against, or a lien on, or an
interest in any of the property rights or estate of the
Metropolitan Street Railway Company." Furthermore
the bill in the instant case does not purport to be ancillary
to the Metropolitan Company foreclosure proceedings.
Plaintiffs here seek merely to establish an equity against
the property of the New York Company, on the theory
that the rights of the Crosstown bondholders have been
improperly ignored. They set up a wholly independent
cause of action.
Decree affirmed.

