SAUNDERS v. SHAW.
244 U.S.

Syllabus.

SAUNDERS v. SHAW AND THE BOARD OF
DRAINAGE COMMISSIONERS OF THE BAYOU
TERRE-AUX-BOEUFS DRAINAGE DISTRICT
ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OP THE STATE OF
LOUISIANA.
No. 472. Argued May 9, 1917.-Decided June 4, 1917.
It is a violation of due process of law for a state supreme court to reverse a case and render judgment absolute against the party who
succeeded in the trial court, upon a proposition of fact which was
ruled to be immaterial at the trial and concerning which he had
therefore no occasion and no proper opportunity to introduce his
evidence.
In a suit to enjoin the collection of a drainage tax, evidence offered by
the plaintiff to prove that his land could not be benefited by the
drainage improvement was ruled to be inadmissible upon defendant's
objection, but was spread upon the record as carried to the state
supreme court upon appeal from the judgment in defendant's favor.
The latter court, after affirming the judgment, reversed it on rehearing and granted a permanent injunction against the tax upon
finding from the answer and testimony before it that the land had
not been and could not be benefited; and declined to consider defendant's application for further rehearing. Held, that in thus rendering judgment against the defendant without affording opportunity
to introduce evidence upon the question of benefit there was a
violation of due process of law, contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment.
Upon the sustaining of his objection to evidence upon the ground that
the point to which it is directed is immaterial, a party is under no
obligation to offer evidence to rebut that which was offered by his
opponent and ruled to be inadmissible.
A claim that a judgment of a state supreme court violates rights under
the Fourteenth Amendment is not too late, though first made by
the assignment of errors presented to its Chief Justice when the writ
of error from this court was granted, if the aggrieved party was under
no duty to anticipate the state court's action before the judgment

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

was rendered and was afforded no opportunity afterwards to present
the claim for its consideration.'
138 Louisiana, 917, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Win. Winans Wall for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Frank L. Richardson, with whom Mr. Frank Soule
was on the brief, for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit for an injunction against the collection'of a
drainage tax. The drainage district had issued bonds
payable out of the tax and the plaintiff in error who held
some of these bonds was allowed to intervene in defence.
At the trial the plaintiff offered evidence to show that the
land taxed was outside of the levee system that the drainage commissioners were building, that it would receive
no benefit and really was an island or islands in the Gulf
of Mexico. The defendant objected and the evidence was
excluded as inadmissible under the pleadings, but it was
spread upon the record and completed in order to carry
the case to the Supreme Court. The defendant then put
in testimony that the land was not in the Gulf of Mexico,
and that the maps produced could not be relied upon for
the depth of the water when water was indicated, but
cross-examination to show the physical condition of the
property was objected to-the defendants' position being
that the question was not open, and that being the ruling
of the court. Judgment was entered for the defendant
'REPORTER's NOTE: Plaintiff in Error's petition for rehearing, mentioned in the opinion, is not copied in the record and non constat
whether the federal right was there set up. Semble, that no opportunity
was thus afforded to present the claim, because by the rule of the
court, the door was closed against the petition, regardless of what it
contained.

SAUNDERS v. SHAW.
244 U. S.

Opinioni of the Court.

and intervenor and was affirmed on appeal by the Supreme
Court. A rehearing was granted, however, and the court,
observing that the answer and testimony showed that
the land was low and marshy, had not been benefited or
drained and could not be drained under the present
system, held that the case was governed by Myles Salt
Co. v. Board of Commissioners of the Iberia & St. Mary
Drainage District, 239 U. S. 478, decided after the first
decision in the present case; reversed the-judgment and
granted an injunction against the assessment upon this
land.
The intervening defendant thereupon applied for a
rehearing, but the court declined to consider the application under its rule that only one rehearing should be
granted. He now brings this writ of error and says that
he has been deprived of due process of law contrary to
the Fourteenth Amendment, because the case has been
decided against him without his ever having had the
proper opportunity to present his evidence. Technically
this is true, for when the trial court ruled that it was not
open to the plaintiff to show that his land was not benefited, the defendant was. not bound to go on and offer
evidence that he contended was inadmissible, in order to
rebut the testimony already ruled to be inadmissible in
accordance with his view. The Chief Justice and Mr.
Justice O'Niell were of opinion that the case should be
remanded to the trial court, we presume upon the ground
just stated. Probably the majority of the Supreme Court
thought that it was so plain on the uncontroverted facts
that the case was within the principle of The Myles Salt
Company's Case that to remand it would be an empty
form--a mere concession to technicality. It may turn
out so, but we do not see in the record an absolute warrant
for the assumption and therefore cannot be sure that the
defendant's rights are protected without giving him a
chance to put his evidence in.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

244 U. S.

The question remains whether the writ of error can be
maintained. The record discloses the facts but does not
disclose the claim of right under the Fourteenth Amendment until the assignment of errors filed the day before
the Chief Justice of the State granted this writ. Of course
ordinarily that would not be enough. But when the act
complained of is the act of the Supreme Court, done unexpectedly at the end of the proceeding, when the plaintiff in error no longer had any right to add to the record,
it would leave a serious gap in the remedy for infraction
of constitutional rights if the party aggrieved in such a
way could not come here. The defendant was not bound
to contemplate a decision of the case before his evidence
was heard and therefore was not bound to ask a ruling
or to take other precautions in advance. The denial Of
rights given by the Fourteenth Amendment need not be
by legislation. Home Telephone & Telegraph Co. v. Los
Angeles, 227 U. S. 278. It appears that shortly after the
Supreme Court had declined to entertain the petition for
rehearing the plaintiff in error brought the claim of constitutional right -to'the attention of the Chief Justice of
the State by his assignment of errors. We do not see what
more he could have done.
Judgment reversed.

ERIE RAILROAD COMPANY v. PURUCKER, ADMINISTRATRIX OF MARIETTA.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS

OF RICHLAND COUNTY,

STATE OF OHIO.

No. 211.

Argued April 23, 1917.-Decided June 4, 1917.

A request to charge must be calculated to give the jury an accurate
understanding of the law with reference to the phase of the case to
which it is applicable.

