UNITED STATES v. WILDCAT.
244 U. S.

Syllabus.

I. C. C. 256, 265: "The present unduly low rates within
Arkansas are due at least in part to the attempt by the
Railroad Commission of Arkansas to protect Arkansas
shippers and build up Arkansas jobbing centres." In
that case it was intimated that the carriers would be required to remove discriminations resulting from the unduly low rates, as was done in the Shreveport Case. Houston, East & West Texas Ry. Co. v. United States, 234 U. S.
342. Upon the whole matter we are of opinion that the
decree below was right and it is affirmed.
Decree affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. WILDCAT, A MINOR, ET AL.
ON CERTIFICATE FROM AND CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT
COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 741.

Argued April 11, 12, 13, 1917.-Decided May 21, 1917.

Acting under the enrollment provisions of the Curtis Act of June 28,
1898, and the Creek Agreement of March 1, 1901, the Dawes Commission was a quasi judicial tribunal, and enrollments made by it
and approved by the Secretary of the Interior are presumptively
correct; and, unless impeached by very clear evidence of fraud, mistake or arbitrary action, they are conclusive.
Whether or not a person alleged to be a member of the Creek.Nation
was living on April 1, 1899, is one of the questions going to the right
of such person or his heirs to have his name enrolled under § 28 of
Agreement of March 1, 1901, which the Dawes Commission was
competent to decide; it is not a jurisdictional question, and an incorrect determination of it does not necessarily render the enrollment
void. Scott v. McNeal, 154 U. S. 34, distinguished.
In enrolling members of the Creek Tribe in 1901, the Dawes Commission was authorized, to presume that a person enrolled as a member
of the tribe on the tribal rolls of 1895 was living on April 1, 1899, in
the absence of proof of his death before that day or of circumstances
indicating that he had died before the commission acted.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Counsel for Parties.

244 U. S.

The evidence in the case examined and found wanting in proof of such
arbitrary action -on the part of the Dawes Commission as would
establish a mistake of law or fact warranting the impeachment of its
action in enrolling the Indian in whose name the allotment in question was made and patented.
An attempt of the Secretary of the Interior to set aside the enrollment
and allotment of a deceased Creek Indian by striking his name from
the rolls without notice to his heirs is ultra vires and void.
When a Creek citizen dies after April 1, 1899, and an allotment is afterwards made, and deeds issued, in his name, the title is vested'in his
heirs by § 28 of the Agreement of March 1, 1901. Skelton v. Dill,
235 U. S. 206-208.
Under the Creek Agreement of March 1, 1901, § 3, it was permissible
for the Dawes Commission to enroll tribal citizens and make them
allotments'when they failed to make selections for themselves.
Affirmed.
THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Kearful, with whom The
Solicitor Generaland Mr. S. W. Williams were on the brief,
for the United States.
Mr. Joseph C. Stone, Mr. John J. Shea and Mr. C. B.
Stuart for Wildcat et al. The following counsel were on the
brief: Mr. A. C. Cruce, Mr. Geo. S. Ramsey, Mr. Malcolm
E. Rosser, Mr. Edgar A. de Meules, Mr. Villard Martin,
Mr. John'Devereux, Mr. J. E. Wyand, Mr. K. B. Turner,
Mr. M. E. Turner, Mr. J. B. Furry, Mr. E. C. Motter,
Mr. P. J. Carey, Mr. W. C. Franklin, Mr. Burdette Blue,
Mr. Thomas F. Shea, Mr. William A. Collier, Mr. Hazen
Green, Mr. E. J. Van Court, Mr. Chas. A. Moon and Mr.
Francis Stewart.
Mr. A. A. Davidson, with whom Mr. Preston C. West
and Mr. James A. Veasey were on the brief, for Bissett
et al.
Mr. R. C. Allen and Mr. James C. Davis, by leave of
court, filed a brief on behalf of the Creek Nation as amici
curia.

UNITED STATES v. WILDCAT.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Grant Foreman and Mr. James D. Simms, by leave
of court, filed a brief as amici curie.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This action was begun by the United States, in behalf of
the Creek Tribe of Indians, in the District Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Oklahoma,
against Bessie Wildcat, and others, heirs of Barney
Thlocco, a full-blood Creek Indian, to obtain cancellation
of the allotment certificate and deeds for his allotment of
160 acres. The bill of complaint alleges that Thlocco was
a Creek Indian by blood; that he died at about the beginning of the year 1899 and prior to April 1, 1899, and that
he was not entitled to be enrolled as a citizen of the Creek
Nation or to receive an allotment of any part of its lands
under the acts of Congress; that on or about May 24, 1901,
the Commission to the Five Civilized Tribes caused his
name to be placed on the roll of Creek citizens by blood
which that Commission was then preparing; that thereafter, on June 30, 1902, the Commission issued a certificate of allotment in Thlocco's name, and homestead and
allotment patents purporting to convey the land allotted
were executed by the Principal Chief of the Creek Nation
on March 11, 1903, and approved by the Secretary of the
Interior on April 3, 1903; that thereafter, on December 13,
1906, the Secretary of the Interior, by executive order,
caused Thlocco's name to be stricken from the roll of
citizens by blood of the Creek Nation, and he is not an
enrolled citizen by blood or otherwise of the Creek Nation,
and is not now and has never been entitled to an allotment
of land therein because he has never been a lawfully enrolled citizen thereof, and because he died prior to April 1,
1899; and that the patents have never been delivered to
Thlocco or to any other person, but are in the possession
of complainant through its officers and agents. The bill

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

alleges that these instruments and proceedings constitute
a cloud upon the Creek Nation's title to the land and that
the existence of this cloud hinders and delays complainant
in the performance of the duty imposed on it by law to
allot and otherwise dispose of the lands and to wind up the
affairs of the Creek Nation, and prays that the allotment
certificate and patents be declared void and of no effect
as instruments of conveyance; that the defendants be
decreed to have no right, title, interest or estate in and to
the land; that the title to the land be quieted in complainant and the Creek Nation; that whatever cloud is
cast upon the title to the land by reason of the matters
aforesaid be decreed to be dissolved and the land decreed
to be a part of the public and unallotted tribal land of the
Creek Nation, subject to disposition by complainant in
accordance with law; that the enrollment of Barney
Thlocco be cancelled, and that he, or any person claiming
by, through, or under him, including the defendants, be
decreed not to be entitled to participate in the disposition
of the lands, moneys, or other property of the Creek Nation, and that the defendants be forever enjoined from
asserting any claim of title to, or interest in the tract of
land hereinbefore described, adverse to the complainant
and the Creek Nation. It is alleged that no hearing was
held or investigation made by the Commission and no
evidence of any kind was obtained or had by it on the
question of Thlocco's right to be enrolled; that no notice
was given to the Creek Nation that his name was about to
be enrolled; that there was no controversy, contest or
adverse proceeding of any kind before the Commission
in this respect; and that the Commission, in causing
Thlocco's name to be placed on the roll of Creek citizens
by blood, acted arbitrarily and summarily, and without
knowledge, information or belief that he was living or
dead on April 1, 1899, and acted on a mere arbitrary and
erroneous assumption wholly unsupported by evidence or

UNITED STATES v. WILDCAT.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

information that he was living on that date and entitled
to be enrolled.
The answer avers that Thlocco was living April 1, 1899,
and denies that the Commission acted arbitrarily and
without evidence in placing his name on the roll and allotting the lands to him, and alleges that the Commission,
in causing both these acts to be done, was not guilty of
any gross mistake of fact or of law, but acted upon evidence satisfactory to it, and sufficient in law and in fact.
It further alleges that the Dawes Commission was vested
with jurisdiction to determine what persons were entitled
to enrollment as citizens of the nation, and entitled to
allotment out of'the tribal lands, and that its decision in
that regard having been approved by the Secretary of the
Interior, "said enrollment, allotment and patent cannot
be cancelled, nor can the issue of fact upon which the Commission placed the name of said Barney Thlocco upon the
approved Creek roll be tried again, and these defendants
say that this court is without authority of law or jurisdiction to reopen or retry ,the question of fact sought to
be put in issue by the United States."
Other defendants claimed an interest in part of the
same property under a subsequent allotment and intervened for the same relief as was asked by the United
States.
Upon the trial of the case the Government offered to
show by witnesses and circumstances that Thlocco in fact
died in January, 1899. Upon objection to this evidence
by the defendants, the trial court ruled that the question
whether Thlocco was living on April 1, 1899, was one of the
questions which the law submitted to the Dawes Commission, and that its decision, placing Thlocco's name on the
tribal roll, could only be attacked upon the ground of
fraud, error of law, or gross mistake of fact, or upon the
ground that the Commission acted arbitrarily and wholly
without evidence; that it was not open to the Govern-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

ment,for the purpose of attacking the allotment certificate
and deeds to Thlocco, to retry the question of fact as to
whether he was living April 1,1899.
At the conclusion of the trial the Government renewed
its offer of proof, to which objections were sustained on
the ground just stated. A decree was then entered dismissing the bill for the reason that the Government had
failed to show that the Commission in enrolling Thlocco
acted arbitrarily and without evidence. Appeal was then
taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth
Circuit, which court certified certain questions of law to
this court. Subsequently a writ of certiorari was issued,
bringing the whole case here. (Judicial Code, § 239.)
The Government in the brief filed in its behalf reduces
the questions necessary to decide the merits of this appeal to, two: First, Should the evidence offered by the
Government to show that Thlocco died prior to April 1,
1899, have been admitted? Second, Should the judgment
of the District Court be reversed because the enrollment
of Thlocco and the allotment to him were made arbitrarily and without evidence as to whether he was living
or dead on April 1, 1899?
As to the first question, an understanding of certain
legislation is necessary to its answer. By the Act of
Congress of June 10, 1896, 29 Stat. 339, the Commission
to the Five Civilized Tribes, more commonly known as
the Dawes Commission, was authorized to hear and determine applications for citizenship in any of the Five Civilized Tribes. By that act the rolls of citizenship of those
tribes as they then existed were confirmed and the Commission commanded in determining applications for citizenship to "give due force and effect to the rolls, usages,
and customs of each of said nations or tribes." It was
provided by the Act of June 7, 1897, 30 Stat. 84, that the
term "rolls of citizenship" should mean "the last authenticated rolls of each tribe which have been approved by

UNITED STATES v. WILDCAT.
244 U. S.

117

Opinion of the Court.

the council of the nation, and the descendants of those
appearing on such rolls," and certain others specified who
had been lawfully added to the rolls. By the Curtis Act
of June 28, 1898, 30 Stat. 495, 502, the Commission was
authorized and directed to make correct rolls of the citizens by blood of the Creek Tribe, eliminating from the
tribal rolls such names as might have been placed thereon
by fraud or without authority of law, enrolling such only
as, might have lawful right thereto, and their descendants
born since such rolls were made. It was provided that the
Commission should make such rolls descriptive of the
persons thereon, so that they might be identified thereby,
and the Commission was authorized to take a census of
each of said tribes, or to adopt any other means by them
deemed necessary to enable them to make such rolls,
with the right of access to all rolls and records of the several tribes, and with authority to administer oaths, examine witnesses, and send for persons and papers. The
rolls so made, when approved by the Secretary of the
Interior, were to be final, and the persons whose names
were found thereon, with their descendants thereafter
born to them, with such persons as might intermarry
according to tribal laws, were alone to constitute the several tribes which they represented. By § 28 of the Creek
Agreement of March 1, 1901, 31 Stat. 861, 870, it was
provided that all citizens who were living on the first day
of April, 1899, entitled to be enrolled under the above
provisions of the Curtis Act, should be placed upon the
rolls to be made by the Dawes Commission under that
act, and provision was made for allotment to the heirs
where any such citizen had died since that time. "The
rolls so made by said commission," the act continues,
"when approved by the Secretary of the Interior, shall
be the final rolls of citizenship of said tribe, upon which
the allotment of all lands and the distribution of all moneys
and other property of the tribe shall be made, and to no

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

other persons." This agreement was ratified by the Creek
Council May 25, 1901, 32 Stat. 1971.
The legislation which we have outlined indicates the
purpose of Congress to make provision for the partition
of the lands belonging to the Creek Nation among the
members of the tribe, and to that end it authorized the
Dawes Commission to make investigation and determine
the names of such as were entitled to be on the rolls of
citizenship and to participate in the division of the tribal
lands. This purpose indicated in the Curtis Act of 1898
was emphasized by the so-called Creek Agreement of 1901,
subsequently ratified by the tribe. In that act the Commission was authorized to investigate the subject, and
its action when approved by the Secretary of the Interior
was declared to be final. There was thus constituted a
quasi-judicial tribunal whose judgments within the limits
of its jurisdiction were only subject to attack for fraud
or such mistake of law or fact as would justify the holding
that its judgments were voidable. Congress by this legislation evidenced an intention to put an end to controversy
by providing a tribunal before which those interested
could be heard and the rolls authoritatively made up
of those who were entitled to participate in the partition
of the tribal lands. It was to the interest of all concerned
that the beneficiaries of this division should be ascertained. To this end the Commission was established
and endowed with authority to hear and determine the
matter.
A correct conclusion was not necessary to the finality
and binding character of its decisions. It may be that
the Commission in acting upon the many cases before it
made mistakes which are now impossible of correction.
This might easily be so, for the Commission passed upon
the rights of thousands claiming membership in the tribe
and ascertained the rights of others who did not appear
before it, upon the merits of whose standing the Commis-

UNITED STATES v. WILDCAT.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

sion had to pass with the best information which it could
obtain.
When the Commission proceeded in good faith to determine the matter and to act upon information before it, not
arbitrarily, but according to its best judgment, we think
it was the intention of the act that the matter, upon the
approval of the Secretary, should be finally concluded and
the rights of the parties forever settled, subject to such
attacks as could successfully be made upon judgments
of this character for fraud or mistake.
We cannot agree that the case is within the principles decided in Scott v. McNeal, 154 U. S. 34, and kindred cases,
in which it has been held that in the absence of a subjectmatter of jurisdiction an adjudication that there was such
is not conclusive, and that a judgment based upon action
without its proper subject being in existence is void. In
Scott v. McNeal it was held that a probate court had no
jurisdiction to appoint an administrator of a livng person
and to sell property in administration proceedings after
finding that he was in fact dead. In that case it was held
that a sale of the property of a living person by order of
the probate court without notice to him necessarily deprived him of due process of law by selling his property
without notice and by order of a court which had no
jurisdiction over him in any manner. The notice in such
cases to his next of kin, the court held, was not notice to
him, and to make an order undertaking to deprive such
person of his property would be to take it by a judgment
to which the living person was not a party or privy; and
it was held that jurisdiction did not arise from the mere
finding of the court that the person whose property was
thus taken was in fact deceased. In the present case the
Government had jurisdiction over these lands. It had the
authority to partition them among the members of the
tribe. Shulthis v. McDougal, 170 Fed. Rep. 529, 534;
McDougal v. McKay, 237 U. S. 372, 383.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.

Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S

For this purpose it determined to divide the lands among
those living on April 1, 1899, and constituted a tribunal
to investigate the question of membership and consequent
right to share in the division. We think the decision of
such tribunal, when not impeached for fraud or mistake,
conclusive of the question of membership in the tribe,
when followed, as was the case here, by the action of the
Interior Department confirming the allotment and ordering the patents conveying the lands, which were in fact
issued. If decisions of this character may be subject to
annulment in the manner in which the Government seeks
to attack and set aside this one, many titles supposed to
be secure would be divested many years after patents
issued, upon showing that the decision was a mistaken one.
The rule is that such decisions are presumably based upon
proper showing, and that they must stand until overcome
by full and convincing proof sufficient within the recognized principles of equity jurisdiction in cases of this character to invalidate them. Maxwell Land-Grant Case, 121
U. S. 325, 379, 381; Colorado Coal & Iron Co. v. United
States, 123 U. S. 307.
As to the second contention, that the Commission acted
arbitrarily and without evidence of the fact that Thlocco
was living on April 1, 1899, there is no attack upon the
finding of the Commission for fraud, and this record shows
an earnest attempt to conform the rolls to the requirements of the law.
Thlocco's name appeared on the Tribal Rolls of 1890
and 1895 and on a census card made by a clerk of the
Commission in 1897.
An enrolling clerk with the Dawes Commission testified
that he entered the name of Barney Thlocco upon the
census card on May 24, 1901; that at that time there were
a great many names on the old rolls unaccounted for, and
the party went to Okmulgee to get them to come out and
get them enrolled; that a great many were brought in;

UNITED STATES v. WILDCAT.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that Thlocco was one of those who were unaccounted
for at that time, and the witness 'could not say whether
his name was taken from the old census roll or whether
someone appeared and asked for his enrollment; that
after Thlocco's name was listed there was some investigation upon the question as to whether or not he was living
or dead on April 1, 1899, but the Commission would have
to be satisfied or have information of some kind that he
was living on that date; that the Commission knew that
Thlocco was dead in 1901 and it apparently was satisfied
that he was living on April 1, 1899; that they would ask
town kings and town warriors when they came in and
anybody else if they knew this or that about the applicants; that because of a discrepancy between the ages of
Thlocco on the census cards they must have had some
information other than the old census card; that the invariable custom and practice was never to fill out one of
the cards until they had some information from some
source with reference to the question as to whether the
applicant was living or whether he had died prior to
April 1, 1899; that the Commission never arbitrarily
listed any name; that no name was listed solely, because
it was on the Roll of 1895, but some particular individual
evidence was required outside of that roll; that before
the new rolls were sent to Washington the clerks and the
chairman of the Commission would get together and go
over every one of them.
The clerk who made out the census card in 1897 testified that as Chief Clerk of the Commission he helped in
the enrollment; that a notation on the census card "died
in 1900" was in his handwriting, but that he did not know
who had given him the information or what use was made
of the notation, except that it was intended that when the
Commission came to pass on that name for final record
on the roll an inquiry should be made as to when Thlocco
died or whether he was dead and get the proper affidavit

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.

Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

and death proof; that the Commission did not arbitrarily
enroll any Creek citizen without evidence, and that in
every single case if the applicant did not appear some -one
who was regarded as reliable appeared for him and gave
evidence until the Commissioner was satisfied that he
belonged on the roll; that whenever any question was
raised by the Creek Nation or its attorney with reference
to the right to enrollment, or for any reason as to whether
the applicant was living or dead, there was generally
testimony taken in those cases; that with reference to
those people whose names up to March, 1901, had not
been accounted for, there were lists of these made and
sent to the various town kings and various inquiries were
made that way and report came back; that sometimes the
party addressed came in and gave verbal testimony, and
if it seemed clear to the Commission it' was probably not
reduced to writing; that if there was any question with
reference to the matter it probably was reduced to writing;
that the Commission had to be satisfied from the records;
that the Commission never passed upon a card until it
was completed; that the information may have been
picked up piecemeal over a year or two, but the Commissior was satisfied that the party was entitled to enrollment, and the records were made up for the purpose of
the information of the Commission and to show such information as was necessary to enable the Commission to
reach a decision.
One of the enrolling clerks at Okmulgee testified that
if information was present that a name was entitled to
go on the rolls, the roll was completed at Okmulgee; that
if the Commission did not have this information they
did not complete it; that the fact that Barney Thlocco's
card was completed at Okmulgee indicated that the party
who wrote the card was satisfied that Thlocco was living
on April 1, 1899, and satisfied from evidence; that there
was in all cases some evidence as to whether the citizen

UNITED STATES v. WILDCAT.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

was living or dead on April 1, 1899, before the rolls were
recommended to the Secretary of the Interior.
The Acting Chairman of the Dawes Commission testified that they did not to his knowledge ever enroll any
man without taking some evidence, information, or eliciting knowledge from some source other than the tribal
rolls that he was entitled to be enrolled, and it was never
permitted to be done; that the purpose was to find out
whether a man was entitled to enrollment and one of the
factors in that determination was whether he died prior
or subsequent to April 1, 1899; that he always ascertained
that fact before he enrolled the applicant and always satisfied his mind on that subject by evidence outside of the
roll; that every name sent into the Department of the
Interior as a name to be enrolled and which had been
enrolled as a member of the Creek Tribe had been investigated by some member of the Commission at some
place and by evidence outside of the rolls and a determination had been reached that that person was entitled to
enrollment; that he undoubtedly satisfied himself from
an examination of Thlocco's card whether Thlocco was
living on April 1, 1899; that in securing information the
Commission had the assistance of the best men in the
tribes as well as its own field parties; that when he would
take the card he would have the card and the clerk would
have the schedule, and he went over it several times with
clerks and would find out from the clerk all the information the clerk had with reference to that card several times.
It is true, as set forth in the certificate upon which this
case was originally sent here, in view of § 28 of the original
Creek Agreement, providing that no person except as
therein provided should be added to the rolls of citizenship of the tribe after the date of the agreement, and no
person whomsoever should be added to the rolls after
the ratification of the agreement, which was ratified on
May 25, 1901, that the tribe assembled at Okmulgee,

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.

Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

its capital, some days before that date, for the purpose of
considering and acting upon the agreement, and that
there was great activity some time before the ratification
upon the part of the Dawes Commission and its officers
and clerks to complete the enrollment of the tribe; and
it is shown that Thlocco's enrollment card was made out
at Okmulgee on the twenty-fourth day of May, 1901,the last day before the ratification of the agreement. It
is also true that in the testimony as adduced in this record,
there was, as naturally would be the case, a lack of recollection as to the details which attended the enrollment of
Thlocco. But there is evidence to which we have already
alluded, showing the practice of the Commission to make
inquiries and investigations and to ascertain the facts
as to the persons enrolled, and that no person was enrolled
without information that was deemed satisfactory at that
time. The Commission had before it the tribal rolls of
1890 and 1895. The latter roll was made out some six
years before the action of the Commission, and in the
absence of proof of Thlocco's death or some circumstances
to give rise to the conclusion that he was not still living,
the Commission might well indulge the presumption that
he was still alive. Fidelity Mutual Life Assn. v. Mettler,
185 U. S. 308, 316.
It is true. that the methods followed by the Commission
may not have been the most satisfactory possible of determining who were entitled to enrollment as living persons
on April 1, '1899, but it must be remembered that there
were many persons whose right to enrollment was being
considered, and the Commission in good faith made an
honest endeavor to keep the names of persons off the
rolls who were not entitled to appear as members of the
tribe upon the date fixed by Congress. We think the
testimony very far from showing such arbitrary action
on the part of the Commission in placing Thlocco's name
on the rolls as would establish that mistake of law or fact

UNITED STATES v. WILDCAT.

244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

which is essential to the impeachment of the action of the
Commission. This action was brought fourteen years
after the enrollment of Thlocco and the allotment to him
based on such enrollment should not be disturbed except
for good and sufficient reasons.
It is not contended by the Government that the subsequent action of the Secretary in striking Thlocco's
name from the rolls had the legal effect to accomplish
that purpose. Such is the contention of the intervenors.
The testimony shows that Thlocco was enrolled by the
Commission on May 24, 1901, that the allotment was
made and the certificate therefor issued on June 30, 1902,
and that patents were recorded in the office of the Commission on April 11, 1903, the allotment certificate issued in
the name of Thlocco. On August 25, 1904, the Commission transmitted to the Secretary of the Interior a communication from the Creek attorney in the nature of a motion
to re-open the matter. On September 16, 1904, the Secretary of the Interior ordered further investigation, and
directed that notice be given to the heirs of Thlocco of the
hearing. The heirs of Thlocco were not found, and no
notice was given them of the proposed hearing. On
October 10, 1906, the Commission reported that the testimony showed that Thlocco died before April 1, 1899,
and recommended that his name be stricken from the roll.
On December 13, 1906, the Secretary directed that
Thlocco's name be stricken from the roll, and requested
the Attorney General to take action to set aside the allotment deeds. We think this action entirely ineffectual
to annul the previous action of the Government in placing
Thlocco's name upon the roll and issuing in his name the
certificate and patents as we have stated. Such action
could not be legally taken without notice to the heirs,
and was void and of no effect. Garfield v. United States
ex rel. Goldsby, 211 U. S. 249; Knapp v. Alexander-Edgar
Lumber Co., 237 U. S. 162, 169. In Lowe v. Fisher, 223

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

U. S. 95, the Secretary of the Interior in striking names
from the roll of Cherokee citizens acted after notice and
opportunity to be heard.
The fact that ThIocco was dead at the time deeds were
issued in his name would not prevent the title from vesting
in his heirs. Section 28 of the Act of March 1, 1901, 31
Stat. 861, 870, provides that "if any such citizen has
died since that time [April 1, 1899,] or may hereafter die,
before receiving his allotment of lands and distributive
share of all the funds of the tribe, the lands and money
to which he would be entitled, if living, shall descend to
his heirs according to the laws of descent and distribution
of the Creek Nation, and be allotted and distributed to
them accordingly." The effect of this provision is to vest
title in the heirs by operation of law. Skelton v. Dill,
235 U. S. 206, 207, 208.
As to the contention that the lands were not selected by
Thlocco, and that he was one of those arbitrarily placed
upon the rolls, we think it was within the authority of the
Commission to enroll members of the tribe who for any
reason refused to make selections; for the statute (§ 3, 31
Stat. 861, 862) provides that "all lands of the said tribe,
except as herein provided, shall be allotted among the
citizens of the tribe by said commission so as to give each
an equal share of the whole in value, as nearly as may be,
in the manner following: There shall be allotted to each
citizen one hundred and sixty acres of land-boundaries
to conform to the Government survey-which may be
selected by him so as to include improvements which
belong to him." While citizens were thus permitted to
make their selections for the purpose of retaining improvements, it seems clear that in case any citizen failed to avail
himself of this right it was permissible for the Commission
to make the allotment.
We think the District Court rightly ruled that the
Government had not offered evidence competent to im-

YANKAUS v. FELTENSTEIN.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

244 U. S.

peach the validity of the Commissions action and thus
to invalidate the title subsequently conveyed by the patent
to Thlocco with the approval of the Interior Department.
It follows that the decree of the District Court, dismissing the bill, should be
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

took no part in the. con-

sideration or decision of this case.

YANKAUS v. FELTENSTEIN ET AL.
ERROR TO THE CITY COURT OF NEW YORK CITY, STATE OF
NEW YORK.
No. 407.

Argued April 10, 1917.-Decided May 21, 1917.

The rule that an order of the District Court remanding a cause is conclusive of the right to remove (Jud. Code, § 28) and cannot be reviewed on writ of error to a subsequent judgment of the state court,
applies also when the final judgment of the state court is rendered
after the attempted removal and before the order of remand, if when
the judgment is rendered the District Court has not assumed jurisdiction and assumes none later beyond enjoining further proceedings
until the motion to remand may be decided.
Conduct of the plaintiffs in respect of proceedings in the state courts
and District Court held not to have estopped them from contesting
the jurisdiction of the latter after attempted removal, or to have
waived their right to the conclusive effect of the order of remand.
Affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Jesse C. Adkins, with whom Mr. Roger Foster and

Mr. Frank J. Felbel were on the briefs, for plaintiff in error.

