YANKAUS v. FELTENSTEIN.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

244 U. S.

peach the validity of the Commissions action and thus
to invalidate the title subsequently conveyed by the patent
to Thlocco with the approval of the Interior Department.
It follows that the decree of the District Court, dismissing the bill, should be
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

took no part in the. con-

sideration or decision of this case.

YANKAUS v. FELTENSTEIN ET AL.
ERROR TO THE CITY COURT OF NEW YORK CITY, STATE OF
NEW YORK.
No. 407.

Argued April 10, 1917.-Decided May 21, 1917.

The rule that an order of the District Court remanding a cause is conclusive of the right to remove (Jud. Code, ยง 28) and cannot be reviewed on writ of error to a subsequent judgment of the state court,
applies also when the final judgment of the state court is rendered
after the attempted removal and before the order of remand, if when
the judgment is rendered the District Court has not assumed jurisdiction and assumes none later beyond enjoining further proceedings
until the motion to remand may be decided.
Conduct of the plaintiffs in respect of proceedings in the state courts
and District Court held not to have estopped them from contesting
the jurisdiction of the latter after attempted removal, or to have
waived their right to the conclusive effect of the order of remand.
Affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Jesse C. Adkins, with whom Mr. Roger Foster and

Mr. Frank J. Felbel were on the briefs, for plaintiff in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

Mr. Jacob W.. Hartman for defendants in error, submitted.
MR. JUSTICE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error, bringing into review a judgment
of the City Court of the City of New York and an order
of that court denying a motion to set aside this judgment,
and an order of the Appellate Term of the Supreme Court
of the State of New York, which affirmed the order and
judgment.
The action was brought in the City Court by Feltenstein and Rosenstein, hereinafter called the plaintiffs, to
recover a contingent counsel fee of $500 from Yankaus,
hereinafter called the defendant, and for loans of $200 and
$100 respectively, in all the sum of $800. Summons and
complaint were served on October 11, 1915. On October
16, 1915, the defendant filed in the office of the clerk of the
City Court petition and bond for the removal of the cause
to the United States District Court for the Southern
District of New YOrk. The bond was approved by a
judge of the City 'Court. Notice of the intention to file
petition and bond was served on the plaintiffs on October
15, 1915. The ground for removal was diversity of citizenship, and it was averred that the petitioner had a counterclaim exceeding the sum of $3,000, exclusive of interest
and costs, and that therefore the matter and amount in
dispute in the case exceeded that sum. On October 20,
1915, a certified copy of the record was filed in the office
of the clerk of the United States District Court for the
Southern District of New York, and an answer was filed
setting up the invalidity of the agreements upon which
plaintiffs' cause of action was based and asserting a counterclaim.
On October 16, 1915, plaintiffs moved in the City Court
for an order setting aside the bond and the removal of the

YANKAUS v. FELTENSTEIN.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

cause to the United States District Court 'and directing
that the City Court retain jurisdiction.

This motion

came on to be heard before a judge of the City Court on
October 20, 1915, and resulted in an order setting aside
the removal and determining that the action was not
entitled to be removed. This decision was made upon
the basis that the counterclaim could not be considered
in determining the amount in dispute, in so far as to give
the federal court jurisdiction. Judgment was entered on
October 26, 1915, for plaintiffs. From this order and
judgment appeal was taken to the Supreme Court, Appellate Term. Thereupon, -the defendant moved in the
United States District Court for the Southern District
of New York for an order restraining the plaintiffs from
proceeding to the enforcement of the judgment. The
matter was heard before Judge Lacombe, sitting as District Judge, and on November 4, 1915, he issued an order
restraining the plaintiffs until further order made on
proper notice and motion to remand from in any way proceeding with or prosecuting their cause, of action in the
City Court or from collecting anything under an judgment entered therein. Subsequently plaintiffs moved in
the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York for an order remanding the case to the
state court. This motion came on for hearing before
Judge Hough, who granted the motion to remand and
an order remanding the cause to the City Court was made
on the fifteenth day of November, 1915. The defendant
afterward moved in the City Court to set aside the judgment rendered while it was alleged the suit was pending
in the United States court, which motion was denied.
Appeal was thereupon taken to the Supreme Court,
Appellate Term, and the judgment and the order setting
aside the removal and declaring that the case was still
in the City Court were both affirmed. Motion was made
by the plaintiffs to -dismiss the appeal upon the ground

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

that the order denying the defendant's motion to vacate
the judgment had become academic by the affirmance
of the order setting aside the removal. The appeal was
dismissed by the Appellate Term. Defendant thereupon
applied to the Appellate Term for leave to appeal to the
Appellate Division from the order affirming the order of
the City Court, setting aside the removal of the action,
and from the judgment entered by the plaintiffs while the
action was in the federal court, and also from the dismissal
of the appeal from the order refusing to vacate this judgment. Both motions were denied. Defendant then
applied to a Justice of the Appellate Division, First Department, for an order permitting him to take appeals,
and these applications were denied. In these applications
the defendant set forth that he had been denied rights
asserted by him under the Constitution and statutes of
the United States. Afterwards a writ of error was allowed
from this court.
As we view this case, we think the judgment of the court
below must be affirmed, as this proceeding is practically
an attempt to review an order remanding a cause attempted to be removed to the District Court of the United
States. Section 28 of the Judicial Code provides that
"whenever any cause shall be removed from any State
court into any district court of the United States, and the
district court shall decide that the cause was improperly
removed, and order the same to be remanded to the State
court from whence it came, such remand shall be immediately carried into execution, and no appeal or writ of
error from the decision of the district court so remanding
such cause shall be allowed." .After the filing of the transcript in the United States District Court the matter
came on for hearing before Judge Lacombe, and it was
ordered that until the further order of the court the plaintiff should be enjoined and restrained from proceeding
in the City Court, or from collecting in any manner any

YANKAUS v. FELTENSTEIN.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

judgment entered therein. Accompanying this order
Judge Lacombe wrote the f6llowing memorandum:
"Jurisdiction is too doubtful to warrant this court in
retaining the cause. Crane Co. v. Guanica Centrale, 132
Fed. Rep. 713. Plaintiff's proper course would have been
to make a motion to remand. This he may now do. When
such motion is made and granted the cause may proceed
there; it is now here. Plaintiffs in the meanwhile may be
enjoined (until remand is made) from proceeding further
in the State Court."
We think the effect of this order, read in the light of the
opinion, simply manifested. the purpose of the court to
prevent proceedings while the question of the jurisdiction
of the United States court was pending, and did not
amount to a decision that that court had jurisdiction.
It is true that an order of injunction was granted; but it is
apparent from a reading of Judge Lacombe's memorandum that his purpose was merely to enable the District
Court to hold the case until it decided the question of its
jurisdiction. Afterwards the motion came up in the
United States District Court, in which an opinion was
delivered by Judge Hough, wherein he said:
"When this matter was argued the record on removal
was not in court. If it had been the motion would not
have been held until now. The opinion of Judge Lacombe
in Crane Co. v. Guanica Centrale, 132 Fed. Rep. 713,
merely states what for many previous years had been the
practice of this Court,--i. e. doubtful cases were always
remanded.
"Rulings of this nature are admittedly unsatisfactory.
Counsel and parties are entitled to a clear-cut statement
of the law if it is possible to make one;-and it would
seem as if the removal acts were sufficiently old by this
time to enable a court to select what appeared to be the
best of conflicting rules.
"Since no case (irrespective of amount involved) can

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

be removed over which the United States Court might
not have had original jurisdiction, it has always seemed
to me illogical to consider a counterclaim in ascertaining
the propriety of removal or remand.
"In the State of New York there is no compulsion on a
defendant to set up a counterclaim. It is always optional
with the party possessing it to reserve his affirmative
demand for an independent suit.
"Imagine this action brought originally in this Court;
the defendant would only have been obliged to appear and
move on the pleadings to dismiss the complaint without
prejudice. Such a motion would have been granted as
of course.
"Thus it appears that an action of the most trifling
nature may (under defendant's contention) be removed
to this Court at the option of defendant if he can assert
a counterclaim of sufficient size. That this was never the
intent of the statute I am clear. Considering, however, the
confusion of decisions and (so far as I know) the failure
of late years to observe the difference between the Act
of. 1875 and that of 1888, I should have felt impelled to
consider and classify decisions were it not for the consideration next to be stated. If it be true that by a preponderance of rulings the affirmative claims set up in
an answer are to be considered in determining jurisdiction, it is at least necessary that someWhere and in some
shape the defendant who sets up counterclaims shall
plead them in a manner which enables his opponent to
critfcise them, modify them or expunge them as may be
proper under the rules of good pleading.
"In this case,-and in any similar case under the Act
of 1888 there is no answer. The only knowledge that to
this moment plaintiff has regarding defendant's counterclaim is contained in the petition for removal,-the language of which petition sets forth no reason whatever for
the recovery by the defendant from the plaintiff of any

YANKAUS v. FELTENSTEIN.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

sum of money at all. The petition says in substance that
the defendant has a counterclaim, without stating what
it is. Whatever may be the preferred rule, when in a
proper and formal manner the amount in controversy
between the parties is made to appear and shown toexceed $3,000 exclusive of interest and costs ;-I feel
justified in holding, and do hold, that it is impossible to
show that such controversial amount exists in any such
manner as this defendant has attempted."
For the reasons stated, the case was remanded to the
City Court. We think these orders, with the accompanying memoranda and opinion, taken together, show that
the District Court denied its jurisdiction, and remanded
the cause to the City Court. In this attitude of the case,
the judgment of the state court must stand, as the effect
of the orders of the District Court was to hold the attempted removal unauthorized. This court has more
than once held that such an order is not subject to review,
directly or indirectly, but is final and conclusive. Missouri
Pacific Ry. Co. v. Fitzgerald, 160 U. S. 556, 580-583;
McLaughlin Brothers v. Hallowell, 228 U. S. 278, 286;
Pacific Live Stock Co. v. Oregon Water Board, 241 U. S.
440, 447.
Nor are we able to find anything in the conduct of the
plaintiffs estopping them from contesting the jurisdiction of the federal court, or amounting to a waiver of their
right to the benefit of the judgment remanding the case
from the District Court.
It follows that the judgment of the City Court of the
City of New York must be
Affirmed.
MR.JUSTICE PITNEY

concurs in the result.

