OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

244 U. S.

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY v. GREENE, AUDITOR OF PUBLIC ACCOUNTS, ET AL., INDIVIDUALLY AND AS CONSTITUTING THE BOARD OF VALUATION AND
ASSESSMENT OF THE STATE OF KENTUCKY,
ET AL.
GREENE, AUDITOR OF PUBLIC ACCOUNTS, ET
AL., INDIVIDUALLY AND AS CONSTITUTING
THE BOARD OF VALUATION AND ASSESSMENT
OF THE STATE OF KENTUCKY, ET AL. v.LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.

Nos. 778, 779. Argued January 16, 17, 18, 1917.-Decided June 11, 1917.
Greene v. Louisville & Interurban R. R. Co., ante, 499, followed in
holding: (1). That the federal court has power to decide all questions,
its jurisdiction being properly invoked on federal grounds, (2) that
this suit, to restrain subordinate state officers from enforcing an unlawful and discriminatory assessment made under color of a valid
state law, is not a suit against the State, (3) that plaintiff has not
an adequate remedy at law under § 162, Ky. Stats., (4) that unlawful discrimination in taxation resulting from general, systematic
undervaluations of other property is remediable by the courts, and
(5) that whether such an assessment violates the "equal protection"
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment need not be decided by the
federal court when full relief is grantable under the state constitution and laws.
The right to relief by injunction against unlawful discrimination by
taxing officials exists in respect of state, as well as local, taxes; if
what was said in Coulter v. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co., 196 U. S.
599, 608, imports that an injunction can under no circumstances be
awarded with respect to state taxes, it must be deemed to have
been overruled by Raymond v. Chicago Union Traction Co., 207
U. S. 20.

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. CO. v. GREENE.
244 U. S.

Syllabus.

Proof comprising a body of official admissions and direct and circumstantial evidence from unimpeached public, and private sources,
and which fully sustains a finding that the great mass of property
in Kentucky, embracing all tangible property except railroad property and distilled spirits--during a period of years-was systematically and notoriously assessed at not exceeding 60 per cent. of its
fair cash value, Held not overcome by general presumptions arising
from the duty of assessors to assess at fair cash value, or by numerous
stereotyped affidavits of former assessors asseverating their obedience
thereunto.
The findings of an official body such as the Kentucky Board of Valuation and Assessment, made after a hearing and upon notice'to the
taxpayer, are quasi-judicial and, in the absence of fraud, are not to
be set aside or disregarded by courts unless it is made to appear that
the body proceeded upon an erroneous principle, or adopted an improper mode of estimating value.
Under the Kentucky law respecting the taxation of the intangible
property of railroad and other public service corporations (§§ 40774081, Ky. Stats.), the particular method to be pursued by the
Board of Valuation and Assessment in ascertaining from the evidence the value of the "capital stock" (i. e., the entire tangible and
intangible property) of a railroad system, partly within and partly
outside of the State, is left to the sound discretion of the Board.
In estimating the value of plaintiff's "capital stock," the Kentucky
Board of Valuation and Assessment capitalized the plaintiff's income upon a 6 per cent. basis and, in excluding shares held by plaintiff in other corporations owning and paying taxes on property in
Kentucky, it estimated their value in the same way, i. e., by capitalizing on a 6 per cent. basis the income derived therefrom. Held:
(1) That this method of valuing the shares could not be held fundamentally wrong, although there was evidence that their intrinsic
value was much greater than the estimate thus obtained. (2) That
the adoption of the 6 per cent. rate instead of a higher, "composite"
rate, based on the mileage of plaintiff's railroad in each of thirteen
States and the -legal rates of interest in those States, respectively,
was likewise a matter for the judgment of the Board.
Section 4081, Ky. Stats., as amended by the Act of June 9, 1893, in
providing that the ratio of intrastate to total mileage of any inferstate railroad "shall be considered" by the Board of Valuation and
Assessment in fixing the value of its corporate franchise (intangible
property) liable to taxation in the State, does not require the Board
to apportion the value of the railroad's property upon a strict mileage

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

244 U. S.

basis, but merely to consider relative mileage, among other pertinent factors, in the process of valuing that proportion of the property which is situate within the State.
Section 4081, supra, applies to both foreign and domestic corporations,
and is not to be construed as requiring the taxation of tangible
assetq outside of the State, which, clearly as to foreign corporations,
would render it obnoxious to the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Under § 4081, supra, the apportionment of "capital stock" to Kentucky is first made upon a mileage basis (with such allowances as
may be required because of unequal distribution of tangible property within and without the State), and the value of the tangible
property in the State is then subtracted and the tax computed on
the difference, representing the intangible property in Kentucky.
Total assets, situate partly within and partly without a State, but
organically related, may be taken into consideration as a means of
reaching the true cash value of the part within the State, and in the
case of a railroad, the mileage factor may be given its proper weight.
Section 4081, supra, requires the Board to take into consideration not
only the mileage -operated, but also the mileage controlled, by the
railroad company within and without the State.
Under §§ 4079, 4081, supra, in determining the percentage apportionable to Kentucky, the whole of the controlled mileage within and
without the State is to be treated as part of the aggregate "capital
stock," not only in fixirg the mileage, but also in fixing the valuation,
upon which the apportionment is based.
To avoid double assessments, the value of so much of the controlled
mileage as is within Kentucky, and therefore separately assessed in
that State, should be deducted (in addition to the value of the tangible property there situate), from the Kentucky apportionment of
the "capital stock."
A supplemental bill, filed, after hearing and decision, by permission of
the court but apparently disregarded, is not to be taken as confessed
by the defendant for want of answer, when no rule to answer was
made upon him and his failure to do so is not explained by the record;
nor, in the silence of the record, is error to be imputed to the trial
court for not paying heed to material allegations thus presented.
A party attacking a tax assessment is not to be held in default for
omission to introduce evidence on matters which were not deemed
material by the taxing authority or in the litigation until found so
by the judge in his decision.
It being shown that the valuation made by a taxing board was the

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. CO. v. GREENE.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

result of following a method substantially erroneous because not
in accordance with the governing statute, it is error for the court
to presume that a like valuation would have been reached by following the correct method.
230 Fed. Rep. 191, reversed in part and affirmed in part.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Helm Bruce, with whom Mr. Henry L. Stone, Mr.
William A. Colston and Mr. Edward S. Jouett were on the
briefs, for the Louisville & Nashville Railroad Company.
Mr. Charles Carroll, Mr. Marvel M. Logan, Attorney
General of the State of Kentucky, and Mr. John L. Rich,
with whom Mr. Charles H. Morris, Assistant Attorney
General of the State of Kentucky, was on the briefs,jor
Greene et al.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
These cases are an appeal and a cross-appeal from a
final decree of the District Court in a suit that was
commenced by the Louisville & Nashville Railroad Company, a Kentucky corporation, against Henry M. Bosworth and others, then constituting the Board of Valuation and Assessment of that State (Bosworth being also
Auditor of Public Accounts), and against the Attorney
General of the State and his assistants, seeking to restrain
the taking of any steps toward enforcing state and local
taxes upon the basis of an-assessment of the '.'franchise"
of the compaily for the year 1913 made by the Board
of Valuation and Assessment at the sum of $45,658,630, or
upon the basis of any greater valuation than $22,899,200;
and this upon the ground that the assessment was unlawful and not in accordance with the statute, was the
result of an abuse of power by the Board of Valuation
and Assessment, and if enforced would result in a taking

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

of plaintiff's property without due process of law and a
denial of the equal protection of the laws, contrary to
§ 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment. By a supplemental
bill, Robert L. Greene and others were brought in as
successors in office of the original defendants. There
being no diversity of citizenship, the jurisdiction was
rested upon the ground that the suits arose under the
cited provisions of the Federal Constitution; but plaintiff
relied also upon the provisions of the constitution and
laws of the State. A chief ground of complaint, based
upon the equal protection provision of the Fourteenth
Amendment, and also upon the requirement of equal
taxation prescribed by §§ 171, 172, and 174 of the state
constitution,' was that the plaintiff had been subjected to
illegal discrimination, in that its property had been
assessed at more than its actual value, whereas the property of all other taxpayers in the State was assessed uniformly and intentionally at much less than actual value,
in fact at not exceeding 60 per, cent. thereof. It was
alleged, besides, that the method of assessment followed
by the Board of Valuation was inconsistent with the provisions of the statutes of Kentucky, and for that further
reason the assessment was illegal.
A previous suit of the same character had been brought
by the same plaintiff in the same court for relief against
the assessment for the year 1912, in which, after a hearing
on motion for preliminary injunction and demurrer to the
bill, the court delivered a very elaborate opinion, allowing
a temporary injunction upon condition that plaintiff
should pay franchise taxes to the State and subordinate
taxing districts upon a valuation of $22,899,200.

Louis-

ville & N. R. Co. v. Bosworth, 209 Fed. Rep. 380, 465.
Following this precedent, the court, upon the filing of
1

Set forth in full in the opinion in Greene v. Louisvile & Interurban

R. R. Co., ante, p. 499.

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. CO. v. GREENE.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the bill in the present case, allowed a preliminary injunction upon the payment of taxes based upon the same valuati'on. The cause proceeded to final hearing, and the court,
having found plaintiff to have been subjected to discrimination by the valuing of other property at approximately
60 per cent. of actual values, but having overruled the
other grounds of relief asserted, applied an equalizing
factor to the valuation of plaintiff's franchise, with the
result of finding $25,808,493.60 to be the amount at which
it was legally taxable, or $2,909,293.60 in excess of the
amount upon which payment was made at the inception
of the suit. Therefore a final decree was made enjoining
defendants from enforcing the assessment complained
of, on condition that plaintiff should pay taxes, state and
local, on the excess amount named. 230 Fed. Rep. 191,
232.
Plaintiff appealed to this court upon the ground that it
ought not to be required to pay franchise taxes upon any
amount in excess of $22,899,200. Defendants took a cross
appeal upon the ground that plaintiff was entitled to no
relief. The cases were argued together with kindred cases
this day decided, viz., Nos. 617 and 618, Greene v. Louisville & InterurbanR. R. Co., ante, 499, and Nos. 642-645,
Illinois Central R. R. Co. v. Greene, post, 555.
There are numerous assignments of error by each party,
but, without specifying these, the questions raised will be
disp6sed of in the order of convenience. Of course, the
federal jurisdiction, having been invoked upon substantial
grounds of federal law, extends to the determination of all
questions involved in the case, whether resting upon state
or federal law. Siler v. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co.,
213 U. S. 175, 191; Ohio Tax Cases, 232 U. S. 576, 586.
It may be premised that plaintiff owns and operates a
great system of railroads extending throughout Kentucky
and twelve other States, embracing (in the year in question) roads operated on its own account to the extent of

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

4,478.61 miles, of which 1,574.47 miles, or 35.15 per cent.,
were in Kentucky, and an aggregate of roads owned,
operated, and controlled, extending to 7,907.83 mile's,
of which 1,952.45 miles, or 24.69 per cent., were in Kentucky. It is subject to taxation in Kentucky upon its
tangible property as assessed by the State Railroad Commission, and, in addition, to taxation state and local upon
its intangible property or "franchise" under § 4077, Ky.
Stats., and succeeding sections (set forth below in the
margin), the valuation to be fixed by the Board of Valuation and Assessment.
(1) Defendants contend that the District Court was
without jurisdiction because the suit was in effect a suit
against the State of Kentucky. It is said that the sole
basis of a suit to enjoin state officers from the performance
of duties pursuant to a statute must be that the statute
itself is unconstitutional; that, since the statute in question here is constitutional, an action may not be maintained
in a court of the United States (there being no diversity
of citizenship) for what is done by subordinate officers of
the State in executing' the statute in an unconstitutional
manner; and that for misconduct of this sort there is no
remedy except in the state courts. These contentions are
disposed of adversely in Greene v. Louisville & Interurban
R. R. Co., ante, 499.
(2) It is contended that the plaintiff has an adequate
remedy at law under § 162, Ky. Stats. This likewise is
negatived by the case just mentioned.
(3) It is urged that, although it be true that the local
assessors in each county assessed other property at less
than its cash value, plaintiff is not entitled to relief for
this reason if its property was not assessed at more than
its fair cash value, even though it was assessed at a higher
percentage than other property. To this the same answer
may 5e made. The facts found in this case bring it within
the ruling that, in the case last mentioned, was made upon

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. CO. v. GREENE.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

admitted facts, because of the provisions of the constitution and laws of the State. In this case, as in that, we
find it unnecessary to pass upon the merits of the question whether a like result would be reached by the application of the "equal protection" clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment.
(4) It is contended that although there be jurisdiction
to enjoin the apportioning of the assessment among the
counties, cities, and towns for the purpose of local taxation, it was erroneous to enjoin state taxation based upon
the same assessment. So far as this is bottomed upon the
theory that the suit is a suit against the State, it is disposed of by the decision cited. It is argued, however, that
while this court has held that in a proper case a bill may
be brought to restrain apportionment and certification
to the counties of a tax imposed by a state board in violation of federal rights (Fargo v. Hart, 193 U. S. 490), yet
Coulter v. Weir, 127 Fed. Rep. 897, 906, 912-a case that
arose out of the same provisions of the Kentucky statutes that are here involved-is an authority in opposition
to granting relief against the state taxes, and that it was
approved by this court in Coulter v. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co., 196 U. S. 599, 608. What was said upon
the subject in the case last mentioned was not a part of
the matter decided, as a reference to the opinion clearly
shows; for the decision in favor of defendants proceeded
upon the ground that the evidence was insufficient to
sustain the bill. Coulter v. Weir, supra, is easily distinguishable. There,. the Auditor of Public Accounts was the
sole defendant. The Circuit Court of Appeals, after citing
Poindexter v. Greenhow, 114 U. S. 270, 286-288; Reagan
v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 154 U. S. 362, 390; Scott
v. Donald, 165 U. S. 107, 112; Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S.
466, 518; Fitts v. McGhee, 172 U. S. 516, 529; and Taylor
v. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co., 88 Fed. Rep. 350, and
quoting from the opinion in the Taylor Case to the effect

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

that a suit against individuals seeking to enjoin them from
doing certain acts which they assert to be by authority
of the State, but which complainants aver to be without
lawful authority, is not a suit against the State, and from
Fitts v. McGhee to the effect that a suit against state officers not holding any special relation to the particular
statute alleged to be unconstitutional nor charged with
its enforcement, is a suit merely to test the constitutionality of a state statute and therefore is a suit against the
State, proceeded (p. 906) to sustain the action only so far
as it sought to enjoin the defendant from certifying to the
county clerks the assessment complained of. The contrary result reached with respect to the tax due to the
State went solely upon the ground that as to this tax the
Auditor had no act to perform under the statute and no
authority to enforce collection; the court proceeding to
say further (p. 907): "If the defendant had been about
to take some step under color of the law tending to complete the assessment, or if he had been authorized to seize
property and was about to do so, then he was, assuming
the case to be with the complainants on the merits, about
to commit a trespass for which he would be individually
liable, and in a proper case equity might enjoin his proposed action upon the ground of his want of legal authority. But this is not the case made in respect to the tax
due the state, and the bill, so far as it sought relief against
the state tax, must be dismissed without regard to the
merits." It would seem that the court overlooked §§ 144,
145, and 152, Ky. Stats., which require the Auditor to keep
account of taxes collected, keep a correct list of balances
due by individuals to the Commonwealth, audit and enter
in account all demands payable at the treasury, report to
the Attorney General all public debtors who fail to render
their accounts at-the proper time or to pay the money in
their hands due the Commonwealth into the treasury, and
grant written authority to the Treasurer to receive money

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. CO. v. GREENE.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

from public officers or other persons due to the Commonwealth. However, we need not rest upon this point, since
in the present case the Attorney General and his assistants
are joined as parties, and the final decree under review restrains all of the defendants from taking any steps to
collect the excessive taxes due to the State or to any of its
subdivisions, and from instituting or prosecuting any
proceedings against the plaintiff, either by indictment or
civil action, because of any alleged delinquency or failure
of the plaintiff to pay taxes upon its franchise on a valuation above the amount found by the court to be proper.
The decree, with respect to the state as well as the local
taxes, is clearly within the authority of Ex parte Young,
209 U. S. 123, 156, where Fitts v. McGhee, 172 U. S. 516,
530, was distinguished upon the ground that in that case
no state officer who was made a party had to do with the
enforcement of the statute alleged to be unconstitutional.
If what was said in Coulter v. Louisville & Nashville
R. R. Co., 196 U. S. 599, 608, imports that an injunction
can under no circumstances be awarded with respect to
state taxes, it must be deemed to have been overruled by
Raymond v. Chicago Union Traction Co., 207 U. S. 20,
where the collection of taxes based upon an unconstitutional assessment was enjoined, a part of these being state
taxes, as appears by the report, pp. 22, 27.
(5) It is contended by defendants that the evidence was
insufficient to warrant the conclusion of the learned District Judge that in fact property in general in the State of
Kentucky was systematically undervalued. A similar
question of fact was involved in Coulter v. Louisville &
Nashville R. R. Co., and this court (p. 609) held the evidence to be insufficient. In the present case, besides
much to the same effect as that presented in the Coulter
Case, a mass of additional evidence was introduced, including extracts from the United States Censu8 Report
for the year 1910; reports of the State Board of Equaliza-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

tion for the years 1910, 1911, 1912, and 1913; report of the
State Tax Commission of 1913; testimony of a member of
the State Board of Equalization who served in the years
1908 to 1911, inclusive; affidavits of nearly 200 individuals from 47 counties in different parts of the State; and
much besides. The evidence is too voluminous to be
adequately reviewed within reasonable limits of space,
and we content ourselves with saying that it comprises a
body of official admissions and direct and circumstantial
evidence from private and public sources that are unimpeached, fully sustaining the finding of the trial court that
the great mass of property in the State, so far as assessed
by the county assessors under the review of the county
boards of supervisors and the State Board of Equalization-and this embraces all tangible property except railroad property and distilled spirits-during a period of
years prior to and including the year 1913, was intentionally, systematically, and notoriously assessed far below
its actual value, and at certainly not exceeding 60 per
cent. of its fair cash value. There is little to the contrary
except the general presumptions arising from the statutory
duty of assessors to assess at fair cash value and from the
oath customarily required of individual taxpayers, and a
large number of stereotyped affidavits made by former
assessors to-the effect that they endeavored to follow the
law and assess all property at its faif cash value, and if
any property was otherwise assessed it was unintentional
and not pursuant to any agreement between the assessor
and the taxpayer. In our judgment this does not materially detract from the convincing effect of plaintiff's
proofs. The evidence is analyzed briefly in the opinion
of the District Judge, 230 Fed. Rep. 227-231, and nothing
more need be added to his comments upon it.
This disposes of all the points raised by defendants.
(6) It is contended by plaintiff that the Board of Valuation and Assessment, in assessing plaintiff's franchise,

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. CO. v. GREENE.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

proceeded upon erroneous principles and adopted an improper method, not only in failing to equalize the assessment so as to make it conform to the basis generally
adopted by other assessing officers in assessing other
kinds of property, but also in failing to follow the course
prescribed by the Kentucky statute; and that with respect
to its complaint in this regard the decree of the District
Court gave inadequate relief.
In order to pass upon this contention, we must consider
the nature of the so-called "franchise tax," the method
prescribed by the statute for valuing the franchise, the
method that was pursued by the Board, and the manner
in which the District Court dealt with it.
The statutory provisions are in §§ 4077-4081, Ky. Stats.,
the material portions of which are set forth in the margin.'
§ 4077. (1) Franchise-assessment of. Every railway company or
corporation, . . . also every other corporation, company or
association having or exercising any special or exclusive privilege or
franchise not allowed by law to natural persons, or performing any
public service, shall, in addition to the other taxes imposed on it by
law, annually pay a tax on its franchise to the State, and a local tax
thereon to the county, incorporated city, town or taxing district, where
its franchise may be exercised. The Auditor, Treasurer and Secretary of State are hereby constituted a board of valuation and assessment for fixing the value of said franchise, except as to turnpike companies, which are provided for in § 1 [40951 of subdivision 4 of this
article,
The Auditor shall be chairman of said board, and
shall convene the same from time to time, as the business of the board
may require. It shall be the duty of the Attorney-General, when requested by the board of valuation and assessment, to attend said
board at its meetings and advise with same in its proceedings.
§ 4078. (2) Corporations to report to Auditor to determine value of
franchise. In order to determine the value of the franchises mentioned
in the next preceding section, shall, annually, between the thirtieth
day of June and the first day of October, make and deliver to the
Auditor of Public Accounts of this State a statement, verified by its
president, cashier, secretary, treasurer, manager, or other chief officer
or agent, in such form as the Auditor may prescribe, showing the following facts, viz.: the name and principal place of business of the corI

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

They originated in the first General Assembly after the
new Constitution, being §§ 1 to 5 of Article III of Chap.
103 (November 11, 1892; Acts 1891-1893, p. 299), which
were amended by Chap. 217 of the same session (June 9,
1893, p. 990), by Act of March 29, 1902 (c. 128, Acts 1902,
pp. 281, 305-309), and by Act of March 15, 1906 (c. 22,
Laws 1906, pp. 88, 126-130). One of the amendments,
having to do with one of the questions we are to consider,
will be mentioned below.
It will be observed that the values of franchises (except
as to turnpike companies, otherwise provided for), are
to be determined by the Board of Valuation and Assessment, which board, upon a consideration of information
furnished to it by the corporation, and from such other
poration, company or association; the kind of business engaged in;
the amount of capital stock, preferred and common; the number of
shares of each; the amount of stock paid up; the par and real value
thereof; the highest price at which such stock was sold at a bonafide sale
within twelve months next before the thirtieth day of June of the year
in which the statement is required to be made; the amount of surplus
funds and undivided profits and the value of all other assets; the total
amount of indebtedness as principal, the amount of gross or net earnings or income, including interest on investments, and incomes from
all other sources for twelve months next preceding the thirtieth day
of June of the year in which the statement is required; the amount and
kind of tangible property in this State, and where situated, assessed,
or liable to assessment in this State, and the fair cash value thereof,
estimated at the price it would bring at a fair voluntary sale, and such
other facts as the Auditor may require.
§ 4079. (3) Value of franchise-how determined-lines extend beyond State or county. Where the line or lines of any such corporation,
company or association extend beyond the limits of the State or county,
the statement shall, in addition to the other facts hereinbefore required,
show the length of entire lines operated, owned, leased or controlled
in- this State, and in each county, incorporated city, town or taxing
district, and the entire line operated, controlled, leased or owned
elsewhere. If the corporation, company or association be organized
under the laws of any other State or government or organized and incorporated in this State, but operating and conducting its business in

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. CO. v. GREENE.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

evidence as it may have, is to "fix the value of the capital
stock of the corporation . . . and from the amount
thus fixed shall deduct the assessed value of all tangible
property assessed in this State, or in the counties where
situated. The remainder thus found shall be the value
of its corporate franchise subject to taxation as aforesaid."
It has been held by the Kentucky Court of Appeals, and
by this court, that the "capital stock of the corporation"
includes its entire property of every kind and description,
tangible and intangible, and that what is called its "corporate franchise" is the intangible property of the company in Kentucky. Henderson Bridge Co. v. Commonwealth, 99 Kentucky, 623, 639, 641; Henderson Bridge
Co. v. Kentucky, 166 U. S. 150, 154; Adams Express Co.
other States as well as in this State, the statement shall show the following facts in addition to the facts hereinbefore required: The gross
and net income or earnings received in this State and out of this State,
on business done in this State, and the entire gross receipts of the corporation, company or association in this State and elsewhere during
the twelve months next before the thirtieth day of June of the year in
which the assessment is required to be made.

.

.

Provided, That

said board, from said statement, and from such other evidence as it
may have, if such corporation, company or association be organized
under the laws of this State, shall fix the value of the capital stock of
the corporation, company or association, as provided in the next succeeding section, and from the amount thus fixed shall deduct the assessed value of all tangible property assessed in. this State, or in the
counties where situated. The remainder thus found shall be the value
of its corporate franchise subject-to taxation as aforesaid.
§ 4080. (4) Foreign corporations-franchise-how determined. If
the corporation, company or association be organized under the laws
of any other State or government, except as provided in the next section, the board shall fix the capital stock in this State by capitalizing
the net income derived in this State, or it shall fix the capital stock as
hereinbefore provided, and will determine from the amount of the
gross receipts of such corporation, company or association in this
State and elsewhere, the proportion which the gross receipts of this
State, within twelve months next before the thirtieth day of June of the
year in which the assessments were made, bears to the entire gross

536

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

v. Kentucky, 166 U. S. 171, 180; Louisville Tobacco Warehouse Co. v. Commonwealth, 106 Kentucky, 165, 167;
Marion National Bank v. Burton, 121 Kentucky, 876, 888.
The findings of an official body such as the Board of
Valuation and Assessment, made-as was the case hereafter a hearing and upon notice to the taxpayer, are quasijudicial in their character, and are not to be set aside or
disregarded by the courts unless it is made to appear that
the body proceeded upon an erroneous principle or adopted
an improper mode of estimating the value of the franchise,
or unless fraud appears. Pittsburgh &c. Railway- Co. v.
Backus, 154 U. S. 421, 435-436; Chicago, Burlington &
Quincy Ry. Co. v. Babcock, 204 U. S. 585, 596. In this
case there is no showing of fraud, the contention being
that the Board departed from the mode prescribed by
the statute. If they did this, or if they proceeded in disregard of rights secured to the taxpayer by the state or
federal Constitution, of course they proceeded upon an
receipts of the company, the same proportion of the value of the entire
capital stock or the capitalizing of the net earnings in this State, less
the assessed value of the tangible property assessed, or liable to assessment, in this State, shall be the correct value of the corporate franchise
of such corporation, company or association for taxation in this State.
§ 4081. (5) Interstate carrier-franchise-how fixed. If the corporation organized under the laws of this State, or of some other State
government, be a railroad . . . company or a corporation performing any other public service, the lines of which extend beyond the
limits of the State, the said board will fix the value of the capital stock
as hereinbefore provided, and that proportion of the value of the ca,ital stock which the length of the lines operated, owned, leased, or controlled in this State, bears to the total length of the lines owned, leased
or controlled in this State and elsewhere, shall be considered in fixing
the value of the corporate franchise of such corporation liable for taxation in this State; and such corporate franchise shall be liable to taxation in each county, incorporated city, town or district through or
into which such lines pass, or are operated, in the same proportion that
the length of the line in such county, city, town or district bears to the
whole length of lines in this State; . .

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. CO. v. GREENE.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

erroneous principle. Henderson Bridge Co. v. Commonwealth, 99 Kentucky, 623, 645; Hager v. American Surety
Co., 121 Kentucky, 791, 800. It appears that the Board,
having received a report from the plaintiff, and having
made a tentative assessment of its franchise for taxation
for the year 1913, had a hearing upon the matter in the
presence of counsel for plaintiff, and as a result made up
its assessment in a manner summarized by the District
Court (230 Fed. Rep. 193) as follows:
"The details of the assessment, showing the manner in
which the board arrived at $45,658,630 as the value of
the franchise, are these: The board first found the fair
cash value of plaintiff's capital stock, hereafter termed its
unit, to be $262,252,566. This valuation it arrived at by
capitalizing at 6 per cent. what it took to be plaintiff's net
income from operations on its own account for the year
ending June 30, 1912, as of which date the assessment
speaks, less what it took to be its net income from certain
property which it took to be nontaxable. Plaintiff's reports to the Kentucky Railroad Commission and to the
Interstate Commerce Commission as of that date state
plaintiff's net income for that year to have been
$18,052,905.12. This included the net income from the
operation by plaintiff of three railroads, two in and one
6ut of Kentucky, on account of the owners, which
amounted to $1,439,604. The board deducted this sum
from the total, leaving a balance of $16,613,301.12 of net
income from operations on its own account. It then deducted from this balance the sum of $878,147 on account
of its net income from such nontaxable property. This
left a balance of $15,735,154, which capitalized at 6 per
cent. gave the sum of $262,252,566, at which it valued
the unit. The nontaxable property, the income from which
was thus deducted, consisted of stocks in other corporations which owned property in this state and which had
paid the taxes thereon. The deduction was based on

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

sections 4085 and 4086, Kentucky Statutes, and the construction thereof by the Court of Appeals in the cases of
Com. v. Walsh's Trustee, 133 Kentucky, 103,117 S. W. Rep.
398, and Com. v. Fidelity Trust Co., 147 Kentucky, 77, 143
S. W. Rep. 1037. It then apportioned $92,181,766 of this
sum to Kentucky. The suni so apportioned was 35.15 per
cent. thereof. The percentage which it took was the percentage which the mileage operated by plaintiff in Kentucky on its own account was of the entire mileage so
operated by it. The entire mileage so operated by it was
4,478.61, of which 1,574.41 was in Kentucky. It then
added to the sum so apportioned $2,468,612, the excess
in the value which it took that the portion of the unit in
Kentucky was over such mileage proportion of the value
thereof: It found this excess in value to be in the intangible part of the portion of the unit in Kentucky, and that
in this way: The value of the tangible part it took to be
$177,038,113, and that of the intangible $85,214,453. The
proportion of the gross income derived from Kentucky
of the entire gross income it took to be 38 per cent., or
2.85 per cent. in excess of such mileage proportion. It
took it that this showed that the value of. the portion of
the intangible part of the unit in Kentucky was 2.85 per
cent. of the value of such part, or the sum of $2,468,612,
in excess of such mileage proportion thereof. Adding this
sum to such mileage proportion of the value of the unit,
to wit, $92,181,766, made the value of the portion of the
unit in Kentucky $94,650,388. It then reduced this sum
to that of $94,500,000 as the value. This reduction is not
to be accounted for, except on the ground that it wanted
to place the value of such portion in round numbers. This
lessened the addition to such mileage proportion of the
value of the unit on account of the excess in value of the
portion of the intangible part of the unit in Kentucky
over such mileage proportion thereof from the sum of
$2,468,612 to $2,318,244, which latter sum was the dif-

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. CO. v. GREENE.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ference between $94,500,000 and $92,181,766. But the
board had no sooner made this reduction than it made a
further reduction from this sum in round numbers to
another sum, not in round numbers, to wit $75,139,402,
as the value of the portion of the unit in Kentucky, and
there it stayed. On the assumption that this sum was
reached by reducing from $94,500,000, there is no accounting for how it reached it, rather than any other sum. The
only account of it which it gave was that it so did 'to be
conservative, and out of an abundance of caution, to the
end that no injustice may be done respondent in arriving
at the value of the corporate franchise of respondent in
this state.' And it noted the fact that this-sum was 'less
than 80 per cent. of that which it believes to be the fair
cash value of Kentucky's proportion of the entire capital
stock of respondent.' It then deducted from this last sum
the assessed value of the tangible property in Kentucky,
to wit, $29,500,772, which left the sum of $45,658,630 as
the value of the franchise. Such is what the board did on
the face of things."
Plaintiff being an interstate carrier whose lines of railroad extend both within and without the limits of the
State, it comes within §4081, Ky. Stats., which requires
that "the said board will fix the value of the capital stock
as hereinbefore provided, and that proportion of the value
of the capital stock which the length of the lines operated,
owned, leased, or controlled in this State, bears to the total
length of the lines owned, leased or controlled in this State
and elsewhere, shall be considered in fixing the value of
the corporate franchise of such corporation liable for taxation in this State." The only previous provision to satisfy
the reference "will fix the value of the capital stock as
hereinbefore provided," is the provision of § 4079 that the
Board shall fix it "from said statement, and from such
other evidence as it may have."
Under this system it is obvious that there are three

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U.

principal steps in the process of ascertaining the value of
the intangible property, taxable in Kentucky, of companies
operating lines of railroad extending within and beyond
the limits of the State. These are: (1) The fixing of the
value of "the capital stock of the corporation"; which,
as construed in previous cases, means the total value of
all its net assets, tangible and intangible, within and without the State; (2) the apportionment to Kentucky; and
(3) the elimination of the value of the tangible assets.
Whether the second step shall precede the third, or vice
versa, is one of the matters in dispute.
No specific method being prescribed by the statute for
fixing the value of the "capital stock" of the entire system, except a requirement to the effect that the Board
shall have before it, with other evidence, a statement by
the corporation setting forth the kind of business engaged in, the amount of capital stock, the number of
shares, the par and real value thereof, with the highest
price at which it has sold recently, the amount of surplus
and undivided profits, the value of all assets, the total
amount of indebtedness, the gross and net earnings or income, the amount and kind of tangible property within
the State, and its location and fair cash value, it follows
that the particular method to be pursued in ascertaining
from this and other evidence the aggregate capital value
is left to the sound judgment and discretion of the Board.
In such cases there are (at least) two recognized methods,
known as the stock-and-bond plan and the capitalization-of-income plan. In the present case the latter was
followed.
. (7) The application of this method by the Board is attacked in two respects, first, in the manner of deducting
non-taxable assets, and, second, in the rate of percentage
used in capitalizing the income. As to the first point,
the insistence is that as the tax under consideration is
merely an intangible-property tax, it results that if

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. CO. v. GREENE.
244 U. S.

541

Opinion of the Court.

among the assets of the corporation going to make up its
total capital value there were some that were non-taxable, it was necessary to deduct these before arriving at
the taxable capital. It is pointed out that under § 4085,
Ky. Stats., the property of all corporations is to be assessed in the name of the corporation, and "so long as
said corporation pays the tax on all its property of every
kind, the individual stockholders shall not be required to
list their shares in said corporation;" the argument being
that, to the extent that plaintiff held the stock of other
corporations having property in Kentucky and paying
taxes thereon in that State, this stock in plaintiff's hands
was non-taxable, and its value should have been deducted
from the total villue of its capital stock previously ascertained; citing Commonwealth v. Fidelity Trust Co., 147
Kentucky, 77, 84. As the record shows, the Board of
Valuation and Assessment recognized plaintiff's right to
deduction upon this account, and for this reason, in applying the capitalization-of-income method, deducted from
$16,613,301.12, net income from operated roads, the sum
of $878,147, the net income from non-taxable securities
as reported by plaintiff to the Auditor and the Railroad
Commission, taking the balance only, or $15,735,154,
as the income to be capitalized in order to arrive at the
value of the entire system. The criticism is that adopting this method had the effect of deducting only such stock
in other corporations as paid dividends, whereas plaintiff
insists that much of its stock thus held, although paying
no dividends, or dividends at a low rate, had large intrinsic value by reason of the control it gave over other lines
of railroad and the increment it brought to the aggregate
income of the company. There was evidence that these
non-taxable securities amounted to upwards of $30,000,000
in value, whereas the capitalization at 6 per cent. of their
income of $878,147 produced a value of only $14,469,113.
In our opinion, it is a sufficient answer to this contention

.542

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

to say that the Board merely carried out the capitalizationof-income plan of valuation, perhaps to its logical extreme,
but certainly not in a manner that enables this court to say
that they pursued a fundamentally wrong method.
(8) The second point, the adoption of a 6 per cent. interest rate as the basis of capitalization, instead of the
higher rate, called -in the testimony the "composite percentage," reached by taking plaintiff's mileage in each of
the thirteen States in which it operates, multiplying this
by the legal rate of interest in that State, and dividing
the total of the products by the total mileage, is, like the
first, a criticism merely of the conclusion of. the Board upon
a question of fact which is not properly subject to review
by the courts.
Therefore we concur in the opiniQn of the District Judge
that, upon this record, the value of the capital stock must
be taken to be at least as great as $262,252,566, the
amount found by the Board.
(9) The Board's next step was to apportion to Kentucky
a certain part of this total value, which of course included
both tangible and intangible assets; after which it proceeded to deduct the assessed value of the tangible assets
in Kentucky. Plaintiff insists that these steps should have
been reversed; that the Board, having valued the total
capital stock of the company, including assets tangible
and intangible, should first have deducted the entire
tangible assets wherever situate, and next have assigned a
proper portion of the intangible to Kentucky.
What the statute requires, in this respect, is a question
of state law, upon which we must follow the Kentucky
Court of Appeals if that court has passed upon it. It is
true that the only authority of the Board was to assess
intangible property, and, whether it followed the local
statute or not, it could not, consistently with the due
process provision of the Fourteenth Amendment, include,
at least as against any foreign corporation, any part of its

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. CO. v. GREENE.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tangible property lying without the State; and it is not
to be supposed that the statute intended to prescribe a
different rule with respect to Kentucky corporations,
since domestic and foreign corporations are dealt with
in the same section (§ 4081). That section, according
to its terms, first provides that the Board shall "fix the
value of the capital stock as hereinbefore provided," there
being, as already shown, no provision respecting the
method except that the ascertainment shall be based upon
the statement of the corporation and such other evidence
as the Board may have. The section proceeds to declare
that "that proportion of the value of the capital stock
which the length of the lines operated, owned, leased,
or controlled in this State bears to the fotal length of the
lines owned, leased, or controlled in this State and elsewhere, shall be considered in fixing the value of the corporate franchise' of such corporation liable for taxation
in this State." Referiing now to the mode of procedure,
these words evidently contemplate an apportionment,
as an aid in reaching the ultimate result (valuation of
franchise taxable in Kentucky); but it is an apportionment of "the value of the capital stock," which includes
both tangibles and intangibles, within and without the
State. This is not to say that any property without the
State may be taxed. It requires state mileage valuation
to be considered and compared with system mileage
valuation, but it does not make this comparison conclusive. As the section was enacted originally, the words
"considered in fixing" were not contained in it, so that
upon the face of things the mileage pro-rate was conclusive in ascertaining the State's proportion of the value
of the corporate franchise,-just as county and district
mileage was and still is conclusive as to apportionment
between those taxing districts. 'But by the Act of June 9,
1893, the words "considered in fixing" were inserted, the
necessary effect of which was to make the relation of state

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

mileage to system mileage a factor that must be considered,
but not necessarily given conclusive weight. Section 4081
says nothing about deducting the value of tangible property, and the preceding sections speak of deducting only
such tangible property as is located within the State. Indeed, there is no provision requiring the corporation to report its tangibles outside of the State. And, if all tangibles
were deducted before apportionment, then the deduction of
"all tangible property assessed in this State," specifically
required by the proviso to § 4079, obviously would result in a double deduction. The sections are inartificially
drawn in this as in some, other respects. The District
Court, upon elaborate consideration in the case of the
1912 assessment (209 Fed. Rep. 418-429), reached the
conclusion that by the proper construction the entire
value of capital stock should be first apportioned, having
regard to the mileage, and that from Kentucky's portion
of the whole the assessed value of the tangibles within the
State should then be deducted; and that the Kentucky
Court of Appeals had so decided in Commonwealth v.
Covington & CincinatiBridge Co., 114 Kentucky, 343.
Plaintiff relies upon two cases, the first being Adams
Express Co. v. Kentucky, 166 U. S. 171, 180, where this
court, by Mr. Chief Justice Fuller, after referring to the
statutory provisions now under consideration, and the
use in the several- sections of the words "franchise" and
"corporate franchise," said: '.'But taking the whole act
together, and in view of the provisions of sections 4078,
4079, 4080 and 4081, we agree with the Circuit Court that
it is evident that the word 'franchise' was not employed in
a technical sense, and that the legislative intention is plain
that the entire property, tangible and intangible,
should be valued as an entirety, the value of the tangible
property be deducted, and the value of the intangible
property thus ascertained be taxed under these provisions;
and as to railroad . . . companies, whose lines ex-

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. CO. v. GREENE.

244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tend beyond the limits of the State, that their intangible
property should be assessed on the basis of the mileage of
their lines within and without the State. But from the
valuation on the mileage basis the value of all tangible
property is deducted before the taxation is applied." The
matter of apportionment was not there involved, nor
what method or order was prescribed by the statute;
the question at the moment being whether the tax was a
true franchise tax, or merely a property tax upon intangible property. The significant thing was that the value
of tangibles was to be deducted; whether before or after
apportionment was a matter of no present significance.
And the last sentence quoted, in the expression "valuation
on the mileage basis," indicates an apportionment of the
entire capital stock, mile for mile, prior to the deduction
of tangibles.
The second case referred to is Coulter v. Weir, 127 Fed.
Rp. 897, 907-908, where the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Sixth Circuit, in dealing with the question whether
the law was repugnant to the commerce clause or the
Fourteenth Amendment, used this language: "-Neither is
the injunction in reference to a deduction of the value of
tangible taxable property from the gross value of the whole
corporate property limited to such as is situated within
the state of Kentucky. If tangible property having a situs
outside the state be included in the valuation of the company's intangible property, the purpose of the law, being
to tax only intangible property, is defeated. We therefore read the act, as the- Supreme Court seems to have
read it in Adams Express Co. v. Kentucky, as requiring
the deduction of tangible property from the gross value
of all corporate assets, whether such tangible property
be within or without the state." The question of apportionment, or of the particular method to be pursued in
making the assessment, was not involved in this case,
any more than in Adams Express Co. v. Kentucky, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

It is true, as the court said, that if tangible property having
a situs outside the State were included in the valuation,
the purpose of the law to tax only intangible property
would be defeated. The same result would follow if
tangible property within the State were included in the
valuation. But it does not follow that tangibles, within
or without the State, are to be included in the valuation
because included in the apportionment. Any excess of
tangibles, without or within the State, properly may be
given its due weight as a factor modifying the tentative
result reached by mere mileage apportionment. In the
absence of special circumstances, this is not of itself necessarily an unjust method of apportioning such a tax.
Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Massachusetts, 125 U. S.
530, 552-553; Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Taggart, 163
U. S. 1, 18, 20, 22, 26.
However, the decision of the Kentucky Court of Appeals
in the .Covington & Cincinnati Bridge Co. Case, supra, is
directly in point, and, being so, is conclusive upon the
question of the proper statutory method. There the company's "capital st6ck," valued 'by the stock-and-bond
method, amounted to $1,330,000. It owned an interstate
bridge, 59 per cent. of the length thereof being in Kentucky, the remainder in Ohio; and it had tangible property
in Kentucky assessed at $452,000. The State of Ohio
assessed the portion of the bridge lying in that State'at
$237,984, and the company paid the taxes thereon. The
Kentucky Board of Valuation and Assessment fixed the
value of its entire property or capital stock at $730,349,
and, deducting from this the assessment of tangibles in
Kentucky ($452,000), took the difference, or $278,349, as
the franchise valuation. The company, insisting that the
correct valuation was $180,489, paid to Kentucky the
tax on this amount, reserving the question of its liability
for a claimed balance of $464.84, and of the method or
basis upon which its franchise should be valued for taxa-

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. CO. v. GREENE.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tion by the Board, to be determined by the courts. The
matter was submitted to the Circuit Court as an agreed
case presenting two questions, (1) whether the company
owed to the Commonwealth the sum of $464.84, or any
part thereof, on account of the tax of its franchise, and
(2) what method or basis should be adopted by the State
Board of Valuation and Assessment for fixing the value
of defendant's franchise for taxation in the Commonwealth
of Kentucky. That court held that the Board had adopted
an improper method, and that the company, by the payment it had made, had fulfilled its obligation to the State;
reaching this conclusion by taking the aggregate market
value of its capital stock and bonded indebtedness
($1,330,000), deducting the assessed value of the Ohio
tangibles ($237,984), and apportioning the balance of
$1,092,016 on the basis of 59 per cent. to Kentucky and
41 per cent. to Ohio. From 59 per cent. of $1,092,016,
namely $664,289, it deducted the tangible property
assessed in Kentucky, $452,000, which left a balance of
$192,289 as the value of the Kentucky franchise. The
State appealed to the Court of Appeals, where it insisted
that by the method adopted by the Circuit Court the
company was not taxed upon its entire property. The
report of the case states (pp. 348, 349): "It is insisted for
the State that the proper way to arrive at the valuation
of the franchise is to take the total value, $1,330,000, and
get 59 per cent. of it, which is $782,700, and that this
presents the total of the tangible property and of the
franchise in Kentucky. Therefore, if we deduct from this
total $782,700, the assessment of the tangible property in
Kentucky, $452,000, the balance, $330-700, is the value
of the franchise. The board fixed the value of the franchise at $278,349, or considerably less than the result thus
obtained." It was insisted for the Bridge Company that
the Circuit Court had followed Henderson Bridge Co. v.
Commonwealth, 99 Kentucky, 623, but the Court of Ap-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

peals pointed out that in that case the Board had followed
the method claimed by the Company, that as the action
was brought by the State to recover taxes upon the assessment made by the Board, the State was not in a position
to question the propriety of the assessment, and that
there was nothing in that case, or in any subsequent case
approving it, to prevent the Board from adopting a different basis. To a criticism that the Board had adopted
an erroneous basis in the instant case, the court conceded
the point, arguendo, but sustained the assessment upon
the ground that it was no more onerous than it would
have been had a correct method been adopted; and, in
conclusion, declared (pp. 350-351): "We therefore conclude, that the basis urged by appellant [the State] is the
proper one for the assessment of the property under the
agreed facts, and the board having fixed a lower assessment than this would make, the court erred in not enforcing the collection of the tax on the assessment made by
the board." This was a precise answer to the equally
precise contention urged in behalf of the State affecting
each of the two questions that were submitted f6r decision, and it seems to us that it is binding upon the federal
courts as a construction of the statute.
This, we repeat, does not necessarily result in including
in the Kentucky franchise valuation tangible or intangible
property not located within that State. It does permit
the Kentucky officials to take into consideration extrastate tangibles, as well as intangibles, constituting portions of the unit of which they are valuing a part. This
is permissible, even in applying the statute to non-resident
corporations. It is settled that total stock or total assets,
situate partly within and partly without the State but
organically related, may be taken into consideration as a
means of reaching the true cash value of property within
the State, -and that the mileage relation may be given its
proper weight. State Railroad Tax Cases, 92 U. S. 575,

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. CO. v. GREENE.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

608; Pullman's Palace Car Co. v. Pennsylvania, 141 U. S.
18, 26; Pittsburgh &c. Railway Co. v. Backus, 154 U. S.
421, 430-431; Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Taggart,
163 U. S. 1, 26, 27; Fargo v. Hart, 193 U. S. 490,
499.
(10) Plaintiff's next point is that the Board took into
consideration a mileage proportion of 35.15 per cent.,
which was the ratio borne by the roads operated by plaintiff within the State of Kentucky to its total operated
mileage; whereas it should have included the controlled
mileage within and without the State, which would have
yielded to Kentucky a proportion of only 24.69 per cent.
In this the District Court yielded to plaintiff's contention,
and, we think, rightly so. By § 4079, Ky. Stats., where
the company's lines extend beyond the limits of the State,
the report to the Auditor shall in addition to other facts
show "the length of entire lines operated, owned, leased
or controlled in this State, and in each county, incorporated city, town or taxing district, and the entire line
operated, controlled, leased or owned elsewhere." And,
by § 4081, "that proportion of the value of the capital
stock which the length of the lines operated, owned, leased,
or controlled in this State, bears to the total length of the
lines owned, leased or controlled in this State and elsewhere, shall be considered in fixing the value of the corporate franchise of such corporation liable for taxation in
this State." In Commonwealth v. L. & N. R. R. Co., 149
Kentucky, 829, 838, the very point was considered by the
Court of Appeals, which declared: "If the railroad company owns a majority of the stock of any company, so
that it may elect its directors and dictate its policy, there
can be no doubt that it controls it within the meaning
of the statute, and that such other railroad should be
included in the report required to be made to the Auditor.
If required to be reported, the Board of Valuation and
Assessment may take them into consideration in fixing

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

the value of the franchise of the controlling company in
the State of Kentucky."
(11) The District Court (230 Fed. Rep. 199, et seq.)
acceded to the contention of the plaintiff that the action
of the Board in adding at first $2,468,612, and, finally,
$2,318,244, to the Kentucky proportion of the value of
the unit, on account of the excess value of the portion of
the Kentucky intangibles over the mileage proportion
thereof was not warranted; basing this decision upon the
ground that the Board did not follow the only possible
method that would have determined this excess with any
certainty, and did not have before it the data that would
have enabled it to do so. The point perhaps is covered
by one of defendants' assignments of error; but no argument has been addressed to it, and we express no opinion
upon it.
(12) The District Court, having found that the value
of plaintiff's entire capital stock must be taken to be at
least as much as $262,252,566, the amount found by. the
Board, and that the apportionment must be upon the
basis not of the opetated mileage only, but of all mileage
operated, owned, leased, and controlled within and without the State, was led to the further conclusion, as a corollary (230 Fed. Rep. 202-204), that the valuation of the
total capital stock should include an item that the Board
had overlooked, viz., the value of so much of the controlled
mileage as was not represented by plaintiff's holdings.
(Of course, in adopting the capitalization-of-income
method of valuation, no account was taken of the interests of others than plaintiff in the controlled roads.)
Plaintiff contends that the statute does not justify this
procedure; that it is beyond the power of the State because it results in taxing property not belonging to the
plaintiff; and that a more logical and consistent method
would be to arrive at the operated, owned, leased, or controlled mileage by treating as controlled mileage not the

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. CO. v. GREENE.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

total, but only a proportion corresponding to the amount
of stock held by plaintiff in the controlled roads. The
matter is not free from doubt; but we concur in the view
of the District Judge that it was the legislative intent that,
in fixing the percentage apportionable to Kentucky and
to be taken into consideration in valuing the taxable franchise, the whole of the controlled mileage within and without the State was to be treated as a part of the aggregate
"capital stock," not only in fixing the mileage, but also
in fixing the valuation, upon which the apportionment is
to be based. It is not to be supposed that the legislature
intended to require that, in making the mileage apportionment, which as already shown is not conclusive but evidential upon the valuation of the taxable franchise, fractional interests in the controlled roads should be taken
into the account, but rather that a controlled road should
be treated the same as a road owned.
In order to avoid a double assessment of the franchise of
so much of the controlled mileage as was within the State,
the court found it necessary to deduct from the Kentucky
apportionment of the "capital stock" the value of the
Kentucky portion of the controlled mileage (in addition
to the assessed value of the tangible property there situate)
since these local franchises would be assessed against
each of the separate organizations. In this view we concur.
But the court was unable to apply the proper correction
to the Board's valuation (p. 232), because of there being
nothing in the record to show either the value of the portion of plaintiff's total capital stock not considered by the
Board (that is,' the value of the outstanding interests in the
controlled roads), or the value of that portion of the controlled mileage which was in Kentucky.
After the court delivered its opinion to this effect, and
before the entering of the final decree, plaintiff tendered
what is called a supplemental bill, which the court allowed
to be filed, purporting to show all the facts respecting the

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

controlled roads, and to demonstrate that the result of
adopting the process indicated by the court's opinion
would be to reduce the assessment below the amount upon
which the company already had paid taxes, and this
whether the valuation were made on the stock-and-bond
plan or on the capitalization-of-income plan. It appears
that defendants never filed any answer to this, and it is
urged that because of their failure to do so its allegations
must be taken as confessed. But there is nothing to show
that defendants were ordered to answer; and inasmuch as
this supplemental bill was filed after the hearing and decision of the cause, and the record contains nothing to
show why its averments were ignored, we are not able
to say either that defendants were in the position of admitting those averments, or that the court erred in failing
to give effect to them. But at least it can be said that
plaintiff was not in default for omitting to introduce
evidence at the hearing respecting these matters, they
not having been considered by the Board, nor set up in
the original pleadings, nor so far as appears deemed by
any of the parties to be material until the court rendered
its decision. Yet, as will appear presently, the court in
effect decided the case against plaintiff because there was
nothing in the record to show the facts concerning the
controlled mileage.
(13) In attempting to carry into effect its conclusions
upon the facts and the law, the District Court pursued
the following process of reasoning (p. 231): Assuming
$262,252,566 to be the true cash value of plaintiff's entire
capital stock, as the Board found it to be, and 24.6901 (in
the opinion this is misprinted as "24.9601") to be the
true percentage of the fair cash value apportionable to
Kentucky, and that Kentucky's portion was not of greater
value than the mileage proportion, the fair cash value of
the portion of plaintiff's capital stock attributable to
Kentucky would be $64,750,418.79. Sixty per cent. of

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. CO. v. GREENE.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

this-the factor of equalization-was taken to be
$38,850,251.12.
Deducting $29,500,772, the assessed
value of the tangible property, would leave $11,349,479.27
as the value of the franchise-this being less than half
of the amount upon which payment had been made.
(There appear to be some additional misprints, or trifling
errors of calculation, but not sufficient to affect the result.)
-But since the Board had omitted to include in the value
of the capital stock that interest in the controlled mileage
not represented by the stock and bonds owned by plaintiff, and since there was nothing in the record to show the
value of this interest, or the value of that portion of the
controlled mileage located in Kentucky, the court assumed that the result of considering these two matters
might be to make the value of the Kentucky portion of
plaintiff's capital stock as much as $92,181,766, the sum
at which the Board fixed it, instead of $64,750,418.79,
the amount computed by the court. The court proceeded
to say (p. 232):
"The board has found the fair cash value of the portion
of plaintiff's unit in this state to be $92,181,766, without
any excess value. They have not gone at it in the right
way. But they have in fact found such to be its value. It
is possible that, if they had gone at it in the right way, they
would have found such to be the value thereof .
I will therefore dispose of the case on the basis that it was
that much. This is not such an exactness as I always like
to attain, but the case is one where exactness is not, and
only approximation is, attainable. Taking 60 per cent.
of $92,181,766 would give $55,309,059.60 as the value
of the portion of plaintiff's unit in Kentucky. Deducting
$29,500,566, the assessed value of the tangible property,
leaves $25,808,493.60 as the value of the franchise. And
deducting from this balance $22,899,300, the amount on
which payment has been made, leaves $2,909,192.60 on
which payment should yet be made."

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Dissent.

244 U. S.

This rough-and-ready reasoning had the effect of depriving plaintiff of the benefit of having controlled mileage
taken into consideration in making the apportionment,
instead of operated mileage only; and this because of the
assumption that the same valuation reached by the Board
through an erroneous method possibly might have been
reached had they pursued a correct method. We think
the court here fell into error. It being shown that the
valuation made by the Board was the result of following
a method substantially erroneous because not in accordance with the statute, there is no presumption that a like
valuation would have been reached by following a correct
method. As the difference is so great-more than
$27,000,000-there is a strong presumption to the contrary. If any of the facts necessary to enable the court
to determine what result would have been reached by the
application of a correct method were absent from the
record, the court might have opened the proofs, in its
discretion; otherwise it should have proceeded to base
its judgment upon such proofs as already were in the
record. The result of the method adopted in making up
the decree was to deprive plaintiff of the relief it was entitled to, upon the basis of the facts as found, because of a
surmise that, upon other facts not shown by the record, a
conclusion sustaining the Board's action might have been
reached.
The decree under review, so far as defendants' assignments of error are concerned, should be affirmed. Upon
plaintiff's assignments of error, it should be reversed, and
the cause remanded to the District Court for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
No. 778, reversed.
No. 779, affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES, MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS, and MR.

JUSTICE CLARKE dissent.

