MISSOURI PACIFIC RY. CO. v. McGREW COAL CO. 191
244 U. S.

Syllabus.

naked trespassers dishonestly seeking to appropriate
public property, and they did not belong to that class of
offenders intended to be hit by the act. Their claim
deserved consideration as plainly appears from the circumstances above narrated. This is further shown by
"An Act to Quiet Title to Certain Land in Dona Ana
County, New Mexico," approved February 3, 1911, 36
Stat. 896, through which Congress granted them the right
to make entries of and receive patents to lands in their
possession and empowered the General Land Office to
assist them at public expense in making proofs necessary
to that end.
Affirmed.

MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v. McGREW COAL COMPANY.'
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 222. Argued April 26, 1917.-Decided May 21, 1917.
The court is not called upon to consider state statutes passed for the
enforcement of a provision in the state constitution, when the latter
as construed and applied in the case by the state supreme court is
self-executing and covers the judgment in question.
As applied to a company engaged in both interstate and intrastate
traffic, a state regulation, in respect of the latter only, which forbids
any railroad company in general terms from charging more for a
shorter haul than for a longer haul for the same class of freight over
1 No. 223.
Missouri Pacific Railway Company v. McGrew et al.,
Executors of McGrew. Error to the Supreme Court of the State of
Missouri. May 21, 1917. MeReynolds, J. A stipulation of counsel
for the respective parties that this cause abide the decision in case
No. 222 having been filed, the judgment in this case is

.Affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

any portion of its lines within the State without regard to direction,
circumstances or condition, and which allows the shipper an absolute
right to recover any overcharges collected from him in violation of
the prohibition, is consistent with the Fourteenth Amendment, the
Commerce Clause, and the Interstate Commerce Acts, in the absence
of special facts and circumstances warranting a different conclusion
in the particular case. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Kentucky,
183 U. S. 503.
To claim exemption from such regulations under the Contract Clause,
the existence of a special protecting contract must be shown by the
record.
178 S. W. Rep. 1179, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. James F. Green, with whom Mr. Edward J. White
was on the briefs, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Edwin A. Krauthoff, with whom Mr. Alexander
Graves, Mr. William S. McClintock, Mr. Arthur L. Quant
and Mr. Maurice McNeill were on the briefs, for defendant
in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of
the court.
Defendant in error filed a petition containing fortyseven counts in the Lafayette Circuit Court seeking to
recover what it paid in excess of alleged lawful freight
rates upon as many shipments of coal from Myrick,
Missouri, to other points in that State. The first count
follows. It is identical in substance with all others except
as to dates, amount of coal shipped, charges paid, destination and comparative rates.
"Plaintiff avers that on April, 1908, it was and still is a
coal mining company incorporated under the law of the
State of Missouri.
"Plaintiff for 1st cause of action avers that on October,

MISSOURI PACIFIC RY. CO. v. McGREW COAL CO. 193
244 U. S.

Qpinion of the Court.

1879, the defendant was and-has been ever since a railroad
corporation duly organized under the law of said state and
a common carrier for hire of freight and passengers between its stations hereinafter named in said state.
"That within five years last past and on the dates hereinafter named plaintiff produced and sold bituminous coal
from its own mines near Myrick, one of defendant's stations in said county, and that on the various dates named
in exhibit No. 1 and in the cars therein described by number and initial, it shipped by defendant's road from said
Myrick in the aggregate, 867,000 pounds of its said coal
in car load lots to the consignee namedin said exhibit at
Strasburg, Mo., another station on defendant's road.
"Plaintiff avers that for.the said carriage of said coal defendant fixed, charged and demanded and received of the
plaintiff 80 cents per ton, an illegal freight rate, being 30
cents per ton more than defendant was by law entitled to
fix, demand, charge and receive, in this, that during all
said 'times and dates herein named defendant. had fixed,
charged, demanded and received for the carriage for the
same class of coal over its said line and over another part
of said road from its station of Liberal, Mo., and to another of its said stations, viz., Granby in said State, a distance of 77.14 miles, 50 cents per ton by the car load while
the distance from said Myrick to said Strasburg was only
61.95 miles for which said rate of 80 cents per ton for said
carriage fixed, charged, demanded and received of plaintiff as aforesaid; and the same was illegal and exceeded the
amount the defendant was entitled to fix, charge, demand
and receive for said shipments by the sum of $130.05.
"And the plaintiff avers that it is damaged and aggrieved by reason of said illegal freight charge in the sum
of $130.05; wherefore it prays judgment for the same and
for damages not exceeding $1000.00 and for all other and
general relief, according to the statutes in such case made
and provided."

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

The answer to count one-identical in effect with answers to all others-formal and some presently unimportant parts being omitted, follows:
"Comes now the defendant and for its answer
to the
1st count of plaintiff's petition, states that the same is
founded upon the Session Laws of Missouri, 1872, page 69,
now Sections 3173 and 3211 of the Revised Statutes of
Missouri, 1909, and section 12 of Article 12 of the Constitution of Missouri, 1875, and that said sections are
null and void and of no legal force and effect for the
following reasons:
"(a). Because said sections 3173 and 3211 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri, 1909, when enacted by the
Legislature were passed in violation of Section 32 of Article 4 of the Constitution of Missouri, 1865, in this:
"(b). Because said Sections 3173 and 3211 are repugnant to and in violation of Section 14 of Article 12 of the
Constitution of Missouri, 1875, in this: . .
"(c). Because said Sections 3173 and 3211 Revised
Statutes of Missouri, 1909, when re-enacted by the Legislature in 1879, were not legally re-enacted but were
enacted in violation of Section 28 of Article 4 of the Constitution of Missouri, 1875, in this: .
"(d). Because said Sections 3173 and 3211 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri, 1909, were repealed by an Act
of the Legislature passed in 1887 entitled, 'An Act to
Regulate Railroad Corporations,' passed at the extra session of 1887, same being found in the Session Laws of 1887
at page 15, now Sections 3185 and 3193 of the Revised
Statutes, 1909.
"For further answer to said count, the defendant says
that Section 12 of Article 12 of the Constitution of Missouri, 1875, and Sections 3173 and 3211 and Sections 3185
and 3193 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri, 1909, are in
violation of Section 1 of Article 14 of the Amendments to
the Constitution of the United States in this: That said

MISSOURI PACIFIC RY. CO. v. McGREW COAL CO. 195
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

sections of the Constitution of Missouri and of the Revised Statutes of Missouri, deprive defendant df its property without due process of law and deny to it the equal
protection of the laws.
c .
Sections 3173 and 3211 of the Revised
Statutes of Missouri, 1909, are repugnant to and in violation of Article 5 of the Amendments to the Constitution
of the United States in this: That said sections deprive the
defendant of its property without due process of law.
( .
Sections 3173 and 3211 and Sections 3185
and 3193 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri, 1909, and
Section 12 of Article 12 of the Constitution of Missouri,
1875, are in conflict with Section 8 of Article 1 of the Constitution of the United States and the various laws passed
by Congress thereunder in this: That the said defendant
is engaged in interstate commerce and owns and operates
various lines of railroad as a part of its system which run
into other states than Missouri and into the States of
Kansas, Colorado, Nebraska, Oklahoma, Illinois, Arkansas
and Louisiana, and that the train in which the plaintiff's
property described in said count was being transported was
at the time engaged in interstate commerce and contained
car load lots and shipments of merchandise consigned and
being carried from points without the State of Missouri
to points within this state, and from points within this
state to points without the same and from points without
this state across the State of Missouri and to points in other
states, and that by reason of the premises this state is
without jurisdiction to adopt and pass the sections
herein named and to enforce the provisions of the same
against this defendant while so engaged in interstate
commerce.
"CSections
3173 and 3211 and Sections 3185
and 3193 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri, 1909, and
Section 12 of Article 12 of the Constitution of Missouri,
1875, are in conflict with Section 8 of Article 1 of the Con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

stitution of the United States and the various laws passed
by Congress thereunder in this: That the defendant's
railroad is an interstate road and its lines extend over and
through the States of Missouri, Kansas, Colorado, Nebraska, Illinois, Oklahoma, Arkansas and Louisiana, and
that it is engaged in interstate commerce over its said lines
through all of said states and operates trains over the
same in transporting freight and passengers through said
States; that said section of the Constitution of Missouri
and sections of the Revised Statutes seek to compel the
defendant arbitrarily to fix its rates in this State and in all
of said States and in comparison with rates existing in all
such States without regard to the laws passed by Congress
regulating 'interstate commerce.
t .
Defendant denies each and every allegation therein contained.

.

"

Upon motion, the trial court struck from the answer "all
alleged defenses pleaded to each of the counts in the petition except the traverses." No evidence was offered except the stipulation quoted below:
"It is hereby stipulated between the parties that the
defendant's stations, the rates charged by the defendant,
including those paid by the plaintiff, the amount of coal
transported and the distance set out in the several counts
of the petition are correctly stated therein. It is fusther
stipulated that such coal was delivered by the plaintiff
to the defendant for shipment in the usual and ordinary
way without any direction or request by plaintiff as to
what particular trains the same was to be transported in
and that the defendant received and transported the same
in the usual and ordinary course of business, on the usual
trains passing over its road. It is further agreed that the
trains in which the defendant hauled said cars of coal contained other cars and shipments consigned from points
within this state to points without the same, from points
without the same to points within this state and from

MISSOURI PACIFIC RY. CO. v. McGREW COAL CO. 197
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

points without this state through this state and to points
in other states."
. A jury being waived, the court rendered judgment upon
each count for alleged overcharge, without penalty,on the first count $130.05, total upon all $16,504.19; and
this action the state Supreme Court affirmed. 178 S. W.
Rep. 1179.
The insistence here is that, as construed and applied
§ 12, Article XII Missouri constitution (1875), and, also,
§§ 3173 and 3211, Revised Statutes (1909), deprive plaintiff
in error of property without due process of law and deny
it equal protection, contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment, and, also, conflict with § 8, Article 1, Federal Constitution.
Sections 3173 and 3211 originated in the Act of 1872.
The first provides that no railroad corporation organized
or doing business 'within the State shall "charge or collect,
for the transportation of goods, merchandise or property
over any portion of its road, a greater amount as toll or
compensation than shall be charged or collected by it for
the transportation of similar quantities of the same class
of goods, merchandise or property over any other portion of its road of equal distance." And the second
prescribes a penalty for violating the first, not exceeding
one thousand dollars with costs, etc., to be recovered by
aggrieved party.
The Supreme Court declared "each count of the petition
is in legal effect identical with the counts of the petition in
McGrew v. Railroad, 258 Mo. 23, and with those in the
cases between the same parties cited in the opinion in
that case, . . . differing only in amounts, dates and
destination of shipments and in distances used for purposes of comparison. . . . The assignments of error
in this case, in legal effect, and the points and authorities,
verbatim, are identical with those in that case. The
authorities cited are exactly the same." And upon the

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

opinion in the cause referred to, it affirmed the trial
court.
In McGrew v. Missouri PacificRy. Co., 258 Missouri, 23,

the court followed James C. McGrew v. Missouri Pacific
Ry. Co., 230 Missouri, 496, where (the issues being the
same as those here presented), after considering the whole
subject, it was held that plaintiff's judgment could be
sustained under § 12, Article XII, constitution of Missouri (1875) without reliance upon any statute. The
court said (230 Missouri, 546): "The petition was framed
upon the Act of 1872, but in view of the fact that the trial
court denied the penalties asked, and allowed only the
difference between the higher rates charged plaintiff and
the lower rates charged by defendant for the longer distances, the judgment could be sustained upon section 12
of article 12 of the Constitution, without the aid of the
Act of 1872, provided that said section of the Constitution
is self-enforcing. Because if said section is self-enforcing,
that is to say, if it, without the aid of any statutory enactment, makes it unlawful for a railroad company to charge
more for a shorter hhul than a longer one of the same class
of property in any direction, the same or not, and under
any or all circumstances and conditions, then clearly the
measure of damages for doing the unlawful thing, in the
absence of any statute upon the subject, is the amount of
the excess charged for the shorter distance. over that
charged for the longer distance."
(561.) "Section 12 of article 12 of our Constitution
clearly establishes an unconditional short-haul rule,
without regard to direction or to circumstances and conditions. Said section declares that it shall be unlawful for
any railroad company to charge for the transportation of
freight or passengers a greater amount for a less distance
than 'the amount charged for any greater distance.' That
declaration establishes a rule, and creates a right in every
passenger and shipper to a compliance with, and an

MISSOURI PACIFIC RY CO. v. McGREW COAL CO. 199
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

obedience to its terms.
. .
Said section has the same
force and effect as if it read: 'It shall not be lawful in this
State for any railroad company to charge, under penalties
which the General Assembly shall prescribe, for freight or
passengers a greater amount for the transportation of the
same, for a less distance than the amount charged for any
greater distance.' Had said section read that way, its
effect as an operative law would have been too clear for
controversy. To my mind it is equally clear under the
present reading."
In view of this ruling, it is unnecessary for us to consider either terms, validity, or possible application of sections of Revised Statutes mentioned'in the answer.
Section 12, Article XII, constitution of Missouri provides: "It shall not be lawful in this State for any railway
company to charge for freight or passengers a greater
amount, for the transportation of the same, for a less distance than the amount charged for any greater distance;
and suitable laws shall be passed by the General Assembly
to enforce this provision; but excursion and commutation
tickets may be issued at special rates." As construed and
applied in the present cause, this section prohibits the
carrier from charging in respect of intrastate commerce
more for a shorter haul than for a longer one over any
portion of its line within the State without regard to direction, circumstance or condition; and if this inhibition is
disobeyed the shipper acquires an absolute right to recover
any overcharge paid by him.
The record does not disclose when plaintiff in error was
incorporated, or what provisions its charter contains.
There is no suggestion of anything therein amounting to
a contract exempting it from legislation commonly within
the police power. No claim is made that the cost of moving freight over its lines in Missouri is without substantial
relation to distance; and no facts are alleged which indicate material differences between conditions and cir-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabu.

244 U. S.

cumstances under which the hauls from mines at Myrick
were made and those surrounding the longer shipments
for less charges over other portions of the road.
Arguments identical in principle with those now presented to show invalidity of the inhibition under consideration, because of conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment
and interference with interstate commerce, were consfdered and rejected in Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co.
v. Kentucky, 183 U. S. 503, approved in Intermountain
Rate Cases, 234 U. S. 476, 489. And we think it must be
accepted as settled that unless some controlling circumstance of a character not here disclosed is established, or a
special protecting contract exists, there is nothing in the
provisions of the Federal Constitution or laws presently
relied on which necessarily restricts the power of a State
by general rule to prohibit railway companies from receiving higher charges for shorter hauls than for longer
ones when both are wholly within its borders. Such a
prohibition is not necessarily an arbitrary, unreasonable
or grossly oppressive measure for preventing discriminations and insuring equal and just treatment to all shippers.
We find no error in the judgment below, and it is
Affirmed.

MISSOURI, PACIFIC

RAILWAY

COMPANY

v.

TABER, GUARDIAN OF SMALL ET AL.
ERROR TO THiE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 760. Submitted April 10, 1917.-Decided May 21, 1917.
The claim that the Federal Employers' Liability Act should have
governed the action will not afford jurisdiction under Judicial Code,
§ 237, where the action was originally based upon a state statute
and the federal act was not set up or relied upon in the answer or

