CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.

EWING, COMMISSIONER OF PATENTS, v. UNITED
STATES EX REL. FOWLER CAR COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 721.

Argued April 17, 1917.-Decided May 7, 1917.

When an applicant for a patent admits that the invention shown in his.
application was made at a date subsequent to the date upon which
another application for the same invention was filed, and by amendment of his application adopts the prior applicant's claims, he thereby
concedes the priority of the other's invention, its utility and the
sufficiency of the claims.
In such a case the Commissioner of Patents can not be required by
mandamus to declare an interference.
Under Rev. Stats., § 4904, the duty of the Commissioner to declare an
interference arises only when, in the exercise of his judgment upon
the facts presented, he is of opinion that a senior application will be
interfered with by a junior one; the mere fact that the junior application covers the same ground or that the junior applicant asserts an
interference is not enough to require the Commissioner to act.
The judicial remedy for determining priority of invention is by suit in
equity between the parties, not by mandamus against the Commissioner in an attempt to control the administrative discretion conferred upon him by Rev. Stats., § 4904.
45 App. D. C. 185, reversed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Statement of the Case.

244 U. S.

THIS writ is directed to a judgment of the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia which affirmed a judgment of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia
in mandamus commanding the Commissioner of Patents
"to declare or direct to be declared an interference between the application of William E. Fowler, Sr., filed
May 22, 1915, for Improvements in Car Floor Construction, and the application for a similar invention" of an
unnamed applicant "pursuant to the statute and rules
in such cases made and provided."
The judgment was rendered upon motion of petitioner's
attorney upon the petition, rule to show cause and answer.
It was affirmed by the Court of Appeals.
As the Fowler Car Company and Ewing, Commissioner
of Patents, were petitioner and respondent, respectively,
in the court below, we shall so designate them here.
The facts as stated by the petition are as follows:
William E. Fowler, Sr., was the first and original inventor of certain new and useful improvements in car
floor construction.
On May 22, 1915, he applied for a patent in the usual
form and manner and his application was accepted and
became known and designated as application serial No.
29794.
On May 19, 1915, he duly. assigned his right, title and
interest in the invention to the Fowler Car Company, which
company appointed Charles C. Linthicum its attorney.
On November 18, 1915, the Commissioner of Patents
wrote to Linthicum stating that "there is another application pending, claiming substantially the same invention
as that defined" in certain of the claims which were set
out. He further stated: "In order to determine whether
it is necessary to declare an interference you are requested
to obtain a statement from Fowler setting forth when he
conceived the invention defined in the above quoted
claims, when he disclosed it to others, and when he re-

EWING v. FOWLER CAR CO.
244 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

duced it to practice. This statement will not be made a
part of the record and will be returned to you."
Fowler replied that he had 'conceived the subject-matter
of the claim quoted in the Commissioner's letter on or
about April 16, 1915, disclosed the same to others and
made drawings on or about the same date but had not
reduced the same to practice by constructing any fullsized devices.

On November 23, 1915, Linthicum filed an amendment
to Fowler's application in which all of-the claims suggested
by the Commissioner were inserted. Of these claims
Linthicum said: "It is thought that these claims appear
in a co-pending application and they are inserted at this
time with the request that, if such claims do appear in a
co-pending application an interference be declared."
To this communication the Commissioner replied as
follows:
"Sir: Enclosed please find the statement of William E.
Fowler, Sr., made in response to the request in my letter
of November 18, 1915.
"The dates of invention claimed by Fowler are subsequent by several months to the filing date of the application of the other party. The other party's case will be
passed to issue as soon as possible and when patented will
be cited as a reference against such claims in Fowler's
application as it may be found to anticipate. An interference will not be declared."
Section 483, Rev. Stats., provides: "The Commissioner
of Patents, subject to the approval of the Secretary of the
Interior, may from time to time establish regulations, not
inconsistent with law, for the conduct of proceedings in the
PatentOffice."
Pursuant to this authority regulations known as" Rules
of Practice in the United States Patent Office" have been
established by the Commissioner by and with the ap-

proval of the Secretary of the Interior and now govern

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Statement of the Case.

244 U. S.

the declaration of interferences between pending conflicting applications and have the force and effect of law,
binding as well upon the Commissioner as upon the
applicant for patents.
It is further alleged that it clearly appears from the
correspondence recited and under the statute and rules
that an interference exists between the Fowler application
and that of the applicant unknown to petitioner, which
applications disclose and claim the same patentable invention and it is the duty of the Commissioner to declare
an-interference and to call upon each applicant for the
sworn preliminary statement required by Rule 110.
That if the unknown applicant receive a patent and
thereafter petitioner's (Fowler's) application is put in
interference with it and petitioner afterwards be awarded
priority over the unknown applicant and receive a patent,
in order to get rid of the menace of the outstanding patent
to such unknown applicant petitioner will have to file a
bill in equity under the provisions of § 4918, Rev. Stats.,
for the cancellation of such patent or the owner of the
outstanding patent'may file such bill against petitioner,
all of which possibility of litigation may be prevented if
the Commissioner be required to discharge his plain duty
under the statute and rules and declare an interference
when the rights of both parties are in the application
stage and before either party receives a patent. That
conduct of the Commissioner is a matter of public concern and for over a quarter of a century his predecessors
have, without exception, regarded the interference rules
as imposing upon them the legal duty of declaring an
interference under the circumstances detailed. And petitioner is advised and believes that unless the Commissioner be restrained a patent in due course will be issued
to the unknown applicant and petitioner is without remedy
unless the court by writ of mandamus shall interpose in
its behalf.

EWING v. FOWLER. CAR CO.
244 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Mandamus was prayed.
A rule to show cause was issued and the Commissioner's
action stayed until the determination of the cause.
The Commissioner in his answer admitted the filing of
the applications as alleged and the. correspondence with
Linthicum, but denied the legal conclusion drawn by
petitioner therefrom. He alleged that an interference as
defined by the rules of the patent office is a proceeding
for the purpose of determining the question of priority
of invention and that when an applicant informs the office
that the invention shown in his application was made at a
date which was subsequent to the date upon which another application for the same invention was filed, the
statute does not require that an interference be established
between his application and the prior application. That
in asking the later applicant to inform the office of the date
of its invention the Commissioner was only asking for
information upon which he might form, as required by
§ 4904, Rev. Stats., an opinion whether a situation existed
where the statute required that the later application
should be put into interference with the earlier application, and that the rules do not require or contemplate a
declaration of interference where it is known that the
later applicant made his invention subsequently to the
filing of the earlier application; in other words, they do
not contemplate the declaration of an interference except
where there is a possible conflict in the dates of invention.
The answer further denied that petitioner had shown
injury or threatened injury and alleged that the only injury averred.in the petition was that if the applicatiQn of
petitioner be put in interference with the patent granted
upon the other application, and if priority should be
awarded to petitioner and a patent granted to it a bill in
equity under § 4k18, Rev. Stats., would be necessary to
get rid of the menace of the outstanding patent. Tha1 the
date of Fowler's invention being subsequent. to the filing

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

date of the other party, there would be no ground of
awarding priority to Fowler. That even if interference
should be declared, "a litigation to be conducted between
the application owned by the petitioner and the patent
issued to the other party would be no longer or more expensive than a litigation to be conducted between the two
applications. No suit could be brought under section 4918
of the Revised Statutes either by or against this petitioner,
unless it were proved that Fowlerwas the first inventor
and a patent issued to him; but, as above stated, the date
upon which Fowler states he conceived the invention is
subsequent to the date upon which the other application
was filed."
There was detail of the business of the Patent Office
and of the inconvenience to its administration if the right
insisted upon by petitioner were allowed.
A discharge of the rule was prayed.
The Solicitor General, with whom Mr. Assistant Attorney
General Warren and Mr. R. F. Whitehead were on the brief,
for petitioner.
Mr. George L. Wilkinson, with whom Mr. Melville
Church was on the brief, for respondent.
MCKENNA, after stating the case as above,
delivered the opinion of the court.
MR. JUSTICE

The case is not in broad compass. It depends upon a
few simple elements. Section 4904, Rev. Stats., provides:
"Whenever an application is made for a patent which,
in the opinion of the Commissioner, would interfere with
any pending application, or with any unexpired patent,
he shall give notice thereof to the applicants, or applicant
and patentee, as the case may be, and shall direct the
primary examiner to proceed to determine the question

EWING v. FOWLER CAR CO.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the priority of invention. And the Commissioner may
issue a patent to the party who is adjudged the prior inventor, unless the adverse party appeals from the decision
of the primary examiner, or of the board of examiners-inchief, as the case may be, within such time, not less than
twenty days, as the Commissioner shall prescribe."
The duty prescribed by this section and the other duties
of the Commissioner, it was provided (§ 483, Rev. Stats.),
might be regulated by rules established by the Commissioner, subject to the approval of the Secretary of the
Interior. And rules were established. They define an
interference to be a proceeding instituted for the purpose
of determining the question of priority of invention between two or more parties claiming the same patentable
invention (Rule 9) and provide that an interference shall
be declared between two or more original applications
containing conflicting claims (Rule 94). Before the declaration of an interference all preliminary questions must
be settled by the primary examiner, the issue clearly defined and the claims put in such condition that they will
not require alteration (Rule 95). Whenever the claims of
the co-pending applications differ in phraseology they
must be brought to expression substantially in the same
language and claims may be suggested to the applicants
and if not followed the invention covered by them shall
be considered as disclaimed. The declaration of an interference will not be delayed by the failure of a party to put
his claim in condition for allowance (Rule 96). Each
party to the interference will be required to file a concise
statement, under oath, showing (1) the date of original
conception of his invention, (2) the date upon which a
drawing of it was made, (3) the date of its disclosure to
others, (4) the date of its reduction to practice, (5) the
extent of its use, and (6) the date and number of any
foreign application. If a drawing has not been made or
the invention has not been reduced to practice or dis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

closed. to others or used to any extent, the statement must
specifically disclose these facts (Rule 110).
Priority of invention is necessarily the essential thing,
and to determine it interference proceedings are provided.
But are they considered as a matter of course on the mere
assertion or appearance of a conflict? Upon the answer
to the question the controversy here turns. The Commissioner contends for a negative answer and supports the
contention by the language of § 4904 reinforced by the
assertion that there is no necessity for proceedings to
determine what is already apparent as in the pending case
by the admission of respondent. The mere fact of asserted
antagonism does not put the proceedings'in motion is the
contention. There must be the precedent and superintending judgment of the Commissioner. The law requires,
it is said, his opinion to be exercised upon the effect of a
conflict in applications, and such indeed is the language of
§ 4904. It provides that "whenever an application is
made for a patent which, in the opinion of the Commissioner, would interferewith any pending application. . .
he shall give notice thereof . . . and shall direct the
primary examiner to proceed to determine the question
of priority of invention.'
In. opposition to this view petitioner replies that the
only fact upon which the Commissioner is to exercise an
opinion is the fact of the conflict in the applications, and,
that fact ascertained, the, duty is imperative upon the
Commissioner to declare an interference. "Interference,"
it is aid, "isa question of fact; it exists or it does not
exist. If it exists then priority must be. determined in
the way pointed out by the statute and the rules." Other
conditions than priority in time determine priority of
invention, it is insisted; that the rules of the Patent Office
and. the motions for which they provide contemplate such
conditions, and that in twenty-five years of practice under
them "the question of interference in fact, the question

EWING v. FOWLER CAR CO.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of seniority of the parties, the patentability of the clain
to one or the other, and a number of other questions became inter partes, and it often happens that the interference is dissolved because of mistake in declaring it or
the burden of proof shifted on the ground that the senior
party is not entitled to his original filing date as his effective date for the reason that he did not disclose the invention in his case as originally filed, or that his application discloses an inoperative embodiment of the invention,
or that he was not entitled to make the claims, or that the
junior party had an earlier filed case disclosing the invention, or that the issues as formed did not apply to the
structures of the two parties."
The result of the practice is declared to be that it "prevents a judgment of record based solely upon an ex parte
consideration by the Commissioner and affords each of
the parties an opportunity to contest the right of the other
party to a judgment."
If there are such possibilities in some interferences they
are precluded in petitioner's case. Seven claims of a
prior application were adduced by the Commissioner as
making a conflict with the invention claimed by petitioner. The latter, through its attorney, adopted six
of the claims and directed that they be inserted in its
application. It did not intimate the existence of any
circumstances which would overcome the priority of invention as determined by the difference in times of the
conceptions of the contending applicants.
The conceptions were thus established to be identical
and that that of Fowler did not come to him until some
months after the filing of the other application. And it is
to be observed that the priority was complete. There was
not only the precedent conception but there was its expression in claims; and that it was practical, a useful gift
to the world, petitioner concedes by adopting the claims.
There were, therefore, all of the elements of a completed

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

invention--one perfected before the filing of petitioner's
application-all that the preliminary statement required
by Rule 110 could disclose.
This, then, was the situation presented to the Commissioner. There was nothing shown to change it, there is
nothing alleged in the petition for mandamus to change
it, and there is only urged that an experience of twentyfive years has demonstrated that in interference proceedings circumstances may be shown that determine against
the date of filing or the claim of invention.
If it could be conceded that there is antagonism between § 4904, and the rules, the former must prevail.
Steinmetz v. Allen, 192 U. S. 543, 565. But there is no
antagonism. The former provides that "whenever an
application is made for a patent which, in the opinion of
the Commissioner, would interfere with any pending
application . . . he shall direct the primary examiner to proceed to determine the question of priority of
invention." The section, therefore, commits to the opinion (judgment) of the Commissioner the effect of an application upon a pending one--whether it will interfere
with a pending one; something more, therefore, than the
fact of two applications, something more than the mere
assertion of a claim. The assertion must be, in the opinion of the Commissioner, an interference with another.
And it is this other that is first in regard, not to be questioned except at the instance of the Commissioner by an
exercise of judgment upon the circumstances. And there
is no defeat of ultimate rights; there may be postponement
of their assertion remitted to a suit in equity under § 4918.
But anterior to such relief petitioner contends that
"there is a fundamental and basic right of opposition on
the part of any applicant, whether junior or senior, to
prevent the wrongful grant of a patent to his opponent."
It is further contended that the declaration of an interference and the motions which are permitted to be made

EWING v. FOWLER CAR CO.
244 U. S.

11

Opinion of the Codrt.

under the rules "prevent a judgment of record based
solely upon an ex parte consideration by the Commissioner
and affords each of the parties an opportunity to contest
the right of the other party to a judgment." There indeed
seems to be a less personal right claimed, the right of
opposition in the interest of the public, displacing the
superintendency of the Commissioner constituted by the
law. It is to be remembered that the law gives the Commissioner both initial and final power. It is he who is to
cause the examination of an asserted invention or discovery and to judge of its utility and importance; 1 it is he
who is to judge (be of opinion) whether an application
will interfere with a pending one; 2 and it is he who, after
an interference is declared and proceedings had, is the
final arbiter of its only controversy, priority of invention.3
The contentions of petitioner put these powers out of
view, put out of view the fact that the so-called "judgment
of record" is, as the action of the Commissioner may be
said to be, but a matter of administration. A suit in
equity may follow and be instituted by either party and
even in it nothing can be determined but priority of
invention. "There is but one issue of fact in an interference suit. That issue relates to the dates wherein the
interfering matter was respectively invented by the interfering inventors. If the complainant's invention is the
older, the defendant's interfering claim is void for want
of novelty. And the complainant's interfering claim is
void for want of novelty, if the defendant's invention is
found to antedate the other." Walker on Patents, § 317,
3d ed.
Such suit, therefore, is the judicial remedy the law provides. Section 4904 concerns and regulates the administration of the Patent Office, and the utility of the disI Section 4893, Rev. Stats.; BuUworth v. Hoe, 112 U. S. 50.
Section 4904.
'Section 4910.
2

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

244 U. S.

cretion conferred upon the Commissioner is demonstrated
by his answer in this case.
Judgment reversed ard case remanded with instructions to
reverse the judgment of the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia and direct it to discharge the rule and dismiss the petition.

THE KRONPRINZESSIN CECILIE. 1
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.
No. 922. Argued April 16, 17, 1917.-Decided May 7, 1917.
Upon the facts stated in the opinion, Held, that the master and owners
of the German Steamship "Kronprinzessin Cecilie" were justified
in apprehending that she would be seized as a prize, and her German
and other passengers detained, if she completed her voyage to Plymouth and Cherbourg on the eve of the present war; that return to
this country before Plymouth was reached was a reasonable and justifiable precaution; and that libelants have no cause of action for
failure to deliver their shipments of gold at those ports, although,
semble, the risk did not fall within the exception of "arrest and restraint of princes, rulers or people" expressed in their. bills of lading.
In an ordinary contract of carriage, not made in the expectation that
war may intervene before delivery, peril of belligerent capture affords
an implied exception to the carrier's undertaking, the contract being
silent on the subject.
The court rejects the argument that although a shipowner may give
up the voyage to avoid capture after war is declared he is never at
liberty to anticipate war; and holds that where war is reasonably
and correctly anticipated, liability for non-delivery of freight can
not depend upon a nice calculation that delivery might have been
made and capture avoided if the voyage had gone on.
238 Fed. Rep. 668, reversed.
The docket title of this case is: North German Lloyd, Claimant of
the Steamship "Kronprinzessin Cecilie," Petitioner, v. Guaranty Trust
Company of New York and National City Bank of New York.

