NEVADA-CALIFORNIA-OREGON RY. v. BURRUS. 103
244 U. S.

Syllabus.

The injunction asked by the plaintiffs forbade only the
disclosure of processes claimed by them, including the
disclosure to experts or witnesses* produced during the
taking of proofs-but excepting the defendant's counsel.
Some broader and ambiguous words that crept into the
decree, seemingly by mistake, may be taken as stricken
out and left on one side. This injunction would not prevent the defendant from directing questions that should
bring out whatever public facts were nearest to the alleged
secrets. Indeed it is hard to see why it does not leave the
plaintiffs' rights somewhat illusory. No very clear ground
as yet has been shown for going further. But the judge
who tries the case will know the secrets, and if in his
opinion and discretion it should be advisable and necessary
to take in others, nothing will prevent his doing so. It
will be understood that if, in the opinion of the trial judge,
it is or should become necessary to reveal the secrets to.
others it will rest in the judge's discretion to determine
whether, to whom, and under what precautions, the revelation should be made.
Decree reversed and case remandedfor further proceedings
in conformity with this opinion.

NEVADA-CALIFORNIA-OREGON

RAILWAY

v.

BURRUS.
ERROR TO THE 'SUPREME COURT O THE STATE OF NEVADA.
No. 237. Submitted April 30, 1917.-Decided May 21, 1917.
In an action against a carrier for breach of a contract to furnish an
interstate train, the defendant objected when the tria! opened that
no rate for such trains had been filed with the Interstate Commerce
Commission and, while the trial was in progress. offered an amend-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

ment to the answer, setting up this defense. Under the state practice
the defense was not cognizable unless pleaded, and the amendment,
not having been suggested until months after the commencement
of the action while other defenses had been interposed, was rejected
by the state trial court as coming too' late, and this ruling was
affirmed by the State Supreme Court as a proper exercise of the trial
court'i discretion. It being evident that the decision merely enforced
the state *practice with no purpose to evade the claim of federal
right, Held, that a writ of error from this court must be dismissed.
In the trial of an action against a carrier upon a contract for interstate
transportation the plaintiff may be entitled to the presumption that
the carrier filed such rates as were requisite to sustain the contract,
the pleadings being silent on the subject.
Writ of error to review 38 Nevada, 156, dismissed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. James Glynn for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Sardis Summerfield and Mr. John E. Raker for
defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action for breach of a contract to furnish
plaintiff, (defendant in error,) a special train to carry him
from Reno, Nevada, to Doyle, California, where his son
was ill, and to bring the two back from that place. The
plaintiff got a judgment, and the only question before us
is whether any rights of the defendant under the Act to
Regulate Commerce have been infringed. The ground
on which such an infraction is alleged is that the trial
court, after the trial had been going on for more than a
day, refused to allow the answer to be amended so as to set
up that no tariff rate for special trains had been filed by
the defendant and that therefore the contract was illegal.
The defendant had mentioned the point at the beginning
of the trial but this was the first time that it was presented

NEVADA-CALIFORNIA-OREGON RY. v. BURRUS. 105
244 U. S.

Dissent.

in proper form under the state practice, although some
months had elapsed since the beginning of the suit and
demurrers and other defences had been interposed without suggesting this one. The Supreme Court of the State
declined to overrule the discretionary judgment of the
court below. 38 Nevada; 156.
Upon the question whether a claim of immunity under
a statute of the United States has been asserted in the
proper manner under the state system of pleading and
practice "the decision of the state court is binding upon
this court, when it is clear, as it is in this case, that such
decision is not rendered in a spirit of evasion for the purpose of defeating the claim of federal right." Atlantic
Coast Line R. R. Co. v. Mims, 242 U. S. 532, 535. The
most that could be said in this case was that the Supreme
Court was influenced in its judgment by the fact that the
railroad, after treating the plaintiff very badly, was trying
to escape liability by an afterthought upon, a debatable
point of law-not at all by the fact that the law involved
was federal. The plaintiff had tried the case relying upon
the presumption which was sufficient as the pleadings
stood. Cincinnati, New Orleans & Texas Pacific Ry. Co.
v. Rankin, 241 U. S. 319. The court reasonably might
decline to put him to procuring other evidence from a
distance, on tlte last day of the trial, upon a new issue
presented after his evidence was in. We perceive no
reason why this court should interfere with the practice
of the State.
Writ of error dismissed.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE CLARKE dissent.

