OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

244 U. S.

The question remains whether the writ of error can be
maintained. The record discloses the facts but does not
disclose the claim of right under the Fourteenth Amendment until the assignment of errors filed the day before
the Chief Justice of the State granted this writ. Of course
ordinarily that would not be enough. But when the act
complained of is the act of the Supreme Court, done unexpectedly at the end of the proceeding, when the plaintiff in error no longer had any right to add to the record,
it would leave a serious gap in the remedy for infraction
of constitutional rights if the party aggrieved in such a
way could not come here. The defendant was not bound
to contemplate a decision of the case before his evidence
was heard and therefore was not bound to ask a ruling
or to take other precautions in advance. The denial Of
rights given by the Fourteenth Amendment need not be
by legislation. Home Telephone & Telegraph Co. v. Los
Angeles, 227 U. S. 278. It appears that shortly after the
Supreme Court had declined to entertain the petition for
rehearing the plaintiff in error brought the claim of constitutional right -to'the attention of the Chief Justice of
the State by his assignment of errors. We do not see what
more he could have done.
Judgment reversed.

ERIE RAILROAD COMPANY v. PURUCKER, ADMINISTRATRIX OF MARIETTA.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS

OF RICHLAND COUNTY,

STATE OF OHIO.

No. 211.

Argued April 23, 1917.-Decided June 4, 1917.

A request to charge must be calculated to give the jury an accurate
understanding of the law with reference to the phase of the case to
which it is applicable.

ERIE R. R. CO. v. PUILUCKER.
244 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

Plaintiff, employed to work upon the tracks: of a railroad company,
while walking east on the east-bound track to a place of work appointed by his superior, stepped over'to the west-bound track to
avoid an east-bound train and was run down by an engine backing,
without warning signals, on the west-bound track, and was injured.
There was evidence that he did not see the engine because of steam
and smoke from 'the avoided train and that those in charge of the
backing engine did not see him. Held: (1) That a request to charge
that if plaintiff was using the tracks voluntarily for his convenience
he assumed the risk, was too broad, in ignoring the circumstances
which induced him to use them and in taking for granted his knowledge of the conditions, especially the possibility of negligence in
backing the engine without warning. (2) That a request to charge
that, if plaintiff, in getting off the track on which he saw the train
approaching, could with safety and reasonable convenience have
stepped to the right or south of such track, and by his own choice
stepped on the other track and was struck by a train thereon, he
assumed the risk of such choice--was open to the same objections
in not covering the elements of assumed risk, and was more properly
applicable to the defense of contributory negligence.
Under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, an employee does not
assume a risk attributable to the negligence of his co-employees until
he is aware of it, unless the risk is so obvious that an ordinarily
prudent person in his situation would observe and appreciate it.
Affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. C. E. McBride, with whom Mr. N. M. Wolfe was
on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. W. S. Kerr for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

Byron B. Marietta brought this suit against the Erie
Railroad Company, to recover damages for injuries alleged
to have been caused to him by the negligence of the Company. He died pending this proceeding in error and the
case was revived in the name of his administratrix.
Marietta was what is known as a section man in the em-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

ploy of the Company, and had been such for a period
of about four weeks before the injury happened. It was
his duty to work on the track of the Company wherever
directed by the section foreman on the section extending
from Pavonia, in Richland County, Ohio, westward for a
distance of several miles. The Erie Railroad Company
was engaged in both interstate and intrastate commerce.
The testimony shows that it was customary for the section
foreman to direct Marietta where to work and to tell him
on the previous day where to report for work on the following day. On the day before the injury was incurred, he
was directed by the foreman to report at a point on the
section about a quarter of a mile east of a certain tower,
located upon the defendant's track. Early on the morning
of the day of the injury, he started from his residence to
report to the foreman accordingly. It appears that at and
near the place of injury the Company has a double track;
that the north track is used for trains going west and the
south track for trains going east; that the plaintiff in
going to the place designated went upon the south track
and was walking eastwardly, when a passenger train
bound east came upon this track, and to get out of the
way of it he stepped over upon the north or west-bound
track; that while walking on that track he was struck and
run over by an engine which was running backward and
in the opposite direction from that in which trains ordinarily ran upon the north track. This engine had been
detached from a train of cars and after pushing another
train up a grade on the west-bound track was returning
to its own train at the time of the injury. Marietta testified that he had no warning and did not see the approaching engine owing to steam and smoke from the passenger
train, which had just passed upon the other track The engineer and fireman of the backing engine testified that
they did not see Marietta until after he was run over by
the engine and gave no signal or warning of its approach.

ERIE R. R. CO. v. PURUCKER.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The case was brought, and by the state court was tried,
under the state law. No objection reviewable in this court
involves the correctness of the charge of the trial court
submitting the questions of negligence and contributory
negligence to the jury. The Company brings the case
here because it contends that it alleged and showed that
it was an interstate railroad, engaged in the carriage of
freight and passengers between States, and that the train
of cars from which the engine which struck Marietta was
detached and to which it was returning was engaged in
interstate commerce; that inasmuch as he was a section
man or track man, employed to work upon the track of an
interstate railroad, and was proceeding to his work at the
time of his injury, both parties were engaged in interstate commerce and the Federal Employers' Liability
Act applied to the case, and that because of the refusal
of the trial court to charge as to assumption of risk
the Company was deprived of the benefit of that defense.
The Court of Appeals treated the case as one controlled
by the state law, and held that the Employers' Liability
Act did not apply, as in its view Marietta was not engaged at the time of his injury in interstate commerce,
and affirmed the ruling of the trial court in refusing the
two requests to charge which are the basis of the assignments of error in this court. These requests were: (1) "If
tho plaintiff, for his own convenience, voluntarily went
along the tracks of the railroad, and this railroad was being
at the time used and operated as a highway of interstate
commerce, he assumed the risk and danger of so using
the tracks"; and (2) "If the plaintiff in getting off the
track on which he saw a train approaching could with
safety and reasonable convenience have stepped to the
right or south of such track, and by his own choice stepped
on to a parallel track and was struck by a train on such
parallel track, he assumed the risk of such choice." The

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

refusal to give these requests raises the only federal question in the case.
Conceding, without deciding, that the Federal Employers' Liability Act applied to the circumstances of this
case, nevertheless the two requests were properly refused.
A request to charge must be calculated to give the jury
an accurate understanding of the law having reference to
the phase of the case to which it is applicable. Norfolk &
Western Ry. Co. v. Earnest, 229 U. S. 114, 119. The first
request simply asked a broad charge that if the plaintiff
voluntarily, for his own convenience, went upon the tracks
of the railroad, and the railroad was at the time being used
and operated as a highway of interstate commerce, he
assumed the risk and danger of so using the tracks. This
request omitted elements essential to make assumption
of risk applicable to the case. It failed to call attention
to the circumstances under which the testimony tended
to show the plaintiff was using the tracks at the time, and
the knowledge of conditions which should have been taken
into consideration in order to attribute assumption of risk
to him. It failed to take into account the undisputed
testimony that the engine ran into Marietta without signal
or warning to him. Under such circumstances the injured
man would not assume the risk attributable to the negligent operation of the train, if the jury found it to be such,
unless the consequent danger was so obvious that an
ordinarily prudent person in his situation would have
observed and appreciated it. Chesapeake & Ohio Ry.
Co. v. De Atley, 241 U. S. 310, 313, 314; Chesapeake
& Ohio Ry. Co. v. Proffitt, 241 U. S. 462, 468, and cases
cited.
The second request pertained to the conduct of the
plaintiff, in view of the particular situation, and what he
should have done to protect his safety, considering his
danger at the time, and is open to the same objections.
This request did not cover the elements of assumed risk

FARMERS IRRIG. DIST. v. O'SHEA.
244 U. S.

Syllabus.

and was more properly applicable to the defense of contributory negligence, concerning which the court must
be presumed to have given proper instructions to the

jury.
Affirmed.

FARMERS IRRIGATION DISTRICT ET AL. v.
STATE OF NEBRASKA ON THE RELATION OF
O'SHEA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEBRASKA.

No. 215.

Submitted April 25, 1917.-Decided June 4, 1917.

Under ยง 3438 of the Revised Statutes of Nebraska, 1913, as construed
by the Supreme Court of the State, the owner of an irrigation canal
may be compelled to bridge it to afford access between the lands of
another which are intersected by it, although the canal was built
across the lands by one who owned them at the time and who sold the
separated parcels by successive conveyances to their present owner,
after the canal had been long in operation and after it had been disposed of to another interest.
In virtue of the right to affix conditions to grants of corporate power,
the State of Nebraska, in granting appellant Irrigation District the
privilege of obtaining lands for canals, etc., by condemnation, was
justified in imposing, by the same law, the duty to build bridges
without further compensation in the circumstances indicated in the
preceding paragraph, and appellant, having accepted the privilege
cum onere, can not complain that its property is taken in violation
of the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment when the
requirement is enforced, even though the right of way for the particular canal in question was acquired without resort to tondemnation.
A state law laying a duty upon all owners of irrigation canals to construct bridges over them for the benefit of abutting lands does not
violate the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment
in not embracing canals devoted to other uses.
98 Nebraska, 239, affirmed.
"I

