WALL v. PARROT SILVER & COPPER CO.
244 U. S.

Syllabus.

the time of his refusal the decision of its own Supreme
Court that the State was without title, legal or beneficial,
qualifying it to litigate the questions involved.
In the original bill the not uncommon allegation of
fraud is made, which is denied in the answer. It was entirely proper for the parties to such a litigation, in good
faith "balancing the hope of gaining with the danger of
losing" to compromise the case and make an end of the
controversy and, as we have said, it is not claimed anywhere in the record that the members of the Levee Board,
which settled the suit, were not men of character and probity or that they did not act in perfect good faith in concluding the settlement. To these men the state law committed the care of the interests of the inhabitants of the
district and within the bounds of their authority honestly
exercised their action was conclusive upon the State.
It results that the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
must be
Affirmed.

WALL ET AL. v. PARROT SILVER & COPPER COMPANY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF MONTANA.
No. 271.

Argued May 4, 7, 1917.-Decided June 4, 1917.

The court agrees with the District Court in concluding that appellants'
allegations of fraud were not sustained.
Generally speaking, when fraud is alleged and denied, the party making
the charge will be confined to that issue.
When a constitutional question, asserted as the basis for the jurisdiction of this court on direct appeal from the District Court, is pleaded

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

as resulting from the execution of a fraudulent scheme, the question
ought not to be considered (semble), if the charge of fraud fails.
By claiming the benefits of state laws the right to question their constitutionality may be waived.
216 Fed. Rep. 242, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Francis P. Garland and Mr. Asa P. French for
appellants.
Mr. L. 0. Evans and Mr. John A. Garver for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellants as owners of 1210 of the 229,850 shares
of the capital stock of the Parrot Silver & Copper Company, a corporation organized under the laws of Montana, filed their bill in the United States District Court for
the District of Montana, seeking to avoid an executed sale
of all the property and assets of that company made on
May 31, 1910, to the Anaconda Copper Mining Company,
the consideration being a stipulated number of shares of
the vendee company.
The claim of the appellants is that in 1899 certain persons acquired control of a majority of the shares of the
capital stock of the Parrot Company with the fraudulent
purpose of so managing its affairs as to deplete and depreciate its assets "and then to acquire them" for less
than their real value, thereby depriving the minority
stockholders of "the just and fair value of their right and
interest" as shareholders or "of an appraisal of the value
of their stock on any adequate basis of value."
It is further claimed that this fraudulent scheme found
consummation in the sale to the Anaconda Company,
which was made under authority of §§ 4409, 4410, 4411,
and 4412 of the Revised Codes of Montana.

WALL v. PARROT SILVER & COPPER CO.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Section 4409 provides that a sale may be made of all
the assets of any mining corporation when at least twothirds of the whole number of shares of the capital stock
outstanding shall vote in favor of making such sale at a
meeting called and notified as provided in the section.
Such a sale of the "whole of the property of such corporation" works a dissolution of the corporation under
§ 4410 and its affairs must be wound up. Section 4411
provides that any stockholder who shall not have voted
for or authorized such sale may, within twenty days from
the date of the stockholders' meeting authorizing it, give
written notice that he does not assent thereto and demand
payment of the value of his stock, and ten days after
the service of such notice he must, or the corporation
may, apply to a designated court and have the value of
the stock fixed and appraised. Upon such application
the court shall appoint three appraisers who shall take
evidence in relation to and shall find the value of the
stock of such dissenting stockholder "at the time of his
dissent." To any stockholder not satisfied with the award
of the appraisers the next section, 4412, allows an appeal
to the District Court where the value of the stock shall
be re-assessed by a jury in the same manner as in "appeals
from the assessment of commissioners in condemnation
proceedings provided by law." The judgment on such
an award must be entered against both the vendor and
the vendee corporation, and by the statute it is made a
lien superior to the rights of the vendee upon all of the
real property sold.
After the sale to the Anaconda Company complained
of the appellants served a notice of dissent on the Parrot
corporation and commenced a statutory proceeding for the
appraisal of their stock, which has not been brought on for
hearing but is still pending.
The claim upon which the appellants come into this
court by direct appeal is that the statutes of Montana

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.

Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

referred to are unconstitutional because they provide for
a sale of all the property of the corporation upon a favorable vote of less than all (not less than two-thirds) of the
shares of the capital stock of the corporation and that
dissenting stockholders must accept an award of the value
of their stock made as of the date of sale. Such an award
in this case, it is claimed, would be based upon a valuation
of the assets of the company after they had been fraudulently depleted and depreciated and without its being
possible in such a proceeding to add anything to the value
of their stock on account of the damage which the persons
in control of the defendants by their fraudulent conduct
had done to the property of the Parrot Company, and
thereby to the value of the appellants' stock prior to the
sale. This, it is contended, would result in taking the
property of the appellants without just compensation and
in violation of the "due process of law" and of the "equal
protection of the laws" clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
This summary of this record shows that the claims of
the bill presented to the District Court for decision two
questions, viz:
(1) Did the defendants fraudulently dissipate and depreciate the assets of the Parrot Company prior to 'the
sale complained of to the damage of the interest of the
appellants as stockholders?
(2) If the Montana statutes were given effect, would
they so deprive the appellants of a part of the value of
their stock as to offend against the designated provisions
of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of
the United States?
An -examination of this record leads us to fully agree
with the trial court in its conclusion that the appellants
failed utterly to sustain their allegations that the property
of the Parrot Company was fraudulently dissipated and
depreciated through the management of the defendants

WALL v. PARROT SILVER & COPPER Cu.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

prior to the sale or that the sale made was in any respect
fraudulent. Upon this conclusion the judgment of the
District Court might well be affirmed, for the reason that
where fraud is charged in a bill or set up in an answer, and
is denied, the party making the charge will be confined
to that issue, and also for the reason that where the claimed
constitutional question on which a direct appeal to this
court is based is pleaded as resulting from the carrying
into effect of a fraudulent scheme, when such charge of
fraud fails the asserted constitutional question ought not
to be considered. French v. Shoemaker, 14 Wall. 314;
Eyre v. Potter, 15 How. 42; Chicago, Burlington & Quincy
Ry. Co. v. Babcock, 204 U. S. 585, 593.
But we prefer not to have the case go off on this seemingly technical but really sound and substantial rule.
There remains the contention that the statutes of
Montana which we have epitomized, if enforced, will deprive the appellants of their property without due process
of law because they provide that sale may be made of all
the assets of the corporation when authorized by not less
than two-thirds of the outstanding capital stock of the
corporation and that the plaintiffs must accept either the
payment for their shares which this large majority of their
associates think sufficient or, if they prefer, the value in
money of their stock to be determined by three appraisers
or, still at the election of appellants by a court and jury.
This record does not call upon us to examine into this
challenge of the validity of these statutory provisions,
similar as they are to those of many other States and of a
seemingly equitable character, for the reason that the
appellants by their action in instituting a proceeding for
the valuation of their stock, pursuant to these statutes,
which is still pending, waived their right to assail the validity of them. Great Falls Mfg. Co. v. Attorney General, 124
U. S. 581; Electric Co. v. Dow, 166 U. S. 489; Pierce v.
Somerset Railway, 171 U. S. 641; Leonard v. Vicksburg,

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.

Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

Shreveport & Pacific R. R. Co., 198 U. S. 416, 422. They
cannot claim the benefit of statutes and afterwards successfully assert their invalidity. There is no sanctity in
such a claim of constitutional right as prevents its being
waived as any other claim of right may be.
The decision of the District Court is
Affirmed.

EX PARTE PARK SQUARE AUTOMOBILE STATION, PETITIONER.
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDAMUS.
No. 31, Original.

Submitted May 21, 1917.-Rule discharged June 11,
1917.

Mandamus will not lie to control the District Court upon a jurisdictional question when other modes of reviewing its decision (writ of
error or certiorari) are provided by statute.
This rule obtains even though the decision complained of be manifestly
incorrect and though a direct review by mandamus might avert
great inconvenience and expense. Ex parte Harding,219 U. S. 363,
explained and followed.
So held where the object of the application was to require the District
Court for the Northern District of New York to remand a case removed from a court of the State of New Hampshire.
Rule discharged.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Edward C. Stone for petitioner.
Mr. Robert G. Dodge for respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Upon the ground that the American Locomotive Company, a corporation created under the laws of New York,

