OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Syllabus.

Court of the State for further proceedings not inconsistent with
this opinion.
So ordered.
did not hear
the argument and took no part in the decision of this cise.
MR.JUSTICE BREWER and MR.JUSTICE WHITE

FITZPATR1CK v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF ALASKA.
Submitted April 30,1900. -Decided May 28 ,1900.

Under the Court of Appeals Act of March 3, 1891, a conviction for murder
is a "conviction of a capital crime," though the jury qualify their verdict of guilty by adding the words "1without capital punishment." The
test of a capital crime is not the punishment which is imposed, but that
which may be imposed under the statute.
Under the statute of Oregon requiring the offence to be stated "in ordinary and concise language and in such manner as to enable a person of
common understanding to know what was intended," an indictment for
murder charging that the defe-.d.at feloniously, purposely, and of deliberate and premeditated malice inflicted upon the deceased a mortal wound
of .which he instantly died is a sufficient allegation of premeditated and
deliberate malice in killing him.

Evidence that one jointly indicted with the defendant was found to have
been wounded in the shoulder, and his accompanying statement that he
had been shot, were held to be competent upon the trial of the defendant.
Any fact which had a bearing upon the question of defendant's guilt immediate or remote and occurring at any time before the incident was
closed, was held proper for the consideration of the jury, although
statements made by other defendants in. his absence implicating him
with the murder would not be competent.
The prisoner taking the stand in his own behalf and swearing to an alibi
was held to have been properly cross-examined as to the clothing worn
by him on the night of the murder, his acquaintance with the others
jointly indicted with him, and other facts showing his connection with
them.
Where an accused party waives his constitutional privilege of silence and
takes the stand in his own behalf and makes his own statement, the
prosecution has a right to cross-examine him upon such statement with

FITZPATRICK v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.
the same latitude as would be exercised in the case of an ordinary witness as to the circumstances connecting him with the alleged crime.
Evidence in rebuttal with respect to the effect of light from the flash of a
revolver was held to be competent where the defence put in a calendar,
apparently for the purpose of showing the time the moon rose that night.

THIs was a writ of error to review the conviction of Fitzpatrick, who was jointly indicted with Henry Brooks and William Corbett for the murder of Samuel Roberts, on March 13,
1898, at Dyea, in the Territory of Alaska.
The indictment, omitting the formal parts, was as follows:
"The said John Fitzpatrick, Henry Brooks and William Corbett at or near Dyea, within the said district of Alaska, and
within the jurisdiction of this court, and under the exclusive
jurisdiction of the United States, on the 13th day of March, in
the year of our Lord one. thousand eight hundred and ninetyeight, did unlawfully, wilfully, knowingly, feloniously, purposely, and of deliberate and premeditated malice make an,
assault upon one Samuel Roberts, and that they, the said
John Fitzpatrick, Henry Brooks and William Corbett, a certain revolver, then and there charged with gunpowder and
leaden bullets, which said revolver they, the said John Fitzpatrick, Henry Brooks and William Corbett, in their hands then
and there bad and held, then and there feloniously, purposely
and of deliberate and premeditated malicedid discharge and
shoot off to, against and upon the said Samuel R6berts; and
that said John Fitzpatrick, Henry Brooks and William Corbett with one of the bullets aforesaid out of the revolver aforesaid then and there by force of the gunpowder aforesaid by
the said John Fitzpatrick, Henry Brooks and William Corbett,
discharged and shot off as aforesaid then and there feloniously,
purposely and with deliberate and premeditated malice did
strike, penetrate and wound him, the said Samuel Roberts, in
and upon the right breast of him, the said Samuel Roberts,
then and there with the leaden bullet aforesaid so as aforesaid
discharged and shot out of the revolver aforesaid by the said
John Fitzpatrick, Henry Brooks and William Corbett, in and
upon the right breast of him the said Samuel Roberts one
VOL. crxxvin-O

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

mortal wound, of which said mortal wound he, the said Samuel
Roberts, instantly died, and so the grand jurors duly selected,
empaneled, sworn and charged as aforesaid upon their oaths do
say: That said John Fitzpatrick, Henry Brooks and William
Corbett did then and there kill and murder the said Samuel
Roberts in the manner and form aforesaid, contrary to the
form of the statutes in such cases made and provided, and
against the peace and dignity of the United States of America.
"BuxroN E. BENNETT,
" U. S. District Attorney."
After a demurrer to the indictment, which was overruled, and
a motion for a continuance, which was denied, Brooks and Corbett moved and obtained an order for separate trials. The
court thereupon proceeded to the trial of Fitzpatrick, the jury
returning a verdict of guilty "without capital punishment."
Motions for a new trial and in arrest of judgment were entered, heard and overruled, and defendant sentenced to hard
labor for life in the penitentiary at San Quentin, California.
To review such judgment a writ of error was sued in forma
_auperio

-Mr. A. B. Browne, Mr. JuliusJEahn and -r.Alexander Britton fov plaintiff in error.
-..

Solicitor General for the United States.

MR.JuSTicE BRowr, after making the above statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

1. A suggestion is made by the government of a want of jurisdiction in this case, upon the ground that it is not of a "conviction of a capital crime" within section five of the Court of Appeals act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826, as amended by
act of January 20, 1897, c. 68, 29 Stat. 492, specifying the
cases in which a writ of error may be issued directly to a District
Court. It is clear, however, that, as section 5339 of the Revised
Statutes inflicts the penalty of death for murder, the power given

FITZPATRICK v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

the jury by the act of January 15, 1897, c. 29, 29 Stat. 487, to
qualify the verdict of guilty by adding the words "without
capital punishment," does not make the crime of murder anything less than a capital offence, or a conviction for murder anything less than a conviction for a capital crime, by reason of the
fact that the punishment actually imposed is imprisonment for
life. The test is not the punishment which is imposed, but
that which may be imposed under the statute. As was observed
in itre Claasen, 140 U. S.200, 205, with respect to infamous
crimes under the Court of Appeals act prior to its aimendment:
"A crime which is punishable by imprisonment in the state
prison or penitentiary, as the crime of which the defendant was
convicted, is an infamous crime whether the accused is or is not
sentenced or put to hard labor; and that, in determining whether
the crime is infamous, the question is, whether it is one for
which the statute authorizes the court to award an infamous
punishment, and not whether the punishment ultimately
awarded is an infamous one." See also Exjvarte Wilson, 114
U. S. 417, 426; Logan v. United States, 144 U. S. 263, $08;
The raqueteHabana, 175 U. S.677, 682; .Motes v. United States,
post. A conviction for murder, punishable with death, is not
the less a conviction for a capital crime by reason of the fact
that the jury, in a particular case, qualifies the punishment.
2. The first question raised by the plaintiff in error relates to
the sufficiency of the indictment, which was for a violation of
Rev. Stat., section 5339. This section, eliminating the immaterial clauses, declares that "every person who commits murder
within any fort

.

.

.

or in any other place or dis-

trict of country under the exclusive jurisdiction of the United
States

.

.

.

shall suffer death."

This section does not de-

fine the crime of murder, but prescribes its punishment.
By section seven of an act providing a civil government for
Alaska, approved May 17, 1884, c. 53,23 Stat. 24, it is enacted
"that the general laws of the State-of Oregon now in force are
hereby declared to be the law in said district; so far as the same
may be applicable and not in conflict with the provisions of this
act or the laws of the United States." We are, therefore, to
look to the law of Oregon and the interpretation put thereon

OCTOBER TERI, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

by the highest court of that State, as they stood on the day this
act was passed, for the requisites for an indictment for murder
rather than to the rules of the common law.
By Hill's Annotated Laws of Oregon, section 1268, c. 8,
title 1, relating to criminal procedure, an indictment must contain:
"1. The title of the action, specifying the name of the court
to which the indictment is presented, and the names of the
parties;
"2. A statement of the acts constituting the offence, in ordinary and concise language, without repetition, and in such manner as to enable a person of common understanding to know
what is intended."
In State v. Dougherty,4 Oregon, 200, 205, the Supreme Court
of that State had held that "the indictment should always contain such a specification, of acts and descriptive circumstances
as will, upon its face, fix and determine the identity of the offence, and enable the court, by an inspection of the record alone,
to determine whether, admitting the truth of the specific acts
charged, a thing has been done which is forbidden by law."
By section 1270, Hill's Laws, it is provided that "the manner
of stating the act constituting the crime, as set forth in the
appendix to this code, is sufficient, in all cases where the forms
there given are applicable, and in other cases forms may be used
as nearly similar as the nature of the case will permit;" and
in an appendix to this section the following form is given for
murder: "And purposely and of deliberate and premeditated
malice killed C. D. by shooting. him with a gun or pistol, or by
administering to him poison, or," etc.
It will be noticed that section 1270 only declares that the
form given in the appendix is sufficient in all cases where the
forms there given are applicable, but it does not purport to be
exclusive of other forms the pleader may choose to adopt. It
does not declare the insufficiency of other forms, but merely
the sufficiency of those contained in the appendix. We are,
therefore, remitted to section 1268 to inquire whether the indictment contains "a statement of the acts constituting the
offence, in ordinary and concise language, without repetition,

FITZPATRICK v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

and in such manner as to enable a person of common understanding to know what is intended." This section was doubtless intended to modify to a certain extent the strictness of the
common law indictment, and simply to require the statement of
the elements of the offence in language adapted to the common
understanding of the people, whether it would be regarded as
sufficient by the rules of the common law or not. People v.
Dolan., 9 Cal. 576; People v. Al Woo, 2S Cal. 205; People v.
Rodriguez, 10 Cal. 50. As was said by this court in United
States v. Cruikshank, 92 U. S. 542, 558, "the object of the indictment is, first, to furnish the accused with such a description
of the charge against him as will enable him to make his defence,
and avail himself of his conviction or acquittal for protection
against a further prosecution for the same cause; and, second,
to inform the court of the facts alleged, so that it may decide
whether they are sufficient in law to support a conviction, if one
should be had."
The indictment in this case, omitting the immaterial parts,
avers that the accused "did unlawfully, wilfully, knowingly,
feloniously, purposely, and of deliberate and premeditated malice, make an assault upon one Samuel Roberts," and a certain
loaded revolver "then and there feloniously, purposely and of
deliberate and premeditated malice did discharge and shoot off
to, against and upon the said Samuel Roberts," and one of the
bullets aforesaid, discharged as aforesaid, "feloniously, purposely and deliberate and premeditated malice did strike, penetrate and wound him, the said Samuel Roberts, in and upon the
right breast,

.

.

.

one mortal wound, of which he, the said

Samuel Roberts, instantly died ;"' and further, that the defendants "did then and there kill and murder the said Samuel Roberts in the manner and form aforesaid, contrary," etc.
Defendant criticises this indictment as failing to aver deliberate and premeditated malice in killing Roberts, although it is
averred that the defendatLts did, with deliberate and premeditated malice, inflict a mortal wound, of. which he instantly died,
and that they killed and murdered him in the manner and form
aforesaid. If, as alleged in the indictment, they, with deliberate and premeditated malice, shot iRoberts in the breast with a

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

revolver, and inflicted a mortal wound, of which he instantly
died, they would be presumed to contemplate and intend the
natural and probable consequences of such act; and an additional averment that they, with deliberate and premeditated
malice intended to kill him, was quite unnecessary to apprise
the common understanding of their purpose. If they purposely
inflicted a mortal wound, they must have intended to kill. No
person could have a moment's hesitation as to what it was intended t6 aver, namely, that the defendants had been guilty of
a deliberate and premeditated murder; and while a number of
cases are cited which lend some support to the argument of the
defendant, there was no such statute involved as section 1268
of the Oregon Code. We have no doubt the indictment furnished the accused with such a description of the charge as
would enable him to avail himself of a plea of former jeopardy,
and also to inform the court whether the facts were sufficient
in law to support a conviction, within the ruling in the Cruik8hank case. While we should bold an indictment to be insufficient that did not charge in definite language all the elements
constituting the offence, we have no desire to be hypercritical
or to require the pleader to unduly repeat as to every incident
of the offence the allegation of deliberateness and premeditation. We are bound to give some effect to the provisions of.
section 1268 in its evident purpose to authorize a relaxation of
the extreme stringency of criminal pleadings, and make that
sufficient in law which satisfies the "common understanding"
of men.
3. Certain exceptions to the admission of testimony render it
necessary to notice the more prominent facts of the case. The
murder tooli place at Dyea, Alaska, just outside the cabin of
Roberts. Roberts conducted certain games at the Wonder
Hotel or saloon, and slept in his .cabin across the street, about
a hundred and fifty feet from the saloon. Ross and Brennan,
two of the government witnesses, were employed by Roberts
in connection. with the games. Ross testified that, about two
o'clock in the morning, Roberts, the deceased, asked the witnesses to accompany him from the Wonder Hotel to the cabin,
and to carry a sack of money used at the games. Roberts was

FITZPATRICK v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

in the habit of going to his cabin every night accompanied by
a man carrying the sack. They entered the cabin, and, while
Roberts struck a match, something suspicious seemed to occur,
and both stepped outside the door. Instantly there was a report of a gun inside the cabin. Roberts crowded witness off
the porch, the sack of money fell off witness's shoulder, and he
fell off the steps. As he fell he heard the report of a pistol
from outside the cabin, and soon heard hurried footsteps close
to him. He then heard the report of a gun from inside the
cabin, and in a few seconds a man came out, stood on'the porch,
raised his gun and fired two shots in the direction of the Wonder Hotel, turned to the right in a leisurely manner, got off the
steps and disappeared behind the north side of the house. Witness recognized this man as Fitzpatrick, the defendant. As
Fitzpatrick disappeared, witness called for help, and Brennan
and others came over from the hotel with a lantern. Roberts
was found lying on his back, fatally wounded, and almost immediately died
Brennan, who was at the hotel, saw Roberts start with Ross,
with the sack, to go to the cabin. In a few minutes he heard
a shot, and started toward the door, but before he got to the
door there was another shot, and, when he reached the pavement, still another, which seemed to come from the cabin.
Witness ran back to the hotel, got a gun and lantern, ran across
the street, found Ross first, and then Roberts on his back dying.
There was some other testimony to the same general effect.
The testimony to which objection was made was that of Ballard, a soldier on guard duty at Dyea on the night of the occurrence, who testified that about two o'clock in the morning
he heard four or five shots from the direction of Roberts' cabin
and the Wonder Hotel, and that some fifteen or twenty minutes or half an hour thereafter, a man came to him. "I was
in the cabin, and he rapped on the door, and I went and opened
the door for him, and he said he would like to get a doctor.
He was shot.

. . . I directed him to the hospital in town,

and he went that way." Witness said that he did not know the
man, but was afterwards told that his name was Corbett. He
was brought into court, but witness could not identify him with
certainty.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

Objection was also made to the testimony of Dr. Price, who
swore that about three o'clock in the morning Corbett applied
to him for medical assistance; that he was wounded in the right
shoulder, and witness was in attendance upon him about three
weeks or a month. Also to the testimony of John Oudihee,
deputy United States marshal, who arrested Fitzpatrick, Brooks
and Corbett the day of the murder, and made "aninvestigation.
He found Roberts in his cabin dead, then went to Fitzpatrick
and Corbett's cabin, and found there a lot of shoes and clothing
covered with blood. The witness produced the shoes in evideuce, pointed out which pair was Fitzpatrick's and which was
Corbett's, explained that Fitzpatrick had identified the shoes in
his office, and pointed out which pair was Corbett's and which
was his. Witness also pointed out the blood stains on both
shoes. Corbett's shoe fitted the footprints in the sand which the
witness found in the rear of Roberts' cabin, where the shooting
occurred. The shoe had hobnails in it, and the heel of one was
worn off so the print in the sand was. a peculiar one.
Objection was made to the admission of any testimony relating to the acts of Corbett, and especially that which occurred
after the alleged crime had been committed. No direct testimony appears in the record showing the presence of Corbett
at the cabin before, during or after the commission of the crime
for which Fitzpatrick-was then on trial. Had the statement
of Oorbett, that he was shot, and inquiring for a doctor, tended
in any way to connect Fitzpatrick with the murder, it would
doubtless have been inadmissible against him upon the principle
announced in Sparf and Hansen v. United States, 156 U. S. 51,
that statements made by one of two joint defendants in the
absence of the other defendant, while admissible against the
party making the statement, are inadmissible against the other
party. In that case declarations of Hansen connecting Sparf
with the homicide there involved, tending to prove the guilt of
both, and made in the absence of Sparf, were held inadmissible
against the latter. This is a familiar principle of law; but the
statement of Ballard was not within this rule. Corbett had
evidently been wounded, and was asking for a doctor. His
accompanying statement that he was shot was clearly compe-

FITZPATRICK v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

tent to explain his condition, and had no tendency whatever to
connect Fitzpatrick with the transaction. This statement, as
well as that of Dr. Price, to the effect that he found Corbett
with a wound in his right shoulder, and that of Oudihee as to
finding a lot of shoes and clothing covered with blood, and connecting one pair of these shoes with the footprints found near
Roberts' cabin, were all facts connected with the crime which
the government was entitled to lay before the jury. Fitzpatrick
an~d Corbett roomed together. Their bloody clothes and shoes
were found in their cabin the morning after the murder.
Brooks had roomed with them. Brooks and Corbett in their
affidavit for a continuance swore in effect that they were together that night, and attempted to establish a joint alibi.
There was no doubt that a homicide had been committed,
and it was the province of the jury to determine whether the
defendant was a guilty party. Any fact which had a bearing
upon this question, immediate or remote, and occurring at any
time, before the incident was closed, was proper for the consideration of the jury. Of course, statements made in the absence of Fitzpatrick implicating him with the murder would not
be competent, but none such were admitted; but any act done,
whether in Fitzpatrick's presence or not, which had a tendency
to connect him with the crime, was proper for the consideration
of the jury, and the fact that Corbett was not then on trial is
immaterial in this connection. As there was some evidence
tending to show a joint action on the part of the three defendants, any fact having a tendency to connect them with the
murder was competent upon the trial of Fitzpatrick. The true
distinction is between statements made after the fact, which are
competent only against the party making the statement, and
facts connecting either party with the crime which are competent as a part of the whole transaction. In the trial of either
party it is proper to lay before the jury the entire affair, including the acts and conduct of all the defendants from the time
the homicide was first contemplated to the time the transaction
was closed. It may have a bearing only against the party doing
the act, or it may have a remoter bearing upon the other defendants; but such as it is, it is competent to be laid before the jury.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Gourt.

In Pe pZe v. Cleveland, 107 Mich. 367, error was assigned by
the defendant in permitting the prosecution to show the acts of
one Mehan, jointly indicted with Cleveland in the affray; his
appearance on the way to Jackson, and on the succeeding days;
the excuse he gave for his then condition, and the result of an
examination of his clothing. But the court said: "It is apparent from the testimony that the three parties, when they left
Jackson, had arranged to engage in this robbery,
.
.
and
the arrangement had been carried out so far as they were able
to do. so. It was therefore proper to show the condition of
Mehan, who was not on trial, for the purpose of establishing
his identity as one of the men who accompanied the respondent
Cleveland from Jackson to Somerset Center, thus identiflying
the latter's connection with the robbery."
So, in Angley v. State, 35 Tex. Crim. Rep. 427, error was
assigned upon the admission of testimony to show the character of shoes Rice (who was connected with the transaction but
not jointly indicted) had on when arrested the day after the
assault. One ground of the objection was that Rice was not
jointly indicted with Angley. When Rice was arrested and
his shoes examined it was found that one of them had a hole in
the sole fitting a corresponding peculiarity in the track found
upon the ground. The court held this testimony proper, though
Rice was separately indicted, because the conspiracy "had been
shown. This was a circumstance tending to show that he was
one of the parties present at the time the assault was committed.
4. Error is also assigned in not restricting the cross-examination of the plaintiff in error. Defendant himself was the only
witness put upon the stand by the defence, who was connected
with the transaction; and he was asked but a single question,
and that related to his whereabouts upon the night of the murder. To this he answered: "I was up between Clancy's and
Kennedy's. I had been in Clancy's up to about half-past twelve
or one o'clock- about one o'clock, I guess. I went up to Kennedy's and had a few drinks with Captain Wallace and Billy
Kennedy, and I told them. I was getting kind of full and Iwas
going home, and along about quarter past one Wallace brought
me down about as far as Clancy's, and then he took me down

FITZPATRICK v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

to the cabin and left me in the cabin, and we wound the alarm
clock and set it to go off at six o'clock, and I took off my shoes
and lay down on the bunk and woke up at six o'clock in the
morning, and went up the street."
On cross-examination the government was permitted, over
the objection of defendant's counsel, to ask questions relating
to the witness's attire on the night of the shooting, to his acquaintance with Corbett, whether Corbett had shoes of a certain kind, whether witness saw Corbett on the evening of
March 12, the night preceding the shooting, whether Corbett
roomed with Fitzpatrick in the latter's cabin, and whether witness saw any one else in the cabin besides Brooks and Corbett.
The court permitted this upon the theory that it was competent
for the prosecution to show every movement of the prisoner
during the night, the character of his dress, the places he had
visited and the company he had kept.
Where an accused party waives his constitutional privilege of
silence, takes the stand in his own behalf and makes his own
statement, it is clear that the prosecution has a right to crossexamine him upon such statement with the same latitude as
would be exercised in the case of an ordinary witness, as to the
circumstances connecting him with the alleged crime. While
no inference of guilt can be drawn from his refusal to avail
himself of the privilege of testifying, he has no right to set
forth to the jury all the facts which tend in his favor without
laying himself open to a cross-examination upon those facts.
The witness having sworn to an alibi, it was perfectly competent for the government to cross-examine him as to every fact
which had a bearing upon his whereabouts upon the night of
the murder, and as to what he did and the persons with whom
he associated that night. Indeed, we .know of no reason why
an accused person, who takes the stand as a witness, should not
be subject to cross-examination as other witnesses are. Had
another witness been placed upon the stand by the defence, and
sworn that he was with the prisoner at Clancy's and Kennedy's
that night, it would clearly have been competent to ask what
the prisoner wore, and whether the witness saw Corbett the
same night or the night before, and whether they were fellow

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

occupants of the same room. While the court would probably
have no power of compelling an answer to any question, a refusal to answer a proper question put upon cross-examination
has been held to be a proper subject of comment to the jury,
State v. Ober, 52 N. H. 459; and it is also held in a large number of cases that when an accused person takes the stand in his
own behalf, he is subject to impeachment like other witnesses.
If the prosecution should go farther and compel the defendant,
on cross-examination, to write his own name or that of another
person, when he had not testified in reference thereto in his
direct examination, the .case of State v. Lwrck, 12 Oregon, 99,
is authority for saying that this would be error. It would be
a clear case of the defendant being compelled to furnish original evidence against himself. State v. Saunders, 14 Oregon,
300, is also authority for the proposition that he cannot be compelled to answer as to any facts not relevant to his direct examination.
5. Error is also assigned to the action of the court in permitting the government to call and examine witnesses in rebuttal
with respect to the effect of light from the flash of a revolver,
and whether such light would be sufficient to enable a person
firing the revolver to be identified. One of the witnesses, Ross,
testified on cross-examination that although the night was dark,
he identified Fitzpatrick by the flash of the pistol shots.
Had the defence put in no evidence whatever upon the subject, the question would have been presented whether it was or
was not a matter of discretion for the court to admit this testimony in rebuttal; but in view of the fact that the defence put
in a calendar apparently for the purpose of showing the time
that the moon rose that night, as having some bearing upon
this question, there was no impropriety in putting in this testimony.
There was no error committed upon the trial prejudicial to
the defendant, and the judgment of the District Court is therefore
Afflied.

