]_v jarte THE UNION STEAMBOAT COMPANY. 317
Statement of the Case.

Eo Iarte THE UNION STEAMBOAT COMPANY.
ORIGINAL.
No. 12. Original. Submitted MIay 14, 1900.-Decided May 28, 1900.

Where this court in a collision case directed a decree dividing the damages
as between the two vessels, and allowing to the owners of the cargo of
one vessel a full recovery against the other vessel; and the court below,
upon the production of the mandate of this court, refused to permit
the latter vessel to recoup against the other one half the damages to the
cargo, it was held that the remedy was by a new appeal and not by mandainus from this court, no disobedience of the mandate being shown.

THIS was a petition for a writ of mandamus to the District
Court for the Eastern District of Michigan, commanding it to
set aside a decree entered in the case of The _New York, 175
U. S. 187, and enter a decree dividing the damages equally, so
that petitioner would not be decreed to pay more than one half
the total damages arising out of the collision between the New
York and the Conemaugh, with interest thereon not exceeding
five per cent per annum.
Upon the opinion of this court in the case of The N ew York
being filed, a mandate issued that the decree of the Court of
Appeals be reversed, and the case remanded to the District
Court, with direction "to enter a decree in conformity with
the opinion of this court, with interest at the same rate per
annum that decrees bear in the State of Michigan." Upon the
case coming on to be heard in the District Court, the petitioner,
the Union Steamboat Company, owner of the propeller New
York, submitted a decree to the effect that both vessels were
in fault for the collision, and that the damages resulting therefrom be equally divided between-the Erie and Western Transportation Company, owner of the Conemaugh, and the Union
Steamboat Company, owner of the New York; that such damages amounted in all to the sum of $74,319.49, of which certain intervening underwriters of the cargo were entitled to,
and recovered from the Steamboat Company, $19,811.56; that

318

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

the Transportation Company, as trustees for the underwriters
and owners of the cargo of the Conemaugh, not intervening,
suffered damages in the sum of $19,627.67; that, as owner of
•the propeller, it had suffered damages in the sum of $30,508.46,
aggregating the sum of $50,136.13; that the Transportation
Cofiapany recover of the petitioner one half of $50,136.13, less
one half the sum of $19,841.56, decreed to be paid to the intervening petitioners, etc.
The court, however, declined to enter this decree; refused to
permit the petitioner to recoup any sum that it might pay to
the owners or underwriters of the cargo of the Conemaugh,
from any sum that was due from the Steamboat Company for
damages sustained by the Conemaugh, so that such company
was compelled to pay of the total damages about seventy-six
per cent instead of fifty per cent thereof.Ar. C. E. Jremer, fr. H. C. ]Visner, fr. F. C. Hoavey and
.Xr. W. 0. Johnson for petitioners.

Ar. HaE"vey A. Goulder, XM. S. 1-. Holding, Xp."F. S. fast
and Xr. Frh'ank H. anfield for respondent.
Mr. F. H Canfeld filed a brief for Intervening Underwriters.
MR. JuSTIcE BROWN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

Petitioner applies for this writ of mandamus upon the ground
that the District Court refused to enter a decree in conformity
with the ,opinion of this court dividing the damages, but in
effect entered a decree imposing upon the Union Steamboat
Company, the petitioner, about seventy-six per cent of the
damages occasioned by the collision.
The duty of an inferior court upon receiving the mandate of
this court is nowhere better described than by Mr. Justice
Baldwin in an early case upon that subject, Ex parte Sibbald
v. United. States, 12 Pet. 488, 492: "Whatever," said he,
"was before the court, and is disposed of, is considered as finally

.&

parte THE UNION STEAMBOAT COMPANY. 319
Opinion of the Court.

settled. The inferior court is bound by the decree as the law,
of the case, and must carry it into execution, according to the
mandate. They cannot vary it or examine it for any other
purpose than execution ; or give any other or further relief ; or
review it upon any matter decided on appeal for error apparent; or intermeddle with it, further than to settle so much as
has been remanded. . . . If the special mandate, directed
by the twenty-fourth section, (of the judiciary act,) is not obeyed
or executed, then the general power given to all courts of the
United States to issue any writs which are necessary for the
exercise of their respective jurisdictions, and agreeable to the
principles and usages of law, by the fourteenth section of the
judiciary act, fairly arises, and a mandamus or other appropriate writs will go," although an appeal will also sometimes lie.
Perkins v. Fourniquet,14 How. 328, 330; .ilwaukee & ..Minnesota Railroad Co. v. Soutter, 2 Wall. 440, 443. See also
Boyce's Executors v. Grundy, 9 Pet. 275; Ex _parte Dubuque
& Pacifc Railroad,1 Wall. 69; Durantv. Essex Co., 101 U. S.
555; h,- re Washington & Georgetown .
. Co, 140 U. S.
91; City Bank v. Hunter, 152 U. S. 512; In re City National
Bank, 153 U. S. 246; In re Sanford Fork & Tool Co., 160
U. S.247; In re Potts, 166 U. S. 263.
It is equally well settled, however, that such writ, as a general rule, lies only where there is no other adequate remedy
and that it cannot be availed of as a writ of error. In re Penn,
sylvania Co., 137 U. S.451; In re Morrison, 147 U. S.14, 26;
Ex _parte Railway Co., 103 U. S.794; Ev parte Bdltimore c&
Ohio R. R1. Co., 108 U. S.566; In re Atlantic City R. R., 164
U. S.633. The inferior court is justified in considering and
deciding any question left open by the mandate and opinion of
this court, and its decision upon such matter can only be reviewed upon a new appeal to the proper court; In re Sanford
Fork & Tool Co., 160 U. S.247, 256, and the opinion of this
court may be consulted to ascertain exactly what was decided
and settled. IWest v. Brashear,14 Pet. 51 ; Su2ervisorsv. Kennicott, 94 U. S. 498; Gaines v. Rugg, 148 U. S.228, 238, 244;
Sanford Fork & Tool Co., 160 U. S.247, 256.
The libel in this case was for a collision between the Cone.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

maugh and the New York. The only questions decided were
as to the respective faults of the two vessels, and the claim of
the underwriters upon the Conemaugh's cargo, that they were
entitled to a recovery to the full amount of their damages
against the New York, notwithstanding the Conemaugh was
also in fault for the collision. This claim was sustained, and
directions given to enter a decree in conformity to the opinion
of this court. Such decree was entered, dividing the damages
between the two vessels, and awarding to the underwriters of
the cargo a full recovery against the New York. It may be
true that the decree holds the New York liable for seventy-six
per cent of the entire damages and not fifty per cent, but this
results from the fact that she was primarily held for the entire
value of the cargo. The equal division applied only to the vessels, and upon the other hand if petitioner be entitled to the
recoupment claimed, it would, apparently, result in an affirmative decree in its favor. But no question of recouping one half
of such damages to the cargo from the moiety of damages
awarded the Conemaugh was made by counsel or passed upon
by this court. It is now insisted that, under the cases of T1'w
Cluattalooceke, 173 U. S. 540, and Th]e Albert Dumois, 177 U. S.
240, this should have been done. This may be so; but it is an
entirely new question, quite unaffected by the case of Tihe rew
York, and if the court erred in refusing to allow such recoupment, the remedy is by appeal and not by mandamus. Perhaps
a mandamus might lie to review the allowance of interest, but
that may also be considered on appeal.
No disobedience of the mandate having been shown, the petition must be
-Denied.

