OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

requires, we are of opinion that the judge of the court of bankruptcy was authorized to compel persons, who had forcibly and
unlawfully seized and taken out of the judicial custody of that
court property which had lawfully come into its possession as
part of the bankrupt's property, to restore that property to
its custody; and therefore our answer to the first question must
be: "The District Court sitting in bankruptcy had jurisdiction
by summary proceedings to compel the return of the property
seized."
These answers to the first and second questions render any
further answer to the third question unnecessary.
Ordered accordingly.

TAYLOR AND :MARSHALL v. BECKHAM (NO. 1).
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATF OF KENTUCKY.
No. 603. Argued April 30, Ial 1, 1900. -Decided May 21. 1900.
By the constitution and laws of Kentucky, the determination of contests
of the election of Governor and Lieutenant Governor is, and for a hundred years has been, committed to the General Assembly of that Commonwealth.
The Court of Appeals of Kentucky decided that the courts bad no power
to go behind the determination of the General Assembly in such a contest, duly recorded in the journals thereof; that the office of Governor
or of Lieutenant Governor was not property in itself; and, moreover,
that, under the constitution and laws of Kentucky, such determination
being an authorized mode of ascertaining the result of an election for
Governor and Lieutenant Governor, tile persons declared elected to those
offices on the face of the returns by the Board of Canvassers, only provisionally occupied them because subject to the final determination of
the General Assembly on contests duly initiated. Held:
(1) That the judgment of the Court of Appeals to the effect that it was
not empowered to revise the determination by the General Assembly adverse to plaintiffs in error in the matter of election to these
offices was not a decision against a title, right, privilege or immunity secured by the Constitution of the United States; and plaintiffs in error could not invoke jurisdiction because of deprivation,
under the circumstances, of property or vested rights, without due
process of law;

TAYLOR AND MARSHALL v. BECKHAM (NO. 1). 549
Statement of the Case.
(2) That the guarantee by the Federal Constitution to each of the States
of a republican form of government was intrusted for its enforcement to the political department, and could not be availed of, in
connection with the Fourteenth Amendment, to give this court
jurisdiction to revise the judgment of the highest court of the
State that it could not review the determination of a contested
election of Governor and Lieutenant Governor by the tribunal
to which that determination was exclusively committed by the
state constitution and laws, on the ground of deprivation of rights
secured by the Constitution of the United States.
Tns was an action in the nature of quo wapranto brought,
under the statutes of Kentucky, by J. C. W. Beckham against
William S. Taylor and John Marshall, for usurpation of the
offices of Governor and Lieutenant Governor of Kentucky, in
the Circuit Court of Jefferson County, in that Commonwealth.
The petition averred that at a general election held on the 7th
of November, 1899, in the Commonwealth of Kentucky, William Goebel was the Democratic candidate for Governor and
J. C. W. Beckham was the Democratic candidate for Lieutenant Governor, and that at said election William S. Taylor and
John Marshall were the Republican candidates for the said
offices respectively; that after said election the State Board of
Election Commissioners, whose duty it was to canvass the returns thereof, canvassed the same, and determined on the face
of the returns that said Taylor and said Marshall were elected
Governor and Lieutenant Governor, respectively, for the term
commencing December 12, 1899, and accordingly awarded
them certificates to that effect, whereupon they were inducted
into those offices.
The petition further alleged that within the time allowed by
law said William Goebel and J. C. W. Beckham gave written
notices to Taylor and Marshall that they would each contest
the said election on numerous grounds set out at large in the
respective notices; that said notices of contest were duly served
on said Taylor and Marshall, filed before each house of the
General Assembly, and entered at large on the journals thereof; that thereafter Boards of Contests were duly selected by
each House of the General Assembly, and sworn to try said
contests as required by law; that at the time appointed for

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

the hearing the. said Taylor and Marshall appeared, and each
filed defences and counter notices, and the evidence of contestants and contestees was heard by the Boards from January 15,
1900, until January 29, 1900, inclusive, and upon January 30,
1900, said contests were submitted without argument to the
Boards for decision.
That thereafter the Boards, having considered the matters of
law and fact involved in the contests, did each separately decide the contest submitted to it, and made out in writing its
decision and reported the same to each House of the General
Assembly for action thereon.
That in the contest for Governor the Board determined, and
so reported to each House of the General Assembly, that William Goebel had received the highest number of legal votes
cast for Governor at the election held on November 7,.1899,
and that he was duly elected Governor for the term beginning
December 12, 1899; and that in the contest for Lieutenant
Governor the Board determined and so reported that the contestant Beckham had received the highest number of legal votes
cast at said election, and was duly elected to the office of Lieutenant Governor for said term.
The petition also alleged that the reports and decisions of
the Contest Boards were thereafter duly adopted and approved
by both Houses of the General A~sembly in separate and in joint
sessions; that there were present in the House of Representatives at said time 56 members and in the Senate 19 members,
which was a quorum of each House, and that there were present 75 members in joint session, and that the General Assembly
did then and there decide and declare that William Goebel and
J. C. W. Beckham had each received the highest number of
legal votes cast at said election for the offices of, and were
duly elected, Governor and Lieutenant Governor as aforesaid.
The Journals of both Houses of the General Assembly, showing the proceedings and facts aforesaid, were referred to and.
made part of the petition, and attested copies thereof filed
therewith.
It was further averred that after the determination of said
contest by the General Assembly, the said William Goebel and

TAYLOR AND MARSHALL

t..

BECKIIAM (NO. 1). 551

Statement of the Case.
J. C. W. Beckham were duly sworn and inducted into the
offices of Governor and Lieutenant Governor of the Commonwealth and at once entered upon the discharge of their respective duties. That thereafter, on the third of February, 1900,
William Goebel died, and by law said Becklam was required to
discharge the duties of the office of Governor, and accordingly
on that day he took the oath prescribed by law, and immediately entered on the discharge of the duties of said office.
It was further alleged that the powers of Taylor as Governor
and of Marshall as Lieutenant Governor immediately ceased on
the determination of the contest by the General Assembly,
but that notwithstanding the premises the said Taylor and Marshall had usurped the said offices of Governor and Lieutenant
Governor, and refused to surrender the records, archives, jour
nals and papers pertaining to the office of Governor, and the
possession of the executive offices in the Capitol in the city of
Frankfort.
The prayer of the petition was "that the defendant, William S. Taylor, be adjudged to have usurped the office of Governor of this Commonwealth, and that he be deprived thereof
by the judgment of this court; that this plaintiff be adjudged
entitled to the said office and be placed in full possession of
said office of Governor, the executive offices provided by the
Commonwealth for the use of the Governor, and that all the
records, archives, books, papers, journals and all other things
pertaining to the-said office be surrendered and delivered io
this plaintiff, by the said Taylor, and that the said Taylor be
enjoined and restrained from further exercising or attempting
to exercise the office of Governor of this Commonwealth; that
the said John Marshall be adjudged to have usurped the office
of Lieutenant Governor of the Commonwealth, and that he be
deprived thereof, and declared not entitled to the same by the
judgment of this court, and enjoined from assuming to act as
such Lieutenant Governor; that plaintiff, Beckham, be adjudged the lawful incumbent of said office; and finally the
plaintiff prays for his costs in this behalf expended, and for all
proper relief."
Defendants Taylor and Marshall filed answers and amended

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

answers and counterclaims, denying any valid proceedings in
contest, and alleging in substance that the action of the Boards
of Contests and of the General Assembly in the contests was
the result of a conspiracy entered into by the members of the
Boards and the members of the General Assembly to wrongfully and unlawfully deprive contestees of their offices; that in
the execution of this design the members of said Boards were
fraudulently selected, and not fairly drawn by lot, as required
by law, and that a majority of those selected were persons
whose political beliefs and feelings, inclinations and desires on
the subject of the contests were known in advance. That the
entries on the Journals of the General Assembly were false and
fraudulent, and made in pursuance of said conspiracy, and that
the pretended decisions were fraudulent and utterly void. That
the Senate lacked a quorum at the time of the pretended adoption of the Contest Boards' reports; and that defendant, Taylor, as Governor, on January 31, 1900, refused to permit the
members of the General Assembly to meet as the General Assembly at Frankfort, because he had previously adjourned the
General Assembly to meet on February 6 at London, in Laurel
County.
The notices of contest were averred to have been exactly
alike, mutatis mutandis, and the notice in respect of the office
of Governor was set out as given in the margin.1
- The Contestee, William S. Taylor, is hereby notified that the Contestant, William Goebel, who was more than thirty years of age, and has been
a citizen and resident of Kentucky for more than six years, next preceding
the 7th day of November, 1899, will contest the election of the said William S. Taylor to the office of Governor of this Commonwealth, before the
next General Assembly thereof, to be convened as provided by law, in the
city of Frankfort, on the 2d day of January, 1900, and before the Board of
Contest to be oiganized by the said General Assembly for the purpose of
determining the contest for Governor; and will then and there contest the
right of tile said William S. Taylor to the office of Governor of this Commonwealth by virtue of the election held therein on the 7th day of November, 1899, and the certificate of election granted unto the said William S.
Taylor by the State Board of Election Commissioners on the 9th day of
December, 1899; and will ask the General Assembly and said Board of
Contest to determine that the Contestant, William Goebel, was legally and
rightfully elected Governor aforesaid, at the said election, and that Wil-

TAYLOR AND MARSHALL v. BECKHAM (NO. 1). 553
Statement of the Case.

The following are paragraphs from the answers and amended
answers:
liam S. Taylor was not rightfully or legally elected to said office; and said
Contestant will then and there ask the said Board of Contest and the General Assembly to take such proceedings and orders in the matters of said
contest as is required by law for his induction into said office.
For grounds of snch contest, the Contestant says:
First. In the election held in this Commonwealth on the 7th day of November, 1889, for the office of Governor, the Contestant, William Goebel,
was the Democratic candidate, and the Contestee, William S. Taylor, was
the Republican candidate for said office of Governor, and were then and
there voted for as such candidates; and at said election held in the counties
of Knox, Jackson, Magoffin, Pike, Martin, Johnson, Owsley, Lewis, Carter,
Pulaski, Bell, Clinton, Russell, Adair, Harlan, Casey, Wayne, Whitley,
Todd, Caldwell, Crittendon, Perry, Muhlenburg, Monroe, Metcalf, Butler,
Leteher, Leslie, Lee, Laurel, Hart, Greenup, Grayson, Estill, Edmonson,
Cumberland, Clay, Breckenridge, Boyd and Allen, and in each precinct
thereof, all of the official ballots used, in all of said counties, were printed
upon paper so thin and transparent that the printing and the stencil marks
thereon, made by the voters, could be distinguished from the back of said
ballots; that none of the said ballots used in said counties, were printed
upon plain white paper, sufficiently thick to prevent the printing from being distinguished from the back of the said ballots, whereby the secrecy
of the said ballots were destroyed, and the said election in all of the said
counties rendered void, and the printed vote thereon should not be counted
in ascertaining the result of the election in this Commonwealth.
Second. That the said alleged election held in the County of Jefferson
and the City of Louisville on the 7th day of November, 1889, was and is void,
because the Contestant says that upon that day before the' said election,
the Governor of the Commonwealth unlawfully called the military forces
of the State into active service in said City, armed with rifles, bayonets
and gatling guns, for the purposes of overawing, intimidating and keeping
Democratic voters from the polls thereof,.and did himself, in violation of
the law of the land, go to the said City and County the day before said
election and assume direction and command of the said military forces and
ordered and directed them to go, and they did go, in obedience to said order, to the polling places in said city, on the said day of said election, and
thereby mnany thousand of voters, to wit, more than enough to have changed
the result of the said election, were intimidated and alarmed, and failed
and refused to go to the polls or to vote on said day; that for this cause
the said election in the City of Louisville and County of Jefferson, was not
free and equal, but is void, and the said alleged votes cast thereat should
not be counted.
Third. The Contestant says that on the day of the said election in the
city of Louisville, and County of Jefferson, Sterling B. Toney, one of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

"Further answering herein defendants, W. S. Taylor and
John Marshall, say, each of them is over forby years of age,
circuit judges of the County and City aforesaid, without authority of law,
issued a mandatory injunction, by which he required the legally appointed
officers of the election for the City and County aforesaid, to admit in to
the polling places during said election many persons who were not authorized or required by law to be in said polling places, and take part in said
election and the pretended count of ballots, and were kept and maintained
in the said places unlawfully and wrongfully by the said officers of said
Judge and the military power of the State, under the direct command of
the Governor, by reason of which the votes cast at said election were not
fairly counted, but the result left in doubt and uncertainty, and for this
cause the said election was void and the alleged and prdtended votes cast
thereat in said city should not be counted.
Fourth. The said Confestant says that at the said election, held as aforesaid, on the 7th day of November, 1899, in the County of Jefferson and
City of Louisville, and Warren, Hopkins, Christian, Knox, Whitley, Pulaski,
Bell and divers other counties of this Commonwealth, that many thousands
of the legal voters thereof, to wit, more than enough thereof to have changed
the result of said election, who were in the employment of the Louisville
and Nashville Railroad Company and other corporations, were intimidated
by the officers and superior employgs of said company and corporations
by threats of less employment and discharge from the service of the said
company and corporations, and were thereby forced and compelled to vote
and did, for this cause, vote for the Contestee for the office of Governor,
when in truth and in fact they desired to vote for the Contestant, and would
have done so but for such intimidation and duress. For this cause the said
election held in said counties was and is void.
Fifth. The Contestant says that before the said election on November 7,
1899, the leaders of the Renublican party in the Commonwealth corruptly
and fraudulently entered into an agreement and conspiracy With the said
officers of the Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company and the American
Book Company and other corporations and trusts, by which the said companies, corporations and trusts agreed to furnish large sums of money to
he used in defeating the Contestant at said election by bribing and corrupting the voters and election officers of this Commonwealth and debauching
the public press thereof; and that in pursuance to the said conspiracy the
said companies, corporations and trusts did furnish large sums of .money,
which were so corruptly and unlawfully used in the counties of °Jefferson,
Warren, Fayette, Breathitt, Hopkins, Daviess, Logan, Todd, Henderson,
Pulaski, Whitley, Knox, Bell, Hardin and divers other counties of the Commonwealth, and by which many thousands of the legal voters thereof were
bribed and corrupted, and thereby caused to vote for Contestee. Newspapers were purchased and debauched and office - of said election bribed,
and the Contestant deprived of many thousand votes which he would have

TAYLOR AND MARSHALL v. BECKHAM (NO. 1). 555
Statement of the Case.

has been a citizen and resident of the State of Kentucky all his
life, and likeise a citizen and resident of the United States all
his life. They say further that, as hereinafter more specifically
received but for the unlawful and corrupt conspiracy aforesaid, which votes
were sufficient to have elected him.
Sixth. The Contestant further says that in the counties of Knox and
Lewis, the County Board of Election Officers, whose duty it was, by law,
to correctly certify the result of the election .held in their respective counties, were compelled by unlawful mandatory injunctions issued by circuit
jidges and clerks, to sign false returns and certificates of said election,
giving to the Contestee large majorities of the votes cast in said counties;
and in the county of Knox, the said board was compelled by duress and
open threats of violence from a large body of armed citizens of said county,
assembled at the county seat, to sign false and fraudulent certificates. In
the county of Jeffersohi, the officers-who held said election at the voting
places in the city of Louisville, were compelled to sign like false and fraudlent certificates of said election, by duress, and under threats of Sterling
B. Toney, one of the circuit judges of the Commonwealth, who announced
his purpose to fine and imprison said officers if they did not sign said false
certificates. By reason of the duress aforesaid, and the said unlawful mandatory injunctions, the votes in the said counties and all the precincts
thereof, were not correctly counted or certified, and the said votes so certified should not now be counted in determining the result of said election.
All of said certificates were signed and made under duress, and would not
have been signed but for the facts aforesaid.
Seventh. -The Contestant says that in pursuance to a conspiracy of the
leaders of the Republican party in Kentucky, and the United States Marshal for the District of Kentucky, to intimidate and deter the Democrats
and friends of Contestant from voting for him, said Marshall and other
officers and persons threatened to indict many of Contestant's supporters
in .the United States Court for the District of' Kentucky for alleged violation of law in connection with said election, and, in pursuance to said conspiracy, caused their threats to be published in the daily press of the State,
and in other forms, and upon the day of said election caused Deputy United
States marshals to be and remain at the polling places in the city of Louisville, and in various other cities of the Commonwealth, intermeddling with
the said election, overawing, threatening and intimidating Democratic voters
and their friends and supporters of the Contestant, whereby many voters,
to wit, more than enough to have changed the result of said election, were
prevented from voting for Contestant, who otherwise would have done so.
Eighth. The Contestant says that after said election and before the meeting of the State Board of Election Commissioners, in the city of Frankfort,
a conspiracy was formed and entered into by the Contestee, the Louisville
and Nashville Railroad Company, John Whallen, who was its paid agent,
and other persons whose names are unknown to Contestant, to bring from

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

stated the said Taylor was, on November 7, 1899, duly elected
Governor of the State of Kentucky, and the said Marshall duly
elected Lieutenant Governor for the State of Kentucky by the
qualified voters thereof; that each of them afterwards received
various sections of this Commonwealth large numbers of desperate armed
men, for the purpose of alarming and intimidating the members of the said
Election Board in the discharge of their duties, and the friends and supporters of said Contestant; and that in pursuance to said conspiracy the
corporations and persons aforesaid, did transport to the City of Frankfort
at said time, a large number of the militia of the State, dressed in citizens'
clothing, and many hundreds of desperate armed men, and unlawfully kept
and maintained said militia and armed men in and about the chamber and'
Capitol where said Election Board held its sessions for several days; for
the unlawful purpose of alarming and intimidating the members of said
Board and the good citizens of the Commonwealth; and the said corporation and persons also caused the military forces of the Commonwealth to
be armed and equipped and held in readiness and the state arsenal to be
guarded by armed men for the unlawful purpose aforesaid, and Democratic
members of the military companies of the state militia to be disarmed and
discharged and their places to be filled with Republicans.
Ninth. The Contestant for further grounds of contest herein says that,
in the County of Jefferson, the County Board of Election officers, whose
duty it was to ascertain and correctly certify the result of said election
held in said County, were compelled by threats of violence and death to
the two Democratic members of said Board to accept, and said Board by
reason of the duress aforesaid, did accept, false, fraudulent and illegal returns from the various precincts in the City of Louisville, which returns
were prepared by the attorneys and agents of the Republican party and
were signed by the precinct officers aforesaid under duress and threats of
fiue and imprisonment, and said Board of Election officers, by reason of the
duress aforesaid, based upon their certificate as to the result of said election in said county upon the said false, fraudulent and illegal returns
made by the said precinct officers as aforesaid, and for this cause the Contestant was deprived of many thousand votes .cast for him at said election
and the Contestee was given many thousand illegal votes to which he was
not entitled, to wit, more than enough to liave changed the result of the
said election, and for this cause the said election was and is void and the
alleged vote of Jefferson County as certified by said County Board should
not be counted in ascertaining the result of said election in this Commonwealth.
Tenth. The Contestant further avers that many thousand of persons,
who were not entitled to vote at the said election, on November 7, 1899,
were unlawfully brought into this Commonwealth by the agents of the
Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company and others acting in Contestee's
behalf, and at said election were wrongfully and unlawfully voted for the

TAYLOR AND MARSHlALL v. BECKHAM (NO. 1). 557
Statement of the Case.

in due form a certificate to that effect from the State Board of
Election Commissioners of the Commonwealth of Kentucky,
and each of them thereafter duly qualified as such officers by
taking the oath of office prescribed by law therefor, and thereby
each of them became charged with an express public trust for
the benefit of the people of the State of Kentucky. They say
that the proceedings referred to in the petition herein by which
it is alleged that the contests over the offices of Governor and
Lieutenant Governor were tried and determined, and by which
it is alleged, that the authority of these defendants to act respectively as Governor and Lieutenant Governor was terminated, were and are utterly void, and of no effect for the reasons
hereinafter stated, and if effect be given to them, and these
defendants be thereby deprived of their respective offices of
Governor and Lieutenant Governor of Kentucky, and plaintiff,
Beckham, be thereby installed in the office of Governor or Lieutenant Governor of Kentucky, these defendants will be thereby
deprived by.the State of Kentucky of their property without
due process of law and both they and the people of Kentucky,
and the qualified voters thereof will be deprived of their liberty without due process of law, and will be denied the benefit
of a republican form of government, all of which is contrary to
the provisions of the fourth section of the fourth article of the
said Constitution and to the Fourteenth Amendment to said
Constitution, the benefits of which provisions are hereby specially set up and claimed by these defendants both"for themselves and for the people of Kentucky, and the qualified voters
thereof, whose representatives and trustees these defendants
are."

"Defendants further say that, if the State, after having fur-:
nished to its citizens and electors in a number of its counties
official ballots upon which it required them to vote, or not vote
Contestee in said election; that the number of votes so cast were sufficient
to have changed the result of said election.
The Contestant will, upon the grounds aforesaid, at the time and place
and before the tribunals stated, contest the election of said William S. Taylor to the office of Governor of this Commonwealth."

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

at all, in the election of a Governor and Lieutenant Governor,
shall reject their votes, and thus refuse to allow used them to
participate in the election of such officers, merely because they
in voting the ballots which the State required them to use, and
if the State shall, thereby and on that account, refuse to allow
the persons respectively chosen for the office of Governor and
Lieutenant Governor by the majority of the qualified voters of
the State, including those using the ballots aforesaid, to take
their seats and perform the duties of Governor and Lieutenant
Governor, and shall in lieu of them seat other persons, then the
State will thereby deprive the said citizens and electors, all of
whom are both citizens of Kentucky and citizens of the United
States, of their political liberty without due process of law, in
violation of the Constitution of the United States, and will
thereby deny to them the benefits of a republican form of government in violation of the Constitution of the United States;
and will thereby also deprive these defendants of their property
without due process of law, all of which is contrary to the provisions of the Constitution of the United States."
"And defendants further say that if any such pretended
meeting of members df the General Assembly was held either
on January 31 or February 2, at which any action was taken
or attempted to be taken on the reports of said Contest Cominittees, the said meetings were held secretly, without any notice to any of the Republicai members of the General Assembly
and without any notice to either of these defendants that such
meetings were to be held, and without any opportunity either
to the said Republican members or any of them to be present,
or any opportunity for either of these defendants to be present
at such meethigs at which the said "contests were to be heard
and determined. And if any such meetings were held or attempted to be held on either of those days, and any determination of either of said contests was pretended to have been had,
it was utterly void on account of lack of notice, and opportunity
to be present or to be heard as just herein stated, as well as for
the other reasons heretofore given. And to deprive these defendants or either of them of their offices by such action would

TAYLOR AND MARSHALL v. BECKHAM (NO. 1). 559
Statement of the Case.

be to deprive them of their property without due process of
law, and would be to deprive defendants and the other people
of the State of Kentucky, and especially the qualified voters
thereof, of their political liberty without due process of law, and
to deny to them the benefits of a republican form of government. All of which is contrary to the provisions and guaranties of the Constitution of the United States as well as that of
Kentucky."
"Defendants further say that both the offices of Governor
and-Lieutenant Governor are offices created by the constitution
of Kentucky, and, therefore, not subject to abolition by the
General Assembly of Kentucky. And, furthermore, it is provided by the constitution of Kentucky, that 'the salaries of
public officers shall not be changed during the term for which
they were elected,' and defendants say they were elected as
heretofore shown to the offices of Governor and Lieutenant Governor, respectively, of the State of Kentucky on
November 7, 1899, for a period of four years each, and then
and thereby became entitled to exercise the functions of said
offices and to receive the salaries and emoluments appertaining
thereto, which are large and valuable, and were such when
they were thus elected; the salary of the Governor being then
and now fixed by law at $6500 per annum; and to take from
them their said offices and their said salaries and emoluments
by the aforesaid action of said contest tribunals w ould be to
deprive them of their property without due process of law, contrary to the provisions of the Constitution of the United States,
and especially of the Fourteenth Amendment thereof."
"Defendants say that the power vested in the Houses of the
General Assembly of Kentucky to try contests over elections
of Governor or Lieutenant Governor is judicial in its nature,
and is subject to the same limitations and restrictions to which
the exercise of judicial power is ordinarily subject; that by the
constitution of the State of Kentucky and also by the Constitution of the United States, especially the Fifth and Fourteenth
Amendments thereof, the exercise of absolute and arbitrary

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

power by the State or any department thereof, whereby any
person shall be deprived of life, liberty, property or the pursuit of happiness, including therein the enjoyment of honors
and the occupation of positions of public trust and emolument,
is forbidden. But defendants say that if effect be given to the
alleged decisions by the said Boards of Contest or the said
Houses of the General Assembly as to the said contested elections for Governor or Lieutenant Governor; and these defendants be thereby deprived of the offices of Governor or Lieuteiiant Governor, and the plaintiff Beckham be thereby vested
with the power of Governor of Kentucky, then not only will
the people of Kentucky be deprived of their political liberty
without due process of law, but these defendants will also be
deprived without due process of law of the right to hold the
said offices of Governor and Lieutenant Governor, which are
both profitable and honorable, all of which is contrary to and
forbidden by both the provisions of the state constitution and'
of the Constitution of the United States above referred to, and
defendants say that if by a proper construction of the constitution of Kentucky the absolute and arbitrary power is given
either to the Boards of Contest or the Houses of the General
Assembly to take froin these defendants the offices of honor,
trust and emolument to which they were elected by the people
of the State as heretofore alleged, under the false guise of a
trial of a contest over said offices, then the said Constitution of
the State is itself contrary to the aforesaid provisions of the
Constitution of the United States."
The prayer of the defendants was that the bill be dismissed;
that J. C. W. Beckham be adjudged a usurper, and that William S. Taylor and John Marshall be, respectively, adjudged
the Governor and Lieutenant Governor of the Commonwealth.
The-answers were in large part disposed of on demurrer and
motion to strike out, and the case was submitted to the Circuit
Court for determination on the law and facts without the intervention of a jury, and defendants "moved the court to state
in writing the conclusions of fact found separately from the
conclusions of law;." but it was agreed that the court might
adopt its opinion on demurrer as its statement of its conclusions

TAYLOR AND MARSHALL v. BECKHAM (NO. 1). 561
Statement of the Case.

of law. This the court did, and found the facts in its judginent, which findings included, among others, these:
"Second. William Goebel and J. C. W. Beckham inaugurated
a contest for the offices of Governor and Lieutenant Governor
respectively before the General Assembly of Kentucky on the
second day of January, 1900, against William S. Taylor and
John Marshall, and the said contest was finally determined by
the General Assembly on the second day of February, 1900, at
Which time it was adjudged and determined by each House of
said General Assembly, acting separately and also in joint session, that the said William Goebel was duly elected Governor
of the Commonwealth of Kentuqky for the term beginning December 13, 1899, and was entitled to said office of Governor,
and it was then and there in like manner determined by said
General Assembly and by each House acting separately'and in
joint session that the said J. C. W. Beckham was duly elected
Lieutenant Governor of said Commonwealth for the same term.
"Third. Immediately after the' said determination the oath
of office of Governor as provided by law was administered to
said Goebel, February 2, 1900, and the oath of office as Lieutenant Governor, as provided by law, was in like manner administered to X. C. W. Beckham.
"Fourth. Said William Goebel died on the third day of February, at 6:45 P.m., and shortly thereafter upon said day J. C.
W. Beckham as Lieutenant Governor was sworn, as required
by law, to discharge the duties of the office of Governor of the
Commonwealth."
Judgment of ouster was rendered in favor of plaintiff and
against defendants.
The case was then carried on appeal to the Court of Appeals
of Kentucky and the judgment affirmed, 56 S. W. Rep. 177,
whereupon a writ of error from this court was allowed by the
Chief Justice of that court.
The Journals of the two Houses, attached to the petition as
part thereof, showed that the General Assembly convened on
January 2, 1900, and that on the third day after its organization Boards of Contest were appointed pursuant to the statute;
'that on February 2, 1900, the Board in each of the contests reVOL. cLXXvin-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

ported to the two Houses that they had heard all the evidence
offered by the parties, and that William Goebel had received
the highest number of legal votes cast for Governor; that J. C.
-W. Beckham had received the highest number of legal votes
cast for Lieutenant Governor; and that they were duly elected
and entitled to those offices. The Journals further showed that
on the same day both Houses, with a quorum present, approved
and adopted, separately, and in joint session, the reports of the
Contest Boards, and declare4 that William Goebel and J. C. W.
Beckham were duly elected Governor and Lieutenant Governor
respectively.
It appeared that thereupon said Goebel and Beckham on that
day, February 2, took the oath of office; that on January 30
William Goebel was shot by an assassin, receiving a wound
from which he afterward died on February 3; and that on
January 31 defendant Taylor as Governor issued.a proclamation, declaring that a state of insurrection existed at Frankfort,
Kentucky, adjourning the General Assembly until February 6,
and ordering it then to assemble at the town of London, in
Laurel County.
The sessions of the General Assembly on February 2 were not
held at the State House, for the reason, as recited in the journals,
that it was occupied by a military force, which would not allow
the General Assembly to meet there, and thereupon the General
Assembly met on that day in the Capitol Hotel in the city of
Frankfort. On February 19 the General Assembly met at the
State House, and the Senate on that day adopted the following
resolution :
"Whereas, on the 31st day of January, 1900, the acting Governor of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, by the use of armed
force, dispersed the General Assembly, and has until recently
prevented the Senate and House from assembling at their regular rooms and places of meeting ; and,
"Whereas, the General Assembly and each House thereof,
after public notice, met in joint and separate sessions in the city
ot Frankfort, a full quorum of such bodies being present, and
adopted the majority reports and resolutions of the Boards of
Contest for Governor and Lieutenant Governor of the Common-

TAYLOR AND MARSHALL v. BECKHAM (NO. 1). 563
Statement of the Case.

wealth of Kentucky, unseating the contestees,. W. S. Taylor
and John Marshall, as Governor and Lieutenant - Goveriior, and
-seating the contestants, William Goebel and J.OC. W. Beckham,
as Governor and Lieutenant Governor, respectively, all of whichproceedings, reports and resolutions are set out in the Journals
of the two Houses of the General Assembly; and,
1"Whereas, this joint assembly is now enabled to meet in its
regular place of meeting, and, whilst it adheres to the belief
beyond doubt that the action of the General Assembly heretofore taken in reference to said contests is valid, final and conclusive, to remove any doubt that may exist in the minds of any
of the lpeopl6 of the Commonwealth; how, b6 it
"Resolved, By the General Assembly of the Commonwealth
of Kentucky, in joint session assembled, to the end that all
doubt may be removed, if any exists, as to the validity and
regularity of the action and proceedings at the times and places
shown by the Journals of the two Houses, other than its regular rooms, provided, by law, that all the acts, proceedings and
resolutions of the Senate and House and of the joint assembly
of the two Houses upon or touching the report of the majority
of the Boards of Contest for the offices of Governor and Lieutenant Governor, unseating the contestees and seating William
Goebel and J. 0. W. Beckham, and declaring them to have been
elected Governor and Lieutenant Governor, respectively, on the
,7th day of November, 1899, is hereby regnacted, readopted and
reaffirmed and ratified at this, the regular place of meeting
provided by law, at the seat of government in Frankfort, Ky."
The same resolution was adopted by the House, and on February 20 by both Houses in joint session.
• The Court of Appeals regarded the disposal of the following
contentions of Taylor and Marshall as decisive of the case,
namely: (1.) That the proceedings of the Legislature of February 2 were void, because the Legislature had then been adjourned by the Governor until February 6, and no legal session
could be held in the meantime. (2.) That William Goebel having died on February 3, the contest for the office of Governor
thereby abated, and the action of the Legislature on February 19 and -20 was therefore void. (3.) That the Legislature

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

took no action on February 2, and that the Journals of these
meetings were fraudulently made by the clerk in pursuance of
an alleged conspiracy between certain members of the Assembly
and contestants. (4.) That the General Assembly acted without evidence and arbitrarily.
The Court of Appeals held that the Governor had no power
to adjourn the Legislature, and that his attempt to do so was
wholly void, and did not interfere with the right of the Legislature to proceed with its sessions at Frankfort. The only
authority relied on to sustain his action was section 36 of the
constitution of Kentucky, as follows: "The first General Assembly, the members of which shall be elected under this constitution, shall meet on the first Tuesday after the first Monday
in January, eighteen hundred and ninety-four, and thereafter
the General -Assemblyshall meet on the same day every second
year, and its sessions shall be held at the seat of government,
except in case of war, insurrection or pestilence, when it may,
by proclamation of the Governor, assemble, for the time being,
elsewhere."
This the court held did not provide for the adjournment of
the General Assembly by the Governor after it had assembled,
but for the designation of another place at which it might assemble for the time being and organize, when prevented by the
causes named from doing so at the capital; and that it was
not intended to authorize sucl action as was taken was clear
from section 80, which provided among other things: "In
case of disagreement between the two Houses with respect to
the time of adjournment, he (the.Governor) may adjourn them
to such time as he may think proper, not exceeding four months."
This showed that the Governor had no power over the time of
adjournment of the two Houses, except in cases of disagreement
as to that matter between them, and no such disagreement existed here. And even then it did not confer upon him power to
name any other place than that in which the legislature might
be sitting.
Section 41 also provided: "Neither House, during the session of the General Assembly, shall, without the consent of the
other, adjourn for more than three days, nor to any other place

TAYLOR AND MARSHALL v. BECKHAM (NO. 1).

565

Statement of the Case.

than that in which it may be sitting." By this section either
House might, with the consent of the other, adjourn for more
than three days, or to any other place than that in which it
was sitting; butit could not have been intended that the Governor should have like power. On the contrary, the powers of
the state government were divided into three distinct and independent departments, and the Statepconstitution was intended
to maintain the absolute independence of each.
The court further decided that the death of William Goebel
on February third did not affect the right of Beckhdm. If
Goebel was elected Governor, and Beckham, Lieutenant Gov.
ernor, Beckham on February third became entitled to the office
of Governor, and had the right to continue the contest to secure what the Constitution guaranteed him, so that if the legislature had not acted until February 19, it had a right then to
act on the contest, and its action would be none the less valid
because not taken in Goebel's lifetime.
As to the validity of the entries in the Journals and the
effect to be given them, the court ruled, citing many authorities,' that evidence aliunde could not be received to impeach
the validity of the record prescribed by the constitution as evidence of the proceedings of the General Assembly, and that
the court was without jurisdiction to go behind the record
thereby made. Among other things the court said (page 181):
"There is no conflict between the action of the state Canvassing Board and that of the Legislature in these cases. The
state Canvassing Board were without power to go behind the
returns. They were not authorized to hear evidence and determine who was in truth elected, but were required to give a
certificate of election to those who on the face of the returns
had received the highest number of votes. For the state Board
to have received evidence to impeach the returns before them
'Cooley on Const. Lim.. (5th ed.) 222; Wright v. Defrees, 8 Ind. 298;
McCulloch v. State, 11 Ind. 424; State v. Moffitt, 5 Ohio, 358; Wise v. Bigger, 79 Va. 269; Sunbury & Erie Railroad Co. v. Cooper, 33 Pa. St. 278;
Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 87; Ex parte McCardle, 7 Wall. 506; United
States v. Des Moines Co., 142 U. S. 510, 544; United States v. Old Settlers,
148 U. S. 427, 466.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

would have been for them, in effect, to act as a Board for trying a contested election, and if they had done this, they would
have usurped the power vested in the General Assembly by
the constitution; for by its express terms only the General
Assembly can determine a contested election for Governor and
Lieutenant Governor.
"But the certificate of the State Board of Canvassers is no
evidence as to who was in truth elected. Their certificate entitles the recipient to exercise the office until the regular constitutional authority shall determine who is the de jure officer.
The rights of the de jure officer attached when he was elected,
although the result was unknown until it was declared by the
proper constitutional authority. When it was so declared, it
was simply the ascertainment of a fact hithertd i" doubt, or
unsettled. The rights of the defacto officer, under his certificate from the Canvassing Board, were provisional or temporary
until the determination of the result of the election as provided
in the constitution; and upon that de.termination, if adverse to
him, they ceased altogether. Such a determination of the result of the election, by the proper tribunal, did not take from
him any pregxisting right; for, if not in fact elected, he had
only a, right to act until the result of the election could be determined."
In respect of the allegation that the action of the General
Assembly was void because without evidence and arbitrary, the
court held that it must be presumed that the Legislature did
its duty in the premises; and further that the objections that
the notices of contest were insufficient and that the evidence
was equally insufficient; that the Contest Boards were not
fairly drawn by lot, and that certain members of the Boards
were liable to objection on the ground of partiality, were all in
respect of matters confided to the General Assembly to deal
with as made by the constitution the sole tribunal to determine
such contests.
To the argument that if all the specifications of contestants
were true, the election was wholly void, and no one elected, the
court replied that it had no means of knowing the grounds on
which the General Assembly reached its conclusion; that the

TAYLOR AND MARSHALL v. BECKHAM (NO. 1). 567
Statement of the Case.

presumptions were in favor of their judgment, and that "wpen
they found as a fact that the contestants received the highest
number of legal votes cast in the election in controversy, we
are not at liberty to go behind their findings."
The court further held that the Proceedings were not in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment, and said:
"The office of Governor being created by the constitution
of this State, the instrument creating it might properly provide
how the officer was to be elected and how the result of this
election should be determined. The provisions of the constitution on this subject do not abridge the privileges or immunities
of citizens of the United States. Suchan office is not property,
and in determining merely the result of the election, according
to its own laws, the State deprives no one of life, liberty or
property. In creating this office, the State had a right to provide such agencies as it saw fit to determine the result of the
election, and it had a right to provide such a mode of procedure
as it saw fit. It is wholly a matter of state policy. The people of the State might, by an amendment to their constitution,
abolish the office altogether. The determination of the result
of an election is purely a political question, and if such suits as
this may be maintained, the greatest disorder will result in the
public business. It has always been the policy of our law to
provide a summary process for the settlement of such contests,
to the end that public business shall not be interrupted; but if
such a suit as this may be maintained, where will such a contest end ?"
Of the seven members of the tribunal, Hazelrigg, C. J., Paynter, Hobson and White, JJ., concurred in the principal opinion
by Hlobson, J.; and Burnam and Guffy, JJ., in the result, in a
separate opinion by Burnam, J., on the ground "-that there is
no power in the courts of the State to review the finding of the
General Assembly in a contested election for the offices of Governor and Lieutenant Governor as shown by its duly authenticated records." Du Relle, J., dissented, holding that the Boards
of Contest had no jurisdiction in the matter which they undertook to try, and that the demurrer should have been carried
back to the petition and sustained.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

The present constitution of the State of Kentucky, of 1891,
provides, § 90: "Contested elections for Governor and Lieutenant Governor shall be determined by both Houses of the General Assembly, according to such regulations as may be established by law." This was taken verbatim from the twentyfourth section of article three of the constitution of 1850.
Section 27 of article III of the constitution of 1799 provided: "Contested elections for a Governor and Lieutenant
Governor shall be determined by a committee, to be selected
from both Houses of the General Assembly, and formed and
regulated in subh manner as shall be directed by law."
The statutes of Kentucky prbvide:
"§ 1535. No application to contest the election of an officer
shall be heard, unless notice thereof in writing signed by the
party contesting, is given.
"1. The notice shall state the grounds of the contest, and
none other shall afterward be heard as coming from such
party; but the contestee may make defence without giving
counter notice.
"2. In the ease of an officer elective by the voters of the
whole State, or any judicial district, the notice must be given
within thirty days after the final action of the Board of Canvassers."
"§1596 A,
"8. CONTESTED ELECTION OF GOVERNOR AND LIEUTENANT GovERBOF. When the election of a Governor or Lieutenant Gov-

ernor is contested, a Board for determining the contest shall be
formed in the manner following:
"First. On the third day after the organization of the General Assembly which meets next after the election, the Senate
shall select, by lot, three of its members, and the House of Representatives shall select, by lot, eight of its members, and the
eleven so selected shall constitute a Board, seven of whom
shall have power to act.
"Second. In making the selection by lot, the name of each
member present shall be written on a separate piece of paper,
every such piece being as nearly similar to the other as may be.

TAYLOR AND MARSHALL v,.
BECKHAM (NO. 1). 569
Statement of the Case.

Each piece shall be rolled up so that the name thereon cannot
be seen, nor any particular piece be ascertained or selected by
feeling. The whole so prepared shall be placed by the clerk in
a box on his table, and after it has been well shaken up and the
papers therein well intermixed, the clerk shall draw out one paper, which shall be opened and read aloud by the presiding officer, and so on until the required number is obtained. The persons
whose names are so drawn shall be members of the Board.
"Third. The members of the Board so chosen by the two
Houses shall be sworn by the Speaker of the House of Representatives to try the contested election, and give true judgment
thereon, according to the evidence, unless dissolved before rendering judgment.
"Fourth. The Board shall, within twenty-four hours after its
election, meet, appoint its chairman and assign a day for hearing the contest, and adjourn from day to day as its business may
require.
I"Fifth. If any person so selected shall swear that he cannot,
without great personal inconvenience, serve on the Board, or
that he feels an undue bias for or against either of the parties,
he may be excused by the House from which he was chosen-from
serving on the Board, and if it appears that the person so selected is related to either party, or is liable to any other proper
objection on the score of its partiality, he shall be excused.
"Sixth. Any deficiency in the proper number so created shall
be supplied by another draw from the box.
'-Seventh. The Board shall have power to send for persons,
papers and records, to issue attachments therefor signed by its
chairman or clerk, and issue commissions for taking proof.
"Eighth. Where it shall appear that the candidates receiving
the highest number of votes given have received an equal number, the right to the office shall be determined by lot, under the
direction of the Board. Where the person returned is found
not to have been legally qualified to receive the office at the
time of his election, a new election shall be ordered to fill the vacancy; Provided,the first two years of his term shall not have
expired. Where another than the person returned shall be
found to have received the highest number of legal votes given,

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

such other shall be adjudged to be the person elected and entitled to the office.
"Ninth. No decision shall be made but by the vote of six
members. The decision of the Board shall not be final nor conelusive. Such decision shall be reported to the two Houses of
the General Assembly, for the future action of the General
Assembly. And the General Assembly shall then determine
such contest.
"Tenth. If a new election is required it shall be immediately
ordered by proclamation of the Speaker of the House of Representatives to take place within six weeks thereaftei-, and on a
day not sooner than thirty days thereafter.
"Eleventh. When a new election is ordered or the incumbent adjudged not to be entitled, his powers shall immediately
cease, and, if the office is not adjudged to another it shall be
deemed to be vacant.
"Twelfth. If any member of the Board wilfully fails to attend its sessions, he shall be reported.to the House to which he
belongs, and thereupon such House shall, inits discretion, punish him by fine or imprisonment or both.
"Thirteenth. If no decision of the Board is given during
the then session of the General Assembly, it shall be dissolved
unless by joint resolution of the two Houses, it is empowered
to continue longer."
XMr. Hdr-m Bruce and AL>. W. 0. Bradley for plaintiffs in
error. XL. James P. Helm and .A'. Kennedy telm were on
the brief.
.Mr.Lawrence Maxwell, J'., and XM>.'1ewis .AfcQuownr, for
defendant in error. -Yr. JV. S. Pryar was on their brief.
MR.CHIEF JusTic FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
It is obviously essential to the independence of the States,
and to their peace and tranquility, that their power to prescribe
the qualifications of their own officers, the tenure of their offices,

TAYLOR AND MARSHALL v. BECKHAM (NO. 1). 571
Opinion of the Court.

the manner of their election, and the grounds on which, the -tribunals before which, and the mode in which, such elections may
be contested, should be exclusive, and free from external interference, except so far as plainly provided by the Constitution of
the United States.
And where controversies over the election of state officers
have reached the state courts in the manner provided by, and
been there determined in accordance with, the state constitutions and laws, the cases must necessarily be rare in which the
interference of this court can properly be invoked.
In Boyd v. Thayer, 143 U. S. 135, which was a proceeding quo
warranto,in which the Supreme Court of Nebraska had held
that James E. Boyd had not been for two years preceding his
election a citizen of the United States, and hence that under
the constitution of the State he was not eligible to the office of
Governor, this'court took jurisdiction because the conclusion of
the state court involved the denial of a right or privilege under
the Constitution and laws of the United States, upon which
the determination of whether Boyd was a citizen of the United
States'or not depended, and therefore jurisdiction to review a
decision against such right or privilege necessarily existed in
this tribunal. Missouri v. Andriano, 138 U. S. 496. And we
said (p. 161): "Each State has the power to prescribe the
qualifications of its officers and the manner in which they shall
be chosen, and the title to offices shall be tried, whether in the
judicial courts or otherwise. But when the trial is in the courts,
it is a ' case,' and if a defence is interposed under the Constitution or laws of the United States, and is overruled, then, as
in an? other case decided by the highest court of a State, this
court has jurisdiction by writ of error."
So in Kennard v. Iouisina,92 U. S. 480, concerning the
right of Kennard to the office of associate justice of the Supreme
Court of Louisiana, jurisdiction was taken on the ground that
the constitutionality of the statute under which the disputed
title to office was tried was drawn in question. The court,
speaking by Mr. Chief Justice Waite, said: "The question before us is, not whether the courts below, having jurisdiction of
the case and the parties, have followed the law, but whether

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

the law,'if followed, would have furnished Kennard the protection guaranteed by the Constitution. Irregularities and
mere errors in the proceedings can only be corrected in the
state courts. Our authority does not extend beyond an examination of the power of the courts below to proceed at all."
The writ in Foster v. Kansas, 112 U. S. 201, rested on the
same ground.
In each of the foregoing cases, the determination of the right
to the offices in dispute was reposed in the judicial courts, and
no question was expressly considered by this court as to whether
the right to a public office of a State was or was not protected
by the Fourteenth Amendment.
In Wilson v. NYorth Carolina, 169 U. S.586, 592, the Governor of North Carolina had suspended plaintiff in error as Railroad Commissioner under a statute of that State, and the state
Supreme Court had held the action of the Governor a valid exercise of the power conferred upon him, and that it was due
process of law within the meaning of the Constitution. A writ
of error from this court to review that judgment was granted,
and on hearing was dismissed. Mr. Justicy Peckham, in delivering the opinion, said: "The controversy relates exclusively
to the title to a state office, created by a statute of the State,
and to the rights of one who was elected to the office so created.
Those rights are to be measured by the statute and by the constitution of the State, excepting in so far as they may be protected by any provision of the Federal Constitution. Authorities are not required to support the general proposition that in
the consideration of the constitution or laws of a State this court
follows the construction given to those instruments by the highest court of the State. The exceptions to this rule do not embrace the case now before us. We are, therefore, concluded by
the decision of the Supreme Court of INorth Carolina as to the
proper construction of the statute itself, and that as construed
it does not violate the constitution of the State. The only
question for us to review is whether the State, through the action of its Governor and judiciary, has deprived the plaintiff
in error of his property without due process of law, or denied
to himthe equal protection of the laws. We are of opinion

TAYLOR AND MARSHALL v. BECKHAM (NO. 1). 573
Opinion of the Court.

that the plaintiff in error was not deprived of any right guar.
anteed to him by the Federal Constitution, by reason of the
proceedings before the Governor under the statute above mentioned, and resulting in his suspension from office. The proce(lure was in accordance with the constitution and laws of the
State. It was taken under a valid statute creating a state" office in a constitutional manner, as the state court has held.
What kind and how much of a hearing the officer should have
before suspension by the Governor was a matter for the state
Legislature to determine, having regard to the constitution of
the ,State. The procedure provided by a valid state law for
the purpose of changing the incumbent of a state office will
not in general involve any question for review by this court.
A law of that kind does not provide for the carrying out and
enforcement of the policy of the State with reference to its
political and internal administration, and a decision of the state
court in regard to its construction and validity will generally
be conclusive here. The facts would have to be most rare and
exceptional which would give rise in a case of this nature to a
Federal question. . . . In its internal administration the
State (so far as concerns the Federal government) has entire
freedom of choice as to the creation of an office for purely state
purposes, and of the terms upon which it shall be held by the
persons filling the office. And id such matters the decision of
the state court, that the procedure by which an officer has been
suspended or removed from office was regular and was under a
constitutional and valid statute, must generally be conclusive
in this court. . . . Upon the case made by the plaintiff in
error, the Federal question which he attempts to raise, is so unfounded in substance that we are justified in saying that it does
not really exist; that there is no fair-color for claiming that his
rights under the Federal Constitution have been violated, either
by depriving him of his property without due process of law
or by denying him the equal protection of the laws."
The grounds on which our jurisdiction is sought to be maintained in the present case are set forth in the errors assigned,
to the effect in substance: (1) That the action of the General
Assembly in the matter of these contests deprived plaintiffs in

574

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

error of their offices without due process of law. (2) That the
action of the General Assembly deprived the people of Kentucky of the right to choose their own representatives, secured
by the guarantee of the Federal Constitution of a republican
form of government to every State; and deprived them of their
political liberty without due process of law.
For more than a hundred years the constitution of Kentucky
has provided that contested elections for Governor and Lieutenant Governor shall be determined by the General Assembly.
In 1799, by a committee, "to be selected from both houses of
the General Assembly, and formed and regulated in such manner as shall be directed by law;" since 1850, "by both houses
of the General Assembly, according to such regulations as may
be established by law."
The highest court of the State has often held and, in the
present case has again declared, that under these constitutional
provisions the power of the General Assembly to determine the
result is exclusive, and that its .decision is not open to judicial
review. Batman v. Xlegowan, 1 Mete. (Ky.) 533; Stine v.
Berry, 96 Ky. 63.1
The statute enacted for the purpose of carrying the provisions
of the constitution into effect has been in existence in substance
since 1799. 1 Morehead and Brown, 593-4; Rev. Stat. Ky.
1852, chap. 32, art. 7, § 1, p. 294. Many of the States have
similar constitutional provisions and similar statutes.
We do not understand this statute to be assailed as in any
manner obnoxious to constitutional objection, but that plaintiffs
in error complain of the' action of the General Assembly under
the statute, and of the judgment of the state courts declining
to disturb that action.
It was earnestly pressed at the bar that all the proceedings
were void for want of jurisdiction apparent on the face of the
record; that under the constitution and statute, as there was
no question of an equal number of votes, or of the legal qualifi'And see State v. Marlow, 15 Ohio St. 114, 134; State v. Harmon, 31 Ohio
St. 250; Commonwealth v. Garrigues,28 Pa. St. 9; Commonwealth v. Leach,
44 Pa. St. 332; .oyce v. Goodwin, 22 Mich. 496; Baxter v. Broob?, 29 Ark.
173; State v. Lewis, 51 Conn. 113.

TAYLOR AND MARSHALL v. BECKHAM (NO. 1). 575
Opinion of the Court.

cations of the candidates, the action of the General Assembly
could only be invoked by a contest as to which of the parties
had received the highest number of legal votes, but that the
notices put forward a case, not of the election of the contestants,
but of no election at all, which the Contest Boards and the General Assembly had no jurisdiction to deal with. The notices
were, however, exceedingly broad, and set up a variety of
grounds, and specifically stated that the contestants would ask
the Boards of Contest and the General Assembly to determine
that they were legally and rightfully elected Governor and
Lieutenant Governor at the said electiowand that the contestees
were not. And the determination of the Boards and of -the
General Assembly was that contestants had received the highest number of legal votes cast for any candidate for said offices
at said election, and were duly and legally elected Governor
and Lieutenant Governor, a determination which adjudged the
notices to be sufficient, and whish did not include any matter
not within the jurisdiction of the tribunal.
We repeat, then, that the contention is that, although the
statute furnished due process of law, the General Assembly in
administering the statute denied it; and that the Court of Appeals in holding to the rule that where a mode of contesting
elections is specifically provided by the constitution or laws of
a State, that mode is exclusive, and in holding that as the power
to determine was vested in the General Assembly of Kentucky,
the decision of that body was not subject to judicial revision,
denied a right claimed under the Federal Constitution. The
Court of Appeals did, indeed, adjudge that the case did not
come within the Fourteenth Amendment, because the right
to hold the office of Governor or Lieutenant Governor of Kentucky was not property in itself, and, being created by the state
Constitution, was conferred and held solely in accordance with
the terms of that instrument and laws passed pursuant thereto,
so that, in respect of an elective office, a determinatiQn of the
result of an election, in the manner provided, adverse to a
claimant, could not be regarded as a deprivation forbidden by
that amendment.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

The view that public office is not property has been generally
entertained in this country.
In Butler v. Pennsylvania, 10 How. 402, 416, Butler and
others by virtue of a statute of the State of Pennsylvania had
been appointed Canal Commissioners for a term of one year
with a compensation of four dollars per diem, but during their
incumbency another statute was passed whereby the compensation. was reduced. to three dollars, and it was claimed that their
contract rights were thereby infringed. The court drew a distinction between such a situation and that of a contract by which
"perfect rights, certain definite, fixed private rights of property,
are vested;" and said: "These are clearly distinguishable from
measures or engagements adopted or undertaken by the body
politic or state government for the benefit of all, and from the
necessity of the case, and according to universal understanding,
to be varied or discontinued as the public good shall require.
The selection of officers, who are nothing more than agents for
the effectuating of such public purposes, is matter of public convenience or necessity, and so too are the periods for the appointment of such agents; and neither the one nor the other of these
arrangements can constitute any obligation to continue such
agents, or to reappoint them, after the measures which brought
them into being shall have been found useless, shall have been
fulfilled, or shall have been abrogated as even detrimental to
the well-being of the public.

.

.

.

It follows, then, upon

principle., that, in every perfect or competent government, there
must exist a general power to enact and to repeal laws; and to
create, and change or discontinue, the agents designated for the
execution of those laws. Such a power is indispensable for the
preservation of the body politic,, and for the safety of the individuals of the community. It is true, that this power, or the
extent of its exercise, may be controlled by the higher organic
law or constitution of the State, as is the case in some instances
"
in the state constitutions,
In Crenshiaw v. United States, 134 U. S. 99, 104, Mr. Iustice
Lamar stated the primary question in the case to be: '(Whether
an officer appointed for a definite time or during good behavior had any vested interest or contract right in his office of

TAYLOR AND MARSHALL v. BECKHAM (NO. 1). 577
Opinion of the Court.

which Congress could not deprive him." And he said, speak-,
ing for the court: "The question is not novel. There seems to
be but little difficulty in deciding that there was no such interest or right." Butler v. Pennsylvcnia,supra; Newton v. Commitone8, 100 U. S. 548; Blake v. United States, 103 U. S. 227;
and many other cases.
The decisions are numerous to the effect that
public offices
are mere agencies or trusts, and not property as such. Nor are
the salary and emoluments property, secured by contract, but
compensation for services actually rendered: Nor does the fact
that a constitution may forbid the legislature from abolishing
a public office or diminishing the salary thereof during the
term of the incumbent change its character or make it property.
True, the restrictions limit the power of the legislature to deal
with the office, but even such restrictions may be removed by
constitutional amendment. In short, generally speaking, the
nature of the relation of a public officer to the public is inconsistent with either a property or a contract right.'
The Court of Appeals not only held that the office of Governor or of Lieutenant Governor was not property under the
constitution of Kentucky; but moreover, that court was of
opinion that the decision of these contested. elections did not
deprive plaintiffs in error of any prefxisting right.
Our system of elections was unknown to the common law,
and the whole subject is regulated by constitutions and statutes
passed thereunder. In the view of the Court of Appeals the
mode of contesting elections was part of the machinery for
ascertaining the result of the election, and hence, the rights of
the officer who held the certificate of the State Board of Canvassers "were provisional or temporary until the determination
of the result of the election as provided in the constitution,

ISweeny v. .Poyntz, Cir. Ct. U. S. Dist. Ky., not yet reported, Taft, J.;
Standeford v. Wingate, 2 Duvall, (Ky.) 440, 443; Conner i. Mayor, 5 N. Y.
285; Donahue v. Will County, 100 IIl. 94; Attorney General v. Jochim,
99 Mich. 358; Smith v. Mayor, 37 N. Y. 518; State v. Hawkins, 44 Ohio St. 98;
State v. Davis, 44 Mo. 129; State v. Duvall, 26 Wis. 415, 418; Prince v.
Skillen, 71 Maine, 361; Douglas Co. v. Timme, 32 Neb. 272; Lynch v, Chase,
55 Kan. 367; Shelby v. Alcorn, 3 'Miss. 273.
VOL. OLXXVIII-37

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

and upon that determination, if adverse to him, .they ceased
altogether." In fact, the statute provided that when the "incumbent was adjudged not to be entitled, his powers shall immediately cease," and under the constitution the holder of the
certificate manifestly held it for the time being subject to the
issue of a contest if initiated.
It is clear that the judgment of the Court of Appeals in declining to go behind the decision of the tribunal vested by the
state constitution and laws, with the ultimate determination of
the right to these offices, denied no right secured by the Fourteenth Amendment.
But it is said that the Fourteenth Amendment must be read
with section 4 of article IV of the Constitution, providing that:
"The United States shall guarantee to every State in this Union
a republican form of government, and shall protect each of them
against invasion; and on application of the legislature, or of
the executive (when the legislature cannot be convened,) against
domestic violence." It is argued that ivhen the State of Kentucky entered the Union, the pe6ple "surrendered their right of
forcible revolution in state affairs," and received in lieu thereof
a distinct pledge to the people of fhe State of the guarantee of
a republican form of government, and of protection against invasion, and against domestic violence; that the distinguishing
feature of -that form of government is the right of the people
to choose their own officers for governmental administration;
that this was denied by the action of the General Assembly in
this instance; and, in effect, that this court has jurisdiction to
enforce that guarantee, albeit the judiciary of Kentucky was
unable to do so because of the division of the powers of governinent. And yet the writ before us was granted under § 709 of
-the Revised Statutes to revise the judgment of the state court
on the ground that a consitutional right was decided against by
that court.
It was long ago settled that the enforcement of this guarantee belonged to the political department. Luther v. Borden,
7 How. 1. In that case it was held that the question, which of
the two opposing governments of Rhode Island, namely, the
charter government or the government established by a volun-

TAYLOR AND MARSHALL v. BECKHAM (NO. 1). 579
Opinion of the Court.

tary convention, was the legitimate one, was a question for the
determination of the political department; and when that department had decided, the courts were bound to take notice of
the decision and follow it; and also that as the Supreme Court
of Rhode Island holding constitutional authority not in dispute,
had decided the point, the well settled rule applied that the
courts of the United States adopt and follow the decisions of
the state courts on question which concern merely the constitution and laws of the State.
We had occasion to refer to Luther v. Borden in In re .Duncan, Petitioner, 139 U. S. 4-9, 461, and we there observed:
"Mr. Webster's argument in that case took a wider sweep, and
contained a masterly statement of the American system of govermnent, as recognizing that the people are the source of all
political power, but that as the exercise of governmental powers
immediately by the people themselves is impracticable, they
must be exercised by representatives of the people; that the
basis of- representation is suffrage; that the right of sufffage
must be protected and its exercise prescribed by previous law,
and the results ascertained by some certain rule; that through
its regulated exercise each man's power tells in the constitution of the government and in the enactment of laws; that
the people limit themselves in regard to the qualifications of
electors and the qualifications of the elected, and to certain
forms for the conduct of elections; that our liberty is the
liberty secured by the regular action of- popular power, taking place and ascertained in accordance with legal and authentic modes; and that the Constitution and laws do not
proceed on the ground of rev'olution or any right of revolution,
but on the idea of results achieved by orderly action under
the autlority of existing governments, proceedings outside of
which are not contemplated by our institutions. Webster's
Works, vol. 6, p. 217.

.

.

.

The State of Texas is in. full

possession of its faculties as a member of the Union, and its
legislative, executive and judicial departments are peacefully
operating by the orderly and settled methods prescribed by its
fundamental law. Whether certain statutes have or have not
binding force, it is for the State to determine, and that deter-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

mination in itself involves no infraction of the Constitution of
the United States, and raises no Federal question giving the
courts of the United States jurisdiction."
These observations are applicable here. The Commonwealth
of Kentucky is in full possession of its faculties as a member of
the Union, and no exigency has arisen requiring the interference of the General Government to enforce the guarantees of
the Constitution, or to repel invasion, or to put down domestic
violence. In the eye of the Constitution, the legislative, executive and judicial departments of the State are peacefully operating by the orderly and settled methods prescribed by its fundamental law, notwithstanding there may be difficulties and
disturbances arising from the pendency and determination of
these contests. This very case shows that this is so, for those
who assert that they were aggrieved by the action of the General Assembly, properly accepted the only appropriate remedy,
whi6h under the law was within the reach of the parties. That
this proved ineffectual as to them, even though their grounds
of complaint may have been in fact well founded, was the resuit of the constitution and laws under which they lived and
by which they were bound. Any remedy beside that is to be
found in the august tribunal of the people, which is continually
sitting, and over Whose judgments on the conduct of public
functionaries the courts exercise no control.
We must decline to take jurisdiction on the ground of deprivation of rights embraced by the Fourteenth Amendment,
without due process of law, or of the violation of the guarantee
of a republican form of government by reason of similar deprivation.

As remarked by Chief Justice Taney in Luther v. Borden :
"The high power has been conferred on this court of passing
judgment upon the acts of the state sovereignties, and of the
legislative and executive branches of the Federal government,
and of determining whether they are beyond the limits of power
marked out for them respectively by the Constitution of the
United States. This tribunal, therefore, should be the last to
overstep the boundaries which limit its own jurisdiction. And
while it should always be ready to meet any question confided

TAYLOR AND MARSHALL v. BECKFIAM (NO. 1). 581
MR.JUSTICE BREWER and ME. JUSTICE BRoWN, dissenting.

to it by the Constitution, it is equally its duty not to pass beyond its appropriate sphere of action, and to take care not to
involve itself in discussions which properly belong to other
forums."
Writ of error dismissed.
MR . JUSTICE

MfcKENNA concurred in the result.

MR. JUSTICE BREWBR, with whom concurred MR. JusTin-.
BROWI, dissenting.
I am unable to concur in all that is said by the Chief Justice
in the opinion just announced, and will state briefly wherein I
dissent.
An office to which a salary is attached, in a case in which the
controversy is only as to which of two parties is entitled thereto,
has been adjudged by this court, and rightfully, to be property
within the scope of that clause of the Fourteenth Amendment,
which forbids a state to "deprive any person of life, liberty or
property without due process of law." In Kennard v. louisiana, 92 U. S. 480, Kennard was appointed a justice of the
Supreme Court of Louisiana. Morgan claimed to.be entitled
thereto, and brought suit to settle the title to the office. The
Supreme Court of the State decided in favor of Morgan, and
Kennard sued out a writ of error from this court on the ground
that the judgment had deprived him of his office, without due
process of law, in violation of the foregoing provision of the
Fourteenth Amendment. Of course, neither life nor liberty
were involved, and the jurisdiction of this court could be sustained only on the ground that the property of Kennard was
taken from him, as alleged, without due process of law. This
court unanimously sustained the jurisdiction, but on examination of the proceedings found that there had been due process
of law, and therefore affirmed the judgment of the Supreme
Court of Louisiana. In Foster v. Yansas, 112 U. S. 201, the
Supreme Court of Kansas had, in quo warranto proceedings,
ousted Foster from the office of county attorney of Saline
County, and there was presented a motion to dismiss as well

582

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Mn. JUSTICE BREWER, and MR. JUSTICE BROWN, dissenting.

as one to affirm. This court unanimously held that the motion to dismiss must be overruled, saying (p. 206):
"As the question of the constitutionality of the statute was
directly raised by the defendant, and decided against him by
the court, we have jurisdiction, and the motion to dismiss
must be overruled."
At the same time it affirmed the decision of the Supreme
Court of the State on the ground that the proceedings showed
due process of law. In Boyd v. Tayer, 143 U. S. 135, the
Supreme Court of Nebraska had, in an appropriate action, rendered judgment ousting Boyd from the office of governor of
the State, and placing Thayer in possession. On error to this
court we took jurisdiction of the case, and reversed the judgment of the Supreme Court of Nebraska, thus restoring Boyd
to the office from which he had been ousted by the judgment
of that court. In that case there, was a dissenting opinion
by Mr. Justice Field on the ground of jurisdiction, he saying
(p. 182):
"I dissent from the judgment just rendered. I do not think
that this court has any jurisdiction to determine a disputed
-question as to the right to the governorship of a State, however that question may be decided by its authorities."
In the late case of Tilson v. .North.Carolina, 169 U. S.586,
in which the judgment of the Supreme Court of the State, confirming the action of governor, in suspending a railroad commissioner, was sustained, and the writ of error dismissed, the
dismissal was not placed on the ground that the office, with its
salary, was not property to be protected by the Fourteenth
Amendment, but, as said Mr. Justice Peckham, speaking for
the court (p. 595):
"Upon the case made by the plaintiff in error, the Federal
question which he attempts to raise is so unfounded in substance
that we are justified in saying that it does not really exist; that
there is no fair color for claiming that his rights under the Federal Constitution have been violated, either by depriving him
of his property without due process of law, or by denying him
the equal protection of thie laws."
We have thus, in four cases, coming at successive times through

TAYLOR AND MARSHALL v. BECKHAMN

(NO. 1). 583

MR. JUSTICE BREWER and MR. JUSTICE BRowx, dissenting.

a period of twenty-five years, had before us the question of the
validity of judgments of the highest courts of separate States,
taking office from one person and giving it to another, in three
of which we unhesitatingly sustained our jurisdiction to review
such judgments, two of which we affirmed, on the ground that
the proceedings in the state court disclosed due process of law,
and that, therefore, the rights of the plaintiff in error were not
infringed; in the third of which. we held that the proceedings
could not be sustained, and reversed the judgment of the state
court, ousting one person from the high office of governor of
the State and giving it to another; and in the fourth of which,
while we dismissed the writ of error, it was not on the ground
that there was no property involved, but because the reasons
assigned for a review were so frivolous as not to call for consideration. Such a series of decisions should not now be disturbed, except .upon very cogent and satisfactory reasons. And
this case, it must be borne in mind, is exactly like the others, a
proceeding in error to review the judgment of the highest court
of a state in an action to remove an incumbent from his office.
Aside from these. adjudications, I am clear, as a matter of
principle, that an office to which a salary is attached is, as between two contestants for such office; to be considered a matter
of property. I agree -fully with those decisions which arereferred to, and which hold that as between the State and the
officeholder there is no contract right either to the term of office or the amount of salary, and that the legislature may, if
not restrained by constitutional provisions, abolish the office or
reduce the salary. But when the office is not disturbed, when
the salary is not changed, and when, under the constitution of
the State, neither can be by the legislature, and the question is
simply whether one shall be deprived of that office and its salary, and both given to another, a very different question is presented, and iii such a case to hold that the incumbent has no
property in the office with its accompanying salary does not
commend itself to my judgment.
While not concurring in the order of dismissal, I am of opinion that the judgment of the Court of Appeals of Kentucky
should be affirmed. The State of Kentucky has provided that

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER and M.' JUSTICE BROWN, dissenting.

contests in respect to the office of governor and lieutenant governor shall be decided by the General Assembly. Such provision is not uncommon, is appropriate, and reasonable. The
contestants, William Goebel and J. 0. W. Beckham, filed with
the General Assembly within due time their notices of contest.
Those notices were broad enough to justify action by the General Assembly, and a decision setting aside the award of the
canvassing board and giving to the contestants their offices.
The prescribed procedure was followed, the committee authorized by statute was selected, its report made, and upon that a
decision awarding to the contestants the offices. It is true that
the first decision of the General Assembly was made at a secret
session outside its ordinary place of meeting, and without notice
except to those who were supposed to be willing to concur in
the report of the committee. If that ended the proceedings I
should be strongly inclined to hold that the decision thus rendered could not be sustained. For when a tribunal is constituted of several members I understand that all have a right to
be present, and if any session is held elsewhere than at the appointed time and place each one must be notified in order that
he may have the opportunity of being present, and contributing
by his advice and opinion to the final judgment. But the record does not stop with this award of a part of the assembly in
secret session, for subsequently, when the General Assembly was
in session at its regular place of meeting, in the discharge of its
ordinary duties, and at a time prescribed for its meeting, the
action taken on February 2 was ratified and confirmed, both in
single and joint session. Now, I agree with those members of
the Court of Appeals of Kentucky who hold that this final action of the General Assembly is conclusive. I do not ignore
the many allegations of wrong, such as that the selection of the
committee was not by lot, as prescribed by the laws, but was a
trick on the part of the clerks of the assembly, and it must be
conceded that the outcome of that drawing lends support to
this allegation. 'Curious results sometimes happen by chance,
but when those results happen so largely along the lines of the
purposes of those who have control of the supposed chance, it is
not strange that outsiders are apt to feel that. purpose, and not

TAYLOR AND MARSHALL v. BECKHAM (NO. 1). 585
-ME. JUSTICE HARLAN, dissenting.

chance determined the result. ]Be all these things as they may,
the General Assembly was constituted as the tribunal to conduct and supervise the contest. It approved whattook place,
and it is familiar law that no question can be raised in the courts
as to the honesty or integrity of the members of the legislature
in the discharge of their duties. Whatever of purity or honesty
may be in fact lacking in the conduct of any one of them is a
matter to be inquired into between, his constituents and himself,
and it is no part of the province of the judiciary to challenge
or question the integrity of his action. So we have the case of
a committee apparently selected by lot, the propriety of whose
action was approved by the tribunal having charge of the controversy, the report of that committee in favor of the contestants, and the judgment of the assembly, not merely at the
secret session, but later, when all were present, or were called
upon to be present, approving such report. This in my opinion
constitutes due process of law within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment, and I agree with the Court of Appeals of
Kentucky that upon that award thus made by the proper tribunal, no other judgment can be entered than that which sustains it. But because, as I understand the law, this court has
jurisdiction to review a judgment of the highest court of a State
ousting one from his office, and giving it to another, a right to
inquire whether that judgment is right or wrong in respect to
any Federal question, such as due process of law, I think the
writ of error should not be dismissed, but that the judgment of
the Court of Appeals of Kentucky should be affirmed.
M . JUSTICE HARLAI, dissenting:

At the regular election held in Kentucky on the 7th day of
lNovember, 1899, William S. Taylor and William Goebel were,
respectively, the Republican and Democratic candidates for
Governor of that Commonwealth.
As required by law, the returns of the election were made
to the Secretary of State.
Upon examining and canvassing the returns, the officers
charged with the duty of ascertaining the result of the election

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
MR.JUSTICE

HARLAN,

dissenting.

certified, as to the office of Governor, that Taylor "received the
highest number of votes given for that office, as certified to the
Secretary of State, and is, therefore, duly and regularly elected
for the term prescribed by the Constitution." According to the
returns upon which that certificate was based Taylor received
193,714 votes and Goebel 191,331.
It cannot be doubted that the certificate awarded to Taylor
established at least hisprimafacieright to the Governorship,
and that he could not be deprived of that right except upon a
contest in the mode prescribed by law, and upon proof showing
that Goebel was legally entitled to the office. To deprive him
of that right illegally was an injury both to him and to the
people of the State. "The very essence of civil liberty," it
was said in Mfarbury v. .Yadison, 1 Cranch, 137, "is the right
of every individual to claim the protection of the laws, whenever he receives an injury."
The Constitution of Kentucky provides that the Governor
"shall be elected for the term of four years by the qualified
voters of the State. The person having the highest number of
votes shall be Governor; but if two or more shall be equal
and highest in votes, the election shall be determined by lot,
in such manner as the General Assembly may direct;" and
that the Governor "shall at stated times receive for his services
a compensation to be fixed by law." Const. Kentucky, §§ 70,
74. That instrument further provides that "contested elections
for Governor and Lieutenant Governor shall be determined by
both Houses of the General Assembly, according to sugh regulations as may be established by law." § 90.
Taylor, having received his certificate of election based upon
the returns to the Secretary of State, took the oath of office as
Governor on December 12, 1899- the oath being administered by the Chief Justice of the Court of Appeals of Kentucky-and entered at once upon the discharge of his duties,
taking possession of the public buildings provided for the Governor, as well as of the books, archives and papers committed
by law to the custody of that officer. After that and until he
was, lawfully ousted, his acts, -as Governor, in conformity to
law, were binding upon every branch of the state government
and upon the people.

TAYLOR AND MARSHALL v. BECKHAM (NO. 1). 5ST
MR.JUSTICE

HARLAx,

dissenting.

Within thirty days after the certificate of election was
awarded to Taylor he was served by Goebel with notice of
contest for the office of Governor.
By the statutes of Kentucky relating to contested elections
for Governor and Lieutenant Governor it is provided:
"When the election of a Governor or Lieutenant Governor
is contested a Board for determining the contest shall be formed
in the manner following:
"First. On the third day after the organization of the General Assembly, which meets next after the election, the Senate
shall select by lot three of its members, and the House of Representatives shall select by lot eight of its members, and the
eleven so selected shall constitute a Board, seven of whom shall
have power to act.
"Second. In making the selection by lot the name of each
member shall be written on a separate piece of paper, every
such piece being as nearly similar to the other as may be.
Each piece shall be rolled up so that the name thereon cannot be seen, nor any particular piece be ascertained or selected by feeling. The whole so prepared shall be placed by
the clerk in a box on his table, and, after it has been well
shaken and the paperg therein well intermixed, the clerk shall
draw out one paper, which shall be opened and read aloud by
the presiding officer, and so on until the required number is
obtained. The persons whose names are so drawn shall be
members-of the Board.
"Third. The members of the Board so chosen by the two
Houses shall be sworn by the Speaker of the House of Representativeg to try the contested election, and give true judgment
thereon, according to the evidence, unless dissolved before rendering judgment.
"Fourth. The board shall, within twenty-four hours after
its election, meet3 appoint its chairman and assign a day for
hearing the contest, and adjourn from day to day as its business may require.
"Fifth. If any person so selected shall swear that he cannot,
without great personal inconvenience, serve on the Board, or
that he feels an undue bias for or against either of the parties,

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
M .

JUSTICE HARLAN,

dissenting.

he may be excused by the House from which he was chosen
from serving on the Board, and if it appears that the person
so selected is related to either party, or is liable to any other
-proper objection on the score of his partiality, he shall be
excused.
"Sixth. Any deficiency in the proper number so created
shall be supplied by another draw from the box.
" Seventh. The Board shall have power to send for persons,
papers and records, to issue attachments therefor, signed by its
chairman or clerk, and issue commissions for taking proof.
"Eighth. Where it shall appear that the candidates receiving
the highest number of votes given have received an equal number, the right to the office shall be determined by lot, under
the direction of the Board. Where the person returned is
found not to have been legally qualified to receive the office at
the time of his election, a new election shall be ordered to fill
the vacancy: Provided, The first two years of his term shall
not have expired. Where another than the person returned
shall be found to have received the highest number of legal
votes given, such other shall be adjudged to be the person
elected and entitled to the office.
. "Ninth. No decision shall be made but by the vote of six
members. The decision of the Board shall not be final nor
conclusive. Such decision shall be reported to the two Houses
of the General Assembly, for the future action of the General
Assembly. And the General Assembly shall then determine
such contest.
"Tenth. If a new election is required it shall be immediately
ordered by proclamation of the Speaker of the House of Representatives, to take place within six weeks thereafter, and on
a day not sooner than thirty days 'thereafter.
"Eleventh. When anew election is ordered or the incumbent
adjudged not to be entitled, his powers shall immediately cease,
and, if.the office is not adjudged to another, it.shall be deemed
to be vacant.
"Twelfth. If any member of the Board wilfully fails to
attend its sessions, he shall be-reported to the House to which
he belongs, and thereupon such House shall, in its discretion,
punish him by fine and imprisonment, or both.

TAYLOR AND MARSHALL v. BECKHAM (NO. 1). 589
MR.JUSTICE HARLAN,

dissenting.

"Thirteenth. If no decision of the Board is given during the
then session of the General Assembly, it shall be dissolved, unless by joint resolution of the two Houses it is empowered to
continue longer." Rev. Stat. Kentucky, § 1596 A.
It may be here observed that the jurisdiction conferred by
the statute upon the Board of Contest appointed by the Legislature is not without limit. The power given to determine
contested elections for Governor and Lieutenant Governor is
attended by the condition that the determination of the contest.
shall be according to such regulations as may be established by
law. In words too clear to require construction the powers of
a Board of Contest are restricted so that (1) if the votes were
not accurately summed up, the error might be corrected; (2) if
illegal votes were cast they might be thrown out; (3) in the
event "the candidates receiving the highest number of votes
given have received an equal number, the right to the office
shall be determined by lot"; (4) if the person returned as
elected was not legally qualified to receive the office at the election, a new election must be ordered to fill the vacancy; (5) if
another than the person returned is found "to have received the
highest number of legal votes given, such other shall be adjudged
to be the person elected and entitled to the office." The statute
has been so construed by the highest court of Kentucky in
leeman v. Hinton, 1 Duvall, 38. That was a common law
action involving the title to an office. The defendant relied
upon the decision of a Board of Contest to the effedt that Leeman's claim to the office rested upon an election held in each
precinct under the supervision of military officers who overawed the majority of the voters in the county. The Court of
Appeals of Kentucky decided in favor of Leeman, saying:
"But the authority to decide as to the freedom and equality of
elections has not been conferred by the Legislature upon the
Board for trying contested elections, but forms a part of the
general jurisdiction of the coukt." In the previous case of -Newcum v. .Ktly,13 B. Mon. 522-which was a contested election
case in which the Board assumed to count votes not cast, but
which would have been cast if the polls had not been closed too
soon-the court said that "the necessary and certain import of

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, dissenting.

the provision is that the contesta shall not be adjudged to be
entitled to the office unless the Board find that he has received
the highest number of legal votes given."
Let it also be observed that the Board of Contest in this case
was not given jurisdiction to throw out all the votes cast in a
particular city, county or section of the State because, in its
judgment, the freedom of the election in such city, county or
section was destroyed by military or other interference. In
other words, the Board was without jurisdiction to throw out
legal votes actually given, and was bound to respect the mandate of the constitution that "the person having the highest
number of votes shall be Governor," as well as the mandate of
the statute that the person "found to have received the highest
number of votes . . . shall be adjudged to be the person
elected and entitled to the office."
I remark further that the members elected to .try the contested election were required by the statute "to give true judgment according to the evidence."
As to the Legislature, it was made its duty by express wordsto determine the contest, without regarding the decision of the
Board as final or conclusive. But as already suggested, its
jurisdiction to act whs not without limit; for, in addition to
the restrictions above referred to, by the statute under which
it proceeded no application to contest the election of an officer
could be heard unless notice thereof in writing, signed by the
party contesting, had. been given; and "the notice shall state
the grounds of the contest, and none other shall afterward be
heard as coming from such party, but the contestee may make
defencewithout giving counter notice." Rev. Stat. Kentucky,
§ 1535. The Board of Contest,:as the court below has said,
was only a preliminary agent to take evidence and report the.
facts to the General Assembly. The Assembly itself finally
determined the contest." As the General Assembly could determine the contest only upon the grounds set forth in the
contestant's notice, it had no authority or jurisdiction to oust
the incumbent unless those grounds or some of them were sustained by proof laid before it. If no proof was laid before it,
"then the primafacieright of the incumbent based upon the
certificate awarded to him, must prevail.

TAYLOR AND MARSHALL v. BECKHAM (NO. 1). 591
MRi.JUSTICE HARLAN, dissenting.

With these preliminary observations as to the trial by a
Board of Contest of a contested election for Governor, and as
to the powers of the Legislature in determining such contest
finally as between the parties, I come to the consideration of
the grounds upon which the majority of the court have dismissed the present writ of error.
The Board of Contest in their report of January 30, 1900,
say; "In our opinion William Goebel was elected Governor of
the Commonwealth of Kentucky on the 7th day of November,
1899, and that he then and there received the highest number
of legal votes cast for any one for the office of Governor at said
election, and we therefore respectfully suggest that this report
be approved, and a resolution adopted by the General Assembly
declaring the said William Goebel Governor-elect of the Commonwealth of Kentucky for the term commencing the 12th day
of December, 1899. We decide that said William Goebel has
received the highest number of legal votes, and is adjudged to
be the person elected to said office of Governor for the term
prescribed by law."
The report was not accompanied either by any abstract of
the evidence or any recital of the grounds upon which it based
the statement that Goebel had received the highest number of
legal votes. Nor was the evidence itself transmitted to the
Legislature-not a line nor a word of it. According to the uncontradicted statement made by counsel at the argument, the
proof made nearly two thousand pages of typewriting.

The

report simply followed the words of the statute and stated that
Goebel had received "the highest number of legal votes," giving no basis, not the slightest, upon which the Legislature could
determine the correctness of that statement.
Immediately after the Bdard's report reached the body claiming to be the lawful Legislature of the State, that body--of
course without reading the evidence, or causing it to be read,
for it had no evidence before it-approved the repQrt, and declare Goebel to have been legally elected Governor. Upon
that action alone the present suit was based, and by the judgment of the highest court of Kentucky such action was declared
to be conclusive, upon the judiciary.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
MR.JUSTICE HARLAN, dissenting.

The first question to be considered is whether Taylor has
been denied by the judgment of the state court any right or
privilege secured to him by the Constitution of the United
States. The appellant invokes the clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment declaring that "no State shall deprive any person
of life, liberty or property, without due process of law." There
ought not, at this day, to be any doubt as to the objects which
were intended to be 'attained by the requirement of due process
of law. "They were intended," this court has said, "to secure
the individual from the arbitrary exercise of the powers of
government, unrestrained by the established principles of private right and distributive justice." .Bank v. Okely, 4 Wheat.
244.
The majority of this court decide that an office held under
the authority of a State cannot in any case be deemed property
within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment, and hence,
it is now adjudged, the action of a state Legislature or state
tribunal depriving one of a state office-under whatever circumstances or by whatever mode that result is accomplishedcannot be regarded as inconsistent with the Constitution of the
United States. Upon that ground the court declines to take
jurisdiction of this writ of error. If the court bad dismissed
the writ or affirmed the judgment upon the ground that there
had been no violation of the principles constituting due process
of law, its action would not have been followed by the evil results which, I think, must inevitably follow from the decision
now rendered.
Let us see whether, in dismissing the writ of error for want
of jurisdiction, the majority have not departed from the rulings
of this court in former cases. This question, it cannot be
doubted, is one of serious moment. But what was said by
Chief Justice Marshall, speaking for this court in Cohens v.
Virginia, 6 Wheat. 404, may well be repeated: "It is most
true that this court will not take jurisdiction if it should not;
but it is equally true that it -must take jurisdiction, if it should.
The judiciary cannot, as the legislature may, avoid a measure
because it approaches the confines of -the Constitution. We
may not pass it by because it is doubtful. With whatever

TAYLOR AND MARSHALL v, BECKHAM (NO. 1). 593
MR.JUSTICE HARLAw, dissenting.

doubts, with whatever difficulties, a -case may be attended, we
must decide it if it be brought before us. We have no more
right to decline the exercise of jurisdiction if*it is given than to
usurp that which is not given. The one or the other would be
treason to the Constitution. Questions may occur which we
would gladly avoid ; but we cannot avoid them."
The first case in this court relating to this subject is Kennard v. Louisiana, 92 U. S. 480. That was a writ of error
brought by Kennard to review the final judgment of the Supreme Court of Louisiana declaring that he was not a member
of that court. "The case," the report states, "was then
brought here upon the ground that the State of Louisiana acting under the law, through her judiciary, had. deprived Kennard of his office without due process of law, in violation of
that provision of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the 'United States which prohibits any State from depriving any person of life, liberty or property, without due
process of law." Looking also into the printed arguments filed
in that case, on behalf ot the respective parties, I find that the
attorney for the plaintiff in error, a lawyer of distinction, insisted that the sole question presented for determination by,
this court was whether the final judgment of the state court
deprived Kennard of his office in violation of the above clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment. And this view was not controverted by the attorney for the defendant, also, an able lawyer. The latter contended that the Fourteenth Amendment
had no application because in what was done no departure
from the principles of due process of law had occurred. The
opinion of Chief Justice Waite delivering the judgment of this
court thus opens: "The sole question presented for our consideration in this case, as stated by the counsel for the plaintiff in
error, is, whether the State of Louisiana,. acting under the statute of January 15, 1873, through her judiciary, has deprived
Kennard of his office without due process of law." Of course,
this court had no jurisdiction to inquire whether there had
been due process of law in the proceedings in the state court,
unless the office in dispute or the right to hold it .was property
within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment, or unless
VOL. cLxxvIII-38

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, dissenting.

Kennard's liberty was involved in his holding and discharging
the duties of the office to which, as he insisted, he had been
lawfully elected. But this court took jurisdiction of the case
and affirmed the judgment of the Supreme Court of Louisiana
upon the ground that the requirement in the Fourteenth
Amendment of due process of law had not been violated. If,
in the judgment of this court, as constituted when the Kennard
case was decided, an office held under the authority of a State
was not "property" within the meaning of the Fourteenth
Amendment, the case would have been disposed of upon the
ground that no Federal right had been or could have been
violated, and the court would not have entered upon the inquiry as to what, under the Fourteenth Amendment, constituted due process of law in a case of which-according to the
principles this day announced-it had no jurisdiction.
In Foster v. Kansas, 112 U. S. 201-which was a writ of error to review the final judgment of the Supreme Court of Kansas-the sole issue was as to the right of Foster to hold the office
of county attorney. The defendant in error moved to dismiss
the writ for want of jurisdiction in this court, and accompanied
the motion with a motion to affirm. This court refused to dismiss the case, and referring to .Kennard v. Louisiana, affirmed
the judgment upon the ground that there had been, in its opinion, no departure from due process of law in the proceedings to
remove Foster. It never occurred to the court, nor to any attorney in the case, that the Fourteenth Amendment did not
embrace the case of a state office from.which the incumbent
was removed without due process of law. If such an office
was not deemed property within the meaning of that Amendment, that was an end of the case here. But this court took
jurisdiction and disposed of the case upon the ground that the
requirement in the Federal Constitution of due process of law
had been observed.
In Boyd v. Thayer, 143 U. S. 135, which came here upon
writ of error to review the final judgment of the Supreme
Court of Nebraska ousting Boyd from the office of Governor,
and putting Thayer into that position, all the Justices, except
Mtr. Justice Field, concurred in holding that this court had

TAYLOR AND MARSHALL v. BECKHA.UI (NO. 1). '595
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN,

dissenting.

jurisdiction of the case. In his dissenting opinion Mr. Justice
Field observed: "I do not think this court had any jurisdiction
to determine a disputed question as to the right to the governorship of a State, however that question may be dedided by its
authorities." He continued, quoting the language of Mr. Justice Nelson in another case: "' The former [General Government] in its appropriate sphere is supreme; but the States
within the limits of their powers not granted, or, in the language
of the Tenth Amendment "reserved," are as independent of the
General Government as that Government within its sphere is
independent of the States. The Collector v. Day, 11 Wall. 113,
124.' In no respect is this independence of the States more
marked, or more essential to their peace and tranquillity, than
in their absolute power to prescribe the qualifications of all their
state officers, from their chief magistrate to the lowest official
employed in the administration of their local government; to
determine the matter of their election, whether by open or secret ballot, and whether by local bodies or by general suffrage;
the tenure by which they shall hold their respective offices; the
grounds on which their election may be contested, the tribunals
before which such contest shall be made, the manner in which
i't shall be conducted; and the effect to be given to the decision
rendered. With none of these things can the Government of
the United States interfere. In all these particulars the States,
to use the language of Mr. Justice Nelson, are as independent
of the General Government as that Government within its
sphere is independent of the States. Its power of interference
with the administration of the affairs of the State and the officers through whom they are conducted extends only so far as
may be necessary to secure to it a republican form of government, and protect it against invasion, and also against domestic
violence on the application of its legislature, or of its executivi
when that body cannot be convened. Const. Art. IV, see. 4.
Except as required for these purposes, it can no more interfere
with the qualifications, election and installation of the state
officers than a foreign government. And all attempts at interference with them in those respects by the executive, legislative
or judicial departments of the General Government are in my

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
MR.JUSTICE HARLAx, dissenting.

judgment so many invasions upon the reserved rights of the
States and assaults upon their constitutional autonomy. No
clause of the Constitution can be nained which in any respect
gives countenance to such invasion. The fact that one of the
qualifications prescribed by the State for its officers can only be
ascertained and established by considering the provisions of a
law of the United Stat~s in no respect authorizes an interference by the General Government with the state action."
This court had a different view of these questions, and, taking jurisdiction, considered the merits of the case, so far as it
involved Federal questions, and rendered a judgment which, by
its necessary operation, put into the offide of Governor of Nebraska one whom the highest court of that State had adjudged
not to be the lawful incumbent.
The latest case involving the present question is Filson v.
North Carolina,169 U. S.586. That was an action in the nature of quo warrantoto test the title to a state office. Judgment was rendered for the plaintiff. The defendant claimed
that the state statute and the action taken under it not only deprived him of his office without due process of law, but denied
to him the equal protection of the laws, both in violation of the
Fourteenth Amendment.- In this court a motion to dismiss the
writ of error was sustained upon the ground that, looking at
what occurred in the state court, there was "no fair color for
claiming that his (the plaintiff's) rights under the Federal Constitution have been violated, either by depriving him of his
property without due process of law or by denying Mim the
equal protection of the laws." After observing that this court
would be very reluctant to decide that we had jurisdiction in
the case presented and could supervise and review the political
administration of a state government by its own officials and
through its own courts, great care was taken to say: "The
jurisdiction of this court would only exist in case there had
been, by reason of the statute and the proceedings under it,
such a plain and substantial departure from the fundamental
principles upon which our Government is based that it could
with truth and propriety be said that if the judgment were
suffered to remain, the party aggrieved would be deprived of

TAYLOR AND MARSHALL v. BECKHAM (NO. 1). 597
MR.JUSTICE HARLN , dissenting.

his life, liberty or property in violation of the provisions of the
Federal Constitution." Here, as I think, is a distinct declaration that this court has jurisdiction to review the final judgment of a state court, involving the title to a state office, where
there has been a plain and substantial departure from the principles that underlie the requirement of due process of law.
The opinion in Wilsown v. Htorl& Gar6olina shows a deliberate
consideration of the scope of the Fourteenth Amendment, and
a refusal to hold, as is now held, that a contest about a state
office could not, under any circumstances, involve rights secured
by that Amendment. We there substantially declared that the
constitutional requirement of due process of law could be enforced by this court where, in depriving a party of a state office,
there had been a plain and substantial departure from the fundamental principles upon which our Government is based.
It thus appears that in four cases, heretofore decided, this
court has proceeded upon the ground that to deprive one without due process of law of an office created under the laws of a
State, presented a case under the Fourteenth Amendment to
the Constitution of the United States of which we could take
cognizance and inquire whether there had been due process of
law.
Nothing to the contrary was decided in the Sawyer case,
124 U. S. 8. That case contains no suggestion that an office
is not property. The only point there in judgment was that
a court of equity could not control the appointment or removal
of public officers. The court said: "The reasons which preclude a court of equity from interfering with the appointment
or removal of public officers of the government from which the
.court derives its authority apply with increased force when the
court is a court of the United States and the officers in question are officers of a State." But care was taken further to
say: "If aLperson claiming to be such officer is, by the judgment of a court of the State, either in appellate proceedings,
or upon a mandamus or quo w rranto, denied any right-secured
to him by the Constitution df the United States, he can obtain relief by a writ of error from this court." So that the
Sawyer case directly supports the proposition that the judg-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
]SIR. JUSTICE HARLAN, dissenting.

ment of thehighest court of a State depriving one of a state
office may be reexamined here, if the incumbent has specially
claimed that he has been deprived of it without due process of
law. That the point adjudged in Sawyer's case was as I have
stated is seen from the opinion in White v. Bervy, 171 U. S.
199, in which it was said: "But the court in its opinion in that
case observed that under the Constitution and laws of the
United States the distinction between law and equity, as existing in England at the time of the separation of the two
countries, had been maintained although both jurisdictions
were in the same courts, and held that a court of equity had
no jurisdiction over the appointment and removal of public
officers, and that to sustain a bill in equity to restrain or relieve against proceedings for the removal of public officers
would invade the domain of the courts of common law, or of
the executive and administrative departments of the Government."

Notwithtanding the above adjudications, the decision to-day
is that this court has no jurisdiction, under any circumstances,
to inquire whether a citizen has been deprived, without due
process of law, -of an office held by him under the constitution
and laws of his State. If the contest between the one holding
the office and the person seeking to hold it is determinable by
the Legislature in a prescribed mode, this court, it appears,
cannot inquire whether that mode was pursued nor interfere
for the protection of the incumbent, even where the final action
of the Legislature was confessedly capricious and arbitrary, inconsistent with the fundamental doctrines upon which our
Government is based and the recognized principles that belong
to due process of law, and not resting, in any degree, on evidence. If the Kentucky Legislature had wholly disregarded
the mode prescribed by the statutes of that Commonwealth,
and without appointing a Board of Contest composed of its
own members, had, by joint resolution simply-without any
evidence whatever or without notice to Taylor and without
giving him an opportunity to be l:eard-declared Goebel to be
Governor, this court, as we are informed by the decision just
rendered, would be without jurisdiction to protect the incum-

TAYLOR AND MARSHALL v. BECKHAM (NO. 1). 599
MR. JUSTICP 11ARLAw, dissenting.

bent, for the reason, as is now adjudged, that the office in dispute is not "property" within the meaning of the Fourteenth
Amendment. So that while we may inquire whether a citizen's land, worth a hundred dollars, or his mules, 'have been
taken from him by the legislative or judicial authorities of his
State without due process of law, we may not, inquire whether
the legislative or judicial authorities of a State have, without
due process of law, ousted one lawfully elected and holding the
office of Governor for a fixed term, with a salary payable at
stated times, and put into his place one whom the people had
said should not exercise the authority appertaining to that
high position. It was long ago adjudged by the Court of Appeals of Kentucky that an office was "a valuable right and interest." Page v. Hlardin, 8 B. Iron. 672. In Commonwealth
v. Jone8, 10 Bush, 735, the same court, referring to the provision in the constitution of Kentucky depriving any person
who fought a duel of the right to hold an office, said: "It, in
effect, dispossesses him of a right which the Supreme Court of
the United States terms inalienable (4 Wall. 321), takes from.
him rights, privileges and immunities to which he was theretofore entitled, and strips him of one of the most valuable attributes of citizenship. The word 'deprived' is used in this
section in the same sense in which it is used in section 12 of
the Bill of Rights and in the Fifth Article of Amendment to
the Federal Constitution."
When the Fourteenth Amendment forbade any State from
depriving any person of life, liberty or property without due
process of law, I had supposed that the intention of the People
of the United States was to prevent the deprivation of- any
legal right in violation of the fundamental guarantees inhering
in due process of law. The prohibitions of that amendment,
as we have often said, apply to all the instrumentalities of the
State, to its legislative, executfve and judicial authorities; and
therefore it has become a settled doctrine in the constitutional
jurisprudence of this country that "whoever by virtue of publie position under a state government deprives another of property, life or liberty without due process of law, or denies or
takes away the eiqual protection of the laws, violates tho con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
MR.JUSTICE HARLAN, dissenting.

stitutional inhibition; and as he acts in the name and for the
State, and is clothed with the State's power, his act is that of
the State. This must be so, or, as we have often said, the constitutional prohibition has no meaning, and the State has clothed
one of its agents with power to annul or evade it." Exparte
Virginia, 100 U. S. 339; Chicago, Burlington c. Railroad

v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226; Scott v. felNeal, 154: U. S. 34.
Alluding to a contention that the party-a railroad companywhich invoked the Fourteenth Amendment for the protection
of its property, had the benefit of due process of law in the
proceedings against it, because it had due notice of those proceedings and was admitted to appear and make defence, this
court has also said: "But a state may not, by any of its agencies, disregard the prohibitions of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Its judicial authorities may keep within the letter of the statute
prescribing forms of procedure in its courts and give the parties
interested the fullest opportunity to be heard, and yet it might
be that its final action would be inconsistent with that amendment. In determining what is due process of law regard must
be had to substance and not to form." Chicago, Burlington
c. Railroadv. Chicago,above cited. Again, in another case:
"Though the law itself be fair on its face and impartial in appearance, yet if it is applied and administe*red by public authority
with an evil eye and unequal hand

.

.

.

it is still within

the prohibition of the Constitution." Yiek Wo v. Hojlkins,
118 U. S. 373. See also Henderson v. .Aayor, 92 U. S.259;
Chy Lung v. Freeman, 92 U. S. 275; Neal v. Delaware, 103
U. S. 370; Soon v. Crowley, 113 U. S.703.
It is said that the courts cannot, in any case, go behind the
final action of the legislature to ascertain whether that which
was done was consistent with rights claimed under the Federal
Constitution. If this be true then it is in the power of the
state legislature to override the supreme law of the land. As
long ago as Davidson v. United States, 96 U. S.97, 102, this
court, speaking by Mr. Justice Miller, said: "Can a State make
anything due process of law which, by its own legislation, it
chooses to declare such? To affirm this is to hold that the
prohibition to the States is of no avail, or has no application

TAYLOR AND MARSHALL v. BECKHAM (NO. 1). 601
MR.JUSTICE HARLAN, dissenting.

where the invasion of private rights is effected under the forms
of state legislation." More recently we have said: "The idea
that any legislature, state or Federal, can conclusively determine for the people and for the courts that what it enacts in.
the form of law, or what it authorizes its agents to do, is consistent with the fundamental law, is in opposition to the theory
of our institutions. The duty rests upon all courts, Federal'
and state; when their jurisdiction is properly invoked, to see
to it that no right secured by the supreme law of the land is
impaired or destroyed by- legislation. The function and duty
of the judiciary distinguishes the American system from all
other systerbs of government. The perpetuity of our institutions and the liberty which is enjoyed under them depend, in
no small degree, upon the power given the judiciary to declare
null and void all legislation that is clearly repugnant to the
supreme law of the land." Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466.
I had supposed that the principles announced in the cases
above cited were firmly established in the jurisprudence of this
cburt, and that, if applied, they would serve to protect every
right that could be brought within judicial cognizance against
deprivation in violation of due process of law.
It seems however-if I do not misapprehend the scope of
the decision now rendered-that under our system of government the right of a person to exercise a state office to which he
has been lawfully chosen by popular vote may, so far as the
Constitution of the United States is concerned, be taken from
him by the arbitrary action of a state legislature, in utter disregard of the principle that Anglo-Saxon freemen have for centuries deemed to be essential in the requirement of due process
of law-a principle reaffirmed in the Kentucky Bill of Rights,
which declares that "absolute and arbitrary power over the
lives, liberty and property of freemen exists nowhere in a Republic, not even in the largest majority." § 2. I cannot assent
to the interpretation now given to the Fourteenth A mendment.
Let us look at the question from another standpoint. The
requirement of due process of law is applicable to the United
States as well as to the States; for the Fifth Amendmentwhich all agree is a limitation on the authority of Federal agen-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
MR.JUSTICE HARLAx, dissenting.

cies-declares that "no person shall
.
be deprived of
life, liberty or property without due process of law." If Congress by some enactment should attempt in violation of due
process of law, to deprive one of an office held by him under
the United States, will not the decision this day rendered compel this court to declare that such office is not property within
the meaning of the Fifth Amendment, and therefore the incumbent would be without, remedy unless he could invoke the protection of some other clause of the Constitution than the one in
the Amendment relating to due process of law? Or, would
the court hold that while a Federal office is property within
the meaning of the clause in the Fifth Amendment declaring
that "no person shall

.

.

.

be deprived of life, liberty or

property without due process of law," a state office is not property within the meaning of the clause in the Fourteenth Amendment declaring, "nor shall any State deprive any person of
life, liberty or property without due process of law? " Can it
be that Congress may not deprive one of a Federal office without due process of law, but that a State may deprive one of a
state office without due process of law?
I stand by the former rulings of this court in the cases above
cited. I am of opinion that, equally with tangible property
that may be bought and sold in the market, an office-certainly
one established by the constitution of a State, to which office a
salary is attached, and which cannot be abolished at the will of
the legislature-is, in the highest sense, property of which the
incumbent cannot be deprived arbitrarily in disregard of due
process of law; that is, as this court said in Eennard v. Luaisiana,in disregard of the "rules and forms which have been established for the protection of private rights." Apart from
every other consideration, the right to receive and enjoy the
salary attached to such an office is a right of property. And a
right of property should be deemed property, unless we mean
to play with words, and regard form rather than substance.
I go farther. The liberty of which the Fourteenth Amendment forbids a State from depriving any one without due process
of law is something more than freedom from the enslavement
-of the body or from physical restraint. In my judgment the

TAYLOR AND MARSHALL v. BECKHAM (NO. 1).

603

MR.JUSTICE H:ARLAN, dissenting.

words "life, liberty .orproperty" in the Fourteenth Amendment should be interpreted as embracing every right that may
be brought within judicial cognizance, and therefore no right
of that kind can be taken in violation of "due process of law."
In Allgeyer v. Louisiana,165 U. S. 578, 589, this court unanimously held that the liberty mentioned in the Fourteenth
Amendment "means not only the right of the citizen 'to be free
from the mere physical restraint of his person, as by incarceration, but the term is deemed to embrace the right to be free
in the enjoyment of all his faculties; to be free to use them in
all lawful ways; to live and work where he will; to earn his
livelihood by any lawful calling; to pursue any livelihood or
avocation, and for that purpose to enter into all contracts which
may be proper, necessary and essential to his carrying out to a
successful conclusion the purposes above mentioned."
Judge Cooley, speaking for the Supreme Court of Michigan
in People v. Kurlburt, 24: Mich. 44, after observing that some
things were too plain to be written, said: "Mr. Justice Story
has well shown that constitutional freedom means something
more than liberty permitted; it consists in the civil and political
rights which are absolutely guaranteed, assured and guarded;
in one's liberties as a man and a citizen-his right to vote, his
9'ight to hold office, his right to worship God according to the
dictates of his conscience, his equality with all others who are
his fellow citizens; all these guarded and protected and not
held at the mercy and discretion of any one man or any popular majority. Story, Miscellaneous Writings, 620. If these are
not now the absolute rights of the people of Michigan, they may
be allowed more liberty of action and more privileges, but they
are little nearer to constitutional freedom than Europe was
when an imperial city sent out consuls to govern it."
The doctrine that liberty means something more than freedom from physical restraint is well illustrated in Minor v. -Happersett, 21 Wall. 162, in which it was said that although the
right of suffrage comes from the State, yet when granted it will
be protected, and he "who has it can only be deprived of it by
due process of law."
What more directly involves the liberty of the citizen than

OCTOBER TERIM, 1899.
MR.JUSTICE HARLAN,dissenting.

to be able to enter upon the discharge of the duties of an office
to which he has been lawfully elected by his fellow citizens?
What more certainly infringes upon his liberty than for the
Legislature of the State, by merely arbitrary action, in violation of the rules and forms required by due process of law, to
take from him the right to discharge the public duties imposed
upon him by his fellow citizens in accordance with law? Can
it be that the right to pursue a lawful calling is a part of one's
liberty secured by the Fourteenth Amendment against illegal
deprivation; and yet the right to exercise an office to which
one has been elected and into which he has been lawfully inducted is no part of the incumbent's liberty, and may be disregarded by the mere edict of a legislative body, sitting under a
constitution which declares that absolute, arbitrary power exists
nowhere in a republic? Can it be that the right to vote, once
given, cannot under the Fourteenth Amendment be taken away
except by due process of law - and it was so decided in 3inor
v. H1appersett, above cited - and yet that the right of the person voted for to hold and exercise the functions of the office to
which he was elected can, without violating that Amendment,
be taken away without-due process of law? Does -the liberty
of an American embrace his right to vote without discrimination against him on account of race, color or previous condition
of servitude, and yet not embrace his right to serve ina position
of public trust to which he has been lawfully called by his fellow citizens who voted for him? The liberty of which I am
speaking is .that which exists, and which can exist, only under
a republican form of government. "The United States," the
supreme law of the land declares, "shall guarantee to every
State in the Union a republican form of- government." And
"the distinguishing feature of that form," this court has said,
"is the right of the people to choose their own officers for governmental administration, and pass their own laws in virtue of
the legislative powers reposed in representative bodies, whose
legitimate acts may be said to be those of the people themselves."
-Duncanv. iXaFall, 139 U. S.461. But of what value is that
right if the person selected by the people at the polls for an
office provided for by the constitution, and holding a certificate

TAYLOR AND MARSHALL v. BECKHAM (NO. 1). 605
MR. JUSTICE IARLAw, dissenting.

of election, may be deprived of that office by the arbitrary action
of the Legislature proceeding altogether without evidence?
I grant that it is competent for a State to provide for the
determination of contested election cases by the Legislature.
All that I now seek to maintain is the proposition that when a
state legislature deals with a matter within its jurisdiction,
and which involves the life', liberty or property of the citizen,
it cannot ignore the requirement of due process of law. What
due process of law may require in particular cases may not be
applicable in other cases. The essential principle is that the
State shall not by any of its agencies destroy or impair any
right appertaining to life, liberty or property in violation of
the principles upon which the requirement of due process of
law rests. That requirement is "a restraint on the legislative
as well as on the executive and judicial powers of the governfnnt." .7urrayv. Land & -Imp. Co., 18 How. 272, 276; Scott
v. .McNeal,above cited; Chicago, Burlington &c. 1Rai.'oad v.
Chicago, above cited. "That government can scarcely be
deemed free," this court has said, "where the rights of property are left solely dependent upon the will of a legislative
body without restraint." Wilkinson v. Leland, 2 Pet. 627.
It is to be regretted that it should be deemed necessary in a
case like this to depart from the principles heretofore announced
and acted upon by this court.
Looking into the record before us, I find such action taken
by the body claiming to be organized as the lawful Legislature
of Kentucky as was discreditable in the last degree and unworthy of the free people whom it professed to represent. The
statute required the Board of Contest to give "true judgment"
on the case, "according to the evidence." And when the statute further declared that the decision of the Board should be
reported to the two Houses "for the future action of the General Assembly," that such decision should not be "final and
conclusive," and that the General Assembly should determine
the contest, it meant, of course, that such determination should
rest upon the issues made by the parties and upon the evidence
adduced before the Board of Contest. If the evidence had
been before the Legislature it would have been physically im-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
AIR. JUSTICE HARLAN, dissenting.

possible to have examined it; for, as we have seen, its final

action was taken immediately after the Board of Contest had
reported its decision. But, as heretofore stated, the evidence,
before the Board was not transmitted to the Legislature, nor
were the grounds upon which the Board proceeded disclosed.
Yet the body which assumed to determine who had been elected
Governor, without having before it one particle of the proof
taken upon the issues made by the notice of contest, "adjudged"
that Goebel had been legally elected Governor of Kentucky.
No such farce under the guise of formal proceedings was ever
enacted in the presence of a free people who take pride in the
fact that our American Governments are governments of laws
and not of men. That which was done was not equivalent to
a decision or judgment or determination by the Legislature of
a matter committed to it by law. It should be regarded merely
as an exercise of arbitrary power by a given number of men
who defied the law. It is not a pleasant thing to say--but
after a thorough examination of the record a sense of duty constrains me to say-that the declaration by that body of men
that Goebel was legally elected ought not to be respected in
any court as a determination of the question in issue, but should
be regarded only as action taken outside of law, in utter contempt of the constitutional rights of freemen to select their
rulers. They had nojurisdictionto determine the contest for
Governor excel)t u2pon tite evidence introduced before the Board
of Contest, and in the absence of such evidence they were without authority to declare anything except that Taylor's right to
the office of Governor, based upon the certificate awarded him,
had not been impaired. Their determination of the contest
without having the evidence before them, could have no greater
effect in law than if the issue had been determined simply by
a joint resolution, without taking proof or without notifying
or hearing the parties interested.
It is to be also said that a fair interpretation of the record
leads irresistibly to the conclusion that the body of men referred
to were wholly indifferent as to the nature of the evidence
adduced before the Board of Contest, and that there was a
fixed purpose on their part, whatever the facts might be, to

TAYLOR AND MARSHALL v. BECKIAM (NO. 1). 607
MR. JUSTIOE HARLAN, dissenting.

put Goebel into office and to oust Taylor. Under the evidence
in the case no result favorable to Goebel could have been reached
on any ground upon which the Board of Contest or the Legislature had jurisdiction to act. The Constitution of Kentucky,
as we have seen, declares that "the person having the highest
number of votes shall be Governor." And the statute provides
that the person returned having received the highest number of
legal votes given "shall be adjudged to be the person elected
and entitled to the office." With the constitution and the
statutes of the State before him when preparing his notice to
Taylor of contest, Goebel it is true did claim in very general
terms that he was legally and rightfully elected; but he took
care not to say-there is reason to believe that le purposely
avoided saying-that he had received the highest number of
legal votes cast for Governor. The evidence renders it clear
that the declaration thitt he had received the highest number
of legal votes cast was in total disregard of the facts-t declaration as extravagant as one adjudging that white was black,
or that black was white. But such a declaration made by the
body to which the Board of Contest reported should not surprise any one when it is remembered that it came from those
who did not have before them any of the proofs taken in the case
'Ind were willing to act without proof. Those who composed
that body seemed to have shut their eyes against the proof for
fear that it would compel them to respect the popular will as
expressed at the polls. Indignant, as naturally they were and
should have been, at the assassination of their leader, they proceeded in defiance of all the forms of law, and in contempt of
the principles upon which free governments rest, to avenge that
terrible crime by committing another crime, namely, the destruction by arbitrary methods, of the. right of the people to
choos their Chief Magistrate. The former crime, if the offender
be discovered, can be punished as directed by law. The latter
should not be rewarded by a declaration of the inability of the
judiciary to protect public and private rights, and thereby the
rights of voters, against the wilful, arbitrary action of a legislative tribunal which, we nmust assume from tho record, deliberately acted upon a contested election case involving the rights

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
M

.JUSTIOE HA.RLAx, dissenting.

of the people and of their chosen representative in the office of
Governor without looking into the evidence upon which alone
any lawful determination of the case could be made. The
assassination of an individual demands the severest punishment
which it is competent for human laws in a free land to prescribe.
But the overturning of the public will, as expressed at the ballot
box, without evidence or against evidence, in.order to accomplish partisan ends, is a crime against free government, and
deserves the execration of all lovers of liberty. Judge Burnam,
speaking for himself and Judge Guffy in the Court of Appeals
of Kentucky, although compelled, in his view of the law, to
hold the action of the Legislature to be conclusive, said: "It is
hard to imagine a more flagrant and partisan disregard of the
modes of procedure which should govern a judicial tribunal in
the determination of a great and important issue than is made
manifest by the facts alleged and relied on by the contestees,
and admitted by the demurrer filed in the action to be true,
and I am firmly convinced, both from thiese admitted facts and
from knowledge of the current history of these transactions,
that the General Assembly, in the heat of anger, engendered
by the intense partisan excitement which was at the time prevailing, have done two faithful, conscientious and able public
servants an irreparable injury in depriving them of the offices
to which they were elected by the people of this Commonwealth, and a still greater wrong has been done a large majority
of the electors of this Commonwealth, who voted under difficult circumstances to elect these gentlemen to act as their servants in the discharge of the duties of these great offices."

I

cannot believe that the judiciary is helpless in the presence of
such a crime. The person elected, as well as the people who
elected him, have rights that the courts may protect. To say
that in such an emergency the judiciary cannot interfere is to
subordinate right to mere poVer, and to recognize the Legislature of a State as above the supreme law of the land. The constitution of Kentucky expressly forbids the exercise of absolute
and arbitrary power over the lives, liberty or property of freemen. And that principle is at the very foundation of the Govermient of the Union. Indeed, to sustain that principle our

TAYLOR AND MARSHALL v. BECKHAM (NO. 1). 609
MR. JUSTICE HARLAw, dissenting.

fathers waged the war for independence and established the
Constitution of the United States. Yet by the decision this
day rendered, no redress can be had in the courts when a legislative body, or one recognized as such by the courts, without
due process of law, by the exercise of absolute, arbitrary power,
and without evidence, takes an office having a fixed salary
attached thereto from one who has been lawfully elected to such
office by the voters of the State at a regular election. The
doctrine of legislative absolutism is foreign to free government
as it exists in this country. The cornerstone of our republican
institutions is the principle that the powers of government shall,
in all vital particulars, be distributed among three separate coordinate departments, legislative, executive and judicial. And
liberty regulated by law cannot be permanently secured against
the assaults of power or the tyranny of a majority, if the judiciary must be silent when rights existing independently of
human sanction, or acquired under the law, are at the niercy of
legislative action taken in violation of due process of law.
Other grounds are disclosed by the record which support
the general proposition that the declaration by the body referred
to that Goebel received the highest number of legal votes cast
and was entitled to the office of Governor ought not to be
regarded as valid, much less conclusive, upon the courts. But
as those grounds have not been discussed by this court, and as
it declines to determine the case upon the merits as disclosed
by the evidence, I will not extend this opinion by commenting
on them.
What has been said in this opinion as to the contest for Governor applies to the contest for Lieutenant Governor.
I am of opinion that the writ of error should not have been
dismissed, and that the court should, have adjudged that the
decree below took from Taylor and Marshall rights protected
by the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the
United States.
VOL. cLxxvI-39

