OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

NORTH AMERICAN TRANSPORTATION & TRADING
COMPANY v. MORRISON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF VASHINGTON.
No. 203. Submitted March 20,1900.-Decided May 21, 1900.

Where a plaintiff asserts, as his cause of action, a claim which he cannot
be legally permitted to sustain by evidence, a mere ad dainnum clause
will not confer jurisdidtion on the Circuit Court, but the court on motion
or demurrer, or of its own motion, may dismiss the suit
In the circumstances disclosed by the plaintiff's declaration, and in the
certificates of the trial judge, the defendant company, though liable in a
court of competent jurisdiction for the other claims asserted, cannot be
held for the amount of wages or profits which the plaintiff suggests he
might have earned had he reached Dawson City.

THIS was an action originally brought in December, 1897, in
the Superior Court of the State of Washingtonfor King County,
by Donald Morrison against the North American Transportation and Trading Company, and subsequently, on petition of
the defendant company, removed to the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Washington. To the declaration, containing several counts, the defendant demurred. The
demurrer was overruled, and the cause was tried before the
District Judge and a jury. After verdict and judgment in
favor of the plaintiff, the District Judge certified the f6llowing
statement of facts and questions of jurisdiction to this court:
"I, C. H. Hanford, District Judge, presiding in the Circuit
Court aforesaid, and the judge before' whom the above-entitled
cause was tried, do now, on the 29th day of December, 1898,
being the December term, at which the judgment and verdict
were entered herein, certify as follows:
"Morrison, the plaintiff, alleging himself to be a citizen and
resident of the State of Minnesota, began this action in the
Superior Court of King County, State of Washington, against
the defendant, alleging it to be a corporation organized and ex-

NORTH AMERICAN &c. CO. v. MORRISON.
Statement of the Case.

isting under the laws of the State of Illinois, and engaged in
business in the State of Washington. The suit was upon eight
causes of action, the first on plaintiff's own account, the other
on account of seven alleged assignors of plaintiff. The citizenship of these assignors was nowhere alleged.
"Defendant removed the case to this court on the ground of
diversity of citizenship between it and plaintiff Morrison, and
the involving of a sum exceeding two thousand dollars, exclusive of interest and costs. After removal defendant demurred
to each cause of action in the complaint as not sufficient to constitute a cause of action, and as to the last seven causes of
action on the additional ground that the court had no jurisdiction to hear it, and this was dverruled, with exception to defendant. Issue was then joined, and, after two trials, judgment
was entered as now complained of in error in the sum of
$2119.50. After the verdict and before judgment defendant
moved to dismiss or remand the whole cause and each cause of
action on the ground that as to -the first cause of action it did
not involve two thousand dollars, exclusive of interest and
costs, and as to the second and-each subsequent cause of action
-that is to say, as to the assigned causes of action-that each
of these did not involve two thousand dollars, exclusive of interest and costs, and because, also, it did not appear that pr 6 per
diversity of citizenship existed at the time of the commencement of the action, or at the time of its removal, between the
assignors of plaintiff and defendant so as to confer jurisdiction
upon the Federal court; which said motion to dismiss and remand was denied, with exception to defendant.
"The original complaint shoWs that the aggregate sum sued
for by Morrison was $18,173.50, divided, as already stated, into
eigbt causes of action. The suit was upon eight contracts of
carriage, between defendant as a carrier and plaintiff and his
seven assignors, from Seattle to Dawson City, by way of St. Michaels and the Yukon River, which contracts were alleged to
have been broken by the carrier by failure and refusal to transport the passengers farther than Fort Yukon on the river.
"The first cause of action - that of plaintiff himself - alleged

himself to be a citizen and a resident of Minnesota and defend-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

ant a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the
State of Illinois. The contract was alleged to have been made
at Seattle on the 30th day of July, 1897, and the agreed date
of the delivery of the plaintiff at Dawson by the carrier was
alleged to be September 15, 1897, and this suit was brought on
the 17th day of November, 1897. On the breach of the contract at Fort Yukon, plaintiff alleged himself compelled to return to Seattle. The damages claimed by him were as follows:
(a) The price of his ticket from Seattle to Dawson City, $200.00;
(b) $72.50, returning to Seattle after the breach of contract at
Fort Yukon; (c) expense of one dollar a day and loss of time
at three dollars a day at Seattle since his return there, the 18th
day of October, 1897; (d) three dollars a day from the 30th
day of July, 1897, which~i6 could have earned if he had not
started on the journey at all; (e) fifteen dollars a day which he
could have earned for a year at Dawson after the 15th day of
September, 1897; (V) lost baggage, $29.50; the total prayer of
this cause of action being $2301.75.
"The second and subsequent causes of action, being the assigned causes, arose on exactly similar contracts of carriage.
The citizenship of the respective assignors was not averred.
The damages claimed were exactly the same as those claimed
by plaintiff himself, excepting that none of the assignors claimed
the item of lost baggage, and that the item of cost in returning
from Fort Yukon to Seattle was as low as $61.50 in some instances, and as high as $103.25 in others. The lowest sum
claimed by any of the assignors as his total damage was $2261.25,
and the highest claimed, was $2303.25.
"1Neither in the original nor the assigned causes of action was
it alleged that any of these passengers had ever lived in Dawson before, had any previous engagement or business there, or
any promise of employment, the allegation in each cause of action as to the passenger's damage in this respect being that ' he
could have obtained employment and engaged in business by
him competent to perform and transact at or about said Dawson City, and thereby secured wages and profits at the rate of
fifteen dollars per day continuously from September 15, 1897,
for the period of the year thence next ensuing,' and that 'he

NORTH AMERICAN &c. CO. v. MORRISON.

Opinion of the Court.

has wholly lost all of said employment and time, and all of said
wages and profits, to his damage in the sum of $2000.' It was
not alleged what, if any, occupation either plaintiff or any of
his assignors had before departure on the journey, nor was it
alleged what occupation was expected at -the point of destination, or that any expected occupation was communicated to the
defendant.
"Now, therefore, I do certify to the Supreme Court the following question of jurisdiction, as"follows:
"Whether the motions to dismiss and to remand should have
been granted because at the time of removal to this court the
cause was one of which this court could not take jurisdictionthat is to say, whether "(a) In each of the causes of action the sum or value of the
matter actually in dispute as shown in the pleadings was less
than two thousand dollars, exclusive of interest and costs, and
a controversy was involved substantially within the jurisdiction
of this court; and whether"(b) If the foregoing be answered in the affirmative, the
amounts claimed in the assigned causes of action could be'united
to that in the first to make up the jurisdictional amount, the
citizenship of the assignors not being alleged; and whether"(c) Supposing the jurisdictional amount was sufficient in
each cause of action, the case was even then removable to this
court when the necessary diversity of citizenship was alleged
only in the first cause of action, and was not alleged in those
assigned."

.Ar. Frederick Bauma for plaintiff in error.
Xr. Jon At7tur and X
error.
MR.

JUSTICE

Z.I. H Wheeer for defendant in

SHRAS, after stating the case, delivered the opin-

ion of the court.
This is a suit by Donald Morrison, alleging himself to be a
citizen of the State of Minnesota, against the North American

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.

Opinion of the Court.

Transportation and Trading Company, a corporation of the
State of Illinois, for damages arising out of a breach of a contract whereby the transportation company had agreed to carry
the plaintiff and his baggage from Seattle in the State of Washington to Dawson City in the Northwest Territory, in the
Dominion of Canada.
It is conceded that the defendant company failed, without
sufficient excuse, to fulfill its engagement, and the question upon
which the jurisdiction of the court below depended is as to the
nature and amount of the damages to which the plaintiff is entitled. The allegations in the complaint in that respect were,
first, the sum paid by the plaintiff as a fare being $200; second, the expenses caused by having to return to Seattle, amounting to $72.50; third, the wages which he could and would have
earned at Seattle if he had not proceeded upon the attempted
journey, being wages at the rate of three dollars per day durhig all the time intervening between August 3, 1897, and November 17, 1897, amounting to about $320; fourth, the loss of
a certain portion of plaintiff's baggage, amounting to $29.25;
and, fifth, the loss occasioned plaintiff by the defendant's failure to transport him to Dawson City, "where the plaintiff
could have obtained employment and engaged in business which
he was competent to perform and transact, at.or about Dawson
City, and thereby have secured wages and profits at the rate of
fifteen dollars per day continuously from September 15, 1897,
for the period of the year next ensuing;" "by reason whereof
there is due and owing the plaintiff from the defendant by reason of the premises, for said expenditures, outlay and damages,
the sum of two thousand three hundred and one dollars and
seventy-five cents."
It was obvious, on the face of the plaintiff's compltint, that if
he was not entitled to recover the money which he alleged "he
could have earned and secured by obtaining employment and
engaging in business at or about Dawson City," the amount necessary to give the Circuit Court jurisdiction was not involved.
While it has sometimes been said that it is the amount claimed
by the plaintiff in his declaration that brings his case within
the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, that was in suits for un-

NORTH AMERICAN &c. CO. v. MORRISON.
Opinion of the Court.

liquidated damages, in which the amount which the plaintiff
was entitled to recover was a question for the jury; an inspection of the declaration did not disclose and could not disclose but
that the plaintiff was entitled to recover the amount claimed,
and hence, even if the jury found a verdict in a sum less than
the jurisdictional amhount, the jurisdiction of the court would
not be defeated. Barry v. Edmunds, 116 U. S. 550; Scott v.
.Donald,165 U. S. 58, 89.
But where the plaintiff asserts, as his cause of action, a claim
which he cannot be legally permitted to sustain by evidence, a
mere ad damnum clause will not confer jurisdiction on the Circuit Court, but the court on motion or demurrer, or of its own
motion, may dismiss the suit. And such, we think, was the
present case.
We do not consider it necessary to enter upon a discussion of
the rule that a person is not to be held responsible in damages
for the remote consequences of every negligent act, but only
for those which are proximate or natural, and shall content ourselves by stating our conclusion that, in the circumstances disclosed by the plaintiff's declaration and in the certificate of the
trial judge, the defendant company, though liable in a court of
competent jurisdiction for the other claims asserted, cannot be
held for the amount of wages or profits which the plaintiff suggests he might have earned had he reached Dawson City.
In the District Judge's certificate it is stated that the plaintiff did not allege that he had ever lived in Dawson City before,
or.had any previous engagement or business there or any promise of employment; that it was not alleged what, if any, occupation the plaintiff had before his departure on the journey,
nor what occupation was expected at the point of destination,
or that any expected occupation or employment was communicated to the defendant company.
The plaintiff was traveling to a land of promise, hoping to
there procure some occupation, he knew not what, or to engage
in some business, he knew not what. The result of such an adventure cannot be foretold, and the plaintiff's anticipations afford
no safe ground on which to base a claim for damages..
If, then, the plaintiff in respect to his own claim, did not dis-

OCTOBER TERM.

1899.

Opinion of the Court.

close a case of which the Circuit Court had jurisdiction, did he
overcome that difficulty by the additional counts in which he
alleged himself to be the assignee of several other voyagers who
had suffered loss and damages similar to those claimed by him
on his own behalf ? The citizenship of the assignors was not
alleged, and the greater portion of the respective claims, consisted of matter which we have held in reference to plaintiff's
own claim to be too re 'Mote and uncertain to be allowed.
It is somewhat uncertain, upon the facts alleged in the declaration and those stated to us in the certificate of the District
Judge, whether if all the claims, as well those assigned and
,those held by the plaintiff in his own right, omitting those
which we have held to be too remote and uncertain, were aggregated, they would reach the necessary jurisdictional amount.
But however that may be, as it is not alleged that the assignors could have themselves prosecuted suit in the Circuit Court,
it is the settled construction of the statutes of the United States
that the suit cannot be maintained in favor of the assignee.
Sera v. Pitot,6 Cranch, 332, was an action commenced to
foreclose a mortgage given by a citizen of Louisiana to another
citizen of the same State. The language of the judiciary act of
1789 was as follows: "1Norshall any District or Circuit Court
have cognizance of any suit to recover the contents of any promissory note or other chose in action in favor of an assignee, unless a suit might have been prosecuted in such court to recover
the said contents if no assignment bad been made." 1 Stat. 78.
The plaintiff was the general assignee in insolvency of the mortgagor, and was an alien; and it was said by Chief Justice Marshall, delivering the opinion of the court:
"Without doubt assignable paper, being the chose in action
most usually transferred, was in the mind of the legislature when
the law was framed, and the words of the provision are, therefore, best adapted to that class of assignments. But there is no
reason to believe that the legislature were not equally disposed
to except from the jurisdiction of the Federal courts those who
,could sue in virtue of equitable assignments and those who could
sue in virtue of legal assignments. The *assigneeof all the open
accounts of a merchant might, under certain circumstances, be

NORTH AMERICAN &c. CO. v. MORRISON.
Opinion of the Court.

permitted to sue in equity in his own name, and there would be
as much reason to exclude him from the Federal courts as to
exclude the same person when the assignee of a particular note.
The term 'other chose in action' is broad enough to comprehend either case, and the word ' contents' is too ambiguous in
its import to restrain that general term. The contents of a
note are the sums it shows to be due, and the same, without
much violence to the language, can be said of an account."
And the same construction was put upon the language of the
act of August 13, 1888, c. 866, 25 Stat. 433. .Mexican -ational
Railroad v. Davidson, 157 U. S. 201.
We do not think that it was competent .for the plaintiff to
add to his own cause of action, in order to obtain jurisdiction
in the Circuit Court, claims assigned by those whose citizenship
and residence did not appear either in the complaint or in the
petition for removal. As, however, the plaintiff brought his action in the state court, where he was entitled to join the assigned
claims with his own, and as the case was removed into the Federal court at the instance of the defendant company, whose motion to remand the case we are now obliged to sustain, we impose the costs in the Circuit Court and in this court, on the
North American Transportation and Trading Company, the
plaintiff in error.
These views render it needless to answer severally the questions certified.
Accordingly the judgment of the Circuit Court "3reversed,
and the cause is remanded to that court, with directions to
remand the cause to the state court.

