OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Syllabus.

altogether. We can therefore say, upon the record before us,
that the evidence furnished by Taylor's statement was not so
materially to the prejudice of Columbus W. Motes as to justify
a reversal of the judgment as to him. It would be trifling with
the administration of the criminal law to award him a new trial
because of a particular error committed by the trial court, when
in effect he has stated under oath that he was guilty of the charge
preferred against him.
It is proper to say that there are other questions of a serious
character raised by the assignment of errors. But as those
questions may not arise upon another trial, we do not now
consider them.
The judgment as to Columbus Winchester .otes is affrmed,
but the judgment as to all the other plainifs in error is
reversed, with directions to grant a new trial and for fJurther proceedings consistent with this opinion.

HAWLEY v. DILLER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCURI

COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 116. Submitted February 2, 1900.-Decided Way 28, 1900.
An applicant for public land under the act of Congress of June 3, 1878,
29 Stat. 89, c. 151, kinown as the Timber and Stone Act, must support his
h
application by an affidavit stating that "l e does not apply to purchase
the same on speculation, but in good faith to appropriate it to his own
exclusive use and benefit; and that he has not, directly or indirectly,
made any agreement or contract, in any way or manner, with any person
or persons whatsoever, by which the title which he might acquire from
the Government of the United States should inure, in whole or in part,
to the benefit of any person except himself; which statement must be
verified by the oath of the applicant before the register or receiver of the
land office within the district where the land is situated." The same act
provides: "If any person taking such oath shall swear falsely in the
premises, he shall be subject to all the pains and penalties of perjury,
and shall forfeit the money which he may have paid for said lands, and

HAWLEY v. DILLER.
Counsel for Appellant.
all right and title to the same; and any grant or conveyance which he
may have made, except in the hands of bonafide purchasers,shall be null
and void."
An entryman under this act acquires only an equity, and a purchaser from
him cannot be regarded as a bona fide purchaser within the meaning of
the act of Congress unless he become such after the Government, by issuing a patent, hag parted with the legal title.
A construction of the above act long recognized and acted upon by the Interior Department should not be overthrown unless a different one is
plainly required by the words of the act.
The result of the decisions of this court in relation to the jurisdiction of
the Land Department when dealing with the public lands is as follows:
(1) That the Land Department of the Government has the power and
authority to cancel and annul an entry of public land when its offibers
are convinced, upon a proper showing, that the same was fraudulently
made; (2) that an entryman upon the public lands only secures a vested
interest in the land when he has lawfully entered upon and applied for
the same, and in all respects complied with the requirements of the law;
(3) that the Land Department has control over the disposition of the
public lands until a patent has been issued therefor and accepted by the
patentee; and (4) that redress can always be had in the courts where the
officers of the Land Department have withheld from a pre~mptioner his
rights, where they have misconstrued the law, or where any .fraud or
deception has been practiced which affected their judgment and decision.
The principle reaffirmed that where the matters determined by the Land
Office "are not properly before the Department, or its conclusions have
been reached from a misconstruction by its officers of the law applicable
to the cases before it, and it has thus denied to parties rights which,
upon a correct construction, would have been conceded to them, or where
misrepresentations and fraud have been practiced, necessarily affecting
its judgment, then the courts can, in a proper proceeding, interfere and
control its determination so as to secure the just rights of parties injuriously affected."
Sections 2450 to 2457 inclusive of the Revised Statutes, relating to suspended
entries of public lands and to suspended land claims, and which sections
require certain matters to ba passed upon by a Board consisting of the
Secretary of the Interior and the Attorney General, construed and held
to apply only to decisions of the Land Office sustaining irregular entries,
and not to decisions rejecting and cancelling such entries under the general authority conferred upon the Land Department in respect to the
public lands.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. CharZe Z Jenner for appellants.

was with him.

.r.

A. B. Browne

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

No brief filed for appellee.
MR. JusnTF HARLAS delivered the opinion of the court.

This case involves a claim to a tract of land arising out of an
entry made under the act of Congress of June 3, 1878, c. 151,
entitled "An act for the sale of timber lands in the States of
California, Oregon, Nevada and in Washington Territory,"
known as the Timber and Stone Act. 20 Stat. 89.
The act in its first section provided for the sale at a named
price and in quantities not exceeding one hundred and sixty
acres to any person or association of persons of surveyed public lands in the States and Territory named, not included within
the military, Indian and other reservations, and which were
"valuable chiefly for timber, but unfit for cultivation." It also
provided for the sale of lands "valuable chiefly for stone" on
the same terms as timber lands.
By the second section of the act it was provided: "§ 2. That
any person desiring to avail himself of the provisions of this
act shall file with the register of . the proper district a written
statement in duplicate, one of whi~h is to be transmitted to the
General rand Office, designating by.legal subdivisions the particular tract of land he desires to purchase, setting forth that
the same is unfit for cultivation, and valuable chiefly for its
timber or stone; that it is uninhabited; contains no mining or
other improvements, except for ditch or canal purposes, where
any such do exist, save such as were made by or belonging to
the applicant, nor,. as deponent verily believes, any valuable deposit of gold, silver, cinnabar, copper or coal; that deponent
has made no other application under this act; that he does not
apply to purchase the same on speculation, but in good faith to
appropriate it to his own exclusive use and benefit; and that
he has not, directly or indirectly, made any agreement or contract, in any way or manner, with Any person or persons whatsoever, by which the title which he might acquire from the
Government of the United States should inure, in whole or in
part, to the benefit of any person except himself; which statement must be verified by the oath of the applicant before the

HAWLEY v. DILLER
Opinion of the Court.

register or receiver of the land office within the district where
the land is situated; and if any person taking such oath shall
swear falsely in the premises, he shall be subject to all the pains
and penalties of perjury, and shall forfeit the money which he
may have paid for said lands, and all right and title to the
same; and any grant or conveyance which he may have made,
except in, the 1ands of bona fide -purch ers, shall be null and
void."
The third section, after making provision for the publication
of the application to purchase, provides: "And upon payment
to the proper officer of the purchase money of said land, t6gether with the fees of the register and the receiver, as provided for in case of mining claims in the twelfth section of the
act approved May 10, 1872, the applicant may be permitted to
enter said tract, and, on the transmission to the General Land
Office of the papers and testimony in the case, a patent shall
issue thereon: Provided,That any person having a valid claim to
any portion of the land may object, in writing, to the issuance
of a patent to lands so held by him,. stating the nature of his
claim thereto; and evidence shall be taken, and the merits of
said objection shall be determined by the officers of the land
office, subject to alipeal, as in other land cases. Effect shall be
given-to the foregoing provisions of this act by regulations to
bb prescribed by the Commissioner of the General Land Office."
The bill of complaint presents substantially the following
case under the above legislation:
On the 30th day of April, 1883, after having complied with
the requirements of the above act, one Henry C. Hackley paid
to the receiver of the land office in Olympia, Washington Territory, the purchase price of the N. W. I of the N. E. I and
the N.

of the N. W.

-

of section 13, and the S. E. I of the

S. W. } of section 12, all in township 36 north, of range 3 east,
Willamette meridian, in the county of Skagit, Territory (now
State) of Washington-taking from the receiver what is known
as the final or duplicate receipt. On the same day Rackley
conveyed the tract described to Stephen S. Bailey by a sufficient
deed of warranty; and on December 29, 1887, Bailey sold,
transferred and conveyed the land to the appellants.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

On August 9, 1888, the Commissioner of the General Land
Office suspended and held for cancellation the entry made by
Hackley, it having been reported to that office by a special
agent that the land in question was not chiefly valuable for
timber, but was valuable agricultural land, and also that the
entry by Hackley was made in the interest of Bailey.
On or about August 23, 1888, the register and receiver of the
local land office at Seattle baused notice of the action of the
Commissioner of the General Land Office to be served upon the
transferees, the notice stating in detail the fact of the entry by
Hackley, and that the special agent had reported that he had
made a personal examination of the land and found that it
was not chiefly valuable for timber, but was valuable agricultural land, and that the entry thereof was made in the interest
of Bailey and others, and not for the benefit and use of the
entryman.
Within sixty days after the above notice, the transferees
made a special appearance by attorneys, and moved that the
proceeding be dismissed and the entry reinstated and passed to
patent, upon the ground that the action of the Commissioner
was in excess of any authority possessed by him or by the Land
Department. That motion was denied by the Commissioner.
The bill alleges that such denial was not the result of the consideration of any fact or facts, but of an erroneous opinion of
the law.
Thereupon the transferees applied for a hearing in accordance
with the notice given, and they stipulated with the attorney
for the Government that the case be consolidated with eleven
other entries owned by them and which were suspended at or
about the same time by the Commissioner.
That application was granted, and a hearing was had before
the local land office.
The register and receiver being divided in opinion the matter
went to the Commissioner, who decided that all the land embraced in the entries before him, including the land here in
question entered by Hackley, was timber land that could be
entered as such under the act of June 3, 1878; that all of the
proceedings in relation to Hackley's entry were regular; that

HAWLEY v. DILLER.
Opinion of the Court.

the proof submitted on the entry was sufficient; and that the
Government had failed to prove that that entry was made in
the interest of Bailey or of any other person than the entryman.
Itwas therefore ordered by that officer that th entry in question be removed from suspension and remain intact upon the
records of the Land Department, and that the patent of the
United States issue therefor.
Subsequently, Tanuary 31, 1891, no patent having been issued, Secretary Noble ordered the Commissioner of the General Land Office to certify and transmit all the papers and testimony in the cause to his office. "Said order," the bill alleged,
"was made by the said Secretary of the Interior without any
appeal being taken by the United States, and without n6tice to
said transferees, or any of. the defendants in said cause." The
order was complied with, but the papers remaining in the hands
of Secretary Noble without any decision being made by him
while in office. The case was taken up by his successor, Secretary Smith, and was decided October 19, 1893, adversely to the
transferees. United States v. Bailey, 17 L. D. 468. The bill
further alleged: "Said decision of the Commissioner of the General Land Office, rendered in said cause as aforesaid, was at no
time considered by the honorable Secretary of the Interior and
the Attorney General of the United States, acting as a board or
otherwise, nor was the testimony and proceedings in said cause
by them considered or acted upon, as a board, at all; nor did
the Attorney General of the United States at any time consider
or act upon said decision of the Commissioner of the General
Land Office, or the pretended testimony, or the papers and
documents in relation to said entry, at all, either as a member
of a board or in his individual capacity."
Throughout all these proceedings appellants protested that
the Land Office was without jurisdiction or authority to cancel
the entries of the lands that had been transferred to them.
In the course of his opinion Secretary Smith said that there
was no charge nor was there any testimony affecting the transaction between Bailey and his transferees. He also said that
his interpretation of the statute did not imply that a timberland entryman was not authorized to sell his entry at any time
VOL. CLXXVII-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Comt.

that he chose after he had made his proof and received his certificate. 17 L. D. 468, 471, 476.
In accordance with the directions of the Secretary, the Commissioner of the General Land Office, on November 21, 1893,
ordered the cancellation of the timber-land entry of Hackley
upon the records of the Land Department, and the land was
held subject to entry as public land of the United States.
Thereafter Diller, the present appellee, made entry of and
purchased the land in question under the above act of June 3,
1878, and a patent therefor from the United States, bearing
date October 15, 1895, was issued to him.
On February 21, 1896, the plaintiffs, now appellants and the
transferees of Bailey, brought this suit against Diller in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Washington,
Northern Division.. The bill; after setting forth the above and
other facts, alleged that the action of the. Land Department in
regard to the entry in question was without authority of law
and that the patent to Diller was wrongfully issued.
The relief asked was a decree holding the patent of the defendant to be a cloud upon the title of the plaintiffs, adjudging
that the defendant held the title in trust for them, and requiring him to convey to them whatever title'he might have obtained or acquired by virtue of such patent; that the title of the
plaintiffs to the land be forever quieted against the defendant;
and that such further relief .be granted in the premises as might
be equitable.
A demurrer-to the bill having been overruled, the defendant
filed both a plea and an answer. After referring to the hearing
before the receiver and the register, resulting in a division of
opinion between those officers, the plea recited as a defence the
history of the proceedings as above stated, and the entry of the
land and the issue of a patent to the defendant after the cancellation of Hackley's entry. The plea was overruled. In his
answer the defendant questioned the good faith and sufficiency
of the conveyances from I=ackley to Bailey and from Bailey to
the plaintiffs. A replication was filed by the plaintiffs in which
they asserted the truth and sufficiency in law of their bill, and

HAWLEY v. DILLER.
Opinion of the Court.

made a countercharge of insucficiency, untruthfulness and uncertainty as to the defendant's answer.
Upon final bearing in the Circuit Court Judge Hanford held:
that where land had been regularly entered under the act of
June 3, 1878, it was not subject to forfeiture after it had been
conveyed to a bonafide purchaser; that the opinion of the Secretary of the Interior showed that the original entry in question was cancelled solely because it was deemed fraudulent, and
no consideration whatever was given to the rights of the plaintiffs as bona fide purchasers; and that the evidence, clearly
showed that the plaintiffs were bonafide purchasers *ithin the
meaning of the act of Congress referred to. The Circuit Court
was also of opinion that "the case in the Land Department,
after the entry had been suspended, should have been adjudicated by the board composed of the Attorney General, the
Secretary of the Interior and the Commissioner of the General
Land Office, as provided by sections 2450 and 2451, Revised
Statutes, and the Secretary of the Interior, without a determination of the board, could not lawfully cancel the entry." A
decree was therefore entered adjudging the plaintiffs to be the
equitable owners in fee and entitled to the lands described in
the bill; that the patent issued to the defendant Diller for the
land in question was issued improvidently and without authority
of law, was a cloud upon the title of the plaintiffs, and shouldbe removed; and that whatever title might have accrued under
or through such patent was held by the defendant in trust for
the use and benefit of the plaintiffs. It was further adjudged
that the defendant should convey to the plaintiffs, by good and
sufficient deed, whatever of titl6 he might have acquired under
and by virtue of the patent, free and clear of any and all incumbrance, within ten days from the filing of the decree, and
the master was authorized to make the conveyanc6 in the event
of his failure or refusal so to do; and the title of the plaintiffs
to the land was declared to be forever quieted as against the
defendant. Hawknj v. Diller, 75 Fed. Rep: 946.
The defendant appealed and the. decree of the Circuit Court
was reversed with directions tW dismiss the bill with costs to
the defendant--Judge Hawley delivering the opinion of the

OCTOBER TERMI, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

Circuit Court of Appeals. 1Viller v. Hawley, 48 U. S. App. 462.
From that decree the plaintiffs have appealed to this court.
As shown by the above statement of the provisions of the act
of June 3, 1878, 20 Stat. 89, p. 151, known as the Timber and
Stone Act, a purchaser of the surveyed public lands in California, Nevada, Oregon and Washington, valuable chiefly for timber but unfit for cultivation, or valuable chiefly for stone, was
required in his sworn application to state that he did not seek
to purchase the ame on speculation but in good faith to appropriate it to his own exclusive use and befiefit, and that he had
not directly or indirectly, made any agreement or contract
with any person or persons by which the title he might acquire
from the United States should inure in whole or in part to the
benefit of any person except himself; and if the applicant swore
falsely in the premises, he became liable to the penalties of perjury, and would forfeit the money he paid for the lands; and
all right and title to the same and any grant or conveyance he
may have made, "except in the hands of bonaftde purchasers,"
would be null and void.,
Who, within the meaning of the act, are to be deemed bona
ftde purchasers? Could the appellants, against whom, in respect of these lands, no charge of fraud was made, be deemed
bonajtde purchasers, if it appeared to the Land Department,
before a patent issued,. that the original entryman made the
application to purchase "on speculation" and not in good faith
to appropriate the lands to his own exclusive use and benefit?
The words ' bona jde purchasers," as applied to purchasers
of public lands, did not appear for the first time in the Timber and Stone Act of 1878. The first section of the act of
June 22, 1838, granting pregmnption rights to settlers on the
public lands, contains substantially the same provisions as to
the effect of a false oath by the applicant and the same saving for the benefit of bona fde purchasers. 5 Stat. 251, c. 99.
Like provisions were made in the act of September 4, 184:1,
appropriating the proceeds of the sales of the public lands and
granting preemption rights. 5 Stat. 453, 456, c. 16, § 13. And
the provisions of the last act were preserved in section 2262 of
the Revised Statutes.

HAWLEY v. DILLER.
Opinion of the Court.

The contention of appellants is that as between themselves
and the United States they must be deemed to have been bona
fide purchasers from the moment they bought in good faith
from Bailey, the vendee of Hackley, (although no patent had
been issued,) and that, under the act, they could not be affected
by the fraud of the original entryman or his assignee.
While the mere words of the act of Congress furnish some
ground for this contention, the interpretation suggested cannot
be approved. In Boot v. Shields, 1 Wool. 340, 348, 363, Mr.
Justice Miller had occasion to consider who were to be regarded
as bona fide purchasers under the preemption laws when no
patent had been issued by the Uiited States. He said: "It is
further insisted on behalf of the defendants that they are bona
fUe purchasers, and that they, as such, are entitled to the protection of the court. I think it pretty clear that some at least
of these defendants purchased and paid their money without
any knowledge in fact of any defect in the title. Yet they are
not bona fide purchasers, for a valuable consideration, without
notice, in the sense in which the terms are employed in courts
of equity. And this for several reasons. They all purchased
before the issue of the patent. The more meritorious purchased
after the entry had been assailed and decided against by the
land office. But that is a circumstance not material to this
consideration. Until the issue of the patent the legal title remained in the LTnited States. Had his entry been valid, Shields
would have taken only an. equity. His grantees took only an
equity. They did not acquire the legal title. And in order to
establish in himself the character of a bona fide purchaser, so
as to be entitled to the protection of chancery, a party must
showthat, in his purchase and by the conveyance to him, he
acquired the legal title. If he have but an equity, it is overreached by the better equity of his adversary."
The rule thus laid down was followed by Secretary Teller in
Cogswell's Case, 3 L. D. 23, 28. In Chrisinger'sCase, 4 L. D.
34:7, 349, Secretary Lamar said: "It is insisted by counsel, and
ably argued at length, that the assignees of Chrisinger, being
bona fide purchasers after entry, are entitled to intervene and
have their interests protected as they took without notice of

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

any defect in the final proof. This proposition is not tenable.
It involves the principle that although the claim for title while
in the hands of the entryman is worthless, on account of his
failure to comply with the law, such claim may be strengthened
and made a matter of absolute right by virtue of a transfer to
an innocent purchaser. The converse of this, however, is true.
Conceding the right of sale after the issuance of final certificate and prior to patent, the purchaser takes no better claim
for title than the entryman has to confer, and whatever right
is thus acquired is subject to the subsequent action of the Land
Department. -fyers v. Croft, 13 Wall. 291 ; Alargaret Kissack,
2 0. L. L. 421. Again, the Department must deal directly with
its own vendees, with the persons with whom it contracts. It
cannot undertake to follow the transfers of thb grantees, and
to settle questions that may arise upon such transfers, but must
leave such matter for determination in the courts."
So in Smith v. Custer, 8 L. D. 269, 278, Secretary Vilas said:
"The preemption purchaser takes by his final proofs and payment, and his certificate of purchase, only a right to a patent
for the public lands in case the facts shall be found by the Generfal Land Office and the Interior Department upon appeal to
warrant the issuance of it. Whatever claim to patent he possesses by virtue of his payment and certificate is dependent
upon the action of the Depaitment and its future finding of
the existence of the conditions, and his compliance in fact with
the prerequisites, prescribed by law to the rightful acquisition
of the public land he claims. This being so, it is plain that
the purchaser can acquire from the entryman no greater estate
or right than the entryman possesses. The purchaser is chargeable with knowledge of the law, which includes knowledge of
this law; and is chargeable with knowledge of the state of the
title which he buys, in so far, at least, as that the legal title
remains in the United States, subject to the necessary inquiry
and determination by the land office and Department uponwhich
a patent may issue. He is not then an 'innocent purchaser,' so
far as there may exist reasons why that patent should not issue.
He buys subject to the risk of the consequences of 'the inquiry
depending in the Department. He buys a title sub judie. At

HAWLEY v. DILLER.
Opinion of the Court.

the most, it is but an equitable title, the legal title being in the
Government. It is a familiar rule that the purchaser of an equitable title takes and holds it subject to all equities upon it in the
hands of the vendor, and has no better standing than he. Boone
v. Chiles, 10 Pet. 177; Root v. Shields, 1 Woolworth, 340."
These principles were applied by the Land Department in
Travelers' Insurance Co., 9 L. D. 316, 320, 321.
Again, in United States v. Allard, 14 L. D. 392, 405,406, the
question was fully examined by Secretary Noble in the light of
the authorities, and his conclusion was thus stated: "A bona
fide purchaser of land is one who is the purchaser of the legal
title, or estate; and a purchaser of a mere equity is not embraced in the .definition. Boone v. Chiles, 10 Pet. 177; 3 Op.
Attys. Gen. 664. This was the well-defined meaning of the
term long before the enactment of the statute under consideration, and, under a well-established rule of construction, unless
it is apparent that Congress intended it to have a different
meaning, it is to be presumed to have been used in its technical
sense. There is nothing in the*present statute to indicate that
Congress used the term in other ,than its technical sense. Indeed, it may properly be considered as having attained a technical meaning as used by Congress in previous legislation relating
to the disposal of the public lands. As long ago as 1841, Attorney General Legare, (3 Op. Attys. Gen. swpra,) in considering
a case which arose under the preemption act of 1838, 1 Lester,
49,-involving the use of the term in that act, and the right of
an assignee of a preemption claimant thereunder, held: ' The
assignee took only in equity, and he took it, of course, subject
to all prior equities. The patent, it is needless to say, is the
only complete legal title under our land laws. But to protect
a"purchaser under the plea of a purchase for a valuable consideration, without notice, he must have a complete legal title.'"
After referring to Boot v. Shields, above cited, the Secretary
concluded: "It thus appears that prior to the passage of the
act under consideration (June 3, 1878) it had been determined,
both by executive construction and judicial interpretation, that
the term ' bona fide purchaser,' as used in the preemption law,
was so used in its technical sense, or with reference to its pre-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

viously known and well-defined legal import. It is therefore
to be presumed, nothing appearing to the contrary, that Congress, in making use of the term in the Timber and Stone Act,
did so in the light of such construction, and must have intended
its-use in the same sense as in the preemption law, namely, that
to be a bonajde purchaser within the protection of the statute,
a party must have acquired by his purchase and the conveyance
to him a complete legal title." See also Whitaker v. So. Pac.
1R. R. Co., 2 Copp's Public Lands (1882 ed.), 919, 923; Stout v.
Hyatt, 13 Kansas, 232, 243, 244; Taylor v. Weston, 77 California, 534, 540.
We are of opinion that the rule announced in Boot v. Shields,
above cited, and which has been steadily followed in the Land
Department, is consistent with the words of the statute. If any
doubt existed on the subject, the construction so long recognized
by the Interior Department in its administration of the public
lands should be not overthrown, unless a different one is plainly
required-as it is not--.by the words of the act. Urnited States
v. Philbrick, 120 U. S.52, 59 ; United States v. Johnston, 124
U. S.236, 253; United States v. Alabama Great Southern 1. R.
Co., 142 U. S.615, 621.
The contention of appellants that they could not be affected
by the fraud, if any, committed by the original entryman or
his vendee being unsound, is there any other ground upon which
the court can hold that the title to these lands is held by the
appellee in trust for them?
It is contended that the Land Department was without jur
isdiction to cancel the original entry. The exclusion of mere
speculators from purchasing the public lands referred to in the
Timber and Stone Act would be of no practical value if it were
true that one having purchased in good faith from an entryman
who is proved to have sworn falsely in his application, could
demand, of right, that a patent be issued to him. The Land
Department has authority, at any time before a patent is issued,
to inquire whether the original entry was in conformity with the
act of Congress. Rnight v. United States Land Assooiation,142
U. S.161, and ZXfichigan Land & -Lumber Co. v. Rust, 168 U. S.
589, 593, and authorities cited in each case. Of course, that

HAWLEY v: DILLER.
Opinion of the Court.

Department could not arbitrarily destroy the equitable title
acquired'by the entryman and held by him or his assignee.
Those who hold such title have a right to be notified of and
heard in any proceeding instituted in the Land Department having for its object the cancellation of the entry upon which the
equitable title depends. In the present case the appellants had
full notice of the proceedings before the register and receiver
and before the Commissioner of the General Land Office, which
resulted in the cancellation of the original entry. And we infer
from the record that they had notice of the order of the Secretary of the Interior directing the papers to be sent to him for
examination. The plea, referring to the action of the Commissioner of the General Land Office and of the Secretary of the
Interior, distinctly stated that Ifackley "was given every opportunity to be heard before the said officers of the Land Department of the United States, likewise his said transferees,
before said certificate was canceled." The allegation in the bill
on this point means only that the order of the Secretary of the
Interior to send the papers to him was made without notice to
Hackley and his transferees. But that is immaterial if they
had an opportunity to be heard before the Secretary while the
case was in his hands. In the summary of the points relied
upon by appellants, it is not claimed that they had no such
opportunity. The order of cancellation by the Secretary was
based upon the fact, which he ascertained from the evidence,
that the original entry of the land in dispute was not in good
faith for the exclusive benefit and use of the entryman but for
the speculative purposes of others with whom the entryman was
in collusion.
It is suggested that the order of the Land Department cancelling the entry was based upon a misconstruction of the law.
If it had been, then the error committed could be corrected by
the courts; for, as said in Sa&ford v. Sa.ford, 139 U. S. 642,
64'7, where the matters determined by the Land Office "are not
properly before the Department, or its conclusions have been
reached from a misconstruction by its officers of the law applicable to the cases before it, and it has thus denied to parties
rights which, upon a correct construction, would have been con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

ceded to them, or wheie misrepresentations and fraud have been.
practiced, necessarily hffecting its judgment, then the courts can,
in a proper proceeding, interfere and control its determination
so as to secure the just rights of parties injuriously affected."
See also Quinby v. Conlan, 104 U. S. 420, 426; Baldwin v.
Stark, 107 U. S. 463, 465; Cornelius v. esel, 128 U. S. 456,
461. But there was no misconstruction of the law by the Land
Department. Upon the facts found, no other conclusion could
properly be reached than the one indicated by the opinion of
the Secretary of the Interior, United States v. Bailey, 17 L. D.
468, namely, that the original entry of the land was in violation of the act of Congress.
We are of opinion that the result of the decisions of this court
was correctly stated by Judge Hawley, when speaking for the
United States Circuit Court of Appeals, in American .ortgage
Co. v. HYopper, 29 U. S. App. 12, 17, he said: "(1) That the
Land Department of the Government has the power 'and authority to cancel and annul an entry of public land when its
officers are convinced, upon a proper showing, that the same
was fraudulently made; (2) that an entryman upon the public
lands only secures a vested interest in the land when he has
lawfully entered upon and applied for the same, and in all respects complied with the requirements of the law; (3) that the
Land Department has control over the disposition of the public
lands until a patent has been issued therefor and accepted by
the patentee; and (4) that redress can always be had in the
courts where the officers of *the Land Department have withheld from a pre~mptioner his rights, where they have misconstrued the law, or where any fraud or deception has been practiced which affected their judgment and decision."
One other question remains to be considered. The appellants insist that the order of the Secretary of the Interior cancelling the entry of these lands could be of- no legal effect without being approved by the Attorney General. This question is
one of no little importance in the administration of the public
lands. It has never been directly determined by this court.
The sections of the Revised Statutes upon the construction of
which this question depends are the following: "§ 2450. The

HAWLEY v. DILLER.
Opinion of the Court

Commissioner of the General Land Office is authorized to .decide
upon principles of equity and justice, as recognized in the courts
of equity, and in accordance with regulations to be settled by
the Secretary of the [TreasurT,] [Interior] the Attorney General, and the Commissioner, conjointly, consistently with such
principles, all cases of suspended entries of public lands and of
suspended prebmption land claims, and to adjudge in what cases
patents shall issue upon the same. §2451. Every such adjudication shall be approved by the Secretary of the [Treasuryl
[Interior] and the Attoriley General, acting as a board; and
shall operate only to divest the United States of the title of the
lands embraced thereby, without prejudice to the rights of conflicting claimants. § 2452. The Commissioner is directed to
report to Congress at the first session after any such adjudications have been made a list of the same under the classes prescribed by law, with a statement of the principles upon which each
class was determined. § 2453. The Commissioner shall arrange
his decisions into two classes, the first class to embrace all such
cases of equity as may be finally confirmed by the board, and
the second class to embrace all such cases as the board reject
and decide to be invalid. § 2454. For all lands covered by
claims which are placed in the first class, patents shall issue to
the claimants; and all the lands embraced by claims placed in
the second class shall, ipsofacto, revert to, and become part of,
the public domain. §2455. It may be lawful for the Commissioner of the General Land Office to order into niarket, after
due notice, without the formality and expense of a proclamation of the President, all lands of the second class, though theretofore unproclaimed and unoffered; and such other isolated or
disconnected tracts or parcels of unoffered lands which, in his
judgment, it would be proper to expose to sale in like manner.
But public notice of at least thirty days shall be given by the
land officers of the district in which such lands may be situated,
pursuant to the directions of the Commissioner. § 2456. Where
patents have been already issued on entries which are confirmed
by the officers who are constituted the board of adjudication,
the Commissioner of the General Land Office, upon the cancelling of the outstanding patent, is authorized to issue a new pat-.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

ent, on such confirmation, to the person who made the entry,
his heirs or assigns. § 2457. The preceding provisions, from
section 2450 to section 2456, inclusive, shall be applicable to all
cases of suspended entries and locations, which have arisen in
the General Land . Office since the twenty-sixth day of June,
1856, as well as to all cases of a similar kind which may hereafter occur, embracing as well locations under bounty-land warrants as ordinary entries or sales, including homestead entries
and preemption locations or cases; where the law has been substantially complied with, and the error or informality arose
from ignorance, a7cident or mistake which is satisfactorily explained; and where the rights of no other claimant or preemptor are prejudiced, or where there is no adverse claim."
Judge Hanford in the Circuit Court held, as we have seen,
that the case in the Land Department after the entry had been
suspended should have been adjudicated by the. board, composed of the Attorney General, the Secretary of the Interior
and the Commissioner of the General Land Office, as provided
by sections 2450 and 2451, and that the Secretary of the Interior, without a determination of that board, could not lawfully
cancel the entry - citing Stimso -Land Co. v. f-ollister, 75
Fed. Rep. 941. The Circuit Court of Appeals said upon this
point: "In the numerous decisions of the Supreme Court sustaining the authority of the Commissioner of the General Land
Office and of the Secretary of the Interior to affirm, modify or
annul the entries of public land made in the local land offices,
no reference is made to the provisions of sections 2450 and
2451. Notwithstanding this fact, we are asked to assume that
that court must have overlooked these provisions of the statute.
We decline to act upon any such presumption."
The legislation embraced in the above sections is the outgrowth of the acts of August 26, 1842, 5 Stat. 531, c. 205;
August 3, 1846, 9 Stat. 51, c. 78; July 17, 1848, 9 Stat. 246,
c. 101; March 3, 1853, 10 Stat. 258, c. 152, and June 26,
1856, 11 Stat. 22, c. 47. Sections 2450 to 2455, both inclusive,
were taken from the act of August 3, 1846, which was confined
to "cases of suspended entries now existing in said land office ;"
and the operation of the act was limited to a period of two

HAWLEY v. DILLER.
Opinion of the Court.

years, but its operation was extended to August 3, 1849, by
the act of July 17, 1848 and by the act of March 3, 1853, was
extended for a term of ten years from March 3, 1853, and made
applicable "as well to cases which were inadvertently omitted
to be acted on under said act as to those of a like character and
description which have arisen between the date of said act and
the present time." And the act of June 26, 1856, revived and
continued in force the provisions of the acts of August 3, 1846,
and March 3, 1853, as to all cases of suspended entries and
locations "where the law has been substantially complied with
and the error or informality has arisen from ignorance, accident or mistake, and is satisfactorily explained, and where the
rights of no other claimant or preemptor will be prejudiced,
or where there is no adverse claim."
The act of June 26, 1856, is reproduced in the Revised Statutes as section 2457.
Thus after June 26, 1856, the statutes relating to the board
were not applicable to every case of suspended entry, but to
those specially mentioned in the act of that date. As carried
into the Revised Statutes the purpose of this legislation is,
where the law has been substantially complied with, to authorize the confirmation of entries which otherwise the land officers
would be compelled to reject because of errors or informalities
which, if satisfactorily explained as arising from ignorance, accident or mistake, would, in the absence of an adverse claim,
be excused by the courts, in administering the prnciples of
equity and justice. The purpose of the legislation was not to
limit or restrict the general or ordinary jurisdiction of the land
officers. It was rather to supplement that jurisdiction by authorizing them to apply the principles of equity, for the purpose
of saving from rejection and cancellation a class of entries
deemed meritorious by Congress, but which could not be sustained and carried to patent under existing land laws. There
was no necessity for legislation authorizing the rejection or cancellation of irregular entries, but legislation was necessary to
save such entries from rejection and cancellation when otherwise meritorious.
Primarily the decision and adjudication of suspended entries

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

is, under sections 2450 and 2451, as theretofore, left with the
Commissioner of the General Land Office, except that he is
to be guided by the principles of equity and justice, and by the
.regulations settled by the Secretary of the Interior, the Attorney General and the Commissioner, conjointly. The only question is whether all -decisions of the Commissioner upon such
suspended entries must be submitted to the Secretary of the Interior. and the Attorney General, acting as a board, for approval.
If the matter rested upon section 2450 and the first part of
section 2451, it might well be contended that a decision rejecting or cancelling a suspended entry should, equally with a decision sustaining such an entry, be submitted to the board for
approval. But the latter part of section 2451 does not sustain
that view. It is there declared that "every such adjudication,"
,if approved by the board, "shall operate only to divest the
United States of the title of the lands embraced thereby." A
decision merely rejecting or cancelling the entry could not, with
or without the approval of the board, have the effect of divesting the United States of its title. That effect could only flow
from a decision sustaining the entry, and since the effect of a
decision:by the Commissioner such as is required to be submitted
to the board and of aii approval thereof by the board, is to divest the United States of its title, it.follows that only decisions
sustaining irregular entries are required to be submitted to the
board for its approval. .Decisions rejecting or cancelling such
entries have the force and effect otherwise accorded to them by
the general landilaws, and are subject to the appellate or supervisory authority of the Secretary of the Interior as in other instances.
The reasons fot requiring the approval by the Secretary of
the, Interior and the Attorney General of decisions of the Commissioner sustaining irregular entries, under this exceptional
legislation, do not apply to decisi6ns rejecting and cancelling
such entries. In the one instdnce claims to public lands are
sustained, although acquired in an irregular manner, while in
the other such claims are rejected and the public title preserved.
Hackley's entry qf the lands in controversy was not suspended
because of any error or informality therein arising from igno-

HAWLEY v. DILLER.
Opinion of the Court.

rance, accident or mistake susceptible of explanation, but because of the charge that the same was unlawfully and speculatively made for the benefit of others and not for his own
exclusive use and benefit. The suspension was ordered with a
view to an investigation and heariIng upon that charge. The
decision of the Commissioner sustaining the entry, following
this investigation and hearing, was not therefore rendered in
pursuance of the special authority conferred upon him by sections 2450 to 2-57 of the Revised Statutes, but under the general authority given to him, in respect of the public lands, by
sections 441, 453 and 2478 of the Revised Statutes and by the
act of June 3, 1878, under which Hackley's entry was made.
We are of opinion that the Commissioner's decision having
been made under his general authority, and not under the exceptional authority given by sections 2450 to 245,7, was not required to be submitted to the Secretary of the Interior and the
Attorney General, acting as a board, for approval, but was subject to the appellate or supervisory authority of the Secretary
of the Interior under sections 441, 453 and 2478 of the Revised
Statutes. Rhight v. United States Land Association, 142 U. S.
161, 177. It follows that the Secretary of the Interior in reversing the decision of the Commissioner of the General Land
Office and in rejecting and cancelling Ilackley's entry did not
exceed the jurisdiction conferred upon him by law.
The matter determined by the decision of the Secretary was
whether Hackley's entry was made in good faith for his own
exclusive use and benefit. After notice, investigation and hearing, the Secretary of the Interior determined that question
against Hackley. In the absence of a charge that this decision
was fraudulently given or obtained-and no such charge is
made-the Secretary's determination of this question of fact is
conclusive upon the courts. This is established by repeated decisions. And if the charge against Hackley's entry be considered as one of fraud, involving a mixed question of fact and law,
still the decision of the Secretary of the Interior cancelling that
entry fully states the evidence or facts from wbich the fraud.
was held by him to be deducible as a matter of law. Upon an
examination of that decision and of the evidence or facts there-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Syllabus.

in recited we are not prepared to hold that any error of law
was committed by that officer.
This disposes of all the questions in the case that need be
noticed, and the decree below is
Afrmed.

MAY v. NEW ORLEANS.
No. 332. Argued March 6, 7,1900.-Decided Mlay 21, 1900.
May & Co., merchants at New Orleans, were engaged in the business of
importing goods from abroad, and selling them. In each box, or case in
which they were brought into this country, there would be many packages, each of which was separately marked and wrapped. The importer
sold each package separately. The city of New Orleans taxed the goods
after they reached the hands of the importer (the duties having been
paid) and were ready for sale. Held:
(1) That the box, case or bale in which the separate parcels or bundles
were placed by the foreign seller, manufacturer or packer was to
be regarded as the original package, and when it reached its destination for trade or sale and was opened for the purpose of using
op exposing to sale the separate parcels or bundles, the goods lost
their distinctive claracter as imports and each parcel or bundle
became a part of the general mass of property in the State and
subject to local taxation;
(2) That Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419, established these propositions: 1. That the payment of duties to the United States gives
the right to sell the things imported, and that such right to sell
cannot be forbidden or impaired by a State; 2. That while the
things imported retain their character as imports, and remain the
property of the importer, "in his warehouse, in the original form
or package in which it was imported," a tax upon it is a duty on
imports within the meaning of the Constitution; 3. That a State
cannot, in the form of a license or otherwise, tax the right of the
importer to sell, but when the importer has so acted upon the goods
imported that they have been incorporated or mixed with the general mass of property in tle State, such goods have then lost their
distinctive character as imports, and have become from that time
subject to state taxation, not because they are the products of
other countries, but because they are -property within the 'State
in like condition with other property that should contribute, in
the way of taxation, to the support of the government which protects the owner in his person and estate.

