PLUMIUR v. COLER.
Statement of the Case.

PLUMER v. COLER.
ERROR TO THE SURROGATE'S COURT OF THE COUNTY OF NEW YORK,
STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 489. Argued February 27, 28,1900.-Decided May 14,1900.

The right to take property by will or descent is derived from and regulated
by municipal law; and, in assessing a tax upon such right or privilege,
tho State may lawfully measure or fix the amount of the tax by referring
to the value of the property passing; and the incidental fact that such
property is composed, in whole or in part, of Federal securities, does not
invalidate the state tax, or the law under which it is imposed.
The relation of the individual citizen hnd resident to the State in which he
resides is such that his right, as the owner of property, to direct its descent by will or permit its descent to be regulated by statute, and his
right as legatee, devisee or heir to receive the property of his testator or
ancestor, are rights derived from and regulated by the State; and no
sound distinction can be drawn batween the power of the State, in imposing taxes upon franchises of corporations, composed of individual persons, and in imposing taxes upon the right or privilege of individuals to
avail themselves of the right to grant and to receive property under the
statutes regulating the descent of the property of decedents.

JOSEPH PLUMIMER, a citizen and resident of New York, died
October 28, 1898, leaving a last will whereby he bequeathed to
Harry Plummer, his executor, forty thousand dollars in United
States bonds, issued under the Fundinig Act of 1870, in trust,
to hold the same during the lifetime of Ella Plummer Brown,
daughter of the testator, and to pay the income thereof to her
during her life, and at her death to divide the same between
and amongst her issue then living.
The value of this life interest was computed by the appraisers
at the sum of $16,120. and a tax of $161.20 was imposed thereon
by the surrogate of the county of New York. From this appraisal and the order imposing the tax an appeal was taken to
the Surrogate's Court of the county and State of New York,
where the following stipulation was filed:
"It is stipulated and agreed by and between the attorneys
for the respective parties to the above-entitled proceedings that

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

the forty thousand dollars in amount at par of bonds of the
United States of America, of which the said Joseph Plummer
died possessed, and upon the interest in which of Ella Plummer
Brown a tax.of $161.20 was fixed, assessed and determined by
the order appealed from, consist of four per cent bonds issued
in the year 1877 and due in the year 1907, under and by virtue
of and pursuant to the statute of the United States, passed
July 14, 1870, entitled 'An act to authorize the refunding of
the national debt,' which authorized the Secretary of the Treasury, among other things, to issue various classes of bonds in the
sums therein mentioned, including Ca sum or sums not exceeding
in the aggregate one thousard million dollars of like bonds,
.

.

.

payable at the pleasure of the United States after

thirty years from the date of their issue, and bearing interest at the rate of four per cent per annum; all of which said
several classes of bonds and the interest thereon shall be exempt
from the payment of all taxes or duties of the United States,
as well as from taxation in any form by or under state, municipal or local authority; and the said bonds shall have set forth
and expressed upon their face the above specified conditions;'
and that pursuant to said statute there is set forth on the face
of each of said bonds the following clause, that is to say: ' The
principal and interest are exempt from the payment of all taxes
or duties of the United States, as well as from taxation in any
form by or under state, municipal or local authority.'"
On December 22, 1899, the Surrogate's Court affirmed the
appraisal and the order imposing a tax. Thereupon Harry
Plummer, executor, appealed to the appellate division of the
Supreme Court of the State of New York, which court on January 5, 1900, affirmed the order of the surrogate and the decree
of the Surrogate's Court. From this decree of the appellate
division of the Supreme Court an appeal was taken to the Court
of Appeals of the State of New York, where, on January 8,
1900, the proceedings and order of the surrogate and the decree of the appellate division were affirmed.
In the notice of appeal to the Surrogate's Court and in that
of the appeal to the Court of Appeals the grounds of appeal
were stated to be the invalidity of the statute of New York pur-

PLUMMER v. COLER.
Opinion of the Court.

porting to impose a tax upon a transfer by legacy of bonds of
the United States, and the invalidity of the statute of the State
of New York and of the authority exercised thereunder by the
appraiser and the surrogate, in so far as United Siates bonds
were concerncd. And the appellant specially set up and claimed
a title, right, privilege and immunity under the Constitution of
United States, and under the statute of the United States in
respect to the exemption of said bonds from state taxation in
any form.
On January 9, 1900, a writ of error was sued out from this
court.
M r.William V.Rowe and Mr.Teadwell Cleveland for plaintiff in error.
.Mr.
Jab~ih HoZmes, Jr.,and -Mr..EdgarJ. Levey for defendant
in error.
M .JUSTICE SHIRAs, after stating the case, delivered the opinion of the court.

In this case we are called upon to consider the question
whether, under the inheritance tax laws of a State, a tax may
be validly imposed on a legacy consisting of United States bonds
issued under a statute declaring them to be exempt from state
taxation in any form.
It is not open to question that a State cannot, in the exercise
of the power of taxation, tax obligations of the United States.
lFeton v. Charleston, 2 Pet. 449; Bank of Commerce v. -ew
Y:ork City, 2 Black, 620; Hame In8surance Co. v. ew York,
14 U. S.594, 598.
So, likewise, it is settled law that bonds issued by a State, or
under its authority by its public municipal bodies, are not taxable by the United States. M2fercantile Bank v. New York, 121
U. S. 138; Pollock v. Farmers' Loan.& Trust Co., 157 U. S.
429, 583.
The reasoning upon which these two lines of decision proceed
is the same, namely, as was said by Mr. Justice Nelson in CoZ-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

lctor v. Day, 11 Wall. 113, 124: "The general government
and the States, although both exist within the same territorial
limits, are separate and distinct sovereignties, acting separately
and independently of each other, within their respective spheres.
The former in its appropriate sphere is supreme; but the States
within the limits of their powers not granted, or, in the language of the Tenth Amendment, ' reserved,' are as independent
of the general government as that government within its sphere
is independent of the States;" and, as was said by Mr. Chief
Justice Fuller, in Pollock v. Farmers'Loan & Trust Company,
157 U. S.537: "As the States cannot tax the powers, the operations or the property of the United States, nor the means which
they employ to carry their powers into execution, so it has been
held that the United States have no power under the Constitution to tax either the instrumentalities or the property of a
State."
As, then, for the reasons advanced and applied in the previous
cases, it is not within the power of a* State to tax Federal securities, it was not necessary for Congress, in order to secure
such immunity, to declare in terms, in the act of July 14, 1870,
and on the face of the bonds issued thereunder, that the principal and interest were exempt from taxation in any form by or
under state, municipal or local authority. Such a declaration
did not operate to withdraw from the States any power or right
previously possessed, nor to create, as between the States and
the holders of the bonds, any contractual relation. It doubtless may be regarded as a legitimate mode of advising purchasers
of such bonds of their immunity from state taxation, and of
manifesting that Congress did not intend to waive this immunity, as it had done in the case of national banks, which are admittedly governmental instrumentalities.
With these concessions made, we are brought to the pivotal
question in the case, and that question is thus presented in the
second point discussed in the brief filed for the plaintiff in error.
"If the question of the right of the State to impose the tax now
in question be considered merely with reference to the inherent
lack of power of the State to impose such a tax, because of the
provisions of the Constitution of the United States bearing .ipon

PLUMMER v. COLER.
Opinion of the Court.
that question, without any aid from the statute-of the United
States under which these bonds were issued, or the exemption
clause contained in the bonds, we conceive it to be entirely
clear that the tax in question is unconstitutional, because impairing and burdening the borrowing power of the United
States." Or, as stated elsewhere in the brief: "The States have
no power to impose any tax or other burden which would have
the effect to prevent or hinder the government of the United
States from borrowing such amounts of money as it may require for its purposes, on terms as beneficial and favorable to
itself, in all respects, as it could do if no such tax were imposed
by the State."
It will be observed that these propositions concede that the
tax law of the State of New York in question does not expressly, or by riecessary implication, propose to tax Federal securities. It is only when and if, in applying that law to the
estates of decedents, such estates are found to consist wholly or
partly of United States bonds, that the reasoning of the plaintiff in error, assailing the validity of the statute, can have any
application. And the contention is that individuals, in forming
or creating their estates, will or may be deterred from offering
terms, in the purchasing of such bonds, as favorable as they
otherwise might do, if they are bound to know that such portion of their estates as consists of such bonds is to be included,
equally with other property, in the assessment of an inheritance tax.
Before addressing ourselves directly to the discussion of these
propositions we shall briefly review the decisions in whose light
they must be determined.
And, first, what is the voice of the state courts?
A detailed examination of the state decisions is unnecessary,
because it is admitted, in the brief of the plaintiff in error that
in many, if not in most, of the States of the Union inheritance
or succession tax laws, similar to the New York statute in question, are and have been Jong in operation, and that the question
of their validity, in cases like the present, has always heretofore
been determined by the state courts against the United States.
We cannot, however, accede to the suggestion in the brief that

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

the state decisions are entitled to but little consideration, for
the reason that "they are the determinations of a distinct sovereignty, adjudicating upon the rights of the nation, and naturally jealous of their own." Undoubtedly, in a case like the
present, the national law is paramount, and its final exposition
is for this court. Still, for reasons too obvious to require statement, the decisions of the state courts, particularly if they
are uniform and concur in their reasoning, are worthy of respectful consideration, even if the question be, at last, a Federal one.
Without attempting a rehearsal of the state decisions, we
may profitably examine the reasons and conclusions of several
of the leading state courts.
A statute of Massachusetts of 1862 provided that every institution for savings, incorporated under the laws of that State,
should pay a tax on account of its depositors, on the average
amount of its deposits. The Provident Institution of Savings,
a corporation having no property except its deposits and the
property in which they were invested, and authorized by the
general statute of Massachusetts to receive money on deposit
and to invest its deposits in securities of the United States, had
on deposit on the 1st day of May, 1865, $8,047,652-of which
$1,327,000 stood invested in public funds of the United States
exempt by law of the United States from taxation under state
authority. The company declined to pay that portion of the
tax on its property invested in United States bonds. On suit
brought by the Commonwealth to recover the same, the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, regarding the tax as one
on franchise, and not on property, held the tax to be lawful.
Commonwealth v. Provident Institution, 12 Allen, 312.
By a subsequent statute of 1864, c. 208, corporations having
capital stock divided into shares were required to pay a tax of a
certain percentage upon "the excess of the market value" of
all such stock over the value of its real estate and machinery.
The Hamilton Manufacturing Company refused to pay the tax
upon that portion of its property which was invested in United
States securities, because, by the act of Congress authorizing
their issue, they were exempt from taxation by state authority.

PLUMMER v. COLER.
Opinion of the Court.

It was held by the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts
that the tax was to be regarded as a tax on the franchise and
privileges of the corporation, and was lawful so far as related
to Federal securities. Commonwealth v. Hamilton Company,
12 Allen, 298, 300.
The legislature of Connecticut in 1863 enacted that the savings banks in the State should annually pay to the treasurer of
the State a sum equal to three fourths of one per cent on the
total amount of deposits. The "Society for Savings," a corporation of Connecticut, refused to pay the tax upon that portion
of its deposits which was invested in United States bonds, declared by act of Congress to be exempt from taxation by state
authority.
On a suit brought by Coite, treasurer of the State, to recover
the tax thus withheld, the Supreme Court of Connecticut decided that the tax in question was not a tax on property, but on
the corporation as such, and rendered judgment accordingly for
the plaintiff.' 0oite v. Savings Bank, 32 Conn. 173.
In Pennsylvania it has been repeatedly held that the collateral inheritance law of that State, imposing a tax upon the total
amount of the estates of decedents, is valid, although the estate
may consist in whole or in part of United States bonds; and
this upon the principle that what is called a collateral inheritance tax is a bonus, exacted from the collateral kindred and
others, as the conditions on which they may be admitted to take
the estate left by a deceased relative or testator; that the estate
does not belong to them, except as a right to it is conferred by
the State; that the right of the owner to transfer it to another
after death, or of kindred to succeed, is the result of municipal
regulation, and must, consequently, be enjoyed subject to such
conditions as the State sees fit to impose. Strode v. Commonwealth, 52 Penn. St. 181; Clymer v. Commonwealth, 52 Penn.
St. 181, 186.
In Virginia the highest court of the State has construed a
similar statute as imposing the tax, not upon the property, but
upon the privilege of acquiring it by will or under the intestate
laws. Eyre v. Jacob, 14 G.rat. 422; .Miller v. Commonwealth,
27 Grat. 110.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

The "Supreme Court of Illinois has held valid a statute of
that State, entitled "An act to tax gifts, legacies and inheritances in certain cases, and to provide for the collection of the
same." Rev. Stat. Ill. 1895, c. 120. The constitutionality of
the act Was denied,'because of the alleged want of reasonableness in its classification of those subject to the tax and the want
of equality in the amounti imposed. But the Supreme Court
held that an inheritance tax is a tax not upon property, but on
the succession, and that the right to take property by devise
or descent is the creature of the law, a privilege, and that the
authority which confers the privilege may impose conditions
upon it. Joohergergerv. Drnake, 167 Illinois, 122.
By an act of the legislature of New York, Laws of 1881, c. 361,
p. 481, it was enacted that "every corporation, joint stock company or association whatever, now or hereafter incorporated or
organized under any law of this State,

.

.

.

shall be sub-

ject to and pay a tax, as a tax upon its corporate franchise or
business, into the treasury of the State, annually, to be computed as follows: If the dividends made or declared by such
corporation, joint stock company or association during any
year ending with the first day of November amount to more
than six per centum upon the par value of its capital stock,
then the tax to be at the rate of one quarter mill upon the capital stock for each one per centum of dividend so made or declared," etc.
The Home Insurance Company, a corporation of the State
of New York, having a capital stock of $3,000,000, declared a
dividend of ten per cent for the year 1881. During the year
1881 the company had part of its capital invested in United
States bonds, exempt from state taxation. The amount so invested changed from $3,300,000 to $1,940,000 in such bonds
during the year 1881. The company, in tendering payment of
its tax, claimed that so much of the laws of New York as required a tax to be paid upon the capital stock of the company,
without deducting from the amount so to be paid that part in-vested in bonds of the United States, was unconstitutional and

void. In an action brought to recover such unpaid portion of
the tax, the Supreme Court of New York, at general term, ad-

PLUMMER v. COLER.
Opinion of the Court.

judged that the company was liable to pay such tax; and this
judgment was affirmed by the Court of Appeals. The view of
those courts was that, the tax being upon the franchise of the
company, it mattered not how its capital stock or property may
be invested, whether in United States securities or otherwise.
N. . & Borme Insurance Co. v. New York, 92 N. Y. 328.
In M3onroe Scvings Bank v. Rochester, 37 N. Y. 365, it was
said:
"It is true that where a tax is laid upon the property of an
individual or a corporation, so much of their property as is
vested in United States bonds is to be treated, for the purposes
of assessment, as if it did not exist, but this rule can have no
application to an assessment upon a franchise, where a reference to property is made. only to ascertain the value of the
thing assessed. It is, however, argued with great ingenuity
and skill that, inasmuch as the plaintiffs, among other powers
given them, have the right to invest their moneys in United
States bonds, their franchises and privileges cannot be taxed by
the State. The power thus to invest their money, it is contended, is a franchise for lending to the United States, and
therefore cannot be taxed, because such taxation would trench
on the power of the United States to borrow. This is stretching the argument too far. It cannot be pretended that the
State would violate any obligation resulting from the power of
the United States to borrow money, if the law conferring the
power upon the plaintiff to invest their money in United States
stocks and bonds were repealed. The State is under no obligation, express or implied, to legislate to enhance the credit of
the general government, and should it adopt a system of legislation which indirectly produces such a result, its power of repeal cannot be doubted. The position, .that a franchise granted
by the bounty of the State is not taxable, because coupled with
that franchise is the privilege of loaning money to the general
government, is not more untenable than to argue that, because
such a franchise enhances the credit of the United States, therefore the legislature could not repeal the law granting the franchise without violating its constitutional obligation. Suppose
the legislature had limited the amount in which the plaintiff

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

could invest its money in the securities of the United States, it
will not be contended that such limitation would be void because it impaired the power of the United States to borrow
money. It must, therefore, be regarded as sound doctrine to
hold that the State, in granting a franchise to a corporation
may limit the powers to be exercised under it, and annex conditions to its enjoyment, and make it contribute to the revenues
of the State. If the grantee accepts the boon it must bear the
burden."
In AfXatter qf Sherman, 153 N. Y. 1, it was said by the Court
of Appeals of New York, per Chief Judge Andrews, that"This court has not been called upon to consider the question
of the power of the State to prescribe that in ascertaining the
value of the property of a decedent for the purpose of fixing
the tax, under the collateral inheritance or transfer tax laws,
the value of Federal securities owned by the decedent shall be
included. But we apprehend that the existence of the power
cannot be denied upon reason or authority. The tax imposed
is not, in a proper sense, a tax upon the property passing by
will, under the statutes of descents or distribution. It is a tax
upon the right of transfer by will, or under the intestate law
of the State. Whether these laws are regarded as a limitation
on the right of a testator to dispose of property by will, or
upon the right of devisees to take under a will, or the right
of heirs or next of kin to succeed to a property of an intestate,
is immaterial. The so-called tax is an exaction made by the
State in the regulation of the right of devolution of property of decedents, which is created by law, and which the
law may restrain or regulate. Whatever the form of the property, the right to succeed to it is created by law, and if the
property consists of government securities, the transferee derives his right to take them as he does his right to take any
other property of the decedent, under the laws of the State, and
the State by these statutes makes the right subject to the burden
imposed."
And in the case in hand, the very matter of complaint is
that the courts of the State of New York held that, under the
laws of that State, an inheritance tax can be validly assessed

PLUTMMER v. COLER.

Opinion of the Court.

against the entire estate of a decedent, although composed in
greater part of United States bonds; and the language of the
surrogate, affirmed by the Court of Appeals, was as follows:
"It is almost unnecessary to state that the theory on which
the courts have held this kind of security taxable is that the
tax is not upon the bonds themselves, but upon the transfer
thereof. This distinction is firmly established in this State.
See, besides the Sherman case, 2fatter of Xerriam, 141 N. Y.
479; Afatter of Bron8or, 150 N. Y. 1; and it seems to have
been recognized in the Supreme Court of 'the United -States,
163 U. S. 625, United States v. Perkins, in which .Matter of
JMerriamwas affirmed."
The decisions of the state courts may be summarized by the
statement that it is competent.for the legislature of a State to
impose a tax upon the franchises of the corporations of the
State, and upon the estates of decedents resident therein, and
in assessing such taxes and as a basis to establish the amount
of such assessments, to include the entire property of such
corporations and decedents, although composed, in whole or
in part, of United States bonds; and that the theory upon
which this can be done consistently with the Constitution and
laws of the United States is that such taxes are to be regarded
as imposed, not upon the property, the amount of which is referred to as regulating the amount of the taxes, but upon franchises and privileges derived from the State.
Let us now proceed to a similar survey of the Federal authorities on this subject.
.Xager v. Grima, 8 How. 490, was a case where, by the law
of Louisiana, a tax of 10 per cent was imposed on legacies,
when the legatee is neither a citizen of the United States nor
domiciled in that State, and the executor of the deceased or
other person charged with the administration of the estate
was directed to pay the tax to the state treasurer. Felix
Grima was the executor of John Mager, and retained the
amount of the tax in order to pay it over as the law directed.
Suit was brought by a legatee to recover it, upon the ground
that the act of Louisiana was repugmant to the Constitution of
the United States. The validity of the act was sustained by

OCTOBER TERI,

1899.

Opinion of the Court.

the state courts, and the cause was brought to this court. The
judgment of the state courts was here affirmed, and it was said,
in the opinion delivered by Chief Justice Taney:
"Now the law in question is nothing more than an exercise
of the power which every State and sovereignty possesses, of
regulating the manner and terms upon which property, real or
personal, within its dominion may be transmitted by last will
and testament, or by inheritance, and of prescribing who shall
and who shall not be capable of taking it. Every State or nation may unquestionably refuse to allow an alien to take, either
real or personal property, situated within its limits either as heir
or legatee, and may, if it thinks proper, direct that property so
descending or bequeathed shall belong to the State. In many
of the States of this Union at this day real property devised to
an alien is liable to escheat. And if a State may deny the privilege altogether, it follows that, when it grants it, it may annex
to the grant any conditions which it supposes to be required by
its interests or policy. This has been done by Louisiana. The
right to take is given to the alien, subject to a deduction of ten
per cent for the use of the State."
In Van, Allen v. The Assessors, 3 Wall. 573, it was held that
it was competent for Congress to authorize the States to tax
the shares of banking associations organized under the act of
June 3, 1864, without regard to the fact that a part or the
whole of the capital of such association was invested in national securities declared by the statutes authorizing them to
be "exempt from taxation by or under state authority." This
decision has ever since been acted upon, and its authority has
never been questioned by any court, and from it we learn that
there is no undeviating policy that, at all times and in all circumstances, the tax system of the States shall not extend to
Federal securities.
The next cases to be noted are: Society fo' Savings v. Coite,
6 Wall. 594; ProvidentInsurance Co. v. -Massachusetts,6 Wall.
611; and Hamilton Company v. Mfassachusetts, 6 Wall. 632.
In these cases this court affirmed the Supreme Courts of Connecticut and Iassachusetts in holding that state taxes may be
imposed, the amount of which may be determined by the ag-

PLUMMER v. COLER.
Opinion of the Court.

gregate amount of the property or capital stock of banking
and manufacturing companies, even if such property or capital stock includes United States bonds issued under a statute
declaring them exempt from taxation under state authority.
As we have already seen, when referring to the state decisions, the reasoning upon which the state courts proceeded in
the case of corporations was that such taxes were to be deemed
as laid, not upon the bonds as property, but upon the franchise
to do business as a corporation or association derived from the
State. This reasoning was approved by this court; and it may
be observed in passing that, as appears in the reports of the
arguments of counsel, the contention so strongly pressed in the
present case, namely, that under no form can Federal securities
be practically rendered by state legislation less valuable, was
fully argued. See also the case of Scoley v. Pew, 23 Wall.
331.
Next worthy of notice is the case of Home Insurance Company v. New I-ork, 134: U. S. 594. It came here on error to
the Supreme Court of the State of New York, whose judgment
had been affirmed by the Court of Appeals, and was twice
argued. The question considered was whether a statute of the
State of New York was valid in respect to imposing a tax upon
a New York corporation, measured and regulated by the amount
of its annual dividends, where those dividends were partly composed of*interest of United States bonds owned by the corporation.
As we have heretofore stated, the state courts answered this
question in the affirmative, basing their decision upon the proposition that the tax was imposed as a tax upon corporate franchises or privileges, and that such a tax was not invalidated by
the circumstance that the measure of its amount was fixed by
the amount of the annual dividends of the company partly derived from the interest of United States bonds. 92 N. Y. 328.
In this court the question was elaborately argued, as may be
seen in the first report of the case in 119 U. S.129; and it was
again contended that the case fell within the principle of public
policy that the States have no power, by taxation or otherwise,
to retard, impede, burden or in any manner control the opera-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

tions of the instrumentalities of the national government, and
also that the tax in question was repugnant to the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Constitution of the United States.
The reasoning of the state court was substantially approved
and their judgment, sustaining the validity of the state statute
was affirmed. Some of the observations of the opinion of the
court, delivered by Mr. Justice Field, may be appropriately
quoted:
"Looking now at the tax in this case, we are unable to perceive
that it falls within the doctrine of any of the cases cited, to
which we fully assent, not doubting their correctness in any
particular. It is not a tax in terms upon the capital stock of the
company, nor upon any bonds of the United States composing
a part of. that stock. The statutes designate it a tax upon the
'corporate franchise or business' of the company, and reference
is only made to its capital stock and dividends for the purpose
of determining the amount of the tax to be exacted each year.
"By the term ' corporate franchise or'business,' as here used,
we understand is meant (not referring to corporations sole,
which are not usually created for commercial business) the
right or privilege given by the State to two or more persons of
being a corporation, that is, of doing business in a corporate
capacity, and not the privilege or franchise which, when incorporated, the company may exercise. The right or privilege to
be a corporation, or to do business as such body, is one generally
deemed of value to the corporators, or it would not be sought
in such numbers as at present. It is a right or privilege, by
which several individuals may unite themselves under a common
name and act as a single person, with a succession of members,,
without dissolution or suspension of business, and with a limited
individual liability. The granting of such right or privilege
rests entirely in the discretion of the State, and, of course,
when granted, may be accompanied with such conditions as its
legislature may judge most befitting to its interests and policy.
It may require, as a condition of the grant of the franchise, and
also of its continued exercise, that the corporation pay a specific
sum to the State each year or month, or a specific portion of its
gross receipts, or of the profits of its business, or a sum to be

PLUMMER v. COLER.
Opinion of the Court.

ascertained in any convenient mode which it may prescribe.
The validity of the tax can in no way be dependent upon the
mode which the State may deem fit to adopt in fixing the
amount for any year, which it will exact for the franchise. -No
constitutional objection lies in the way of a legislative body
prescribing any mode of measurement to determine the amount
it will charge for the privilege it bestows. It may well seek in
this way to increase its revenue to the extent to which it has
been cut off by exemption of other property from taxation. As
its revenues to meet its expenses are lessened in one direction,
it may look to any other property as sources of revenue, which
is not exempt from taxation.

.

.

.

The tax in the present

case would not be affected if the nature of the property in
which the whole capital stock is invested were changed, and
put into real property or bonds of New York, or of other States.
From the very nature of the tax, being laid upon a franchise
given by the State, and revocable at pleasure, it cannot be affected in any way by the character of the property in which its
capital stock is invested. The power of the State over the corporate franchise and the conditions upon which it shall be exercised is as ample and plenary in the one case as in the other."
And, after citing and commenting upon the previous cases
from Connecticut and Massachusetts, the court said: "In this
case we hold as well upon general principles as upon the authority of the first two cases cited from 6 Wallace, that the tax
for which the suit is brought is not a tax upon the capital stock
or property of the company, but upon its corporate franchise,
and is not therefore subject to the objection stated by counsel,
because a portion of its capital stock is investedin securities of
the United States."
In United Statmes v. Perkins, 163 U. S. 625, the question was
whether personal property bequeathed by will to the United
States was subject to an inheritance tax under the law of the
State of New York.
The facts of the case were that one William W. Merriam, a
resident of the State of New York, left a last will and testament, by which he devised and bequeathed all his estate, real
and personal, to the United States. The surrogate assessed an
VOL. CLXXIII-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

inheritance tax of $3964.23 upon the personal property included
in said bequest. Upon appeal to the general term of the Supreme Court the order of the Surrogate's Court was affirmed,
and upon a further appeal to the Court of Appeals the judgment of the Supreme Court was affirmed, and the cause was
brought to this court.
It was contended that, upon principle, property of the United
States was not subject to state taxation; but it was held by this
court, affirming the judgment of the courts below, that the tax
was not opeh to the objection that it was an attempt to tax the
property of the United States, since the tax was imposed upon
the legacy before it reached the hands of the legatee; tba the
legacy became the property of the United States after it had
suffered a diminution to the amount of the tax, and that it was
only upon such a condition that the legislature assented to a
bequest of it.
The reasoning of the court may be manifested by the following excerpts from the opinion delivered by Mr. Justice Brown:
"Though the general consent of the most enlightened nations
has from the earliest historical period recognized a natural right
in children to inherit the property of their parents, we know of
no legal principle to prevent the legislature from taking away
or limiting the right of testamentary disposition, or imposing
such conditions upon its exercise as it may deem conducive to
public good. In this view the so-called inheritance tax of the
State of New York is in reality a limitation upon the power of
a testator to bequeath his property to whom he pleases; a declaration that, in the exercise of that power, he shall contribute
a certain percentage to the public use; in other words, that the
right to dispose of his property by will shall remain, but subject to a condition that the State has a right to impose. Certainly, if it be true that the right of testamentary disposition is
purely statutory, the State has a right to require a contribution
to the public treasury before the bequest shall take effect. Thus
the tax is not upon the property, in the ordinary sense of the
term, but upon the right to dispose of it, and it is not until it
has yielded its contribution to the State that it becomes the
property of the legatee. This was the view taken of a similar

PLUMMER v. COLER.
Opinion of the Court.

tax by the Court of Appeals of Maryland in State v. -Dalrymple,
70 Maryland, 294, in which the court observed:
"' Possessing, then, the plenary power indicated, it necessarily follows that the State in allowing property to be disposed
of by will, and in designating who shall take such property
where there is no will, may prescribe such conditions, not in
conflict with or forbidden by the organic law, as the legislature
may deem expedient. These conditions, subject to the limitations named, are, consequently, wholly within the discretion of
the general assembly. The act we are now considering plainly
intended to require that a person taking the benefit of a civil
right secured to him under our law should pay a certain premium for its enjoyment. In other words, one of the conditions
upon which strangers and collateral kindred may acquire a decedent's property, which is subject to the dominion of our laws,
is, that there shall be paid out of such property a tax of two
and a half per cent into the treasury of the State. This, therefore, is not a tax upon the property itself, but is merely the price
exacted by the State for the privilege accorded in permitting
property so situated to be transferred by will or by descent or
distribution.'
"That the tax is not a tax upon the property itself, but upon
its transmission by will or by descent, is also held both in New
York and in several other States, Hatter of the Estate of Swift,
137 N. Y. 77, in which it is said that the ' effect of this special
tax is to take from the property a portion, or percentage of it,
for the use of the State, and I think it quite immaterial whether
the tax can be precisely classified with a taxation of property
or not. It is not a tax on persons.' 3fatter of Hoffman, 143
N. Y. 237; Schoofeld's Executor v. -Lynchburg,78 Virginia,
366 ; Strode v. Commonwealth, 52 Penn. St. 181 ; In re Cullum,
145 N. Y. 593. In this last case, as well as in Wallace v. fyers,
38 Fed. Rep. 184, it was held that, although the property of
the decedent included United States bonds, the tax might be
assessed upon the basis of their value, because the tax was not
imposed upon the bonds themselves, but upon the estate of the
decedent, or the privilege of acquiring property by inheritance.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

Eyre v. ,aao, 14 Grattan, 422 ; Dos Passos on Inheritance Tax
Law, chap. 2, and cases cited.
"Such a tax was also held by this court to be free from any
constitutional objection in Xager v. Grima, 8 How. 490, Mr.
Chief Justice Taney remarking that 'the law in question is
nothing more than the exercise of the power which every State
and sovereignty possesses, of regulating the manner and terms
under which property, real and personal, within its dominion
may be transferred by last will or testament, or by inheritance,
and of prescribing who shall and who shall not be capable of
taking it. . . . If a State may deny the privilege altogether, it follows that when it grants it, it may annex to the
grant any conditions which it supposes to be required by its interests or policy.' To the same effect is United States v. Fox,
94: U. S. 315.
"We think it follows from this that the act in question is
not open to the objection that it is an attempt to tax the property of the United States, since the tax is imposed upon the
legacy before it reaches the hands of the government The
legacy becomes the property of the United States only after it
has suffered a diminution to the amount of the tax, and it is
only upon this condition that the legislature assents to a bequest of it."
One of the propositions recognized in that case applicable to
the present one is that a state tax that would be invalid if imposed directly on a legacy to the United States, may be valid
if the amount of the tax is taken out of the legacy before it
reaches the hands of the government-the theory of such a
view apparently being that the property rights of the government do not attach until after the tax has been paid, or until
the condition imposed by the tax law of the State has been
complied with. Such is also the case in respect to the legacy
to Ella Plummer Brown, as the statute in-question distinctly
makes it the duty of the executor to pay the amount of the tax
before the legacy passes to the legatee.
In .ew York v. Roberts, 171 U. S. 658, an effort was made
to have a tax imposed against corporations based upon "capital employed within the State" declared invalid, in that partic-

PLUMMER v. COLER.
Opinion of the Court.

ular case, because a portion of such capita! consisted of imported
goods in original packages; and this court said:
"Again it is said that, assuming that the importation of
crude drugs and their sale in the original packages constituted
a portion of the corporate business, no tax could be imposed
by the State under the doctrine of Brown v. i2aryland,
12 Wheat. 419. But that case is inapplicable. Here no tax is
sought to be imposed directly on imported articles or on their
sale. This is a tax imposed on the business of a corporation,
consisting in the storage and distribution of various kinds of
goods, some products of their own manufacture and some imported articles. From the very nature of the tax, being laid as
a tax upon the franchise of doing business as a corporation, it
cannot be affected in any way by the character of the property
in which its capital stock is invested."
In Aagoun v. IllinoisTrust & Savings Bank,170 U. S. 283, the
validity of the inheritance tax law of Illinois was assailed because
of inequalities and discriminations so great as to amount to a
deprivation of property and to a denial of the equal protection
of the laws. The law in question had been upheld by the
Supreme Court of the State in thecase of Koeherspergerv.Drake,
167 Illinois, 122, hereinbefore referred to.
This court held that the law was one within the competency
of the legislature of the State to make, and that it did not conflict in anywise with the provisions of the Constitution of the
United States. In the course of the discussion, Mr. Justice
McKenna, who delivered the opinion of the court, said:
"The constitutionality of inheritance taxes has been declared
and the principles upon which they are based explained in
United States v. Perkins, 163 U. S. 325; Strode v. Commonwealth, 52 Penn. St. 181; _n re Jerriam, 141 N. Y. 479;
.Ainot v. Winthrop, 162 Mass. 113; and in Sciwley v. J2ew,
23 Wall. 331.
"It is not necessary to review these cases, or state at length
the reasoning by which they are supported. They are based on
two principles: 1. An inheritance tax is not one on property,
but one on the succession. 2. The right to take property by
devise or descent is the creature of the law, and not a natural

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

right or privilege, and therefore the authority which confers it
may impose conditions upon it. From these principles it is
deduced that the States may tax the privilege, discriminate between relatives, and between these and strangers, and grant
exemptions; and are not precluded from this power by the provisions of the respective state constitutions requiring uniformity
and equality of taxation."
In closing our review of the Federal decisions the case of
TVallace v. .Ayers, 38 Fed. Rep. 184, may be properly referred
to, especially as it has been cited with approval by this court in
United States v. Perkins, 163 U. S. 625, 629.
The question involved was the very one we are now considering, namely, the validity of the inheritance tax law of the
State of New York when applied to a legacy consisting of
United State bonds. In his opinion Circuit Judge Wallace reviewed many of the state and Federal decisions heretofore referred to, and reached the conclusion that the tax was to be
regarded as imposed, not on the bonds, but upon the privilege
of acquiring property by will or inheritance, and that where
the property of the decedent included United States bonds, the
tax may be assessed upon the basis of their value.
We think the conclusion, fairly to be drawn from the state
aid Federal cases, is, that the right to take property by will or
descent is derived from and regulated by municipal law; that,
in assessing a tax upon such right or privilege, the State may
lawfully measure or fix the amount of the tax by referring to the
value of the property passing; and that the incidental fact that
such property is composed, in whole or in part, of Federal securities, does not invalidate the tax or the law under which it
is imposed.
Passing from the authorities, let us briefly consider some of
the arguments advanced in the able and interesting brief filed
in behalf of the plaintiff in error.
The propositions chiefly relied on are, first, that an inheritance tax, if assessed upon a legacy or interest composed of
United States bonds, is within the very letter of the United
States statute which declares that such bonds "shal l be exempt
from taxation in any form by or under state, municipal or local

PLUMMER v. COLER.
Opinion of the Court.

authority ;" and, second, that the tax in question is unconstitutional, because impairing and burdening the borrowing power
of the United States.
But if the first proposition is sound and decisive of the question in this case, then it must follow that the cases in which this
court has held that, in assessing a tax upon corporate franchises,
tbe amount of such a tax may be based upon the entire property
or capital possessed by the corporation even when composed
in whole or in part of United States bonds, must be overruled.
Plainly in those cases, as in this, there was taxation inaform,
and in them as in this the amount of the tax was reached by
including in the assessment United States bonds.
So that we return to the authorities, by which it has been
established that a tax upon a corporate franchise, or upon the
privilege of taking under the statutes of wills and of descents,
is a tax not upon United States bonds if they happen to compose a part of the capital of a corporation or a part of the property of a decedent, but upon rights and privileges created and
regulated by the State.
The second proposition relied on, namely, that to permit taxation of the character we are considering would operate as a burden upon the borrowing power of the United States, cannot be
so readily disposed of. Still, we think, some observations can
be made which will show that the mischief, which it is claimed
will follow if such statutes be sustained as valid, is by no means
so great or important as supposed.
And here, again, it is obvious that to affirm the second proposition will require an overruling of our previous cases. For,
on principle, if a tax on inheritances, composed in whole or in
part of Federal securities, would, by deterring individuals from
investing therein, and, by thus lessening the demand for such
securities, be regarded as therefore unlawful, it must likewise
follow that, for the same reasons, a tax upon corporate franchises
measured by the value of the corporation's property, composed
in whole or in part of United States bonds, would also be unlawful.
To escape from this conclusion, it is contended, in the argument of the plaintiff in error, that, conceding that such taxes

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

may be valid as imposed on corporate franchises, and permitting our decisions in such cases to stand, yet that the case of
the estates of decedents is different; that individual persons
will be driven to consider, when making their investments,
whether they can rely on their legatees or heirs receiving
United States bonds unimpaired by state action in the form of
taxation; and that if it should be held by this court that such
taxation is lawful, capital would not be invested in United States
bonds on terms as favorable as if we were to hold otherwise.
This is only to state the proposition over again. For, if it
were our duty to hold that taxation of inheritances, in the cases
where United States bonds pass, is unlawful because it might
injuriously affect the demand for such securities, it would equally
be our duty to condemn all state laws which would deter those
who form corporations from investing any portion of the corporate property in United States bonds.
In fact, the mischief, if it exists at all and is not merely fanciful, might be supposed to be much greater in the case of state
laws taxing franchises than the case of taxing the estates of
decedents. So small now is the income derivable from Federal
securities that few individuals, and those only of great wealth,
can afford to invest in them; and the demand for them is mostly
confined to banking associations and to large trading and manufacturing companies which invest their surplus in securities
that can be readily and quickly converted into cash. Moreover,
no inconsiderable portion of the United States loans is taken
and held, as every one knows, in foreign countries, where doubtless it is subjected to municipal taxation.
While we cannot take judicial notice of the comparative portions of the government securities held by individuals, by corporations and bv foreigners, we still may be permitted to perceive that the mischief to our national credit, so feelingly
deplored in the briefs, caused by state taxation upon estates of
decedents, would be inappreciable, and too remote and uncertain
to justify us now in condemning the tax system of the State of
INew York.
It is further contended that there is a vital difference between
the individual and the corporation; that the individual exists.

PLUMMER v. COLER.
Opinion of the Court.,

and carries on his operations under natural power and of common right, while the corporation is an artificial being, created
by the State and dependent upon the State for the continuance
of its existence, and subject to regulations and to the imposition
of burdens upon it by the State, not at all applicable to natura.
persons.
Without undertaking to go beyond what has already been
decided by this court in 31ager v. Griima, 8 How. 490, in Scholey v. ]?ew, 23 Wall. 331, and in United States v. I-Ierkins, 163
U. S. 625, and in the other cases heretofore cited, we may regard it as established that the relation of the individual citizen
and resident to the State is such that his right, as the owner of
property, to direct its descent by will, or by permitting its descent to be regulated by the statute, and his right, as legatee,
devisee or heir, to receive the property of his testator or ancestor, are rights derived from and regulated by the State, and
we are unable to perceive any sound distinction that can be
drawn between the power of the State in imposing taxes upon
franchises of corporations, composed of individual persons, and
in imposing taxes upon the right or privilege of individuals to
avail themselves of the right to grant and to receive property
under the statutes regulating the descent of the property of
decedents. And, at all events, the mischief apprehended, of
impairing the borrowing power of the government by state taxation, is the same whether that taxation be imposed upon corporate franchises or upon the privilege created and regulated
by the statutes of inheritance.
Again, it is urged that the pecuniary amount of the state tax
which is to be set aside is of no legal consequence; that any
amount, however inconsiderable, is an interference with the
constitutional rights of the United States, and must therefore
be annulled by the judgment of this court. Of course, nobody
would attempt to affirm that an unconstitutional tax could be
sustained by claiming that, in a particular case, the tax was
insignificant in amount.
But when the effort is made, as is the case here, to establish
the unconstitutional character of a particular tax by claiming

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

that its remote effect will be to impair the borrowing power of
the government, courts in overturning statutes, long established
and within the ordinary sphere of state legislation, ought to
have something more substantial to act upon than mere conjecture. The injury ought to be obvious and appreciable. It may
be opportune to mention that, even while we have been considering this case, the United States government has negotiated a
public loan of large amount at a lower rate of interest than ever
before known. From this it may be permissible to infer that
the existence of legislation, whether state or Federal, including
Federal securities as part of the mass of private property subject
to inheritance taxes, has not practically injured or impaired the
borrowing power of the government.
The contention of the plaintiff in rror that taxation of the
estates of dece'dents, in any form, and however slight, is invalid,
if United States bonds are included in the appraisement, seems
'to be unreasonable. Suppose a decedent's estate consisted wholly
of United States securities, could it reasonably be claimed that
the charges and expenses of administration, imposed under the
laws of the State, would not be payable out of the funds of the
estate? If the estate were a small one, such expenses might
require the applibation of all the Federal securities. If the estate were a large one, the expenses attendant upon adininistration would be proportionately large, to be raised out of the
Federal securities. It is not sufficient to say that such expenses
are in the nature of statutory debts, and that the question of
the exemption of United States bonds cannot arise until after
the debts of the estate shall have been paid. For, after all,
what is an inheritance tax bat a debt exacted by the State for
protection afforded during the lifetime of the decedent? It is
often impracticable to secure from living persons their fair
share of contribution to maintain the administration of the
State, and such laws seem intended to enable to secure payment
from the estate of the citizen when his final account is settled
with the State. Nor can it be readily supposed that such obligations can be evaded or defeated by the particular form in
which the property of the decedent was invested.

MURDOCK v. WARD.
Siatement of the Case.

Upon the whole, we think that the decision of the courts below was correct, and the judgment is therefore
Affrmed.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE dissented.
MR.JUSTICE PECKTA took no part in the decision.

WARD.
MURDOCK ,v.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN I)ISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 458. Argued December 5,6,7,1899. -Decided May 14, 1900.
Knowlton v. Moore, ante, 41, followed in this case as to the points there
decided.
Plummer v. Coler, ante, 115, affirmed and followed in this case.
As the parties below proceeded upon a mutual mistake of law in construing
and applying the statute the court thinks that the practical injustice
that might result from an affirmance of the judgment may be avoided by
reversing it at the cost of the*plaintiff in error, and sending the cause back
to the Circuit Court, with directions to proceed therein according to law.

IN October, 1899, George T. Iurdock, as executor of the last
will and testament of Jane H. Sherman, brought an action in
the Supreme Court of the State of New York, agaiiist John G.
Ward, collector of internal revenue for the fourteenth district
of the State of New York, wherein the plaintiff s6ught to recover
the sum of $36,827.53, which the plaintiff alleged had been
unlawfully exacted from him as executor of said estate.
On petition of the defendant, the cause was removed into the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of
New York.
The complaint contained the following allegations:
"L Jane H. Sherman, late of the village of Port Henry, in
the county of Essex and State of New York, died on about the
30th day of September, 1898, leaving certain property, and also
leaving a last will and testament, in and by which said will this

