HIGH v. COYNE.
Statement of the Case.

a husband or wife, is taxed at the progressive rate stated in the
act of Congress. I do not think the act can be otherwise interpreted without defeating the intent of Congress.
Construed as I have indicated, the act is not liable to any
constitutional objection.

HIGH v. COYNE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 2-5

Argued December 5, 5, 7, 1899.-Decided May 14, 1900.

The assignments of error in this case raised only the constitutionality of
the taxes sought to be recovered, which has just been decided adversely
to the plaintiffs in error in Knowlton v. Moore, ante, 41, and there is nothing
in the record to enable the court to see that the statute was mistakingly
construed bythe collector; but as the interpretation of the statute which
was adopted and enforced by the officers administering the law was the
one held to be unsound in Knowlton v. Moore, the ends of justice require
that the right to resist so much of the tax as may have arisen from the
wrong interpretation of the statute should not be foreclosed by the decree of this court.

THE complainants, who are appellants here, filed their bill to
enjoin the executrix of their father's estate from paying the legacy taxes levied by sections 29 and 30 of the War Revenue Act
of 1898. The collector of internal revenue was also made a
defendant, and an injunction was asked against him to prevent
his collecting or attempting to collect the taxes in question,
which, it was asserted, he was about to enforce against the executrix, who, it was averred, would pay unless by the writ of
injunction she was forbidden to do so. As heirs of their father
and as beneficiaries of his estate, the complainants asserted they
were entitled to prevent the executrix from maling payment of
taxes which were unconstitutional and hence void. The reasons
relied on to show that the taxing law was repugnant to the Constitution of the United States were that the taxes were direct
and not apportioned, were not uniform and were levied on ob-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

jects beyond'the scope of the authority of Congress. The bill
was demurred to as nob stating ground for relief. The demurrers were sustained, and from a decree dismissing the suit this
appeal is prosecuted.
Mi'. A. X. Pence and -Yr. John G. Carlisle for appellants.
Mr. George A. Carpenterand -Yr. Shirley T. High were on Mr.
Pence's brief.
XAr. Solicitor Generalfor appellees. He also filed a brief on
the question submitted by the court referred to in the previous
cases.
MR. JUsTIcE WHITE delivered the opinion of the court.

As the court below did not grant an injunction, but dismissed
the bill, it is unnecessary to consider whether the right would
have existed to enjoin the collector of internal revenue even had
the court concluded that the averments of the bill disclosed a
cause of action. Rev. Stat. 3226.
Every ground relied on to maintain that the taxes levied by
sections 29 and 30 of the War Revenue Act are repugnant to
the Constitution has been decided adversely in the opinion this
day announced in -Knowltonv. .Jfoore.
This disposes of this case, as the assignments of error raised
only the constitutionality of the taxes, and there is nothing in
the record to enable us to see that the statute was, by the collector, mistakingly construed.
As, however, the interpretation of the statute, which was held
to be unsound in No. 387, was the one which was adopted and
enforced by the officers charged with the administration of the
law, the impression naturally arises that such erroneous construction must have been applied in assessing the tax in controversy. The ends of justice therefore require that the right to
resist so much of the tax as may have arisen from the wrong
interpretation of the statute above referred to be not foreclosed
by our decree.
-Decreeaffirmed, without prejudice to any such right.

