MOFFETT, HODGKINS &c. CO. v. ROCHESTER.

373

Syllabus.

$2-25, with interest from June 30,1888, less the sum of $521.78,
with interest from the same date; the costs of the Circuit Court
of Appeals to be paid by defendant in error therein; and the
costs in the Circuit Court to be adjusted as to that court may
seem just under the circumstances.

Ordred accordingy.

MOFFETT, HODGKINS AND CLARKE COMPANY
v. ROCHESTER.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 217. Argued April 10, 11, 1900.-Decided May 21, 1900.

The city of Rochester invited proposals from contractors for two separate
contracts for work to be don6 for the improvement of its water works.
Among others who bid were the petitioners, the Moffett, etc. Company,
who put in bids for each. Owing to causes which are set forth in full
in the opinion of the court, some serious mistakes were made in the
figures in their proposals, whereby the compensation that they would receive if their bids were accepted and the work performed by them would
be diminished many thousand dollars. When the bids were opened by
the city government their bids were the first opened, and as they were
read aloud their engineer noticed the errors and called attention to them
and stated what the figures were intended to be and should be. The statutes of New York provided that "neither the principal nor sureties on any
bid or bond shall have the right to withdraw or cancel the same until
the board shall have let the contract for which such bid is made and the
same shall have been duly executed." The city government rejected one
of their bids and accepted the other, and called for its performance at the
prices stated in the bid. The company declined to enter into a contract
for the performance of the work at that price; and, claiming that the
city threatened to enforce the bond given with the proposals, brought
suit praying for a reformation of the proposals to conform to the asserted intention in making them and their execution as reformed, or their
rescission; and for an injunction against the. officers of the city, restraining them from declaring the complainant in default, and from forfeiting
or enforcing its bond. Judgment was rendered in the Circuit Court in
the company's favor, which was reversed in the Circuit Court of Appeals. The case was then brought here on certiorari. Held:

374

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

(1) That there was no dodbt of the mistake on the part of the company;
(2) That there was a prompt declaration of it as soon as it was discovered;
(3) That when this was done the transaction had not reached the degree
. of a contract.
The party alleging a mistake must show exactly in what it consists and
the correction that should be made. The evidence must be such as to
leave no reasonable doubt on the uind of the court as to either of these
points. The mistake must be mutual and common to both parties to the
instrument. It must appear that both have done what neither intended.
'A mistajEe on one side may be a ground for rescinding, but not for reforming a contract. Where the minds of the parties have not met there
is nd contract, and hence none to be rectified. Hearnev.MarineIns. Co.,
20 WalL 488, cited on these points aid approved.
THis suit grows out of alleged errors in the proposals of the

complainant for the execution of certain improvements conducted
by the city of Rochester, New York.
The proposals of the complainant were accepted, but it declined to enter into a contract in accordance therewith, on the
grounds hereafter stated, and the city., it is claimed, threatened
to enforce the bond given with the proposals.
The bill prays for a reformation of the proposals to conform
to the asserted intention in making them and their execution as
reformed, or their rescission. .Also an injunction against the
officers of the city declaring complainant in default, its bond
forfeited or enforced.
The substance of the bill is that the city of Rochefter, through
its proper executive board, determined to make improvements
and extensions in the city's water works, and, among other
things, to construct a masonry conduit for a distance of 12,000
feet from Hemlock Lake northward, and proposed to enter into
a contract therefor. The contract was known as contract
No. 1.
Also, to construct a riveted steel pipe conduit thirty-eight
inches or forty inches in diameter, commencing at the north
end of the masonry conduit, and terminating at Mount Hope
reservoir, in the city; length, about 140,000 feet. The contract
was known as contract No. 2.
Voluminous specifications were prepared by the city, in
printed form, aggregating about three hundred printed pages,

MOFFETT, HODGKINS &c. CO. v. ROCHESTER.

375

Statement of the Case.

elaborately specifying, with infinite detail, the requirements of
the executive board, the method in which the work was to be
performed, the character of the materials required to be furnished, and the tests to which the materials were'to be subjected. A copy of the schedule, with other schedules, was attached to the bill.
On 1December 10, 1892, public notice was given to contractors
that proposals would be received for such work until 12 o'clock
noon of December 23, 1893, at which time the bids wvere to be
publicly opened by the chairman of the executive board.
The complainant was a contractor having an office in New
York, and ehployed engineers to prepare proposals of the character contemplated by the city of Rochester, and complainant's
officers were engaged in important and distracting occupations,
and connected with other business which required them to delegate the duties ordinarily performed by them in connection with
the .work, such as described, to their subordinates. The agents
of complainants, though they exercised due diligence, were unable to procure the forms of the proposals for such contracts
until on or about the 15th of December, 1892, and its engineer
proceeded to Rochester on the 20th of December, 1892, having
attempted ii the meantime to familiarize himself with the terms
of such contracts, and there conferred with the engineers of the
city, visited the line of the proposed conduit, and proceeded
with the preparation of the proposals of the contracts Nos. 1
and 2.
The labor devolving upon him in the period of time allowed
him for preparing the proposals made him nervous and confused,
and in transcribing the figures prepared by him he accidentally
made certain clerical errors.
Contract No. 2 submitted for consideration two routes, over.
8000 feet of the 140,000 of the proposed steel conduit. They
were respectively designated in the proposals and specifications
route "A" and route "B," and the city reserved the right of
electing either of them, and further electing to require a thirtyeight inch pipe or a forty inch pipe to be furnished by contractors.
Route "A's was located in alluvial flats through which the

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

creek meanders, and involved several crossings of its existing
and former channels. Route "B" was located wholly west of
the creek, and required the construction of a tunnel with the
necessary shafts, inlet and overflow chambers, manholes and
their appurtenances.
The specifications of route "A-" involved sixty-one different
items and quantities of work and materials, route "B "teventyfive. Among the items of route "B" was that known as "d,"
and described in the specifications as follows:
"For all earth excavations in open trenches or pits, for the
masonry and pipe conduit, entrance and overflow chambers,
gate vaults, blow offs, pipe overflows, bridges, railroad crossings,
creek crossings and culverts carried under said conduit, including bracing and sheeting, back filling of trenches and masonry,
making embankments and other final disposal of the excavated
material with haul of 1000 feet or less, bailing and Araining
and all incidental work."
That item in route "A" was in precisely the same language,
and the quantity of excavation contemplated by said items was
184,000 cubic feet of earth, and referred to precisely the same
work. The complainant and its engineer intended to bid for
.said work the sum of 70 cents per cubic yard, and which sum
was a fair and reasonable price for the work, and such sum was
inserted in the proposal for route "A," but by accident and mistake 50 cents was inserted in the proposal for route "B," and
the price intended to be proposed therefor was some $36,800.
The sum of 50 cents per cubic yard was a wholly insufficient
price for such work. The proposal in route "B" also contained an item in the following language, to wit: "' h.' For
all earth excavation in tunnel, including all necessary bracing,
timbering, lighting, ventilating, removal and back filling and
other final disposal of the excavated material with haul of
1000 feet or less, pumping, bailing and draining and all incidental work."
The defendants' engineer estimated the quantity of excava-tion under this item at 2000 cubic yards, and it was intended
to charge for such work $15 per cubic yard, which was a fair
and reasonable charge. In haste and confusion the engineer,

MOFFETT, HODGKINS &c. CO. v. ROCHESTER.

37

Statement of the Case.

who is extremely near sighted, in transcribing his figures, by
accident and mistake inserted the sum of $1.50 per cubic yard,
which was grossly inadequate and far below what would be the
actual cost of the work under the most favorable circumstances.
The difference between the bid as inserted and that which was
intended to be inserted was the sum of $27,000.
A bond was required with proposals in the penal sum of
$90,000, conditioned upon the performance of the work if the
bid should be accepted and the making of the contract with
the city in accordance with the notice to contractbrs. Complainant executed the bond with Henry D. Lyman and the
American Surety Company as sureties, but at the time of its
execution the proposal -annexed thereto was entirely in blank,
and in the time which elapsed between the time the bond was
taken to the city and the presentation of the proposals it was
impossible to insert in the pamphlet containing the bond the
proposals for the work contemplated by contracts Nos. 1 and 2,
or either of them.
The prices were inserted in other and different pamphlets of
the same general character, but were not signed or in any way
executed by complainant or by any of its officers. The pamphlets containing the bond and the pamphlet containing the proposals were placed in a single package.
The complainant was led to believe by the defendants and
their officers that although the masonry conduit and the riveted steel conduit were separately described, they constituted
a continuous piece of work, and any person bidding upon both
sections whose bid was lower in the aggregate than any other
for the same work should be awarded the contract. With this
understanding and for the purpose of making a single proposition for the entire work, complainant deposited the package containing the proposals for the work upon both sections with the
executive board. The notice to contractors provided that every
bid for the masonry conduit should be indorsed "Proposal for
performing contract No. 1, Rochester .Water Works Conduit,"
and that every bid for the riveted steel pipe conduit should be
inclosed in a sealed envelope and indorsed "Proposal for performing of contract No. 2, Rochester Water Works Conduit."

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

Complainant did not comply with the provisions, but addressed
its proposals in one package to the executive board. The proposals were immediately opened by the chairman of the board
and declared informal, and not in compliance with the requirements of the board, but they were nevertheless read together
with other proposals. That for line "B," in contract No. 2, was
read by the clerk in the presence of the members of the board
before any other proposals for work on said line were read, and
immediately upon reading item "d," relating to earth excavation in open trenches, the engineer of complainant, who prepared the proposals, informed the board that the price of fifty
cents per cubic, yard was a clerical error, and that it was the
intention to charge seventy-five cents per cubic yard, the same
price charged for the identical work on line "A."
There were six bidders on contract No. 1, including complainant. Its bid was $473,790. The lowest bidder was W. H. Jones
& Son, whose bid was $262,518.
The bids on contract No. 2, with items, were tabulated in a
statement and annexed to the bill.
The complainant's bid on earth excavation, in open trench on
route "A," was 70 cents per cubic yard. The other bids ranged
from 75 cents to 85 cents.
For the same work on route "B" complainant's bid was 50
cents per cubic yard. The other bids from 75 cents to 85 cents.
The complainant's bid for earth excavations in tunnel upon
route- "B," contract No. 2, was $1.50 per cubic yard. The
other bids were, respectively, $12.00 and $15.00.
The complainant's aggregate bid for work on route "B"
was $857,552.50. The lowest was $1,130,195.00, that of Whitmore, Rauber & Co.
If complainant was allowed the amount of its error, viz.,
$63,800, its proposal for route "B" would be $921,354.50, which
sum was $208,842.50 less than the next lowest bid, which was
that of Whitmore, Rauber & Vicinus.
The aggregate bids of complainant as corrected were
$1,395,142.50, which were considerably less than the aggregate
of any other contractor. For thirty-eight inch pipe on line "B"

MOFFETT, HODGKINS &c. CO. v. ROCHESTER.

379

Statement of the Case.

its aggregate bid was $1,331,342.50, which was largely below
that of any other contractor.
In order to take an improper and unconscionable advantage
of complainant and the clerical errors made by it, the executive
board on the 10th of January, 1893, notified complainant that
the defendants intended to enter into a contract for the work
of contract No. 1 with W. H. Jones & Son, although complainant's proposals for the work on both contracts were the lowest
in the aggregate for the entire work contemplated. Thereupon
on the 11th of January, 1893, before any official action with
respect to letting the contracts was taken, complainant protested against the division of the proposals and letting the work
of contract No. I and No. 2 separately, and insisted that the
defendants were bound to enter into a contract with it for the
entire work described in both contracts, or none at all, and
informed the defendants of the clerical errors for the work on
line "B," and requested to correct them. And further demanded
the contract for both sections at the corrected prices, or that it
be permitted to withdraw its proposals.
On the 12th of January, 1893, the executive board, acting in
bad faith and to take an unfair and unconscionable advantage
of the clerical errors which had been committed, the commission of which the defendants conceded, adopted the resolution
annexed to the bill and marked schedule "B," and caused copies
to be served on the complainant.
The defendant proposed, in conformity with the resolutions,
to insist upon the execution of the contract for laying a thirtyeight inch pipe on route "B" for the prices inserted in complainant's proposal, and intended, if complainant refused, to
declare it in default, the bond executed by it forfeited, and to
proceed to enforce the bond.
The said threatened action was contrary to good conscience,
the contents of the proposals and the rights of complainant, and
unless restrained, would cause it irreparable injury, for which
there was no adequate remedy at law. The matter in dispute,
exclusive of interest and cost, exceeded the sum or value of
$2,000.
The following are the resolutions marked schedule "B":

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.
rOFFICE OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD,

S" ROCHESTER, N. Y., January 12, 1893.

"By Mr. Schroth:
"Resolved, That the proposal of the Moffett, Hodgkins & Clarke
Company, of New York, N. Y., submitted on December 23,1892,
for the construction of a riveted steel pipe conduit 38 inches iii
diameter, and all the required appurtenances thereto, commencing at the north end of the contemplated masonry conduit
near the village of Hemlock Lake, Livingston County, N. Y.,
and terminating at Mt. Hope reservoir, in the city of Rochester,
N. Y., and by route ' B' as described in the notice of letting for
said work, be, and the same is hereby, accepted, and that said
work be and hereby is awarded to said Moffett, Hodgkins &
Clarke Company.
"By Mr. Schroth:
.'Resolved, That the -offett, Hodgkins & Clarke Company,
of New York, be and they are herewith required to attend at the
office of this board, along with the sureties to be offered by said
company, on or before Thursday, January 19, 1893, and to
execute at that time the contract for the performance of the
work of constructing a riveted steel pipe conduit 38 inches in
diameter, and all the required appurtenances thereto, by route
' B,' from the north end of the contemplated masonry conduit
near the village of Hemlock Lake, Livingston County, N. Y.,
to Mt. Hope reservoir in the city of Rochester, N. Y., and that
the failure of such attendance and execution will be regarded
as an abandonment of intention on the part of said Moffett,
Hodgkins & Clarke Company to perform said work.
"By Mr. Schroth:
"Resolved, That the clerk be, and he is hereby, directed to
cause immediate legal service of notice of award of contract to
be made on the Moffett, Hodgkins & Clarke Company, of
New York, N. Y., in accordance with the foregoing resolutions."
The answer admitted the allegations of the bill in regard to
the powers of the executive board, and that it determined -to
enter into a contract set forth in the bill; that it prepared spec-

MOFFETT, HODGKINS &c. CO. v. ROCHESTER.

381

Statement of the Case.

ifications and gave notice as stated, and required bond to accompany proposals conditioned as alleged; that the complainant
had such bond executed. -and annexed the same to its proposal
of contract No. 2.
The answer alleged that the defendants did not know and
could not set forth their belief or otherwise whether complainant was a corporation or employed engineers, or what their
duties were, or that the officers of the complainant had to delegate important duties to subordinates, or whether its agents
could procure firms to contract and make proposals before the
15th of December, 1892; or whether its engineer was nervous
or made mistakes as alleged or in the way alleged, or the prices
'bid were inadequate, or that complainant was led to believe by
the defendants that 'ontracts Nos. 1 and 2 would be let jointly
and'n6t separately, or. its bid declared informal and cannot be
received, or that its engineer when the bids were opened noti°fied the-board that the prices which had been read for item
"d" of 'route "B" in contract No. 2 of fifty cents per cubic
yard was a clerical error.
The answer then proceeded in substance as follows:
The notice for bids required that all bids should state the
prices for every separate item of work named in the proposals,
should be plainly stated and distinctly written in ink, both in
words and figures, in the proposed blanks left therefor; tlat
the complainant's engineer received all communications requested by him from the executive board and its engineer, and
all the plans and specifications and information were at the
complainant's command before its submission of the proposals
for the contract.
On account of the treacherous subsoil disclosed by borings
along route "B" in contract No. 2, the latter route would be
the least expensive, and the prices complained of by complainant were reasonable and fair values for the work set forth, and
it was denied that clerical errors were contained in the proposals, or that they were less than the average bids by competitive bidders, and averred that the amounts were knowingly and
intentionally inserted to make complainant's bid what is known
as an "unbalanced bid," to wit, in which the contractor will

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

give a "low price for one kind of work or materials in the same
contract with the hope'that the quantity of work and materials
for which a low price is bid will be reduced, while the quality
of materials or work for which a high price is bid will be increased, thus making up on the high price bid sufficient to give
the contractor a large profit upon the whole work."
The complainant bid upon some items in contract No. 2 in
excess of a reasonable price, thus making its bid for route "1B ,"
contract No. 2, an unbalanced bid, enabling complainant to
realize upon the completion of the work far in excess of Lhe
amount based upon the estimates of defendant's engineer.
In pursuance of the notice to contractors the board awarded
to W. H. Jones & Sons contract No. 1, they being the lowest
bidders, and to complainant contract No. 2, it being the lowest
bidder, but this was not done to take undue and unconscionable
advantage of the manner in which the proposals were made
under contracts Nos. 1 and 2, and presented to the board, nor
did the board act in bad faith and award the contract for the
purpose of taking advantage of the alleged clerical errors.
On the 12th of December,. 1892, by the resolution marked
schedule "B," the board duly and legally awarded to the complainant the contract for the construction of the conduit of
route "B" in contract No. 2, and the complainant was notified
to attend at the office of the board with its sureties to execute
the proposed contract, and the complainant "without sufficient
reason or excuse, and with intent to defraud said defendants,
did refuse and neglect to enter into said contract, and said defendants deny that said complainant is entitled to the relief, or
any part thereof, in the said complaint demanded, and they respectfully submit that the injunction awarded against them by
this honorable court on the 15th day of February, 1893, ought
to be dissolved, and that the said bill ought- to be dismissed,
with costs."
Evidence was submitted on the issues, including the specifications, proposals and bond.
A decree was entered adjudging the proposals of the'complainant for the conduit on line or route "B" to be "-rescinded,
canceled and declared null, void and of no effect," and ordering

MOFFETT, HODGKINS &c. CO. v. ROCHESTER.

383

Statement of the Case.

an injunction to be issued restraining the city and its officers
from declaring complainant in default with respect to its bids
and proposals, "or from declaring forfeited the bond executed
by and on behalf of said complainant, and accompanying the
aforesaid bids and proposals, or from in any manner suing. upon
or attempting to enforce or collect the said bond."
Commenting on the facts the learned trial judge said:
"The question in this controversy is plain and simple: Shall
the complainant be held to an erroneous bid by which it agreed
to do certain work for the city of Rochester for $63,800 less
than was intended? The work related to the construction-of a
conduit to convey the water of Hemlock Lake to the city. By
a mistake of Mr. Burlingame, its engineer, the complainant bid
fifty cenlts per cubic yard for earth excavation in open trenches
when it -intended to bid seventy cents, and one dollar and fifty
cents for, earth excavation in tunnel when it intended to bid
fifteen dollars.
"The proof of these mistakes is clear, explicit and undisputed.
As soon as the item proposing to do the work for fifty cents,
as aforesaid, was read at the meeting of the executive, board,
and before any action was taken thereon, Mr. Burlingame stated
that it was an error, and that complainant intended to bid for
route B the same as for route-A, viz., seventy cents.
"There is some testimony of a negative character that this
prompt .repudiation of the bid did not take place, but the great
weight of testimony is iii favor of the complainant. Had the
errors been corrected the complainant's bid would still have
bpen $200,000 below the next lowest bid. On route A the complainant's bid was $903,324. The mistakes all occurred on
route B, and yet route A was selected, and the work awarded
to other bidders for $1,123,920, or $220,596 more than the complainant's proposal.
"Upon the principal issue there is no disputed question of
fact. Counsel for the defendants, though not admitting the
mistakes, which are the basis of the action, do not dispute
them. The oral argument proceeded upon the theory that the
mistakes were made precisely as alleged.
"In order that no injustice may be done to the defendants,

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

their position in this regard is stated in the language of their
brief, as follows:
"' We admit that the evidence of the complainant shows that
Mr. Burlingame entered in his - proposal sheets certain figures
and numbers different from those which he intended to make,
and that the defendants have no evidence to contradict his testimony.'" 82 Fed. Rep. 255.
On appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals the decree was
reversed, with instructions to the Circuit Court to dismiss the
bill. 33 C. C. A. 319. The case is here on writ of certiorari.
Other facts are stated in the opinion.
.Xr. Iouis .iarshallfor petitioner.
.Mr. Porter X. Frenchfor respondents.
MR.JUSTICE MCKENNA, after stating the case as above, de-

livered the opinion of the court.
Both of the lower courts agree that there was a mistake.
The Circuit Court said that the proof of it was "clear, explicit
and undisputed." The Cirduit Court of Appeals, while expressing no dissent as to the fact, said "that one .of the alleged mistakes, that in respect to the tunnel excavation, was not a mistake in any legal sense, but was a negligent omission arising
from an inadequate calculation of the cost of the work."
We do not think the negligence was sufficient to preclude a
claim for relief if the mistakes justified it.
This court said in-Hearne v. .arine Insurance Company, 20
Wall. 488, 490, by TMfr. Justice Swayne:
"The reformation of written contracts for fraud or mistake
is an ordinary head of equity jurisdiction. The rules which
govern the exercise of this power are founded in good sense and
are well settled. Where the agreement as reduced to writing
omits or contains terms or stipulations contrary to the common
intention of the parties, the instrument will be corrected so as
to make it conform to their real intent. The parties will be
placed as they would have stood if the mistake had not occurred.

MOFFETT, HODGKINS &c. CO. v. ROCHESTER.

385

Opinion of the Court.

"The party alleging the mistake must show exactly in what
it consists and the correction that should be made. The evidence must be such as to leave no reasonable doubt upon the
mind of the court as to either of these points. The mistake
must be mutual, and common to both parties to the instrument.
It must appear that both have done what neither intended. A
mistake on one side may be a -ground for rescinding, but not
for reforming, a contract. Where the minds of the parties
have not met there is no contract, and hence none to be rectified."
The last two propositions may be claimed to be pertinent, to
the case at bar, even though the transactions. between the parties
be considered as a completed contract.
There was no doubt of the mistake, and there was a prompt
declaration of it as soon as it was discovered and before the
city had done anything to alter its condition. Indeed, according to the testimony of one witness, the clerk of the board before the mistake was declared by complainant's engineer expressed the thought that fifty cents per cubic yard for earth
excavation was too low, "and there was some discussion about
it at the time, but Mr. Aldridge (he was chairman of the board)
said he (the clerk) might as well go on and read it, as the bid
was informal." The reading proceeded, and subsequently the
board let the work on contract No. 1 to Jones & Son, and accepted complainant's proposals containing the mistakes for the
work on line "B," contract No. 2, although complainant protested that there was a mistake in the price of earth excavation
and also in tunnel excavation. This was inequitable, even
though it was impelled by what was supposed to be the commands of the charter. It offered or forced complainant the
alternative of taking the contract at an unremunerative price,
or the payment of $90,000 as liquidated damages. We do not
think such course was the command of the statute or the board's

duty.
The rule between individuals is that until a proposal be accepted
it may be withdrawn, and if this principle cannot be applied in
the pending case, on account of the charter of the city, there is
VOL. cLxxviII-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

certainly nothing in the charter which forbids or excuses the
existence of the necessary elements of a contract.
The charter of the city provides that "neither the principal
nor sureties on any bid or bond shall have the right to withdraw or cancel the same until the board shall have let the contract for which such bid is made, and the same shall be duly
executed." A perfectly proper provision, but as was said by
the learned Circuit Court:
"1The complainant is not endeavoring 'to withdraw or cancel
a bid or bond. The bill proceeds upon the theory that the bid
upon which the defendants acted was not the complainant's
bid; that the complainant was no more responsible for it than
if it had been the result of agraphia or the mistake of a copyist
or printer. In other words, that the proposal read at the meeting of the board was one which the complainant never intended
t6 make, and that the minds of the parties never met upon a
contract based thereon. If the defendants are correct in their
contention there is absolutely no redress for a bidder for public
work, no matter how aggravated or palpable his blunder. The
moment his proposal is opened by the executive board he is
held as in a grasp of steel. There is no remedy, no escape.
If, through an error of his clerk, he has agreed to do work worth
a million dollars for ten dollars, he must be held to the strict
letter of his contract, while equity stands by with folded hands
and sees him driven to bankruptcy. The defendant's position
admits of no compromise, no exception, no middle ground."
These remarks are so apposite and just it is difficult to add to
them. The transactions had not reached the degree of a contract - a proposal and acceptance. Nor was the bid withdrawn
or cancelled against the provision of the charter. A clerical
error was discoverd in it and declared, and no question of the
error was then made or of, the good faith of complainant.
It is true it is. now urged by counsel that there was no mistake, but that the prices were deliberately and consciously inserted for the purpose of making an "unbalanced bid," in which
low prices in some items are compensated by high prices in
others. The Circuit Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals

MOFFETT, HODGKINS &c. CO. v. ROCHESTER.

387

Opinion of the Court.

found against this view, and this court usually accepts such
concurrence as conclusive.
The Circuit Court of Appeals, however, found that while
there was a clerical error for the earth excavation in contract
No. 2, route "B," that the alleged mistake in tunnel excavation
"was not a mistake in any legal sense, but was a negligent
omission arising from an inadequate calculation of the cost of
the work." Further, the court said:
"It is also manifest that the complainant did not intend to
give the board an opportunity to correct the mistakes and award
the contract on the corrected basis. There was no color of
foundation for the assertion that the proposals were to be treated
as a single bid for contracts No. 1 and No. 2, and that both
contracts must be awarded to the complainant or neither. The
position thus taken by the complainant was well calculated to
excite distrust on the part of the board and induce its members
to believe that the alleged mistakes were an afterthought, conceived when the complainant had become convinced by studying the proposals of its competitors that it could not profitably
carry out the contract on the terms proposed."
We are unable to concur'in either of these conclusions. The
mistake in tunnel excavations arose from inadvertently making
the cost of one item - mere earth digging and putting the dirt
into cars-- the total cost without making "any allowance for
any work preparatory to it or connected with it," to quote the
testimony of complainant's engineer. And it seems impossible
for the error to have escaped the notice of the board. Other
contractors charged for the same work $12 and $15.
The conclusion that the complainant did not intend to give
the board an opportunity to correct the mistakes is based on a
letter addressed to the board, in which it claimed unity in the
contracts and bids, and demanding that "the contract in its entirety for both sections of the work be awarded to us at the
corrected price, or that we may be allowed to withdraw our
proposal and have our bid returned to us."
But before the time expressed in the resolutions of the executive board of the city for the complainant to appear and execute
a contract, or it would be regarded as abandoning its intention

OCTOBER 'TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

to do so, complainant filed its bill in this case, and appealed to
a court of equity to determine its rights and obligations.
On filing the bill and supporting affidavits, on the 1Sth of
January, 1893, an order was issued temporarily restraining the
officers of the city from declaring the complainant in default
or from forfeiting or suing on its bond, until a motion for an
injunction pendente lite could be heard. Subsequently, after
hearing and argument, an injunction pendente lite was issued.
Prior to its issuing, but after the restraining order, the executive board accepted the bid of Whitmore, Rauber & Vicinus,
and entered into a contract with them for the construction for
the riveted steel pipe conduit, thirty-eight inches in diameter,
for route "A," for eight thousand feet. That is on a different
route and claimed to be the subject of a different contract froin
that awarded to the complainant.
This action made a reformation of the proposals impossiblemade any action of the Circuit Court impossible, except to annul
the proposals or dismiss the bill and subject the complainant to
a suit on its bond. If the decree was narrowed to this relief it
was the fault of the city, not of the complainant. Whatever
its prior claims and pretensions may have been, by submitting
itself to a court of equity complainant submitted itself to abide
by what that court should decree, and the alternative of a reformation of the proposals was certainly not their execution unreformed.
By letting the contract to Whitmore, Rauber & Vicinus, the
city, in effect, evaded the restraining order, forestalled the action of the Circuit Court, and prevented the reformation of the
proposals; and by preventing that justified the decree which
was entered.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed and
that of the Circuit Court is
Affli red.

