MURDOCK v. WARD.
Siatement of the Case.

Upon the whole, we think that the decision of the courts below was correct, and the judgment is therefore
Affrmed.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE dissented.
MR.JUSTICE PECKTA took no part in the decision.

WARD.
MURDOCK ,v.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN I)ISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 458. Argued December 5,6,7,1899. -Decided May 14, 1900.
Knowlton v. Moore, ante, 41, followed in this case as to the points there
decided.
Plummer v. Coler, ante, 115, affirmed and followed in this case.
As the parties below proceeded upon a mutual mistake of law in construing
and applying the statute the court thinks that the practical injustice
that might result from an affirmance of the judgment may be avoided by
reversing it at the cost of the*plaintiff in error, and sending the cause back
to the Circuit Court, with directions to proceed therein according to law.

IN October, 1899, George T. Iurdock, as executor of the last
will and testament of Jane H. Sherman, brought an action in
the Supreme Court of the State of New York, agaiiist John G.
Ward, collector of internal revenue for the fourteenth district
of the State of New York, wherein the plaintiff s6ught to recover
the sum of $36,827.53, which the plaintiff alleged had been
unlawfully exacted from him as executor of said estate.
On petition of the defendant, the cause was removed into the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of
New York.
The complaint contained the following allegations:
"L Jane H. Sherman, late of the village of Port Henry, in
the county of Essex and State of New York, died on about the
30th day of September, 1898, leaving certain property, and also
leaving a last will and testament, in and by which said will this

OCTOBER TERM , 1899.
Statement of the Case.

plaintiff, George T. Murdock, was appointed to be, and by' due
order of the surrogate of the county of Essex, in the State of
New York, to whom jurisdiction in that behalf pertained, he
has become, and is, the sole executor of the said last will and
testament of said Jane I. Sherman.
"II. The plaintiff further alleges and states that the said
Jane H. Sherman, deceased, upon her death left a very considerable amount of personal property, amounting to upwards
of one million of dollars.
"II. That the defendant, John G. Ward, at all the times
mentioned in this complaint, was and he is collector of internal
revenue for the fourteenth district of the State of New York,
having his office and official place of residence at the city of
Albany, in the State of New York.
"IV. That said John G. Ward, assuming to act as such collector, and assuming and pretending to act under and by virtue
of the laws of the United States, which he assumed conferred
authority upon him therefor, and particularly under and in pursuance of the provisions of an act of the Congress of the United
States, commonly known as the ' war revenue law' of June 13,
1898, and being an act to provide ways and means to meet war
expenditures, and for 6ther purposes, passed by the Congress of
the United States, and becoming a law on the 13th day of June,
1898, did, on or about the fourth day of April, 1899, by force
and duress, exact, demand and collect from this plaintiff and
from the estate represented by him as such executor the sum of
thirty-six thousand eight hundred and twenty-seven dollars and
fifty-three cents, ($36,827.53,) and upon the claim and under the
pretext that the same was a lawful assessment as an internal
revenue tax upon the estate of said deceased and against this
plaintiff, as executor of said deceased,°on account of the legacies
or distributive shares arising from personal property, being in
charge or trust of this plaintiff, as such executor as aforesaid,
the properties assumed to be assessed for such tax being properties passing-from the said Jane H. Sherman.
"V. That on or about the 8th day of April, 1899, this plaintiff, under protest, and protesting that he was not nor was the
estate represented by him liable to pay said tax, involuntarily

MURDOCK v. WAleD.
Statement of the Case.

and under duress, because of the illegal demand made upon him
by said defendant, did pay to the said defendant as such collector, as aforesaid, the said sum of $36,827.53.
"VI. That thereafter, believing the imposition of said. tax
and its collection to be unlawful, this plaintiff did appeal to
the Commissioner 6f Internal Revenue and to the Treasury
Department of the United States of America from the action
and decision of said defendant in holding this plaintiff to be
liable for the payment of said tax and in collecting the said tax
in manner aforesaid, and did state and represent to said Commissioner that the collection of said tax was unlawful, and
that the amount thereof should, be refunded for the following
reasons:
"'First. The imposition of said tax was unconstitutional,
unlawful and void.
"' Second. The imposition and collection of said tax deprived
this deponent of his.property and the estate represented by him
of its property without due process of law.
"' Third. That the law imposing said tax is not uniform, and
does not afford equal protection of the laws to persons throughout the United States.
"'Fourth. That the law imposing said tax denied and does
deny to persons throughout the United States and within its
jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws.
"'Fifth. That the law under which said tax was imposed
denies to this deponent the equal protection of the laws.
"' Sixth. The tax so imposed is a direct tax, and is void because not apportioned among the States in proportion to their
population and in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of the United States.
"' Seventh. If said tax is an impost, excise or duty, the law
imposinig the same is unconstitutional and void, because the
tax levied is not uniform throughout the United States, .as required by the Constitution of the United States; and
"' Eighth. It is not within the province of the constitutional
powers of the United States to levy a tax upon a right of inheritance or disposition by will, provided for by the laws of
the State of New York.'

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

"And this'plaintiff did, in and by such appeal, claim that he
was entitled to have the sum of money so paid and the amount
thereof refunded, and he did then and there ask and demand
the return of the same moneys to him, and did appeal from
the act of said defendant, as such collector, in imposing said
tax and exacting from plaintiff payment of the amount thereof.
"VII. On the 21st day of October, 1899, the said Commissioner of Internal Revenue and the Treasury Department of
the United States, represented by the said Commissioner of
Internal Revenue, did disallow the appeal of this plaintiff in
the behalf above stated, and did reject the claim of the plaintiff to have refunded the amount of the tax paid as aforesaid.
"VII. A very large proportion and at least one third of the
personal estate upon account of which said tax was exacted from
and paid by this plaintiff consisted in the bonds and interestbearing evidences of debt issued by the government of the
United States, and which by contract between the United States
and the holders thereof were and are not subject or liable to
assessment or taxation, nor was or is this plaintiff subject or
liable to assessment or taxation by means of his ownership or
holding, as executor, as aforesaid, or otherwise of such bonds
and certificates of indebtedness.
"IX. This plaintiff claims and charges that by reason of the
premises the amount of said tax has been unlawfully exacted
from him as executor of said estate; that each and every of the
grounds stated by him in the above-mentioned appeal to the
said Commissioner of Internal Revenue states and represents a
true and lawful reason why the imposition of said tax is unlawful and why the said tax should be refunded.
"1Whereforethis plaintiff demands judgment against the said
defendant for the sum of thirty-six thousand eight hundred and
twenty-seven dollars and fifty-three cents, ($36,827.5a,) with
interest from the gth day of April, 18,99, with the costs of this
action."
The defendant, appearing by Henry L. Burnett, United States
attorney for the Southern District of New York, demurred to
the complaint upon the ground that the complaint did not state
facts to constitute a cause of action.

MURDOCK v. WARD.
Opinion of the Court.

On N'ovember 14, 1899, after hearing, the Circuit Court sustained the demurrer and ordered the complaint to be dismissed
with costs to the defendant. Thereupon a writ of error was
allowed to the judgment and the cause was brought to this court.
.r. John G. Carlisle and .Xr. CharlesE. Pattersonfor plaintiffs in error. .Mr. AApheus . Bulkeley was on Mr. Patterson's
brief.
Xr. Solicitor Generalfor defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE SHIRAS, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

That the tax imposed under the provisions of the revenue act
of June 13, 1898, is a direct tax, and, therefore, void because
not apportioned among the States in proportion to their population ; that if not a direct tax, but an impost, excise or duty,
it is void, because the tax levied is not uniform throughout the
United States; and that it is not within the province of the
constitutional power of the United States to levy a tax upon a
right of inheritance or disposition by will, provided for by the
laws of the State of New York, are contentions of the plaintiff
in -error which have been determined against him in the case of
Knowltom and Bu~ffum, Executors, v. .Xoore,Collector, ante, 41,
just decided by this court. The opinion in that case so fully
discusses the arguments urged in support of those propositions
that their further consideration is unnecessary.
The remaining question is that presented by the following
assignment of error:
"The court erred in refusing to find that, in so far as the estate of the deceased consisted of the government bonds of the
United States inentioned in said complaint, the Congress had
no right or authority to impose or assess any tax upon the
same, and in refusing to find that the plaintiff in error was entitled to recover back from the defendant in error in this action
the amount of the tax mentioned in his complaint, and which
was assessed against the plaintiff in error because of his ownership as executor, as aforesaid, of such bonds of the government
of the United States."

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

The only dllegation in the complaint respecting bonds of the
United States is contained in the eighth paragraph, which is as
follows:
"A very large proportion and at least one third of the personal estate upon account of which said tax was-exacted from
and paid by this plaintiff consisted-in the bonds and interestbearing evidences of debt issued by the government of the
United States, and which by contract between the United States
and the holders thereof were and are not subject or liable to
assessment or taxation, nor was or igthis plaintiff subject or liable to assessment or taxation by means of his ownership or holding as executor, as aforesaid, or otherwise, of such bonds and
-certificates of indebtedness."
The complaint does not set forth the terms of the will, nor
attach a copy of it as an exhibit. And it is suggested in the
brief of the Solicitor General, filed on behalf of the United
States, that, as presented by the record, this is not a case where
United States bonds have passed from the testatrix to legatees,
but where a personal estate of a certain value in money has
passed to the executor to be charged against him as money, to
be distributed among the beneficiaries under the will; and that,
therefore, for aught that appears, the executor may have sold
every bond and distributed the proceeds in money; and that,
even if legatees, entitled to certain sums of money, shall have
accepted United States bonds in lieu of mon ey, they would take
the bonds, not under the will, but as purchasers.
However, the complaint does allege that the money which is
sought to be recovered was assessed against the plaintiff as executor of the deceased "on account of- legacies or distributive
shares arising from personal property being in his charge or
trust, as such executor as afotesaid, the properties assumed to
be assessed for such tax being properties passing from the said
Jane H. Sherman," and were Paid by him under duress. Such
allegations, taken in connection with that contained in the eighth
paragraph, above quoted, to the effect that, of the property
taxed, at least one third part consisted of United States bonds,
makes it to sufficiently appear that United States bonds, in the
hands of the plaintiff as executor or trustee under a will, were

MURDOCK v. WARD.
Opinion of the Court.

included as a portion of the estate passing to the executor, and
were assessed and taxed as such portion. It may also be ob.
served that it is the executor or trustee who has in charge the
legacies or distributive shares arising from personal property,
passing after the passage of the act, from any person possessed
of such property, who is the person taxed in respect to such
property. Accordingly, we think there is room in this record
for the contention of the plaintiff in error that, as matter of
fact, bonds of the United States formed a portion of the property actually assessed; and that, consequently, the court is
called upon to determine whether it was obligatory on the executor of Jane H. Sherman to include in his statement to the
collector bonds of the United States in his possession and charge
as such executor, and whether it was the right and duty of the
collector to demand and receive from the executor a sum of
money measured by the value of the property in his hands, although composed in part of United States bonds.
Putting aside, as already disposed of in the case of Knowlton
v. .Xoore, the claims that inheritance and legacy taxes imposed
by the United States in the act of June 13, 1898, are invalid
because, as direct taxes, not apportioned, or, as duties, for want
of uniformity, or because the taxing power of the United States
does not reach such property transmissible under the laws of
the States, it is conceded, as we understand the argument of
the plaintiff in error, that United States bonds would be prop-.
erly included in estimating the amount of an inheritance or
legacy tax, were it not for the clauses contained in the United
States statutes exempting such bonds from state and Federal
taxation. On the other hand, it is not denied by the counsel
for the government that it.was the intention of those clauses to
exempt the bonds and interest thereon from any Federal tax,
direct or indirect. What is denied is that there was any intention on the part of Congress, by the clauses mentioned, to exempt the portion of an estate invested in United States bonds
from either a state or Federal inheritance tax.
It is claimed by the plaintiff in error, and conceded by the
government, that the exemption clause was incorporated into
the bonds and became a subsisting contract between the govVOL. CLXXVIII-1O

OCTOBER TERM , 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

ernment and the bondholders. It is further contended on the
one side and conceded on the other, that this contract extends
to the assigns of the holders. But a legal issue is joined when
it is affirmed by the plaintiff in error and denied by the government, that assigns must be interpreted to include those
whose title is derived under the inheritance and legacy laws of
the States.
It has just been decided by this court, in the case of Plummer, Executor, v. Coler, ante, 115, where the question involved
was the validity of the inheritance tax law of the State of New
York when applied to a legacy consisting of United States
bonds containing a clause of exemption from.state and Federal
taxation, that the conclusion fairly to be drawn from the state
and Federal cases is that the right to take property by will or
descent is derived from, and regulated by municipal law; that,
in assessing a tax upon such right or privilege, the State may
lawfully measure or fix the amount of the tax by referring to
the value of the property passing; and that the incidental fact
that such property is composed, in whole or in part, of Federal
securities, does not invalidate the tax or the law under which
it is imposed.
It may be said that: in that case we were dealing with the
sovereign power of a State to tax property within her own limits; but still the contention had to be met that Federal bonds
were not within the taxing power of the State, not only because
they were declared to be exempt from state taxation in any
form, but because they were means devised by the government
to raise money, and that such a purpose might .be defeated if
the States were permitted to tax the bonds in the hands of their
holders. The conclusion, however, was reached, following state
and Federal cases cited, that the inheritance or legacy tax law
of the State of New York did not expressly, or by necessary
implication, propose to tax Federal securities; that the tax was
not imposed on the property passing under the state laws, but
on the right of transfer by will or under the intestate law of
the State; that whatever the form of the property, the right to
succeed to it is created by law, and if it consists of United
States bonds, the transferee derives his right to take them, as

MURDOCK v. WARD.
Opinion of the Cour-.

he does his right to take any other property of the decedent,
under the laws of the State, and the State by its statutes makes
the right subject to the burden imposed.
A similar distinction has been recognized by several of the
state courts, which have held that while a tax imposed on
United States bonds by a state statute would'be invalid because
beyond the reach of the state's power to tax, yet that a tax
upon the franchises or capital stock of a state corporation,
measured by the value of its entire property, would be valid,
even if the property was composed in whole or in part of Federal securities, because the tax cana be regarded as imposed, not
on specific property, but on the rights and privileges bestowed by the State. Commonwealth v.Provident Institution,
12 Allen, 312; Commonwealth v. Hamilton .Xanuf'g Company,
12 Allen, 298; Coite v. Society for Savings, 32 Conn. 173.

The judgments in those cases, holding that state taxes may
be lawfully imposed, the amount of which may be determined
by the aggregate amount of the property or capital stock of
banking or manufacturing companies, even if such property or
capital stock includes United States bonds issued under a statute declaring them exempt from taxation under state authority, were affirmed by this court. Society for Savings v. Coite,
6 Wall. 594:; Insurance Co. v. -Massachusetts,6 Wall. 611; Hamiton 3lanufacturing Co. v. .Aassaehusetts, 6 Wall. 632.
Without repeating the discussion in the opinion in Plummer,
.Ex'tr,v. Coler, and following the conclusion there reached, we
are unable to distinguish that case from the present one..
If a state inheritance law can validly impose a tax measured
by the amount or value of the legacy, even if that amount includes United States bonds, the reasoning that justifies such a
conclusion must, when applied to the case of a Federal inheritance law taxing the very same legacy, bring us to the same
conclusion. We must, therefore, hold that if, as held in Rnowlton v. Moore, the tax imposed under the act of June 13, 1898,
is not invalid as a direct, unapportioned tax, nor for want of
uniformity, nor as an infringement upon the laws of the states
regulating wills and descents, then the tax upon legacies or be-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

quests, descendible under and regulated by state laws, is valid,
even if such legacies incidentally are composed of Federal bonds.
It cannot be denied that the government of the United States
has, and has heretofore exercised, the power to tax its own
bonds. By the act of July 1, 1862, 12 Stat. 474, there was
imposed a tax upon the -interest on United States bonds at one
half the rate of the tax imposed upon the income of other property; and by the acts of June 30, 1864, 13 Stat. 281 and 479,
the discrimination in favor of the holders of United States bonds
was abandoned, and the interest on them was taxed at the like
rates as other income.
The argument in this case turns, at last, upon the proposition
that, by the exempting clauses in the statutes and on the face
of the bonds, the United States entered. into a contract with
those who should buy and hold the bonds that neither principal
nor interest should be taxed.
Whether the United States, in the exercise of the power of
taxation, can be estopped by a contract that such power shall
not be exercised, we need not consider, because the contract in
this case does not, as we view it, mean that a State may not, or
the United States may not, tax inheritances and legacies, regardless of the character of the property of which they are composed.
That some of the holders of United States bonds may have paid
franchise taxes to the States, and others may have paid state or
Federal inheritance and legacy taxes, has nothing to do with
the contract between the United States and the bondholders.
The United States will have complied with their contract when
they pay to the original holders of their bonds, or to their assigns, the interest, when due, in full, and the principal, when
due, in full.
These views demand an affirmance of the judgment of the
Circuit Court sustaining the defendant's demurrer to the complaint.
We observe that it appears in the schedule of legacies prepared by the executor in this case, oh a form apparently furnished by the collector of internal revenue, that several of the
legacies under Mrs. Sherman's will were for sums under ten
thousand dollars, and which were, therefore, under the construc-

MURDOCK v. WARD.
Opinion of the Court.

tion put by this court on the statute in KnowlUom v. Mloore, not
taxable. It also appears that the theory on which the taxes
were computed in respect to legacies over ten thousand dollars
was by measuring the tax by the amount of the entire estates instead of by the amount of each legacy. This method of construing and applying the statute we have held, in Knowlton v.
Mifoore, to be erroneous. Therefore, the executor, representing
the respective legatees, is entitled to recover back the amount
of taxes paid on legacies under ten thousand dollars, and likewise such excess of taxes as was paid by reason of the erroneous
interpretation of the statute.
We here meet the formal difficulty that neither the complaint
in the Circuit Court nor the assignments in error in this court
apparently questioned the correctness of the construction put
upon the statute by the collector. The questions raised and
considered only involved the validity of the act, and not its construction if valid.
As, however, the parties proceeded on a mutual mistake of
law, we think the practical injustice that might result from an
affirmance of the judgment may be avoided by reversing the
judgment at the cost of the plaintiff in error, and sending the
cause back to the Circuit Court with directions to proceed therein according to law.
And accor'dingly it sa ordered.
MR. JUSTIOE

WnrrE dissented in respect to the taxability of

the bonds.
Mr.

JUSTICE PEOICKHAIA

took no part in the decision of the case.

