MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v. SEARS. 345
Statement of the Case.

MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY

.

SEARS.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE IN ?TH
CIRCUIT.
No. 452. Argued March 14, 15, 1900.-Decided May 28,1900.

In view of what has been already decided in Mutual Life Insurance Company v. Phinney, ante, 327, the court holds that it is needless to do more
than note the fact that, as shown by the answer, after the insured had
once defaulted in May, 1892, and a second default had occurred in May,
1893, application was made to him by the company, through its agents,
to restore the policy, and that he declined to make any further payments
or to continue the policy, and elected to have it terminated, which election was accepted by the company, and the parties to the contract treated
it thereafter as abandoned, and that there is nothing in the New York
statute (if controlling at all) to prevent the parties from dealing with
that as any other contract; and if they choose to abandon it, their action
is conclusive.

THis, like the case of .futual 1ife Insurance Company v.
Phinney, ante, 327, just decided, is an action on an insurance
policy issued by the company, the premiums on which were
unpaid for years before the death of the insured. The facts,
as disclosed by the pleadings, (and the case went off on the
pleadings, without any testimony,) are that on May 18, 1891,
the insurance company issued a policy to Stephen P. Sears, he
being the beneficiary named in the policy as well as the insured.
He paid the first annual premium and received the policy, but
neglected to pay the premium due on May 18, 1892, and all
subsequent premiums. He lived until -March 30, 1898, and
thereafter his widow, the plaintiff below, was appointed his executrix. The answer alleged non-payment of the premiums
from 1892 onward, and also "that subsequent to the failure of
the said Stephen P. Sears to make payment of the said annual
premium falling due on said policy, May 18, 1893, and subsequent to the lapsing of said policy for failure to make said payment, and after the said Stephen P. Sears was fully informed
and knew that said policy had been by it declared lapsed and

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

void for non-payment of premium, this defendant, through its
agents, applied to said Stephen P. Sears to make restoration of
said policy by making payment of said defaulted premium and
having the said policy restored to force, but that said Stephen
P. Sears refused to make such payment and refused longer to
continue said policy or make any further payments thereon, and
then and there elected to have the same terminated, and this
defendant, relying upon the said election and determination of
said Stephen P. Sears, at all times subsequent thereto treated
said policy as lapsed, abandoned and terminated, and relying
upon the said conduct of said Sears, abstained from taking any
further action or step in relation to said policy, by way of notice
or otherwise, in order to effect the cancellation and termination
thereof."
A demurrer to this answer was sustained and judgment en*tered for the plaintiff, which was affirmed by the Court of Appeals, 97 Fed. Rep. 986, and the case was thereupon brought to
this court on certiorari.
-Mr. Julien T. Davies and .Afr. John B. Allen for petitioner.
Mr. Edward .yman Short and Ar. Frederic D. Moenney
were on their brief.
Xr. Stanton Tarburtonand Xr.HaroldPrestonfor respondent. .Itr. Ml-en Smi was on their brief.
791. JusTIcE.

BREWER, after stating the, case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
In view of what has been already decided in the case of 71utual Life Insurance Company v. Phinney, -Eecurix,ante, 327,
it is needless to do more than note the fact that, as shown by
the answer, after the insured had once defaulted in May, 1892,
and' a second default had occurred in May, 1893, application
was' made to him by the company, through its agents, to restore
the policy, and that he declined to make any further payments
or to continue the policy, and elected to have it terminated,
which election was accepted by the company, and the parties

MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v. HILL.

347

Opinion of the Court.

to the contract treated it thereafter as abandoned. As we held
in the prior case, there is nothing in the New York statute (if
controlling at all) to prevent the parties from dealing with that
as any other contract, and if they chose to abandon it, that
action is conclusive.
The judgments of the Court of Apeals of the .Yinth Circuit
and of the Circuit Court of the United States for the .District of Washington are reversed and the case remanded to
the latter court, with instructions to overrule the demurrer
to defendant's answer.
MR. JUSTICE PECITAM did not sit in the hearing and took no
part in the decision of this case.

MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v. HILL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPELLS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 453. Argued March 14, 15, 1900. -Decided

Iay 28, 1900.

This case falls within the same rule as Mutual Life Insurance Co. v. Phinney, ante, 327, and Hutual Life Insurance Co. v. Sears, ante, 345, and is
disposed of in the same way.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
-Yr. .JuienT. Davies and Cr. John B. Allen for petitioner.
.X,.Edward ,yman Short and Xr. Frederic.D. ,Afc~enney were
on their brief.
.Xr. StantonWarburton and -3r.
HaroldPrestonfor respondXr. Eben Smith was on their brief.

ent.

MR. JUSTICE BREWER delivered the opinion of the court.

This case resembles the last two decided, in that it was an

