MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v. HILL.

347

Opinion of the Court.

to the contract treated it thereafter as abandoned. As we held
in the prior case, there is nothing in the New York statute (if
controlling at all) to prevent the parties from dealing with that
as any other contract, and if they chose to abandon it, that
action is conclusive.
The judgments of the Court of Apeals of the .Yinth Circuit
and of the Circuit Court of the United States for the .District of Washington are reversed and the case remanded to
the latter court, with instructions to overrule the demurrer
to defendant's answer.
MR. JUSTICE PECITAM did not sit in the hearing and took no
part in the decision of this case.

MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v. HILL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPELLS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 453. Argued March 14, 15, 1900. -Decided

Iay 28, 1900.

This case falls within the same rule as Mutual Life Insurance Co. v. Phinney, ante, 327, and Hutual Life Insurance Co. v. Sears, ante, 345, and is
disposed of in the same way.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
-Yr. .JuienT. Davies and Cr. John B. Allen for petitioner.
.X,.Edward ,yman Short and Xr. Frederic.D. ,Afc~enney were
on their brief.
.Xr. StantonWarburton and -3r.
HaroldPrestonfor respondXr. Eben Smith was on their brief.

ent.

MR. JUSTICE BREWER delivered the opinion of the court.

This case resembles the last two decided, in that it was an

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

action against the insurance company on a policy whose premiums had not been paid for some years before the death of
the insured. The policy was issued April'29, 1886, to George
Dana Hill for the benefit of his wife, if living at the time of his
death, and if not for the benefit of their children. The insured
paid the first annual premium, but none thereafter. He died
on December 4, 1890. His wife died before him, and this action was brought in behalf of the children. The answer alleged,
among other things"That pursuant to the conditions of the said policy, there became and was due to the defendant as a premium upon said
policy of insurance on the twenty-ninth day of April, A.D. 1887,
the sum of eight hundred and fourteen ($814) dollars, and the
said George Dana Hill and the said Ellen Kellogg Hill, his
wife, and each and all of the plaintiffs herein failed, neglected
and refused to pay to the defendant, at the time aforesaid, the
said sum of eight hundred and fourteen ($814) dollars, or any
part thereof, and ever since that time and up to the time of the
death of the said George Dana Hill on the fourth day of December, 1890, the said George Dana Hill and the said Ellen
Kellogg Hill, his wife, during her lifetime, and each and all of
the plaintiffs, neglected and refused to pay to defendant the
said sum or any part thereof, or any other sum or other thing
of value whatever, by reason whereof the said policy of insurance became and was on the twenty-ninth (lay of April, A. D.
1887, according to the, conditions aforesaid, void and of no
effect.
"That at a time more than one year from the time of the
issuance of the policy mentioned in the complaint, and during
the lifetime of the said George Dana Hill mentioned in the complaint, it was mutually agreed between the defendant and the
said George Dana Hill that the said contract of insurance should
be waived, abandoned and rescinded, and the said George Dana
Hill and the defendant then by mutual consent waived, abandoned and rescinded the same accordingly, and all their mutual
rights and obligations therein and thereunder.
"This defendant alleges that the said plaintiffs, and each of
them, should be, and are, estopped from, and should not be per-

MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v. HILL. 349
Opinion of the Court.

mitted to allege or prove that defendant did not mail, or cause
to be mailed, or otherwise given, to said George Dana Hill a
notice stating the amount of premium due on said policy on
April 29, 1887, or at any other time, with the place where the
same should be paid, the person to whom the same is payable,
and stating that unless ±he premium then due should be paid to
the company, or its agents, within thirty days after the mailing of such notice, the policy, and all payments made thereon,
should become forfeited, or any other notice prescribed by any
statute or statutes of the State of New York, or any other notice
than that hereinafter in this paragraph mentioned, for that,
shortly prior to and after, and on said twenty-ninth day of April,
1887, this defendant, in writing, and also personally, notified
and informed the said George Dana Hill, at said city of Seattle,
that the premium of eight hundred and fourteen dollars, necessary to be paid on said policy for the continuance of said policy
of insurance, was due and payable, and said defendant duly
demanded payment of said premium in said sum, and,'at the
same time and place, tendered the receipt of the defendant
therefor, duly signed by its president and secretary; and the
said Hill, being fully so informed and advised in the premises,
refused to make payment of said premium, or any part thereof,
and then and there, intending, and for the purpose of inducing
defendant to rely upon the same, informed defendant that he,
the said George Dana Hill, was unable to pay said premium,
and did not intend to make payment thereof, or of any premium thereafter to accrue upon said policy of insurance, but,
on the contrary, he, the said George Dana Hill, intended to
allow the said policy to lapse and become forfeited for want of
payment of said premium, or of any future premium accruing
on said policy; and the said defendant, .then and there, and ever
since, relying upon the said representations and conduct on the
part of the said George Dana Hill, was thereby induced to, and
did, declarethe said policy and contract of insurance forfeited
and abandoned, and, in good faith, relying upon said conduct
and representations on the part of said George Dana Hill, this
defendant was induced to, and did, fail and abstain from giving
or mailing any notice, whether prescribed by statute or other-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

wise, to the said George Dana Hill, or to any person interested
in said policy, concerning the payment of any premium thereon."
Here, as in the last two cases, is disclosed a distinct agreement on the part of the insured and the company to waive and
abandon the policy and all rights and obligations on the part of
the parties thereto.
But it is said that the insured was not the beneficiary; his
wife, and in case of her death, their children, being named as
such; and that it was not in his power, by non-payment or
waiver or abandonment, to relinquish or cancel her or their
rights in the policy. It is doubtless an interesting question how
far the action of the insured can affect or bind the beneficiaries
in a life insurance policy. If the answer in this case contained
simply the allegation in respect to the insured's agreement with
the company, we should be compelled to enter into an examination of that question; but it is alleged, not only that the insured
and the company agreed to abandon the contract, but also that
the beneficiary, his wife, and the plaintiffs, their children, "failed,
neglected and. refused" to pay the premiumn. So we have a
case in which not only did the insured and the company abandon
the contract, but also the beneficiaries neglected and refused to
do that which was essential to keep the policy in life. The
allegation in the answer does not disclose a mere omission, for
it is "neglected and refused," and, of course, there can be no
refusal unless with knowledge of the opportunity or duty. A
party cannot be said to refuse to do a thing of which he knows
nothing. Refusal implies demand, knowledge or notice. The
case, therefore, is one in which the beneficiaries refused to
continue the policy, while the insured and the company abandoned it.
Under those circumstances we think the case falls within the
same rule as the preceding; and the judgments of the Court
of Apeals of the 5inth Circuit and of the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of Washington are
reversed, and the case remanded to the Wtter court, with
instructionsto overrule the demurrerto defendant's answer.
M R .JuSTI c PEcxEiA did not sit in the hearing and took no
part in the decision of this case.

