OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Syllabus.

in recited we are not prepared to hold that any error of law
was committed by that officer.
This disposes of all the questions in the case that need be
noticed, and the decree below is
Afrmed.

MAY v. NEW ORLEANS.
No. 332. Argued March 6, 7,1900.-Decided Mlay 21, 1900.
May & Co., merchants at New Orleans, were engaged in the business of
importing goods from abroad, and selling them. In each box, or case in
which they were brought into this country, there would be many packages, each of which was separately marked and wrapped. The importer
sold each package separately. The city of New Orleans taxed the goods
after they reached the hands of the importer (the duties having been
paid) and were ready for sale. Held:
(1) That the box, case or bale in which the separate parcels or bundles
were placed by the foreign seller, manufacturer or packer was to
be regarded as the original package, and when it reached its destination for trade or sale and was opened for the purpose of using
op exposing to sale the separate parcels or bundles, the goods lost
their distinctive claracter as imports and each parcel or bundle
became a part of the general mass of property in the State and
subject to local taxation;
(2) That Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419, established these propositions: 1. That the payment of duties to the United States gives
the right to sell the things imported, and that such right to sell
cannot be forbidden or impaired by a State; 2. That while the
things imported retain their character as imports, and remain the
property of the importer, "in his warehouse, in the original form
or package in which it was imported," a tax upon it is a duty on
imports within the meaning of the Constitution; 3. That a State
cannot, in the form of a license or otherwise, tax the right of the
importer to sell, but when the importer has so acted upon the goods
imported that they have been incorporated or mixed with the general mass of property in tle State, such goods have then lost their
distinctive character as imports, and have become from that time
subject to state taxation, not because they are the products of
other countries, but because they are -property within the 'State
in like condition with other property that should contribute, in
the way of taxation, to the support of the government which protects the owner in his person and estate.

MAY 7. NEW ORLEANS.
Opinion of the Court.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.

_'. D. C. .jXellen for plaintiffs in error.
ley was on his brief.

Xr.J Ward Gur-

-,'. I. B. Sommej'ville for defendant in error. Ar.Samuel
i. Gilmore was on his brief.
MR. JUSTICE

HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiffs in error, a commercial firm in New Orleans,
brought this action in the Civil District Court, Parish of Orleans, to prevent the enforcement of certain tax assessments
made by the city of New Or]eans in the year 1897.
The petition alleged that during the whole of the year 1897
the plaintiffs were engaged in importing for sale foreign goods
upon all of which they paid the duties and. imposts levied by
the United States;
That the' Board of Assessors for the Parish of Orleans assessed them for that year $2500 on "merchandise and stock
in trade," and $1000 under the head of "money loaned on
interest, all credits and all bills receivable, money loaned and
advanced or for goods sold, all credits of any and every description ;" and,

That such assessments were void for the following reasons:
1. All merchandise and stock in trade had and carried by the
plaintiffs during 1897 consisted of dry goods imported by them
from foreign countries upon which duties, implosts and import
taxes were levied by the United States and paid by them, and
which were sold only in unbroken original packages as imported,
and the assessment thereon was in violation of Article 1, section 10, paragraph 2, of the Constitution of the United States.
2. All the credits. and bills receivable of the firm during that
year consisted wholly of sums due on the purchase price of
the above merchandise sold in unbroken and original packages as imported, and the assessment thereon was in violation
of the same constitutional provision. 3. The assessment of
$1000 upon "money loaned on interest" was unconstitutional,
VOL. CLXXVII-3,2

•498

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

because the plintiffs at no time during 1897 had any money
loaned on interest.
A temporary injunction having been granted against any
sale of the plaintiffs' property for the taxes in question, the
city answered denying each allegation of the petition.
The only evidence in the case was the testimony of one of
the plaintiffs as to the manner in which the company conducted
its business. That testimony-using substantially the words
of the witness-may be thus summarized:
Representatives of the firm. went to Europe and obtained
from different manufacturers samples of goods which were sent
to New Orleans and were used by plaintiffs in obtaining what
were known as import orders. Besides that method, if any article was thought good they placed what were known as stock
orders-that is, they ordered the goods on their own account.
But in most cases the firm sold the goods and did not keep a
stock on hand. -All their goods were imported and customs
duties were paid on them. They did not handle domesticgoods.
They sold the goods in the packages in which they were received because the bulk of their business was jobbing trade.
Two, three or five hundred packages might be ordered. If the
order were for five'hiin.dred dozen towels, they might come
packed two, three or five dozen in a package. Such a package
was never broken. .If a small customer came in they might
sell him one package. It had, often happened that customers
desired only a sample, in which case a package might be broken
to get it. Upon these samples the importers obtained orders.
If an order was given for five hundred dozen towels, put up in
packages of five dozen each when shipped to the firm by the
manufacturer in Europe, they would be enclosed in a wooden
case. Cases containing such orders might not come to the
firm's store at all but would go directly to the customer unopened. But if there were two or three orders in a case it
would be brought to the store, opened, and the different orders
taken out. But they never opened any of the packages in the
case.
An import order was one placed on samples to be manufactured, and about sixty-five per cent of the firm's business was

. MAY v. NEWV ORLEANS.
Opinion of the Court.

done by import orders. They would submit to the buyer a
line of samples and he would give an import order with the
understanding that the goods ordered were to be manufactured
and the delivery of them 'not made for three or four 'months.
If he placed a stock order it was for goods that were in the
store ready for delivery.
Goods were always ordered on the firm's own account.
They might receive an order for two hundred dozen towels,
but give an order on the manufacturer for five hundred dozen,
for three hundred of which they had no order but Which they
might sell while in process of manufacture. They were the.
owners of all goods that came to then upon those orders.
The lace handled by them was put'up in cartons or pasteboard boxes, each box containing twelve pieces of lace, each
piece twelve yards long. In filling orders a number of these
cartons or boxes were put in another box or case by the manufacturer and so received by the firm. If a case contained only
one order it was sent directly to the customer. If the case
happened to contain two or more orders it went to the store,
where it was opened and the orders separated.
Bobbinet was received in cases containing thirty, forty or
fifty packages of two, three or four pieces each. If a customer
wished to buy bobbinet, he was told that he would have to buy
at least one package; that they did not sell one piece only but
in packages. The bulk of the business in bobbinet was directly
on import orders. At times six, seven or eight cases which did
not come to the store were sold to one firm. Bobbinet was not
sold by the case. If more than one order came in a case it was
broken open and the orders separated.
The stock of the firm consisted mostly of bobbinet and household linens. They also kept a number of samples of dolls and
toys, household linens, towels, sheets, embroideries and laces.
We here give a part of the examination of the witness:
"Q. Some of which goods were sold in these cartons as you
describe and not in the original packages? A. Some of which
were-sold out of stock and some on import orders. Q. Let us
make that clear. I understand you to say -let us take this
case of cartons of laces. You may order such a quantity of

OCTOBER TERMI, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

laces as would consist of, say, fifty cartons, and the factory ships
them to you in a large wooden box? A. The packer does that.
The manufacturer does not even put them in a case himself,
but gets the packer to do that; and there are certain goods not
in the lace line, but in the household linen line, which do not
come in cases; they come in bales. Q. I want to get a thorough
explanation of the way you get at these goods. Say a dozen
or more packages of goods are shipped by the manufacturer in
a wooden box for convenience, as I understand many of these
cases go direct to your customers? A. A great many. Q. And
in other cases, where they contain more than one order, the
cases are opened by you and the orders separated? A. Yes;
but the order is generally sent in the case itself. The goods
may be shipped in a wrapper by express. The case does not
signify that this is the original package. The original package
is the one in which the goods are put up at the factory. If a
manufacturer puts up five dozen towels in a package that package is the original package, and if I open that package I break
the original package; but, whether he puts those packages in
a case or not, it remains in the original package. The original
package is the original wrapper put around the goods at the
factory, and is known as such in the trade."
In reference to "Money loaned on interest, all credits and all
bills receivable, money loaned and advanced or for goods sold,
all credits of any and every description" in the assessment, the
witness said that the only property possessed by the firm in
1897 of the kind mentioned in those items were bills receivable.
Those bills consisted of money due them on sales of imported
goods by customers who had given orders which had been filled
but for which they had not paid. Some of these goods were
$old out of stock and some on import orders. They had no
money loaned on interest in 1897. The firm was continuing to
do business in 1898 in the same way as in the previous year.
Upon final hearing the Civil District Court adjudged that
the assessment in question was unconstitutional and void, and
the injunction against the city was made perpetual. That judgment having been reversed upon appeal with directions to dissolve the injunction and dismiss the petition, the contention

MAY v. NEW ORtEANS.
Opinion of the Court.

here is that the plaintiffs in error have been denied rights and
immunities secured to them by the Constitution of the United
States.
The Supreme Court of Louisiana, speaking by Mr. Justice
Blanchard, said, among other things: "The question, then,
which the case really presents is, what is the ' original package'?
Is it the package in which the goods are put up for convenience
by the foreign manufacturer, or is it the case, the box, the covering in which the goods so put up by the manufacturer are
packed for shipment? Is the manufacturer's package the original package in legal interpretation, or must that be held to be
the original package which is delivered to the carrier for transportation to the desired destination? If the package put up
by the manufacturer be the original package, then plaintiffs'
objection to the assessment complained of is well taken. If the
case or box in which the goods are placed for shipment be the
original package, then their case falls." After referring to
some of the adjudged cases, the court said that the authorities
supported the contention of the city that the 1'original package"
in this case must be held to be that in which the goods were
shipped to and received by the plaintiffs and not the smaller
packages put up by the manufacturer and packed in the box
delivered to the carrier.
If the goods of the plaintiffs were assessed for taxation before
they had ceased to b6 imports, that is, while in the original,
packages and before they had, by the act of the importer, become incorporated into the mass of property of the State and
were held for use or sale, then the assessment was void under
the provision of the Constitution of the United States declaring
that no State slhall, without the consent of Congress, lay any
imposts or duties on imports or exports except those absolutely
necessary for executing its inspection laws, as well as under the
provision giving Congress power to regulate commerce with foreign nations. Art. 1, §§ 8, 10. Of the correctness of this general proposition, as sustained by the adjudged cases, no doubt
is entertained.
Two views of the general question are presented for our consideration.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

One is, that the box, case or bale in which the plaintiffs' goods
were brought from Europe was not the original package; that
each separate parcel or bundle placed in each box, case or bale
was itself an original package; and that within the meaning of
the Constitution no one of such separate parcels or bundles lost
its distinctive character as an import and became part'of the
mass of property in the State, liable to local taxation, until after
that separate parcel or bundle had been sold by the importers.
This is substantially the proposition pressed upon oar attention
by the plaintiffs.
,The other view is that the box, case or bale in which the
separate parcels or bundles were placed by the foreign seller,
manufacturer or packer was to be regarded as the original package, and that upon the opening of such box, able or case for
the purpose of using or exposing to sale such separate parcels
or bundles, each parcel or bundle lost its distinctive character
as an import and became a part of the general mass of property
in the State subject to local taxation. This is the proposition
advanced on behalf of the defendant.
Let us first inquire as to the consequences that may follow
from the interpretation of the clause of the Constitution relating to state taxation of imports upon which the plaintiffs rest
their case. ' In the view taken by them it would seem to be
immaterial whether the separate parcels or packages brought
from Europe were left in the shipping box, case or bale after it
was opened or were tacen out and placed on the shelves or
counters in the store of the importer for delivery or sale along
with goods manufactured or made in this country. In other
words, they argue that the importer may sell each separate
package either from the box in which it was transported, after
it is opened, or from the shelves or counters in his store, without being subjected to local taxation in respect of any package
so brought into the country, provided such separate package be
sold or offered for sale in the form in which it was when placed
in the box, case or bale by the European manufacture or packer.
This means that the power of the State to tax goods, the product of other counties, depends upon the particular form in
which. the European manufacturer or packer, of his own accord

MAY i. NEW ORLE]ANS.
Opinion of the Court.

or by direction of the importer, has put them up in order to be
sent to this country. The necessary result of this position is,
that every merchant selling only goods of foreign manufacture,
in separate packages, although enjoying the protection of the
local government acting under its police powers, may conduct
his business, however large, without any liability whatever to
state or local taxation in -respect of such goods, provided he
takes care to have the articles imported separately wrapped and
placed in nat form in a box, case or bale for transportation to
and sale in this country. In this view, if a jeweller desires to
buy fifty Geneva watches for the purpose of selling them here
without paying taxes upon them asproperty,he need only direct
them to be placed in separate cases, however small, and then
put them all together in one box. After paying the import
duties on all the watehes in the box and receiving the box at his
store, he may open the box, and the watches, each one being in
its own separate case, may then be exposed for sale. According to the contention of the plaintiffs, each watch, in its own
separate case, would be an original package, and could not be
regarded as part of the mass of property of the State and subject to local taxation, so long as it remained in that form and
unsold in the hands of the importer. Other illustrations arising out of the business of American merchants will readily occur
to every one. The result would be that there might be upon
the shelves of a merchant in this country, ready to be used and
openly exposed for sale, commodities or merchandise consisting
of articles separately wrapped and of enormous value that could
not be reached for local taxation until after he had sold them,
no matter how long they had been kept by the importer before
selling them. It cannot be overlooked that the interpretation
of the Constitution for which plaintiffs contend would encourage American merchants and traders, seeking to avoid state
and local taxation, to import from abroad all the merchandise
and commodities which they would need in their business.
There are other considerations 'that cannot be ignored in determining the time at which goods imported from foreign countries lose their character as imports and may be properly regarded as part of the general mass of property in the State

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

subject to local taxation. If, as plaintiffs insist, each parcel
separately wrapped and marked and put in the shipping box,
case or bale, is an original package which, until sold, no matter
when, would retain its distinctive character as an import, although the box, case or bale containing them had been opened,
and the separate parcels all exposed for sale, what stands in the
way of European manufacturers opening branch houses in this
country, and selling all their goods put up in the form of separate parcels and packages, without paying anything whatever
by way of taxation on their goods a properti/protectedby the
laws of the State in which they do business P Indeed, under
plaintiffs' view, the Constitution secures to the manufacturers
of foreign goods imported into this country an immunity from
taxation that is denied to manufacturers of domestic goods. An
interpretation attended with such consequences ought not to be
adopted if it can be avoided without doing violence tQ the words
of the Constitution. Undoubtedly the payment of duties imposed by the United States on imports gives the importer the
right to bring his goods into this country for sale, but he does
not simply by paying the duties escape taxation upon such
goods as property after they have reached their destination for
use or trade, and the box, -case or bale containing them has been
opened and the goods exposed to sale.
Let us see what this court has said when it has had occasion
to determine the meaning and scope of the constitutional provision relating to imports.
The leading case is Brown v. Maryland,12 Wheat. 419, 436,
441-444,. Brown was indicted under an act of the legislature
of Maryland supplementary to. an act relating to duties on hicenses to retailers of dry goods and for other purposes. The
second section of the supplementary act provided: "That all
importers of foreign articles or commodities of dry goods, wares
or merchandise, by bale or package, or of wine, rum, brandy,
whiskey and other distilled spirituous liquors, etc., and other
persons selling the same by wholesale, bale or package, hogshead, barrel or tierce, shall, before they are authorized to sell,
take out a license as by the original act is directed, for which
they shall pay fifty dollars; and in case of neglect or refusal to

MAY v. NEW ORLEANS.
Opinion of the Court.

take out such license, shall be sujbect to the same penalties and
forfeitures as are prescribed by the original act to which this is
a supplement." Laws, Maryland, 1821-22, c. 246, p. 168. The
indictment having been sustained, the case was brought to this
court and was argued with great ability.
It is important to observe that the question presented was not
one of ordinary taxation upon property, but it was-to use the
words of Chief Justice Marshall-" whether the legislature of a
State can constitutionally require the importer of foreign articles to take out a license from the State before he shall be permitted to sell a bale or package so imported?"

That question

was considered with reference to the clause forbidding the States
from laying imposts or duties on imports or exports, except such
as were absolutely necessary for executing their inspection laws
and also with reference to the commerce clause of the Constitution. Declining to lay down any rule as universal in its application, the court said: "It is sufficient for the present case to
say, generally, that when the importer has so acted upon the
thing imported that it has become incorporated and mixed up
with the mass of property in the country, it has, perhaps, lost
its distinctive character as an import, and has become subject to
the taxing power of the State; but while remaining the property of the importer, in his warehouse, in the original form or
package in which it was imported, a tax on it is too plainly a
duty on imports to escape the prohibition in the Constitution."
Again: "The object of importation is sale; it constitutes the
motive for paying duties; and if the United States possess the
power of conferring the right to sell, as the consideration for
which the duty is paid, every principle of fair dealing requires
that they should be understood to confer it.

.

.

.

The whole

course of legislation on the subject shows that, in the opinion
of the legislature, the right to sell is connected with the payment of duties."
On behalf of the State of Maryland it was contended that if
the importer acquired the right to sell by the payment of duties,
he might exert that right when, where and as he pleased, and
that the State could not regulate it; that he might sell by retail, by auction, or as an itinerant pedler; that he might intro-

OCTOBER TERM, 18P9.
Opinion of the Court.

duce articles, such as gunpowder, which would endanger the city,
into the midst of its population, as well as articles which would
endanger the public health, and thus the power of self-preservation would be denied; and that an importer might bring in
goods, as plate, for his own use, and thus retain much valuable
property exempt from taxation.
To these objections the court, speaking by the Chief Justice,
responded: "These objections to the principle, if well founded,
would certainly be entitled to serious consideration. But, we
think, they will be found, on examination, not to belong necessarily to the principle, and, consequently, not to prove that it
may not be resorted to with safety as a criterion by which to
measure the extent of the prohibition. This indictment is
against the importer for selling a package of dry goods in the
form in which it was imported, without a license. This state
of things is changed if hA sells them, or otherwise mixes them
With the general property of the State, breaking up his packages and traveling with them as an. itinerant pedler. In the
first case, the tax intercepts the import, as an import, in its way
to become incorporated with the general mass of property, and
denies it the privilege of becoming so incorporated until it shall
have contributed to the revenue of the State. It denies to the
importer the right of using the privilege which he has purchased from the United States, until he shall have also purchased it from the State. In the last cases, the tax finds the
article already incorporated with the mass of property by the
act of the importer. He has used. the privilege he had purchased, and has himself mixed them up with the common mass,
and the law may-treat them as it finds them. The same observations apply to plate, or other furniture used by the importer. So, if he sells by auction. Auctioneers are persons
licensed by the State, and if the importer chooses to employ
them, he can as little object to paying for this service as for any
*other for which he may apply to an officer of the State. The
right of sale may very well be annexed to importation, without
*annexing to it, also, the privilege of using the officers licensed
by the State to make sales in a peculiar way. The power to
direct the removal of gunpowder is a branch of the police

MAY v. NEW ORLEANS.
Opinion of the Court.

power, which unquestionably remains, and ought to remain,
with the States. If the possessor stores it himself out of town,
the removal cannot be a duty on imports, because it contributes
nothing to the revenue. If he prefers placing it in a public
magazine, it is because he stores it there, in his opinion, more
advantageously than elsewhere. We are not sure that this
may not be classed among inspection laws. The removal or
destruction of infectious or unsound articles is, undoubtedly,
an exercise of that power, and forms an express. exception to
the prohibition we are considering. Indeed, the laws of the
United States expressly sanction the health laws of a State.
The principle, then, for which the plaintiffs in error contend,
that the importer acquires a right, not only to bring the articles into the country, but to mix them with the common mass
of property, does not interfere with the necessary power of taxation which is acknowledged to reside in the States, to that
dangerous extent which the counsel for the defendants in error
seem .to apprehend. It carries the prohibition in the Constitution no farther than to prevent the States from- doing that
which it was the great object of the Constitution to prevent."
These extracts from the opinion in Brown v. Yaizryland establish the following propositions:
1. That the payment of duties to the United States gives the
right to sell the thing imported, and that such right to sell cannot be forbidden or impaired by a State.
2. That a tax upon the thing imported during the time it retains its character as an import and remains the property of
the importer, "in his warehouse, in the original form or package in which it was imported," is a duty on imports within the
meaning of the Constitution; and
3. That a State cannot, in the form of a license or otherwise,
tax the right of the importer to sell, but when the importer has
so acted upon the goods imported that they have become incorporated or .mixed with the general mass of property in the
State, such goods have then lost their distinctive character as
imnyort, and have become from that time subject to state taxation, not because they are the products of other countries, but
because they are property within the State in like condition

OCTOBER TERM; 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

with other property that should contribute, in the way of taxation, to the support of the government which protects the
owner in his person and estate.
So the question in the present case is whether the plaintiffs,
prior to the assessment complained of, had so acted upon thegoods imported by them as to incorporate them with the mass
of the property in the State, and bring them, while in their
possession, within the range of local taxation.
We have seen that the plaintiffs, in effect, contend that having paid the duties imp9sed by the United States they were
entitled, without liability to taxation upon the goods as property, to open the boxes in which the separate parcels of goods
were transported and put such separate parcels in the hands of
agents to be sold wherever, in the State or in the country customers could be found. The separate parcels-such is the effect of the argument-are not to be deemed incorporated into
the mass of the property of the State wyhile thus being carried
around the country by the importer's agents-no separate parcel, so long as it remained in the particular form in which it
was packed in a box or case with other parcels, ceasing to have
the character of an import until after it was sold by such agents.
This proposition cannot be sustained. We cannot doubt that
the goods when placed in the hands of agents for sale, in separate parcels, have been so acted upon by the importer that
they have ceased to be imports and have become part of the
mass of the property of the State, liable to local taxation. But
what is the difference in principle between the case of sales by
an importer through travelling agents and the case of an importer who opens the box or case in which his goods, wrapped
in separate parcels, were imported, and by emnploy~s sells or
offers to sell the separate parcels either from the opened box
or case in his store or from shelves or counters upon which such
par6els have been, placed for examination and sale.
In our judgment, the "original package ".in the present case
was the box or case in which the goods imported were shipped,
and when the box or case was opened for the sale or delivery
of the separate parcels contained in it, each parcel of the goods
lost its distinctive character as an import, and became property

MAY v. NEW ORLEANS.
Opinion of the Court.

subject to taxation by the State as other like property situated
within its limits. The tax here in question was not -in any
sense a tax on imports nor a tax for the privilege of bringing
the things imported into the State. It was not a tax on the
plaintiffs' goods because they were imported from another
country, but because at the time of the assessment they were
in the market for sale in separate parcels and therefore subject
to be -taxed as like property, in the same condition, that had its
origin in this country. We cannot impute to the framers of
the Constitution a purpose to make such a discrimination in
favor of property imported from other countries as would result if we approved the views pressed upon us by the plaintiffs.
When their goods had been so acted upon as to become a part
of the general mass of property in the State the plaintiffs
stood, with respect to liability to state taxation, upon the same
basis of equality as the owners of like property, the product of
this country; the only difference being that the importers paid
a duty to the United States for the privilege of importing their
goods into this country, and of selling them in the original
packages-a duty imposed for the purpose of raising money to
carry on the operations of the Government, and in many instances, with the intent to protect the industries of this country against foreign competition. A different view is not justified by anything said in Brown v. 3faryland. It was there
held that the importer by paying duties acquired the right to
sell in the original packages the goods imported-the Maryland
statute requiring a license from the State before any one could
8ell "by wholesale, bale or package, hogshead, barrel or tierce,"

goods imported from other countries. But it was not held that
the right to sell was attended with an immunity from all taxation upon the goods as _property, after they had ceased to be
imports and had become by the act of the importer a part of
the general mass of property in the State. The contrary was
adjudged.
Without further reference to authorities we state our conclusion to be that within the decision in Brown v. aryland
the boxes, cases or bales in which plaintiffs' goods were shipped
were the original packages, and the goods imported by them

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Counsel for Parties.

lost their distinctive character as imports and became a part of
the general mass of the property of Louisiana, and subject to local
taxation as other property in that State, the moment the boxes,
cases or bales in which they were shipped reached their destination for use or trade and were opened and the separate packages
therein eiposed or offered for sale; consequently, the assessment in question was not in violation of the Constitutiofn of the
United States.
This disposes of the only Federal question arising on this
appeal.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Louisiana is
Aff'med.
MR.. CHIEF JUST=IE FULLER, MR. JUSTICE BREWER, MR. JUSand AIR. JUSTICE PECKHAM dissented.

TICE SHIRAs

DEWEY v. UNITtD STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 546.

Argued April 10, 1900.-Decided May 28, 1900.

In this case it was rightly decided in the court below, that in determining
under the provisions of Rev. Stat. sec. 902, whether the Spanish vessels
sunk or destroyed *at Manila were of inferior or superior force to the
American vessels engaged in that battle, the land batteries, mines and
torpedoes, not controlled by those in charge of the Spanish vessels, but
which supported those vessels, were to be excluded altogether from consideration,oand that the size and armaments of the vessels sunk or destroyed, together with the number of men upon them, were alone to be
regarded in determining the amount of the bounty to be awarded.
THE

case is stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. H. A. Herbert and Xi%.Benjamin Xfieou for appellant
and othri's.

