CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.

ROEHM

H.
tORST.

CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 188. Argued March 15,16,1900.-Decided May 14, 1900.

After a careful review of all the cases, American and English, relating to
anticipatory breaches of an executory contract, by a refusal on the part
of one party to it to perform it, the court holds that the rule laid down
in Hochsterv. De la Tour, 2 El. & Bh, 678, is a reasonable and proper rule
to be applied in this case.
That rule is that after the renunciation of a continuing agreement by one
party, the other party is at liberty to consider himself absolved from any
future performance of it, retaining his right to sue for any damages he
has suffered from the breach of it; but that an option should be allowed
to the injured party, either to sue immediately, or to wait till the time
when the act was to be done, still holding it as prospectively binding for
the exercise of this option.
The parties to a contract which is wholly executory have a right to the
maintenance of the contacetual relations up to the time for performance,
as well as to a performance of the contract .when due;
As to the question of damages, when the action is not premature, the plaintiff is entitled to compensation based, as far as possible, on the ascertainment of what he would have suffered by the continued breach of the
other party down to the time of complete performance, less any abatement by reason of circumstances of which he ought reasonably to have
availed himself.

THIS was an action for breach of four certain contracts, brought

VOL. CLXXVIII-1

(1)

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

by Paul R. G. Horst and others against John Roehm in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Pennsylvania, in January, 1897, and was tried under a stipulation, waiving a jury, before Dallas, Circuit Judge, who made
a special finding of facts, and, on the facts so found, gave judgment for plaintiffs. 81 Fed. Rep. 565. The case was carried
by defendant to the Circuit Court of Appeals for, the Third
Circuit, and the judgment of the Circuit Court was affirmed.
62 U. S. App. 520. Thereupon Roehm applied to this court
for a writ of certiorari, which was granted, and the cause subsequently heard here.
The Circuit Court found that"On August 25th, 1893, the firm of Horst Brothers, composed of Paul R. G.. Horst, E. Clemens Horst and Louis A. Horst,
the legal plaintiffs, entered into four written contracts with
John Roehm, the defendant, of which the following are copies:
Hop Contract.
"' Mfemorandum of agreement made and entered into by and
between Horst Brothers, doing business in the city of New York,
parties of the first part, and John Roehm, party of the second
part.
"1Witnesseth: That the said parties of the first part agree
to sell and deliver to the party of the second part, and that the
party of the second part agrees to purchase, pay for, and receive
from the party of the first part one hundred (100) bales, prime
Pacific Coast hops of the crop of 1896. Three and one half
pounds tare to be deducted on each bale. Said hops to be delivered ex dock or store, New York city, and to be paid for in
net cash ten days from date of arrival at the rate of twentytwo (22) cents per pound.
"'Time of shipment, 20 bales each month, October, November, December, January and February, except as hereafter provided.
" If at any time a difference of opinion shall exist regarding
the quality or condition of any hops submitted or tendered under
this agreement, each party shall select an arbitrator, to whom
the question of the quality and condition shall be submitted,

ROEHM v. HORST.
Statement of the Case.

and in case of their disagreement, a third arbitrator shall be selected by the two thus chosen, and the decision of the majority
of the three shall be final; and in case the decision shall be that
the pops tendered are not equal to the quality above called for,
the parties of the first part shall, within thirty days after receipt
of written notice of such decision,.submit samples or tender delivery to the party of the second part, other hops, in fulfillment
of this agreement, and party of the second part agrees to receive
same.
"1In witness whereof, the said parties have hereunto set their
hands, Phila., this 25th day of August, 1893.
"'HoRs'r BiRos.
"'JOHN RoEHF.

'

[Here followed a second, third and fourth contract, of same
tenor and under same date, the second for one hundred bales of
the crop of 1896, to be shipped twenty bales each month, in the
months of March, April, May, June and July; the third for
one hundred bales of the crop of 1897, to be shipped, twenty
bales each month, in the months of October, November, December, January and February; and the fourth for one hundred
bales of the crop of 1897, to be shipped twenty bales each month,
in the months of :March, April, 'May, June, and July.]
"The months named in each of these contracts respectively,
as ' time of shipment,' must, under the custom of the trade, be
understood as meaning the month so named, which would follow next after the summer months of the year of the crop referred to in the particular contract.
"Oi" June 23d, 1896, the firm of Horst Brothers was dissolved,
and Paul R. G. Horst assigned to his copartners, E. Clemens
Horst and Louis A. Horst, the use plaintiffs, all the interest of
him, the said Paul R. G. Horst in the said contracts.
"Upon June 23d, 1896, a notice, of which the following is a
copy, was addressed to and received by the defendant:
"' June 23; 1896.
"'Dear Sir: We beg to inform you that the partnership of
Horst Brothers has been this day dissolved.
"'Respectfully yours,
" 'loRsT

BROTHERS.'

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

"To this, under date of June 27th, 1896, the defendant replied, saying:

. . . I I suppose that your reason for giving

me the notice is on account of the contracts which I had with
your late firm,

.

.

which, of course, you cannot fulfill.

I therefore consider the contracts annulled and will make other
arrangements for the purchase of the hops I may need, and you
may consider this as release from liability on your part to comply with the contracts.' In answer to this, Horst Brothers in
liquidation addressed a letter to the defendant, which he duly
received, in which it was said that he had misconstrued the notice of dissolution sent out to the trade; that its meaning was
that no new contracts would be made and no new business
undertaken by the firm of Horst Brothers; and in which it was
further stated that, ' so far as the firm or business is concerned,
the firm will discharge its obligations and will try to collect its
claims; it does not ask for any release or discharge, and will
punctually live up to all the contracts which it has made with
you.' This communication was not replied to.
"In October, 1896, the first shipment of twenty bales of hops
under the contracts was made, and the invoice and bill of lading
covering that shipment were sent to the defendant, who, on
October 24, 1896, by telegram and letter, acknowledged receipt of the bill of lading and bill of particulars, but, upon the
ground set up in his letter of June 27, 1896, declined to receive
the hops.
"At the time of the defendant's refusal to receive the shipment above mentioned, the plaintiffs could have made subcontracts for forward, delivery according to the contracts in suit,
at the price of nine cents per pound for ' prime Pacific Coast
hops of the crop of 1896,' and of eleven cents per pound for like
hops of the crop of 1897; and the difference between the prices
fixed by the contracts sued on and these above stated, together
with interest on the sum of such differences, from October 24,
1896, to this date, are as follows."
[Here followed the computation resulting in the amount for
which judgment was rendered.]
The opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals stated the case
thus:

ROEHM v. HORST.
Statement of the Case.

"In August, 1893, Paul R. G. Horst, E. Clemens Horst and
Louis A. Horst, trading as Horst Brothers, entered into a contract with John Roehm, the defendant below, for the sale of
one thousand bales of prime Pacific Coast hops, to be delivered
at various dates in the future, at an uniform price of twentytwo cents per pound. Of the whole quantity six hundred bales
had been delivered, accepted, and paid for at the contract price,
so that in July, 1896, there remained undelivered four hundred
bales. These were deliverable at the rate of twenty bales per
month during each month from October, 1896, to July, 1898,
both inclusive, excepting, however, from said period the months
of August and September, 1897, when no deliveries were called
for. The record shows that this contract was the result of one
negotiation, and provided for a supply of hops for five years.
Ten sepdrate papers were drawn, each covering a period of five
months or one season. They all bear the same date; are similar
as regards the qiantity of hops to be delivered, and the price to
be paid. They differ only in the time of delivery and the year's
crop from which delivery was to be made. In June, 1896, the
firm of Horst Brothers was dissolved by the retirement of Paul
R. G. Horst. He assigned his interest in the Roehm contract
to the remaining partners, who continued the business under
the same firm name. Roehm, the defendant below, was notified of this dissolution of the firm and of the transfer of Paul
IR. G. Horst's interest in the contract to its successors. He
thereupon gave notice to the firm that he considered his contract cancelled thereby. Subsequently the firm of Horst Brothers
advised the defendant of their ability and willingness to perform the contract, and under date of September 4, 1896, wrote
Roehm, as follows:
"'Dear Sir: Will you please write us whether you wish us
to ship the hops under your contract direct to your city. The
contract calls for delivery in New York, and as we ship direct
from this coast we can ship to either city at same rate. Conseqdently there will be a saving to you of freight if we ship to
your city direct from here. Awaiting your reply, we are,
"Very truly,
"'o

IROis'r BROTHERS!"

OCTOBER TERM, 1896.
Statement of the Case.

"To this letter Roehm replied, under date of September 14,
1896:
"' Dear Sirs: In response to your letters dated 3d & 4th inst.,
state that before shipping me any hops always send me samples
from which I can select lots, the same as you have been doing
in the past.
"'Very truly,
"'JON ROEEM.'
"On October 9, 1896, Horst Brothers advised Roehm of
twenty bales of hops per October delivery, as called for by the
contract, which Roehm, by telegraph, refused to receive, and as
supplementary thereto sent the following letter, dated October 24, 1896:
"'Gentlemen: Yours of October 9, enclosing bill of lading
and bill of particulars per twenty bales of hops forwarded me
under the terms of contract of August 23, 1893, was received,
and I have wired you that I decline to receive the same. I notified you under date of June 27, 1896, that, owing to the dissolution of the copartnership with which I originally contracted and
the fact that this firm was no longer in existence, I considered
my contract at an end, and will make arrangements for purchasing my supplies elsewhere. I am advised&that I am under
no obligations by that contract to accept supplies from you. If
you desire to bill these goods at the current market rate under
a new contract, I will accept them if upon inspection they are
of the quality desired ; otherwise they will remain at the freight
station subject to your order.
"'Very truly yours,
" 'JOHN ROEHN.'
"No further efforts were made by Iforst Brothers to make
delivery under the contract, but in January, 1897, this suit was
begun by all the original parties thereto, to the use of the firm as
at present constituted, to recover damages for its breach. Judgment was rendered in favor of the plaintiffs."
The contention that lRoehm was entitled to treat the contract
as determined by the retirement of one of the members of the

ROEHM v. HORST.
Opinion of the Court

firm of Horst Brothers, and the assignment of his interest to
his copartners, was not renewed in this court.
.M. Samuel -Dic son for Roehm.
Richard C. Dale were on his brief.

XMr'. R. 0. Moon and Mr.

..Mr'. Fran P. Prichardfor Horst and others.
A. Gar'ver was on his brief.
MR.CHIEF

XP. 'John

JusTcE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
It is conceded that the contracts set out in the finding of
facts were four of ten simultaneous contracts, for one hundred
bales each, covering the furnishing of-one thousand bales of hops
during a period of five years, of which six hundred bales had
been delivered and paid for. If the transaction could be treated
as amounting to a single contract for one thousand bales, the
breach alleged would have occurred while the contract was in
the course of performance; but plaintiffs' declaration or statement of demand averred the execution of the four contracts,
"two for the purchase and sale of Pacific Coast hops of the
crop of 1896, and two for the purchase and sale of Pacific Coast
hops of the crop of 1897," set them out in extenso, and claimed
recovery for breach thereof, and in this view of the case, while
as to the first of the four contracts, the time to commence performance had arrived, and the October shipment had been tendered and refused, the breach as to the other three contracts
was the refusal to perform before the time for performance had
arrived.
The first contract falls within the rule that a contract may be
broken by the renunciation of liability under it in the course
of performance and suit may be immediately instituted. But
the other three contracts involve the question whether, where
the contract is renounced before performance is due, and the
renunciation goes to the whole contract, and is absolute and
unequivocal, the injured party may treat the breach as complete and bring his action at once. Defendant repudiated all

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

liability for hops of the crop of 1896. and of the crop of 1897,
and notified plaintiffs that he should make (according to a letter
of his attorney in the record that he had made) arrangements
to purchase his stock of other parties, whereupon plaintiffs
brought suit. The question is, therefore, presented, in respect
of the three contracts, whether plaintiffs were entitled to sue at
once or were obliged to wait until the time came for the first
month's delivery under each of them.
It is not disputed that if one party to a contract has destroyed
the subject-matter, or disabled himself so as to make performance impossible, his conduct is equivalent to a breach of the
contract although the time for performance has not arrived;
and also that if a contract provides for a series of acts, and
actual default is made in the performance of one of them, accompanied by a refusal to perform the rest, the other party need
not perform, but may treat the refusal as a breach of the entire
contract, and recover accordingly.
And the doctrine that there may be an anticipatory breach
of an executory contract by an absolute refusal to perform it,
has become the settled law of England as applied to contracts
for services, for marriage, and for the manufacture or sale of
goods. The cases are extensively commented on in the notes
to Cutter v. Powell, 2 Smith's Leading Cases, 1212, 1220, 9th edition by Richard Henn Collins and Arbuthnot. Some of these,
though quite familiar, may well be referred to.
In Hocisterv. De la Tour, 2 El. & 131. 678, plaintiff, in April,
1852, had agreed to serve defendant, and defendant had undertaken to employ plaintiff, as courier, for three months from
June first, on certain terms. On the eleventh of May, defendant wrote plaintiff that he had changed his mind, and declined
to avail himself of plaintiff's services. Thereupon, and on
May twenty-second, plaintiff brought an action at law for breach
of contract in that defendant, before the said first of June,
though plaintiff was always ready and willing to perform, refused
to engage plaintiff or perform his promise, and then wrongfully
exonerated plaintiff from the performance of the -agreement, to
his damage. Andit was ruled that as there could be a breach of
contract before the time fixed for performance, a positive and

ROEH]M v. HORST.
Opinion of the Court.

absolute refusal to carry out the contract prior to the date of
actual default amounted to such a breach.
In the course of the argument, Mr. Justice Crompton observed: "When a party announces his intention not to fulfill
the contract, the other side may take him at his word and rescind the contract. The word ' rescind' implies that both par
ties have agreed that the contract shall be at an end as if it had
never been. But I am inclined to think that the party may
also say: ' Since you have announced that you will not go on
with the contract, I will consent that it shall be at an end from
this time; but I will hold you liable for the damage I have sustained; and I will proceed to make that damage as little as
possible by making the best use I can of my liberty.'"
In delivering the opinion of the court, (Campbell, 0. J., Coleridge, Erle and Crompton, JJ.), Lord Campbell, after pointing
out that at common law there were numerous cases in which
an anticipatory act, such as an act rendering the contract impossible of performance, or disabling the party from performing
it, would constitute a breach giving an immediate right of action, laid it down that a positive and unqualified refusal by one
party to carry out the contract should be treated as belonging
to the same category as such anticipatory acts, and said, p. 690:
"But it is surely much more rational, and more for the benefit of both parties, that, after the renunciation of the agreement
by the defendant, the plaintiff should be at liberty to consider
himself absolved from any future performance o( it, retaining
his right to sue for any damage be has suffered from the breach
of it. Thus, instead of remaining idle and laying out money
in preparations which must be Useless, he is at liberty to seek
service under another employer, which would go in mitigation
of the damages to which he would otherwise be-entitled, for a
breach of the contract. It seems strange that the defendant,
after renouncing the contract, and absolutely declaring that he
will never act under it, should be permitted ;o object that faith
is given to his assertion, and that an opportunity is not left to
him of changing his mind. If the plaintiff is barred of any
remedy by entering into an engagement inconsistent with starting as a courier with the defendant on the 1st of June, he is

OCTOBER TERiM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

prejudiced by putting faith in the defendant's assertion; and it
would be more consonant with principle, if the defendant were
precluded from saving 'that he had not broken the contract
when he declared that he entirely renounced it. Suppose that
the defendant, at the time of his renunciation, had embarked
on a voyage for Australia, so as to render it physically impossible for him to employ the plaintiff as a courier on the continent
of Europe in the months of June, July and August, 1852; according to decided cases, the action might have been brought
before the 1st of June; but the- renunciation may have been
founded on other facts, to be given in evidence, which would
equally have rendered the defendant's performance of the contract impossible. The man who wrongfully renounces a contract into which he has deliberately entered cannot justly complain. if he is immediately sued for a compensation in damages
by the man whom he has injured; and it seems reasonable to
allow an option to the -injured party, either to sue immediately,
or to wait till the time when the act was to be done, still holding it as prospectively binding for the exercise of this option,
which may be advantageous to -the innocent party, and cannot
be prejudicial to the wrongdoer. An argument against the
action before the 1st of June is urged from the difficulty of calculating the damages: but this argument is equally strong
against an action' before the 1st of September, when the three
months would expire. In either case, the jury in assessing the
damages would be justified in looking to all that had happened,
or was likely to happen, to increase or mitigate the loss of the
plaintiff down to the day of trial. We do not find any decision
contrary to the view we are taking of this case."
In ]Frost v. Xnig t, L. R. 7 Ex. 111, defendant had promised
to marry plaintiff so soon as his (defendant's) father should die.
While his father was yet alive he absolutely refused to marry
plaintiff, and it was held in the Exchequer Chamber, overruling
the decision of the Court of Exchequer, L. R. 5 Ex. 322, that
for this breach an action was well brought during the father's
lifetime. Cockburn, C. J., said: "The law with reference to a
contract to be performed at a future time, where the party
bound to performance announces prior to the time his intention

ROEHM v. HORST.
Opinion of the Court.

not to perform it, as established by the cases of Hochster v. De
la 'Tour, 2 E. & B. 678, and the Danube & Black Sea Company
v. Xenos, 13 0. B. (N. S.) 825, on the one hand, and Avery v.
Bowden, 5 E. & B. 714, .Reid v. Hoskins, 6 E. & B. 953, and
Barwick v. Buba, 2 C. B. (N. S.) 563, on the other, may be
thus stated. The promisee, if he pleases, may treat the notice
of intention as inoperative, and await the time when the contract is to be executed, and then hold the other party responsible for all- the consequences of nonperformance; but in that
case he keeps the contract alive for the benefit of the other
party as well as his own; he remains subject to all his own
obligations and liabilities under it, and enables the other party
not only to complete the contract, if so advised, notwitbstanding his previous repudiation of it, but also to take advantage of
any supervening circumstance which would justify him in declining to complete it. On the other hand, the promisee may,
if he thinks proper, treat the repudiation of the other party
as a wrongful putting an end to the contract, and may at
once bring his action as on a breach of it; and in such action
he will be entitled to such damages as would have arisen from
the nonperformance of the contract at the appointed time, subject, however, to abatement in respect of any circumstances
which may have afforded him the means of mitigating his loss."
The case of Danube Comn)any v. Xenos, 110. B. (N. S.) 152,
is stated in the headnotes thus: On the 9th of July, A, by his
agent, agreed to receive certain goods of B on board his ship to
be carried to a foreign port, -the shipment to commence on
the ist of August. On the 21st of July A wrote to B, stating
that he did not hold himself responsible for the contract, the
agent having no*authority to make it; and on the 23d he wrote
again offering a substituted contract, but still repudiating the
original contract. B by his attorneys gave A notice that he
should hold him bound by the original contract, and that, if he
persisted in refusing to perform it, he (B) should forthwith proceed to make other arrangements for forwarding the goods to
their destination, and look to him for any loss. On the 1st of
August, A again wrote to B, stating that he was then prepared
to receive the goods on board his ship, making no allusion to

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

the original cbntract. B had, however, in the meantime entered
into a negotiation with one S for the conveyance of the goods
by another ship, which negotiation ended in a contract for that
purpose with S on the 2d of August. B thereupon sued A for
refusing to receive the goods pursuant to his contract-; and A
brought a cross action against B for refusing to ship. Upon a
special case stating these facts: Held, that it was competent to
A to treat B's renunciation as a breach of the contract; and that
the fact of such renunciation afforded a good answer to the
cross action of A, and sustained B's plea that before breach A
discharged him from the performance of the agreement.
Erle, C. J., said (p. 175): "In Cort v. Ambergate Railway
Comycany, 17 Q. B. 127, it was held, that, upon the company
giving notice to Mr. Cort that they would not receive any more
of his chairs, he might abstain from manufacturing them, and
sue the company for the breach of contract without tendering
the goods for their acceptance. So, in Hochster v. De la Tour,
2 El. & Bl. 678, it was held that the courier whose services were
engaged for a period to commence from a future day, being told
before that day that they would not be accepted, was at liberty
to treat that as a complete breach, and to hire himself to another party. And the boundary is equally well ascertained on
the other side. Thus, in Avery v. Bowden, 5 El. & BI. 714; 6
El. & Bi. 953, where the agent of the charterer intimated to the
captain, that, in consequence of the breaking out of the war,
he would be unable to furnish him with a cargo, and wished
the captain to sail away, and the latter did not do so, it was
held not to fall within the principle already adveited to, and not
to amount to a breach or renunciation of the contract. But
where there is an explicit declaration by the one party of his
intention not to perform the contract on his part, which is accepted by the other as a breach of the contract, that beyond all
doubt affords a cause of action."
The case was heard on error in the Exchequer Chamber before
Cockburn, C. J., Pollock, C. B., Wightman, J., Crompton, J.,
Channel, B., and Wilde, B; and the judgment of the Common
Pleas was unanimously affirmed.. 13 0. B. (N. S.) 825.
In Johnstone v. .illing, 16 Q. B. Div. 467, Lord Esher, Mas-

ROEHM v. HORST.
Opinion of the Court

ter of the Rolls, puts the principle thus: "When one party assumes to renounce the contract, that is, by anticipation refuses
to perform it, he thereby, so far as he is concerned, declares his
intention then and there to rescind the contract. Such a. renuilciation does not of course amount to a rescission of the contract, because one party to a contract cannot by himself rescind
it, but by wrongfully making such a renunciation of the contract
he entitles the other party, if he pleases, to agree to the. contract being put an end to, subject to the retention by him of his
right to bring an action in respect of such wrongful rescission.
The other party may adopt such renunciation of the contract
by so acting upon it as in effect to declare that he too treats
the contract as at an end, except for the purpose of bringing an
action upon it for the damages sustained by him in consequence
of such renunciation."
Lord Justice Bowen said (p. 472): "We have, therefore, to
consider upon what principles and under what circumstances it
must be held that a promisee, who finds himself confronted
with a declaration of intention by the promisor not to carry out
the contract when*the time for performance arrives, may treat
the contract as broken, and sue for a breach thereof. It would
seem on principle that the declaration of such intention by the
promisor is not in itself and unless acted on by the promisee a
breach of the contract; and that it only becomes a breach when
it is converted by force of what follows it into a wrongful renunciation of the contract. Its real operation appears to be to
giye the promisee the right of electing either to treat the declaration as brutumfulmen, and holding fast to the contract, to
wait till the time for its performance has arrived, or to act upon
it, and treat it as a final assertion by the promisor that he is no
longer bound by the contract, and a wrongful renunciation of
the contractual relition into which he has entered. But such
declaration only becomes a wrongful act if the promisee elects
to treat it as such. If he does so elect, it becomes a breach of
contract, and he can recover upon it as such."
The doctrine which thus obtains in England has been almost
universally accepted by the courts of this country, although the
precise point has not been ruled by this court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

In Smoot's "Case,15 Wall. 36, 48, Mr. Justice Miller observed:
"In the case of Philpotts v. Evans, 5 M. & W. 475, the defendant, who had agreed to receive and pay for wheat, notified the
plaintiff, before the time of delivery, that he would not receive
it. The plaintiff tendered the wheat at the proper time, and
the only question raised was, whether the measure of damages
should be governed by the price of the wheat at the time of the
notice or at the time of the tender. Baron Parke said: I I think
no action would have lain for the breach of the contract at the
time of the notice, but that plaintiff was bound to wait until
the time of delivery to see whether the defendant would then
receive it. The defendant might. have chosen to take it and
would have been guilty of no breach of contract. His contract
was not broken by his previous declaration that he would not
accept.' And though some of the judges in the subsequent case
of Hohsterv. De a Tour, 2 El. & Bi. 678, disapproye very properly of the extreme ground taken by Baron Parke, they all
agree that the refusal to accept, on the part of the defendant,
in such case, must be absolute and unequivocal and must have
been acted on by the plaintiff."
In Zovell v. &. Louis Life Insurance Company, 111 U. S.
264, a life insurance cbmpany had terminated its business and
transferred its assets and policies to another company, and the
court held that this in itself authorized the insured to treat the
contract as at an end, and to sue to recover back the premiums
already paid, although the time for the performance of the obligation of the insurance company, to wit, the death of the insured, had not arrived. Mr. Justice Bradley, delivering the opinion of the court, said: "Our third conclusion is, that as the old
company totally abandoned the performance of its contract
with the complainant by transferring all its assets and obliga tions to the new company, and as the contract is executory in
its nature, the complainant had a right to consider it as determined by the act of the company, and to demand what was
justly due to him in that exigency. Of this we think there can
be no doubt. Where one party to an executory contract prevents the performance of it, or puts it out of his power to per-

ROEHM v. HORST.
Opinion of the Court.

form it, the other party may regard it as terminatod and demand whatever damages he has sustained thereby."
In Dingley v. Oler, 117 U. S. 490, it was held that the case
did not come within the rule laid down in ELochster v. De la
Tour,but within Avery v. Bowden and Johnstone v. .Xilling,
since, in the view eitertained by the court, ihere was not a renunciation of the contract by a total refusal to perform.
So in Cleveland Rolling .Aill v. Rhodes, 121 U. S. 255, 264,
involving a contract for the delivery of iron ore, the court said:
"The necessary conclusion is that the defendant was justified
in refusing to accept any of the iron shipped in 1881 ; and whether
the notice, previously given by the defendant to the plaintiff,
that it would not accept under the contract any iron made after
December 31, 1880, might have been treated by the plaintiffs
as a renunciation and a breach of the contract, need not be con:
sidered, because the plaintiffs did not act upon it as such."
In Anvil Xining Company v. Hfumble, 153 U. S.540, performance had been commenced, but completion was prevented
by defendant, and Mr. Justice Brewer, speaking for the court,
said: "Whenever one party thereto is guilty of such a breach
as is here attributed to the defendant, the other party is at liberty to treat the contract as broken and desist from any further
effort on his part to perform; in other words, he may abandon
it, and recover as damages the profits which he would have received through full performance. Such an abandonment is
not technically a rescission of the contract, but is merely an acceptance of the situation which the wrongdoing of the other
party has brought about."
In Pierce v. Tennessee Coal & Railroad Company, 173 U. S.
1, it was held that on discharge from a contract of employment,
the party discharged might elect to treat the contract as absolutely and finally broken, and in an action to recover the full
value of the contract to him at the time of the breach, including
all that he would have received in the future as well as in the
past, deducting any sum that he might have earned or that he
might thereafter earn; and Mr. Justice Gray said: "The plaintiff was not bound to wait to see if the defendant would change
its decision and take him back into its service; or to resort to

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

successive actions for damages from time to time; or to leave
the whole of his damages to be recovered by his personal representatives after his death. But he had the right to elect to
.treat the contract as absolutely and finally broken by the defendant; to maintain this action, once for all, as for a total
breach of the entire contract."
In Hancock v. _Yew Yorko Life Insurance ConTany, 11 Fed.
Cas. 402, HocE ter'v. .Do la Tour was followed by Bond, J., in
the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Virginia; and in
Grau v. .1c Ticker, 8 Biss. 13, Drummond, J., fully approved
of the principles decided in that case, and remarked: "It seems
to me that it is the better rule to hold that the party who has
refused to perform his contract is liable at once to an action,
and that whatever arises afterwards or may arise in consequence
of the time not having come or not having expired, should be
considered in estimating the damages."
Again, in Dingley v. Oler, 11 Fed. Rep. 372, Lowell, J., applied the rule in the Circuit Court for the District of Mlaine,
and, after citing J1ochster v. De la Tour, Frost v. Knight, and
other cases, said: "These cases seem to me to be founded in
good sense, and to rest on strong grounds of convenience, however difficult it may 'be to reconcile them with the strictest
logic." And see Foss Brewing Company v. Bullock, 16 U. S.
App. 311; JHines -Lumber Company v. Alley, 43 U. S. App.
169; M3arks v. 'Fan Eeghen, 51 U. S. App. 149.
The great weight of authority in the state courts is to the
same effect, as will appear by reference to the cases cited in the
margin.'
On the other hand, in Greenway v. Gaither, Taney, 227,

I Fox v. Kitton, 19 Ill. 518; Kadish v. Young, 108 Ill. 170; Roebling's
Sons' Co. v. Lock Co., 130 IlI. 660; Lake Shore B?. R. Co. v. Richards, 152"
Ill. 59; Burtis v. Thompson, 42 N. Y. 246; Windmuller v. Pope, 107 N. Y.
674; Mountjoy v. Metzger, 9 Phila. 10; Zuck v. McClure, 98 Penn. St. 541;
Hocking v. Hamilton, 158 Penn. St. 107; Dugan v. Anderson, 36 Maryland,
567; Hosmer v. Wilson, 7 Michigan, 294; Plattv. Brand, 26 Michigan, 173;
Crabtree v. Messersmith, 19 Iowa, 179; McCormick v. Basal, 46 Iowa, 235;
Kurtz v. Frank, 76 Indiana, 594; Cobb v. Hall, 33 Vermont, 233; Davis v.
Grand Rapids Co., 41 W. Va. 717; and other cases cited in the text books
and encyclopmdias.

ROEHM v. HORST.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Chief Justice Taney sitting on circuit in Maryland, declined
to apply the rule in that particular case. The cause was tried
in November, 1851, and more than two yeais after, at November term, 1853, application was made to the Chief Justice. to
seal a bill of exceptions. Hochster v. De la Tour was decided
in June, 1853, and the decision of the Circuit Court had apparently been contrary to the rule laid down in that case. The
Chief Justice refused to seal the bill, chiefly on the ground that
under the circumstances the application came too late, but also
on the ground that there was no error, as the rule was only applicable to contracts of the special character involved in that
case, and the Chief Justice said .as to the contract in hand, by
which defendant engaged to pay certain sums of money on
certain days: "It has never been supposed that notice to the
holder of a bond, or a promissory note, or bill of exchange,
that the party would not (from any cause) comply with the contract, would give to. the holder an immediate cause of action,
upon which he might sue before the time of payment arrived."
The rule is disapproved in Danielsv. Newton, 114 Mass. 530,
and in Stanford v. .McGill, 6 N. Dak. 536, on elaborate consideration. The opinion of Judge Wells in Daniels v. .L7ewton
is generally regarded as containing all that could be said in
opposition to the decision of Koc78ter V. De la Tour, and one
of the propositions on which the opinion rests is that the adoption of the rule in the instance of ordinary contracts would
necessitate its adoption in the case of commercial paper. But
we are unable to assent to that view. In the case of an ordinary money contract, such as a promissory note, or a bond, the
consideration has passed; there are no mutual obligations; and
cases of that sort do not fall within the reason of the rule.
In NArichols v. Scranton Steel Company, 137 N. Y. 471, 487,
Mr. Justice Peckham, .then a member of the Court of Appeals.
of New York, thus expresses the distinction: "It is not intimated that in the bald case of a party bound to pay a promissory note which rests in the hands of the payee, but which is
not yet due, such note can be made due by any notice of the
maker that he does not intend to pay it when it matures. We
decide simply this case where there are material provisions and
VoL, OLxxvIii-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

obligations interdependent. In such case, and where one party
is bound, from time to time, as expressed, to deliver part of an
aggregate and specified amount of property to another, who
is to pay for each parcel delivered at a certain time and in a
certain way, a refusal to be further bound by the terris of the
contract or to accept further deliveries, and a refusal to give
the notes already demandable for a portion of the property that
has been delivered, and a refusal to give any more notes at any
time or for any purpose in the future, or to pay moneys at any
time, which are eventually to be paid under the contract, all
this constitutes a breach of the contract as a whole, and gives
a present right of action against -the party so refusing to recover damages which the other may sustain by reason of this
refusal."
We think it obvious that both as to renunciation after commencement of performance- and renunciation before the time
for performance has arrived, money contracts, pure and simple,
stand on a different footing from executory contracts for the
purchase and sale of goods.
The other proposition on which the case of .Daniels v. Nfewton
was rested is that until the time for performance arrives, neither
contracting party can suffer any injury which can form a ground
of damages. Wells, J., said: "An executory contract ordinarily affords no title or interest in the subject matter of the
agreement. Until the time arrives when, by the terms of the
agreement he is or might be entitled to its performance, he can
suffer no injury or deprivation which can form a ground of
damages. There is neither violation of right, nor loss upon
which to found an action."
But there are many cases in which before the time fixed for
performance, one of the contracting parties may do that which
amounts to a breach and furnishes a ground of damages. It
has always been the law that where a party deliberately incapacitates himself or renders performance of his contract impossible, his act amounts to an injury to the other party, which
gives the other party a cause of action for breach of contract;
yet this would seem to be inconsistent with the reasoning in
Daniels v. ffewton, though it is not there in terms decided "that

ROEHM v. HORST.
Opinion of the Court.

an absolute refusal to perform a contract, after the time and
under the conditions in which plaintiff is entitled to require
performance, is not a breach of the contract, even although the
contract is by its terms to continue in the future." Parker v.
1?uesell, 133 Mass. 874.
In truth, the opinion goes upon a distinction between cases
of renunciation before the arrival of the time of performance
and those of renunciation of uninatured obligations of a contract while it is in course of performance, and it is said that
before the argument on the ground of convenience and mutual
advantage to the parties can properly have weight, "the point
to be reached must first be shown to be consistent with logical deductions from the strictly legal aspects of the case."
We think that there can be no controlling distinction on this
point between the two classes of cases, and that it is proper to
consider the reasonableness of the conclusion that the absolute
renunciation of particular contracts constitutes such a breach
as to justify immediate action and recovery therefor. The parties to a contract which is wholly executory have a right to
the maintenance of the contractual relations up to the-time for
performance, as well as to a performance of the contract when
due. If it appear that the party who makes an absolute refusal intends thereby to put an end to the contract so far as
performance is concerned, and that the other party must accept
this position, why should there not be speedy action and settlement in regard to the rights of the parties? Why should a
lot.slpenitenti be awarded to the party whose wrongful action
has placed the other at such disadvantage? What reasonable
distinction per se is there between liability for a refusal to perform future acts to be done under a contract in course of performance and liability for a refusal to perform the whole contract
made before the time for commencement of performance?
As Lord Chief Justice Cockburn observed, in Frostv.Knight,
the promisee has the right to insist on the contract as subsisting
and effective before the arrival of the time for its performance,
and its unimpaired and unimpeached efficacy may be essential
to his interests, dealing as he may with rights acquired under
it in various ways for his benefit and advantage. And of all

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

such advantage, the repudiation of the contract by the other
party, and the announcement that it never will be fulfilled, must
of course deprive him. While by acting on such repudiation
and the taking of timely measures, the promisee may in many
cases avert, or, at all events, materially lessen the injurious
effects which would otherwise flow from the nonfulfillment of
the contract.
During the argument of Cort v. Ambergae Railway Company,
17 Q. B. 127, Erle, J., made this suggestion: "Suppose the contract vas that plaintiff should send a ship to a certain port for
a cargo, and defendant should there load one on board; but
defendant wrote word that he could not furnish a cargo; must
the ship be sent to return empty?" And if it was not necessary for the ship owner to send his ship, it is not perceived
why he should be compelled to wait until the time fixed for the
loading of the ship at the remote port before bringing suit upon
the contract.
If in this case these ten hop contracts had been written into
6ne contract for the supply of hops for five years in instalments,
then when the default happened in October, 1896, it cannot be
denied that an immediate action could have been brought in
which damages could have been recovered in advance for the
breach of the agreement to deliver during the two remaining
years. iBut treating the four outstanding contracts as separate
contracts, why is it not equally reasonable that an unqualified
and positive refusal to perform them-constitutes such a breach
that damages could be recovered in an immediate action? Why
should plaintiff be compelled to bring four suits instead of one ?
For the reasons above stated, and having reference to the state
of the authorities on the subject, our conclusion is that the rule
laid down in .Hocketerv. De la Tour is a reasonable and proper
rule to be applied in this case and in many others arising out of
the transactions of commerce of the present day.
As to the question of damages, if the action is not premature,
the rule is applicable that plaintiff is entitled to compensation
based, as far as possible, on the ascertainment of what he would
have suffered by the continued breach of the other party down
to the time of complete performance, less any abatement by

ROEHM v. HORST.
Opinion of the Court.

reason of circumstances of which he ought reasonably to have
availed himself. If a vendor is to manufacture goods, and during the process of manufacture the contract is repudiated, he is
not bound to complete the manufacture, and estimate his damages by the difference between the market price and the contract price, but the measure of damage is the difference between
the contract price and the cost of performance. Hinckley v.
Pittsburg Company, 121 U. S. 264. Even if in such cases the
manufacturer actually obtains his profits before the time fixed
for performance, and recovers on a basis of cost which might
have been increased or diminished by subsequent events, the
party who broke the contract before the time for complete performance cannot complain, for he took the risk involved in such
anticipation. If the vendor has to buy instead of to manufacture, the same principle prevails, and he may show what was
the value of the contract by showing for what price he could
have made subcontracts, just as the cost of manufacture in the
case of a manufacturer may be shown. Although he may receive his money earlier in this way, and may gain, or lose, by
the estimation of his damage in advance of the time for performance, still, as we have seen, he has the right to accept the
situation tendered him, and the other party cannot complain.
In this case plaintiffs showed at what prices they could have
made subcontracts for forward deliveries according to the contracts in suit, and the difference between the prices fixed by the
contracts sued on and those was correctly allowed.
Judgment ajjil2med.

