OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Syllabus.

his debtor under the attachment issued on the judgment in his
favor in the state court.
As the judgment of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania
goes no further than to sustain the right of the plaintiff to have
the attachment served upon the receiver as garnishee, it is

Afirmed.
MR.JUSTICE WHITE dissented.

MOTES v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
INORTHERN DISTRICT OF ALABAMA.

No. 257. Submitted April 23, 1900.-Decfded May 21, 1900.

By the'Revised Statutes of the United States it is provided: "§ 5508. If
two or more persons conspire tb injure, oppress, threaten or intimidate
any citizen in the free exercise or enjoyment of any right or privilege
secured to him by the Constitution or laws of the United States, or because of his having so exercised the same; or if two or more persons go
in disguise on the highway, or on the premises of another, with intent
to prevent or hinder his free exercise or enjoyment of any right or privilege so secured, they shall be fined not more than five thousand dollars
and imprisoned not more than ten years; and shall, moreover, be thereafter ineligible to any office or place of honor, profit or trust created by
the Constitution or laws of the United States. § 5509. If in the act of
violating any provision in either of the two preceding sections, any other
felony or misdemeanor be committed, the offender shall be punished for
the same with such punishment as is attached to such felony or misdemeanor by the laws of the State in which the offence is committed."
Several persons were indicted under the above provisions in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Northern District of Alabama for the
crime of murder committed in execution of a conspiracy to injure, oppress, threaten and intimidate one Thompson because of his having in.
formed the United States authorities of violations by the conspirators of
the laws of the United States relating to distilling. In Alabama murder
in the first degree is punishable by death or imprisonment for life at the
discretion of the jury. At the preliminary trial before a United States
commissioner, Taylor, one of the accused, testified and his evidence was
put in writing and signed by him. It was sufficient, if accepted, to estab-

MOTES v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.
lish the guilt of all the defendants. The accused had opportunity to
cross-examine hi n. At the final trial in the Circuit Court, Taylor, who
had pleaded guilty, was called as a witness for the Government, but did
not respond. He had disappeared, although seen in the corridor of the
court-building about an hour before being called. His absence was.not
by the procurement or advice of the accused, but was due to the negligence of the officers of the Government The court, over the objections
of the accused, allowed Taylor's written statements made under oath at
the examining trial to be read in evidence to the trial jury. The accused were found guilty as charged in the indictment and sentenced to
the penitentiary for life. At the trial one of the accused testified and
stated that he and Taylor committed the murder; and that the other defendants knew nothing of it and had nothing to do with it. -eld:
(1) That no constitutional objection could beurged against sections 5508
and 5509;
(2) That under the act of January 15, 1897, c. 29, 29 Stat. 487, the Circuit Court could not have imposed the penalty of death for the
offence charged, but only imprisonment for life;
(3) That under the Circuit Court of Appeals Act, 1891, any criminal case
involving the construction or application of the Constitution of the
United States, can be brought after final judgment directly to this
court from the Circuit Court;
(4) That the admission as evidence of the written statements made by
Taylor at the examining trial was in violation of the rights of -the
accused under the clause of the Sixth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States declaring that in all criminal prosecutions
the accused shall enjoy the right to be confronted with the witness
against him;
(5) That the defendant who testified under.oath as to his guilt, and whose
testimony was sufficient to convict him, independently of Taylor's
written statement at the examining trial was not entitled to a reversal for the error committed in allowing that statement to be read,
because it couldI not have prejudiced him.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.

r. Lee Cowart for plaintiff in error.
.r.

A88istant Atorney GeneralBoyd for the United States.

MR. JUSTICE HERLA.N delivered the opinion of the court.
Columbus Winchester Motes, alias Chess Motes, Walter W.
Niotes, William Robert Taylor, Jasper Robinson, John Little-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

john and Mark Grant Blankenship were indicted in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern Division of the
Northern District of Alabama under sections 5508 and 5509 of
the Revised Statutes of the United States.
Those sections are as follows:
"5508. If two or more persons conspire to injure, oppress,
threaten or intimidate any citizen in the free exercise or enjoyment of any right or privilege secured to him by the Constitution or laws of the United States, or because of his having so
exercised the same; or if two or more persons go in disguise
on the highway, or on the premises of another, with intent to
prevent or hinder his free exercise or enjoyment of any right or
privilege so secured, they shall be fined not more than five
thousand dollars and imprisoned not more than ten years; and
shall, moreover, be thereafter ineligible to any office or place of
honor, profit, or trust created by the Constitution or laws of the
United States.
"§ 5509. If in the act of violating any provision in either of
the two preceding sections, any other felony or misdemeanor
be committed, the offender shall be punished for the same with
such punishment as is attached to such felony or misdemeanor
by the laws of the State in which the offence is committed."
The first count of the indictment charged in substance that
on the 14th day of March, 1898, and within the jurisdiction of
the court, the persons above named conspired to injure, oppress,
threaten and intimidate one W. A. Thompson, a citizen of the
United States, in the free exercise and enjoyment of a right
and privilege secured to him by the Constitution and laws of
the United States and because of his having exercised the
same, in that he had about the. 2d day' of October, 1897, informed one Robert A. Moseley, United States commissioner for
the Northern District of Alabama, that Bob Taylor, Chess
Motes, Ben Morris, Jasper Robinson and Walter Motes had
about the months of July, August, September, October, November and December, 1895, violated the internal -revenue laws
of the United States by unlawfully carrying on the business of
distillers without having given bond, as required by law, and
having in their possession and custody and under their control

MOTES v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the C6urt.

a still and distilling apparatus set up without having the same
registered. It was also charged that in furtherance of the conspiracy so formed and to effect the object thereof the accused
"did on, to wit, about the 14th of March, eighteen hundred
an& ninety-eight, go upon the highway and did then and there,
in the county of Talladega, in the State of Alabama, in the
southern division of the Northern District of Alabama, and
within the jurisdiction of said court, unlawfully, wilfully, premeditatedly, deliberately and with malice aforethought kill
and murder the said W. A. Thompson by shooting him with a
gun or guns, because he, the said W. A. Thompson, had reported
to the said Robert A. Moseley, United States Commissioner as
aforesaid, said violation of the internal revenue laws of the
United States by the said Bob Taylor, Chess Motes, Ben Morris, Jasper Robinson and Walter Motes, as aforesaid, contrary
to the form of the statute in such case made and provided and
against the peace and dignity of the United States of America."
The third count differed from the first one only in charging
a conspiracy, formed by the same persons, to injure, oppress,
threaten. and intimidate Thompson because of his having, about
March 8, 1898, informed a deputy collector of internal revenue
that Mark Grant Blankenship had,.about the above date, carried
on the business of distiller in violation of law; also, that to effect the object of that conspiracy, and because of Thompson
having given such information to the deputy collector of internal revenue, that the accused had unlawfully, wilfully, premeditately, deliberately and with malice aforethought, killed
and murdered him.
There are seven counts in the indictment, but the first and
third are sufficient to show the nature of the charges against
the accused and to bring out the questions disposed of by this
opinion.
It is recited in.
the bill of exceptions that Taylor pleaded
guilty, but the transcript does not contain any entry of record
showing subh to be the fact.
The jury found the "defendants Walter W. Motes, Columbus W. Motes, Jasper Robinson, John Littlejohn and Mark
Grant Blankenship guilty as charged in the indictment," and

OCTOBER TERI, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

in their verdict asked "the mercy of the court for the four defendants, Walter W. Motes, Jasper Robinson, John Littlejohn,
Mark Blankenship, and especially for John Littlejohn and Jasper Robinson."
Motions in arrest of judgment and for new trial were overruled, and judgment was entered upon the verdict, sentencing
the defendants other than Taylor to imprisonment in the penitentiary for life.
We have seen that by section 5508 of the Revised Statutes
it is made an offence against the United States for two or more
persons to conspire to injure, oppress, threaten or intimidate
any citizen in the free exercise or enjoyment of any right or
privilege secured to him by the Constitution or laws of the
United States-the punishment prescribed being a fine of Lnot
more than $5000, imprisonment not more than ten years and
ineligibility t; any office or place of honor, profit or trust created by the Constitution or laws of the United States. And by
section 5509 it is provided that if in committing the above offence any other felony or misdemeanor be committed, the offender shall suffer such punishment as is attached to such felony
or misdemeanor by the laws of the State in which the offence
is committed.
No questionhas been made-indeed none ,could successfully
be made-as to the constitutionality of these statutory provisions. Exparte Yarborough, 110 U. S. 651; UnitedStates v.
Waddell, 112 U. S. 16. Referring to those provisions and to
the clause of the Constitution giving Congress authority to pass
all laws necessary and proper for carrying into execution the
powers specifically granted to it, and all other powers vested
in the Government of the United States, or in any department
or officer thereof, this court has said. "In the exercise of this
general power of legislation, Congress may use any means, appearing to it most eligible and appropriate, which are adapted
to the end to be accomplished, and are consistent with the letter
and the.spirit of the Constitution." Logan v. Unitd States, 144
U. S. 263, 283, and authorities, there cited. It was the. right
and privilege of. Thompson, -in return for the protectioh he enjoyed under the Constitution and Yaws of the United States, to

MOTES v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

aid in the execution of the laws of his country by giving information to the proper authorities of violations of those laws.
That right and privilege may properly be said to be secured by
the Constitution and laws of the United States. And it was
competent for Congress.to declare a conspiracy to injure, oppress,
threaten or intimidate a citizen because of the exercise by him
of such right or privilege to be an offence against the United
States.
. The reference in the above sections to the laws of the State
in which the offence was committed makes it necessary to ascertain from the laws of Alabama what punishment could be
inflicted for the crime that was committed while the conspiracy
referred to in section 5508 was being carried into execution.
By the Code of Alabama it is provided (c. 158): "§ 4854.
Every homicide, perpetrated by poison, lying in wait, or any
other kind of wilful, deliberate, malicious and premeditated
killing; or committed in the perpetration of, or the attempt to
perpetrate, any arson, rape, robbery or burglary, or perpetrated from a premeditated design unlawfully and maliciously
to effect the death of any human being other .than him who is
killed; or perpetrated by any act greatly dangerous to the lives
of others, and evidencing a depraved mind regardless of human
life, although without any preconceived purpose to deprive any
particular person of life, is murder in the first degree; and
every other homicide, committed under such circumstances as
would have constituted murder at common law, is murder in
the second degree." "§ 4857. When the jury find the defendant guilty under an indictment for murder, they must ascertain, by their verdict, whether it is murder in the first or second
degree; but if the defendant on arraignment confesses his guilt,
the court must proceed to determine the degree of the crime,
by the verdict of a jury, upon an examination of the testimony, and pass sentence accordingly. § 4858. Any persoin,
who is guilty of murder in the first degree, must, on conviction,
suffer death or imprisonment in the penitentiary for life, at the
discretion of the jury; and any person who is guilty of murder
in the second degree must, on conviction, be imprisoned in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

penitentiary for not less than ten years, at the discretion of the
jury." Alabama Code (1896), vol 2, Criminal.
Taking these statutory provisions together, the question
-arises whether the court below had authority, in view of the
verdict of the jury-" guilty as charged in the indictment"to sentence the accused to imprisonment in the penitentiary for
life. The contention of the accused is that it was for the jury
to indicate by their verdict the punishment to be imposed by
the court, and that the court was without power to act until
the jury indicated the degree of the crime committed.
It is true that the crime charged against, the accused was
what is made by the laws of Alabama murder in the first degree, such offence being punishable with death or imprisonment
in the penitentiary for life. And in that State it is the duty of
the jury to. ascertain by their verdict whether the offence
charged was murder in the first or second degree. As therefore under the laws of Alabama, it was in the discretion of the
jury, and not for the court, to say whether murder in the first
degree should be punished by death or by imprisonment for
life, and as the verdict of the jury did not indicate the mode
of punishment, there would have been some difficulty in giving
effect to that clause of section 5509 of the Revised Statutes of
the United States, subjecting the accused to such punishment
as is attached by the laws of the State in which the offence is
committed, but for recent legislation by Congress.
The legislation to which we refer is found in sections one, two
and three of the act of January 15, 1897, c. 29, which provides:
"1§ 1. That in all cases where the accused is found guilty of the
crime of murder or of rape under sections 5339 or 5345, Revised Statutes, the jury may qualify their verdict by adding
thereto ' without capital punishment;' and whenever the jury
shall return a verdict qualified as aforesaid the person convicted
shall be sentenced to imprisonment at hard labor for life. § 2.
.That except offences mentioned in sections 5332, 1342, 1624,
5339 and 5345, Revised Statutes, when a person is convicted of
any offence to which the punishment of death is now specifically
affixed by the laws of the United States, he shall be sentenced
.to imprisonment at hard labor for life, and when any person is

MOTES v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

convicted of an offence to which the punishment of death, or a
lesser punishment, in the discretion of the court, is affixed, the
maximum punishment shall be imprisonment at hard labor for
life. § 3. That the punishment of death prescribed for any
offence specified by the statutes of the United States, except
in sections 5332, 1342, 1624, 5339 and 5345, Revised Statutes,
is hereby abolished, and all laws and parts of laws inconsistent
with this act are hereby repealed." 29 Stat. 487.
It will be observed that by section 3 of this act (which is the
latest statute on the subject) the death penalty is abolished in
all cases of offences against the United States except those referred to in certain sections which do not embrace the present
case. It was not therefore in the power of the court below to
have sentenced the plaintiffs in error to suffer death for the
crime of murder committed in the prosecution of the conspiracy
which is made by section 5908 an offence against the United
States. But we are to determine the scope of section 5509 in
connection with the act of 1897. Under that act the punishment of death could not be inflicted except in the cases specified. So that section 5509 is to be enforced as if it declared that
the offence therein prescribed should be punished in such mode
as was consistent with the laws-:of Alabama, provided-such is
the effect of the act of Congress of January 15, 1897-the accused should not for any offence covered by that section be
subjected to the penalty of death. The provision in the Code
of Alabama giving the jury discretion to affix the puhiishment of
death or imprisonment for life in cases of murder in the first
degree can have no application here, because the act of 1897
forbade the former mode of punishment in such a case as the
present one. When, therefore, the jury. found the defendants
guilty as charged in the indictment, they found them guilty of
what, under the laws of Alabama, was murder in the first degree, and they were sentenced by the Circuit Court of the
United States to suffer imprisonment for life which those laws
authorized in cases of that character. This was a substantial
compliance with the provisions of sections 5508 and 5509 of the
Revised Statutes.
It results that the Circuit Court imposed the only punishment
vol'. OlXXVM-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

authorized by the laws of the United States for the crime of
which the defendants were found guilty.
To avoid misapprehension it should be said in this connection
that the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction of this case simply as
one of murder committed within the limits of the State, but
only as one of conspiracy, under the act of Congress, accompanied by murder.
The Assistant Attorney General suggests as worthy of consideration whether, under this interpretation of the statutes,
the present case can be brought here directly from the Circuit
Court. This suggestion is based upon the provision in the act
of January 20, 1897, c. 68, which withdraws from the consideration of this court, upon appeal or writ of error direct from
the Circuit Court, cases of conviction of infamous crimes not
capital, and gives jurisdiction in such cases, upon appeal or writ
of error, only to the proper Circuit Court of Appeals; and it
is assumed that no criminal case can, upon any ground,. be
brought here directly from a Circuit Court of the United States,
unless it be a case of conviction of a capital crime.

29 Stat.

492. But such is not the law. Among other cases, this court,
under the act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 826, c. 517, establishing Circuit Court of Appeals, can take cognizance of a
criminal case, upon writ of error to review the judgment of a
Circuit Court, when the case really "involves the construction
or application of the Constitution of the United States." That
act does not make a distinction between civil and criminal
causes such as is implied by the above suggestion of the Government. At the present term of this court we have taken
cognizance of a criminal case involving a misdemeanor, brought
here directly from a Circuit Court of the United States. Rider
et al. v. United States, ante, 251. And we had previously in
United States v. Rider,'163-.. S.132, 138, said: "By section
six [of the Circuit Court of Appeals Act] the judgments or decrees 6f the Circuit Courts of Appeals were made final 'in all
cases arising under the criminal laws,' and in certain other
classes of cases, unless questions were certified to this court or
the whole case ordered up by writ of certiorari as therein provided. American Construction Co. v. Jacksonville Railway Co.,

MOTES v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

158 "U. S. 372, 380. Thus appellate jurisdiction was given
in all criminal cases by writ of error either from this court
or from the Circuit Court of Appeals, and in all civil cases by
appeal or writ of error without regard to the amount in controversy, except as to appeals or writs of error to or from the
Circuit Courts of Appeals in cases not made final as specified
in § 6." We further said in that case that the object of the act
of March 3, 1891, c. 517, was to distribute between this court
and the Circuit Courts of Appeals the entire appellate jurisdiction over the Circuit Courts of the United States.
The present case does involve the construction and application of ihe Constitution of the United States. It is necessary to determine whether the admission of certain testimony
was not an infringement of rights secured to the accused by
the Sixth Amendment of the Constitution, declaring that "in
all criminal prosecutions the accused shall enjoy the right
.

.

.to

be confronted with the witnesses against him."

It appears from the bill of exceptions that the Government
offered to read to the jury the written statement of William
Robert Taylor, taken in a preliminary examination before United
States Commissioner Wilson of the case of the United States
against Columbus W. Motes, William Robert Taylor, John Littlejohn and Dodge Blackenship. For the purpose of "laying a
predicate" for offering that statement in evidence, Captain B.
W. Bell was examined. He testified "that he was a special
officer of the Department of Justice; that he had been engaged
in working up the cases against these defendants and preparing
them for trial; that in August, 1898, he caused the arrest of
said William Robert Taylor and also Columbus W. Motes, John
Littlejohn and Dodge Blankenship, on a charge of conspiracy
and murder of W. A Thompson, and that on the 19th day of
August, 1898, during and on the second day of their preliminary trial, one of the defendants, William Robert Taylor, voluntarily became a witness for the prosecution, and made a statement implicating in said murder Columbus W. Motes, John
Littlejohn and Dodge Blankenship, who were at that time having their preliminary hearing before said commissioner, and also
implicating in said murder Walter W. Motes and Jasper Rob-

OTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

inson, who had been brought to said preliminary trial as witnesses for the Government, and that on the second day of said
preliminary trial he (Bell) caused the arrest of the said Walter
W. Motes and Jasper Robinson; that Taylor and the other
three defendants on trial with him were held for trial by the
commissioner and committed to jail without bail to await trial,
and that since that time the said Taylor has been confined in
the Jefferson County, Alabama, jail under commitment issued
by said commissioner; that after the beginning of the present
trial on the 20th of September, 1898, he went to the jail, took
said Taylor into his custody more than two days before said
Taylor escaped, and that said Taylor had not been in jail since,
but that be had placed him in charge of one Ed. May, a witness
for the Government in this case, and instructed May to let Taylor stay at the hotel at night with his family, and that in pursuance of said instruction Taylor remained at the hotel Tuesday night and Wednesday night before he absconded on Thursday; that he saw Taylor in the corridors of the court room
about 10 o'clock A. m. Thursday, before he was called as a witness, about 11 o'clock the same day, and that when Taylor
failed to respond he made a search for him in the city of Birmingham, and telegraphed to several places, and could not find
him or learn anything at all as to his whereabouts." Bell further testified that on the preliminary trial before H. A. Wilson,
United States commissioner, "Walter W. Motes and Jasper
Robinson were arrested during the frial of the other defendants,
Columbus W. Motes, John Littlejohn and Dodge Blankenship,
said Taylor having implicated them in his testimony upon said
trial. The defendants were all represented upon said preliminary trial by Mr. Lee Cowart. Mr. Cowart cross-examined the
witness, as shown in the testimony; that all of the defendants,
including the said Walter W. Motes and Jasper Robinson, had
an opportunity to cross-examine the said witness Taylor, and
he, in fact, was cross-examined by Mr. Cowart, acting either as
attorney for Columbus W. Motes, John Littlejohn and Dodge
Blankenship, or for all the defendants; that said cross-examination was reduced to writing; that he (said Bell) had never made
or offered the said Taylor any inducements, promises, reward or

MOTES v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

hope, to induce him to make said statement; that before said
Taylor was examined as a witness on the said preliminary trial
he, was taken to the office of the United States attorney, who
cautioned him to make no statement unless it was'purely voluntary, and told him emphatically that he could make no promise and offer him no hope whatever, and that said Taylor stated
that he made the statement voluntarily and to relieve his own
mind."
The United States marshal testified on behalf of United
States that he had instructed his deputies that Taylor had escaped; that he had offered a reward of two hundred dollars for
his arrest; that he had made diligent search in the city of Birmingham for Taylor, and could not learn anything as to his
whereabouts. The chief of police of the city of Birmingham
testified that he had not been officially notified that Taylor had
escaped, but that he had seen something concerning it in the
newspapers, and that he had made no special effort to arrest him
and had no information as to his whereabouts. The United
States then offered as a witness a deputy sheriff, who testified
that the sheriff of Jefferson County and his deputies had been
on the lookout for Taylor ever since his absence was known;
that they had had photographs taken of him and sent them to
various places, and that the deputies had been on the lookout
for him all over Birmingham and other parts of Jefferson
County, and that they had been unable to find him anywhere.
The Government introduced as a witness H. A. Wilson, who
testified as follows: "I am a United States commissioner and
held the preliminary trial in the case against these defendants
on the 18th and 19th days of August, 1898. The defendants
Columbus W. Motes, William Robert Taylor, John Littlejohn
and Dodge 'Blankenship were brought before me upon a warrant issued on affidavit before United States Commissioner
R. A. Moseley, Jr., by special officer Bell. Jasper Robinson and
Walter W. Motes were present in court while the case was
being heard. William Robert Taylor, one of the defendants,
during the trial proposed to make a statement in the nature of
a confession. I cautioned -him, and told him that he could not
be made to testify unless he chose to do so, and asked him if

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

any inducement or promise had been made or offered to him.
He said there had not; that the statement was voluntary, and
he made it to relieve his mind. Walter W. Motes and Jasper
Robinson were present in court as defendants at the time, as
well as the other defendants who were on trial. I swore Wilhiam Robert Taylor as a witness, administering to him the usual
oath. He was then examined, and his testimony was committed
to writing. I identify this statement (referring to the evidence
of Taylor here handed to the witness) as the evidence taken
before me. In his testimony, as is shown and as was the fact,
he implicated the defendants Jasper Robinson and Walter W.
Motes, who were arrested then and there. The defendants
Columbus W. Motes, Blankenship and Littlejohn were represented by Mr. Cowart, and.so were the defendants Walter W.
Motes and Jasper Robinson as soon as they were arrested, and
the trial of the four defendants then on trial, to wit, Columbus
W. Motes, William Robert Taylor, John .Littlejohn and Dodge
Blankenship, was proceeded with and concluded in the presence
of the defendants Jasper Robinson and Walter W. Motes. Mr.
Cowart, as a matter of fact, did cross-examine the witnesses, as
is shown by this testimony and as I recollect it, and all of the
defendants, including Walter W. Motes and Jasper Robinson
were allowed by me an opportunity to cross-examine, although
no separate trial was had, and all of these were examined without bail."
The testimony or statement given by Taylor at the preliminary trial of part of the defendants was then read in evidence by
the Government, the accused objecting on the ground that a
sufficient predicate had not been made for its introduction; but
the objection was overruled and an exception taken. The defendants Walter W. Motes and Jasper Robinson severally objected to the reading of Taylor's statement against them on
the ground that they were not on preliminary trial at the time
the testimony was taken, were not parties to the case then being tried, and had not legally been called upon to cross-examine
the witness. Those objections were also overruled, and an exception was taken:
Taylor's statement was lengthy, and showed a cross-examina-

MOTES v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

tion or an opportunity for the cross-examination of Taylor by
the present defendants. It was quite sufficient, if accepted by
the jury as true, to establish the guilt of some if not of all the
accused. It is important to observe that at the time Taylor's
statement was offered in evidence there had been no proof
whatever of the conspiracy charged. Conspiracy was the basis
of the prosecution; for in the absence of a conspiracy, in the
carrying out of which the alleged murder was committed, the
prosecution must have failed; the crime of murder, apart from
the conspiracy to deprive a citizen of a right or privilege secured
by the Constitution and laws of the United States, being punishable only by the State.
We are of opinion that the admission in evidence of Taylor's
statement or deposition taken at the examining trial was in violation of the constitutional right of the defendants to be confronted with the witnesses against them. It did not appear that
Taylor was absent from the trial by the suggestion, procurement
or act of the accused. On the contrary, his absence was manifestly due to the negligence of the officers of the Government.
Taylor was a witness for the prosecution.. He had been committed-to jail without bail. We have seen that the official
agent of the United States in violation of law took him from
jail after the trial of this case commenced, and, strangely enough,
placed him in charge not of an officer but of another witness
for the Government with instructions to the latter to allow him
to stay at a hotel at night with his family. And on the very
day when Taylor was called as a witness, and within an hour
of being called, he was in the corridor of the court house.
When called to testify he did not appear.
In .Reynolds v. United States, 98 U. S. 145, 158, 159, which
was an indictment for bigamy committed in Utah-the prosecution being under section 5352 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States-the trial court admitted proof of what a witness
had stated on a former trial of the accused for the same offence
but under a different indictment. This court said: "The Constitution gives the accused the right to a trial at which he
should be confronted with the witnesses against him; but if a
witness is absent by his own wrongful procurement, he cannot

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

complain if competent evidence is admitted to supply the place
of that which he has kept away. The Constitution does not
guarantee an accused person against the legitimate consequences
of his own wrongful acts. It grants him the privilege of being
confronted with the witnesses against-him; but if he voluntarily
keeps the.witnesses away, he cannot insist on his privilege. If,
therefore, when absent by his procuremeit, their evidence is
supplied in some lawful way, he is in no condition to assert that
his constitutional rights have been violated." In that case reference was made to several authorities, American and English,
and the court further said: "The rule has its foundation in the
maxim that no one shall be permitted to take advantage of his
own wrong; and, consequently, 'if there has not been, in legal
contemplation, a wrong committed, the way has not been opened
for the introduction of the testimony."
In his Treatise on Constitutional Limitations, Cooley, after
observing that the testimony for the people in criminal cases
can only, as a general rule, be given by witnesses in court, at
the trial, says: "If the witness was sworn before the examining magistrate, or before a coroner, and the accused bad an opportunity then to cross-examine him, or if there we're a former
trial on which he was sworn, it seems allowable to make use of
his deposition, or of the minutes of his examination, if the witness has since deceased, or is insane, or sick and unable to testify, or has been summoned but appears to have been kept away
by the opposite party." Cooley's Const. Lim. (2d ed.) *318.
In legina v. Scaife, 2 Den. Or. 0. 281; 285, 286; S. C. 17
Q. B. 238; 5 Cox Cr. 0. 243, which was an indictment against
three persons for a felony, it appeared that a witness had been
kept out of the way by the procurement of one of the accused,
and the question was whether the prosecution could use the
deposition of the absent witness taken before magistrates in the
mode directed by 11 & 12 Vict. c. 42, § 17. It was held by all
the judges that the deposition was not admissible against a defendant who had not caused the absence of the witness. Lord
Campbell, C. J., said: "I am of opinion that the rule for a new
trial must be made absolute. Evidence having been given that
the defendant Smith had resorted to a contrivance to keep the

MOTES v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

witness out of the way, the deposition was admissible against
him; but it was not admissible against the other defendants,
there being no evidence to connect them with the contrivance.
The learned judge, Cresswell, J., in his summing up to the jury,
seems to have made no distinction as to the duty of the jury to
consider the deposition of the absent witness as evidence against
the defendant Smith alone, and not as against the others. The
question then is, whether such a deposition is admissible against
a prisoner without proof that the deponent has been kept away
by his contrivance or without proof of the death of the witness.
No case has yet gone so far; and I should be afraid to lay
down a rule which would deprive a prisoner of the advantage
of having a witness for the prosecution against him examined
and cross-examined before the jury, upon every matter that
may be material to his defence. I, therefore, think that the
deposition was improperly admitted against Scaife and Rooke,
and that there should be a new trial." Patteson, J.-"The
deposition of the absent witness, Sarah Ann Garnett, was admissible as against the defendant Smith, by whose contrivance
she was kept out of the way, but it ought to have been applied
to the case against him only, and not to the case against the
other prisoners. No such distinction appears to have been
made at the trial, but the evidence was allowed to go to the
jury generally against all the prisoners, it being assumed, without any evidence whatever to support the assumption, that they
all were connected with the contrivance to keep the witness
out of the way:" Coleridge, J.-"Before the enactment of
11 & 12 Vict. c. 42, I always understood the law was, that if a
witness were absent, either by reason of the death of the witness,
or by the procurement of the prisoner, the deposition was receivable in evidence against him. But I believe these were the
only two cases where the absence of a witness let in his depositions. Absences from every other cause were within the same
category, and did not render them admissible. The seventeenth
section of the recent statute took another case-where a witness
was proved to be so ill as to be unable to travel-out of one
category and put it into another."
In the present case there was not the slightest ground in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

evidence to suppose that Taylor had absented himself from the
trial at the instance, by the procurement or with the assent of
either of the accused. Nor (if that were material) did his disappearance occur so long prior to his being called as a witness
as to justify the conclusion that he had gone out of the State
and was. permanently beyond the jurisdiction of the court.
His absence, as already said, was plainly to be attributed to
the negligence of the prosecution. The case is not within any
of the recognized exceptions to the general rule prescribed in
the Constitution.
It is suggested that the action of the Circuit Court was in
harmony with the decisions of the Supreme Court of Alabama.
-Lowev. State, 86 Ala. 47; _Pruitt v. State, 92 Ala. 41. We have
examined the cases in that court to which attention has been
called, and do not think they sustain the ruling of the court
below under the circumstances disclosed by this record. But
the question cannot be made to depend upon the rules of crimiz
nal evidence prevailing in the courts of the State in which the
crime was committed. It must be determined with reference
to the rights of the accused as secured by the Constitution of
the United States. That instrument must control the action
of the courts of the United States in all criminal prosecutions
before them. We are unwilling to hold it to be consistent
with tue constitutional requirement that an accused shall be
confronted with the witnesses against him, to permit the deposition or statement of an absent witness (taken at an examining
trial) to be read at the final trial when it does not appear that
the witness was absent by the suggestion, connivance or procurement of the accused, but does appear that his absence was
due to the negligence of the prosecution. We need not decide
more in the presentcase.
For the error referred to the judgment of .the Circuit Court
must be reversed as to all the plaintiffs in error and a new
The case as
trial awarded, except as to Columbus W. 'otes.
to him rests upon peculiar grounds, because of his testimony
on behalf of the accused at the final trial. He testified: "My
name is Columbus W. Motes; 1 am about thirty years old. I
know the defendants who are on trial for the murder of W. A.

MOTES v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Thompson; I knew Thompson, aid know when and where he
was killed; I also know who killed him. He was killed on
March 14th last, near his home, by myself and William Robert Taylor. No other person had anything whatever to do with
it. I went to Taylor's house on March 13th, 1898; just after he
had returned from Birmingham, where he had been attending
the United States court as defendant. We were both under
indictment in the United States court at Birmingham for illicit
distilling. Taylor attended court and I did not. W. A. Thompson was a witness against both of us, but I did not know who
reported us. Taylor told me on the 13th of March, the day he
got home from the United States court at Birmingham, that he
got our cases continued on March 12th, 1898, until the next term
of the court. We then and there agreed to kill Thompson to
keep him from appearing as a witness against us at the next
term of the court. We agreed to kill him on the next day as
he came from Sylacauga., so the neighbors would think he was
killed by Dodge Blankenship and Ad Smith, who only a few
days before that time had been arrested and bound over for
illicit distilling. We took my gun, a rifle, and Went to the
place where we knew Thompson would pass and waited until
he came along. Taylor shot him three times with the rifle. I
was watching, according to the agreement between us, to see
if any person saw us. The third shot is the one that killed
him. The bullet entered his forehead. After we killed him,
which was about the middle of the evening, we got his money
out of his pockets, eighteen dollars, ll in two-dollar bills,
and the next morning we hid it in a tree near Taylor's house.
Neither Jbhn Littlejohn, Dodge Blankenship, Walter Motes or
Jasper knew anything about our plans to kill Thompson, were
not present when he was killed, and had nothing whatever to
do with the murder."
In this evidence the jury had conclusive proof of the guilt
of Columbus W. Motes of the crime charged in the indictment. The admission of the statement of Taylor in evidence
was, therefore, of no consequence as to him; for in his own
testimony enough was stated to require a verdict of guilty as
to him, even if the jury had disregarded Taylor's statements

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Syllabus.

altogether. We can therefore say, upon the record before us,
that the evidence furnished by Taylor's statement was not so
materially to the prejudice of Columbus W. Motes as to justify
a reversal of the judgment as to him. It would be trifling with
the administration of the criminal law to award him a new trial
because of a particular error committed by the trial court, when
in effect he has stated under oath that he was guilty of the charge
preferred against him.
It is proper to say that there are other questions of a serious
character raised by the assignment of errors. But as those
questions may not arise upon another trial, we do not now
consider them.
The judgment as to Columbus Winchester .otes is affrmed,
but the judgment as to all the other plainifs in error is
reversed, with directions to grant a new trial and for fJurther proceedings consistent with this opinion.

HAWLEY v. DILLER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCURI

COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 116. Submitted February 2, 1900.-Decided Way 28, 1900.
An applicant for public land under the act of Congress of June 3, 1878,
29 Stat. 89, c. 151, kinown as the Timber and Stone Act, must support his
h
application by an affidavit stating that "l e does not apply to purchase
the same on speculation, but in good faith to appropriate it to his own
exclusive use and benefit; and that he has not, directly or indirectly,
made any agreement or contract, in any way or manner, with any person
or persons whatsoever, by which the title which he might acquire from
the Government of the United States should inure, in whole or in part,
to the benefit of any person except himself; which statement must be
verified by the oath of the applicant before the register or receiver of the
land office within the district where the land is situated." The same act
provides: "If any person taking such oath shall swear falsely in the
premises, he shall be subject to all the pains and penalties of perjury,
and shall forfeit the money which he may have paid for said lands, and

