OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

not assert there was any,) the court decided, as an independent
ground of estoppel, that plaintiff'was guilty of laches, and that
was sufficient to sustain its judgment.
The case must, therefore, be dismissed for want of jurisdiction, and it is so ordered.

CORRALITOS COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE-COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 267. Submitted April 24, 1900.- Decided Bray 28, 1900.
The appellant herein filed its original petition in the Court of Claims against
the United States and the Apache Indians on September 6, 1892. Subsequently and by leave of court an amended petition was filed March 2,
1894, from which it appears that the petitioner is a corporation chartered
under the laws of the State of New York and doing business in the state
of Chihuahua, county of Guleana, Republic of Mexico, and that property
to the value of nearly seventy-five thousand dollars, belonging to the
petitioner, and situated at the time in the Republic of Mexico, was taken
therefrom in 1881 and 1882, and stolen and carried off by the Apache Indians, then in amity with the United States, and brought from the Republic of Mexico into the United States. By virtue of the act of Congress
entitled "An act to provide for the adjudication and payment of claims
arising from Indian depredations," approved March 3, 1891, judgment
for the value of the property thus taken by the Indians was demanded.
The United States filed a plea in bar, alleging that the claimant ought
not to have and maintain its suit, "because the depredation complained
of is alleged to have occurred in the Republic of Mexico, beyond the
jurisdiction of the United States and the courts thereof, and that the
court, therefore, had no jurisdiction to entertain this suit." The plaintiff demurred to the plea in bar as bad in substance. The Court of Claims
overruled the demurrer, sustained the plea in bar, and dismissed the petition. Held that the judgment of the Court of Claims was right, and it
must be affirmed.

THE appellant herein filed its original petition in the Court
of Claims against the United States and the Apache Indians on
September 6, 1892. Subsequently and by leave of court an
amended pdtition was filed March 2, 1894, from which it ap-

CORRALITOS COMPANY. v.UNITED STATES.

281

Opinion of the Court.

pears that the petitioner is a corporation chartered under the
laws of the State of New York and doing business in the state
of Chihuahua, county of Guleana, Republic of Mexico, and tliat
property to the value of nearly seventy-five thousand dollars,
belonging to the petitioner, and situated at the time in the Republic of Mexico, was taken therefrom in 1881 and 1882, and
stolen and carried off by the Apache Indians, then in amity
with the United States, and brought from the Republic of Mexico into the United States. By virtue of the act of Congress
entitled "An act to provide for the adjudication and payment
of claims arising from Indian depredations," approved March 3,
1891, c. 538, 26 Stat. 851, judgment for the value of the property thus taken by the Indians was demanded.
The United States filed a plea in bar, alleging that the claimant ought not to have and maintain its suit, "because the depredation complained of is alleged to have occurred in the Republic of Mexico, beyond the jurisdiction of the United States
and the courts thereof, and that the court, therefore, had no'
jurisdiction to entertain this suit."
The plaintiff demurred to the plea in bar as bad in substance.
The Court of Claims overruled the demurrer, sustained the
plea in bar, and dismissed the petition. 33 0. C1. 342. The
petitioner appealed from that judgment to this court.
.7k&. John Critcher for appellant.
.Mr.
Assistant Attorney General Thompson and Afr. Lincoln
B. Smith for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, after stating the foregoing facts, delivered the opinion of the court.
The very satisfactory opinion of the Court of Claims in this
case leaves little to be said by us in affirming the judgment of
that court.
It would require very plain language from Congress by which
to impose a liability on the part of the United States for the
seizure or stealing by Indians of property belonging to a citizen

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

of the United States, but situated at the time of such seizure or
stealing within the confines and jurisdiction of a foreign sovereignty. Generally the government admits no liability for the
destruction of the property of its citizens by third parties, even
when it occurs within the limits of the United States. Still
less reason would exist for the acknowledgment of any such
liability for property of its citizens destroyed or stolen within
the limits and under the jurisdiction of a foreign -nation.
Upon proof of the existence of certain facts the United States,
however, at an early day admitted an exceptional liability in
favor of its citizens whose property within the United States
' had been destroyed by friendly Indians. By chapter 30 of the
act of May 19, 1796, 1 Stat. 469, provision was made for a
boundary line to be established between the United States and
various Indian tribes, which was to be clearly ascertained and
distinctly marked; and by section 14 of that act it was provided: "That if any Indian or Indians belonging to any tribe
in amity with the United States shall come over or across the
said boundary line, into any State or Territory inhabited by
citizens of the United States, and there take, steal or destroy
any horse, horses or other property, belonging to any citizen
or inhabitant of the United States, or of either of the territorial
districts of the United States," then, in such case, it was made
the duty of such citizen to make application to the superintendent, or such other person as the President of the United States
should authorize for that purpose, who, buing furnished with
the necessary documents and proofs, and .under the direction
of the President, vas to make application to the nation or tribe
to which the Indian or Indians belonged fir satisfaction, and
provision was made for obtaining the same, if possible.
The section contained a provision that "In the meantime, in
respect to the. property so taken, stolen or destroyed, the United
States guarantee to the party injured an eventual indemnification."
No particular method was provided for obtaining such indemnification, and it i ested with Congress when and how to
make it.
The property mentioned in this section, it will be seen, is

CORRALITOS COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.

283

Opinion of the Court.

property in any State or Territory of the United States, and it
must have been stolen or destroyed by Indians belonging to a
tribe in amity with the United States, who had come over, or
across, the boundary line mentioned in the first section of the
statute. The language of the statute is plainly confined to the
destruction or stealing of property situated at the time within
a State or Territory of the United States. The statute acknowledges and provides for no responsibility or liability for
property of citizens- of the United States situated within the
domain of a foreign State at the time of its seizure or destruction.
By the act approved March 30, 1802, c. 13, 2 Stat. 139, a
boundary line was again established between the United States
and various Indian tribes, and the fourteenth section of. that
act again. provided for an eventual indemnification by the
United States for property lost under the same conditions as
were stated in the act of 1796, and no liability was acknowledged, or provided, for any loss or destruction of property outside and beyond the jurisdiction of the United States.
Although there was,*subsequent to the act of 1802, frequent
legislation by Congress upon the subject of trading with the
Indians, yet the liability of the government for property stolen
or destroyed remained the same.
No change in regard to such liability was made by the act
approved June 30, 1834, c. 161, 4 Stat. 729. Section 17 of that
statute provided that: "If any Indian or Indians, belonging to
any tribe in amity with the United States, shall, within the
Indian country, take or destroy the property of any person
lawfully within such country, or shall pass from the Indian
country into any State or Territory inhabited by citizens of the
United States, and there take, steal or destroy" certain property, substantially the same proceedings as in the former stat.
utes should be taken against the tribe to which the Indians be.
longed, for recovering the value of the property so taken, and
the United States guaranteed eventual indemnification to the
citizen whose property was taken, the same as in the former
statutes. The "Indian country" mentioned in the act included
the country contained within the boundary lines mentioned in

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

the preceding acts, above referred to. The liability of the government for property was still limited, by the act of 1834, to
that taken or destroyed in the Indian country, or in a State or
Territory of the United States.
By section 8 of the act approved February 28, 1859, making
appropriations for the expenses of the Indian department, so
much of the act of 183- as provided that the United States
should make indemnification out of the Treasury for property
taken or destroyed in certain cases by Indians trespassing on
white men, was repealed, thus taking away the obligation of
the government to eventually indemnify the citizen for property taken by the Indians, as provided in the former statutes.
By a general resolution, approved June 25, 1860, 12 Stat. 120,
the'repeal of the indemnity provision by the act of 1859 above
mentioned was directed to be so construed as not "to destroy
or impair any indemnity which existed at the date of said repeal." Citizens whose property bad been taken or destroyed
under the circumstances provided for in the statute of 1834 had
generally been paid by deducting the value of the property
destroyed from annuities due the respective tribes, without any
specific appropriation having been made therefor, though there
were some acts passed prior to 1859 for the payment of such
claims out of the Treasury of the United States.
These various acts are referred to and a history of the legislation upon the subject of claims for Indian depredations is
given in the opinion delivered in the Court of Claims in the
case of leighton v. United States, 29 C. 01. 288.
It is evident from the legislation enacted that claims for Indian depredations had prior to 1872 become quite frequent. By
section 7 of the Indian appropriation act, approved May 29,
1872, 17 Stat. 165, 190, it was provided that the Secretary of
the Interior should prepare and cause to be published such rules
and regulations as he deemed necessary to prescribe the manner of presenting claims "arising under existing laws or treaty
stiptilations, for compensation for depredations committed by
the Indians, and the degree and character of the evidence necessary to support such claims." By existing laws or treaty stipulations there was no pretence of any obligation of the govern-

CORRALrIOS COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.

285

Opinion of the Court.

ment to guarantee the eventual payment for property destroyed
or stolen beyond the limits of the United States. It was further provided in the act of 1872 that the Secretary should carefully investigate such claims as might be presented, subject to
the rules and regulations prepared by him, and report to Congress at each-session the nature, character and amount of such
claims, whether allowed by him or not,. and the evidence upon
which his action was based, and it was'provided that no payment on account of any claim should be made without a specific appropriation therefor by Congress.
It will be seen that the claims which the Secretary of the Interior was authorized to investigate were claims "arising under
existing laws or treaty stipulations." That act did not enlarge
the character of the responsibility of the government beyond
what it was prior to its passage.
By the Indian appropriation act, approved March 3, 1885,
23 Stat. 362, 376, an appropriation was made for the investigation of certain Indian depredation claims, which, it is obvious,
were claims of the description included in the former statutes
upon the subject, and the appropriation was plainly not meant
to provide for the investigation of claims for property destroyed
outside the limits of the United States.
Pursuant to the provisions in these appropriation acts, it
seems that the Secretary of the Interior had caused to be examined and allowed numerous claims for the loss or destruction
of property by Indians, and had reported the same to Congress,
but Congress had made no appropriation to pay them. In addition to the claims thus approved by the Secretary of the Interior and reported to Congress, it is said that a still greater
number were pending in the department for investigation, and
in this state of affairs Congress passed the act of 1891, 26 Stat.
851, providing as follows:
"That in addition to the jurisdiction which now is, or may
hereafter be, conferred upon the Court of Claims, said court
shall have and possess jurisdiction and authority to inquire into
and finally adjudicate, in the manner provided in this act, all
claims of the following classes, namely:
"First. All claims for property of citizens of the United States

OCTOBER TERMI, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

taken or destroyed by Indians belonging to any band, tribe or
nation in amity with the United States, without just cause or
provocation on the part of the owner or agent in charge, and
not returned or paid for.
"Second. Such jurisdiction shall also extend to all cases which
have been examined and allowed by the Interior Department,
and also to such cases as were authorized to be examined under
the act of Congress making appropriations for the current and
contingent expenses of the Indian Department, and for fulfilling treaty stipulations with various Indian tribes for the year
ending June 30, 1886, and for other purposes, approved March 3,
1885, and under subsequent acts, subject, however, to the limitations hereinafter provided."
Here, for the first time, jurisdiction is conferred upon a court
to inquire into and finally adjudicate in regard to the validity
of claims against the government arising out of Indian depredations, as described in.this act. Up to the time of its passage,
and since the passage of the act of 1872, claimants had been
compelled to rely for compensation for losses so incurred upon
a special application to Congress, made in each case to that
body directly or through the Secretary of the Interior.
The purpose of Congress in enacting the statute of 1891 undoubtedly was to provide thenceforth a judicial tribunal for the
hearing of such claims and for their payment in accordance
with the judgment of the court. It is true that the language
of the provision in the act of 1891, which confers jurisdiction
upon the Court of Claims, differs somewhat from that used in
the various prior statutes, which had guaranteed the eventual
indemnification of the claimant by the government, but such
difference is not in our judgment at all significant of an intention to enlarge the liability of the government to a greater extent than had ever before been recognized.
Considering the prior legislation of Congress in regard to
claims for Indian depredations, none of which recognized any
liability of the nature of the claim now made, is it reasonably
possible for us to say that Congress intended by the act of 1891
to increase the liability of the government, and to extend it to
property destroyed within the limits and jurisdiction of a foreign

CORRALITOS COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.

287

Opinion of the Court.

state, when it has failed to use any language to plainly signify
so extraordinary a departure from its past policy? Up to 1891
there is not the slightest ground for asserting that any such
obligation had ever been acknowledged on the part of Congress
in any legislation enacted by that body. Up to that time it had
always confined the liability of the government, in any event,
to a claim for the stealing or destruction of property within the
limits of the United States, and we think that if any such radical and material departure from the policy of the government
from its foundation had been intended by the act of 1891, plain
language to accomplish such a change would have been found
in that act. We look in vain for any such language.
Instead of enlarging its liability beyond that which it provided for in the earlier statutes, we find that in 1859 Congress
repealed the law by which the government became a guarantor
for eventual indemnification to the owner for property destroyed
by Indians. The act of 1891 again altered that liability, and
provided for the rendition of judgment against the government
for the value of tlbe pr6perty taken or destroyed, and also against
the tribe of Indians committing the wrong, if it were possible
to identify such tribe, and the judgment in that case was to be
deducted from the annuities due the tribe from the United
States, as provided in the sixth section, and if payment could
not be procured from the tribe, then the amount of the judgment was to be paid from the Treasury of the United States,
which payment was to remain a charge against the tribe, and
was to be deducted from any annuity fund or appropriation
which might thereafter become due from the United States to
such tribe.
By this act of 1891, the obligation of the United States as a
substantial guarantor is again acknowledged, notwithstanding
the*act of 1859; but it is acknowledged in the plain language
contained in the sixth section, which provides a means of payment of the judgment obtained pursuant to the provisions of the
act. Correspondingly plain language would have been used in
this act had it been intended -to enlarge the general scope of the
liability of the government so as to include Indian depredations
committed within the borders of a foreign State.

OCTOBER.TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

A decision of the question of what would be the nature of an
action like this, if between private individuals, whether transitory or not, would give us no aid in determining the meaning
of this act of Congress. The jurisdiction of the court depends
wholly upon the act, and we must construe its meaning from
the language used in connection with the previous legislation
on the subject. In so construing the act we have no doubt that
it does not include claims for property destroyed or stolen within
the limits of a foreign country.
It was said by the Court of Claims, in the opinion delivered
in this case, as follows:
"The United States (unless for some express agreement between the two nations) may not discipline or control Indian
tribes within the Mexican territory, and, being without power
to enter that territory in time of peace without Mexico's consent, is without direct responsibility for what may there occur.
Wrongs sustained by a citizen of the .United States while in
Mexico can only be remedied through the executive branch of
the government, and do not present causes of action in the
courts. If citizens of the United States resort to Mexico, they
may expect, and their government may demand for them, equality of safety and protection with the citizens of that country, an
unbiased administration of the laws in relation to them and their
property, and any special advantages (if such there happen to
be) expressly reserved by treaty. Beyond this there is no right.
"It is not alleged that this plaintiff was subjected to any loss
other than that which occurred at the hands of Indians within
the territorial jurisdiction of Mexico; to remedy that loss he
must resort to the Mexican courts, if the law of that republic
happen to provide a remedy through its judiciary for such misfortunes. Failing that, an appeal might possibly be made upon
the Mexican government through the executive department of
the government of the United States, if the facts so authorize
and that department deem such an appeal advisable and wise.
In any event, the matter in dispute does not fall within the
jurisdiction of this court."
For these reasons, among others, the court came to. the conclusion that Congress did not intend by the act of 1891 to en-

SULLY v. AMERICAN NATIONAL BANK.
Statement of the Case.

large the liability of the government so as to include property
destroyed or stolen in foreign territory.
We agree with the results arrived at by the Court of Claims,
and think it unnecessary to add to what has been so well said
by that court.
The judgment is right, and must be
Affirm.ed

SULLY v. AMERICAN N ATIONAL BANK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF TENNESSEE.
No. 266. Argued April 26,1900. -Decided May 28,11900.
Bills were filed in Tennessee by the American National Bank and others
against the Carnegie Land Company, a Virginia corporation, doing business in Tennessee under the provisions of the act which was under review in Blake v. .McClung, 172 U. S. 239; 176 U. S. 59; and also against
various creditors of that company. The prayer of the bill was that it
might be taken as a general creditors' bill; and it was alleged that the
company was insolvent, having a large amount of property in the State
which it had assigned for the benefit of its creditors, without preferences, which was in disregard of the statute of the State, that a receiver
should be appointed, the assets marshaled and the creditors paid according to law. The company answered denying that it was insolvent,
and claimed that the assignment should be held valid, and the trust administered by the assignees. During the pendency of the suit, Sully
and Carbart, New York creditors, filed a bill, setting up that nearly all
the assets, if not all of them, in the hands of the assignee of the company, and sought to be impounded by the bill filed by the bank, were
covered and conveyed to Sully, as trustee, and that Carhart was entitled
to priority over all other creditors of the defendant in the appropriation
of the assets covered by the deed of trust to Sully. They asked for leave
to file that bill as a general bill against the land company, or, if that
could not be done, that they might file it in the case of the bank against
the land company, as a petition in the nature of a cross-bill against
that company. Other proceedings took place which are set forth in detail in the statement of the case. They ended in the consolidation of
the various proceedings into one action and a reference to a master to
take proof of all the facts. The master made his report, upon which a
final decree was entered. It was decreed that the land company, by its

VOL. CLXXVIII-19

