OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

BROWNING v. DE FORD.
ERROR TO AND APPE AL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF OKLAHOMA.
No. 245. Argued April 16, 17, 1900. -Decided May 21, 1900.

General creditors attaching the goods of an insolvent debtor upon the
ground that they had been purchased under fraudulent representations,
when sued by chattel mortgagees of said debtor, may attack the mortgage by showing that the mortgagees knew that the goods had been
fraudulently purchased.

THIs was an action in the nature of trover by the surviving
partners of the firm of Henry W. King & Company, and four
other creditors, as chattel mortgagees, against Charles H.
De Ford, sheriff of Oklahoma County, to recover the value of
a stock of goods seized by the defendant and sold under writs
of attachment issued against the property of the firm of W. F.
Wolfe & Son, in suits instituted by general creditors of that firm.
Defendant justified under these writs of attachment, and
alleged that the indebtedness of each of the attaching plaintiffs was procured by W. F. Wolfe & Son by means of false
and fraudulent representations as to their financial standing
and credit; that the mortgage was executed by such firm in
pursuance of a conspiracy between the firm and the mortgage
creditors, who had knowledge of the fraudulent act8 of the
firm, and knew that the mortgage was given with intent to
binder, delay and defraud their general creditors; that the
mortgage was neither given nor accepted in good faith for
the purpose of securing a bonc fide indebtedness; but that the
indebtedness was in part, if not wholly, false, fictitious and
trumped up to suit the bccasion, and that the real intent of
Wolfe & Son in executing the mortgage was to place their
property beyond the reach of their creditors.
The case was tried before a jury, and resulted in a verdict
and judgment for the defendant, which was affirmed by the

BROWNING v. DE FORD.
Opinion of the Court.

Supreme Court of the Territory (Browningv. Do Ford,8 Oklahoma, 239); whereupon plaintiffs brought the case to this court
both by writ of error and appeal. Another suit in attachment
brought by E. S. Jaffray & Co. against Wolfe & Son, in which
the mortgage was set up as a defence and the facts were the
same, also resulted in a judgment that the mortgage was fraudulent. Jafray v. Wofe, 4 Oklahoma, 303.
M'. Joh

iF. SharteZ for plaintiffs in error and appellants.

Mr. Arthur A. Birney for defendant in error and appellee.
MR. JUsTi E BROWN, after making the above statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
$

This was a contest between mortgage creditors suing as
plaintiffs and attaching creditors representing the defendant
sheriff.
The facts are that on December 15, 1890, the firm of W. F.
Wolfe & Son, retail merchants, and conducting a store at Oklahoma City, executed a joint chattel mortgage to one Vance
and several other creditors for whom he acted, and by whom
he was authorized to take any security he could get, of their
stock of goods at Oklahoma City, and another stock at the
city of Guthrie, not involved in this case. The mortgagees
immediately took possession of the mortgaged property by one
Harvey, their agent, and a brother-in-law of Vance, who proceeded to take an inventory. Shortly after the execution of
the mortgage, a number of other creditors brought suits in
attachment against Wolfe & Son, and through the defendant
De Ford, sheriff of Oklahoma County, levied upon the goods,
and dispossessed the mortgagees, who brought suits for the
conversion of the property. These suits were subsequently.
consolidated into two cases, in one of which all the mortgage
creditors appear as plaintiffs, and the sheriff of Oklahoma County
as defendant. The defence was that the goods were fraudulently obtained of the attaching creditors by false representations made by W. F. Wolfe & Son as to their assets, and that

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

Vance, one of the mortgage creditors, acting for himself and
as agent and attorney for the others, not only had full knowledge that such goods were wrongfully and fraudulently obtained, but actively participated in obtaining the same, and
that he had full knowledge that the mortgage was executed by
Wolfe & Son for the purpose of hindering, delaying and defrauding their creditors, and actively participated in such fraudulent device. In other words, in brief, that 'the goods were
purchased in the pursuance of a conspiracy that when a large
stock had been obtained by Wolfe & Son by means of fraudulent statements as to their assets, certain deeds of their real
estate which had been previously made, but which had remained
unrecorded, should be placed of record, and the goods and merchandise obtained upon such fraudulent statements should be
mortgaged to the plaintiffs in satisfaction of their claims.
In this connection the court charged the jury that, "in order
to invalidate the chattel mortgage, it is not enough for the
defendant to show simply that the firm of W. F. Wolfe & Son
fraudulently purchased goods of the attaching creditors, but it
must also appear from the evidence that the plaintiffs in this case
were parties to such fraud; that they were either active participants in such fraud, or that they aided or abetted in such fraud,
or that such plaintiffs at the time they took such mortgage actually knew that Wolfe & Son had fraudulently incurred a liability and debt for the goods or a portion thereof described in
the chattel mortgage."
Though there are many assignments of error, there are really
but two which require our consideration: First, that there was
no evidence of knowledge on the part of Vance, who acted for
the mortgage creditors, of the fraudulent character of the purchases made by Wolfe & Son of the attaching creditors; second, that the court erred in holding the mortgagees liable simply
upon proof that the mortgage was taken with kMowledge of
such fraudulent representations.
1. To make out their case the attaching creditors were bound
to show, first, that the goods were fraudulently purchased, and,
second, that the mortgagees, or Vance, their agent, was a party
to or cognizant of such frauds. There was ample evidence that

BROWNING v. DE FORD.
Opinion of the Court.

the goods were fraudulently purchased. The firm of W. F.
Wolfe & Son was composed of William F. Wolfe, the father,
and Louis H. Wolfe, the son. On January 5, 1887, Louis H.
Wolfe deeded-o-his wife Winifred, in consideration of love and
affection, a certain lot of land, No. 15, in Topeka, Kansas, by
deed, which-was not recorded until December 17, 1890. On
July 26, 1890, William F. Wolfe and his wife Georgia H. deeded
to Laura V. Vance, their daughter, and the wife of A. H. Vance,
another lot in the city of Topeka, No. 20, in consideration of
the sum of $6500, and subject to a mortgage of $4000. This
deed was also filed for record December 17, 1890. On September 8, Georgia H. Wolfe, wife of William F. Wolfe, made application to the townsite trustees of Oklahoma City for a deed
to four lots of land in that city, being the site of their business
house, stating that she had purchased the same on May 17, 1890,
of Louis E. Wolfe, her son, and William F. Wolfe, her husband, who had given her a quitclaim deed to the same. This
deed was also recorded the same day (December 17). Notwithstanding these deeds, the Wolfes, in their statement of assets
furnished the attaching creditors, included all this real estate,
putting an estimate of $20,000 upon that in Topeka and $12,000
upon that in Oklahoma. This amount added to the value of
the Oklahoma store stock $17,000 and the Guthrie store stock
$35,000, made their total assets $81,000, less $27,000 liabilities,
net assets $57,000. Sundry letters were produced from the
firm, written during the summer and fall of 1890 to several of
the attaching creditors, in which this real estate was included
as a part of their assets, notwithstanding that most of it had
already been conveyed to different members of their families.
These facts, which were not denied, and which were scarcely
susceptible of denial, were fully established, and were clearly
sufficient to lay before the jury as to the fraudulent character
of the purchases of the attaching creditors.
The facts that Vance was a lawyer of long standing and considerable practice, and, as already stated, was the son-in-law of
William F. Wolfe; that one of the deeds was to his wife, and
was withheld from record for several months, and until a day
or two after the chattel mortgage was made; that he could

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

scarcely have failed to know that other deeds had been made
to the wives of William F. and Louis H. Wolfe, which were
also withheld from record; that these men were merchants who
were constantly buying and replenishing their stock and stood
in need of credit; and that he was himself one of the creditors
secured by the mortgage-for a debt, too, which had been already partially paid-were, we think, sufficient evidence to
open to the jury the question of his connection with the scheme
of Wolfe & Son to execute this mortgage for the purpose of
defrauding their unsecured creditors. The very fact that one
of these deeds was withheld from record for three years and a
half, another for eight months and another for about six months
was, unexplained, sufficient to indicate thbit they were withheld
for no good purpose. While evidence was lacking of a direct
participation by Vance in these plans to defraud the creditors
of Wolfe & Son, his intimate connection with the family and
the fact that the mortgage was given, partially at least, to secure him for his liability as surety for the firm, was not too
remote to justify the court in laying the whole matter of his
connection with the fraudulent scheme before the jury, and ashe was acting as agent and attorney for the other secured creditors, they were equally chargeable with himself.
2. Upon the second point, the jury were instructed in substance that to defeat the mortgage it was necessary for the attaching creditors to show that Wolfe & Son were guilty of
fraud in contracting the debts, to satisfy which the writs of
attachment were levied; and also to show that the mortgagees
were parties to such fraud; or that at the time they took the
mortgage they knew that Wolfe & Son had fraudulently incurred a liability for the goods described in the mortgagd. The
objection of the plaintiffs to this instruction is stated in their
fourth assignment of error, that the court "erred in holding as
a principle of law that where goods have been fraudulently obtained by means of false representations as to the financial
standing of a debtor, and where such creditors elect to sue for
the purchase price of such goods, and proceed by the attachment of the property claimed to belong to the debtor, .that a
party previously taking a mortgage on such goods to secure an

BROWNING v. DE FORD.
Opinion of the Court.

antecedent debt, with knowledge of such false representations,
must surrender such property to such attachment creditors."
The theory of the plaintiff is that the attaching creditors'had
an election of remedies -either to rescind the sale and replevy
the goods, in which case it would have been sufficient as against
the mortgagees to prove that they took the mortgage with the
knowledge that the goods had been fraudulently purchased, and
that the mortgagors had no title to them; or to sue for the
purchase money and thereby affirm the sale, and to attach the
goods as the property of the mortgagors, in which case the
mortgagees would stand only as preferred creditors, and their
mortgage would be valid, notwithstanding their knowledge that
the goods had been fraudulently purchased.
It is entirely true that, upon being satisfied that the goods
had been purchased upon fraudulent representations, the attaching creditors had an election of remedies. They might rescind
the sale and replevy the goods, or they might affirm the sale,
sue for the purchase price, and attach the goods upon the ground
that they had been fraudulently purchased. Had it not been
for the mortgage, it would only have been necessary for the
attaching creditors to show that the debts were fraudulently
contracted, to sustain their attachment; but in order to attack
the mortgage, and to show that they had a title superior to
that of the mortgage creditors, it was necessary to go further,
and prove that the mortgage was fraudulent. This might be
done by evidence that the mortgage was taken in pursuance of
a scheme to defraud the general creditors, or that the mortgagees took their security with the knowledge that it 'overed
goods which had been purchased upon fraudulent representations, and that the purchases were made under such circumstances as would entitle the vendors to rescind the sale and
reclaim the goods. They chose, it is true, to treat the sale as,
valid, sue for the purchase price, and thereby affirm the title of
the vendees, but they did not thereby affirm the mortgage.
Their approbation went no farther than the sale from themselves to Wolfe & Son. Their reprobation went to the mortgage, and to that alone. There was, indeed, an election of
remedies, and having made an election the attaching creditors

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

were bound thereby. But such election went no farther than
to affirm the sale, under which they were at liberty to attach
the goods as still belonging to the vendees. They were bound
no farther by the fraudulent mortgage of such goods than they
would have been by the fraudulent assignment of them, and
no class of cases is more common than that of attachments sued
out for goods which are claimed to have been fraudulently assigned.
The instruction complained of is fully supported by the recent case in the Supreme Court of Kansas of Wafer v. Harney
County Bank, 46 Kansas, 597, which holds directly that an ante-

cedent creditor, who knows that his debtor procured goods and
merchandise by fraudulent means, cannot by a chattel mortgage
secure a lien upon such fraudulently procured goods, adverse to
the innocent vendors of such goods. This was also an action
by a chattel mortgagee against the sheriff who had seized under attachments a stock of goods belonging to the attachment
debtor. The distinction relied upon by the plaintiffs in this
case was noticed in that, the court remarking that these goods
having been obtained from the attaching creditors by fraudulent means, the debtor acquired no title to them, and the attaching creditors would be justified in retaking the goods, or they
could waive the tort and bring an action for their value, in
which case knowledge of the plaintiffs that the goods had been
fraudulently obtained, did not put them in a position of bona
ftde purchasers or enable them to set up the mortgage against
attaching creditors.
In the cases relied upon by the plaintiff, but one (Stokes v.
Burns, 132 Mo. 214) is in point. In that case it was held that
where defendants procured goods by fraud, and transferred the
same in trust for a bank, to secure a bona ftde indebtedness, th
mere knowledge of the bank that the goods were so procured,
and that the defendants intended to defraud their other creditors, is not sufficient to avoid the trust deed at the suit of a
creditor, who did not seek to disaffirm the sale of property by
him to defendants. The suit was by attachment for the recovery of an amount for flour sold by plaintiff to the defendants,
under which the sheriff seized certain property. The grantee

BROWNING v. DE FORD.
Opinion of the Court

under the deed of trust filed an interplea, claiming the propm
erty so seized under his deed. The court held that the plaintiff, by suing upon his account, waived the fraud in the sale,
and treated it thereby as the property of the defendants, with
the same power of disposition in the defendants over it as of
,any other property owned by them. It was said: "If the
debts secured by the deed of trust were honest debts, and the
property conveyed was not excessive, and no collusive agreement shown between the defendants and the bank and Ayr
Lawn Company or the trustee in the deed of trust for the use
of the defendants, the deed of trust must be maintained,. and
there was nothing to submit to the jury. No proof was offered or claim made at the trial that any part of the property
conveyed by the deed of trust was, by agreement between defendants and the beneficiaries, to be held for the use of defendants.
Then proof of fraud on the part of defendants in procuring the
property would have no tendency to prove such a result. If the
debt secured was honest, the dishonest methods of defendants
in gathering to themselves the property, and the knowledge of
that fact by the beneficiaries, together with a knowledge of
defendant's intention to defraud their other creditors in making the deed, all would not invalidate the deed or make availing to plaintiff the property thus conveyed in this character of
suit." It was admitted in the case that the plaintiff had ani
election of remedies, but it was said that "the action of the
plaintiff in that case wad based upon -acontract of sale, and
was a confirmatibn of it and a waiver of all fraud involved iin
it, so far as the rights. of .the interpleader are concerned in the
.contest
for the roperty * The sole inquiry, then, was as fo the
alleged fraudulent disposition of the property by the deed of
trust to the interpleader, with the burden of its establishment
upon the plaintiff."
We are-unable.to-accept this view of the law. We think it
m&.kes no difference as to the rights of the mortgagee whether
*the action be in replevin or assumpsit. In either case the mortgagee can hold them if he be a bona flde purchaser, without notice,.but not otherwise. If the attaching creditors rescind the
sale and sue in-replevin, the .mortgagees, having knowledge* of

OCTOBER TERMd, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

the fraudulent purchase, are in the position of taking a mortgage upon property to which they knew the mortgagor had
no title. If, upon the other hand, the creditors proceed by
attachment, the mortgagees, knowing that the goods were
fraudulently purchased, stand in the position of taking advan-tage themselves of the debtor's fraud and obtaining a preference to which they are not justly entitled. If, as the evidence
had some tendency to show, they actively participated in the
fraud, their position is even worse.
It is consonant neither with good morals nor sound sense to
hold that one may take a mortgage upon the property of another, which he knows to have been fraudulently acquired, and
to which the purchaser has no valid title, whether the vendor
elect to pursue the purchaser by a retaking of the property, or
by an action for the price and an attachment of the property
to secure the debt. Whichever remedy be pursued, the fact
remains that, at the time the mortgage was taken, the mortgagor had a voidable title to the property mortgaged; and
while an election to sue in assumpsit recognizes this title as between him and the vendor, such recognition does not redound
to the validity of the mortgage, which must be judged of by
the circumstances under which it was taken. In other words,
the suit in assumpsit affirms the title of the vendee but not the
title of his mortgagee.
It is at least open to doubt whether, if the mortgagees had
disposed of these goods, an action might not have lain against
them for their value, upon the same principle that supports an
action, where the seller is induced by fraudulent representations
to sell goods to an insolvent third person, from whom the misrepresenting third person afterwards obtains them. An action
lies on the assumption either of a fraudulent conspiracy rendering such participant liable, or upon the ground that the
nominal purchaser was only a secret agent for the misrepresenting party, who finally bought the goods. Biddle v. Levy,
1.Stark. 20; Hill v. Perrott, 3 Taunt. 274; Phelan v. Crosby,
2 Gill. 462; State v. Schulei, 45 Missouri, 521; 2 Schouler's
Pers. Prop. sec. 612; Benj. on Sales, 4th ed. sec. 445.
The other cases cited by the plaintiffs are not in point. In

MORAN v. HORSKY.
Statement of the Case.

O'Donald v. Cowstant, 82 Indiana, 212, the evidence showed
that the debtor who purchased the goods fraudulently turned
them over to certain preferred creditors who had no knowl
edge of the fraudulent purchases. The case of Back v. Tuck,
126 N. Y. 53, merely holds that a suit for the price brought
with knowledge of the fraud was a ratification of the sale,

and estopped the vendor from rescinding it and suing in replevin. The cases of the .First ationat Bank v. MafEinney,
47 Nebraska, 149, and Thomason v. Lewis, 103 Alabama, 426,
are to the same effect.
Upon the whole, we see no error in the judgment of the
Supreme Court, and it is therefore

Afflrmed.

MORAN v. HORSKY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MONTANA.
No. 177. Argued and submitted March 12, 190.-Decided May 21,1900.

A neglected right, if neglected too long, must be treated as an abandoned
right, which no court will enforce.
Whenever the invalidity of a land patent does not appear upon the face of
the instrument, orbymatters of which the courts will take judicial notice,
and the land is apparently within the jurisdiction of the land department
as ordinary public land of the United States, then it would seem to be
technically more accurate to say that the patent was voidable, not void.
The defence of laches, put in in this case, is the assertion of an independent defence, proceeding upon the concession that there was, under the
laws of the United States a prior right, and conceding that, says that the
delay in respect to its assertion prevents its present recognition; and the
court is of opinion that the decision of the Supreme Court of Montana in
this case was based upon an independent non-Federal question, broad
enough to sustain its judgment.

THE facts in this case are as follows: On June 15, 1872, a

patent was issued to the probate judge of Lewis and Clarke
County, Montana Territory, for the townsite of Helena, in trust

