OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

OSBORNE v. SAN DIEGO LAND AND TOWN COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 201. Argued March 19, 1900.-Decided May 14, 1900.

The appropriation and disposition of water in California is a public use,
and the right to collect tolls or compensation for it is a franchise, subject
to regulation dnd control in the manner prescribed by law, and such tolls
cannot be fixed by the contract of the parties.
It is not for the court to go into the reasonableness of the established rates,
which are sought to be enforced in this case, but if the consumers are
dissatisfied with them, resort must first be had to the body designated
by law to fix proper rates, the board of supervisors of the county.

THIS was a bill in equity to review and reverse a decree entered in the United States Circuit Court for the Southern District of California in a suit in which Charles D. Lanning, receiver of the San Diego Land and Town Company of Kansas,
was complainant, and appellants herein were respondents, and
in which the appellee was substituted before decree as complainant in lieu of said Lanuing.
The bill is extremely voluminous, reciting all the pleadings
and proceedings in the original suit.
The following is a condensed summary of them:
The bill, in addition to the incorporation of the company and
the appointment of a receiver of its assets and affairs, alleged
that it was the owner of valuable water, and water rights, reservoirs and an entire water system for furnishing water to consumers, and that it had a franchise for impounding, sale and
disposition of the waters owned and stored by it to the respondents and other consumers, and to the city of National
City and its inhabitants.
The company's supply of water came from the Sweetwater
River, a small stream about five miles from the city of National
City, and its means of distributing the water, which were de-

OSBORNE v. SAN DIEGO COMPANY.
Statement of the Case.

scribed, could supply but a limited amount of territory, consisting of farming lands within and outside of said city, and in part
of the residence portion of the city.
The company in procuring the water and its distributing
system had expended up to January 1, 1896, the sum of
$1,022,473.54, which was reasonably necessary for the purposes.
By the said expenditure it had procured and owned, "subject
to the public use and the regulation thereof by law," water and
water rights, a reservoir site, and a reservoir of the capacity of
six thousand million gallons, and had constructed m'ains necessary to supply the defendants and their lands, and had constructed and put in the mains and pipes necessary therefor, and
was at the time mentioned in the bill furnishing the defendants
and each of them with water.
The defendants are the owners respectively of tracts of land
under the system of the company, most of them of only a few
acres each, and each became the owner of a water right to a
part of the water of the company necessary to irrigate his tract
of land, and became liable to pay for a yearly rental such as
the company was entitled to charge and collect.
The annual expense of the system and its operation, including interest on its bonds, and excluding the natural and necessary depreciation, was $33,0307, and to pay this expense and
income of six per cent on the amount invested on the 1st of
January, 1896, it was necessary that the rates for water be
fixed to realize $119,791.66.
The amount realized outside of the city of National City for
that year was about $15,000, and no more than that sum could
be probably realized for the year ending January 1, 1897.
The mains and pipes were perishable, and required to be replaced at least once in sixteen years, and required frequent
repairs.
To acquire the water and construct the system, the company
was compelled to borrow $300,000, and to pay interest in the
sum of $21,000 annually, which must be realized from the sale
of its water, and was part of its operating expenses, and the
share of its revenues which should be raised in the city of National City was about one third, and the amount which could

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

be raised from said city at the rates which prevailed under the
ordinance mentioned in the bill was about $10,715 per annam,
and no more.
The value of its water franchises and system was one million
one hundred thousand dollars.
No other person or corporation was furnishing water to defendants, nor was there any other system by which they could
be furnished, but the franchises and the rights of the company
were not exclusive.
The city of National City was a municipal corporation of
California, of the sixth class, and the board of trustees thereof,
claiming to act under the constitution and laws of the State,
passed an ordinance fixing the rates to be charged for water
sold and furnished by the company to consumers of the city.
The company commenced to furnish water in the year 1887,
and was informed by its engineer that its system and supply of
water would furnish to consumers sufficient to irrigate twenty
thousand acres, and in addition what would be necessary for
domestic use inside and outside of said city. The company
was unfamiliar with the operation of the plant and system constructed and the cost of operating and maintaining them, and
relying upon the estimates of the engineer, and believing that an
annual rate of $3.50 per acre would be sufficient, fixed the rate
at such sum, and had charged it until January 1, 1896, but
instead of being able to supply sufficient. water to irrigate
twenty thousand acres, it had been' demonstrated by actual
experience that the system would not supply sufficient to irrigate, to exceed seven thousand acres, together with water demanded for domestic use, and it was believed not to exceed six
thousand acres, although there were about ten thousand acres
under the system susceptible of irrigation.
At the rate of $3.50 per acre, even if all the lands of the system should be supplied with water and the rates in National
City should be maintained, the company would not be able to
pay- operating expenses and maintain its plant, and the money
invested in it would be lost, and the company would be compelled to furnish water at a loss, as it had been furnishing water
at a loss, and its system had been going gradually to decay con-

OSBORNE v. SAN DIEGO COMPANY.
Statement of the Case.

sequent upon the want of revenue and means to replace the
same.
To pay cost of operating and maintaining its system and a
reasonable interest it was necessary to charge $7.00 for irrigation purposes, and said sum was a reasonable rate for consumers
to pay, and the smallest amount for which the company could
furnish water without loss.
By the laws of California the board of supervisors might upon
petition of twenty-five inhabitants and taxpayers of the county
fix the yearly rental for water, but no such petition had been
presented or rates fixed in the case of the company.
For the reasons above stated the company gave notice to the
defendant that on January 1, 1896, it would establish a rental
of .$7.00 per acre.
The defendants and each of them refused to pay such sum,
and maintain that neither the company nor its receiver had the
power to increase the rental, and that the former rate must be
and remain the rental until the board of supervisors establish
one as provided by law.
The increase of the rental was absolutely necessary to maintain and operate the plant.
To enforce the rental the coiiplainant caused the water to be
shut off the premises of each of the defendants, and each of
them threatened and would, unless restrained by the court from
doing so, commence a suit in the Superior Court of San Diego
County, California, to compel complainant to turn on and furnish water again, claiming the use for $3.50 per acre, and for
damages. The rights of the defendants and the determination
of the question of the right of the company would affect all in
the same way and extent, except the quantity of land owned
by the several defendants was different.
The bringing of said suits would involve complainant in a
multiplicity of suits, would 'hinder him in the operation of the
property of the company and the settlement of its debts and
obligations, and the questions involved could better be settled
in one suit.
The increase in rates would add to the revenue of the company with the amount of land now under irrigation, not less

OCTOBER TERI, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

than $14,000 per annum, and upon the whole of the land which
could be irrigated not less than $20,000 per annum.
There were allegations of the legal character of certain of
the defendants, and the bill concluded with the following prayer:
"Wherefore your orator prays your honors to grant to him
the writ of injunction against the defendants and each of them,
enjoining them from prosecuting in the state courts or elsewhere separate actions against your orator or said land and
town company; that said defendants and each of them be required to appear in this suit and set up any claims they may
have against the right of your orator or said company to increase the rental for water furnished by said company, as aforesaid, and that it be finally decreed by this court that your orator,
as such receiver, and said company have the right to increase
the amount of its rentals to any reasonable sum, and that the
.sun of $7.00 per acre per annum is a reasonable rental to be
charged, and that the defendants and each of them be required
to pay said rate as a condition upon. which water shall be furnished to them, and that your orator shall have generally such
other and further relief as the nature of his case may require."
The answer was very long and somewhat confused by repetitions. The substance of it is given in the opinion of the Circuit Court. 76 Fed. Rep. 319.
It is sufficient for the purpose to say that its allegations and
defences were based on the claim that the supply and system of
the company were subject "to the water rights, easements in
and servitudes upon said reservoir and system, and to all other
rights acquired by these defendants therein . . . and annexed to the respective parcels of lands of these defendants.
And also each such water right and easement was in freehold
and was a freehold servitude imposed upon said water system
for the benefit of the land to which it was appurtenant, and
that all claims and demands of said company for the price or
compensation therefor had been paid or otherwise satisfied by
purchase or otherwise, as in the bill of complaint alleged." And
such rights extended to and included the right to have the company maintain that system efficiently to conduct the water to
the premises of each of the defendants for irrigation, and other

OSBORNE v. SAN DIEGO COMPANY.
Statement of the Case.

uses, at "the annual rates to be deemed and accepted as the
legally established rates therefor under the facts hereinafter set
forth."
These facts were, besides those stated in the opinion, that
each defendant and all of them paid the full amount demanded
by the company as the price of the perpetual easement of water
supply from the system granted and annexed to their lands,
and that they were forever discharged from the payment of
any further sum to apply on the principal of or as income
upon the cost or value of the system or debt incurred for its
construction or the value of their respective water rights. And
that in these respects. the company had put all lands on an equal
footing, and they had remained on the same footing for more
than five years, and in many.cases had changed hands; that
the value of the water rights had for more than five years entered into the market value of the lands and the price paid to
their vendors by the defendants, who were their successors in
title, and they were induced to purchase, improve and settle
upon their respective parcels on account of the rate of $3.50 per
acre per annum, and it entered into and became a material element of their value.
That by the constitution of the State of 1879, it is provided
in article XIV, section 1, among other things, as follows, to wit:
"The use of all water now appropriated, or that may hereafter be appropriated, for sale, rental or distribution, is hereby
declared to be a public use, and subject to the regulation and
control of the State, in the manner to be prescribed by law."
"SEc. 2. The right to collect rates or compensation for the
use of water supplied to any county, city and county, or town,
or the inhabitants thereof, is a franchise, and cannot be exercised except by authority of and in the manner prescribed by
law."
And in pursuance of the provision the legislature passed an
act approved March 12, 1885, entitled "An act to regulate and
control the sale, rental and distribution of water in this State
other than in any city, city and county, or town therein, and to
secure the rights of way for the conveyance of such water to
the places of use."

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

The act provided that the sale and distribution of appropriated water was a public use, and the right to collect compensation therefor a franchise, and, except when furnished by a city
or town, should be regulated and controlled by the board of supervisors of the counties of the State in the manner prescribed,
and that the board might establish different rates as the case
might be, and different rates for the several different uses, such
as mining, irrigating, etc., for which the water should be applied, and the rates fixed should be binding and conclusive for
a year, until established anew -or abrogated. And it was provided that until the boards of Supervisors establish rates, the
rates "actually established and collected . . . should be
deemed and accepted as the legally established rates."
That the rate of $3.50 per acre was the only actual rate for
irrigation which had ever been established and collected by the
company or its receiver, or assented to by consumers.
That they each had since January 1,, 1896, paid -the rate of
$3.50 per acre to the complainant as receiver, and were willing
and offered to pay the same as long as it should be legally established. And it was averred that in so far as the act of 1885
purported to prohibit the company from the sale of servitudes
in freehold upon its system, or to contract respecting the same,
or to receive full compensation from any consumer therefor
who was willing to contract for the same, and to prescribe that
such easement should be used only upon the terms and conditions that the owners render net annual receipts and profits
upon the value thereof in perpetuity, or to prohibit contracts
respecting the annual receipts, or to extinguish and satisfy the
right of the company to such net annual receipts, the same was
unconstitutional and void, and in conflict with the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Constitution of the United States, and section 1, article 9, of the constitution of the State.
That the liability of the defendants to pay rates was several,
not joint, and that certain of the defendants were not residents
of the State, certain others not residents of the county of San
Diego and others were school districts, and that none of them
were competent to make petition to the board of supervisors,
as required in the act of 1885, and said act, as far as it pur

OSBORNE v. SAN DIEGO COMPANY.
Statement of the Case.

ported to authorize the company to increase the rates of $3.50
per acre, was in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment of the
Constitution of the United States, and deprived each of them
of his or her property without due process of law, and to each
of them the equal protection-of the laws.
That in so far as the statute of 1885 purported to authorize
the company to shut off water from the lands of defendants or
to increase the rate without consent of the defendants, or to
permit its collection without giving the defendants a standing
in court to contest the reasonableness of the increase, was also
in violation of said Fourteenth Amendment. And, also, that
the complainant, by shutting off water, violated, that amendment.
The bill of review then averred that there were exceptions
taken to the answer on the ground that it did not set forth or
discover relative and material matters of fact tending to show
that the bill was not true or in confession or avoidance thereof,
but instead set forth-immaterial and irrelevant matter.
Each exception was specific,, but altogether they went to the
whole answer except its admissions and certain of its denials.
It was prayed that the defendants be compelled to amend
the answer, and to put in a full and sufficient one.
The exceptions coming on to be heard, they were sustainedthe defendants excepted.
By order of the court, on motion of complainant, Charles D.
Lanning was discharged as receiver, and the San Diego Land
and Town Company of Maine was substituted as complainant defendants excepted.
A notice was given of a motion to be made that the bill in
the suit be takeniro confe8so, and a decree of the court be taken
accordingly, on the ground that the exceptions to the answer
had been sustained and no amended answer had been filed
within the time allowed.
The motion came on to be heard, and pending its hearing, the
defendants gave notice of a motion to dismiss the suit on the
ground that the receiver had been discharged, the property had
been sold under foreclosure, and had passed into the hands of
another corporation; that the San Diego Land and Town Corn-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

pany of Maine was not the successor of the receiver, and had
no interest or right to prosecute the action, and that the board
of supervisors of San Diego County had fixed the rates of the
company.
The two motions came on to be heard on the 2d of January,
1898, and the motion to dismiss was denied, and the motion
that the bill be taken Pro confesso against all the defendants
was granted, and a decree ordered to be entered according to
the opinion of the court. The defendants excepted.
The bill of review further averred that the court caused to
be entered, greatl to the prejudice of the orators, its decree,
which was set out at length. It further averred that the defendants had paid the costs adjudged against them, and detailed at length their exceptions to the ruling of the court.
The exceptions reasserted the materiality and sufficiency of the
averments of the answer, contended that the court imisapprehended them, and erroneously treated and considered the exceptions as raising for discussion the merits of the case, and by
expunging the answer from the records, deprived the defendants of the right to have the merits of their defences on their
face regularly determined upon the setting of the cause for
hearing on bill and answer or upon issues raised and proofs
made.
The bill of review asserted further errors against the decree
in that it denied the rights alleged in the answer of defendants,
and so construed and enforced the constitution and statutes of
the State as to violate section 1, article 11, of the Constitution
of the United States, in that it maintained the company and
the receiver in increasing the rate, and the condition of nonpayment the right to shut off the water from the lands of the
defendants, and thereby deprived them of the equal protection
of the laws and of their property without due process of law.
And further, because it was an exercise of judicial power to the
same end, and to the deprivation of the right of contract without due process of law. Also denied to the State a republican
form of government, guaranteed by section 4, article 4, of the
Constitution of the United States, in that, as enforced and applied, the State assumed the absolute control of all water

OSBORNE v. SAN DIEGO COMIPANY.
Statement of the Case.

appropriated and all works for its distribution, abolished capacity to acquire property, rights and servitudes in such water and
waterworks absolutely, or with ownership of lands for irrigation, or free from the perpetual obligation to pay net revenue
of not less than six nor more than eighteen per cent per annum
upon the cost or value of the water system; and abolished the
right or capacity to ascertain, fix or define, by contract or convention, the rate of compensation to be paid by any consumer
for the supply of water for irrigation of land.
Error was also asserted in the decree in that it was in favor
of the San Diego Land and Town Company, of Maine- although
it had not b2come a party to the cause, by supplemental bill or
otherwise, and because what interest it had did not appear, nor
was its claim to any interest set forth, so that the .defendant
could answer or plead thereto. Also, error in that the court
had no jurisdiction to entertain the cause or make any decree
on the merits, and error in niot dismissing the suit after the discharge of Lanning, the receiver and complainant.
The bill concluded with the following prayer:
"Wherefore, as said errors appear. on the face of the record,
and are greatly prejudicial to complainants and their rights in
the premises, complainants pray that said decree may be reviewed, reversed and set aside, and no further proceedings taken
therein ; and to that end complainants pray process by subpoena
against the San Diego Land and Town Company, of Maine, requiring it to appear and answer hereunto, and show cause, if it
may, why said decree should not be reviewed, reversed and set
aside, and such further orders and decrees be made as to the
court may seem just, including the restoration to your orators
of the sum of money paid under said decree, as aforesaid."
The defendant (appellee) moved the court to strike the bill
from the files and dismiss the suit.
The motion was denied. The water company then demurred
to the bill on the grounds that it appeared therefrom that there
was no error in the proceeding and decision in Lanning v. Osborne, appearing on the face of. the record or otherwise; that
complainants were not entitled to the relief prayed for, or any
relief: that no error appeared in said suit which could be re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court:

lieved by a bill of review or a bill in the nature of a bill of review; that the remedy of complainants was by appeal.
The demurrer was sustained with leave to complainants to
amend the bill in ten days.
The complainants elected to stand on their bill, and decree
was entered on the demurrer as follows:
"It is therefore considered and decreed by the court that the
plaintiffs take nothing by their bill herein; that said bill be,
and the same is hereby, dismissed, and that the defendant have
and recover of and from the plaintiffs its costs in this behalf
laid out and expended, taxed at $20.50."
The case was then brought here.
.Mr. Alfred Haines for appellants.
Mr. JohnA
D. Works for appellee. Mr. Lewis .R. Works, .Ar.
Bradner W. Lee and X&. CharlesD. Lanning were on his brief.
.Ar. John Garber and
.Amici Citrim.

i'r. F'ank H. Short filed a brief as

MR. JusTWcE MOKENNA, after making the above statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
One of the grounds of demurrer to the bill was that it appeared from the complainants' own showing that their remedy
was by appeal and not by bill of review. It is not pressed with
much earnestness here, and is clearly untenable. Whiting v.
United States Bank, 13 Pet. 6; Putnam v. Day, 22 Wall. 60;
Bufjlngton v. Harvey, 95 U. S. 99; Ensminger v. Powers, 108
U. S. 292; Ifillamette Iron Bridge Co. v. Hatch, 125 U. S. 1;
Story's Equity P1. 10th ed. see. 403 et seq.
The principal contention of the appellants is that the water
rights are easements in the real estate constituting the water
system. In other words, (as described by appellants) "incorporeal interests in the corporeal property of a water system annexed to lands irrigated by that system." Being such, the corporation may sell them, the land owner may contract for them

OSBORNE v. SAN DIEGO COMPANY.
Opinion of the Court.

may buy them outright and free himself wholly from annual
rates, or may stipulate f6r a particular rate. In other words,
that the water right is an interest in the system, paid for with
the land, or by the stipulated rate, and not subject to any rate
or to increase beyond the stipulated rate, according to the varying expenses or valuations of the system.
It is claimed to be property, and the right to sell and to buy
it is asserted respectively for the owner of the system and the
consumers of its waters, and that the constitution and laws of
the State of California do not prohibit this, or if they can be
construed to do so, violate the Fourteenth Amendment of the
Constitution of the United States by depriving appellants of
their property without due process of law, and violate also
certain provisions of the constitution of the State of California. It is further contended by appellants that conceding a contract cannot be made between "water corporations" and their
customers for a particular rate which will preclude regulation
by the State, that until such regulation the parties-company
and consumers-may contract. And, further, that the rate of
$3.50 per acre per annum was the rate charged and collected
by the company, and therefore became the rate established by
law by virtue of a provision in section 5 of the statute of 1885,
hereafter quoted.
It is also contended that the answer in the original suit
averred the rate of $3.50 per acre per annum Was a reasonable
rate, and denied that the increased rate of $7.00 per acre was
reasonable, and that on the issue thus raised, the defendants
there, complainants in the bill of review, were entitled to a
hearing.
The charge of error in the decrees is based on their adjudging
against these contentions.
Opposing the contentions of appellants, the appellee makes a
distinction between the facilities for the use and the right to
use the water of its system and the actual use of it. The compensation for the former, appellee concedes may be the subject
of contract; the rate for the latter, it contends, is subject to reg-

VOL. CLxxvm-3

OCTOBER. TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

ulation by law, but, until so regulated, may be established by
the water companies.
The Circuit Court did not accept the distinction made by appellee. It did not accept the view contended for by appellants.
It held, interpreting the constitution and laws of the State,
that the appropriation and disposition of water was a public use,
the right to collect tolls or compensation for it a franchise, subject to regulation and control in the manner prescribed by law,
and that such tolls and compensation could not be fixed by the
contract of the parties.
If the contention of the appellee is justified, that the contracts between it and the appellants gave it the right to establish the rates, the controversy is narrowed and simplified, and
ne are relieved from deciding the many interesting and difficult
questions pressed by appellants for judgment.
There was some difference in the way the water rights of the
defendants arose, but they are assimilated in the same legal
right by the allegation in the original answer, that the company
did "not make or claim any distinction in respect of the character and quality of the water right, or of the annual rates actually established or collected for irrigation."
It is only necessary, therefore, to say in description that some
of the lands were purchased before 1892, and up to that date
there was no express or separate grant of "waterrights." Some
were purchased after 1892, and as to them there was a specific
sale of the appurtenant water right. The contracts in both cases
contained an agreement to sell certain described real estate, "together with a water right to one acre foot of water per annum
for each and every of said above described real estate, to be
delivered by the party of the first part through its pipes and
flumes at a point -said water to be used exclusively on said
real estate, and not to be diverted therefrom. Provided, that
the party of the first part may change the place of delivery of
said water, so long as the same is near the highest point of said
land. For which land and water right the party of the second
part agrees to pay the sum of - dollars."
The contracts also contained the following provisions:
"And the party of the second part further agrees and binds

OSBORNE v. SAN DIEGO COMPANY.
Opinion of the Court.

-self, - heirs, executors and assigns to pay the regular annual
water rates allowed by law and charged by the party of the
first part for water covered by said water rights, whether such
water is used or not, and to pay for all water used on said. land
for domestic purposes, monthly, under such rules and regulations for the delivery of water to consumers, as the party of
the first part may from time to time make."
Other lands (about nine hundred acres) described in the answer as "lying outside of I ational City" were derived, not from
the company, but water rights were attached to them on the
same basis as to the lands sold by the company up to 1892.
After that date the company refused to furnish water, except
upon the payment of a sum in gross for the water right over
and above the uniform annual rate established and collected,
or in lieu thereof six per cent annual interest upon the coinpany's estimate of the value of such right. The price was first
fixed at fifty dollars, afterwards at one hundred dollars, and the
contract in addition providing for the sale of the water right
contained the following provision:
"In consideration of the foregoing stipulations and agreements, the party of the second part agrees and binds - self, heirs, executors and assigns, to pay the sums above specified
promptly as the sums, and each of them, falls due, and thatwill in all things comply with and perform the terms and conditions of this agreement on- part to be performed, and that,
- and -they will promptly pay all annual water rates and charges
for the water to which - is entitled under and by virtue of this
agreement, at rates fixed by the party of the first part as allowed by law, and at the times, in the manner, and according
to the rules and regulations made and adopted by-the party of
the first part, the annual rental for the amount of water to
which the party of the second part is entitled under this contract, to be paid whether the same is used or not, and also to
pay for all water used by-on said land for domestic purposes
at the rates fixed by the party of the first part and allowed
by law."
Under the same form of contract water rights were attached
to about four hundred acres of lands belonging to other defendants.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

To lands which lay in what is designated Ex-Mission the contracts contained the following provision:
"The parties of the first part will make application for the
use of the water upon the form provided by the party of the
second part for that purpose, and pay for-the use of the water
at the current rates as may be enforced from time to time for
supplying lands in National Ranch, and subject to the same
general rules and regulations.".
J. M. Ballow, one of the defendants, claimed his water right
under a contract, which provided as follows:
"rProvided, that said party of the second part shall make
application in the form provided by the company, for the use
of the water, and use the same under the same restrictions and
conditions, and to pay said party of the first part the current
rate therefor, as established, for Chula Vista; provided, said
restrictions and conditions are not inconsistent with the water
right hereby granted to said party of the second part."
The rates in Chula Vista were governed by the general contract.
It is apparent that the contracts in all things substantial to
the controversy are similar. They provide for the payment
of a certain sum for land and water rights, or for water rights
alone, and all for the payment of annual rates besides. And
provide directly or by reference that the annual rates shall "be
fixed by the party of the first part, (the company,) as allowed by
law," to be paid whether the water is used or not. Water used
for domestic purposes is also to be paid for "at the rates fixed
by the party of the first part and allowed by law."
These provisions do not leave much room for construction.
For irrigation purposes and for domestic purposes the rental
of water is to be paid at rates "fixed" by the company. The
only qualification is "as allowed by law." What this means
we shall presently consider; but whatever it means, it does not
sustain appellant's contention that the rate of $3.50 per acre
per annum was irrevocable, secured to them free from the power
of variation by the company or by law. It is not important to
consider, therefore, whether, under the constitution and laws of
the State, they could contract with the company for the price

OSBORNE a. SAN DIEGO COMPANY.
Opinion of the Court.

of a water right. If the contract, they plead, gives to the company the power to fix the annual rate, the only inquiry which
need be, is whether the power has been exercised "as allowed
by law." What this means can be the only controversy.
The appellee concedes the power of the regulation of rates
by the board of supervisors, but claims that until the power is
exercised the right to fix the rates rests with it, and that those
fixed by it are "allowed by law." The appellants contend that
the power of the board of supervisors is only a pow6r to fix
maximum rates, and below them the right of the parties to contract is unrestrained, (a view sufficiently discussed already,) and
that until the board shall act "the statute itself fixes the standard of maximum rates, as being the ' actual rates established
and collected by the corporation,' and forbids the corporation
to exceed such maximum."
The contention is claimed to be based on section 5 and section 8 of the act of 1885. Section 5 vests the power to fix rates
in the board of supervisors, and provides "when so fixed by
such board shall be binding and conclusive for not less than one
year next after their establishment, and until established anew
or abrogated by such board of supervisors as hereinafter provided." And then follows the provision upon which appellants
especially rely:
"And until such rates shall be so established, or after they
shall have been abrogated by such board of supervisors, as in this
act provided, the actual rates established and collected by each of
the persons, companies, associations and corporations now furnishing, or that shall hereinafter furnish, appropriated waters
for sale, rental or distribution to the inhabitants of any of the
counties of this State, shall be deemed and accepted as the
legally established rates thereof."
Section 8 provides that those furnishing water "shall so sell,
rent or distribute such waters at rates not exceeding the established rates fixed and regulated therefor by the boards of supervisors of such counties, or as fixed and established by such person, company or association, or corporation, as provided in this
act."
The deduction which appellants make is that when the com-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

pany once fixes the rates they must remain so fixed, and if
changed by supervisorial action recur upon the cessation of
that action-inevitable always through every change of condition; if excessive, to forever remain so; if deficient, to forever
remain so.
The argument urged to support this is that one of the ordinary meanings of the word "actual" is "existing at the time."
"And if" (to quote counsel) "the lexicographer be consulted to
define the word establish he will give its meaning substantially,
as does the Century Dictionary, to be ' to make stable; firm or
sure; appoint; ordain; settle or fix unalterably.'" To illustrate the immutability which one of its senses convey, counsel
quote with apologetic reverence an illustration, which they
say is often found in standard dictionaries: "I will establish
my covenant with him for an everlasting covenant." Gen.
xvii: 19.
We are not impressed with the aptness of the illustration to
the case at bar.
Covenants formed and promulgated by a divine wisdom and
foresight can have the attribute of immutability, and their language may be used and interpreted to express it. Human regulations are for the most part occasional and temporary. Besides, one definition of a word does not express its whole meaning
or necessarily determine the intention of its use. If so, interpretation would not be difficult, and the application of the language of a law or contract would be as unerring as easy.
"Actual," of course, means-existent, but it does not preclude
change. Nor does the word "establish" convey the idea of
permanency. As used in the statute, it has no such meaning.
The power of the board of supervisors is not exhausted by one
exercise, nor has its result unalterable fixity. It is beyond
change only for a year. The language of the statute is "at any
time after the establishment of such water rates by any board
of supervisors of this State the same may be established anew
or abrogated in whole or in part by such board, to take effect at not less than one year next after such first establishment.

.

It is manifest to construe the word "establish" to mean "to

OSBORNE v. SAN DIEGO COMPANY.
Opinion of the Court.

fix unalterably," would throw the powers of the board of supervisors into confusion and contradiction.
To say that the rates are unalterable for a year "Wouldprove
nothing. Such effect comes, not from the use of the word
"establish," but from other words, and, but for them, rates established might "be established anew," as often as the board
of supervisors might choose. Nor can it be said that the word
means one thing when applied to the power of the board of supervisors, and another thing when applied to the power of the
company. To say so is to abandon the argument. That depends upon the meaning of the word "establish" to be "to fix
unalterably "-to mean of itself, and iii its use, permanence and
unchangeability. If it does not mean that of itself, there is an
end of the airument, for there is nothing in the act or itspurpose which would give it such meaning when expressing the
power of the company, and somethhig else when expressing the
power of the board of supervisors. The purpose of the act rejects such view. Its purpose is regulation, deliberate and judicial and periodical regulation by a selected tribunal, and we
cannot believe that the legislature intends by an absolute and
peremptory provision to fix rates upon the water companies
unalterable by them, no matter what change in conditions might
supervene. Against rates which may become unreasonably
high, the statute gives relief to consumers through petition to
the board of supervisors. Rates which may become unreasonably low, it surely does not intend to impose on the companies
forever, except as relief may come from the voluntary justice
of its customers or by a violation of the statute and appeal to
the courts. There is nothing iti the act to indicate such purpose, nor does it need to have such purpose. Its dominant idea
is the regulation of rates by law, not commanded to be exercised
by the governing bodies as a voluntary duty as establishing
rates in cities and towns, but exercised when invoked by petition. Until the necessity of that, what more natural and just
than to leave the right with the water companies and recognize
it as legal. This is the meaning, we think, of the provisions of
sections 5 and 8, mTa. To so interpret them makes the scheme
of regulation complete-adequate, without being meddlesome or

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

oppressive. The power of regulation is asserted and provided
for, and ready to be exercised to correct abuse, and who doubts
but that its exercise would be invoked.
The appellants assign many errors upon the action of the
Circuit Court in sustaining the exceptions to the answer made
in the original suit. It'would extend the opinion to too great
length to consider them separately. They are reduced to and
depend upon the claim that they constituted a submission of
the case on bill and answer, and if the latter traversed any material allegation of the bill it could not be taken pro confesso,
and a decree entered upon it would be erroneous. In re Sanford Fork & Tool Co., Petitioner,160 U. S. 247.
The application of the principle is claimed upon the ground
that the answer denies that the rate of $3.50 per acre per annum
is unreasonable or that the increased rate of $7.00 per acre is
reasonable.
The Circuit Court held that issue was not open to its decision.
It said that if the rates established by the board of supervisors
were unreasonable they could only be annulled. In no case
would the court fix them. "Therefore," it was further said, "it
is not for the court in the present case to go into the question
of reasonableness of the rates established by the complainant,
and which -it seeks to enforce. If unreasonable, and the consumers are for that reason dissatisfied therewith, resort must
first be had to the body designated by the law to fix proper
rates, to wit, the board of supervisors of San Diego County."
We concur in this view, and finding no error in the decree it is
Affirmed.

