WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. ANN ARBOR R'D CO. 239
Statement of the Case. -

August 13, 1888, "at any time before the trial thereof," -used
in regard to removals "from prejudice or local influence," require the application to remove to be filed before or at the
term at which the cause could first be tried and before the
trial thereof. Tested by that ruling this application to remove
came too late.
The judgment i -reversedand the cause remanded to the Circuit Court with directionsto remand it to the Probate Court
of JXadison County, Alabama.

WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH COMPANY v. ANN
ARBOR RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE- CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 202. Argued and submitted March 19, 20, 1900.-Decided May 21,1900.

When a suit does not really and substantially involve a dispute or controversy as to the effect or construction of the Constitution or laws of the
United States, upon the determination of which the result depends, it is
not a suit under the Constitution and laws; and it must appear on the
record, by a statement in legal and logical form, such as is required in
good pleading, that the suit is one which does really and -substantially
involve a dispute or controversy as to a right which depends on the construction of the Constitution, or some law or treaty of the United States,
before jurisdiction can be maintained on this ground.

was a bill filed in the Circuit 'Court of Benzie County,
Michigan, by the Western Union Telegraph Company against
the Ann Arbor Railroad Company, to restrain defendant from
interfering with the rights of complainant in a certain telegraph
line along defendant's railroad. The bill stated the Western
Union Telegraph Company to be "a corporation organized and
existing under the laws of the State of New York, and a citizen
of the said State of New York," and the Ann Arbor Railroad
Company to be "a cbrporation organized and existing, under
THIS

OCTOBER TERMI, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

the laws of the State of Michigan and a citizen of said State of
Michigan." The bill alleged that on the 25th day of September, 1890, the Frankfort and South Eastern Railroad Company,
a corporation of tie State of Michigan, owned and operated a
railroad from Frankfort to near Copemish, Michigan;- that on
that day complainant entered into a contract with the Frankfort and South Eastern Railroad Company for the construction
and maintenance of a telegraph line along the entire length of
its road; that in puxsuance of the contract and in May, June
and July, 1891, complainant built the telegraph lines provided
for therein; that one wire was erected for the joint use of the
railroad company and complainant, and a loop to Frankfort
and back was put on the poles for the exclusive use of complainant. It was further alleged that the railroad of the Frankfort and South Eastern: Railroad Company was sold some time
in May, 1892, and transferred to the Toledo, Ann Arbor and
North Michigan Railroad Company, a corporation organized
and existing under the laws of the State of Michigan; that
afterwards said last-mentioned company mortgaged their entire
railroad to the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company as trustee,
and said mortgage being in default a bill was filed to foreclose
it in September, 1893, in the Circuit Court of the I) nited States
for the Northern District of Michigan, to which foreclosure
suit complainant was not a party; that the whole road was sold
under order of court and conveyed to the Ann Arbor Railroad
Company, and the sale and conveyance were confirmed; that
the last-mentioned company now claimed to be in possession
and operating the road formerly known as the Frankfort and
South Eastern Railroad. And farther, that the Ann Arbor
Railroad Company purchased the road with full knowledge of
complainant's rights, but that it insisted that it was not bound
by the contract made with the Frankfort and South Eastern
Railroad Company, and had given complainant written notice
to that effect.
The sixth and seventh paragraphs of the bill were as follows:
"6th. Your orator is now and long has been'doing an extensive telegraph business in many parts of the United States. On
January 7, 1867, it filed with the Postmaster General its accept-

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. ANN ARBOR R'D CO. 241
Statement of the Case.

ance of the provisions of the act of the United States, passed
July 24, 1866.
"T7th. It avers that the provisions of the contract with said
Frankfort and South Eastern Railroad Company are binding
on said Ann Arbor Company, and that independent of said
contract it has a right to maintain its telegraph line on what
was formerly said Frankfort and South Eastern Railroad under the provisions of the statute of the United States."
It was further averred that about October 1, 1895, the Ann
Arbor Railroad Company took possession of complainant's
wires between Thompsonville, near Copemish, and Frankfort,
and cut off their connection with its other wires, and deprived
complainant of telegraphic connection with Frankfort; that
the value of the telegraph lines was at least the sum of $3000,
and the damages arising through loss of business large but incapable of accurate calculation; that October 14, 1895, complainant reconnected the telegraph lines running from Thompsonville
to Frankfort, and so again opened telegraphic communication
with the latter place, and was now in full possession and use
of said lines; but that complainant was justly apprehensive
that, unless restrained by injunction, defendant would again
seize said telegraph lines and deprive complainant of their use.
The prayer was for process and answer, "and that an injunction both preliminary and final may be issued out of and
under the seal of this court, commanding the said Ann Arbor
Railroad Company and all its officers and agents to absolutely
desist and refrain from in any way interfering with the rights
of complainant, as alleged in this bill, in the telegraph wires and
poles running from Thompsonville to Frankfort, or its possession of the same, and that said defendant allow said complainant to reconnect said wires to its main line on the Chicago
and West Michigan Railroad, and to use said wires for its'telegraph business in the same way as it was accustomed to use them
before its rights were disturbed by said defendant, and that defendant be required to carry out said contract in good faith and
for such other and further or different relief, or both, as may
be agreeable to equity and good conscience."
Defendant filed its petition and bond for the removal of the
VOL. c0Lx.XYii-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

cause into the Circuit Court of the United States for the East.
ern District of Michigan, alleging that it was a citizen of the
State of Michigan, and that complainant was a citizen of New
York, and then stating: "Your petitioner further. shows to the
court that the matter and amount in dispute in the ab6ve entitled cause exceeds, exclusive of interest and costs, the sum and
value of two thousand dollars ($2000) ; that this suit is one arising under the Constitution and laws of the United States, and
especially under the act of Congress of July 24, 1866, now contained in section 5263 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States and the amendments thereto." The cause having been
removed, defendant filed an answer and cross-bill, setting up
the existence of a mortgage prior to the alleged contract and
its foreclosure, and other matters. Certain facts were stipulated, and the cause stibmitted. The Circuit Court decreed a
dismissal of the bill. From this decree an appeal was taken
to the Circuit Court of Appeals, and that court affirmed the
decree. 61 U. S. App. 741. From the decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals the Western Union Telegraph Company appealed to this court.
Mir. Jokb F. Dilon for appellant. A&. Rush Taggart and
.Ab. Geore H. Fearons were on his brief.
No appearance for appellee.
"MR.CIHEF TUSTICE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
The Western Union Telegraph Company might have instituted its suit in the Circuit Court, buf it sought the state tribunals as it had the right to do, and the defendant could not
remove the case on the ground of diverse citizenship, although
that fact existed, because it was itself a resident of the State.
Defendant's application to remove, therefore, was based on the
averment that the suit arose "under the Constitution and laws
of the United States." Whether it did so arise depended on
complainant's statement of its own case. Tennessee v. Bank,

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. ANN ARBOR R'D CO. 243
Opinion of the'Court.

152 U. S.454. And the sixth -and seventh paragraphs of the
bill contain all that defendant could have relied on as bringing
the case within that category. These paragraphs were to the
effect that complainant had accepted the.provisions of the act
of Congress of July 24, 1866, and that, independent of the contract, it had "a right to maintain its telegraph line on what
was formerly said Frankfort and South Eastern Railroad under
the provisions of the statute of the United States."
The bill was in legal effect a bill for the specific performance
of the contract set up in the pleadings, and the prayer was
for injunction against interference with complainant's alleged
rights, and ihat defendant allow complainant to reconnect its
said wires, and use them in the same way as before they were
disturbed by defendant, "and that defendant be required to
carry out said contract in good faith," and for general relief.
It was not argued by counsel for the telegraph company that
the telegraph company had any right under the statute, and
independently of the contract, to maintain and operate this telegraph line over the railroad company's property; and it has
been long settled that that statute did not confer on telegraph
companies the right to enter on private property without the
consent of the owner, and erect the necessary structures for
their business; "but it does provide, that, whenever the consent
of the owner is obtained, no state legislation shall prevent the
occupation of post roads for telegraph purposes by such corporations as are willing to avail themselves of its privileges."
Pensacola Telegrah Company v. TFestern Union Telegrap7h
Company, 96 U. S.1. In that case Mr. Chief Justice Waite
further said: " No question arises as to the authority of Congress to provide for the appropriation of private property to
the uses of the telegraph, for no such attempt has been made.
The use of public property alone is granted. If private property is required, it must, so far as the present legislation is concerned, be obtained by private arrangement with its owner.
lNo compulsory proceedings are authorized."
When a suit does not really and substantially involve a dispute or controversy as to the effect or construction of the Constitution or laws of the United States, upon the determination

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

of which the result depends, it is not a suit arising under the
Constitution or laws. And it must appear on the record, by a
statement in legal and logical form, such as is required in good
pleading, that the suit is one which does really and substantially involve a dispute or controversy as to a right which depends on the construction of the Constitution or some law or
treaty of the United States, before jurisdiction can be maintained on this ground. Gold Washing & Water Co. v. Keyes,
96 U. S.-199; Blackburn v. Portland Gold _fining Co., 175
U. S..571.
We are unable to perceive, that paragraphs sixth and seventh
met this requirement, and it does not appear to us that they
were intended to do so by the pleader. As we have said, it was
not asserted in argument that the telegraph company had the
right independently of the contract to maintain its line on the
railroad company's property, and in view of the settled construction of the statute, we could not permit such a contention
to be recognized as the basis of jurisdiction. But it was argued
that by virtue of the statute the telegraph company was possessed of a public character and was discharging public duties,
and that although the interest it acquired by its contract was
subject to the prior mortgage, it could not be absolutely deprived thereof by foreclosure, but that the Circuit Court should
have so framed its decree as to preserve the occupancy of the
telegraph company, subject to making compensation to the rail-road company, the value of the alleged easement to be ascertained by the court. It is sufficient to say that the bill was
not framed in that aspect, and though there was a prayer for
general relief, relief cannot be awarded under that prayer unless
it is such relief as is agreeable to the case made by the bill.
And it is entirely clear that there were no averments in the
bill in respect of this contention which would bring the case
within the category of cases arising under the Constitution or
laws of the United States so that jurisdiction could be held to
have rested on that ground.
The result is that the decrees of the Circuit Court of Appeals
and of the Circuit Court must be reversed, and the cause
be remanded to the latter court with a direction to remand
it to the state court, and it is so ordered.

