EARLE v. PENNSYLVANIA.
Syllabus.

or enlarge upon the reasons given in ans v. Louisiana why a
suit brought agairist a State by one of its citizens was excluded
from the judicial power of the United States, even when it is
one arising under the Constitution and laws of the United
States. They apply equally to a suit of that character brought
against the State by a corporation created by Congress. Such
a suit cannot, consistently with the Constitution, be brought
within the cognizance of a Circuit Court of the United States
without the consent of the State. It could never have been
intended to exclude from Federal judicial power suits arising
under the Constitution or laws of the United States when
brought against a State by private individuals or state corporations, and at the same time extend such power to suits of
like character brought by.Federal corporations against a State
without its consent.
The Circuit Court entertained jurisdiction of the cause and
dismissed the bill. The Circuit Court of Appeals held that the
Circuit Court erred in holding jurisdiction, but affirmed the order of dismissal upon the ground of want of jurisdiction in the
latter court to take cognizance of such a case as is here presented. We approve the action of the Circuit Court of Appeals,
and its judgment is
Affirmed.

EARLE v. PENNSYLVANIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 218. Argued April 11, 1900. -Decided May 14, 1900.

An attachment sued out against a bank as garnishee is not an attachment
against the bank or its property, nor a suit against it within the meaning
of section 5242 of the Revised Statutes.
When the Chestnut Street National Bank suspended and went into the
hands of a receiver, the entire control and administration of its assets
were committed to the receiver and the comptroller, subject, however,
to any rights of priority previously acquired by the plaintiff through the
proceedings in the suit against Long.
VOL. oLxxvIII-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.
The state court had no authority to order execution in favor of the plaintiff
of any dividends upon the money on deposit in the bank to Long's credit
at the time the bank was served with the attachment, and direct the
sale of the shares of stock originally held by the bank as collateral security.

THiE case is stated in the opinion.
-Yr. John G. Johnsor and XA-. Am W.TFaters for plaintiff
in error. .Mr. W. H. Addicks was on .r. TWaters' brief.
Xr1. James C. Stillwell for defendant mi error in No. 219,
which was argued with this case.

M . JUSTICE HARLAw delivered the opinion of the court.
On the 29th day of September, 1897, the Commonwealth of
Pbnnsylvania, at the suggestion and to the use of the Commonwealth Title, Insurance and Trust Company, trustee for Mary
Rodgers, obtained judgment upon a bond in the Court of Common Pleas for the county of Philadelphia against one James
Long for the sum of $31,499. A writ of attachment issued
upon that judgment, and on the 5th day of October, 1897, an
alias writ was issued against the Chestnut Street National Bank
of Philadelphia, as garnishee. The writ was served on October 28, 1897, and commanded the bank to show cause in that
court on a day named why the judgment against Long, with
costs of writ, should not be levied on the effects of the defendant in the hands of the bank. Afterwards, on November 6,
1897, special interrogatories were filed by the plaintiff, and a
rule was entered requiring the bank, as garnishee, to answer
the same within a named time. Subsequently the bank filed
its answer in the attachment proceedings, and November 24,
1897, it filed an answer to the special interrogatories; and, on
December 15, 1897, a rule was entered by plaintiff for judgment
against the bank, as garnishee, on its answers.
A few days later, on the 23d day of December, 1897, the bank
suspended payment of its obligations, and by order of the
Comptroller of the Currency of the United States closed its

EARLE v. PENNSYLVANIA.
Opinion of the Court.

doors to business; and January 29, 1898, the present plaintiff
in error, Earle, was appointed by that officer as receiver of the
bank and duly qualified as such.
Subsequently, May 5, 1898, Earle, as receiver, entered his
appearance in the above action and filed a suggestion of record
setting forth his appointment and qualification, and on the following day filed an affidavit stating his appointment as receiver.
On the succeeding day a motion was made and filed (entered as a
rule) by the receiver to vacate and dismiss the attachment served
upon the bank, garnishee, for want of jurisdiction in the Court
of Common Pleas under section 5242 of the Revised Statutes
of the United States, the receiver insisting that all the proceedings in attachment against the bank were null and void.
The rule entered December 15, 1897, for judgment against
the bank and the rule to vacate and dismiss the attachment'for
want of jurisdiction in the Court of Common Pleas were heard,
and that court, on May 21, 1898, made absolute the rule for
judgment and entered the following: "And now, to wit, May 21,
1898, upon the hearing of the attachment in the above case
and the interrogatories of the plaintiff and the answer of the
garnishee thereto, it is adjudged that the above-named garnishee
has a deposit in money belonging td the above-named defendant of $2900, with interest from October 28, 1897; and also
that the said garnishee has 77 shares of 'National Gas Trust
stock' and 33 shares of the capital stock of the Eighth National Bank of Philadelphia belonging to the said defendant
and pledged by him with the said garnishee for payment by
him to it of the sum of $17,831, with interest thereon from
April 22, 1897, and that the plaintiff have execution of any dividends on the said deposit of $2900, with interest, in common with
the other creditors of said garnishee, less $35 counsel, fee for
the said garnishee's counsel, and that if the said garnishee refuse or neglect, on demand by the sheriff, to pay the same, then
the same to be leviedof the said garnishee according to law, as
in the case of a judgment against it for its proper, debt, and
also that the plaintiff have leave to issue a writ of feri facias
against the above-named defendant for the sale of the said 77
shares of S National Gas, Trust stock' and 33 shares of the capi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

tal stock of the Eighth National Bank of Philadelphia, pledged
by the defendant with the garnishee, subject to the garnishee's
claim under said pledge of the sum of $17,831, with interest
thereon from April 22, 1897, or so much thereof as shall be
necessary to satisfy the plaintiff's judgment against the defendant in this case, with costs."
The rule to vacate and dismiss the proceedings in attachment
for want of jurisdiction in the Court of Common Pleas was discharged.
The cause was -carried to the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, where the judgment of the Court of Common Pleas was
affirmed.
By the Revised Statutes of the United States it is provided:
"ยง 5234. On becoming satisfied; as specified in sections 5226
and 5227, that any [national banking] association has .refused
to pay its circulating notes as therein mentioned, and is in default, the Comptroller of the Currency may forthwith appoint
a receiver and require of him such bond and security as he
deemsproper. Such receiver, under the direction of the Comptroller, shall take possession of the books, records and assets of every
description of such association, collect all debts, dues and claims
belonging to it, and, upon the order of a court of record of
competent jurisdiction, may sell or compound all bad or doubtful debts, and, on a like order, may sell all the real and personal property of such association, on such terms as the court
shall direct, and may, if necessary to pay the debts of such association, enforce the individual liability of the stockholders.
Such receiver shall pay over all money so made to the Treasurer
of the United States, subject to the order of the Comptroller,
and also make report to the Comptroller of all his acts and proceedings.
"ยง 5235. The Comptroller shall, upon appointing a receiver,
cause notice to be given, by advertisement in such newspapers
as he may direct, for three consecutive months, calling on all
persons who may have claims against such association to present the same and make legal proof thereof.
"'ยง 5236. From time to time, after full provision has been
first made for refunding to the United States any deficiency-in

EARLE v. PENNSYLVANIA.
Opinion of the Cburt.

redeeming the notes of such association, the Comptroller shall
make a ratable dividend of the money so paid over to him by
such receiver on all such claims as may have been proved to
his" satisfaction or adjudicated in a court of competent jurisdiction, and, as the proceeds of the assets of such association
are paid over to him, shall make further dividends on all claims
previously proved or adjudicated; and the- remainder of the
proceeds, if any, shall be paid over to-the shareholders of such
association, or their legal representatives, in proportion to the
stock by them rbspectively held."
"ยง 5242. All transfers of the notes, bonds, bills of exchange,
or other evidences of debt owing to any national banking asso-.
ciation, or of deposits to its credit; all assignments of mortgages, sureties on real estate or of judgments or decrees in its
favor; all deposits of money, bullion, or other valuable thing
for its use, or for the use f any ofits shareholders or creditors;
and all payments of money to either, made after the commission of an act of insolvency, or in contemplation thereof, made
with a view to prevent the application of its assets in the manner prescribea by this chapter, or with a view to the preference
of one creditor to another, except in payment of its circulating
notes, shall be utterly null and void; and no attachment, injunction or execution shall be issued against such association or
its property before final judgment in any suit, action or proceeding in any state, county or municipal court." ,
Sections 5234, 5235 and 5236 above quoted 'have reference
to the affairs and property of national banks in the hands of
receivers and the administration of its assets by the Comptroller;
and the words in section 5242," no attachment, injunction or
execution shall be issued against such association or its property
before final judgment in any suit, action or proceeding in any
state, county or municipal court," are to be construed in connection with the previous parts of the same section declaring
null and void certain transfers, assignments, deposits and payments made after the commission by the bank "of an act of
insolvency, or in contemplation thereof," with the intent to
prevent the application of the bank's assets in the manner ppescribed by Congress, or with a view to the preference by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

bank of one creditor to another. Whatever may be the scope
of section 5242, an attachment sued out against the bank as
garnishee is not an attachment against the bank or its property,
nor a suit against it, within the meaning of that section. It is
an attachment to reach the property or interests held by the
bank for others. After the Chestnut Street National Bank
had been served as garnishee with the attachment sued out in
the Long suit but before it went into the hands of a receiver,
it admitted in its answers to special interrogations in the suit
against Long that it was indebted to Long on a clearing-house
due bill, and also that it held as collateral security for his debt
to it certain shares of the stock of the National Gas Trust, as
well as certain shares of the stock of the Eighth National Bank
of Philadelphia. By the service of the attachment upon the
bank, the plaintiff in the attachment acquired a right to have
the money and property belonging to Long in the hands of the
bank applied in satisfaction of its judgment against him, subject
of course to the bank's lien for any debt due to it at that time
from him. The bank therefore became bound to account to
the plaintiff in the attachment for whatever property or money
it held for the 'benefit or to the use of Long at the time the attachment was served upon it. And the right thus acquired by
the service of the attachment was not lost by the suspension of
the bank and the appointment of the receiver. The assets of the
bank passed to the receiver burdened, as to the interest that
Long had in them, with a lien in favor of the plaintiff in the
attachment which could not be disregarded or displaced by the
Comptroller of the Currency.
We must not, however, be understood as holding that the
distribution of the bank's assets in the hands of the receiver
could have been in anywise directly controlled by the state
court or seized under an attachment or execution in the hands
of any state officer. On the contrary, the direction in the
statute that the receiver pay over all moneys realized by him
from the assets of the bank to the Treasurer of the United
States, subject to the order of the Comptroller, furnished a rule
of conduct for him which neither an order of nor any proceedings in the state court could affect, modify or change. The

EARLE v. PENNSYLVANIA.
Opinion of the Court.

scheme of the statute relating to suspended national banks is
that from the time of a bank's suspension all its assets, of whatever kind, as they are at the time of suspension, pass in the
first instance, to the receiver, the proceeds thereof to be distributed by the Comptroller among those whose claims are
proved to his satisfaction or are adjudicated by some court of
competent jurisdiction. So when the Chestnut Street National
Bank suspended and went into the hands of a receiver the entire control and administration of its assets were committed to
t he receiver and the Comptroller, subject, however, to any rights
of priority previously acquired by the plaintiff through the
proceedings in the suit against Long,
It results that the state court did not err in overruling the
motion of the receiver to vacate and dismiss the attachment
issued in the suit brought against Long and served upon the
bank as garnishee prior to its suspension. The proceedings in
the state court prior to the appointment of a receiver were all
in due course of law. We do not understand that to'be controverted. But we are of opinion that the order of judgment of
May 21, 1898, was erroneous in some particulars. As the bank
did not cease to exist as a corporation upon its suspension and
the appointment of a receiver, it was competent for the state
court to determine, as between the plaintiff in the attachment
and the bank, what rights were acquired by the former as
against the latter by the service of the attachment; and its
judgment, thus restricted, could have been brought to the attention of the Comptroller for his guidance in distributing the
assets of the bank. To this extent the judgment below is affirmed. But, for the reasons already stated, we hold that the
state court had no authority to order execution in favor of
the plaintiff of any dividends upon the money on deposit in the
bank to Long's credit at the time the bank was served with the
attachment, and direct the sale of the shares of stock originally
held by the bank as collateral security, but which passed upon
the suspension of the bank to the custody of the receiver. This
part of the judgment should be set aside. It is proper to say
that the rights acquired by the defendant in error under the
garnishee proceedings can be made effective upon application

0CTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

to the Comptroller, to wvhom Congress has entrusted the power
to distribute the assets of a suspended bank among those entitled thereto.
The decree is reversed to the extent indicated, and the cause
is remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this
opinion.
Reversed.

EARLE v. CON-TWAY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA
No. 219. Argued April 11, 1900. -Decided

May 14,1900.

A receiver of a National, Bank may be notified, by service upon him of an
attachment issued from a state court, of the nature and extent of the
interest sought to be acquired by the plaintiff in the attachment in the
assets in his custody; but, for reasons stated in Earle v. Pennsylvania,
ante, 449, such an attachment cannot create any lien upon specific assets
of the bank in the hands of the receiver, nor disturb his custody of
those assets, nor prevent hiim from paying to the Treasurer of the United
States, subject to the order of the Comptroller of the Currency; all
moneys coming to his hands, or realized by him as receiver from the sale
of the property and assets of the bank.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

-Hr.Joh G.z Joknson and 2f. Asa W. Waters for plaintiff
in error. .Mr. 3F H. Addicks was on Xr. Waters' brief.
Xr. James C. Stilwell for defendaunt in error.
NM. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

This case differs somewhat in its facts from those in Earle
v. Pennsylvania, ante, 449. It appears that on February 24,
1898, the appellee Conway, in an action of assumpsit in the
Court of Common Pleas of the, county of Philadelphia, ob-

