TARPEY v. MADSEN.
Syllabus.

have been enforced against one who, during all the time, had
as an individual held the legal title. In other words, that as
no equitable rights could be asserted against the government
while it held the legal title, so when it passed the legal title to
an individual he acquired all the rights which the government
had at the time of the passage of such legal title. So far as
that case has any bearing upon this, it tends to support the conclusions of the Supreme Court of the State of Montana; because
here at I tst the apparent legal title passed to the probate judge,
and thereafter to the plaintiff, and it was only an eqtiitable and
inchoate right which the defendant was trying to assert.
We conclude, therefore, that the defence of laches, which in
its nature is a defence conceding the existence of an earlier legal
or equitable right, and affirming that the delay in enforcing it
is sufficient to deny relief, is the assertion of .an independent
defence, It proceeds upon the concession that there was under
the laws of the United States a prior right, and, conceding that,
says that the delay in respect to its assertion prevents its present
recognition. For these reasons we are of the opinion that the
decision of the Supreme Court of Montana was based upon an
independent non-Federal question,. one broad enough to sustain
its judgment, and the writ of error is
Dismissed.

TARPEY v. MADSEN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF UTAH.
No. 119. Argued January 25, 26, 1900.-Decided May 21, 1900.

The right of one who has actually occupied public land, with an intent to
make a homestead or pregmption entry, cannot be defeated by the mere
lack of a place in which to make a record of his intent.
The law deals tenderly with one who, in good faith, goes upon public lands,
with a view of making a home thereon.
When the original entryman abandons the tract entered by him, and it
comes within the limits of a grant to a railroad company, a third party,

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.
coming in after the lapse of many years, and setting up the title of that
entrymaD, does not come in the attitude of an equitable appellant.
A proper'interpretation of the acts of Congress making railroad grants like
the one in this case requires that the relative rights of the company and
an individual entryman must be determined, not by the act of the company, in itself fixing definitely the line of its road, or by the mere occupancy of the individual, but by record evidence, on the one part the filing
of trie map in the office of the Secretary of the Interior, and, on the other,
the declaration or entry in the local land office; and while, as repeatedly
held, the railroad company may not question the validity or propriety of
the entryman's claim of record, its rights ought not to be defeated long
years after its title had apparently fixed, by fugitive and uncertain testimony of occupation.

THis case comes on error to the Supreme Court of the State
of Utah, and involves the title to the S.W. I of section 29, township 11 north, of range 2 west.* This tract is within the place
limits of the grant to the Central Pacific Railroad of California.
The map of definite location of that part of the road opposite
this land was filed, and approved by the Secretary of the Interior, on October 20, 1868, and the efitire road was constructed
and accepted prior to 1870. The land is not mineral nor swamp
land, nor was it returned or denominated as such; was agricultural in character; and at the date of the filing of the map
of definite location there was nowhere any record evidence 6f a
private claim. At that time no local land office had been established in the district in which this land is situated. Such
office was opened some time in April or May, 1869. On May 29,
1869, this declaratory statement was filed:
" Declaratorystatementfor cases where the land are not subject
to privat entry.
"I, Moroni Olneyj of Box Elder County, Utah Territory,
being a citizen of the United States and the head of a family,
have on the 23d day of April, 1869, settled and improved the
S.W. J of section 29, township 11 north, of range 2 west, in
the district of lands subject to sale, at the land office in Salt
Lake City, Utah, and containing 160 acres, which land has not
yet been offered at public sale, and thus rendered subject to private entry, and I do hereby declare my intention to claim said

TARPEY v. MADSEN.
Statement of the Case.

tract of land as a preemption right under the provisions of said
act of 4th September, 1841.

"Given under my hand this 29th day of May, 1869.
(Signed)

"MORONI ONY.

"In the presence of-

"ABIRHAm luNsA.ER."

Nothing further was done by Olney. He abandoned the
land, and nothing appears to have been heard of him since the
date of the entry.

On June 20,1896, Andrew Madson, the de-

fendant in error, who alleged that he had been a settler and in
occupation of the tract since 1888, filed a homestead entry
thereof in the local office. A contest had previously and in
1893 been instituted between the railroad company and Madsen, which was heard and decided by the register and receiver,
whose decision was affirmed by the Commissioner of the General Land Office, the finding of the register and receiver, as appears from the record in this case, being"We find that the tract in question, which is the S.W. I of
section 29, township 11 north, of range 2 west, of the Salt Lake
meridian, was settled upon and occupied and claimed by a qualified entryman, to wit, Moroni Olney, prior to October 20,1868,
which therefore excepted the land from the operation of the
grant- of Congress to the Central Pacific Railroad Company."
A certified copy of that decision in full was filed by counsel
for defendant in error on the hearing in this court, and that
certified copy reads as follows:
"This case arises upon an application to enter a tract of land
covered by a railway selection, which it is sought to cancel,
for the reason that a valid settlement had been made on the
land prior to the date of the attachment of the grant to the
railway company.
"Our decision is that the motion of the Central Pacific Railway Company to strike out, dismiss and expunge the depositions
from the records should be denied. We therefore find the issues in favor of Andrew Madsen, and that the tract of land in
dispute was reserved and excepted from the grant to the railroad company, because, first, a preemption claim had attached

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Counsel for Parties.

to the land in dispute at the time the line of said road was definitely fixed.
"2d. There was a qualified preemption claimant upon the
land at that time, which brought it within the first portion of
the excepting clause of the act of 1864, which provides that
any lands granted by that acf, or the act to which it is an
amendment, shall not defeat or impair any pregmption claim.
"3d. On the 20th day of October, 1868, the land in dispute
contained the improvements of a bona #de settler, which also
excepted the land from the provisions of the grant.
"We further find that Central Pacific Railway selection
No. 3 should be cancelled as' to the tract in dispute, and that
'Andrew Madsen should be permitted, if he so desires, to make
preemption entry covering this land.
"We decide that he should be permitted to enter the land
under the preemption law, because his right to do so-i. e., his
settlement upon the land-was initiated long prior to the act of
March 3, 1891, repealing the pregmption law, which repealing
act expressly excepted all bona fde claims lawfully initiated
before the passage of the act."
After the decision of the Commissioner affirming that of the
register and receiver, the entry was made and a patent was issued to Madsen.
Prior thereto and on January 12, 1894, this action was brought
in the fourth judicial district of the Territory of Utah, county
of Box Elder, by the plaintiff in error, grantee from the railroad company, to establish his title to the tract and to recover
possession. In the trial court, after the issue of the patent and
the admission of Utah as a State, a decree was entered in favor
of the defendant. The case was taken by appeal to the Supreme
Court of the State, and by that court the decree of the district
court was affirmed, 17 Utah, 352, to review which decree this
writ of error was brought.
. . 1. . Payson for plaintiff in error. .X. L. R7.Rogers
filed a brief for same.
Mr. B. Howell Jones for defendant in error.

TARPEY v. MADSEN.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTIE BR~wER, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
A narrow but important question is presented by this record.
The land in controversy is an odd numbered section within the
place limits of the grant to the Central Pacific Railroad Conpany. The identification of the lands which passed by that
grant was made at the time the map of definite location was
filed in the office of the Secretary of the Interior, and by him
approved, to wit, October 20, 1868, and the question is whether
there was-anything in the occupation or entry by Olney to defeat the title apparently then passing to the railroad company.
That there was nothing of record affecting the validity of that
title is conceded. No one, by an investigation of any public
record, could have ascertained at that time that there was any
doubt in respect thereto.
It is true that there was then no local land office in which
those seeking to make preei-nption or homestead entries could
file their declaratory statements or make entries, and the want
of such an office is made by the Supreme Court of the State one
of the main grounds for holding that the land did not pass to
the railroad company. We agree with that court fully in its
discussion of the general principles involved in the failure of
the Government to provide a local land office. The right of
one who has actually occupied, with an intent to make a homestead or preemption entry, cannot be defeated by the mere lack
of a, place in which to make a record of his intent. In many
States the statutory provision in respect to suits is that the
defendant, on receiving service of summons, must within a
certain time file his answer in the office of the clerk of the
court. It cannot be doubted that if, before he is thus called
upon to file his answer the office is burned, and the clerk dies,
and there is no place or individual at which or with whom his
answer can be filed, such accident or omission will not defeat
his right to make a defence, or give to the plaintiff a right to
take judgment by default. Where the accident or omission is
not the fault of the party but of the 01overnment, or some official of the government, such accident or omission cannot defeat

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

the right of the individual, and in all that is said in respect to
this by the Supreme Court of the State of Utah we fully agree.
If Olney was in possession of this tract before October 20, 1868,
with a view of entering it as a homestead or preemption claim,
and was simply deprived of his ability to make his entry or
declaratory statement by the lack of a local land office, he
could undoubtedly, when such office was established, have
made his entry or declaratory statement in such way as to
protect his rights. But when the office was opened he filed
his declaratory statement, and in that he did not suggest that
he had been in the occupation of the premises prior to October 20, 1868, but declared that on the 23d of April, 1869, he
settled and improved the tract. Assume that such declaration was subject to correction by him, that he could thereafter
have corrected the mistake (if it was a mistake) and shown that
he occupied the premises prior to October 20, 1868, with an intent to enter them as a homestead or preemption claim, he never
did make the correction, and there is nothing in the record to
show that his occupation prior to April 23, 1869, was with any
intent to acquire title" from the United States.
this respect we must notice the oft-repeated declaraAnd ifi
tion of this court, that "the law deals tenderly with one who,
in good faitb, goes upon the public lands with a view of making
a home thereon." Ard v. Biandon, 156 U. S.537, 543; NZrorthern PacifA Railroadv. .Amac7r, 175 U. S.564:, 567. With
this declaration, in all its fulness, we heartily concur, and have
no desire to limit it in .any respect, and if Olney, the original
entryman, was pressing his claims every intendment should be
n1his favor in order to perfect the. title which he was seeking
to acquire. - But when the original entryman, either because he
does not care to perfect his claim to the land or because he is
conscious that it is invalid, abandons it, and a score of years
thereafter some third party comes in and attempts to dispossess
the railroad company (grantee of Congress) of its title-apparently perfect and unquestioned during these many years-he
does not come in the attitude of an equitable appellant to the
consideration of the court.
It must be remembered that mere occupation of the public

TARPEY v. MADSEN.
Opinion of the Court.

lands gives no right as against the government. It is a matter
of common knowledge that many go on to the public domain,
build cabins and establish themselves, temporarily at least, as
occupants, but having in view simply prospecting for minerals,
hunting, trapping, etc., and with no thought of acquiring title
to land. Such occupation is often accompanied by buildings
and enclosures for housing and care of stock, and sometimes by
cultivation of the soil with a view of providing fresh vegetables.
These occupants are not in the eye of the law considered as
technically trespassers. No individual can interfere with their
occupation, or compel them to leave. Their possessory rights are
recognized as of value and made the subjects of barter and sale.
Lamb v. Davenport, 18 Wall. 307. In that case it appeared
that certain individuals settled on what is now the city of
Portland, Oregon, and laying off a townsite distributed among
themselves the lots. Thereafter they bought and sold those
lots as. thing of value, and although such settlement was antecedent to any act of Congress authorizing it, their contracts in
respect to the lots were sustained, the court, speaking by Mr.
Justice Miller, saying (p. 314):
"And though these rights or claims rested on no statute,
or any positive promise, the general recognition of them in the
end by the Government, and its disposition to protect the meritorious actual settlers, who were the pioneers of emigration in
the new territories, gave a decided and well understood value
to these claims. They were the subjects of bargain and sale,
and, as among the parties to such contracts, they were valid."
But notwithstanding this recognition of the rights of individual occupants as against all other individuals, it has been uniformly held that no rights are thus acquired as against the
United States. In Camfie4d v. Urnited Statmes, 167 U. S. 518,
this court sustained a bill filed by the United States to compel
by mandatory injunction certain parties to vacate public lands
which they were occupying without any intent to purchase,
and whose occupancy therefore stood in the way of others who
might wish to enter and acquire title under the land laws of
the United States. See also -]4isbie v. ITkitney, 9 -Wall. 187;
T716 Yosemite Valley Case, 15 Wall. 77.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

It is undoubtedly true that one occupying land with a view
of preemption is given thirty days within which to file with the
register of the laild office his declaratory statement, Rev. Stat.
ยง 22614 and since 1880 the same right has been possessed by one
desiring to make a homestead entry. Act of May 14, 1880, 21
Stat. c. 89, see. 3. So that any controversy between two occupants of a tract open to preemption and homestead entry is not
determined by the mere time of the filing of the respective
claims in the land office, but by the fact of prior occupancy,
and these controversies are of frequent cognizance. Oral evidence, therefore, of the date of occupancy may be decisive of
the controversy between such individual applicants for a tract
of public land, but by decisions of this court, running back to
1882, as between a railroad company holding a land grant and
an individual entryman the question of right has been declared
to rest not on the mere matter of occupancy, but upon the state
of the record. All the cases in this court, in which this question has been discussed and the conclusion announced, have
been since the act of 1880, giving to persons seeking a homestead the same rights-in respect to occupancy as to persons intending a preemption.
The original Union Pacific Railroad act (12 Stat. 492, sec. 3)
excepted from the grant of the odd sections to the railroad
company all those tracts to which an adverse right had attached
"at the time the line of said road is definitely fixed." The act
does not in terms prescribe how or by what evidence it shall be
determined that the line of said road has become definitely
fixed, and for many years after its passage, interpreting this and
other like railroad land grants, the ruling of the land department was that the line was definitely fixed whenever it was surveyed, staked out and marked on the face of the earth, United
States v. Winona.&c. Railr"oad, 165 U. S. 463, 473, and that if
at that time there was no adverse right the title of the railroad
company was settled. Of course, this left such date one to bd
determined by oral testimony, and so as to each individual oddnumbered tract within the place limits of the grant the question of title was determined by evidence of the time of surveying, staking and marking on the face of the earth the line of

TARPEY 'u. MADSEN.
Opinion of the Court.

*the railroad, and corresponding evidence of occupancy by an
individual with a view to entry under the general land laws.
No title, therefore, certainly passed to the railroad company
until a patent had been issued to it; and, indeed, under the settled ruling that land which was held by a prior claim did not
pass to the railroad company under its grant, it was doubtful
whether even then it had received a title beyond challenge.
This unfortunate uncertainty and instability of title continued
until the decisions of this court in Van Wyck v. Kneva.e, 106
U. S. 360, and KansasPacific Railway Comiany v. Dunmeyer,
113 U. S. 629, the first decided in' October, 1882, and the latter
in Mlarch, 1885. By those cases it was settled that the time
at which the title of the railroad company passed beyond question was that of the filing, of an approved map of definite location in the office of the Secretary of the Interior. This eliminated all oral testimony, and established a date at which, by
record, the title of the railroad company could be considered as
definitely ascertained. In the latter of the two cases, Kan8as
Pacific Railway Company v. "Duzmeyer,the same elimination
of oral testimony, the same reference to the record as determining all opposing rights of the individual entryman, was also
declared. That was a case of a homestead entry, but as five
years prior thereto homestead and preemption entries bad been
placed in the same category as far as respects the right of preliminary occupation, it -is not strange that the court in that
opinion spoke generally of pregmption and homestead entries.
After referring to the rule ii reference to the filing of the
iap of definite location in the office of the Secretary of the Interior, Mr. Justice Miller, announcing the conclusions of the
court, said (p. 640):
"This filing of the map of definite location furnished also the
means of determining what lands had previously to that monient heen sold, reserved or otherwise disposed of by the United
States, and to which a preemption or homestead claim had
attached; for, by examining the plats of this land in the office
of the register and receiver, or in the General Land Office, it
could readily have been seen if any of the odd sections within
ten miles of the line had been sold, or disposed of, or reserved,

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

or a .homestead or preemption claim had attached to any of
them.""
And again (p. 641):
"It is not conceivable that Congress intended to place these
parties as contestants for the land, with the right in each to require proof from the other of complete performance of its obligation.

.

.

.

The reasonable purpose of the government

undoubtedly is that which it expressed, namely, while w6 are
giving liberally to the railroad company, we do not give any
lands we have already sold, or to which, according to our laws,
we have permitted a preemption or homestead right to attach.
No right to such land passes by this grant."
And finally (p. 644):
"Of all the words in the English language, this word attached
was probably the best that could have been used. It did not
mean mere settlement, residence or cultivation of the land, but
it meant a proceeding in the proper land office, by which the
inchoate right to the land was initiated. It me-ant that by such
a proceeding a right of homestead had fastened to that land,
which could ripen into a perfect title by future residence and
cultivation. With the performance of these conditions the company had nothing to do. The right of the homestead having
attached to the land it was excepted out of the grant as much
as if in a deed it had been excluded from the conveyance by
metes and bounds."
The doctrine thus announced, that rights on either side as
between the railroad company and the entrymen are determined
by the facts appearing of record, has been repeatedly recognized
since. In Hastings & -DakotaRailroadv. Whitney, 132 U. S.
357, these rights were discussed by Mr. Justice Lamar, who, by
reason of his experience as Secretary of the Interior, was preemjinently qualified to speak in reference thereto. And an entry
which was clearly open to challenge by the government was
held to be effective to withdraw the land from the operation of
the railroad grant. On page 361 Mr. Justice Lamar observed:
"In the light of these decisions the almost uniform practice
of the department has been to regard land, upon which an entry
of record valid upon its face has been made, as appropriated

TARPEY v. MADSEN.
Opinion of the Court.

and withdrawn from subsequent homestead entry, pregmption
settlement, sale or grant until the original entry be cancelled or
declared forfeited; in which case the land reverts to the government as part of the public domain, and becomes again subject to entry under the land laws."
And then, after referring to the contention that the Dunmeyer
case was not conclusive because in that case the entry was valid
on its face, while this was defective, he added (p. 364):
"But these defects, whether they be of form or substance, by
no means render the entry absolutely a nullity. So long as it
remains a subsisting entry of record, whose legality has been
passed upon by the land authorities, and their action remains
unreversed, it is such an appropriation of the tract as segregates
it from the public domain, and therefore precludes it from subsequent grants. In the case before us, at the time of the location of the company's road, an examination of the tract books
and the plat filed in the office of the register and receiver, or in
the land office, would have disclosed Turner's entry as an entry
of record, accepted by the proper officers in the proper office,
together with the application and necessary money, an entry
the imperfections and defects of which could have been cured
by a supplemental affidavit or by other proof of the requisite
qualifications of the applicant. Such an entry attached to the
land a right which the road cannot dispute for any supposed
failure of the entryman to comply with all the provisions of the
law under which he made his claim. A practice of allowing
such contests would be fraught with the gravest dangers to actual settlers, and would be subversive of the principles upon which
the munificent railroad grants are based."
Still later, in Whitney v. Taylor, 158 U. S. 85, in which the
validity of a preemption entry was challenged as against a
railroad grant, we said (p. 94):
"But it is also true that settlement alone, without a declaratory statement, creates no preemption right. 'Such a notice
of claim or declaratory statement is indispensably necessary to
give the claimant any standing as a pregmptor, the rule being
that his settlement alone is not sufficient for that purpose.'
Landale v. Daniel8, 100 U. S. 113, 116. 'And the acceptance
VOL. crxxvIi-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

of such declaratory statement, and noting the same on the books
of the local land office, is the official recognition of the preemption claim. While the cases of K~ansas Pacific Railway
Co. v. Dunmeyer, and Hastings & Dakota Railway Co. v.
Whitney, supra, involved simply homestead claims, yet, in the
opinion in each, prebmption and homestead claims were mentioned and considered as standing in this respect upon the
same footing."
And in -NorthernPacifo Railroad Company v. Colburn, 164
IT. S. 383, we held distinctly that no mere occupation of a tract
of public land in and of itself excepted that tract from the operation of a railroad grant; that a settler could not dispute the
claim of a railroad company until and unless he had filed his
entry in the proper land office. Still later, in NVorthern Pacjic
Railroadv. Sanders, 166 U. S. 620, 630, we said:
"Any other interpretation would defeat the evident purpose
of Congress in excepting from railroad grants lands upon which
claims existed of record at the time the road to be aided was
definitely located. What that purpose was has been frequently
adverted to by this court."
And subsequently, on page 631, we quoted, as the settled law
in this respect, from Kansas Pacific v. Dunmeyer the firsb of
the quotations therefrom heretofore given in this opinion.
If it be said that this rule ignores the privileges given to temporary occupants of land to make entry within a short time it
must be said that it also denies the personal right of the railroad company to fix definitely its line of road. For when the
company has by resolution of its directors established such line,
and that has been marked on the ground by posts and stakes,
it has done all required by the letter of the statute. If it be
said that the railroad company may, notwithstanding its personal action thereafter, vote to locate its road on a different
line, so on the other hand may it be said that the individual
occupant of a tract may abandon his thought of entry; and by
making each of the parties' rights, to wit, those of the railroad
company and the individual, turn on a matter of record, the
court simply gave definiteness and certainty to the congressional grant. It was said in Missouri, Kansas & Texas Rail-

TARPEY v. MADSEN.
Opinion of the Court.

way v. .anas Pacific Railway, 97 U. S. 491, 497, repeated
in United States v. Southern Pacific Railroad,146 U. S. 570,
598: "It is always to be borne in mind, in construing a congressional grant, that the act by which it is made is a law as well as
a conveyance, and that such effect must be given to it as will
carry out the intent of Congress. That intent should not be
defeated by applying to the grant the rules of the common law,
which are properly applicable only to transfers between private
parties." And surely Congress in making a grant to a railroad
company intended that it should be of present force, and of
force with reasonable certainty. It meant a substantial present
donation of something which the railroad company could at
once use, and use with knowledge of that which it had received.
It cannot be supposed that Congress contemplated that, as in
this case, a score of years after the line of definite location had
been fixed and made a matter of record, some one should take
possession of a tract apparently granted, and defeat the company's record title by oral testimony, that at the time of the
filing of the map of definite location there was an actual though
departed occupant of the tract, and therefore that the title to
it never passed. The conditions are very different from those
which exist between two individual occupants and claimants of
a particular tract, for each is there in possession to watch and
know the action of the other, and the question of right is subject to immediate and certain determination. In the present
case, on the other hand, years after the title of the railroad
company had apparently vested, this defendant comes in and
says that this tract was excluded from the grant because somebody was in occupation, and if this can be said at the end of
twenty years equally well can it be said at the end of half a
century. So it is that interpreting the act making the grant as
a law as well as a grant, and recognizing that Congress must
have intended a present donation with reasonable certainty of
identification, this court properly held that the records made
in the office of the Secretary of the Interior and in the local
land offices should be conclusive as between the company and
the individual entryman. And if the ruling at times may oper-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

ate against an individual entryman it does so more frequently
against the railroad company in preventing it from claiming
rights existing at the time that it in fact definitely locates its
line of road.
It will be noticed that the third finding of the register and
receiver states that on the 20th day of October the land in dispute contained "the improvements of a bona ide settler," which,
as they held, also excepted the tract from the grant. This
matter is also referred to in the opinion of the Supreme Court
of Utah. But the exception in the amendatory act of 1864,
13 Stat. 358, of "the improvements of any bonafide settler," so
far from sustaining the conclusion of the local officers, makes
against it, for specifically exempting improvements contemplates
cases in which the settler shall have a right to remove his improvements, although he may not have LLright to perfect his
title to the land. The exception is not of land: on which are
improvements of a bond fide settler but simply the improvements of a bonafde settler, thus distinguishing between a right
to the land and a right to be protected in respect to the improvements.
Recapitulating, we are of opinion that a proper interpretation
of the acts of Congress making railroad grants like the one in
question requires that the relative rights of the company and
an individual entryman, must be determined, not by the act of
the company in itself fixing definitely the line of its road, or by
the mere occupancy of the individual, but by record evidence,
on the one part the filing of the map in the office of the Secretary of the Interior, and, on the other the declaration or entry
in the local land office. In this way matters resting on oral
testimony are eliminated, a certainty and definiteness is given
to the rights of each, the grant becomes fixed and definite; and
while, as repeatedly held, the railroad company may not question the validity or propriety of the entryman's claim of record,
its rights ought not to be defeated long years after its title had
apparently fixed, by fugitive and uncertain testimony of occupation ; for if that be the rule, as admitted by counsel for defendant in error on the argument, the time will never come at which

McDONNELL v. JORDAN.
Statement of the Case.

it can be certain that the railroad company has acquired an
indefeasible title to any tract.
lfor these reasons, we are of the opinion that the judgment of
the Supreme Court of the State of Utah is erroneous, and it
must be reversed and the case remanded to that court for
further.proceedingsnot inconsistent with this opinion.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE HARLAN
WHITE dissented.

and MR. JUSTICE

McDONNELL v. JORDAN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED .STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ALABAMA.
No. 253. Argued April 119,20,1900.-Decided May 21,1900.

The decision in Fsk v. Henarie, 142 U. S. 459, that the words in the act
of March 3, 1887, 24 Stat. 552, with regard to the removal of causes from
a state court, (as corrected by the act of August 13, 1888, c. 866,) "at any
time before the trial thereof," used in regard-to removals "from prejudice or local influence," were used by Congress with reference to the
construction put by this court on similar language in the act of March 3,
1875, c. 137, 18 Stat. 470, and are to receive the same construction, which
required the petition to be filed before or at the term at which the cause
could first be tried, and before the trial thereof.

MATTiE Lee Fennell, a citiz6n of the county of Madison,
State of Alabama, died on the fifth day of August, 1897, leaving a will executed by her December 11, 1895, in which she
*devised and bequeathed all her property, real, personal or mixed,
to her mother, Mrs. M. E. Fennell, for life, and on her death to
Llewellyn Jordan of the State of Mississippi. The will specifically provided that if the mother should die before the death
of the testatrix, Llewellyn Jordan should take. Said Llewellyn
Jordan and Walter E. Jordan, a citizen of Madison County,
Alabama, were nominated and appointed executors of the will,

