CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

486
1827.

that it be certified to the said Circuit Court, that where two
Sor more persons are jointly charged in the. same indictment,

with a capital offence, such persons have not a right, by the
850 Chests laws of the country, to be tried st.verally, separately, and
of Tea. apart, the counsel for the United'States objecting thereto
but that such separate trial is a matter to be allowed in the
discretion of the Court before whom the indictment is trzr-d
411 which is ordered to be certified. &c.
U. States
V.

iCONSTRUCTIO.N OF STATUTE.

VRiSDICTION.j

Vhe UNITED STATES agaist 350 CHESTS OF
PINCOTT and Others, Claimants.

TEA.

Lip

The term " concealed," as used in the 68th section of the Duty Acof the fd of March, 1799, ch. 128. applies only to articles intended to be secreted and withdrawn from public view on account oi
the duties not having been paid, or secured to be paid, or from
some otherfraudlient motive. The forfeiture inflicted by that section, does .not extend to a case where, the duties not having been

paid or secured in any 6ther manner than by giving the general
bond, and storing the goods according to the 62d section of the
act, the goods were fraudulenitly removed from the storehouse
agreed upon by the collector and the importel, by some person other
than the claimants, who were bona fide purchasers of the goods,
and without their knowledge and consent, to another port, where
the goods were found stowed on board the vessel in which they
were transported, in the usual manner of stowing such gowds when
shipped foi tiansportation.
Under the 62d section of the act, in the case of teas, the duties are
" secured to be paid," in the sense of the law, by the single bond
of the importer, accompanied by a deposit of the teas imported, to
be kept under the lock and key of the inspector, and subject to
the control of the collector and naval officer, until the duties are
actually paid, or otherwise secured; and no forfeiture is incurred,
under the 68th section, by tle relpoval and concealment of the
-goods on which the duties have been thus " secured to be paid."
To authorize the seizure and bringing to adjudication of teas, tnder

OF THE UNITED STATES.
rn 43d section of the act, it is necessary, not only that the chests

1827.

should be unaccompanied by the propercertificates, but also by the
U. States
marks required to be placed upon them by the 39th section.
V.
The lien of the government for dities, attaches upon the articles
from the moment of their importation. and is not discharged by 850 Chests
of Tea.
custhe unauthorized and illegal removal of the goods from the
tody of the custom house officers
quare,Whether such lien can be enforced against a bona fide purchaser without notice that the duties were not paid or secured?
The lien for duties cannot, in any case, be enforced by a libel of information in the Admiralty; the revenue jurisdiction of the District Courts, proceeding tnren, only extending to cases of seizures
for forfeitures under laws of impost, navigation, or trade of the
United States.
But a suit at common law may be instituted in the District or Circuit Courts, in the name of the United States, founded upon their
legal right to recover the possession of goods upon which they have
a lien for duties, or to recover damages for the illegal taking
-letainmg the same.

THIS cause was argued by the tltorney!General, for the Madrc 8i
United States, and by Mr. Webster and Mr. Coxe, for the
claimants.

Mr. Justice WVAStINGToN delivered the opinion of the March 15t.
Court.
This was a libel filed ia the Districm Court of the United
States for the SouthernbDistrict of New-York, in the name
of the United States, against 350 chests of hyson skin tea,
imported from Canton in the ship Benjamin Rush, as forfeited to the use of the United States. The libel charges,

that the chests of teas were seized by the collector of the
customs for the District of Philadelphia, on the 6th of December, in the year 1825, at the city of New-York, on waters
navigable from the sea by vessels often or more tons burthen,

and alleges three distinct grounds of forfeiture. Fi'-st, that
the teas, being subject to pay duties, were imported into
the United States at Philadelphia, and were there unladen
without having been entered at any custom house, and with-

out a permit from any collector and naval officer, or from
tny collector of the customs of the United States, the du-

ties imposed thereon not haying been paid, or secured to

.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

488

be paid, according to law. Secondly, that the said chests
tea, so imported, and subject to pay duties, were afterU. States wards found concealed on -board a certain vessel, in the
V.
850 Chests Southert District of New-York, the said duties not having
of Tea. been paid, or secured to be paid, as the law requires. Third,
that the said teas, being so imported, and subject to duties,
were landed at Philadelphia without the permit of the inspectors of the customs of that District, and were deposited
in a storehouse in the said District, agreed on by the collector of the said District and Edward Thomson, the importer of the said teas, who. previous to the landing thereof.
elected to give, and did actually execute and give, to the
collector of. the said District, his bond, without a surety, in
double the amount of duties chargeable on the whole amount
of teas so imported, in conformity with the provisions of
the 62d section of the act to regulate the collection of duties on imports and tonnage. That the said teas were afterwards clandestinely and fraudulently removed by the sail
Thomson, or his agents, from the storehouse in which they
had been deposited, without any permit from the collector
and naval officer of the said District, and without the duties
thereon having been first paid, or secured to be paid, and
were afterwards found concealed as before mentioned.
To this libel a claim and answer were filed on behalf of
Joshua Lippincott- William Lippincott, and Benjamin W.
Richards, of Philadelphia. setting forth, that the said teas
were imported into Philadelphia. by Edward Thomson,
who had the same regularlj entered, and unladen under a
permit duly granted by the collector, in the presence of the
proper custom house officers of that port, and that the said
chests of tea were dily inspected, weighed, marked, and
numbered, as the law required. That bond was given by
Thomson, and the teas were stored, as stated in the libel.
in conformity with the 62d section of the law thereiq referred to ; that a certificate, signed and sealed in due form of
law, was issued to accompany each of the chests of tea,
which certificates were delivered to Thomson, and afterwards came to the possession of the claimants, to kyhom a
bill of sale of the said teas had been made by the said
Thomson, as a security for certain large advances made
1827.

Sof

OF THE UNITED STATES.
by them to Thomson, and that the said certificates were
1827.
then held by them as their property. This bill of sale
being set out in the claim, purports to convey to the claim- U.States
V.
ants all Thomson's right in these, and other chests of teas, s50 Chost
with power to enter the same, from the custom house stores, of Tea.
and to secure the duties thereon, should it be deemed necessary, as a collateral security for certain notes granted,
and to be granted, to Thomson, by the claimants. The
claim then proceeds to state, that Thomson, at the same
time, endorsed to the-claimants the invoice and bills of lading of the said teas, and delivered the same, together with
the bill of sale, and his key of the store, in which the teas
were deposited, to the claimants, that the chests of tea
mentioned in the libel were taken from the storehouse in
which they had been deposited without the knowledge or
consent of the claimants, nor can they say by what means
they were so taken, but they have heard and believe, that
they were taken out by Thomson, to whom the claimants
had delivered the key for another purpose, and were delivered to Francis H. Nicoll, who caused, them to be. shipped
to New-York, with full notice at the time that they werethe
property of the claimants.
The District Court decreed the teas to be forfeited to the
United States, from which sentence an appeal was prayed
to the Circuit Court, where the same was reversed, and
restitution decreed to the claimants, from which last decree
the cause comes before this Court by appeal; and the only
question to be decided is, whether, upon this libel, and the
facts agreed upon in the District Court, the teas in question
are liable to f'irfeiture for any of the causes stated in the
libel.
The first ground of forfeiture alleged in the libel, is so satisfactorily disposed of by the facts agreed in the case, that
it was not relied upon, or even noticed, in the argument of
the cause in this Court. The charge is, that the teas in
question, being subject to the payment of duties upon their
importation, were unladen at the port of Philadelphia, without having been entered at any custom house, and without a
regular permit to land the same having been first obtained.
Yoz. X.I.
2

(ASES IN TlE SUPllLME COUR'T
The facts agreed, admit that they were entered, inspected.
Sbonded, and stored, according to law, and particularly to
U. States- the 62d section of the Duty Act, as alleged in the claim.
V.
The next alleged cause of forfeiture is, that the -teas
150 Chests
of Tea. were found concealed on hoard a certain vessel, the duties
thereon not having been paid, or secured to be paid.
This charge is also negativ'ed by the statement of facts,
which admits, that the teas were not secreted, nor were they
found secreted at the time of seizure, on board the vessel
where they were seized, but were then and there stowed in
the usual and customary manner of stowing such property,
Question as when put on board for transportation. It is, nevertheless,
to the alleged'
forfeiture, on insisted, on the part of the United States, that although the
1827.

the ground of
the goods be- conclusion that the teas were not found secreted, must now

3ng found con- be admitted as a fact not to be controverted in argument, nevertheless, the Court is bound to say that. upon a view of thc
realed.
facts agreed in the statement, which forms part of this record.
they were concealed in point of law, and according to the
true intent and meaning of the act o'f Congress, under which
the seizure was made. These facts are, that, after the
teas were placed in the storehouse agreed upon by the collector and the importer. they were fraudulently removed
from thence 4?y some persons other than the claimants, and
without their knowledge or consent, and after a regular entry and clearance at the custom house in Philadelphia, were
shipped on board the vessel in which they were seized, and
transported to the port of'New-York. the duties thereon
not having been paid or secured, in any other manner- than
by giving the general, bond, and storing the teas according
to the provisions of the 62d section of the Duty Act.
This question arises outlof the 68th section of the-Duty
Act, and depends upon the true construction of that section. It declares, so far as concerns this particular case,
"that every collector, &c. shall have full power and authority to enter any ship or vessel in which they shall have
reason to suspect any goods. &c. subject to duties, are concealed,, and therein/ to search for, seize, and secure, any
such goods," &c. and "all such goods, &c. on wliich the duties
shall not have teen paid. or secured to be paid, shall be .forfeited. 1

OF THE UNITED STATES.
'ihe argument upon this section is, that, aiter the goods 1827.
are stored, according to the provisions of the 62d section,
the fraudulent removal of them from the place in which they U. States
are so deposited, without a permit, and without paying or 350 Chests
securing the duties, in the mode prescribed by the act, of Tea.
amounts to a concealment of them, in whatever place, and
under whatever circumstances, they may befound, that the
real'ground of forfeiture of goods so removed, is the nonpayment of the duties, or-the not securing of the same according to the provisions of this section, and the concealment of them is merely a circumstance to warrant the custom house officer in searching for, seiling, and bringing
them to adjudication.
The Court cannot yield its assent to either of these ptopositions. The act provides for, and defines, by express
enactments, the various acts which should draw after them
the penalty of forfeiture of the goods'imported. Thus, if
they be unladen at any other time than in open day, unless
by a special license, or at any other time, without a permit
by the proper officer, they are subject to forfeiture under the
fiftieth section; and the like consequence follows as to distilled spirits, wines or teas, which are landed without the
special permit provided for by ihe 37th section, or other.
wise than under the inspection of the surveyor or other officer acting as inspector of the revenue, contrary to the direction of the 38th section. These are all acts of illegal importation, and, on that ground, the goods are made liable.to forfeiture. But after they are regularly entered, landed, bonded
,.nd stored, there is no part of this act whicl4 exposes thera
to this penalty for being illegally withdrawn from theplace of their deposit, without a permit from the proper
officer, or without the duties thereon being first paid or secured to be paid. Nor would it seem, but for'the extraordinary circumstances which have attended these and theother teas mentioned in these proceedings, to have been necessary to devise other guards than those which the 62d
section of the act has provided for securing to the United
States the payment of the duties. The key of one of the
locls to be placed on lbe store in which the teas are depo,
sited, is directed to be retained by ths inspector, who is for-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827.

\

bidden toldeliver out any part of them without a writ(en per,
.mit
from the collector and naval officer, to the obtaining of
1U.States which, it is necessary that the duties should be first paid on
Y&

Chests the parcel which the owner desires to remove, or should be
of Tea. secured to be paid by a bond with surety or sureties to the

B50

Lien of the government for

the duties.

satisfaction of the collector, on the penalty and on :he terms
prescribed in this section. The security thus provided by
the deposit might be lost by the destruction of the articles
themselves by fire, or might he jeoparded by the fraudulent,
the felonious, or the violent removal of them from the place
of their supposed safe custody. But that they should be so
removed with the fraudulent connivane, or in consequence
of the culpable carelessness of the inspector, or ofany other
officer of the customs, was a risk which probably did not enter into the contemplation of the legislature. Be this as it
may, it is perfectly clear, that no provision is any where
made to meet the case of goods so illegally removed, whether by subjecting them to forfeiture, or by pointing out any
other remedy to guard the government against the loss to
which those acts might expose it. A remedy, although it
may, under certain circumstances, bean inadequate one, is,
nevertheless, provided by the general principles oflaw The
lien of the government for the duties, which attached upon
the articles from the moment of their Importation, was nbt,
and could not be, discharged by the unauthorized and illegal removal of the articles from the custody of the inspector,
or other custom house officer, having charge of them, and
might have been enforced by the ordinary remedies provided
by law in similar .cases. Whether it could be enforced
against a fair bonafide purchaser of goods, removed from
the store by a permit from the proper officers, without notice that the duties wert not paid or secured, is a question
which does not arise in this case, and upon wfiich no opinion,
therefore, is intended to be given.
In order, then,-to subject teas illegally removed from the
storehouse in which they were deposited, to forfeiture, un,derthis count in the libel, it is essential for the United States
to prove, upon the trial, not only that the duties for which they
were liable were unpaid, or not secured to be paid, but that
1hey were found concealed at the time they were seized. A

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1827.
suspicion of this fact, if honestly entertained by the person
searching for, and making the seizure, would be sufficient to
protect him against any claim for damages in consequence U. states
V.
of those acts, aitfiough it should afterwards appear, on the 550 Chests
of Tea.
trial, that, in point of fact, the articles were not concealed,
But the owner of the goods is not put upon his trial to prove
that the duties were paid or secured, until that fact is established. The expressions in the latter part or this section
leave no room for doubt upon this point. They are that
"all such goods, &c. on which the duties shall not have been
paid, or secured to be paid, shall be forfeited," that is to
say, the goods so concealed and seized.
The argument, that goods sublect to duties are, in the
view of the law, and by a fair construction of this section,
,oncealed wherever and under whatever circumstances they
may be found, is equally inadmissible. If that werethe intention of the legi'.ature, the offence would consist, not'in
the concealing 6t" such goods, but in having the possessin
of them, and the authority to seize, applying to such a case.
would, no doubt, have extended to all goods werever.fmmd
out of their place of deposit, on which the duties had not
been paid, or secured to be paid. The term concealid used
in this section, is one of plain interpretation, and obviously
applies to articles intended to be secreted and withdrawn
from public view on account of their beingso sulbiect to daties, or from some fraudulent motive.
But if the argument upon this part of the case were well Good:s not liable to forfmit..
founded, the count in the libel which we are now examining tre upon the
the
of bagro u ndnot
could not be maintained, since we are all of opinion,
_. .that duties
the duties upon these teas were securedto bcpaid, within the ving been !efair construction of the 62d section of the duty law. By ..r.'.
this section, the duties upon all goods imported, and subject
thereto, are to be paid, or secured to be paid, before a permit to land them can be granted. If the importer elect not
to pay them, he is at liberty to secure them by bond with one
or more sureties to the satisfaction of the collector, or the
collector may accept his own bobd without sureties, but,
in the latter case, the goods themselves must be deposited
with the proper custom house officer pointed out in the
section. These provisions apply, thus far. to all kinds of

CASES IN THE SUPREME COUFI"
1827.
U. States
V..
$5o Chests
of Tea.

goods. The difference as to the mode of securing the au,
ties between teas imported from Chia or Europe, and other
goods, consists in the following particulars. As to the
former, the teas, where bond without sureties isgiven, are to
be deposited, at the expense and risk of the importer, in a
store to be agreed on by him and the inspector, on which
the inspector is to affix two locks, the key of one to be retained by himself, and the other to be kept by the importer;
and it is made the duty of the inspector to .attend, at all
reasonable times, for the purpose of delivering out the teas
as the same may be required, but he is forbidden to deliver
any part of them without a permit in writing, signed by the
collector and naval officer, to the obtaining of which, it is
required, that the duties on the teas to be delivered shall be
first paid, or secured to be paid, by a bond to be given with
a surety or sureties, to the satisfaction of the collelor, for
payment of the duties at particular periods mentioned in
the section. And in case the duties should not be paid at
the period so stipulated in the first bond. or secured to be paid
in the manner last specified, the collector is required to sell,
at public auction, so much of the teas as may be necessary,
and after retaining the sum which shall not have been so
paid, or secured, together with the expenses of sale and safe
*keeping of the teas, to return the -overplus, if any, to the
owner thereof.
As to goods olher than teas, if the importer elect, instead
of paying the duties, or securing the shme by giving bond
with satisfactory sureties, to give his own bond without sureties, the collec.tor is required. to accept such bond, together
with a deposit of so much of the goods on which the duties
are payable, as in his judgment shall be sufficient security
for the amount of the duties for which such bond shall have
been given, together with the charge of safe keeping, and
seizing the same, which goods,,so deposited, are to be kept
by the collector at the expense and risk of the partq on
-whose account they were deposited, until the. sum specified
in thb bond shall become.due. andJ if the same be not then
paid, so much of the.goods deposited'as may be necessary
to discharge the daties and expenses are to be sold, andthe proceeds to be disposed of as in the former case.

UP? THE UNITED STATES.
F,rom this recital of the most material parts of the above 1827.
section, it is most apparent, that the legislature contemplated
the bond of the importer, accompanied by a deposit of all U. States
the teas imported', to be kept under the lock and key of the 850 Chests
inspector, and subject to the control- of the collector and of Tea.
naval officer until the duties were paid, or otherwise secured, as an equivale t security, with a bond, and approved
sureties, if the importer had elected to give such a bond in
the first instance. By no other construction can the express
terms of the section be satisfied. The importer has an
option allowed him, at the time of mqking his entry, to secure'theduties, instead of paying them. How may he secure
them 9 The section proceeds immediately to point out the
two following modes "On the same terms and stipulations
as on other goods imported ;" that is to say, by bond, with
sureties satisfactory to the collector, or" by his own bond in
double the amount of the duties," which latter bond, accompanied by the deposit of the teas, as before mentioned, the
collector is required to accept. It is perfectly obvious,
that this latter security is to be accepted in-lieu of, and as
equivalent to, the former. And we may confidently ask, is
it not so? The condition of the China trade must be in a.
deplorable state, and must necessarily be discontinued,
whenever the value of the teas imported from that country
shall fall below the amount of the duties imposed upon
them, and unless such a state of things could have been
contemplated, what better security for payment of the duties could have been devised, consistent with the existence
of the trade itself, than the-uncontrolled possession of the
articles subject to the duties, with the power to sell the same
for their discharge in case they should not be paid when
they should become due, or should not be otherwise secured
to be paid 9 As an additional evidence that Congress considered this security as at leait equivalent to bond with approved securities, this section goes on to provide, that the
amount of each bond taken for the.duties on any teas delivered under a permit from the store after a deposit, shall be
endorsed immediately on the original bond given by the importer, specifying.the amount of duty secured on the teas
.
delivered out. by whom, and fb, lerm of payment.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827.
U. States

then, the whole quantity of teas deposited should be with-

~ drawn in the mode prescribed by this stction, either at one,

or at different periods, before the expiration of the term of

V.

350 Chests credit allowed, the United States would have precisely the
of Tea. same security that they would have had, if the importer had,
in the first instance, elected to give bond, with approved
sureties, instead of his own bond, accompanied by a deposit of the articles themselves subject to lhe duties.
The goods not
In consequence of an intimation of the Attorney Geneliable to forfeiture under ral, that, in case the decision of the Court should be against
the 43, sec- the United States upon what we have called the second
tion of the act.

count in the libel, he should move to amend the libel by
inserting a count under the 43d section of this law, the
cause was argued at the bar as if such a count now formed'
a part of the libel. But, if the above opinion be correct, it
.is
manifest that such a count would not help the case, since,
if the duties were secured to be paid according to the provisions of the 62d section, no forfeiture could be decreed under the 43d section. The facts agreed, present, besides,
an additional reason why such a decree could not properly be
made under that section, since they admit, that each chest of
the teas in question, at the time of seizure, was duly numbered, and had on it all the marks which the law requires, and
that the certificates required by the act to accompany each
of the chests, remained in the hands of the claimants at Phi.
ladelphia. Now, we are all of opinion, that, to authorize a
seizure of teas, and bringing them to adjudication, itis necessary, under the 43d section, not only that the chests
should be unaccompanied by the proper cert!/icates, but
also that they should be unaccompanied by the marks required to be placed upon them by the 39th section. Both
must concur in order to justify a seizure, and to raise such
a presumption that the teas are liable to forfeiture, as to
throw upon the claimant the burthen of proving that they
were imported according to law. and that the duties thereon
were paid, or secured to be paid, in order to avoid a sentence of condemnation.
Enough has already been said to dispose of the third
couqt in the libel, even if it had been pressed in the argument of the cause, since it i T not pretended that there,

UP THE UNITED STATES.
ks any section of 'the above act which subjects teas to for- 1827.
feiture, on the ground of their having been clandestinely
y
and fraudulently removed from the store in which they were U. States
deposited, by the importer or by any other person, wilhout a s50 Chest.
permit, and without the duties thereon having been first of Ten.
paid or secured to be paid. It is quite unlikely that a case
so extraordinary and disgraceful as that which has given rise
to this controversy, was, or could have been anticipated by
the legislature, which enacted the law under consideration.
One would have supposed,. but for the instance before us.
that the act had provided every guard for the safety of the
public interest, which any imaginable contingency could
have rendered necessary.
the
The only remaining objection taken to the decree of the.lienWhether
ofthe Unifor
States,
ted
to
which
the
duties
of
payment
the
that
is,
Court
Circuit
duties,
the
condia
made
have.been
to
ought
subject,
these teas were
cudbe astion of their restitution to the claimants, or that they should seted bn the
have been decreed to be sold towar.is the payment of the present case?
duties for which the original bond of Thomson was given,
and which remained unpaid.
Admitting that those duties were even now due, which is
not the case, we could not yield our asseit to the correctness of this objection, even if the prayer of the libel had
corresponded with such a decree, and even if the teas in
question were liable for dutiesbeyond those properly chargeable against the quantity seized, which is by no means cons
ceded1
Bythe 9th section of the Judiciary Act, the, District
Courts have exclusive original cognizance i amongst other
subjects, of all civil causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, including all seizures under laws of impost, navigation; or trade, of the United States, where the seizures are
made on waters navigable fiom the sea by vessels of a specified burthen, within their respective Districts, as well as
upon the high seas, and, also, of all seizures made on lane],
or other waters than as aforesaid, and of all suits for penalties and forfeitures incurred under the laws of the UnitedStates. They have, also,.cognizance concurrent with the
State Courts, of all suits at common law where the United
63
VOL. Xll.
,

-

UASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
)tates sue, wnere the matter in dispute, exclusive of costs.
1827.
,.o-.-amounts to the sum or value of 100 dollars.
Potte.
Now, it is not pretended that this is a civil cause of adV.
Gardner. miralty and maritime jurisdiction, and it has already been
shown, that there is no law of the United States, of impost
Or otherwise, to warrant the seizure of the teas in question.
or to subject them to forfeiture. But, even if there were
such a law, the only proceeding which could have been instituted under it, must have been, to forfeit the articles
seized, and not to subject them to the payment df duties. If
the case be not one of forfeiture, we can"perceive no grdund
upon which the Disrict Court could entertain a suit, by way
of libel, to enforce the payment of duties. No jurisdiction
is c~nferred upon that Court in such a case, either by the
above section of the Judiciary Act, or by any other act of
Congress. There is no doubt, but that a suit at'common law
might be instituted in that Court. as well as in the Circuit
Court, m the name of the United States, founded upon their
legal right to recover the possession of goods upon which
they have a lien for duties, or damages for the illegal taking
or detaining of the same. But the remedy which has been
selected, is not one which can obtain the sancti--n of this
Court.
Thv decree of the Circuit Court, reversing that of the District Court, and awarding restitution to the claimants, must
be affirmed.

1IMIS

E

OF LAIDS CHARGED WITH THZ PAYMEIIT OF DIETSo.

POTTER, Appellant, against GARDNER and others, Respon.

dents.
A devise. "I give and devise to my beloved son. E. W G., two
third parts of that my Ferrq Farm. so called," &c. "to him, the
said E. W. G., and to his heirs and assigns for ever, ie, my said

son E. W G. paying all my just debts out of said estate. And
I do hereby order, and it is my will, that my son E. W G. shall

