CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
cisions of the Court are in- perfect analogy with general
Sprinciples, in the application of prescription and presumpLidderdale tionsfrom lengthof time, and continued acquiescence of the
1827.
V.

Robinson. party whose rights are implicated.
We do not deem it necessary to corroborate the Virginia
decisions by comparing them with the authorities on this
subject, as we are to the habit of regarding with the highest
respect the decisions of the State Courts upon causes arising
under their own statutes. But any one desirous of pursuing the
inquiry, will find the law on this subject very well collected
and digested in -Mr. Starke's 3d vol. of his Treatise on Evzdence, and the 1225th page of Mr. .Metcalf'sedition.
Judgment revprsed, and ventrefacias de novo awarded

(LoCAL Liw.]

LxDD.&DALE'S

Executors against The Executor of Ho.
BINSON.

Under the statute of Virginia, giving to debts dtte on protested bill
of exchange, therank ofjudgment debts, a joint endorser, who has
paid more than his proportion of the debt, has a right to satisfaction out of the apsets of his co-endorser, with the priority of a judgment creditor.

Feb. 9tI.
I

THIS cause was argued by Mr. Powell, for the plaintiffs,
no counsel appearing for the defendants.

.Peb. 17th.

Mr. Justice JoHNsoN delivered the opinion of the Court.
The question to be decided in fis cause is certified to
this Court on a division of opinion from the judges of the
Virginia district.
a 8 Pes.'88z. 12 Ves. 418. 2 Vern. 608. 11 Ves. 22. a Call.
325. s Call. 029. 1 Randolph, 466. 3 W7'a. Rep. 520.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

B5

1827.
The bill is filed to recover a sum of money of Robinson's estate, and the debts beingrnumerous, and the assets k
.dderdale
probably insufficient to satisfy the whole, the right of pri- l
Robinson.
oity becomes a material object among the creditors.
The particular demand upon which this question is certified, is that of one Smith, who was joint endorser with Robinson, on a bill of exchange drawn by one Roots, and returned under protest. The bill, of course, must have been
drawn payable to Robinson and Smith. and being taken up
by them, and the latter having paid more than a moiety in
satisfaction of the debt, his administrator now claims of the
estate of Robinson the amount by which Smith's-payments
exceeded the moiety.
There is.no question on his night to come n for that sum
as a simple contract creditor; but he claims precedence,
and the rank of a judgment creditor, under a particular provision of the laws of Virginia in force at Robinson's death,
and under an equitable principle, according to which, he
who pays a debt of a superior dignity is suffered to rank in
the application of assets according to thedignity of the debt
satisfied, or, in other words, is substituted for the creditor
who held the prior debt.
The terms of the Virginia act are these, " All bills of
exchange which are, or shall be protested, shall,. after the
death of the drawer or endorser thereof, be accountedof
equal dignity with a judgment ; and the executors or administrators of' every such drawer or endorser, shall suffer
judgment to" pass against them for all debts,due upon protested bills of exchange before any bond, bill, orother debt,
of equal or inferior dignity, under the penalty of being
obliged to pay the same out of. their own proper good."
The priority, therefore, of the holder, of the bill of
exchange, as well against the estates, of the endorsers,.
as the drawer, is unquestionable; but, the other creditors insist, that as between .the co-endorsers, the riglits
of Smith against the estate of Robinson,. must be determined by the nature of the action to which he would have
been put at law to recover back what he paid above his
moiety, that is, assumpsit on simple contract. But both on
principle and aiqthority-we are induced'to thirjlotherwkq,

596

CASES IN THE SUPREME CWIJRT

What have the creditors of Robinson to complain of1827.
%
They are only referred back to the situation in which they
Lidderdale
were before they were relieved by the application of Smith's
V.
Robinson. funds to the payment of the. bill of excliange. If the bill
of exchange still remained in the hands of the holder unsatisfied, his right to a priority from Robinson's estate as to
-the moiety of the bill, would be unquestionable, and if relieved from that state by the money of Smith, itis but right
that Smith should have refunded to him that sum which
they, without that payment, would certainly have been
obliged to relinquish. This is in perfect analogy with that
class of cases in which real assets have been decreed to
make good to simple contract creditors sums that have.
been taken from personal assets, and applied to relieve the
real estate, (8 Vesey, 382.) or to satisfy specialty creditors.
(Gibbs v. Onger, 12 Vesey, 413.) That a surety who discharges the debt of the principal,.
shall, in general, succeed to the rights of the creditor, as
well direct as incidental, is strongly exemplified in those
cases in which the surety is permitted to succeed to those
rights, even against bail, who are themselves in many respects regarded as sureties. (2 Vern. 608. 11 Vesey, 22.)
That such would be the effbct of an actual assignment
made by the creditor to the surety, or to some third person
for his benefit, no one can doubt. But, in the cases last
cited, we find the Court of equity lending its aid to compel
the creditor to assign the cause of action, and thus to make
an actual substitution of the sureties, so as to perfect their
claim at law. This fully affirms the right to succeed to the
legal standing of their principal , and, after establishing that
principle, it is going but one step farther, to consider that as
done which the,surety has a right to have done in his favour,
and thus to sustain the substitUtion without an actual assignment. And, accordingly, we find the dictum expressed
ih Rokbnson v. Wilson, (
lfadd. Rep. 434.) in pretty
general terms, "that a surety who pays off a specialty debt
shall be considered as a creditor by specialty of his principal."
If the parties in this cause be considered as claiming under assignment from the holder of the bill, and each as as-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

597,

1827.
signee of the claim against his co-endorsee, according to the
actual state of their respective interests, there can be no Lidderdale
doubt of the priority here claimed. This ublect has undergone a very serious examijiation in the Courts of the Robinson.
United States, and in cases in which, as in this, satisfaction
had been made by the surety without taking an actual assignment of the debt.
The first in order of time was that of Burrows 8/Brown
Whann &,Campbell. administratorsof Carnes, ( DeY .1"
saussure's Rep. 409.) This was a case exactly the parallel
of the present in all its circumstances. The parties were
co-securities to one Banks in a bond to Warrington, and'had
all contributed, but uneqbally, to the satifaction of the
3udg~ment obtained against them jointly on the bond. They
had taken no assignment of the judgment, and Brown and
Burrows, who had paid most, prayed to be let in as judgment creditors of Carnes, their co-obligor, in right of the
judgment obtained by the creditor, Warrington. There was,
in this case, satisfaction also entered formally on the judgment, but as this was obtained by the management ofCarnes's
administrators, it was treated as a nullity, and the complainants had a priority decreed to them m right of the judgment
against themselves, coojointly with Carnes, their co-obligor.
The next case was that of Eppes et al., executors of
WFayles, v. Randolph, (3 Call. 125.).in which the surety to a
bond, having paid it off,,but having taken no assignment from
the creditor, filed his bill to charge the real estate of the
principal, upon the ground that he had succeeded to the
'ights of the creditor by the mere act of satisfying the bond.
It was not questioned, that 'sucKwould have been the effect of
an assignment, nor that th' idof the Court would have been
granted to compel the creditor to assign, but the claim to
relief was insisted upon the ground, that with6ut such assignment, the surety could only be considered in the rank.of
a simple contract creditor, and, as such, -neither having a
preference to other simple contract creditors, nor the rights
of a creditor by specialty, to charge the assets descended.
This isprecisely the defence set up in the present case.
but in the case of Wayles v. Randolph, the Court decided
that the surety succeeded to the rights of the creditor. and

5ASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

598

decreed satisfaction accordingly out of the remaining assets,
real and personal, (p. 159.) modifying their decree,
Lidderdale however, so as not to affect the executor with a devastavit
1827.

Sboth

V.

Robinson. for any payment made before the filing of the bill.
In the year 1802, the same point was decided in the Courts
of Virginia, in the case of Tinsley v. A4nderson, (3 Call. 329.)
In this case, a creditor filed his bill to compel mortgagees and
judgment creditors to subject the estate of one Anderson to a
sale, that prior incumbrazces might be cleared away, so as
to let him m for satisfaction, and in applying-the proceeds
of the mortgaged property, the Cotirt was called upon to
decide this question in all its latitude. In delivering their
decree, the language of the Court is, "that for all sums paid
by sureties they ought to be placed in the situation of the
creditors whose debts they have paid, or arE bound to pay."
That this, then, is the settled law of the State in which
this contract and this cause originated, cannot be doubted.
But we feel no inclination to place our decision upon that
restricted ground, since we are well satisfied with its correctness on a general principle, and on authorities of great
respectability in other States.
We will, therefore, order it to be certified to the Circuit
Court of Virginia District, that John Smith, executor of John
Smith, deceased, is entitled to satisfaction from the assets of
the estate of John Robinson, with the priority of a judgment
creditor of the deceased.
Certificate accordingly.

