OF THE UNITED STATL-.
time, relinquished its claims upon Janney and Shreeve
for the payment of the note.
We are, accordingly, of opinion, that the decree of the
Court below, granting a perpetual injunction against the appellant, and a dismission of the bill as to the Nnk. be affirmed. with costs.

-ADaTiALT

3uaisYeInioi'..

-Anms-Y aganst ALLEOII'E.
Qutare, Whether a ;uit zn personarn in the Admiralty may be mruntamed ,gaist the owrer of t ship by material men furnishing
suppl,,s for tue shi, n h,.r home port, where the local law gives
ship winh can bp enrorced bya proceedno speiiv v.r,.oni lithe
ing in rem ?
However this may be in general, such suit cannot be maintained

where the owner has given a negotiable promissory note for the
debt, which is not tendered to be given up, or actually surrendered,
at the hearing.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of Maryland.
This was a libel filed in the District Court by the appellant, Ramsey, against the respondent, Allegre, alleging that
the appellart., at the special instance and request of the respondent, owner, ship's husband, or consignee of the sciooner Dorothea, had perfornled various work and labour, and
found and provided various materials for the use of the said
schooner, to equip and prepare her for a voyage on the high
seas, amounting to the zum of 2,428 dollars. 84 cents, that
the appellant had often applied to the respondent for payment, and been refused, and praying procees accordingto the
course of the Admiralty, &c. A plea was filed by the respondent, alleging, among other thiigs, that iehad given the
libellant his negotiable promissory note for the debt. It
appeared, at the hearingo, that the appellant'had furnished
the materials in question at the respondent's request. ai.rl

1827.
V.
RamsaV
Allegre

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
that the latter had given his negotiable promissory n6te for
Sthe same, which the appellant accepted, giving the following
Ransay receipt therefor.: "Received a note, at four months, which,
Allegre. when paid, will be in full fir the above amoutit." The note
not having been paid, this suit was brought. The Distr-ct
'Court dismissed the libel., upon the ground, that the jurisdiction of that Court, as an Instance Court ol Admiralty, in thli
cause, was waived by the acceptance of the promissory note:
and the decree having been affirmed in the Circuit Court.
upon the same .ground, the cause was brought by appeal to
this Court.
187.

Feb. i9t.

The .4ttorney General and Mr.Jlferedith, for the appellant,
argued, that the District Courts, proceeding as Courts of admiralty and mantine jurisdiction, might take cognizance of
material suits by material men, either in personam or tn
rem.a' The only questioil here was. whether the jurisdiction was waived b) the appellant's taking the note as conditional pa)ment. The note did not extinguish the debt. and,
consequeitly, couid not affect the jurisdiction which originally attached 'on account of the nature ot the deht Without some special agreement to consider the note as payment.
it could not be so regarded. It only operated as a suspension of the remedy during the time allowed for its payment
If unpaid,-the part) might resort to his original right of aclion, as if no note had bee, given.0 Such is the doctrine of
the common law, and- the civil law, which gave the rule to
the admiralty, would be found in accordance. A novation
is the substitution of a new for an old debt. by which the
latter is extinguished. It may be made of a debt payable at
a fdture day. or of a debt presently due, by a new engagement,.allowinga term of credit. But the consent of the creditor must be positively declared, as the law will not presume that he means to abandon his rights under the first
contract. 0 'o authority or principle could be found to wara The General Smith. 4 Wlat. Rep. 438.
on B,1s, Ged. IRS. 130. 6 rranc. -5S.
b Chttm
317.

5 T rm R2p. I I t.I

.E r

.cRvan'Potluer,880. 886.

Pothwer, S8.

(a.)

2 ff. Black.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
rant the assertion, that. althoaah the original contract in this 1827.
case was not extinmushed. the suspc:nsion of the right of ac- _
tion took away the .ir,,dictimi of the admiralty, so that it Ramsay
Algre.
could not-again be resorted to.
Mr. Hoffinan and Mr. leyer, contra, insisted, that the pro-inissory note given in this case was a persoal security taken
on land, and in all respects assimilated the case to that of the
claim for the ma-.ter's wAges. Although, in general, locality might not be the test of admiralty jurisdiction, it might
reasoaably be contended that where the credit is personal.
and 1he security of a kind exclusively cognizable at common law the locality should fix the jurisdiction. In the case
ofcontr,. .s, the admiral) jurisdiction, inpersonam. ought to
be mcr,,ly co-extensive with the proceeding in rcm: and as
the domestic character of the vessel frced the thing from jurisdiction, the person of the owner ought also to be exoAs a securit% had been accepted, which had
nerated.
the efrect of extingu,-himg a common law lien during the
term ofthe note, no proct ss could have been-instituted in the
admiralty on the original contract, and the idea. of reviving
a jurisdiction, which had been thus suspended, was a novelty not countenanced by any legal analogy. Supposing
the jurisdiction of the Admiralty to be dependant upon the
existence of a lien as defined by positive law, the authorities
would show that such a lien was extmngished at common
It had been expressly deterlaw by a new agreenient.
mined, that in case, of dealings or obligations, naturally
within the appropriate jurisdiction of the Admialty, if a
special contract be entered iito, or a special security betaken, the common law jurisdiction will attach as in.ordinary
cases, even though the new agreement does not operate
technically by way of extinguishment.Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the. opinion of Marc 2.
';.he Court : that. as it did not appear by the record, that the
note had been tendered .to be given up, or actually surrena 4 Wheat Rep. 488.
b Yelv. 56. Selw. N. P 1168.

Bitrr. 1498.

c 4 Burr. 19, 0. 1 Peters' Ad. Dec. 2,8. 6 Term Rep. 8;20.
Salk.
7 31.
Bro. Cir. and Adm. Lat, 88. 7.

a

614
1827.
Ramsay
V.
Allegre.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
dered, at the hearing in the Court below, the decree woula

~ be affirmed, it not being necessary to consder the general
question of jurisdiction.

Mr. Justice JoasNsoN.

I concur with my brethren in
sustain.ing the decree below, but cannot consent to place my
decision upon the ground on which they have. placed theirs.
I think it-high time to 'check this silent and stealing progress
of the Admiralty in acquiring jurisdiction to which it has no
pretensions. Unfounded doctrines ought at. once tQ be met
and put down, and dicta, as well as decisions, that cannot
bear examination, ought not to be evaded and permitted to
remain on the books to be commented upon, and acquiesced
in, by Courts of justice, or to be read and respected by
those whose opinions are to be formed up'on books. It affords facilities for giving an undue bias to public opinion,
and, I will add. of interpolating doctrines which belong not
to the law.
There need be no stronger illustration given than this
case affords. Here is a libel, in personam, on a contract.
in the Admirals filed expressly upon the .authority of the
case of The GeatcralSmith. I had never read the report of
thatcase, that.! recollect, until the argument in this cause;
or, if I had, I attached so little importa,,ce to any thing in it
besides the point that it decides, as to have, forgotten that
such dodtrines were to be found in the reports of our decisions. But, upon being examited, what does it amount to?
A gentleman of the bat-, whose knowledge, particularly in
the Admiralty, commanded.the highest respect in this Court,
is reported' to 'have laid down a doctrine in very mplicit
terms. whih, I will venture to say, has no authority in law;
and the Court, carried away probably by the influence of
his concessions, echoes them in terms which are not only
not called for by the -case, bilt actually, as I conceive, contradicted by the decision which 'is rendered.
The correctness of the decision in the case of The General Smith, cannot be questione.d., it dismisses the libel
upon the ground, " that materal men and mechanics, furWsbrng repairs to a domestic slp, "have no particular'lien
-upon the ship 'Itselt for the recovery of their demands."

OF THE UNITED STATES.
But why have they no lien upon the ship 9 or, to speak more
1827.
correctly, why are they precluded from a remedy in the Ad- ,--,
miralty for sub;ecting the ship to arrest and sale in order to Ramsay
satisfy their demands I It is because jurisdiction over the Allegre.
contract has been taken from the Courts of Admiralty, and the exercise of jurisdiction, in such a case, prohibited to them by the common law Courts of Great Britain
for hundreds of years. And it is a fact of the most positive
certainty and notoriety, that so far from retaining jurisdiction over this contract'n personam, after being dri Ven from
jurisdiction in rem, that the former was first surrendered, and
that in the most unequivocal terms.
I refer to the resolutions of February, 1632, adoptedby
the King in council, and subscribed by all the judges in England, and to be found in the collection of the sea laws, and
in various other books, by the second section of the second

article of which it is declared; that " ifsuit be in the Court
of Admiralty for building, or mending, saving, or necessary
victualing Pf a ship. agathst the ship itself and not against
anyparty by nam., but such as for his interest makes himself party, (i. e. a claimant,) no prohibition is to be granted, though this be done within the realm." ,
This resolution implies an express recogntion, that if such
suit he instituted against the prrsou, a prohibition shall issue.
And this I hold to be the test of admiralty.lurisdiction, for
wherever a prohibition will issue, thejurisdiction has been
taken away fiom the admiralty, or it never possessed it.
And, accordingly,. fr two hundred years has this jurisdiction

been abandoned by the British Courts, with the single exception of seamen's wages, an exception, of which it may
emphatically be said, "probat regulam." F6r, if any one
-aill .ile the trouble to refer to the languageof Ch. J.. Holt,
ir. th." - n'i of Cray1 v Snelgrave, he will there find it said,
" that it is an -indulgence that the Courts at Westminster
permil mariners to sue for their wages in the Admiralty
Court. because they may all join in suit. and is grounded
upon the principle, that ' communis errorfamt Jus.'

"

(Lord Ra3/m. 576.)
This privilege is denied to the master, and even to a mate
succeeding to the master, when he sues for hIs wages as

CASES IN THE SUPREME COUWR
1827.
Ramsay

master; so rigid are the Courts of Westminster in confining
Sthe admiralty to the few contra( ts o*ver which it is permitted

to retain jurisdiction.

And when it is argued. that this dis-

V.

Allegre.

crimination to theo prejudice of the master, is confined to
his suit in rem. and that no case can be found in which his
remedy inp rsoitam. in the admiralti. has been denied him,
it becom, s necessary to remind counsel, that this may have
proceeded from no one's ever having had the temerity to
prefer such a suit-a consequence which would necessarily
follow from what I hold to be undeniable, that, except on
the contract for seamen's wages, the proceeding inpersonam
upon contracts is now unknowu to the British admiralty tribunals.
I will sketch a lirief history of the admiralty jurisdiction
over contracts, and a view of its present state.
The study of the history of the adnmialt) jurisdiction in
England, i common with thit of all the Courts of that
kingdom, except the common law Court , presents an instructive lesson on the necessity of watching the advancement of judicial power, in common with all power; inas-much as it shows in what small beginnings, and by what indirect and covert means, aided by perseverance and inge.
nuity, originated the mighty structures against wl,!ch, ultimately, the legislative and judicial power of the country had
'to exert the full force of their united efforts.
The vast variety and importance of the subjects which
the admiralty had appropriated to itself, will appear in a
variety of auti. .rs, but I would refer the reader to Godolphmi's ".View oj the .dmzral Jursdiction," as well for its
antiquity as the great learning and respectability of the author. There, it will be seen, that the admiralty, before th6
time of Richard 11. had arrogated to itself a scope of judi.
eial, legislative, and ministerial power, which withdrew from
the trial- by jury, and placed under the surveillance of the
crown, of which the admiralty was onl) thu representative,
more than half the jurisprudence, and particularly the commercial jurisprudence of the kingdom.

The statutes of 13th and *i5th Richard II. were passed to
set limits to this power, but such was the stability it had already acquired, that it was not until the act of - Ifenrv IN"

617

OF THE UNITED STATES.
mI I whicb vve to the subject exactlv the right which the
constitution of the United States gives to its citizens, against
Onconstitutionl laws, was passed, that this overgrown power
could ie effectually restrained. For it cculd then no Ionger porescribe its own limits in prejudice of the individual
and to the exclusion of'his common law rights. Neurmir
the King nor his proctor could any longer justify or secure
the individual who resorted to the Admiralty in a case in
which the common law could give redress. (3 Levrnz.
353.)
The act of 13 Richard says, upon complaint of encroachments made by the admirals and their deputies, it i.enaicted, "that the admirals and their deputies shall meddle with
nothing done within the realm, but only with. things done
upon the sea;" and the 15th Richard, c. 3. " that in all
contracts, pleas, and quarrels, and other things done within
the bodies of counties, by land or water, the admira! shall
have no cognizance, but they shall be tried by the law of
the land." And the 2d Henry IV. c. 11. provides, "that
he that finds himself aggrieved against the form of the statutes of Richard, shall have his action by -rit grounded
upon the case against him that so pursues in ihe Admiralty,
and recover double damages."
The check given by legislative provision was ft.lowed up
by prohibitions from the common law Courts, and suits under 1he statute of Henry, until, upon the murmnrs.of the
Lord High Admiral at the checks imposed upon his power,
the subject was taken up by the King in council in 1632,
and a kind of compromise entered into, to which all the
different tribunals appear to have at first conformed, but in
which, after a time, the common law judges appear to have
discovered, that the crown and the Admiralty had gained
too decided an advantage over them to admit of its being
adhered to as a correct exposition of the stattites of Richard.
Hence, in the 3d edition of Crohe's Reports, at the end of
the 2d volume, we find these resolutidns declared to be of
no authority, as undoubtedly they were not, since it was not
a regular judicial act. But in this, it must be noticed, that
the authority denied to those resolutions was not on the sub78
VOL. XIl.

18,?7.

-

-*,

Ramsay
Alltre,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
ject of those powers which the Admiralty renounced, but of
Sthose which they retained.
It unsay
Upon this ground. itis well known, that those resolutions,
&
r although printednh the Ist and 2d editions of Croke'k Repgrts. were omitted from the 3d. The mantissa at the end
of the edition of 1767, declares their rejection as authority.
But, even before thd adoption of those resolutions, a decision had taken place, which was conclusive, as well against
their jurisdiction over the particular contract here under
consideration, as against their right of proceeding upon it
by process mn personam.
I allude to Craddock's case, (2 Bro:.'nl. 37.) which was
decided in the 7th of James, or in the year 1608, twenty'our years before the date of these resolutions. This was
listinctly the case of a material man, his purchases were
of cordage, powder, and shot, for a ship, and the party of
whom they were bought sued Craddock inthe Court of Admiralty. A prohibition was granted, and the reason assigned
by the Court is, that thestatute 13 Richard I1." that the
admiral shall not meddle with things made within the realm,
but.only of thvgs made upon the sea, and here the contract
was at St. Katharine's Stairs, in the body of a county." And
thus we see, that in the resolutions alluded to, the claim to
jurisdiction 2npersonam, denied the Admiralty by the effect
of that adjudication, is abandoned by them; at the same
time that they assert the right to exercise jurisdiction in rem
upon the same class of contracts. It war not long after,
however, that the exercise of jurisdiction in rem was also
taken from them. And yet there is a semblance of authority for their having exercised it during the interva, of time
between the adoption of the resolutions of 1632. and when
they were declared to be of no authority. I allude to that
quotation from 1 Rolles dbr. 533. *hich is copied into Ba.
con's Abrzdgment, p. 196. of the 1st vol. and there, together with the note which refers to Cro. Charles, 296. has remained the permanent source of many an error to those
who have not taken the trouble to eyamine into the authority for the law 1here laid down.
This subject %vilbe found learnedly examined u the cases
of Clinton v.T, brig Hannah and shtp General Knox, de1827.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

619

1827
.ded in the Admiralty by Judge Hopkinson, of Pennsylv-ama, in the year 1781 ; and by Judge Bee in the Admiralty
V.
of South Carolina, in the case of Shrewsburyj v. The sloop Ramsay
Two Frends, in 1786, in both which cases the authority Alle-cre
of those quotations is rejected, and the lien of the shipwright to sue rn rem in the Admiralty denied. (Bee's .dm.
Rep. 419. 433-)
Both those cases go to show the law of this subject at the
adoption of our constitution, and they merit high respect,
both for the known ablities of the judges who pronounced
them, and the intrinsic learning they display. They show
plainly, that the quotations mentioned rest altogether on the
authority of the resolutions of J632, to which certainly no.
lawyer will attribute authority any farther than they go to
show, that the Admiralty did not even then pretend to the
jurisdiction in personam upon contracts at all; and upon very
few even in rem.
It may seem surprising, that from the time of Richard the
Second down to the beginning of the 17th century, the jurisdiction of the Admiralty Court should have attracted so
little of the attention of the common law Couits. Ont.
principal cause will be found in the civil wars, and the low
state of commerce, and when the nation returned to a state
of tranquillity, the power and vigour of her monarchs left
little scope for legislative or judicial action. Yet there are
cases to show, that the subject was not forgotten; and when
the increase of commerce, and the weak reign of the Stewarts, presented a motive and an opportunity, that the atten.
tion of the nation was attracted to the usurpations and unconstitutional power exercised by that Court.
It is obvious, also, from the cases and discussions of that
day, that the common law Courts were embarrassed by a
technical difficulty, arising out of the necessity of laying a
venue to every action. As .oon as this was removed, (and
the advocates of the Admiralty murmur very much at the
supposed absurdity of removing this absurdity,) the progress of the common law Courts was rapid in wresting from
the Admiralty every species of contract, leaving them none
to act upon, on which they could themselves render complete justice-accordingtorthe established rights of the par-

'

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1827.

ties.

They are charged .nth absurdity and inconsistency.

~ but I pronounce the charge utterly groundless, for the one
Ramsay
fI~egrc,

principle runs through all their decisions, that of subjecting
to the trial by jury every cause in which that form of trial
could be applied without injury to the parties' rights. It is
true, that where they found them in the exercise of a power
analogous to that of a Court of equity, they did not take from
[ic Admiralty a power which they should only have handed
over to another civil law Court, they had no motive, if they
had the power, to make the transfer. And hence the Admiralty is left in the exercise of ju'isdiction in cases of hypothecation, bottomry, anJ a kind of specific execution between part owners of ships. Their jurisdiction of prize
a id salvage are royalties. and that over seamen's wages is
a peculiarity, but perfectly reasonable and consistent, in
whatever iightit be viewed. In the sea-laws it is called" a
custom of the realm." Ch. J Holt, we have seen. puts it
on the ground of a positive concession and communts error.
And the judges often say, " we permu them to exercise this
jurisdiction, because they may sue together there. and must
sue seyerally in the common law Courts, and there they can
have remedy upon the body of the vessel, which they cannot have [rie ;" thus Illacing the exception in their fhvour
upon the conceded ground of incapacity in the common law
Courts to do (omplete justice, and the equitable ground of
preventing a multiplicity of suits.
My own opinion is, that it stands on a much higher ground.,
and has its basis in the same policy which makes their wages
to depend on the safety of the ship they navigate, by giving
them, in that event, every possible chance of getting compensated. To which we may add, that their thoughtless
character and ignorance, renders them emphatically the
wards of the Admiralty. while the law on which they earn
or lose their wages is a system of the Admiralty. The assertion of the general principle against the captain's contract, finds its solution in his right to receive the freight in
preference een to his owner, and thus to pay himself, and
in the perfect competence of the common law Courts to do
justice in his contract with the owner. In the case of ransom, he still may resort to the Admiralty. and proceed 2n
rem.

OF MTE UNITED STATES.

621

15ut, right or wrong, itis notttlbe questioned at this day, 1827.
"
that the Adiniralty have lost their jurisdiction over con- .
Ramsay
adanimated
most
The
stated.
exceptions
the
with
tracts,
vocates of the Admiralty do not deny. this. They muurn Allegie.
bitterly over its fall, but uniformly acknowledge that they
are eulogizing the dead. In Godolphin, Sir Leoline Jenkins'
Works, and the collection of the Sea Laws, will be found all
in substance that ever was said on this subject. Yet they
all unequivocally acknowledge that its juiisdiction has long
since been at an end over contracts, and tn personat, with
the exceptions I have stated; while they dwell eloquently
on the folly of pluckitig this " diamond from the crown;"
and enlargd greatly on the inconvenience of leaving toajury
the decision of causes which could be, so much more advantageously disposed of by a single Judge, and by a system of
laws peculiar to the Admiralty Courts, and arraign with severity the inconsistencies, absurdities, and unkindly feelings,
with wich the rommori law Courts have stripped the Admiralty of its ancient and eminent power. 1 ven Brown, the
modern champion in Europe of the Admiralty jurisdiction,
but who obviously has only caught' the feelings, and borrowed the arguments of those who .have gone before him, is
forced reluctantly to acknowledge that the Admiralty has for
ages been stripped of these powers, though lie would spare
no efort to restore them if he could. (See Appendix to his
Qd vol. and note at the end, said to be omitted at p. 100.)
It has sometimes been contended that the decisions
of the
common law Courts, as exemplified by their granting prohibitions, is not conclusive against the Admiralty jurisdiction
-that itis a disputed jurisdiction, and therefore that the Admiralty judges themselves should be heard in this "Litis
Contestatto.75
But this is obviously incorrect, for-the Court of King's
Bench, by its acknowledged jurisdiction, as exemplified ii the
very exercise of its power to prohibit, is the very source to
which we are to look for lights to determine the respective
powers of the inferior Courts. And the decisions that
have taken place on this subject, are nothing less than judicial expositions of the statutes which limit the powers of the
Adimiralty. They amount to the construction and applica.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

622
1827.
%
Ramsay
V.

Allegre.

tion of the law of the refilm, of the statute law, 4nd are
therefore conclusive. So every lawyer knows they are held
to be in the British Courts; and together, they make up that
system of law which, by universal consent, was adopted in
the Admiralty Courts in this country before the revolution,
at least on t.hesubject of jurisdiction ovet. contracts,,And in
personam. '1 will now take a brief view of some of the leading decisions, in England and in this country, on the subject
of contracts.
The quotations I shall first make have two objects in view;
first, to show that the particular contracts under consideration, to wit, of material men, have been denied to theirjurrsdiction , and secondly, that, in every instance in which
they have been prohibited from the exercise ofjurisdiction
over contracts, it has been upon aground that is fatal to the
exercise ofjurisdiction in this and similar causes.
On this latter-subject it would be unnecessary to search
further than that article in the 4th Inst. (138. 141.) in which
Sir Edward Coke gives a dietailed account of his own answers to the complaints of the Lord High Admiral to the
King, against the restraints then recently imposed by the
common law Courts upon his jurisdiction. This was early
in the reign of James the First, and notwithstanding the
revival of he clamours against that learned judge on the
same subject, I cannot but express the opinion that it is a
calm, dignified, leafned, and triumphant answer. The authorities which he cites are valuable for their antiquity, as
they show that the Courts in his time were only treading in
the steps of those who had prededed them.
Thus, to prove that charter parties were without theirjurisdictign, he cites Harev. Unton, (31 Hen. VI.) and observes
fliat-there were an infinity of cases to the same point.
To prove that policies of insurance were not of Admiralty
jurisdiction, he cites Crane 4, Pet/i (38 Hen. VIII.)
To prove that maritime contracts, notwithstanding a foreign origin, are not to be taken from the common law
Courts, he cites 28th, 39th, and 40th Eliz.
.And finally, it is important to advert to the manner in
which he explains the rule by which it is to be determined
whether any given contract is or is not of Admiralty juris-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

623

4icion, which is no other than by showing from adjudged 1827.
cases, that the common law Courts have exercised and can .0- -*.
Remsay
V.
exercise jurisdiction over the same contract. (p. 141.)
Sir Matthew Hale, in his History of the Commor Law, Allegre.
when sketching the jurisdiction of the Admiralty. says, 1"the
jurisdiction of the Admiral Court, as to the matter of it, is
confined by the laws of this realm to things done upon the
high sea only ; as depredations and piracies upon the high
sea; offences of masters and mariners upon the high sea;
maritime contracts made and to be executed upon the high
sea, matters of prize bnd reprisal upon the high sea. But
touching contracts or things made within the bodies of English counties, or upon the.land beyond the sea, though the
execution thereof be in some measure upop the high sea, as
charterparties, or contracts made eien upon the high sea,
touching things that are not in their connexion maritime, as
a bond or contract for payment of money, &c. these things
belong not to the Admiral's jurisdiction. And thus the common law and the statutes of 13 Rich. 2. chap. 15. 15 Rich.
2. chap. 3. confine and limit their jurisdiction to matters
maritime, and such only as are done upon the high sea."
(Chap. 2. p. 35.)
I have before cited the case of Craddock, from Brownlow.
to show how early the Admiralty was prohibited from exercising jurisdiction, and that in personam, on the contracts of
material'men. In a note td dbbot on Shippzng, (page 136.)
it is asserted that the same is reported in Owen, under the
title Leigh againqt Burleigh. But I think it clearly a distinct
case, as not only the parties but the facts are diflerent.
(Owen, 122.) but the principle of the derision is the same.
In -Sheppard's Abridgment. (vol. 1. p. 125.) is to be fbund
an excellent summary of the ancient Admiralty law, and one
article merits notice, as it serves very distinctly to show the
true origin of the articles in Rolle and Bacon's .Abrzdgment,
which have been so often relied upon as authority for a rontrary doctrine. He quotes 3 Cro. 296, 297. for the following doctrine, "that a suit may be in the Admiralty Court
for building, saving, amending and victualling of a ship
againstthe ship itself, not againstthe partl, but such as makt
themselves fo, theirinterest 7,rtuis." This is the very ]an.

624

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1827.
.,o-

--.

Ramsay
V.
AUegre.

guage of the resolutions of 1632. and those are the pages in
which they were inserted m the two first editions of CFoke,
before they were exploded.
Sir Leoline Jenkins. whose authority certainly no advocate of the Admiralty will deny. acknowledges, in so many
wordsi.that. the Admiralty could not exercise jurisdiction
over the contracts of material men. (1 vol. 83.)
That the remedy against the ship itself, has long since
begn taken away,. is .established by many authorities In the
American edition of .4bbott on Shipping, a work entitled to
great respect, it is laid down,. in very general terms, "that
a shipwright. who has once parted with the possession of a
ship, or has worked upon it without taking possession, and
a tradesrian who has provided ropes, sails, provisions, or
other necessaries for a ship, are not, by the law of England,
preferred to other creditors, nor have any particular claim
or lien upon the ship itself for the recovery of their demands." (p. 135.)
That the author is here speaking of a " claim or lien" in
the Admiralty, is fully established by reference to the cases
whifch he cites and comments upon. The authorities he
cites fully, bear him out in his doctrine. They are chiefly
Hoare v Clement, 2 Show. Justen v. Ballam, 2 LordRaym.
.805. Watkznson v. Barnardiston, 2 P. Wins. 367. And
numerous other cases might be cited, both ancient and modern, to the same effect, upon which the doctrine seems fully
established in England, that neither shipwrmghts nor material men can sue in the Admiralty, either znpersonam or st
rem, without express hypothecation, and all assigning the
universal reason, that they have the common law Courts
open to them. (See also Bushnel v. Suet, I Vesey, 155.)
Some of those loose obiter dicta in which the most eminent and prudent judges sometimes indulge, have been attr..
buted to an eminent English jurist, which have been thought
to cast some doubt upon these doctries in modern times.
The facts stand thus in the 17th Geo. llI. Lord Mansfield
is,reported to have said, in the case of Rich v. Coe, (Couvp.
636.) "that a person who supplies a ship with necessaries,
has not only the personal security of the master and owner,
but also the security of the specific ship." And, again.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

6Z

1827.
ine years after, he is reported to have repeated the same
dictum in the case of Farmer v Dams, (1 Term Rep. 108.)
in both instances, however, mere gratis dicta with regard to Ramsay
V
.Alegre.
the points decided.
But, in opposition to this, we have the expression of Lord
Kenyot in the case of Westerdelt v. Dale, which occurred
eleven years after, in whicb he is reported to have said, that
he doubted whether the doctrine had not been too generally
laid down by Lord Mansfield, and referred to the authority
of some of the old- decisions, which establish the contrary
doctrine. Indeed, whenwe refer to the language of Lord
Mansfield himself, in the case of Welcns v. Carmichael,
which occurred only two years after Rich v, Coe, it is difficult to imagine how the same judge could have held such
inconsistent doctrines. For there (3 Dougl. 101.) he is reported to have decided, " that a carpenter, in paring with
his possession, bad lost his lien, if he ever had one ;" "that
creditors for stores and provisions had no lien," "and that
work done for a ship in England is supposed to be on the
personal credit of the employer, although, m foreign ports,
the rmaster mzght hypothecate." This is all consistent with
the established doctrines ofthe English Courts, and the truth
is, that if this learned judge had had the subject fully before
him, on a motion for a prohibition, he would never have
confounded the law of other states, or other times, with the
common law of England in his time. To do him justice,
what he decides in the last case, should be received as what
he meant in the two former.
In the third American edition of .Abbott on Shipping, p,
160. 1 find a note in these words: "It does not appear, that
it has ever been held in the Courts of the United States,
that shipwrights and furnishers of supplies in the ports of
the United States have not a lien on the ships, or a right to
Admiralty process, to recover the amounts due them. The
question has not, to my knowledge, arisen in the Supreme
Court of the United States. But in the District Court of
Maryland, after a very learned discussion, Winchester, Justice, decided, that a shipwrignt, by thf, maritime laws, has
a lien on the ship for repairs done, and materials found by
Va0,. XII.
79

626

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1827.
%
Ramay

binl while the ship is in a port of the United States. (Stevefts v. The ship Sandwich, i Peters' Rep. 233. note.) The
same opinion was given by Peters, Justice, in Pennsylvania,.

,Iege.

in Gardner v. The hzp N'ew4erey, I Peters' Rep. 223. (See
also, 1 Roll. Abr 533. 1. 15. Cro. Car. 296.")
From this note it appears, that the learned editor, to
whom, I presume, it is p. be attributed, was not aware of
the two decisions rendered by Judges Hopkinson and Bee,
to which I have above alluded. Both of them will be found
directly inpoint against the shipwright's lien, and the research and learning which they display will be found worthy of the high reputation of the judges who rendered them.
These cases will also be found interesting, from the circumstance of their containing criticisms upon the authority of
the law upon which both Judges Peters and Winchester appear.to havebeen misled, I mean the standing quotation
from 2-Bacon, with its usual accompaniments froin Roll. aqd
Cr. Ch. i. e. Roll. .lbr. 533. and Cro. Ch. 296;
I cannot, however, admit, that the decision of Mr. Peters,
in the case of the .Aew.JerseJ, is a case in point on the proposed subject. For the question of the lien of material
men or shipwrights did not there arise. It is'only mentioned arguendo, as an apology for making an allowance to the
captain out of funds in the registry, for wages paid, and supplies furnished the vessel from his own funds. An allowance, which he at last excuses in a note, by saying, " that it
was not-opposed," and for which he nmight also have plead
the high authority of the case of Watknson v. Barnardiston, (2 P. Wins. 367.) in which the same thing was done.
and that of The John (3 Rob. e88.) But the doctrine laid
down as to material men and shipwrights by the learned
judge, are gratis dicta, and, as is fully shown in the case of
The General Anox, cannot be sustained by the authority
quoted.
With regard to Judge Winchester's decision in the case
of The Sandwich, it cannot be denied that it is directly in
point. But, it is equally true, that it appeals to no authority that can sustain it. It is not by an exhibition of learning that decisions are to be tested, but by sound conclusions
from unquestionable premises. To obstruct ourinquiries by

OF THE UNITED STATES.

6 27

1827.
a battery of cases; or learned and remote quotations, often
obtain fromfaith concessions that ought to be yielded only
to vvestigatton. I admit,that Judge Winchester's decision Ramsay
V.
is charactensed by learning, but certainly his premises can- Allegre.
not be conceded to him, they are founded in error. His
course of reasonng is this:
"The constitution of the United States vests in the Urn.
ted States Admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, and that jurisdiction is vested in the District Court."_ " In England,
(I now quote his words,,) where the jealousy of the civil law
was most conspicuous, while its authority was opeily denied, the principles of equity derived from that code influenced the decisions of their Courts in as great a degree
as in countries where it was adopted. In all of which,
from the books within my power. I can obtain any legal information, every contest or dispute between the owners and
mariners, and the owners and builders, or equippers of -a
ship for navigation on the sea, is of a maritime nature, and
cognizable in the Admiralty." He then goes on to observe,
have re" that the statutes of 13th and 15th Richard I."
ceived a construction which must, at all times, prohibit
their extension to this country ;" and, finally, when he comes
to state the proposition, " Has a shipwright a lien on the
vessel by him repaired for the value of his materials, labour." '
&c.9 he says, " to decide tht question, it is necessary to
examine the nature of liens and privileged debts at the civil
law ;" and, accordingly, he proceeds to examine what is
the law of various countries of the continent, -which are
subject to the civil law, and concludes with adopting two
propositions. thus " I am, therefore, of opinion, that a
ship-carpenter, by the maritime law. has a lien on the ship
for repairs in port, and that the cause being a maritiihe
cause, the Court has a jurisdiction over the person as well
as over the ship." The authorities which he quotes are,
Zouch, Beawes, Palin, Rolle's dAbr. 533. and 1st Bacon,
178.
Now, learned as this decision may be, it is obvious that it
is but a tissue of errors, since it adopts the civil law as its
guide, and the Admiralty law, in the time of its most exi ravagant pretensions, positively denying the authority of

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
the statutes of Richard, and the modifications which they inStroduced into the law maritime.
Ramsay
The laws of the continent of Europe furnish no authority
1827.
V.

Allegre.

on this question. Every state has its own laws on these
contracts, as have most of the States of this Uniop. The
ordinance of Louis XIV. on which Valin comments, is the
statute law of France, and expressly vests in its Courts maritime jurisdiction over a variety of contracts which the
common law Court has taken from the jurisdiction of the
Admiralty. The question. is not what the civil'law would
give, but what remains to the Admiralty of that jurisdiction,
which no one denies that it had assumed under the authority of civil law principles.
The laws of Oleron, which may be called the statute law
of Great Britain in maritime aiftairs, and which I am pleased
to find published in Mr. Peters' first volume, together with
Postlethwaite's Commentaries, give none of these powers
over contracts to the Admiralty.
I think it has been sufficiently shown, and, indeed, in de,.nying authority to the British decisions under the statutes of
Richard, Judge Winchester m t he held to admit, that
the British decisions are contrarj to his decision on the lien
of the shipwright.
Mr. Brown, (in his 2d vol. p. 80, 81.) distinctly acknowledges it to be settled, "that no person can sue in the Admralty for work and labour done in the port before the voyage begins, or tiecessaries sold for the ship's use before she
sails, nor even where supplied to a foreign ship lying in a
British port." Where money is lvinu ir, the registry as in
the case decided by Judge Peters, there has been a disposition manifested recently, to get over the rigid rule, if there
could be found ari excuse for it, but none yet, I believe.
has been found, except for money actually expended by the
captain, and for which he might have hypothecated. There,
perhaps, it may he considered as a quasi hypothecation. (3
Term Rep. 323. 2 P Wins. 367., 2 Rob.)
I will now sbow that Judge Winchester is equally unsus.
tained in his other principle, to wit, that "on a maritime
contract, as a general proposition, the Court of Admiralty
has 'irisdiction over the person as well as over the ship "

OF THE UNITED STATES.

I will not refer to the instance of bottomry by the master,
because I do not believe that he had in mind that case, but
will cbnfine myself t6 the distinct proposition, "that in no
case of contracti, except that of seamen's wages, can the
Admiralty proceed snpersonam," which is the point now before this Coart.
I have referred to the celebrated resolutions of 1632, in
which, when the Admiralty were solemnly gathering up and
consecrating, as they thought, the remains of their jurisdiction, this right is, in express terms, relinquished; to Sheppard's Abridgment, in which, at a period long subsequent,
such is given as the purport and exposition of that document;
and I have quoted Craddocks case, and Leigh and Burleigh's case, in which the Court of Admiralty was expressly
prohibited from proceeding mp ersonam in behalf of mhterial men. I should think here I have a right to demand, if
from the whole library of law books, and God knows we
have enough-of them already, "camel loads," a single attempt to proceed inpersonam, upon a contract in the Admiralty, except for seamen's wages, since the date of the resolutions of 1682, can be extracted. Adjudged cases cannot
be found, because, since the antique cases to which I have
referred, the right has been abandoned. Digta enough can
be produced, and some of those very modern.
Godbolt speaks of the process in rem, as the only process
issuable in the first instance from the Admiralty, (260.)
In the edition of .dlbbott, which I have quoted, in a note
upon th ,case of Hoare v. Clement, (p. 136.y a case arising
on a contract for necessaries, itis admitted, "that the Court
of Admiralty had no jurisdiction over the person in that
case."
In Johnson v Shippen, (2 Salk. 983.) in which a libel was
filed against, ship and owners, on an'hypothecation for -money borrowed abroad on her voyage, it was argued that, if
suit lay against the owners at all, it lay at common law, and
a pro iibition was granted as to the suit against the owners,
but refused as to the-vessel.
In Bull v. Trelawoney, (16 Ch. 1.) Trelawney had sued ln
the Admiralty on a foreign contract, i personam, obtained
indgment, and Bull was in gaol. The latter brought his ac-

629'
1827.
Ramnsay
V.
Allegre.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
tion under the stat. 2 Hen. VI. c. 11. recovered double daSmages,'and was discharged on habeas corpus, on the ground"
of being in confinement in a cause "coram non judice.
Ramsay
V.
1827.

Allegre.

(Cro. Ch. 603. and 3 Lord Raym. 982.)
Brown, (2 vol. 100.) lays down the rule in these terms:
"The general rule, however, at present, is, that the Admiralty acts only in rem, and that no person can be subject to
that jurisdiction but by his consent, expressed by his entering into a stipulation."
And even this mode of subjecthig the person, through the
medium-of a stipulation, it is well known, was itself resisted
at first, and acquiesced in only on the ground of its being an
indispensable incident to the exercise of the jurisdiction -n
rem.
In Keble's Reports, (p. 500.) quoted by Brown, it is expressly said, "that without a stipulation, the Admiralty has
no jurisdiction at all over the person."
In the case of Oustan v. Hebden, (I Wis. 101.) whereone
libelled in the Admiralty. to compel his part owner in a ship
to join in a sale, a prohibitioi was granted, upon the ground
that this was in fact an attempt to exercise a jurisdiction in
personam.
There is a class of cases which may appear, at first view,
to maintain a contrary doctrine, but which, upon examination. will be found consistent with the general principle.
The case of .lanro'v. Almetda, decided in this Court, was
one of that description. They are cases in which the Admiralty proceeds quass in rem, when the subject of the suit
is withdrawn from its jurisdiction. These cases proceed
upon the supposed contempt in withdrawing the res subjecta
from the process in rem. This was the case of Smart v
Wolf, (3 Term Rep. 323.) in which the prize Court had
improvidently ordered the cargo of the captured vessel to be
delivered .to the captors, reserving the question of freight,
but without taking a stipulation bond, in a sum equal to
what afterwa ds appeared due for freight. A monition from
the Admiralty wvas sued etit to the captors "gen[, to respond
tothe captain's demand for-frejght, to the fitfl amount decreed to him, ardd agai.st this proceeding, the Court if
Ting's Bench L.efused a prohibition.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

6,31

Here the prize Court acted upon a quasihypothecation of 1827.
the'oods for the freight, resulting from their reserving the ,.0-.
question of freight; and considered the captors in the light Raisay
V.
either oftheir own bailee of the goods, or in his original re- Allegre.
lanon of captor, against whom, if the goods are not returned
on monition, the Court proceeds as on contempt.
In .Manro v. .4lmesda, (10 Wheat. Rep. 472.) the libellant
claimed redress against a foreign captor, in a cause peculiarly of Admiralty jurisdiction. The captain of a foreign privateer had, on the ocean, seized a sum of money in dollars,
the property of the libellant, which the libellant alleged bad
been piratically taken, and finding property of the captor
here, sued out process against the captor for the purpose of
examining before the Admiralty the correctness of the
seizure, and obtaining indemnity for it. The principal qudestion considered in'thbt case, arose on The form of proceeding; -butthe object-was the prosecution of a suit in rem, to
wit, to obtain restitution of the S5,000 seized by Almeida on
the ocean, as prize.
A case very similar to this is to be found 'in a note to the
case of Smart v. Woff, in which the Admiralty proceeded
against the agentsof a captor to subjqct to its jurisdiction a
sun of money, that had been taken out-of a prize, and passed
int6 account between the agent and his principal.
On the ases of this class, two'remarks will always Ifold
good. Ist, They are instances in which the Court of Admiralty had jurisdiction of the principal question, not contracts,
but maritime torts and prize causes, or their incidents, and,
2dly, that the process ipersonam is only the means to get
possession of the res subjecta ; that is, of exercising an unquestionable jurisdiction 2n rem.
We sometimes hear of a concurrent jurisdiction between
the Admiralty and common law Courts. But, on the subject
ofcontractd, which is the subject now under consideration,
I deny that, with the exception of seamen's wages, tiny such
concurrentjurrsdiction can exist. It is an absurdiV in terms,
for the rule which goes through all the cases, is in direct hostility with it. If the common law can try the cause,.and
Live full redress, that alone takes awa the Admiralty jprisdiciion. This is thepprinciple on which the decisiQns rest

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827.
,-.
Ramsay
V.

from the, remotest periods. The contract of bottomry is
sometimes cited as an instance of concurrent jurisdiction.
But it is a mistake, and an instance cannot be cited, better

Allegre.

to illustrtte the true doctrine on this subject, than this species of contract. If executed by.the master, jurisdiction of
it is exclusive in the Admiralty, because it gives remedy only
en rem. But if executed by the owner, it becomes also a
personal contract. Yet who ever heard of a remedy upon
it as such, any where but in a common law Court, ora Court
of equity 9The contract of respondentia,which is as much a
maritime contract as bottomry, gives no jurisdiction to the
Adnralty either ?n rem orpersonam. (2 Brown, 196, 197.
and 4fast. p. 3 19.)
The case of .Menetonre v. Gibbons, (3 Term Rep. 267.) has
nothing new in it; it is a recognition of doctrines as old as
the hills. The question was, whether an hypothecation was
taken out of the Admiralty jurisdiction, because it was, in
that instance, a sealed instrument. The general -jurisdiction of the Admiralty to proceed zn rem on a bottomry
bond, was not denied. The Court explicitly acknowledge
ihe doctrine, " that if the common law can try the cause,
the Admiralty shall not, and affirm the jurisdiction of the
Admiralty merely on the ground that there was no action
against the party at common law, and the common. law
Courts could not proceed in rem under the hypothecation."
As to the rule there laid down, " that the jurisdiction of
the Admiralty shall be adjudged secundum subjectam materuim, it is as ancient as Brdgan'sease, m the time of Hobart. But this decision is of importance here in two points
of view; since the Court reason upon the principle throughout, that the Admiralty jurisdiction is to be tested by the
common law remedy, and the grant of prohibitions.
There was a case decided in this Court in the year 1824,
which merits some attention. I mean the case of The St.
Jago de Cuba ; in- which the Court, at first view, would
seem to have given a decision in favour of the claims of material men upon a foreign ship, in .a case where no artual
,hyipothecation had been executed. But there are several
considerations from which it will appear, that the Court did
not commit itself on that subject. The most material is,

OF THE UNITED STATES.
that.th -question arose upon thb application of money in 1827.
the r ,tatry of the Court, arising from the sale of the vesfor another cause. Anti, In such instances, it 'will be Rpnusay
isel
V.
seen from several eages, some of which have been notiied Auvgr.
in the course of this difcugsibn, that the Court may act to.
wards creditors as if 'that had been done which might law.
-fully have been done in their favour. And there is a pecuIiai lropriety in doing .this, when the Court, by selling the
vessel, has put it out of the power of the captain to give
that secyarity to creditors which it is reasonable to suppose
would have been given, where the captain had no other
means of getting advanc~s made of money or materials.
Several cases have been noticed of the captain himself baving the benefits of an actual hypothecation extended to him
when he expends his own money where he might have
raised it on bottomry, and the proceeds of the vessel are in
the registry of the Court. Yet this has been severely questioned in the British Courts. (9East,426.) Attention to
the language of the Court, also, will show, that they have
been guarded on this subject.
The questibn which the Court is examiing it, not whe&
ther the lien of a material man attaches independently ot
an ae.tal hypothecation, biqt whether, if the master has excrcse& this " power of pledging or subjecting the vesiel
to material men," the forfeiture to the government, without
notice, would supersede their rights. And, although speak-

ing of implied liens, whether the material man here retained his supposed lien on the money in the registry, was distinctly the question, and the language of the Court ought
not to have aioy other effect given to it.
Yet, I am free to confess, individually, that in a ease in
which an hypothecation would be so clearly valid and lega4
if actually made, I should want nothing but authority to.
induce me to sustain such a claim against the vessel, with
regard to money in the registry, I think this case is authority
for sustaining it, and that it issanctioned by other authorities. (Vide case of The .izi-Jers 1 and the John, 3 Bob.
288.)
Mr. Brown (2d vol. p. 100.) has thought proper to chwxt
VIDL. XII.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
the common law Courts with having "iyvolve

the subject

S-we are now. upon in endless confunion,"
V..

Afl1&je

Too me it-appears. that. the' cfiarge may

oior

reoyreebet

Inadb uppo those who -have, engaged, like "binielf,with so
much- zeal, in an effort to shake the authority of a course of,
decisions that are uniform and-consistent, and with one singli exception, (which exception is- acknowledged as arbitrary, or popitive law,) reducible to a single principle-Ia
principle altogether fgtaltto this action in its origin, since
there can be no question thatthe party here had his common
law remedya,
-And.I consider the -effort particularly ungracious in si
author who is 4rivenv-to 1clcnowledge its futility so often;
one who con.esses, in so many words,
"'that if the parties hav4 bound themslves to answer
personally, the Admitralty .annot take, cognizance ot the
question." (vol. 2ip. 101.)
"That the Admiralty has, ina great measure,.(be should
iaK8-Sakd altogether,) dropped its claim to taking cogni.,ante or'charter-party, freight, and suits by material, mens
nd allnost 4ll 9ther proceedings upon contract, ecept
those, for -edoye.. of segeni's
woges, or enforcing bottom.
(p. ,0.4 ,
1ybonds.'
"That-the Adirafty.is excluded from jurisdiction W*on.
trN*h it'
peron V,.or
sealed, or made on-land." (p. 107.)
-itThat the ,jtrisdiction- of the Instance Court of AdmiraIty, which is ac present seemingly (he should have said
4ifuald4j) allowed by.the law Courts, is, that it is confined,
iAi
.~of,co'ntract, tb suits for seamen's wages, or those
on hypotlecations; in matters of tort4 to actions for assault,
collision, and spoil; and in quasi contracts, to actions by
pait owners for security, and actions of salvage.-" (p. 12.)
"'That the contract of iusurance is, in practice, uniformly
and decidedl out of the cognizance Qf the Admiralty."

(P. 18&)
And, finally) to acknowledge, in the last age of his book,
among his errdtaet omissa; -

"Thi personal'. contracts are.held not to be cognizable
in the Admiraty."
It has sometimes been said, that this is a disputed juris.-

OF THE .UNITED STATES.

6154

.dietiqr; but by whom is it disputed I Not by the Courts of 147
Great 130itain; for, in all their Courtse. as well of commonr
as ofr.Wvil law, when called distinctly to act upon the juri, BIIDIy
Alifrv,
&iCt~n of the Admiralty, there is nor dispute, no contrariety
sbome rulei of ae,
of opiniion; they all are governed by the
cisioi, From time to time, some itrvagait admirer of
Admiralty juiisdiction, or r6jal -prerogatit, has risen up
ih-Englind,*ho has r&vaveA the abcient murmurs- ttere4by the friends of that Court, when reluetnntly putti ; its uturped powers; but, with ft1kxcepti6n, I know bf pa'
part of the ng~liph 4w.thJtat sepms more clearly fixed $44
that of the. dniiltyjunadictioP. Thle .ifortune Ut.t
people will not be coptent .to eavo It e4thay find'it,'b .
'ernplQy themselves in efforts torevfV. what they cannot hqt
If thp l.a1ppX
acknowledge h4as been long.-since ctinc.t,
and
antiquated, et
remote
oppear
subject
should
.pon this
it oe.emembered that the law. has bees fixed- in $n*i.q4
the Tihife ttemAptof Sir 4,
tor two centuries. And'si'
Jt-n/en to reviveit, -no one, I teliev4tpmtl Mr, Br.w 4p"
peired before the public, ,hadmade any. attempt to chani
the law of the Adomalty" in that kingdom.
I have feltAt my duty to pay some qttentiop to e.subject
for sqyeral reasons,
In, tie first pTAce, I itand befre the public is-bearing Pi.
share. of th responsibility Ipctirred.for, vedaw opinions e,tpressed inthe case of TkAGensrdl Smith Fo fpjt
tent of -myresponsibility in that case, I mustrely on the re.peated-decisions which I havre made in my circqit inhog#
lity with that doetriqe. But I ,ai villinWto #eat-it a my
own error,and shall, on that grouan, claip 4be privilejopf
treating it with the greater treedom ; at legit I shall'ncdea,
your to administer the antidote if I have diTued the pol
son, and claim creajt for an unequivocal Tprof or my rev
pentance by a public acknowledgmept that it was. i ,i.
sabile.
I will now examine.hat 'ase upon Its authorities .n.io
consistency with itself.
The case of M Generarmitl was a ease of the Tfi ,t ox,
travagant attempt ever made to enforce this oupposed lien
of baterial men., It-serves to show to what embarrasiment

CASES iN THE SUiESLME COURT
the commercial world might be exposed by pushing these
. maritime liens to excess. Since, ipon the same principle
Ramsay on which the libel was mere filed, however long the Eie
V.
Allegre. that had elapsed, whatever number of voyages the vessel had
made, and whatever changes of property she might have
passed through, she would still have remained liable to material men. For, in that instance, the General Smith had
made a voyage, and the property of her been changed, before the libel was filed. She was admitted, too, to be an
American ship, in her .home port. The Court below very
properly dismissed the libel, and this Court did not hesitate
to affirm the dismission, and. confined to its just import, as
an adjudication, it is most unquestionably correct.
'No man will subscribe more implicitly than myself, to the
authority of decisions in this Court; and I am ready- at all
imes to adheke to thf principles necessarily deducible from,
or conducing to such decisions. But farther than this no
judgeis bound to subscribe to authority, for no other subjects
,are considered And adjudicated.
But the report informs us, that Mr. Pinkney, who argued
against 1he naterial men, "admitted the general jurisdiction
of the District Court as an Instance Court of Admiralty over
sdits by material men in personam and m rem, but denied
that a suit could be maintained in the present case, because
the parties had no specific lien upon the ship for supplies
.furnished in the port to which she belonged. That in the
case of materials furnished or repairs done to a foreign ship,
the maritime law has given such a lien, which may be enforced by a suit in the Admiralty. But in the case of a domestic ship, it was long since settled by the most solemn adjudications of the common law, (which was the law of Maryland,) that mechanics have no lien upon the ship itself for
their demands, but must look to the personal security of the
owner." (4 W7cat. Rep. 441, 442 )
Now I have too high an opinion of Mr. Pinkney's lawreading, and of his talents as an advocate, not to be well
convinced that in this, as well as the residue of the argument attributed-to him, he must have been misunderstood.
And I find my sangction for this belief upon the face of the
report itself; for. witb the exception of the nullity of thA
1827.
-.'-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

687

1827
lien claimed against a domestic ship. the authority which he
quotes to sustain his doctrine, contradicts it in so many %d,-'%.
kaimsay
words.
His quotations are Abbott on Ship. pt. 2. ch. 3 sec. 9 to Allegre.
13, and the case of The Lev Dearborne.(4 Half's Am L. J.
97 ) The last quotation was a case of material men suing
in ter in a home port, and was in point. But the quotation
from Abbott was no other than the very passage on which I
have before commented, and which, although commencing
with stating the doctrines ascribed to Mr. P. as prevailing
!n the continent of Europe, shows most distinctly that the
law is otherwise in England. Mr. P never would have
quoted, to support such doctrines, an author who ha been
shown to assert - that a shipwright, who has once parted
with a ship, or has worked upon it without taking possession,
and a tradesman who has provided ropes, sails, provisions,
or other necessaries for the ship, (i. e. material Inen,) are
not by the law of England preferred to other creditors, nor
have any particular claim or lien upon the ship itself, for
the recovery of their demands."
Mr. Pinkney's quotation from Abbott comprises, and is
limited to the sections that are ocrupied in maintaining tne
doctrine thus laid down by the atithor, and in showing, expressly that it extends to a tbreign as well as a domnegtic
ship.

In section ,o. the ath,,r s 3tes .Justn v. Bullam. (12

L.,,d Raym. 805.) which he Lonsiders as conclusive against
the foreign ihip The distin, tion taken, is not between a
doinestiL and foreign ship. bsit between a ship -- on her soy
age and absent from her owner. and one -n her home port."
knd.even t that case, the law as laid doan by the learned an
notator to Abbott, in a note to the 8th section, upon 9 East. 426
i. tht la,.6,iage of Lord gllenborough, is. - that -,ht mastel
'nay hypupthrratc. not that the hypothecation attache. per sr
or, the contract for necessaries." It is true, he cites Judge
Peters' de, i-ion iin the case of I'ke iNew-Jersey, for a contrary
d,,.trine, but he veeins not to have adverted to the distinction recently admitted between dis tributing money in the registry, which is Judge Peters' case, and that of arresting the
vessel and subjecting her to sale. Nor has he adverted tc
the fact, that Judge Peters places his decision on the auth.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
.jjp.,','-"w

Ramsay
Allegrc

My of the English cases, which 'the text of Abbott alone
will snow are directly hostile to it. To whi'nh may be added,
that even Judge Petersdoes. not couptenaince the doctrine
of a right bf-proceeding znpersronami attributed to Mr. Pinkney. But this,. also, when we find the rest of his reported
argument-so.clearly a inistake.-we have good reason for hesitating to ascribe to hiin. And therather, for that, so w#
read a lawyer would not have.adanced so bold a doctrmn,
without attemptifig, to fitiI some shadow of authbritj *forit.
Even Mr. .Winder. who argued against Mr. Pinkney, does
not venture to put his case upon the taw of England, but re'lies upon tie law of the c.intihent,'and insists on a right arbitrarily td adopt it here.
*Mr..Winder quotes Judge Winchester's decision,.and the
case of De Lorno v. Bdt, from 2 Vallison, 400. But Judge
Winchester affords no authority, since he decides on grounds
which I have shown to be altogether heteroddx or exploded.
' -With'whom the idea originated, that the Admiralty and
maritimejuridiction vested by tie constitution in the Unitqd States, was that which the Admiralty possesed or preteoded to, before'.the, time of Richard II., I am at aloess to
coiceive. Judges Hopkinson, Bee, and Peters, all distinguished revolutionary men, educated before the revolution,
-nd deeply engaged inpublic life until long after the constitution, concurred in fixing the period of the revolution for
the la~v of thejurisdiction of the Admiralty, And who can
doubt that the doctrine of that day was, that the jurisdiction
ai.gently claimed by that Court, was-founded in usuirpation.
The acts of -Richard e4ressly declare it; that of Henry
treated it a vain and void; and such all history proves it.
Yet it is onl bygoing-back to those early times, thatshadow
ofauthorit tau le found lbr the pretensions which it seems
4psedfttut-fbrthin'bur daj, dii
case m a Gailison, I vill only remark, that it was
Of
t th frst circuit, in which the rigkht to proceed
a ilecdbii&
tn.petonwera in the Admiralty was assertd, in a suit upon a
PoYsof insmancei -and if the-isi-prius decisions of the
sd thiCotirte of any.authority here,.it i; only ne.
Wp.to bservr, that-a conti ry-decisiou- has been ren-

-eif

&a~shi tt~ guite let, them, therefome fAll togev

OF THE UNIT-ED STATES.
ther. andc let the question be tested upon principle ani au- 182.7
thority, independent of those decisions.
I now come to the consistency of the opinion of the Court Ramsay
AUegre.
in The General-Snsth,'withitself.
That decision is, that the cotnmon law is the law of' Maryland with regard to the rights of material men, and that it
bht long since been settled that they have no remedy in rem.
But the opinion is introduced with a ictum purporting, that
had they sued in the Admiralty in personam, there would
have been no doubt. of their right to proceed.
And here the question. is, whether there can be found any
where in the books, a case in. which ah oction in persbnara
could be maintained in the -Admiralty,wherein the actiok in
rem was demed to that Court. No auchcake-can be found;
and the reasbn is obvious; that right alone w ould lake away
the Admiralty jurisdiction altogether, since it Would follow,
that the rigbt might bo pursued at the c6mmon law - the
ease of seamen% wages alw'ays excepted,-which I regard as
pQsitive law, and, which, indeed, has been supposed by sorme
to be retained by the Admiralty, under the duthority givw,,
that Court by a- st4tute of ote of te Henrys,.to iontrol IWn
iftitew wages.
riners in t6gard to the atnount
Let tlhe cases be searched from the rerhotestiriod down
to the time of .Menetone v. Gibbons, and the-g4nd of-pro.
hibitiou, and of r~coyerj, under the 2d of 1enry IV. will
uniformly be foubd to bethe competency df.-ihe -codifton
law to enforce the contract. This is the principle-by wbuih
even their jurisdittion in rem is controlled, and lence it fbi.
lows, -that it n6 case--in which they ai prohibited from pro.
ceeding in rem, can they have the actioniIip~reo n.
I consider the decision, therefore, in thd cae .of ne Ge.
ieral Siith; as cbnljsive againzt the .dpetre. W'ich asu
serts the fight of material men to preceef.n .-nrsonam, and
upon-the authority of which the ftfse~t suit is avowedly instituted. At least, a'S there. s no auth&t iven for it by
the Court, we mary conclude, that it has no blttte authority
than that on which we are given to understand Mr. Pinkney
relied for the same dectrine.
I have now said a great deal on this subpact, anf I cbuld
not have said less, and discharged the duty vbkti I feel that

OASES iN THE SUPREME COURT
I27.
.,
JRtnmsay
V.

Allegre.

'I owt to the community. I am fortifying a weak point in
the wall of the constitution. Every advance of the Admiralty is a victory over the ,oinmon law, a conquest gained
upon the trial by jury. The principles upon which alone
this suit could have been maintained, are equally applicable
to one half-the commercial contracts between citizen and
citizen. Once establish the rights here claimed, and it may
bring back with it all the Admiralty usurpati6ns of the fifteenth century. in England there exists a controlling power,
but here there is none. Congress has, indeed, given a power
to lss.e prohibitions to a District Court, when transcending
the limits of the Admiralty jurisdiction. But who is to issue
a prohibition to us, if we should ever be affected with a.partiality for that jurisdiction ?
1, therefore, hold. that we are under a peculiar obligation
to restrain the Admiralty jurisdiction within its proper
limits.
That in case of contracts it has no jurisdiction at all in
personam, except as incident to the exercise of its jurisdiction tn rer.
. That with regard to the contracts of shipwrights
and-material men in her home port, the vessel cannot be subjected,
unless; by express h) pothecation by the owner.
That on her voyage, and where the master is destitute
of other means of raiusng the necessary funds, she may be
so 'subjected by the master, but: it must be by actual hypoI
thecation.
But that wtien the ship-has been sold for other claims, and
the money in the registry, so that-the master no longer has
it in his power to raiqe inoney on her botiom to satisfy demands which- have been legally incurred, cases .may arise in
which the claims of material men and shipwrights, and of
the master himself, may be austamed, without actual hypothecation.
Decree affirmed.a
-a The Editor of t4ese Reports feels it tobe a duty which he owes
to self-'respect, and to the independence of the bar, to tak? some notoerof the comments niade m the above opimon upon the account

OF THE UNITED STATES.

641

1827.,
given in the third volume of this work, of Mr. Pinkcney's ar.gflpent
in the case of The General Smith. Whether the Editor waf'o unfortunate as to misunderstand the argument of that truly learned RamsayV.
person, he is willing should be'determined by the test proposed in
Allegre.
questioning
for
gvnen
there
is
reason
other
No
opinion.
above
the
the accuracy of the report, than that Mr. Pinkney was too well read
a lawyer, and too able. an advoqate, to have urged an argument
cites in its support.
which is contradicted by the authorities ie,
This argument includes the following positions:
1. An admission of " the general jurisdiction of the Admiralty
over suits by material men tn personam, and in rem."
All that is necessary to remark upon this passage is, that it wis
superfluous fox Mr. P..zo cite any authority for a concession voluntarily made by him, argumenti gratia,and it does not appear that the
authorities subsequently referred to in the margin were mtende for
that purpose. On this occasion, as on many other occasions, he probably spoke from the fulness of his learning, and with a confidence,
inspired by his well grounded reliance upon its accuracy
2. That no " suit could be maintained in the present gase, because the parties had no specific lien upon the shipforsupplies uraswed in -leport to wrhich. she belonged."
This is admitted to be an exception to the sweeping denunciation
against the applicability to the argument of the authorities cited in
its support. The authorities cited are, " Abott on Shipp. pt. 1. ch.
5. s. 9-1s. and the cases there cited. Woodruff et al. v. The Levi
Dearborne, 4 Halls Am. Law Journ. 97."
S. " That in the case of materials furnished, or repairs done to a
foreign ship, the maritime law has given such a lien, whibh may be
enforced in the Admiralty."
The passage cited from the text of Abbott, (s. 9.) shows,.that by
"the maritime law" of all Europe, England only excepted, material men have such a lien, vhich may be enforced in 1he Admiralty.
Such was the law of Rome, and such is the law of all the maritime
countries of the European continent. Such, too, was the law of
Scotland, until if was recently iltered by a decision "founded principally, ns it seems, upon a desire to render the law of Scotland conformable to the law of England upon this subject." (Abott, pt. .
ch. 3. s. 14. p. 142 ) How far the limits prescribed to the jurisdiction of the Admiralty in England over maritime contracts, by the decisions of the commop law Courts, after ages of controversy, had been
adopted in this country before the revolutio. and how far the grant of
Admiralty and maritime jurisdiction in the constitution of the United
States is to be construed with- reference to those decisions, are questions foieign to the purpose of this .note The only question here
is, whether Mr. Pinkney was warranted in quoting this passage,
81
VOL. Xll.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

642
187.

"an;the cases there-cited," as an authority.ibr the position, that

'"Mc.

lahas
ati
given such a Hen, which may be enforced in

the Admi,!lty.' The qubstioh is not whether the authority is conv.
cluabve to support the position; but whether it is sufficiently pertiI0eVte. nentto render it probable that it wis aetusUly referred to for that
purpose. It maybe, that there is, as is contended in the above optmon, some dicrepancy among the decisions of the Admiralty judges
in this country on the suliject; but still the cases collected m a note
to the American edition of Aboit, (p. 160.1.are believed to be sufficint to resue the argument attributed to Mr. Pinkney from the inputktion of being directly contradicted by the authorities quoted to
earborne, determinedby Mr. Jussustain it. The case of 2te Le
tice Johnson in the Circuit Court of Georgia, is also quoted by Mr.
Pinkney for the same purpose. That" this quotation was rapont"
will Uppear by the following extract from the opinion of- the learn-.
qd.jdge, as we find it reported by Mr. BaiL " The lien-6n ves is
for material men ana. shipwnghts, exists only in a foreigns Port.
Where the owner is present and resident, the common law principle
must govern. In such case, no lien onthevesselW created.-'7n'the
case of the owner, who, though present when the work and materials are furnished, is transient and non-resident, I is* disposed to
think otherwse, and tA4 i sw ecase lien afted& It is propr
'also to state, what:shall be deemed a' foreign, and what a -domestic

Ramsay

portN as to this question: the sea port*of the differet Stat. ougkt,
to eac,
in this respt, to be coni&d as foreign porteis nkdt
other. Charleston, for instance,, i aforeignport, as to a claim ofthis
HaW*LawJourn. o1-.
nature made ir Savannah."
4. Thaf " in the case of a dbmestic ship, it was long since settied by the most solemn adjudications of te common"law, (wich was
the law of Maryland,) that. mdcbamcs have no'Hen upon the ship
itself for their demands, but must look to the personal security of the
owner."
This position is not denied to be supported by the authorities said
to have been quoted by Mr. Pinkney; but the error imputed to the
report consists in the asserted, liability of a'foreign ship to such a
lien, which (as it has been seen) .is recognised and enforced by the
general maritime law, and which appears also to.have been maintained by several Admiralty. ,judges in this country, and especially by
Mr. Justice Johnson, although it may not have been adopted by the
peculiar law of England.
In makmg these remarks, the Editor has certainly not been in.
fluenced by any-feelings of disrespect towards ihe learned judge by
whom the above opimon was delivered, mor even by a desire to controvert the peculiar doctrines maintained in that opinion. It is his
own character for accuracy and integrity as the Reporter of. the deOsions of this Court which the Editor feels to be assailed, and, there-

OF THE UNITED STATES.
fore, seeks tovmdicate. It is a duty which he owes to the Court, to
the profession, and to his own reputation, to maintain the fidelity of
the Reports, which are received as authentic evidence of the procedings And adjudications of this high tribunal. If they are not to
be relied onin this respect, they are worthless. In closing his labours,
the Editoi has the consolation of reflecting, that it has been hishumble aim to do justice to the learnig and talents of the bar, and to
uphold tle honour and dignity of the bench: How far he has succeeded in this attenpt, it does. not become hur to speak; but he is
willing to submit to the impartial judgment of his professional brethren, whether the above accusation is supported by evideace.

043
1827.
Ramsay
V.
Allegre.

