206

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

standing the opinion of Henry W. M. Connor, as expressed
in his letter to Miller to the contrary.
Edaids'
The only remaining ground of argument relied upon in
Lessee
v.
sgpport of the decree of the Circuit Court is, that the conDarby. sideration agreed to be given for the last assignment has
1827.

failed, and the assignment ought, therefore, to be set aside.
But the consideration agreed upon has not failed. Hibbits,
as must be inferred from the deeds for the two tracts of 1,000
acres each, was not to have a good and indefeasible title;
but such title only as the grants might give, with the incidental advantages resulting from them by the laws of the
country. The 150 acres may constitute a claim for damages, but furnishes no ground for setting aside the assignment of 1817.
This Court is of opinion, there is not sufficient evidence
to show that the assignment, dated the
day of
June, 1817, was procured by fraud, or undue advantage
taken of the situation of Hibbits; arid that the said assignment ought not to have been set aside. The decree of the
Circuit Court is, 1herefore, deemed erroneous, and must be
reversed, and the cause remanded to the Circuit Court,
with directions to dismiss the bill, with costs.

[LocAr LAw.]
EDWA Ds' Lessee aganst DWiwy.
Under the act of North Carolina of 17IM, for the relief of the officers and soldiers in the continental line, &c., the commissionerb
having determined that the French lick was within the reservations
of the statute, as public property, and having surveyed the said
reservation in 1784, the same wasprotected from individual survey
and location, although it exceeded the quantity of 640 acres.
The Frtnch lick reservation has not been since subjected to appropriatiun, by entry and survey, as vacant land, by Rny subsequent
-tatute of North Carolina or Tennessee

OF THE UNITED STATES.

2071

THIS cause was argued by Mr. Talbot, for the plaintiff,
1827.
k..- -- %and by Mr. Eaton, for the defendant.
Edwards'

V.
Mr. Justice Ti IMBLz delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a writ of error to a judgment of the Circuit Court Darby.
Jan. 24th.
for the Western District of Tenrzessee.
The plaintiff prosecuted an action of ejectment in that
Court, to recover possession of a small tract of 20 or 30
acres of land, which had been laid out in lots and tquares as
part of the town of Nashville, the ten-ants in possession
being the owners or occupiers of such lots.
In the year 1818, Patrick H. Darby approrriated, by entry and survey, all that part of the town from lot No. 141.
to lot No. 1-65, the latter inclusive, and having obtained a
grant therefor from the State of Tennessee, he, before the
institution of the suit, conveyed the land by deed to Edwards. This was the plaintiff's title.
'The legislature of North Carolina, by an act passed in
the year 1782, entitled, " An act for the relief of the officers and soldiers in the continental line, and for other purposes therein mentioned," enacted, that certain bounties in
land should be granted to the officers and soldiers in th
line of that State, on continental establishment.
The seventh section of the act, after reciting that.
"Whereas, in May, 1780, an act passed reserving a certain
tract of country to be appropriated to the aforesaid purposes, and that it had been represented to the assembly that
sundry families had, before the passing of the said act, settled on the said tract of country, enacts that 640 acres ol
'land shall be granted to each family, or head of a family
and to every single man of 21 years or upwards, (to inclnde
their improvements,) settled on said land before the first
day of June, 1780, for which they shall have the right of
pre-emption; provided no such grant shall include any salt
licks or salt springs, which are hereby declared to be reserved as public property, together with 640 acres of th:'adjoining lands, for the common use and benefit of the in
habitants of that country, and not subject to future appropriations, and all the remainder if the aforesaid tract n;

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
country shall be considered as subject to partition as by this
Sact directed."
The eighth section appoints commissioners in behalf of
Edwards'
1827.

Lessee

v.

Darby.

the State, "to examine and superintend the laying off the
land in one or more tracts, allotted to the officers and soldiers."
The eleventh section authorizes the commissioners to appoint one or more surveyors, for the more speedy and effectual laying off and surveying said lands.
The commissioners, in the exercise of their powers in
carrying this act into effect, determined the French lick to
be within the scope of its provisions, and a proper object of
such reservation, and caused a survey to be made of said
reservation as early as 1784, which turns out to include
six hundred and sixty-seven and three quarter acres, instead
of six hundred and forty, and embraces within its limits the
whole of the lots laid off in the town of Nashville, and the
land covered by the grant to Patrick H. Darby.
In the year 1784, the legislature of North Carolina, by
its act, appropriatcd 200 acres, part of said reservation, for
the establishment of the town of Nashville, to be ]aid off at
the bluff on the Cumberland river, nearest the French
lick, and commissioners are designated in the act to lay out
the proposed town in streets, lots, and squares, to cause a
plan thereof to be made out, and to sell and dispose of the
lots in the town when thus laid off
Upon the trial of the general issue in the Circuit Court.
after the plaintiff had given in evidence the grant to Darby.
and conveyance from Darby to Edwards, already recited.
the defendants gave evidence conducing to prove that the
survey made of the reservation around the French lick, by
the commissioners, as early as 1784, included the whole of
the land granted to Darby, and then in controversy, and
also, that the commissioners, or trustees, for laying off the
laid off and dis.
town of Nashville, had, in the year
posed of a part of the town lots, and that, afterwards. the
commissioners had laid off and disposed of the additional
lots, to 165 inclusive, about the year 1789, or 1790; but it
appeared that the quantity of 200 acres was thereby exceeded by 20 or 30 acres, -such excess covering the lots

OF THE UNITED STATES.
-from 141 to 165 inclusive, but the whole of which lay with-

909

1827.
in the French lick reservation, as laid off by the commissionEdward's
ers about the year 1784.
V.
The Court instructed the jury, that if they found the land
in controversy, and within Darby's grant, was also within Darbr.
the boundary of the town as actually laid off, although that
boundary exceeded the quantity of 200 acres, or if they
found it was within the actual survey of the French lick reservation, as laid off in 1784. although it exceeded the quantity of 640 acres, the land was protected from individual
appropriation by entry and survey, both by being so within
the town boundary as laid off, and within the reservation as
laid off, or if not by both, it was so protected by being included within the latter; and that, consequently, the grant
to Darby was void.
To this opinion and instruction the plaintiff excepted,
and his exception was sealed, and made part of the record.
It is not necessary to decide whether the land in controversy would, or would not, have been protected from individual appropriation by being actually laid off and disposed
of'as town lots, beyond the quantity of two hundred acres, as
we are all of opinion it was so protected by being within tt a
French lick reservation, as laid off.
It is argued. that the commissioners, appointed by the act
of 1782. were not authorized to cause surveys to be made of
the reservations of 640 acres around the reserved salt licks
and springs, that the reservation was by quantity only, and
that no legal effect can therefore be attributed to the survey
W. admit the statute does not give the authority to survey
the reservations, in express terms, but do not admit that the
authority may not, and does not, result by necessary implication from the duties they were expressly required to perform, and from the general provisions of the statute. They
were not expressly required by the statute to determine what
licks and springs were proper objects for reservation, and
came within the provisions of the statute; but they wer
required to lay off and cause to be surveyed the lands granted to the officers and soldiers, subject to, and so as not to in..
ferfere with, these reservations. The right of pre-emption
granted by law to the settlers, of 640 acres each. includinz
27
VOL. XII.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827.
Vsdwards'
Lessee
V.
Darby.

their settlements, were also to be avoided. It seems to result necessarily'from these provisions, that the commissioners must first determine what were the proper subjects of
-reservation, and having determined that a given salt lick or
spring came within the provisions of the law, the power and
duty of laying off.by survey the 640 acres reserved, and to
be avoided around the lick, seems necessarily and irresistibly to result to ,the commissioners, in all cases where they
imight deem it necessary to do so, in order to enable them to
lay off the lands for the officerg and soldiers, so as to avoid
these reservations. The adjacency of pre emption rights,
too, .might render it both necessary and proper that they, as
well as the reservations, should be laid offbecause both were
to be avoided; But more especially it was indispensable
wherever the commissioners were about to lay off lands for
the officers and soldiers, adjacent to a salt lick or spring, to
have a survey made of the reservation, to give it figure and
fixed locality; otherwise, the reservation being of quantity
only, without boundary, one of two consequences must have
resulted, namely, that it might, lawfully, be encroached
upon on one side, and if on one, on any other side, or that,
practically, its uncertainty must have excluded a much larger
quantity than was intended by law to be reserved from
the satisfaction of the claims of the officers and soldiers.
In the construction of a doubtful and ambiguous law, the
cotemporaneous construction of those who were called upon
to act under the law, and were appointed to carry its provisions into effect, is entitled to very great respect. The law
was not only thus construed by the.commissioners, but that
construction seems to have received, very shortly after, the
sanction of the legislature. By the third section of an act
passed by the legislature of North Carolina in 1789, entitled,
"An act directing the sale of the salt licks and springs, with
the adjoining land, within the District of Mero," it is enacted, that the commissioners appointed to carry that act into
effect "shall cause to be surveyed, where such surveys have
not already been made, all the said salt licks and springs, with
the six hundred and forty acres of adjoining land."
This provision must be construed as recogmsmg the validi-

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1827
ty of, and as ratifying the surveys which had been made by
the commissioners under the act of 1782.
The circumstance of the survey containing a considerable Edwards'
Lessee
V.
surplus we think immaterial. It was a public act, done by
a public authorized agent of the government, and afterwards Darby.
recognised by the government itself. None but the government itself ought, therefore, to be permitted to call it
;n question.
It is argued, that, however this maybe, the legislature, by
the act of 1789, above recited, have declared the whole of
the reservation, not otherwise appropriated to the Davison
academy, the 200 acres vested in the town, and the land
granted to John M'Nairy, to be vacant unappropriated land,
subject to individual appropriation by entry, survey, and
grant, in.the ordinary mode, and that as the laid granted
to Darby is not embraced by either of these prior appropriations, his grant is valid.
We are noL of that opinion. The second section of the
act of 1789, directs the County Courts to make out lists " of
all the salt licks and springs in their respective counties,
which said Courts shall deem fit for the purpose of manufacturing salt, including all such licks and springs as were
set apart by commissioners heretofore appointed for that
purpose, as public property, viz. Heaton's lick, Denton's
lick, the French lick, &c., which lists shall be entered on
the records of said Courts, and copies thereof delivered to
the commissioners appointed by this act, and all other salt
licks and springs, with the adjoining lands, not deemed by
the Court fit for the manufacturing of salt, be, and they are
hereby declared vacant land, and liable to be located and
entered in the same manner as other vacant land."
The act then proceeds to direct how the commissioners
appointed by that act shall proceed to sell the salt licks and
springs, with the adjoining lands, listed as deemed fit for
manufacturing salt. From these provisidns, it was obviously
the intention of the legislattire, that all the salt licks and
springs deemed fit fo. the manufacturing of salt, with the
adjoining lands to each, shall be sold in the manner specially
directed by the act; and the French lick is, by the act itself.
enumerated as one belonging to that clasq.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURW"

It was oiny those nut deemed fit for the manufacture ot
1827
salt, with the reserN d lands adjoining them, that were de-Devereaux clared vacant land, subject to be appropriated by location
and tarry We can discover no other law of North CaroMarr.
lina, or of Tptn.',sec, which subjects the reservation about
any of the fick., emed fit for manufacturing salt, to appropriation by el', I and survey, as vacant.land.
We, therefore, accord in opinion with the Circuit Court.
that the grant to Patrick H. Darby is void.
The Circuit Court, as appears by the, bill of exceptions.
permitted evidence to be given, for the purpose of showing
the Court had no jurisdiction, and instructed the jury, that
if they believed the facts which this evidence conduced to
prove, the Court had no jurisdiction over the cause. This
was certainly irregular and improper. The jury were
sworn to try the general issue, and the facts involved in it.
not to try facts involved in a question of jurisdiction.
The instructions of the Court were calculated to lead
and divert the attention of the jury, from the subjects of inquiry properly before them, to others in no way connected
with the issue. For this error, the judgment of the Circuit
Court mpst be reversed, the cause remanded to the Circuit
Court, with directions to set aside the verdict, and for new
proceedings to be had therein, not inconsistent with the.
judgment of this Court.

[PRACTICE.]
DEVEREAUX againstMARR.
This Court cannot take jurisdiction o a question, on which the opi.
nions of the judges of the. Circuit Court are opposed, where the
division of opinions arises upon some proceeding subsequent to the
decision of the cause in that Court.

IN this case, thejudges of the Circuit Court of West Tennessee, after a judgment had been rendered in that Court.

