CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

480

-theless, competent authority, in the.exercise of a sound dircretion, to permit such objections to be discussed and deU. States cided-during the trial.
1827.

'Ovvm.

V.

Marchant.

[PaacrxcE.]

The VNITBD STATES against MARCHANT &CoIp.
Wherb two or,.more persons are jontly charged m the same indictment with a capital offence, they have nota right, by law, to be

tried .separately, without the consent of the prosecutor, but such
.separate trial is a,matter to be allowed in the discretion of the
Court.
THE opinibn of the Court in this case was delivered
by Mr. Justice Svory.
The question; which comes before us upon a certificate
of a division of-opinon of the judges of the Circuit Court
of Massachusetts, is. this, whether two or more persons,.
jointly charged in the same indictment with a capitil'offence,
have a rsght, by the laws of the country, to be tried severally, separately, and apart, the counsel for tha United
States objecting thereto, or whether it is a matter to heWal]owed in the discretion ot'the Court.
We have considered, the question, and are of opinion,
that it iba matter of discretion in the Court, -and not of
right in the parties. And it has become my duty briefly to
exppounds6me 4 the.reasons which urge us to that conclusion.
The subject is not provied for by any act of Congress;
an , therefore, if the right can be maintained- at all, it mhtst
be as a right derived from the common law, which the
Courts of the United States ire bound to recognise and enforce. The Crimes Act of 1790, ch. 9. provides, in the
20th seaon, for the right of peremptory challenge in capital cases, and this right, to the extent of the statute, must,

March i2a.

-

OF THE UNITED STATEZ.
in all cases, be allowed the prisoners, whether they are tried 1827.
jointly or separately. Upon ajoint trial, each' prisoner may \
challenge his full number, and everyjuror challenged as to U. States
one, is withdrawn from the panel as to all the prisoners on Marchant.
the trial, and thus, in effect, theprisoners in such a case
possess the power of peremptory challenge to the aggregate
of the numbers, to which they are respectively entitled.
This is the rule clearly laid by Lord Coke, Lord Hale, and
Serjeaut Hawkins, and, indeed, by all the elementary writers.6
One consequence of this, in ancient times, was, that embarrasments often arose at trials at the assizes, on account
of a defect of sufficient jurors. The statute of Westminster 2.ch. 38. ordained, "that in one assize no more shall
be returned than twenty-four." The common practice under this statute used to be, for the sheriff to returnfortyeight jurors, although the precept named but tienty-four.
It was, indeed, held, at an early period, that the statute of
Westminster did not apply to criminal cases; but, notwithstanding this, the usuaf practice prevailed, unless the Court
directed a larger number to be returned. And it was not
until the reign of George II. that a larger number was required by law to be returned at the assizes. The history
of this branch of the subject is very clearly stated in 3 Bac.
Abr. tit. Juries, b. 6. and in Kelyng's Rep. 16., It is obvious, that on joint panels, returned for joint trials, at the
assizes, a defect of jurors might, from this limitation, often
take place. And it became a question, in very early times,
whether, under such circumstances, the Court had power,
against the will of the prisoners, to sever the panel, and to
try them severally, if they insisted upon their right of several challenge. It was decided, upon full consideration, that
the Court had ths power. To this effect are the cases in
Plomden, 100. in Dger, 152. b., and i% Kelijng's Rep. 9. ;
and the doctrine has received the sanction of Lord Hale,
and other writers of the highest authority.
a Hawk. P C. b. -. ch. 41. s. 9. S Hale's P1. C. £68. Co. Lit.
156. Beauchamp's case, 9 Edw. IV. folio £7. pl. 40. Plowd. Bep,
loo. Kelyng's Rep. 9.
b See also Z Hak's P 0. 26.
61
VQL. XII.

IoASES IN TIlE SUPREMEI

COURT

Whether, then, prisoners, who are jointly indictcd,. can.
against their wishes, be tried separately, does not admit of
a doubt. It remains to consider, whether they can insist
U. States
V.
Alarchant. upon a several trial.
The sole ground upon which this claim can rest must be.
if maintainable at all, that they have a right to select their
.jury out of the whole panel, and that as upon a joint trial,
one may desire to retain a juror who is challenged by another, and, if challenged by one, he must be withdrawn as to
all, t s right of selection is virtually impaired. But it does
not appear to us that this reasoning can, upon the principles
of the common law, be supported. The right of peremptory
challenge is not of itself a right to select, but a right to re.ectjurors. It excludes from the panel those whom the
prisoner objects to, until he has exhausted his challenges.
and leaves the residue to be drawn for his trial according to
the established order or usage of the Court. The elementary writers no where assert a right ofthis nature in the prisoner, but uniformly put the allowanbe of peremptory challenges upon distinct grounds. Mr. Justice Blackstone, in his
Commentam'ia4(4 Bl. Comm. 353.) puts it upon the ground,
htIathe party may not be tried by persons against whom he
has conceived a prejudice, or who, if he has unsuccessfully
challenged them for cause, may, on that account, conceive a
prejudice against the prisoner. The right, therefore, of
challenge, does not necessarily draw after it the right of selection, but merely of exclhsibn. It enables the prisoner to
saywho shall not try him, but not to say who shall be the
particularjurors to try him. The law presumes, that every
juror sworn in the case is indifferent and above legal exception: for otherwise he may be challenged for cause. What
jurors, in particular, shall try the cause, depends upon the
order in which they are called, and the result is a mere incident following the challenges, and not the absolute selection of the prisoner, resulting from his power of challenge.
This view of the general priuciple-of the common law is
very much confirmed by other considerations. It is laid
down by Hawlcins, (Pl. Cr. b. 2. ch. 41. s. 8.) that where
several persons are arraigned on the same indictment, and
severally plead not guilty, it is in the election of the prosecutoil either to take out toint venires against them all, or se-

'

1827.

v

OF THE UNITED STATES.

483

veral against each of them. This plainly supposes that its 1827.
in the election of the prosecutbr whether there should be a
V.
joint or separate trial. If there had been any known right U. States
in the prisoner to control this election, it seems incredible Iarehanl.
that so accurate and learned an author should not,have stated it, when the occasion indispensably required him to take
notice of a qualification so important to his text. His si.
lence is, under such circumstances, very significant.
But. a still more direct conclusion against the right may
be drawn frown the admitted right of the crown to challengo
in criminal cases, and the practice under that right. We do
not say that the same right belongs to any of the States in
the Union, for there may be a diversity in this respect as
1o the local jurisprudence or practice. The inyuiry here
is, not as to what is the State prerogative, but, simply, W'hat
is the common law doctrine as to the point under consideration. Until tde statute of 33 Edw. 1. the crown might
challenge peremptorily any juror, without assigning any
cause, but that statute took away that right, and narrowed
the challenges of the crown to those for cause shown. But
the practice since this statute has uniformly been, and it is
elearly settled, not to compel the crown to show cause at the
time of objection taken, but to put aside the juror until the
whole panel is gone through. Hawkins, on this point, says,
(PI. Cr. b. 2.ch. 43.s. 2. s. 3.) "if thekingchallengeajuror
before the panel is perused, it i' agreed that he need not
show any cause of lZit challetige, till the whole panel begone
through, and it appears that there will not be a full jury
without the person so challenged. And if the defendant, in
order to oblige the king to show cause, presently challenge,
touts parava;Ie; yet it bath been adjudged, that the defen.
dant shall be first put to show all his causes of challenge lefore the king need to show any." And the learned author
is fully borne out by the authorities which he cites, and the
same rule has been recogmsed down to the present times.4
a Hale'sP C. ch 3t.p. 271. s Bac.Abrndg.JuryE. 10. Rex v,

Conigsmarke, 9 Howells State Trwls, 1. Rex v. Stapleton, a

HowelPs State Trads, 50S. Rex v. Borosky, 9 Howell's State Trials.
1. Rex v. Gray, Id. 197. S. C., T Raym. 473. Rex v. Grahmie,
1 Howll's ,.tate Trals, 646. Rex. v. Cook. 13 !foweI'.q .fqSy,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827.

This acknowledged right of peremptory challenge exist-

~ing in the crown before the statute of 33s Edw. i., and the

U. Btates uniform practice which has prevailed since that statute, to
V.
Marchant. allow a qualified and conditional exercise of the same right,
if other sufficient jurors remained for the trial. demoiistrate,
as we think, that no such power of selecting his jury belongs, or was ever supposed to belong, by the common law,
to the prisoner; and that, therefore, he could not demand.
as matter of right a separate trial to enable himto exercise
it. In a separate or joint trial, he could at any time be defeated by the crown of such choice, by its own admitted prcrogative.
The circumstances already alluded to, of the right of each
prisoner on a joint trial to exercise his full right of peremptory challenge, and the small number of jurors usually returned on the panel at the assizes, accounts in a very satisfactory manner for the language used in some of the cases, as
to the necessity of directing separate trials where the prnsoners refused to join in their challinges. The plain reason
was, that otherwise there could be no trial at all, for defect
ofjurors, at the same assizes ; and, therefore, the Court, infurtherance ofpublic justice, were accustomed, without the
consent of the prisoners, to direct a separate trial. In thi3
way the reason of the pmctice is understood by Lord Hale,
(2 Hale P. C. ch. 34. p. 263.) and by Hawkwns, (Hawzk. P.
C. 'b. 2. ch. 41. s. 9.) andby other more recent writers on
common law.' In this manner the language of Lord Holt
in Cha"tods case, (12 HosDes State "1"fuls, 434. S. C.
3 Salk. 81.) is to be interpreted'; for it is manifest, that he
could not intend that there could not be a joint trial where
the prispners challenged separately, for no rule was better
settled in his.time than that they could. Indeed, in Rex v.
Grahme, (12 Howel's State Tmals, 646. '673.) the same
learned judge uses similar language in a sense which admits
of no other interpretation ; and this was the answer given
to it when cited in a later case for the like purpose.
Trials, su. Rex v. Home Tooke, 25' Howsl's State Trials, 1. 24.
1 Chit's Cris. Lat,, 583. Rex v. Campion, i Bowe!/' state
'rials, 1050

- a I Chitty's Crim. Law, 635.

See Starkie's Crim, PL ss.

ok- THE UMieVED STATES.

486

1827.
T'rat case is Rex v. .Noble and others, in 1713, before
Lord Chief Justice Parker, and reported in the State 'I-riIn U. States
als. (9 Jargr St. Tr. 1. S.C. 15 Howell's St. Tr. 731.)
that case, whiuh was an indictment for murder, Noble mov- Marchant.
ed the Court for a separate trial, and the motion was denied. He Aras convicted, and when brought up for judgment,
he moved in arrest of judgment this very matter, that there
was a mis-trial, because (to use his own words) "we were
severed in our challenges, and yet were tried together by
the same jury ;" and he relied upon the language of Lord
Rolt, in Charnock's case, as in point. The Court overruled
the objection, and stated, that Lord Holt's language referred
solely to the public inconvenience, on account of a probable
defect of jurors, and not to any matter of right in the prisoners. Sentence was accordingly passed upon the prisoner,
and he was executed. There is a curious and learned commentary appended in a note to this trial, which was printed
before the execution of Noble, in which an attempt was
made to question the correctness of the decision. But it is
therein admitted, that Noble's counsel declined to argue the
point, though requested, from which we cannot but infer,
that they thought the objection unfounded. ,The decision
itself has never since been questioned, or denied. We
have, therefore, in the present case, not merely lhe absence
of any authority in-favour of the matter of right, but the
course of practice, and the general reasoning deducible
fr6m the prerogative of the crown against it, and, lastly, a
direct authority, in times when the administration of criminaljustice was unsuspected. on the very point.
Such is the substance of the reasons which induce us to
decide against the claim as a matter of right. In our opinion, it is a matter of sound discretion, to be exercised by the
Court with all due regard and tenderness to prisoners, according to the known, humanity of our criminal jutisprudence.
A certificate is, accordingly, to be sent to the Circuit
Court.
CERTIFICATE. This cause came on, &c. On conside.
ration whereof, it is ORDERED and ADJUDGED by this Court.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

486
1827.

that it be certified to the said Circuit Court, that where two
Sor more persons are jointly charged in the. same indictment,

with a capital offence, such persons have not a right, by the
850 Chests laws of the country, to be tried st.verally, separately, and
of Tea. apart, the counsel for the United'States objecting thereto
but that such separate trial is a matter to be allowed in the
discretion of the Court before whom the indictment is trzr-d
411 which is ordered to be certified. &c.
U. States
V.

iCONSTRUCTIO.N OF STATUTE.

VRiSDICTION.j

Vhe UNITED STATES agaist 350 CHESTS OF
PINCOTT and Others, Claimants.

TEA.

Lip

The term " concealed," as used in the 68th section of the Duty Acof the fd of March, 1799, ch. 128. applies only to articles intended to be secreted and withdrawn from public view on account oi
the duties not having been paid, or secured to be paid, or from
some otherfraudlient motive. The forfeiture inflicted by that section, does .not extend to a case where, the duties not having been

paid or secured in any 6ther manner than by giving the general
bond, and storing the goods according to the 62d section of the
act, the goods were fraudulenitly removed from the storehouse
agreed upon by the collector and the importel, by some person other
than the claimants, who were bona fide purchasers of the goods,
and without their knowledge and consent, to another port, where
the goods were found stowed on board the vessel in which they
were transported, in the usual manner of stowing such gowds when
shipped foi tiansportation.
Under the 62d section of the act, in the case of teas, the duties are
" secured to be paid," in the sense of the law, by the single bond
of the importer, accompanied by a deposit of the teas imported, to
be kept under the lock and key of the inspector, and subject to
the control of the collector and naval officer, until the duties are
actually paid, or otherwise secured; and no forfeiture is incurred,
under the 68th section, by tle relpoval and concealment of the
-goods on which the duties have been thus " secured to be paid."
To authorize the seizure and bringing to adjudication of teas, tnder

