CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827,
Bank of the
U. S.

[ConRoiAT oXs.]

V.

Dandridge. THE PRESIDENT, DIRECTORS and COMPANY OF THE BANK
OF THE UNITED STATES,

againstDANDRIDGE and Others.

In a suit brought by the President, Directors and Company of the
Bank of the United States, upon a bond given to the bank to secure the faithful performance of the official duties of one of its
cashiers, evidence of the execution of the bond, and of its approval by the board of directors, (according to the rules and regulations contained in the charter of the bank,) is admissible, notwithstanding there was no record of such approval, and the plaintiff may prove the fact of such approval by the board, by presump-

tive evidence, in the same manner as such fact might be proved in
the case of private persons, not acting as a corporation, or as the
agents of a corporation.
Where, in such a case, the cashier is duly appointed, and permitted
to act in his office, for a long time, under the sanction of the directors, it is not necessary that his official bond should be accewl
by the board of directors as satisfactory, according tohe terms of
the charter, in order to enable him to enter legally on the duties of
his office, or to make is sureties responsible for te non.performance of those duties. The charter and the by-laws are to.be considered, in this respect, as dirTetory to the board, and not as cendi-

tions precedent.
THIS cause was very elaborately argued by the .4ttorney
Fe. 6th an
Generaland Mr. Webster, for the plaintiffs, and by.Mr. Taze7th.
well, for the defendants. But as the arguments are very fully
stated, and the authorities cited and commented on, in the
opinions of the learned judges, it has not been thought necessary to insert them.
Feb.

28th.

Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court:

This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court for the District of Virgwia. The original action was debt on a bond,
purporting to be signed by Dandridge, as principal, and
Carter B. Page, Wilson Allen, James Brown, Jr., Thomas
Taylor, Harry Heth, and Andrew Stevenson, as his sureties,
snd was brought jointly agaiist all the parties. The condi-

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1827.
t(on of the bopd, after reciting that Dandridge had been ap'
pointed cashier of the office of discount and deposit of the '-vBank of the United States at Richmond, Virginia, was, that Ban. Of the
v.
if he should well, and truly, and faithfully discharge the duties and trust reposed in him as cashier of the said office, Dandridge.
then the obligation to be void, otherwise to remain in full
force and virtue. The declaration set forth the condition,
and assigned various breaches. Dandridge made no defence, apd the suit was abated as to Pe'th by his death.
The other defendants severed in their pleas. It is not
thought necessary to state the pleadings at large, it is sufficient to -state, that Stevenson and Allen pleaded, among
other-pleas, non eatfactum generally, and also special pleas
of non est factum, on which issues were joined, and that
all the defendants in various forms pleaded, that the instrument was not the deed of Stevenson; and further pleaded,
that the bond' had never been approved, according to the
provisions of the 30th article of the rules and regulations
of the bank. Issues were also taken on these pleas ,and the
cause came on for trial upon all the issues of fact.
At the trial, evidence was offered for the purpose of establishing the due execution of the bond by the defendants,
and particularly by Stevenson and Allen, and its approval
by the plaintiffs. The evidence was objected to on behalf
of the-defendants, as not sufficient to be left to the jury, to
infer a delivery of the bond, and the acceptance and approval thereof by the directors of the bank, according to the
provisions of their charter; and the objection was sustained.
the Court being of opinion, that although the scroll affixed
by Allen to his name, is in Virginia equivalent to a seal of
wax, and although proof of the handwriting of Stevenson,
and the bond being in possession of the plaintiffs, and put
in suit by them, and the introduction of Dandridge into the
office of cashier, and his continuing to act in that office,
would, in general, be prinzafacze evidence, to be submitted
to the jury, as proof that the bond was fully executed and
accepted, yet it was not evidence Qf that fact, or of the obligation of the bond in this case; because, under the act of
Copgress, incorporating the Bank of the United States, th.
bond ought to be satisfactor to the board of directors. befo-VOL. XL-

9

CASES LN THE SUPREME COURT
182'7
iconsequently

the cashter can legally enter on the duties of hts office, and
before hu sureties can be responsiblefor his non-

Bank febperformance of those duties; and that the evidence in this
U. S

case did not prove such acceptance and approbation of the
V.
Dandndge. bond, as is required by law for its completion. This opimon constitutes the subject matter of the first bill'of exceptions.
Farther evidence was then offered by the plaintiffh for the
same purpose, the particulars of which are not now necessary to be enumerated, to which the defendants took various objections, and coAtended, among other things, that
the whole of the evidence, if legal, was not sufficient to go
to the jury, upon which to infer the delivery of the. paper
as the act and deed of the defendants, and its acceptance
and approbation by the directors of the bank, pursuant to
their charter; which objection was sustained, and the Court
excluded the whole, and every part of the said evidence
from the jury, being of opinion that the board of directors
keep a record of their proceedings, which record, or a copy
of it, showing the assent of the directors to this bond, was
necessary to show that such assent was given; and ifsuch.
assent had not been entered on the record of the proceedings
of the satd directors, the bond was meffectual, and no claim
in favour of the plaintiffs could be founded thereon against
the defendants in these issues. This opinion of the Court
constitutes the subject matter of the second bill of exceptions.
It has become the duty of this Court, upon the present writ of error, to decide whether these opinions of the
Circuit Court, or either of them, can be maintained in point
of law.
It is material -to state, that the rejection of the evidence
did not proceed upon the ground that it was of a secondary
nature, leaving behind, in the possession of the plaintiffs,
evidence of a higher and more satisfactory nature. On the
contrary, the whole structure of the case shows, that there
was in the understanding of both the parties, no record ever
made of the approval or acceptance of the bon4 in question; and the principal controversy was, whether it could
be established by any evidence short'of such record proof.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
The propositions maintained by the Circuit Court were
in substance these. First, that the cashier could not legally enter upon the duties of his office, or make his sureties ank. s.f th
responsible for his non-performance of those duties, before
V.
his official bond was acepted as satisfactory by the board Dandridge.
of directors, according to the terms of the charter. Secondly, that such acceptance could .be established only by
proof drawn from the records o4the .board of directors;
and if no record had been kept of,such assent and acceptance, the bond was ineffectual, and no secondary evidence
could be admitted to establish the fact

The last proposition will be first considered.

The cor- Distinction

as
te proof of tie

rectness of it in a great measure depends upon the soundncts of corpo-rvt rations awl or
ness of the distinction taken between the acts of private Paveo perpersons and the acts of corporations. It ig admitted in the sons.
opinion of the Circuit Court, that the evidence offered
would, m common cases between private persons, have been
prsma facie evidence, to be submitted to the jury, as proof
that the bond was fully executed -and accepted. But it is
supposed that a different rule prevails in cases of corporations; that their acts must be established by positive record
proofs; and that no presumptions can be made in their favour, of corporate assent or adoption, from other circumstances, though in respect to individuals the same circumstances would be decisive. The doctrine, then, is main"tained from the nature of corporations, as distinguished
from natural persons; and frbm the supposed incapacity of
the former to do any act not evidenced by writing; and. if
done, to prove it, except by writing.
of the
Proof
Little light can be thrown on this subject by considera- acts
of aggretions drawn from corporations existing by the common law, gate corpora.
or dependent upon prescription. To corporations, how- o o a .
ever erected, there are said to be certain incidents attached,
witl out any express words or authority for this purpose;
such as the power to plead and be&,impleaded, to purchase
and. alien, to make a common seal, and to pass by-laws.,
In ancient times it was held, that corporations aggregate
could do nothing but by deed under their- common seal.
o Com. Digest, Franhise, F- 10. lfi

UA6ES IN THE SUPREME COURT

But this principle must always have been understood with
many qualifications; and seems inapplicable to acts and
votes passed by such corporations at corporate meetings.
It was probably in its origin applied to aggregate corporaDandridge. tions at the common law, and limited to such solemr pro-

1827.
v
Bank of the
U. S.
V.

ceedings as were usually evidenced under seal, and to be
done by those persons who had the custody of the common
seal, and had authority to bind the corporation thereby, as
their permanent official agents. Be this as it may, the rule
has been broken in upon in a vast variety of cases, in modern times, and cannot now, as a general proposition, be
supported. Mr. Justice Bayley, in tarperv. Charcsworth,
(4 Barnw. 4P Cresw. 575.) said, "A corporation can only
grant by deed; yet there are many things which a corporation has power to do otherwise than by deed. It may appoint a bailiff, and do other acts of a like nature." And it
is now firmly established, both in England and America,
that a corporation may be boudd by a promise, express or
implied, resulting from the acts of its authorized agent, although such authority be only by virtue of a corporate vote,
unaccompanied with the corporate seal.
may be the implied powers of aggregate
But whatever
corporaOf
.
tions created
corporations by the common law, and the modes by which
by statute.
those powers are to be carried into operation, corporations
created by statute must depend, both for their powers, and
the mode of exercising them, upon the true construction of
the statute itself. The doctrine of this Court, in Bead v.
The Providence InsuranceCompany, (2 Cranch. 127 ) on this
subject, is believed to be entirely correct. It was there
said by the Chief Justice, in delivering the opinion of the
Court, that "without ascribing to this body, which in its
corporate capacity is the mere creature of the act to which
it owes its existence, all the qualities and disabilities annexed
by the common law to ancient institutions of this sort, it
may correctly be said to be precisely what the incorporating
act has made it; to derive all its powers from that act, and
to be capable of exerting its faculties only in the manner
which that act athorizes." In that case, the act of incorporation prescribed the mode in which contracts should be
made. in order to bind the corporation, which was not coyn--

OF THE UNITED STATES.

69

,plied with, and the Court held, that there was no binding 1827.
contract, for the corporation could only act in the manner
Bank of the
prescribed by law; and when their agents do not clothe
U. S.
v.
their proceedings with those -olemnities which are required
by the incorporating act lo bind tue company, they cannot Dandridge.
be deemed as more than proposals or preparatory negotiations. We do not perceive any thing in this doctrine which
fairly admits of controversy. But this case has been pressed
upon us, at the present argument, as justif ing to its full extent the reasoning of the defendants on the present occasion. The question there was not, whether every corporate
act must be evidenced by writing; but whether certain acts,
which by law were to bind only when done and verified in a
particular manner, ought to bind, although those forms were
not adopted.
far the
We do not admit, as a general proposition, that the acts lawHowrequires
theactsof corof a corporation, although in al1other respects rightly
tohypotatious
to
writing.
transacted, are invalid, merely from the omission to have
them reduced to writing, unless the statute creating it
makes such writing indispensable as evidence, or to give
them an obligatory force. If the statute imposes such a
restriction, it must be obeyed; if it does not, then it remains
for those who assert the doctrine to establish it by the principles of the common law, and by decisive authoriti
-None such have, in our judgment, been produced.
Rbles of evi'
By the. general rules of evidence, presumptions are in- denceas to
tinually made in cases of private persons of acts even of presumptions
are the natural re-of
tho
most solemn nature,
th

otslm

aue re thentrlr-private
hntoeat

suit or necessary aeeompaniment of other circumstances. du-1s.
In.aid of thii salutary principle, the law'itself, for the purpose of strengthenifig the infirmity o*evidence, and up.
holding trasctions intimately: connected: with the public
peace, and the security of private property, indulges its own
presumptions. It presumes that every man, in his private
and official character, does his duty; until the contrary is
proved -a it will presume that all things are rightly done,
unless the circumstances of the case overturn this presump-a See Rex v. Hawkins, 10 East's Re p. M11. Powellv. Milbourne.
S ffi-or
mt,3. Haitwell v. loot, 19 3ons..Rep. 45

indivi-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827

tion, according to the maxim, omnma presumuntur rite at so-

,
:Baik of the
U.S.
v.
Dandridge-

rightly appointed, that entries found in public books have
been made by the proper officer; that, upon proof of title,

lemnitur esse aria, donee probetur zn contrarzum. Thus, it
will presume that a man acting in a public office has been

matters collateral to that title shall be deemed to have been
done; as, for instance, if a grnt or feoffment has been declared on, attornment will be intended, and that deeds and
gratits have been accepted, which are manifestly for the beThe books on evidence abound with
nefit of the party
instances of this kind, and many of them will be found
collected in Mr. Starkie's late valuable Treatise on Evidence. (3 Starkze's Evzd. part iv. 1234. 1241. 1248. and
note 1250, &c.)
The same pre- The same presumptions are, we think, applicable to corsumptiOns are
applicibie to porations. Persons acting publicly as officers of the corpothe acts of cor- ration, are to be presumed rightfully in office; acts done by
the corporation, which presuppose the existence of other
poraton.

acts to make them legally operative, are presumptive proofs
of the latter. Grants and proceedings beneficial to the
corporation are presumed to be accepted, and .'
0 -ght acts

on their part, which can be reasonably accounted for only
upon the supposition of such acceptance, are admitted as
presumptions of the fact. If officers of the corporation
openly exercise a power which presupposes a delegated
.authority for the purpose,. and other corjorate acts show
that the corporation must have contemplated the legal existence of such authority, the acts of such officers will be
deemed rightful, and the delegated authority will be presumed. If a person acts notoriously as cashier of a bank,
and is recognised by the directors, or by the corpordtiotr as
an existing officer, a regular appointment willbe presumed;
and his acts, as cashier, will bind the corporation, although
no written proof is or can,be adduced of his appointment.
In short, we think, that the acts of artificial persons afford
the same presumptions as the acts of natural persons.
Each affords presumptions, from acts done, of what must
have preceded them, as matters Qf right, or matters of
duty.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1827.
It may not be without use to advert to a few cases where
- ,
corporate acts have been the subject of presumptions. In '
of the
the first place, we may advert to the known fact, that a Bank
U.S.
v.
charter may be presumed to have been given to persons
who have long acted as a corporation, and assumed the ex- Dandridge.
ercise of the powers of a corporate body, whether of an Cases where
acts
ordinary or, extraordinary nature. This is the case in Corporate
have been the
respect to all corporations existing by presumption. Yet Sbjecet of prethe very case supposes that no written proof can be ad- umption.f.
duced of a charter, or of a vote of the corporators to accept the charter. Yet, both a charter and acceptance are
vital to the existence of the corporation. They are, however, presumed, not merely from the lapse of time, but
from the continued exercise of corporate powers, which
presuppose their existence. So, in relation to the question
of acceptance of a particular charter by an existing corporation, or by corporators already in the exercise of corporate
functions, the acts of the corporate officers are admissible
evidence from which the fact of acceptance may be inferred.
It is not indispensable to show a written instrument or vote
of acceptance on the corporation books. It may be inferred from other facts which demonstrate that it must have
been accepted. Upon this point it is not necessary to do
more than to refer to the general course of reasoning
-in The Ming v. Amery, (1 Term Rep. 595. S. C. 2
Tem Rep. 515.) as applied to the circumstance-* of that
case.' In Wood v. Tate, (5 Bos. 4 Pull. 246.) whigh was
replevin upon a distress made by the bailiff of the borough
of Morpeth, for rent, it appeared in evidence that the tenant went into possession under a lease void for not being
executed under the corporate seal, even if made by proper
officers ; yet the Court held, that though the lease was void,
the tenant was to be deemed tenant from year to year under
the corporation, and his payment of rent from time to time
to the officers of the corporation, (though not proved to be
by virtue of any written authority,) was sufficient proof of
tenancy under the corporation, on which the corporation
a See also Newliqg v. Francis, 3 Term
Palmer, Sall. 191.

ep. 189. Butler v.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827.

might distrain for the rent in arrear.

In Doe v. Woodman,

~ (8 E~ast's Rep. 2M8.) where certain premises had been de-

Bank
by the plaintiff to the corporation, as tenant from
U.v.of
S. the mised
year to year, at an annual rent, though it does
not appear in
Dandridge. what manner the demise had been accepted, except by the
payment of rent by the bailiff, as such; it seems to have been
taken for granted that it was proper evidence of a holding
by the corporation. In Magill v. Kauffman, (4 Serg..81
Raole, 317.) which was an ejectment for land claimed by a
Presbyterian congregation, before incorporation, under a
purchase by their trustees and after their incorporation
claimed in their right as a corporation, the Supreme Court
of Pennsylvania held, that evidence of the acts and declarations of the trustees and agents of the corporation, both
before and after the incorporation, while transacting the
business of the corporation, and also evidence by witnesses
of what passed at the meetings of the congregation.when
assembled on business, were a.dmissible to show their possession of the land, and the extent of their claim of its
boundaries. This must necessarily have proceeded upon
the ground that the acts of corporate agents, and even of
aggregate bodies corporate or unincorporated, might be establishe.d'independent of written minutes of their proceedings.
In respect to grants and deeds beneficial to a corporation, there seems to be 'o particular reason why their assent
to, and acceptance of the same, may not be inferred from
their acts, as well as in the case of individuals. Suppose a
deed poll granting lands to a corpo'ration, can it be necessary t3 iho* that there was an acceptance by the corporation by an assent under seal, if it be a corporation at the
common law; or by a written vote,-if the corporation may
signify its assent in that manner 9 Why may not its occupation and improverhent, and the demise of the land by its
agents, be justly admitted. by implication, to establish the
fact in favour and for the benefit of the corporation 9 Why
should the omission to record the assent, if actually given,
dfprive the corporation of the property which it gained in
virtue of such actual assent? The validity of such a grant
depends upon the accaptance, not upon the mode, by which

OF THE UNITED STATEt..

187.
It is no implied condition that the corporation shall perpetuate the evidnce of its assent in a particuthe
lar way. At least, if it be so, we think it is incumbent on BankU3.of
S.
V.
those who maintain the affirmative, to point out The authorities which sustain it. None such have been cited at the Dandridge.
IAis proved.

bar. On the contrary, there are highly respectable decisions, made upon great consideration, which assert a different doctrine. The case of the ProprietorsoJ the Canal
Bridge v. Gordon, (1 Pickering's Rep. 297.) is directly iii
point. There the object was to impose an onerous duty.
and to discharge or limit the right of toll of the plaintiffs:
and the Court held, that the corporation could bind itself,
and did in fact, in that case, bind itself to a surrender of its
valuable rights, by implications from corporate acts, without vote or deed. The learned Chief Justice of Massachusetts, on that occasion, in delivering the opmiQn of the
Court, said, "it is true that the acts, doings, and declarations of individual members of the corporation, unsanctioned by the body, are not binding upon it; but it is equally
true that inferences may be drawn from corporate acts,
tending to prove a contract or promise, as well as in the
case of an individual, and that a vote is not always necessary to establish such contract or promise. This has been
settled in several cases in this country and in England.
And afterwards, addressing himself to the facts of that case,
lie added, "Tfie question, then, is narrowed to this: Have
the proprietors of the canal bridge assented to this proposition, and acted under it? We find no vote to this effect,
but we do find that the cross bridge was suffered to unite
with theirg, pursuant to this propositton, and that for four
years all were suffered to pass without toll, who came from
Charlestown to Cambridge, or vie versa. Now, corporations can be bound by implication as well as individuals, as
has been before stated, and no acts could be stronger to
show an assent to a proposition, an agreement, or bargain,
than those which have been mentioned." Nor was this doctrine new at that time in that Court. It may be clearly inferred from the prior cases of the President, ,9/e.of the SaleA
Bank v. The Presdent,4rc.'ofthe GloucesterBank, (17 Mass.
Rep. 1.) and -Foster v. The10President, &c. oJ the Essex
VT,.

XTI."

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
Bank, (17 Mass. Rep. 479.) And it has been more recently
1827.
'- v 'confirmed in TheEpzscopalChariableSoctetyv.The Episcoal
of the Church mDedham, (I Pick. Rep. 372.) It may therefore be
BankU.S.
v.
considered as conclusivelysettied in Massachusetts.
The case
Dandridge. of The Bank of Columbia v. Patterson' ./Adm. in this Court,
(7 Cranch, 299.) did not call for any expression of opinion
upon the particular poiht now under consideration; but
the Court there held, that from the evidence in that case,
the jury might legally infer an express or an implied promise of the corporation. The Court there said, " the contracts were for the exclusive use and benefit of the corporation, and made by their agents for purposes authorized by
the charter. The corporation proceed, on the faith of those
contracts, to pay money, from time to time, to the intestate.
Although, then, an action might have lain against the committee personally, (for the contract was a personal contract by them, under their private seals,) upon their express
contract, yet, as the whole benefit resulted to the corporation, it seems to the Court, that from this evidence the jury
might legally infer that the corporation had adopted the
contracts of the committee, and bad voted to pay the whold
sum which should become due under the contracts, and that
Here, then,
the intestate had accepted their engagement.)
secondary evidence and presumptive proof was admitted in
a suit against the corporation to fix its responsibility. A
vote of the -corporation was presumed from other acts,
though there was no proof of such a vote being on record.
If the corporation had shown that no such vote had been
on record, would the presumption have been completely
repelled 9 'Would the omission of the corporation to record
its own doings, have prejudiced the rights of the party relying upon the good faith of an actual vote of the corporation? If such omission would not be fatal to the plaintiff
in suits against the corporation, (as in our opinion it would
not be,) it establishes the fact, that acts of the corporation,
not recorded, may be established by parol proofs, and, of
course, by presumptive proofs. In reason and justice, there
does not seem any solid ground why a corporation may not,
in case of the omission of its officers to preserve a written
record, give such proofs to support its rights, as would be

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1827.
admissible in suits against it to support adverse rights. The
.,
true question in such case would seem to be, not which '-v'
of- the
party was plaintiff or defendant, but whether the evidence BankU.S.
V.
was the best the nature of the case admitted.of, and left
nothing behind in the possession or control of the party, Dandridge.
higher than secondary evidence. The case of Dunn v. St.
.. ndrez's Church, (4 Johns. Rep. 118.) proceeded upon like
reasoning. There the plaintiffhad performed services as
clerk of the church, for the corporation, for which he had
received some payments. The records of the corporation,
contained entries of the payment of moneys, at several
times, to the plaintiffl, for his services; but no resolution was
entered on the minutes or records of the corporation, appointing the plaintiff clerk of the church. The Court held
such vote unnecessary to be shown, and that there was sufficient evidence of an implied promise of the corporation
to make the compensation. In the King v. Inhabitants of
Chspptn .Norton, (5 East's Rep. 240.) there was a demise
by a verbal agreement of the corporation, at a court leet,
of certain tolls belonging to the corporation. The Court
held, that the corporation could demise only under seal, and
that the agreement amounted to a mere license to colrect
the tolls, though it might be a ground to apply to a Court
of equity to enforce it as an equitable interest. The ground
there was not that the proceeding being verbal was a nullity,
but that it did not operate as a demise of the tenement at
law. It was conceded that the verbal agreement bound the
corporation as a license.
But the present question does not depend upon the point,
whetber the acts of a corporation may be proved otherwise
than by some written document. The reasoning upon it,
however, was very ably gone into at the bar, and as it furnishes very strong illustrations upon the point now in judgment, it could not be passed over with propriety.
In the present case, the acts of the corporation itself, done
at a corRorate meeting, are not in controversy. In corporations existing at the common law and by charter, there are
great diversities both of powers and organization. In some
corporations the whole powers rest in a select body, or in
select bodies, with powers to perpetuate their own corpo.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

rate existence, by filling up vacancies in their own body,
Sand such body or bodies constitute the corporation itself,
Bank of the and the meetings and acts done thereat are the meetings and
U. S
acts of the corporation itself. In short, they constitute the
v.
Dandridge. corporation, so far as it has life or organization exclusively.
1827.

Such are many of the boroughs and other municipal corporations in England, familiarly shown by the name of quasL
corporations. There are corporations of another sort,
where the aggregate body of corporators meet and assemble
to discharge corporate functions, sand have authority also to
perform certain acts and duties, by means of different agents,
sometimes designated in the statutes ,creating them, and
sometimes left to their own choice. Of this~nature are the
townships in New-England, where the inhabitants are corpo.
rators, and assemble to exercise corporate powers, and have
authority to appoint various officers to perform public duties, under the guidance and direction of the corporation:
Such are the selectmen for the ordinary municipal concerns;
overseers of the poor, school committees, assessors of taxes.
and various other functionaries. In these cases, the various
officers form different boards for the performance of different duties, subordinate to the corporation; their acts lawfully
done, bind the corporation; but they do not constitute the
corporation, nor are their meetings the meetings of the cor.
poration. In the latter cases, tl e records of the officers are
properly records of their own proceedings, and not of the
proceedings of the corporation itself.
'Nature of the It will be at once seen, upon an inspection of the charter
corpoatin, of creating the Bank of the United States, that it is not a corhot
the B..
poration of the former description. The charter, i the
t111U.S.
first section, declares, that a bank of the United States of
America shall be established, with a capital of 35,000,000 of
dollars, of which 7,000,000 shall be subscribed by the
United States, and the residue by individuals and corporalions. It proceeds to enact, in the 7th section, that the subscribers to the said Bank of the United States, their successors and assigns, shall be and hereby are created a corporation and body politic, by the name and style of "the
President, Directors and Company of the Bank of the United
States-" and by that name shall be capable in lawvto have.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1827.
purchase, receive, &c. lands, &c.,goods, chattels and efiters,
&c. to an amount not exceeding 55,000,000 of dollars, In- .
of the
cluding their capital stock; and the same to sell, grant, &c., BankU.S.
v.
to sue, and be sued, &c., to make, have, and use a common
seal, and to alter the same at pleasure, to ordain, and esta- Dandridge.
blish, and put in execution, such by-laws and ordinances as
they shall deem necessary and convenient for the government of the said corporation, and generally to do and
execute all and singular the acts, matters, and things, which
to them it shall or may appertain to do, subject to the other
provisions .of the act. It proceeds to enact, that for the
management of the affairs of the corporation, there shal
annually be chosen twenty-five directors by the stockholders, and the board of directors shall appoint a president of
the corporation. The directors have further authority given
to them to appoint such officers, clerks, and servants, as they
shall deem necessary for executing the business of the corporation, and to exercise such other powers and authorities
for the well governing and 6rdering of the officers of the
corporation, as shall be prescribed by the laws, regulations,
and ordinances of the same. The directors have further
authority given them to establish offices of discount and deposit, wheresoever they shall think fit, within the United
States, or the territories thereof, and to commit the management of the said offices, and of the business thereof respectively, to such persons, and under such regulations, at they
shall deem proper, not being contrary to law or'the constitution of the bank; and annually to choose the directors of
such offices. Among the rules, which the act prescribes as
fundamental articles of the constitution of the corporation,
are the following. "that not less than seven directors
shall constitute a board for the transaction of business, of
whom the president shall always be one, except in case of
sickness or necessary absence;" that sixty stockholders,
who are proprietors of 1000 shares in the stock, "shall have
power at any time to call a general meeting of the stockeach
1
holders,for purposes relative to the institution-, "that
cashier or treasurer, before he enters upon the duties of his
office, shall be regured to give bond, with two or more surelies. to the satisfactionof the directors, in a sum not less

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827.
than 50,000 dollars; with condition for his good behaviour,
v
and the faithful performance of his duties to the corporation;"
Bank of the that the total amount of the debts of the corporation shall
U. S.
not exceed a limited sum ; and if it does, the directors shall,
v.
Dandridge. in their natural and private capacities, be liable to any creditor therefor, with the exception that any director, who
shall have been absent when the excess was contracted or
created, and who shall have dissented -from the resolution
or act authorizing it, and shall give notice of the fact iii a
particular manner, shall be exonerated, that the secretary
of the treasury shall be furnished, from time to time, as often
as he may require, &c. with statements of the amount of the
capital stock, of debts due, of moneys deposited, of notes in
circulation, and of specie on hand; and shall have a right
to inspect such general accounts of the bank, as shall relate
to the said statement. The act further provides that acommittee of either house of Congress, appointed for that lurpose, shall have a right to inspect the books, and to examine
into the proceedings of the corporation, and to report
whether the provisions of the charter have been violated
or not.
Such is a summary of the most important provisions of
the act constituting the charter of the bank, and material to
the present cause. It is most manifest that the corporation
is altogether a distinct body from the directors, possessing
all the general powers and attributes of an aggregate corporation, and entitled to direct and superintend the management of its own property, and the government of the institution, and to enact by-laws for this purpose. So far as the
act delegates authority to the directors, the latter possess it,
and may exercise it, not as constituting the corporation itself,
but as its express statute agents to aCt in the ordinary business of the institution. The directors are created a board,
and not a corporate body. If the authority delegated to
them can only be exercised by them when assembled as a
board, with a proper quorum, and not by the separate-assent
of a majority of the whole body, (on which it is unnecessary here to express any opinion,) still it is clear, that
their meetings and acts are but the meetings and acts of
a board of agents acting ex. qicto, and not the meetings and

OF THE UNITED STATES.

79

acts of the corporation itself* The whole structure of the 1827.
charter, and the whole proceedings under it, as well as the \
of the
by-laws and regulations which have come under our review, Bank
U.S.
V.
demonstrate that this has been the uniform construction of
the corporation itself, and of the directors. Indeed, this is Dandridge.
believed to be so universally acted upon in all the cases respectinig banks, which have been judicially decided, that it
is not thought necessary to do more than express our opimon that such is the true interpretation of this charter.
It is not necessary to consider whether the sixth of the
fundamental articles of the constitution of the bank, which
directs that such cashier or treasurer shall be required to
give bond, &c. to the satisfaction of the directors, might
have applied, by its own force, to the cashiers of offices established as offices of discount and deposit. In the first
place, that point is not put in the pleadings; in the next
place, the directors are, by the charter, authorized to establish such offices, subject to such regulations as they shall
deem proper; and, in virtue of that authority, they have
prescribed regulations on this very subject in the 30th article
of the rules and regulations adopted by them for the government of such offices, which are set forth at large in the
transcript of the record. The fourth of these articles declares, that the directors of the Bank of the United States
shall appoint the cashiers of the offices of discount and deposit; the fifth declares the duties of the cashier, and,
among other things, his duty "to attend all meetings of the
board" of directors of the office, and "to keep a fair and
The sixteenth directs
regular record of its proceedings.i
that all notes and bills discounted shall be entered in a book
to be called the credit book, in such manner as to discover
to the board at one view, on each discount day, the amount
which any person is discounter, or is indebted to the office,
either as payer or endorser. The thirteenth directs, that
"the cashier of each office shall give bond to the President,
Directors and Company of the Bank of the United States,
with two or more approved securities, with a condition for
his good behaviourand faithful performance of his duties to
the corporation." By whom the approval is to be made,
whether by the directors of the parent bank. or by the di-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
rectors of the office, is not stated. If the directors of the
parent bank might, by the charter, have committed it to the
local directors, being found in a system of by-laws for their
regulation, it would seem a natural inference
that it was
Dandridge. their intention to commit it to the latter. When, as in the
fourth rule, they reserve the appointment of the cashier to
themselves, the language directly reserves it to "the directors of the Bank of the United States." If such authority
could not, by the charter, be delegated, then it must be
deemed to belong to the directors of the parent bank. It is
in the latter point of view that it has been argued at the
bar, and in that view it will be considered by this Court.
Assuming, then, that the directors of the parent bank
were, as a board, to approve of the bond, so far as it respects the securities, in what manner is that approval to be
evidencedQ Without question, the directors keep a record
of their proceedings as a board; and it appears by the rules
and regulations of the parent bank read at the bar, that the
cashier is bound "to attend all meetings of the board, and
to keep a fair ind regular record of its proceedings." If
he does not keep such a record, are all such proceedings
void, or is the bank at liberty to establish them by secondary
evidence? In the present case, (we repeat it,) the whole
argument has proceeded upon the ground as conceded, that
no such record exisfs of the approval of the present bond.
The charter of the bank does not, in terms, require that
such an approval shall be by writing, or entered of record.
It -does not, in terms, require that the proceediigs of the
directors shall generally be recorded, much less that all of
them shall be recorded. It seems to have left these matters
t9 the general discretion of the corporation, and of the directors ; and though it obviously contemplates that there
will be books kept by the corporation which will disclose
the general state of its affairs, it is not a just inference that
it meant that every official act of the directors should be
recorded, of whatever nature it might be. And if it had, it
would deserve consideration, whether such provisions ought
to be deemed conditions precedent. without which the *act
was void, or only directory to the officers in the,performance of their duty, the. omission of which might subject

1827.
-Bank
of the
U..S.
.-.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

themselves to responsibility, and the corporation itself to 1827.
the imputation of a violation of its charter. There are
of the
many cases where an act is prescribed by law to be done, Bank
U.S.
v.
unrcleft
if
and record made thereof, and, nevertheless,
corded, the act is valid. By the English marriage act, re- Dandridgc.
Distinctiou
gisters of marriages are required to be kept in public books
ai
between
minister,
the
and
parties
the
by
signed
Iact prescribed
in every parish, and
be
to
law
by
decided,
been
and attested by two witnesses. Yet, it has
done a[ a conprecediti,
marthat such an entry is not necessary to the validity of the
riage, an1 that an erroneous entry will not vitiate it.a So, dent, or oolv
direclory

where a magistrate omits to record an oath of office taken
who
. the

before him, parol evidence of the fact is admissible, though prt,.rm t
it is an omission of duty. b That some of the provisions of the charter and by-laws may well be deemed directory to the officers, and not conditions without which their
acts would be utterly void, will scarcely be disputed. What
are to be deemed such provisions must depend upon the
sound construction of the nature and object of each regulation, and of public convenience, and apparent legislative
intention. 'If a regulation be merely directory, then any
deviation from it, though it may subject the officers to responsibility both to the government and the stockholders,
cannot be taken advantage of by third persons.* In the
case of The Yank of the Nortliern Liberties v. Cresson,
(12 Serg. (. Rawle, 306.) the directors were required by
their own by-laws, to take a bond of the book-keeper with
sureties, andthey took a bond from sureties without joining the
principal. The Court held the bond valid, notwithstanding
the by-law, and took notice of the distinction between such
provisions of a statute as are essential to the validity of an
act, and such as are merely directory. Mr. Justice Duncan
said, that it was a matter between the directors and the
stockholders, and that the obligors, who had voluntarily entered into the stipulation, could not withdraw themselves
from their obligation.
a 1 Phillips'Ed. ch. 5. s. .. [S2.
b ]3assett v. Marshall, 9 Mass. Rep. 81-.
c United States v. Kirkpatrick, 9 Wheat. Rep. 70. United States
Van Zandt, 11 W0teat. Rep. 184.
II
VoL. XII.

to

officers
tc
are

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

But, waiving for the present this inquiry, we ask, upon
ground it can be maintained that the approval of the
Bank of the bond by the directors must be in writing 9 It is not required
U.S.
V.
by the terms of the charter, or the by-laws. In each of
Dandridge. them the language points to thefact of approval, and not to
1827.

'what

Approval of the cvidence by which it is to be established, if controvertbond bv eti. It is no where said the approval shall be in writing, or
the director.
need not be in Of record. The argument at the bar upon the necessity of'
its being in writing, must, therefore, depend for its support
writing,
the

upon the ground that it is a just inference of law from the
nature and objects of the statute, from the analogy of the
board of directors to a corporate body, from principles of
public convenience and necessity, or from the language of
authorities-which ought not to be departed from.
Upon the best consideration we can give the subject, we
do not think that the argument can be maintained under any
of these aspects.
If the directors had been a board constituted by an unincorporated company, or by a single person, for the like purposes, and with the like powers, it would scarcely occur to
any person that the acts of the board must, of necessity, be
reduced to writing, before they would bind their principal.
The agents of private persons are not usually in the habit
of keeping regular minutes of all their joint proceedings,
and hitherto there has been no adjudication, which requires
such a verification of their joint acts. Yet, innumerable
cases must have arisen, in which such a principle might have
been applied with success, if it had ever been supposed to
possess a legal existence. The acts of prvate and public
trustees, of jointagents for commercial purposes, of commissioners for private" objects, and of public boards, must
have presented many occasions for passing upon such a doctrine. The silence of the books under such circumstances,
.would form no inconsiderable answer to the argument, connected, as it must be, with the knowledge of the loose and
inartitdcal manner in which muh of the business of agencies is generally conducted. There may be, and undoubtedly there is, some convenience in the preservation of minutes of proceedings by agents; but their subsequent acts
are often iust as irresistible proof of the existence of prior

OF THEI UNITED STATES.
dependent acts and votes, as if minutes were produced. If 1827.
a board of directors were created to erect a bridge, or make
of the
a canal or turnpike, and they proceeded to do the service, Bank
U.S.
v.
and under their superintendence there were persons emlIoyed who executed the work, and the board proceeded to Dandridg9.
pay them therefor out of funds in their bands,' these facts of
public notoriety would be as irresistible evidence of the
due execution of their authority, and of.due contracts made,
and proceedings had by the board, as if the proceedings
were recorded in the most formal and regular manner. Can
there be a doubt that. in the cases put, many contracts are
so varied and rescinded, many acts done and assented to by
the board, which never are reduced tor formal votes, and declarations, and written proofs 2 We think we may safely
say, that the sense of the profession, and the course of private business, have never, hitherto, in respect to private
agencies and boards, recognised the existence of any rule
which required their acts and proceedings to be justified by
written votes.
What foundation is there for a different rule in relation to
agencies for corporations ? The acts of a single. duly authorized agent of a corporation, within the scope of his authority, bind the corporation, although he keeps no minutes
of such acts. They may be,'and they are, daily proved
aliunde. In what respects do the acts of a board of agents
differ from those of a single agent, in their operation as evidence 9 A board may accept a contract, or approve a security by vote, or by a tacit and implied assent. The vote
or assent may be more difficult of proof by parol evidence,
than if it were reduced to writing. But, surely, this is not
a sufficient reason for declaring, that the vote or assent is inoperative. If a board of directors agree to build a banking
house, and it is accordingly built, and paid for by their
cashier, with their assent, is the whole proceeding to be
deemed void, because, in the progress of the undertaking,
from accident, or negligence, the votes and Pe payments
have not been verified by regular minuteb " But, it is said,
that in the present case, the cashier is required to keep a
fair and regular record of the proceedings of the directors.
But if this is admitted, it does not establish the purpose (or'

CASES IN THE SUPREME COUR!
1827.

which it is ased. It is a by-law of the corporation, direcStory to its officers, enacted for its own security and benefit,
Bank of the and not for the purpose of restricting the acts of the direcU.S.
V.
tors. If the cashier should neglect to keep such records, or
)Wndridge. should omit any single vote. the by-law has not declared
that the vote shall be void, and the proceedings nugatory.
Suppose no such by-law had been passed, would not the
votes of the board have bound the corporation? If they
had discounted notes, taken mortgages, advanced money,
and bought stock by faith of 'viva voce, unrecorded votes,
and evidence of the existence of these acts and votes necessarily resulted from the other proceedings of the bank, could
it be the intention of the legislature that they should be utterly void? or of the stockholders, that any by-law should
operate a legal extinguishment of their title to the property ?
It seems to us difficult to imagine that such could be the
legislative or corporate intention. If, in ordinary cases.
such an intention could not be inferred in order to produce
a. very strict and inconvenient construction of the charter,
there is still less reason to apply it to the cases of approval
.of official bonds. These are taken exclusively for the security and benefit of the bank itself, and not of mere strangers. The approval is matter of discretion in the directors,
and that discretion once being exercised, it is of very little
consequence to the bank whether a written minute of the
vote be'made or not. All that the bank is interested in is,
that there shall be an approval, and it matters not whether
the fact is established by a direct record, or by acts of 'the
directors, which recognise its prior existence.
It has been supposed by the defendant's counsel, that the
case of Beattyt v. The Marne Insurance Company, (2 Johns.
Rep. 109.) is in point in his favour. Upon an examination
of the facts of that case, we think it. is othervise. In.that
case, the incorporating act provided that no losses should be
paid without the approbation of'at least four of the direc.
tors, with the president and his assistants, or a majority of
them. The attempt was to charge the company with a
total loss, upon a verbal aireement made by the prestdent
and assistaits,to.accept an abandonment, and pay a total
loss, at a meeting, when it did not appear that a single di-

OF THE UNITED STATES.
rector was present. The board therefore was not so con1827.
stituted as to bind the company. Mr. Justice Thompson,
in delivering the opinion of the Court, said," no part of the Ban. of the
case will warrant an inference that any of the directors
v.
were. present at the time of the alleged acceptance. When Dandridge.
the plaintiff's agent called to know the determination of
the company in relation to the payment of the loss, he says,
the secretary went into the room where the president and
assistants were conven d, and the answer returned was,
that the president and assistants had agreed to pay a total
loss; but no mention is made of any of the directors being
present. or assenting to it. When the testimony is positive
as to the persons by whom the acceptance is made, there is
no room left for presumption. If any of the directors were
present, so as to make the act binding on the company, the
plaintiff ought to have shown it affirmatively. We are of
opinion, therefore, that the acceptance, not having been
made by the agents constituted by the act of' incorporation,
cannot be binding on the company." The case, therefore,
so far as it Soes, is against the defendants. It carries an almost irresistible inference, that the Court did not think a
written vote of acceptance necessary, and that parol proof
would have been sufficient. No other authority has been
produced to sustain the argument, and it cannot be doubted,
that if any did exist, the researches of the counsel would
have brought itbefore the Court. We may therefore consider that 'it is a new doctrine, unsupported by prior cases,
and to be established now for the first time. We think that
the reasons of public convenience and individual safety and
.protection, would not be promoted by establishing it.
On the other hand, every case which has been adduced
to show that corporate acts need not always be reduced to
writing, but may be proved by presumptions, is, a fortior,
an authority against the argument. There are, however.
some cases, which confirm in a very clear manner the doctrine for which we contend, and which have not been yet
particularly adverted to. In the case of Ipthorp, Treasurer'
of the Commonwealth, v. .North, (14 Mass. Rep. 167.) a suit
was brought on the official bond of a coroner. By the laws
of Massachusetts, the bond was required to be a'pproved by

86

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1

the Court of Common Pleas of the county. It was del1827.
v
.vered into the Court of Common Pleas by the first Justice
Bank
of the thereof, and remained on its files for some time. No record
U.S.
v.
was ever made of its approval by the Court of Common
Dandridge. Pleas, and at the trial, contradictory evidence was offered,
of a presumptive nature, as to its approval and rejectuon
by that Court. Itwas held, that notwithstanding there was
no record of any approval, the bond might well, upon the
circumstances, be deemed to have been duly delivered and
approved. Chief Justice Parker, in delivering the opinion
of the Court, said, "A formal act, or certificate of approbation by the Court, is not made necessary by the statute ;"1
and after commenting on the terms of the statute, he added,
"it is not, then, reqdired expressly thatany record or certificate should be made, that the bond given was approved.
But if such bond is f ind upon the files, without any evidence accompdnying it that it has been rejected, and the
principal has proceeded to execute the dutics of his office,
the presumption is violent, if not conclusive, that the bond
was received by the Court as the security required by the
statute." In Foster v. The Essex Bank, (.17 0Mass. Rep.
479.) there was no clause in the charter respecting the receipt of special deposits, and no by:law had ever been made
by the corporation or the directors on the subject. But the
practice had long prevailed to receive such deposits, and
was known to the directors, though lo vote could be found
recognising them. The Court held the bank liable for the
safe keeping of such deposits, like a common bailee, without
hire, upon the ground that there was a plain adoption of
them, from the knowledge and acquiescence of the directors. The case of The Dedham Bank v. Chickenng, (3 Pick.
Rep. 335.) approaches still nearer the present case, and discussed the very point now in judgment. It was the case of
an official bond, given by the cashier of the bank, with sureties. The charter required that the cashier, before he entered upon the duties of his office, should give bond, with
two sureties, to the satisfaction of the directors. After the
cashier was elected, the directors passed a vote, that A. B.
and C. D. be accepted as sureties in a bond to be gmen by
the cashier for the faithfal discharge of the duties of,his

OF THE UNITED STATES.

87

1827.
office. The bond in question was dated before this vote;
but does not seem to have had but one surety. That cir- \
of the
cumstance, however, was not relied on at the argument; Bank
U.S.
v.
but the principal ground was, that there had been no approval of the bond by the board of directors. It was found Dandridge.
on their files, and the cashier had been frequently re-elected. Chief Justice Parkei, in delivering the judgment of
the Court, said, " We should have supposed that in the case
as well of a corporation as of an individual, a paper intended
for their benefit, and found on their files, would be considered as accepted by them;" and after alluding to the decision of the Circuit Court in this case, which required the
record of a vote of the directors, he added, " We.think,
however, that the case before us may be decided without
touching that principle, for, admitting it to be correct, we
are, nevertheless, of opinion, that the vote to accept the
sureties, and the bond being in possession of the President,
are a sufficient acceptance of the bond." It is impossible,
we think, to doubt, that the real opinion of the Court was,
that the acceptance might be proved without any record of
a vote, and that the very facts of the case brnught the point
of implied and presumptive acceptance from other acts of
the directors completely in judgment.
So far, then, as auihorities entitled to very great respect
and deference go, we are of opinion, that they are against
the reasoning assumed on behalf of the defendants.
To all the authorities cited at the bar on this point, the
counsel for the defendants has made one answer, which he

deems applicable to all of them. It is this, that where no
particular form for the expression of the corporate will is
prescribed by law, there it may be inferred from corporate
acts; but that where such a form is prescribed, it must be
followed. This distinction, he supposes, will reconcile all
the cases. The distinction, if admitted, will not aid the
argument. It may be, and, indeed, is conceded, that no
corporate actcan bevalid,if done differently from the manner
prescribed bylaw, as essential to its validity. If in the present case the statute had prescribed thatnothingbut a written
vote on record should be deemed an approval of the bond,
or that the cashier should not be deemed, for any purpose, in

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

i827.
\

-,-

office, until such approval, the consequence contended for
,-would have followed.

His acts would have been utterly

Bank of the void, and any unrecorded vote of approval nugatory.

But

U.S.

v.
the very point in controversy is, whether such written reDandridge. cord be necessar) by the charter or by-liws, not as a matter of convenience or discreet exercise of authority, but as
a sine qua non to the validity of the act. The cases which
have been commented on by the Court. do not deny the distinction. but proceed upon the ground, that unless positively repiired by law, a written vote is not to be deemed
indispensable. The Court then is called upon, not to administer a doctrine of strict, and settled, and technical law, but
to introduce a new rule into the law of evidence; and to
exclude presumptive evidence, not only of the acts of corporations, but of their unincorporated agents. If such a
rule be fit to be adopted, it must be upon the foundation of
some clear and unequivocal analogy of law, and public policy and -convenience. We are not prepared to admit that
it has any such foundation. On the contrary, we are persuaded that the introduction of the rule itself would be attended with serious public misthiefs, and shake many titles
and rights, which have been consummated in entire good
faith, and the confidence that no such written record was
necessary to their validity. We cannot therefore assent to
the doctrine decided in the Circuit Court on this point.
In respect to a collateral argument urged at the bar, upon
the point whether the terms of the charter and by-laws
would be complied with, without an express vote that the
bnnil - z to the satisfaclionof the diectors," or that the
gureties of the bond were "approved" by the directors, we
Lre of opinion, that in either case there need not be express
votes of approval and satisfaction. An acceptance of the
bond by the directors would, necessarily, in intendment of
law, include the approval of it, and be conclusive of it.
judgmcnt on The remaining point is as to the opinion of the Court dethe
hrstecop- livered in the first bill of exceptions. If that opinion meant

to state what it seems to import, that the cashier was not legally cashier, so as to bind the bank in its rights and interests
by his acts, if permitted to enter upon the duties of his office, before a satisfactory bond was given, we think it cannof

OF THE UNITED STATES.

be maintained. The cashier was duly appointed, and lie
1827.
was permitted to act in his office, under the express sanc- '.v
.
tion of the directors, for several years. If he had never Bank of. the
given any bond whatsoever during this period, yet his aqts
V.
within the scope of his authority would have bound the Dandridge,
bank. Notes signed by him would be lawful notes, moneys Not necessary
hat heofofficial
paid by him would be irrecoverable, records kept by him bond
the.
should
cashier
would be bank records. Indeed, it is conceded by the de- be
accepted
as
fendant's counsel, that the bank would, under such circum- satisfactory
stances, be bound by his acts in favour of third persons, act- by the directors, in orderto
ing upon the faith of his public character. The same prin- enable hun to
ca e a. enter legally
ciple, n our opinion, applies i favour, as against the bank. on the duties
If he could legally perform the duties of the office for any of is offIce.
purposes, he could for all. He was either an agent, capable
of binding the bank in all his -official acts, or those acts were
void as to third persons as well as the bank. If he was
held out as an authorized cashier, that character was equally
applicable to all who dealt with the bank, in transactions'beneficial as well as onerous to the bank. It seems to us,
that the charter and the by-laws must be considered in this
respect as directory to the board, and not as conditions precedent. The language is not more strong than that of the
laws which game under the consideration of this Court, in
,the United States v. Kirkpatrick, (9 Wheat. Rep. 720.) and
the UnitedStates v. Van Zandt, (11 Wheat. Rep. 184.)
Our view of this matter is in exact coincidence with that
entertained by the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, in the
Bank of the .Northern Libirties v. Cresson, (12 Serg. *
Rawle, 306.) The directors might have been responsible
for their neglect of duty; but it was a matter wholly between themselves and the stockholders, and between the
latter and the government, as a violation of the charter and
by-laws.
So far, indeed, as respects the sureties to the bond, they
may not be responsible for any breacrs,. of offieial'diy by
the cashier, before their obligation has been accepted:- Bdt
this is a very different consideration from that whiai respct
the legal effects of the acts-of the cashier himself" Uport the
interests and transactions of the bank itself.*
This is the substance of what we deem it netissry to
Vot. X.
12

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

say upon the present occasion. We do not go into the conof the admissibility of every part of the docuBank of the merts and testimony offered in evidence. Perhaps some of
1827.

Ssideration

U.S.

v.
them were in a shape not exactly fit to be admitted as formal
Dandridge. evidence, without farther verification and proofs. But much
of it was of a nature unexceptionable, as conducing to proof
of the issues joined, if any thing short of record proof were

admissible, as competent to establish the approval or acceptance of the bond. It is not-understood that the Circuit
Court entertained any doubt as to its general competency,

except upon the ground already stated. We are of opimon,
that the evidence was competent, in- point of law, to go to
the jury, notwithstanding there was no record of approval
of the bond, it being in its nature competent; its sufficiency
to establish the issues was matter of fact, the decision'of
which belonged to the jury, and upon which they ought to
have been allowed to pass their verdict
The judgment of the Circuit Court must be reversed, and
a mandate awarded, with directions to the Circuit Court to
award a vemrefactas de noro.
Mr. Chief Justice IARSHALL dissented. I should now,
as is my custom, when I have the misfortune to differ from
this Court, acquiesce silently in its opinion, did I not believe
that the judgment of the Circuit Court of Virginia gave general surprize to the profession, and was generally condemned. A full conviction that the commission of even
gross error, after a deliberate exercise of the judgment, is
more excusable than the rash and-hasty decision of an important question, without due consideration, -will, I trust,
constitute some apology for the time I consume in stating
the reasons and the imposing authorities which guided the
Circuit Court in the judgment that has been reversed.
The case before that Court depended on the question
whether the officil bond of the cashier, on which the suit
was brought, bound the defendants.
As preliminary to the investigation of this questions I
shall state some propositions belonging to it, which are supposed to be incontrovertible. All admit that delivery is essential to the validity of a deed, and that acceptance is essential to a complete delivery. If this be true, they must

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1827.
be proved in every case where they are put in issue by
the pleadings. This proof varies according to circumof the
stances. If there be subscribing iitnesses to the instru- BankU.S.
v.
ment, it can be proved only by them, if attainable. If unattainable, or if there be no subscribing witnesses, other Dandridge
proof may be admitted; but, in every case, a delivery and
acceptance must be legally proved.
If, in transactions between individuals, where a deea is
without a subscribing witness, proof of the signature of the
maker, accompanied with the facts that the instrument has
passed out of his hands, and is in the possession of the person for whose benefit it was made, be prma .fci e evidence
of its delivery, it is because deliVery by mere manual tradition, without witnesses, is good; and the assertion of title
under it is proof of acceptance, because that requires only
the assent of the mind, which assent is legally manifested by
asserting a claim to it. That a plaintiff may maintain his
action by this evidence, does not show that delivery and acceptance are unnecessary, or that proof of them can be dispensed with; but that, in ordinary cases, this evidence
amounts to such proof. If, however, a case should occur
in which the possession of the instrument by the party
claiming under it, does not afford legalprtmafacte evidence
of delivery and acceptance, because such party is incapable
of receiving and assenting to the instrument-in a form which
'can be legally proved or inferred from those facts, then such
other facts must be shown on the trial as will estnblish a
lawful delivery and acceptance.
I state these legal axioms, at the hazard of being thought
tedious, because they appear to me to have a direct bearing
on the case before the Court.
The plaintiff is a corporation aggregate ; a being created
by law; itself impersonal, though composed of many individuals. These individuals change at will ; and, even while
members of the corporation, can, in virtue of such mem.
bership, perform no corporate act, but are responsible in
their natural capacities, both while members of the corporation, and after they cease to be so, for every thing they
do, whether in the name of the corporation or otherwise.
The corporation being one.etitire impersonal entity, distinct

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
from the individuls who compose it, must be endowed with
1827.
mode of action peculiar to itself, which will always distin'a
egush its transactions from those of its members. This faank
v.

Dandridge.

culty must be exercised according to its own nature.

Can such a being speak, or act otherwise than in writing 9 Being destitute of the natural organs of man, being
distinct from all its members, can it commumcate its resolutions, or declare its will, without the aid of some adequate
substitute for those organs 9 If the answer to this question
must be in the negative, what is that substitute? I can imagme no other than writing. The will to be announced is
the aggregate will. The voice which utters it must be the
aggregate voice. Human organs belong only to individuals.
The words they utter are the words of individuals. These
individuals must speak collectively to speak corporately,
and must use a collective voice. They have no such voice,
and must communicate this collective will in some other
mode. That other mode, as it seems to me, must be by
writing.
A corporation will generally act by its agents; but those
agents have no self-existing power. It.must be created by
law, or communicated by the body itself. This can be done
only by writing.
If, then, corporations were novelties, and we were required now to devise the means by which they should
transact their affairs, or communicate their will, we should,
I think, from a consideration of their nature, of their capa.
cities and disabilities, be compelled to say, thatwhere other
means \verp ot providedby statute, such will must be expressed in writing.
But they are not novelti&s. They are institutions of
very ancient date; and the books abound, with cases, in
which their character, and their means of action, have been
thoroughly investigated. In Brook . Abrsdgement, (title
Corporation,) we find many cases, cited chiefly from the
Year Books, from which the general principle is to- be extracted, that a corporation aggregate can neither give nor
receive, nor do any thing of importance, without deed.
Lord Coke, in his commentary on Littleton, (66 b.) says,
;; But no corporation aggregate of many persons capable?'

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1827.
"can do'homage." " And the reason is, because homage
must be done in person, and a corporation aggregate of many
of the
Bank
U.S8.
cannot appear in person, for, albeit, the bodies natural,
.
the
yet
seen,
be
may
consists,
politique
whereupo the body
body politique or corporate, ithelf, cannot be seen, nor do Dandridge.
Maact, but by attorney." So, too, a corporation isIncapable of attormng otherwise than by deed, (6 Co. 386.)
or of surrendering a lease for years, (10 Co. 676.) or
of presenting a clerk to a living, (Br. Corp. 83.) or of appointing a person to seize forfeited goods, (1 Vent. 47.) or
agreeing to a disseisin to their use. (Br. Corp. 34.) These
incapacities are founded on the impersonal character of a
corporation. aggregate, and the principle must be equally
applicable to every act of a personal nature.
Sir William Blackstone, in his Comentanes, (v. 1. p.
475.) enumerates, among the incidents to a corporation, the
right "to have a common seal." "For," he adds, "a corporation being an invisible body, cannot manifest its intention
by any personal act or oral discourse. It therefore acts and
speaks only by a common seal. For though the particular
members may express their private consents to any acts, by
words, or signing their names, yet this does not bind the
corporation; it is the fixing of the seal, and that only,
'which unites the several assents of the individuals who tompose the community, and makes one joint assent of the
whole."
Though this general principle, that the assent of a corporation can appear only by its seal, has been in part overruled, yet it has been overruled so far only as respects the
seal. The corporate character remains what Blackstone
states it to be. The reasons he assigns for requiring their
seal as the evidence of their acts, are drawn from the nature of corporations, and must always exist. If the seal
may be exchanged for something else, that something must
yet be of the, same character, must be equally capable of
"uniting the several assents of the individuals who compose
the community, and of" making one joint assent of the
whole." The declaration, that a seal is indispensable, is
equally a declaration of the necessity of writing; for the
sole purpose of a seal is to give full faith and credit to the
writing to which it is appended. The seal in itself. not af-

CASES IN THE SUPREME .COURT
1827.

fixed to an instrument of writing, is nothing; is meant as
Snothing, and can operate nothing. The writing is the subof
the stance, and'the seal appropriates it to the corporation.
Bank
U.U.
S.
S.
Though the rule stated by Blackstone may not be
so uniDandridge. versal as his language indicates, it iscertaimy of extensive
application, and the exceptions prove its extent. Mr. Hargrave, in his notes on Co. Latt. (99.) says," In general, a
corporation aggregate cannot take or pass away any interest
in lands, or do any, actof importance, without deed, but there
are several exceptions to the rule." The question before
the Court depends very much on the extent of these exceptions, and on the manner in which this invisible impersonal
being must act and speak, when it may act and speak without using its seal.
It is stated in the old books, (Br. Corp. 49.) that a corporation may have a ploughman, butler, cook, &c. without retaining them by deed; and, in the same book, (50.) Wood
says, "small things need not be in writing, as to light a candle, make a fire, and turn cattle off the land." Fairfax said,
"A corporation cannot have a servant but by deed. Small
things are admissible on account of custom, and the trouble
of a deed in such cases, not by stnct law." Some subsequent cases show that officers may be appointed without
deed, but not that they may be appointed without writing. Every instrument under seal was designated as a
deed, and. all writings not under seal were considered as
acts by parol. Consequently, when the old books say a
thing may be done without deed, or by parol, nothing more
is intended than that itmay be done without a sealed instrument. It may still require to be in writing. In 2Bac..Abr.
13. it is said, " Aggregate corporations, consisting of a constant succession of various persons; can regularly do no.act
without writing; therefore,. gifts by and to them, must be
by deed. 7 In page 340, it is said, "if a corporation aggregate
disseise to the use of another, they are disseisors in their
natural capacity," "as a corporation they can regularly
do no act without writing."
In the case of The King v. Bigg, (Strange, 18.) the prisoner was convicted for erasing an endorsement on a bank
note. The indictment and verdict are set forth at large by

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1827.
Peere Williams, (v. 3. p. 419.) and it appears that the note
was signed by Joshua Adams, who was intrusted and em- %oo-va'
of the
ployed by the Bank of England to sign bank notes, but not Bank
U.S.
v.
under their common seal. It was contended by Peere Williams, inian able argument, that the appointment was not Dandridge.
valid, because not made under their common seal, and his
argument contains an enumeration of decisions previously
made, which go far in support of his proposition. The prisoner, however, was condemned, and, consequently, the appointment was held valid. But there is no reason to suppose that it was not made by writing. The verdict finds
"that he was intrusted and employed by the governor and
company of. the Bank of England, but not under their common seal." Consequently his employment was evidenced by
writing, if it was necessary; and the negative finding that it
was not under their common seal, strengthens the presumption that it was in writing. Peere Williams has reported
his argument, and would certainly have taken this objection,
had the tase afforded it. I consider the appointment of
Adams, then, as having been made in writing, though not
under seal.
Mr. Fonblanqu- says, (vol. 1. p. 296. note o,) " And the
agreement of the major part of the corporation, lbing entered in the corporation books, though not under the corporate seal, will be decreed in equity 1 The inference is
strong that it will not be decreed unless it be entered on the
corporation books. Consequently, unless it be so entered,
it is not an agreement, for every lawful agreement which is
in itself equitable, will be decreed in equity.
In the Mayor of Thetford's case, (I Salk. 192.) Lord
Holt said, that though a corporation cannot do an act in
pats without their common seal, they may dQ an act
on record, and that is the case with the city of London,
which makes an attorney in Court annually by warrant;
and the reason is, they are estopped by the record.
Upon the same principle, a return to a mandamus is
good, though not under the common seal. In these exceptions to the general rule, the substitute for the common seal
must be writing; and the exceptions are stated in terms
which exclude every idea that the act can be evidenced
,,therwls

96

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

Yarborough v. The Bank of England, (16 East, 6.) was
1827.
.
an action of trover and conversion, in which, after verdict
Bank -of the for the plaintiff,it was moved in arrest ofjudgment, that the
v.
action would not lie, because a corporation was incapable
of
Dandridge. committing a tort. The action was sustained, and Lord
Ellenborough, in delivering the opinion of the Court, said,
that a corporation can act only through the instrumentality
of others ; and wherever they can act, or order any act to
be done on their behalf, which, as by their common seal
they may do, they are liable to the consequences of such
acts. "A corporation cannot be aiding to a trespass, nor
give a warrant for a trespass, without writing." His -lordship. cited several old cases, showing the incompetency of a
corporation to act in important matters otherwise than by
deed, and added, "But many little things require no special command, as to chase cattle out of their land. Th se
things are incident to the appointment." Several cases Lre
putf, in which a corporation may be liable for a trespass; but
they. are all consistent with his first' propositiqn, that the lia1ility of a corporation must be founded on writing. "If," he
says, "the mayor and commonalty disseise me, and I release
to ,!0 or -200 of the commonalty, this will not save the corporatiorn auA.the.reasonis, because the disseisin is in their
corporate charat:ter, and the, release to individuals." So
in. trespass against the nmayor and comnonalty of York,
they cannot justify under a. right of the inhabitants to common, because the right in natural persons gave no right
to a corporation. Nor could the corporation give a warrant
without writing, to commit a trespass. The foundation. of
this action i, was the authority in writing giVen by the corporation 9 It stands on the same principle'with the action of
assumpsit made by an agent acting under a written power.
The idea that their seal was indispensable to the validity of
all corporate acts, which is laid down in such strong terms
by Blackstone, and by others, on whom he relied, probably
grew out of the state of the times in which it originated;
seals were then more frequent and better known than signatures. An instrument was much more certainly authenticated by the seal, than by the name of the maker. This
circumstance would bring seals into common use; and- as

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1827.
every corporation possessed a seal of extensive notoriety,
and any other mode of authenticating its acts would, in those
Bank of the
simple times, be attended with difficultied and perplexities,
v.
As
prevail.
should
rule
this
it is not matter of surprise that
writing has become more common, and seals are less dis- Dandridge.
tinguishable from each other, the good sense of mankind
gradually receives the- writing without the seal, in all the
less formal and less impbrtant transactions of the corporate
body. All the reasons derived from the corporate character, which have been assigned for requiring the seal, are satisfied by the writing without it.
The English cases on this subject ara very well summed
up by Mr. Kyd, (p. 259.) The result of the whole appears
to be, that in England the general rule is, that a corporation
acts and speaks by its common seal, at least so far as respects the appointment of officers, whose duties and powers
are important. In those transactions, where the use of the
seal would be unnecessary, and extremely inconvenient, it
is frequently dispensed with; but in all of them, I think.
writing is indispensable. In almost every case which I can
imagine, there ought'to be, and is, a record in the corporation books. With respect to the necessity of a seal, the
difference is certainly great between ancient and modern
times; and between corporations, whose principal transactions respected land, and those which are commercial in
their character. This distinction may, and ought to in.
fluence the use of the sqal, but not the use of writing.
The inability of a corporation aggregate to speak or act
otherwise than by writing, is constitutional, and must be
immutable, unless it be endowed by the legislature with
other qualities than belong to the corporate character.
The English cases, so far as I have had an opportunity of
examining them, concur in the principle, that a corporation
aggregate can act only by writing. A case from 4 Barnw. 4.
Cre-,. has been cited at the bar, and undoubtedly deserves
attention. I regret that it has.not been in my power to examine it. As far, however, as I could judge of it from the
statement made at the bar, I did not think that it bad over
turned what appears to me to be the settled lavii of Englmvd
I
VorL X1.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1 will now inquire whether the decisions of this Court
1827.
vary in principle from those of England.
x
Bank of the ".4kd ,.4mory v. The. Providence Insurance Company,
U.S.
(2 Cranch, 127.) was an action on a policy of insurance,
v.
Dandridge. which the defendants contended had been vacated by a subsequenb agreement; and the validity of this agreement constituted the sole question in the cause.
The plamntiffs had proposed terms for vacating the policy, and some communications had taken place through
Brown & Ives, their correspondents, which showed a misunderstanding between the parties, and that mutual propositions had been mistaken by the plaintiffs for an acceptance
of the terms they had proposed. This produced a letter
from the plaintiffs, of the 3d of September, 1800, which
'was understood by the defendants, and was considered
by the Court, as amounting to a renewal of propositions
for vacating the policy. The secretary of the company
delivered to Brown & Ives, on the 6th-of September, the
following note:
" Sept. 6th, 1800.
a
misunderstanding in
been
to
have
appears
"As there
of the comfirstpropositions
the business as it respects the
Head &
Messrs.
to
to
accede
are
willing
pany, the directors
the
meron
policy
the
settle
to
(viz.)
Amory's proposition,
and
intention
it
was'their
although
cent.,
chandise at 25 per
sqttlement.
in
the
included
policies
expectation to have both
Messrs. Head & Amory will please to forward the -policy,
and have it annulled immediately. Premium due 12-15
September.
" You will please tb govern yourself accordingly, and
we will attend to your wishes."
This paper was in the handwriting of the secretary, bui
without signature.
Testimony was given at the trial to show the usage of the
insurance companies, to consider an agreement to do an act
as equivalent to the performance of the act.
This paper was forwarded by Brown & Ives, on the 9th
of September, to the house of Head & Amory, in Boston.
and its receipt was acknowledged by their clerks on the
124h. thev being at thr. lime absent. On the 17th of Sep

OF THE UNITED STATES.
tember, the plaintiffi wrote to Brown & Ives, intorming 1827.
them that, previous to their seeing the letter of the 9th, intelligence was received of the capture of the vessel, which Ba.k of the
v.
would, of course, prevent any farther negotiation on the
Dandridge.
subject.
The Circuit Court determined that the agreement to vacate the policy was complete; and the jury found for the
defendants. The judgment was brought before this Cofirt,
and was reversed, because this informal paper did not
amount to an acceptance of the terms proposed by the
plaitiffi. The act incorporating the company, enacted,
"that policies of insurance, and other instruments, made
and signed by the president of the said company, or any
other officer thereof, according to the ordinances, bylaws," &c. "shall be good and effectual," &c. The Court
considered the company as the mere creature of the incorporating act, and as being capable of exerting its faculties
only in the manner which the act authorizes. This paper.
not being executed in the form prescribed by law, could not
be considered as the act of the company.
On the testimony of the witness concerning usage, the
Court observed; that "- if he was to be understood as stating
that an assent to the formation or dissolution of a policy,
if manifested according to the forms required by law, is
as binding as the performance of the act agreed to be done,
"itis probable that the practice he alludes to is correct.
But if he means to say that this assent may be manifested
by parol, the practice cannot receive the sanction of thia
Court. It would be to dispense with the formalities required by law for valuable purposes, and to enable these
artificial bodies to act and to contract, in a manner essentially different from that prescribed for them by thb legislature." " An individual," the Court added, "has an original capacity to contract and bind himself in such manner as he
pleases." "He who acts by another, acts by himself. He who
authorizes another to make a writing for him, makes it hunself; but with these bodies, which have only a legal existence.
itis otherwise. 'Theact ofincorporation is. to them, an enabling act. It gives them all thn pewer i-Yv posse.r. It

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827.
Bank of the
U.S.
v.
Dandridge.

enables them to contract; and when it prescribes to them
a mode of contracting, they must observe that mode, or the
instrument no more creates a contract than if the body had
ilever been incorporated."
The Court considered the note of the 6th of September
Cc as a mere informal paper, which might perhaps amount to
notice of an act, if such act was really performed, but which
is -not in itself an act of any legal obligation on the company. That if the proposition contained in the letter of
the 3d of September, had been regularly accepted, this
note might possibly have been considered as notice of that
acceptance, but is not in itself an acceptance."
I have gone the more fully into this case, because, both
the decision itself, and the reasoning by which it is supported, appear to me to apply throughout to the case now before
the Court.
This subject came on to be again considered in The Bank
of Columbza v. Patterson's.(dlmiistrators,(7 Cranch, 299.)
That was an action of assumpsit brought by Patterson's administrators for work and labour done by their intestate for
writing bethe bank. It was founded on an agreement ire
twepn Patterson and "a duly authorized committee of the
directors of the bank," in their own names. Judgmentwas
given in favour of the administrators, upon which the cause
was brought by a writ of error into'this Court; and, among
other objections to the *proceedingsbelow, it was contended,
that a corporation aggfegate could not promise otherwise
than under its seal.
In considering this objection, the Court did not controvert the ancient rule. But this rule, if it ever*existed
to thie extent clamed by the plaintifls in error, had been
relaxed; and it seems at length to have been established,,thqt though corporations could not contract directly,
except under their corporate seal, yet they might, by mere
vote, or other corporate act, not under their corporate
seal, appoint an agent, whose acts and contracts, within the
scope of his authority, would be binding on the corporation.
It being conceded that the committee were authorized to
make agreements, there could be no dQubt that a contract
made bv them in the naroe of the corporation, would be

OF THE UNITED STATES.
Jb7.
binding qn the corporation. But as this promise is made in
their own names, if the principle stopped here, the remedy
Bank of the
would be only against the committee.
U.S.
V.
The Court proceeds to consider it as a sound rule of law,
that wherever a corporatioit is acting within the scope of Dandridge.
the legitimate purposes of its institution, all parol contracts
made by its authorized agents are express promises of the
corporation.
In applying this rule of law to the case then under consideration, the Court reviewed the evidence from which the
jury might legally infer, " that the corporation had adopted
the contracts of the committee, and had voted to pay the
whole sum which should become due under.the contracts,
and that the plaintifffs " intestate had accepted the engagement."
The Bank o; Columba v. Patferson's Admunstrators, differed from the case of the P'orndence Insurance Company
v. Head 4' Amory, in two essential circumstances. The
contract which was sustained against the bank was made
through the instrumentality of a legally constituted agent;
that which the insurance company attempted to setup, purported to be a direct contract between the company and
the plaintiffs in the cause. In the case of The Bank of
Columbza, the Court said, " At length it seems to have been
established, that though they (corporations) could not contract directly, except under their corporate seal, yet they
might, by mere vote, or other corporate act, not under their
corporate seal, appoint an agent, whose acts and contracts,

within the scope of his authority, would be binding on the
corporation."
The obligation on which this suit was instituted, if it be
an obligation, purports to be a direct contract between the
bank and the individuals who signed the instrument; It is
not alleged thiat any agent was authorized to act f6r the
bank.
Another very essential difference between the two cases
cited from Crcanh is this: In that of the Proamdence Insurance Company, the corporation attempted to set up an
agreement, whikh, if it existed, was in its own possession.
It claimdd to imply that an act had been performed by it-

iUASES IN THE SUPREME COURtL
1827.

self, the evidence of which was in its own possession, and
be produced. The Court disallowed this implicaBank of the tion.
U.S.
In the case of"The Bank of Columbur, as in that of the
V.
Dandridge. insurance company, the act to be implied was an act performed by the corporation in its own office, without witnesses, the evidence of which remained in its own possession; but it was set up against, not by the corporation. The
Court was not of opinion that the suit could be maintained
without the existence of this act. No such idea is indicated. On the contrary, the language of the opinion shows
very clearly that the act was necessary. If, in order to
charge the bank, it was necessary that the corporation
should have "adopted the contracts of the committee,"
and should have" voted to pay the wbole sum which should
become due under the contracts." The Court enumerates
circumstances which were deemed sufficient to justify a jury
in implying against the corporation that the bank had performed these acts.
In the case at bar, the suit is brought by the corporation,
and the corporation asks the Court to imply that it has performed those acts which are necessary to the validity of the
bond on which it sues, although the evidence of its having
performed them is in its own possession.
Fleckner v. The Bank of the United States, (8 Wheat. Rep.
338.) was a writ of error to a judgment given by the Court
of the United States for the District of Louisiana, in favour
of the bank, in a suit instituted against Fleckner on a note
given by him, and endorsed to the Bank of the United
States by the President, Directors and Company of the
Planters' Bank of New-Orleans, through their cashier, astheir agent. One of the errors alleged in the proceedings
of the Court below was, that the cashier of the Planters'
Bank had no authority to make the transfer. The authority
was given by a vote of the board of directors to the president and cashier, and the act itself was afterwards affirmed
by an instrument of writing under the. corporate seal. It
-was contended that the original vote,, empowering the president and cashier to perform the act, ought to have been a
power under the corporateseal. In noticing this objection,
Smight

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1827.
the Court said, "Whatever may be the original correctness
the
by
of this doctrine as applied to corporations existing
BankUoft
common law, in respect even to which it has been certainly
to
broken in upon in modern times, it has no application
,
corporations created by statute whose charters contemplate Dandndge.
the business of the corporation to be transacted exclusively
by a special body or board of directors. And the acts of
such body or board, evidenced by a written vote, are as
completely binding upon the corporation. and as complete
authority to their agents, as the most solemn acts under the
h
"
corporate seal.
The Court then proceeded, in a very elaborate and well
digested opinion, to maintain that the endorsement was
with- we official duty of the cashier, that it was within the
original power given to the president and cashier, and that,
were this otherwise, it was sanctioned by the concluding act
under the corporate seal. The whole of this case, as of
the two preceding cases, turns upon the idea, that a writing,
in due form, on the part of the corporation, is indispensable
to the validity of its contracts.
According to the decisions of the Courts of England,
then, and of this Court, a corporation, unless it be in matters to which the maxim d mmimis non curat lex applies,
can act or speak, and, of course, contract, only by writing.
This principle, which seems to be an essential ingredient of
its very being, has been maintained by all the judges who
have ever discussed the subject. Upon this principle, and
the authority of these cases, I have supposed that a corpo.
iation cannot receive and assent to a deed of any descrip.
tion, unless this assent be expressed regularly in writing.
-It ought to be entered on the books of the corporation.
The counsel for the plaintiffs in error insist, that the
proof offered in the Circuit Court was sufficient to establish
the full execution of the bond, and they support this proposition upon principle, upon convenience, upon usage, and
upon the authority of cases decided in the different States of
the Union.
It is, we are told, a general rule, that acceptance by a
corporation is a fact which may be proved before a jury,
and the acceptance of a new charter is mentioned to illusrule.
trate the
,.

104

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

Without question, acceptance is a fact, and is to be proved
1827.
before a jury; but the inquiry is, by what evidence may it
'o-%"
9
I have supposed that it must be proved by tesBak
U.of
S.the be proved
timony which shows that the corporation has acted in the
v.
Dandndge. form in which alone it is capable of acting; that it has expressed its acceptance in the mode in which such a being is
capable of expressing it. I receive readily the case put of
the acceptance of a new charter as an apt illustration of the
principle we are investigating, and should be surprised, indeed, if a new charter were to be accepted without a vote
of acceptance entered upon the record. The case cited
from 1 Term Rep. 575. does not appear to me to sanction
the doctrine it is adduced to support.
We are told, too, that there was never a time when a corporation might not take by a deed poll. But, if this be admitted, I cannot perceive its influence on the case. A deed
poll is in writing, and there is the same necessity that its
acceptance should be evidenced b writing as if it were an:
indenture. The general assertion which we find in all
the books, that a corporation can take only by deed, that is,
as I- understand it, that the act of 'taking must be by deed,
applies as well to conveyances by deed poll, as by indenture.
We have been also retrred to a time anterior to writing,
and are asked how corporations then acquired property?
We have no knowledge of such a time. Since Europe
was. subdued and civilized by the arms and literature of
Rome, the science of writing, though rare, has never been
entirely lost. So much of it as remained was -found most
generally in corporate bodies. If the corporation was not
entirely ecclesiastical, which in early times was most frequent, yet tliere can be little reason to doubt their having,
among themselves, or being able to command, a scribe. Be
this as itimay, the earliest information we have on the sub.
ject tells us that corporations aggregate could only take or
grant by deed,. under their corporate seal. Even when
land passed from man to man by livery, a corporationeould.
not so grant or take. Livery could not be made by,-or to,
a corporation aggregate, because they are personal act, and
itis an impersonal being, These acts were to be performed

O9 TRE UNIkTED .STATES.

105

1827.
tJrqugh Ole agpacy Qf an individual having a ppwer to Wer.
orporae
seal.
fobpp#iem under te
of.'ott
'We are also told, that the title of the bank to the ground Bank
%8.
Y.
mor;KOe taken
purcbased for 4-bankmg house, pidt
by the Da.ai*e.
in ,ard
for the secrrity. of its Obfs, ,w9 be lpt.
prickp,e which J have 'enmeavourd to minam; th it is
pwbable inot .4 single gonveyance will stand the test by
wjnch tblAdendant' in errgx proposes to .try its validity,
and4Wta.$!e tsage is, Ap9ceive aied depo ithcin among the
papers of :the sqit4ttukoA without.taktqg, aquiqe of them
onit-srecords.
1[can .scrcely suppose it possible that so loose a pracA.cq
can lWe prevailed. I can scarcely .suppq~e it possift,
that, on points .of suclh vital importance, and of such rare.
occurrence, the plain requisites of law.can have been so
entirely disregarded. Deeds of mqtgage, as well as of
grounpd for necessary buildings, are conveyances of lads,
and 1f anyone legal proposition is JWid down without a smgle eyception, it is this, that a cogorton~aggregate canuot
.thairydeed. Tome it would appear
take lands oer
very incautiods to take such conveyances othervise than as
is prescribed in the books that is, jy appqinting an attorney
under the corporate seat tp receive them; but, however
this may be, I can scarcely suppose it po~sible, that an act
so easily performed as to enter their asseAt in their own
books, should be habitually neglected. That the current
business of the bnk should sometimes wa t the requisite
fogms, night be excused, but that the rome failure should
take place in single transactions, which .eldom take place,
and are yet of great importance, oeems.to me to be scarcely
possible. I should not be inclinedto act Judicially on the
presumption that the fact exists. If it does, the mischief
my be corrected by correcting the practiqe.
The counsel for the plaintiff rely.very mpqh on tie cases
which have been decided'in the States of Pennsylvania,
New-York, and Massachusetts.
In the case mentioned at the bpr, from Pennsylvania, a
demurrer was fil to a plea in bar of the action on a cashier's
bond, which brought up the very question in coosideration
before this Court. The argument was opened-Py thecoua.
14
VoL. XIL

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
sel for the plaintiff, but he stopped in the midst of it, andhis demurrer without submitting the point to. thi
Court.
of
the
Bank
13. lSo
1827.

'withdrew

.S

The cases in New-York have not, I thnk, gone farther

Dandridge. than The Bank of Columbia v Patterson's Admmitstrators.
Those of Massachusetts have, I admit, gone the full length
for which the plaintifft contend, and the point is probably
settled in that State. It would be presumptuous in me to
place my understanding of those decisions in opposition to
that of professional gentlemen from that State, but to me it
seems, that even there the doctrine has not beevuniformly
maintained. Bigelo 's Digest of Massachusetts cases- contains this passage : "Aggregate corporations cannot make a
parol contract, unless by the intervention of some agent or
attorney-duly authorized by a corporate vote to contract on their part, because there is no other way in whch they can
express their assent." He cites 7 Mass. Rep,. 102. in which
Chief Justice Parsons said, "-We cannot admit that a corporation can make a parol contract unless by the intervention of. some agent or attorney duly authorized to.contract
on theiripart."
In the Essex Turnpike Company v. Collins, (8 Mass. Rep.
292.) the Court said, "Aggregate corporations cannot contract-without vote, because there is no other way in which
they can express their assent.7
In the case of Hayden v. The .4iddlesex Tnrnpi6keCorpq.
ration, (10 Mass. Rep. 397.)- the work for which- the action
was brought was performed on the road. The committee
appointed to contract fori and uperintend it, was frequently
prdent while it *as -going-on, and diiected the workmen.
Other directors were also present, and one of them -swore
that he supposed the work to be going on by order -of the
directors, But the tiontract was not in exact conformity
with the written aithority undet-whichthe committeeacted.
A verdict takentor the plaiptil, subject to the opion of
the Court, was set aside, and the Court said, "No individu.
/
corporation in. their agregate
al member can represent the
capacity, but in consequence of their consent. The requisite evidence of this/at commonlaw, was'a deed under the
"a6I of the corporatioff. Aggregate corvorations,.establish-

OF THE UNITED STA TES.

ed by statute, are pot restricted. to that formality.

They

1827.

have power given them to order their affairi, and to appoint
of dhe
arid employ agents by votes, or in such other manner as the Bank
U. S.
v.
corporation may by their by-laws appoint.P Again. "Nor
can a parol declaration, made to the corporators at a corpo- Dandrdg.
rate meeting, by any individual, amount to a contract between
such individual'and the corporation."
In The Proprietors of the Canal Brdge v. Gordon,
(1 Pick. Rep. 97.) the Court decided, that a corporation
could be boun&tithout a vote, by implication from corpo,
rate acts. This, however, was in -a suit brought against a
corporation, and attended with circumstances extremely
well calculated. to strengthen every presumption against
them. The corporation might have passed the vote, though
it was not in the power of the plaintiff to produce it, and
their acts afforded the strongest probability in'favour of the
implication that they had passed it. I should not cosider
this case as conclusive evidence that the same Court would
,have drawn th6 same inference from the same circumstances, in a case in which the corporation was piMAiT,
But, in the case of The Inhabitants of the First Parish i4
Sutton v. Cole, the corporation was plaintiff, and the validity
of an entry into land. was one of the points made in the
cause. The corporation had appointed two agents for the
purpose, but the entry was made by one only. This enfry
was held to'be male. not in pursuance of ihb authority, but
it was: also held, that the action brought by the corporation
was a ratification of. the entry. This I admit to be.a decision expressly in point. But, thiking it a case in opposi.tion to the whole course of decisions in England, as well as
in this Court, and not supported by decisions in other
States)'or by a long course of decisions even in the State of
M1sachusetts, I should not, perhaps, hlghly respectable as
it undoubtstly is, and as k certainly thiuk it, have felt
myself warranted in )ielding to it, had it even been knowa
to me.
It~has been contended, that the,act of Congress incorporating the bank, Jbes not, in.tems, require that it shall keep
a record of its proceedins; 'and..& tbil omminion, it has

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
been inferred, that a record is unnecessary. I cannot assent
1827.
the correctness of this inference.
.to
Bank of the When .a being is created without the organs of speech,
uL S.
and endowed only with. the faculty of communicating its
v.
tlandndge. will by wilting, we need not look in the laws given by its
creator, for a prohibition to speak, or a mandate to write.
These are organic laws which it is compelled tb observe.
If we find, in the act of its creation, an enumeration of duties and powers which are to be performed and exercised by
writing, it is evidence that the creator considered it as certain that the creature would write, and that the evidence of
its -conformity to the will of the creator would be found in
writing. It is equivalent to a'declaration that it shall act by
writing.
Let the charter be examined, with this principle in our
minds.
The 8th gectiozi empowers the stockholders to choose directors for the management of their aftairs, but does not require that the election shall be evidenced by writing. Is it
to be believed, that Congr'ess could have intendea that an
act, on, which all the operations of the corporation depended, which might be controverted ij every action it
-should institute, might rest upon the uncertain, and, perhaps,
contradictory recollection of the individuals who were present.
The fairness 'of an election may be contested; the mode
of voting is prescribed by law. 'Can it be that Congress
supposed no provision was made which secured written testimony, by which such-contests niight be tried 9
The directors are to elect one of their body as president;
is no record to be kept of this election? Can we presume
so much carelessness-in Congress, as to suppose it possible
that matters of such consequence should be left to the loose
proof which the memory of individuals might furnish? The
act prescribes the notice which shall be given of the time
and place of holding the election; and adds, "it shall be
lawful for such election to be then and there made." The
legality of the election depends on time and place. Did
-Congress mean that these facts should reo:on inomory.?
The 10th section empowers the directors, for the time oe&

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1897.
and to exercise such other powers for the well governing of 4
tho
the officers of the corporation, as shall be prescribed by its Bk. of
V.
laws. May all these acts be found only in the frail memory
Dandridge.
of individuals?
JThe 4th rule of'the fundamental articles provides, that
not less than seven directors, of whom the president, or
some person deputed by him, shall be one, shall constitute
a board for the transaction of business; but there is no
clause in the charter requirng a board. Can it be pretended, that not less than seven directors may make a board,
and yet, that the'directors may act without being assembled
as a board?. Congress has not thought it necessary to forbid their acting otherwise than as a board,lbecause the whole
law of co -porations forbids it.
In the evenit of making unlawful loans, the directors ale
made personally responsible, but those are exempted who
were. absent, or who dissented from the resolution or act
whereby the same was so contracted or created.
Noclause in the charter dir&cIXthat loans shall be created
only. by writing. The bond of the debtor may be said to be
sufficient. Yet this clause is obviously drawn in the idea,
that all the proceedings on the subject would necessarily be
in writing, The absentees and dissentients are excused.
How is this absence or dissent to be proved? Is it to depend on vague and uncertain memory 9
The'same observations apply to the limitations and restrictions which'are found in the 9th and 10th rules of the
fundamental articles.
The 13th rule declares, that semi-annual dividends shall
be lmade, but does not direct that they shall be declared in
writing. May the bank so manage its affairs, that no trace
of these dividends shall be found on its books?
The 16th rule declares, that no stockholder, unless he be
a citizen of the United States, shall vote mn. the choice of
directors, but does not direct that written lists shall be taken.
May they be dispensed with 9 Is the question who has voted to depend on recollection solely 9
The .23d section subjects the books of the corporation to
the inspection of a committee of either house of Congress.

,ing to appoint officers, and to allow them a compensation;

CASES IN-THE SUPREME COURT

110

g27., But there is no clause in the charter which directs the corv
poration to keep any bookd. May this be set up as an exOink -of the cusef'r not opening books containing their tiansadions for
the inspection of acommittee of Congress?
V.
How are we to account for all these strange omissions 9
UIW9de
,trange and' inaccountable they would .certainly be, on any
dther hypqthesis, than that the law of its being, required that
jt should speak and act by writing.. Aware of this, Congress
did -not deem it necessary to enjoin upou it, that it should
act in the only mode in which its organs enabled it to act,
and that it should abstain from what its organs did not enable

it to do.
It may be said, that although certain things ouglit to appear in writing, it is not necessary that all the transactions of
abafik should so appear; and the assent of the'directors to
the bonds given by their cashiers, need not:appear. Such

grave acts or.omissions as may justify the suing out a scsre.
factas, to vacate the charter, ought to be evidenced by their
rocords.; but such unimportant acts. as taking bonds from
'theirotAcers, need-not appear. These nay be interred.
I donot concur in this proposition. I neither admit the
diatinction which has. been alleged, nor do I admit 'that
the bond of a cashier :is to .be classed with unimportant
transactions'. Congress has not prescrib'ed the intrinsic importance which shall enitle any transaction ofa bank to a
place on its record, but has legislated on the iaea that a record of its proceedings will be kept. And if such a dijitinctibon could 'be found, the bonds: of officers, intrusted
with all the monfey of the bank, are am6zg.lhe most interesting of its duties. Congress has manifeited this opinion,
by enacting, that," Each cashier or 'treasurer, before. he
.enters upon the diutits of his office, shall be required to.give
bond, with two or.more sureties, to the satisfaction of'the.
directors, in a sum not less than 50,000 dollars, with a coadition for his good behaviour, and the .fithful performance
of 'his duties to the corporation."
COngress, then, considered the bon'ds to' be given-by the
cashiers as a subject of real'importance; and Congress wasright in this opinion.. It require .very little knowledge of
the intoner of banks, to know that the interests of thiestock-

OF TE UNITED STATES.

111

1827.
holders are committed, to a very great extent, to these and
other officers. It was, and ought to have been, the ihtenof the
tion of Congress to secure the government, which took a Bank
U.S8.
V.
deep interest in this institution, and to secure individuals,
who embarked their fortunes in it, on the faith of govern- Dandridge.
ment, as far as possible, from the id1-practices of its officers,
One of the means einployc3 for this purpore is.'the bond required from*64caslber. Are the directors at liberty to disquisition? I think they are not.
.pense withiafit
2
Shoufteodnittee of Congress, on inspecting the books
of the eolywaton, find that cashiers were acting without
bond's, WiditrMt uch gross negligence, such utter disregard of the" piitive mandate of the law, furnish serious
cause for a sce.factas to vacate the cnarter 9
It has been urged, that the rule for which the defendants
contend, would break in upon all the usages of the bank, invalidate all the notes they have discounted, and destroy their
liability for deposits.
I do not think so. I do not profess to understand banking operations; but I think the counsel for the defendants
has plainly shown, that not a single note is discounted, without evidence, in writing, on the note itself, or un tlw books
of the bank, or on both. It is admitted, thattheoffcial acts
.of the officers of the bank are binding, tvA, of course, written memorandums made by such offcer, it. pursuance of
"orders of the board'; vwnether on the note'itself, or in a book,
is a corporate act, is written evidence of such-order of the
board of dirett 'Aag the wrltingimporta. The counsel for
the defendant ha, I ihiik,'shown from '" the rules and regulations -for conduMing the business of the Bank of the
United States,-1 a, wv~l -as from the practice under those
rules, that air fr-&vactious of that character are., as they
He has shown also, conclusively,
ought to be, in wl'tir
is made both for general and
full
Vrovision
as I think, that
special deposits, and-, in my judgment, every difficulty of
this description is renio'ved by the 23d rule, which shows
that a regular record is, as it ought to be, kept of dll the
proceedings of the board of directors. So much of that
rule as applies to this subject is in these words,
" The proceedings of the board of directors, when con-

112

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

ductibg their business as a deliberative body, shall be govened by the following articles.
i' 1st. When the president takes the chair, the members
NAnkU.. of
S.
v;
Obal take theirseats.
Dandridge. "2d. The minutes ofthe preceding meeting shall be read
before 'the board proceeds to anj other business; and no
deb*te shall be admitted, nor qjestion taen at such reading, except as to errors and inaccuracm& 'i33 state of the
bank shall then e .read, and the discountg settled!'
The board, then, does act as a deliberativehody Od does
keep a mniute of its proceedings, which are ft he read over
andcorrected. -On.what subject does the bo-rd deliberate,
if ,not on the measures which are to be takenfor the security of its debts, and jn the sufficiency of the sureties in the
bon&gmen, by the officers who have the management of its
funds ? Most especially is it bound to deliberate on the
bonds to be given by the cashiers of the bank. This is a
subject on which the directors are particularly commanded
toexercise their judgment by one of the fundamentd aricles of the constitution.of.the corporation. That article re-quires, that "each cashier or treasurer, before he entersu on
the'duties if his office, shall be requiredto give bond, with two
the sum
or more sureties, to the-satisfacion of thedirectors, -in
not
the
suffio
&c.
Is
a
condition,"
dollar4
with
of 6oooo
ciency'of this bond, fhen, most especially a subject for deliberation? 'Ifit be, how is this dtliberation to be conducted? .The rules prescribe the mode with precision, and
go so faras to direct, that "at the request 0 any two of the
board, the names of the menibem who Oke and second a
The bond must'
motion, shall'be entered on the minutes1
be offered, and the question ought Vt be put, and must be
put, whether it shall be accepted. Th'.acceptance is necemsary-to the-completion of 4eliverv, and as the only proof
whichcmabe given of that fact, unless it be delivered to an
attorney, previously appointed by a'board fo receive it.
Acceptance; -undoubtedly, includes approbation, but is the
deliberate act of the board, and must appear in their mnutes. If it must, a copy of those minutes is, in a suit'
brought by the hank, the only admissible evidence of the
fact.
1827.
-

OF THE UNITED STATES.
l82.
I think it worthy of remark, that among these rules and
regulations, not one is found whch. ordains that a record
shall be kept, ii which the proceedings of the decrs Bankof Wt
V.
shall be inserted. They are framed upon the idea, that one
must be kept. We find them speaking of the minutes; as if Dandridge-,
their exstence was. indispensable, and need not be -pre.
scribed. Imitating .the charter, in this respect/it was deemed
unnecessariy to ordain that a beng should write, wh6se orgpamzatibn ,gave it not the means of transacting business

otherWise.than by writing.
The counse1 for the plaintiffs has sought to escape the
almost insuperable difficulties which must attend- any atui
,tempt .to maintain the proposition, that a corporation ag.
gregate can act without writing, by insiutihg that the direm
tors are not the corporation, but are to be considered merely
as individuals who are.its agents.
If this proposition can b successfully maintained, it be?
comes. a talisman, by whose magic power the whole fabrik
which the law has erected respecting corporations, is 4t
once dissolved. In examining it, we encounter a difficulty
in the commencement. Agents are constituted for special
purposes, and the extent of their power is prescribedsin
writing, by the, corporate body itself. The -directors-are
electd by the.stockholders, and- manage gll their affairs, in
vir.tue-of the power conferred by the election.. The-stockholders impat 'no. authority to. them, except by electing
them as directors. But, we are told, aid are told truly, that
-the authority is given in the charter. The charter authbrizes the directors to manage all the business of the orporation. But do they act as individuals, or in a corporate
characte 9 .If they adt as a corporate body, then the whole
law., applies to them-gs to other corporate bodies. If they
act as individuals, then we have a corporation which never
acts in its corporate character, except in the instantes of
electing its directors, or instructing them. The corporafion pgssesses -many important powers, and is, as a corporation,*to, perfoire many important.acts,scarcely one of which
is to be performed in a corpointp character. They sre all
to *be performed by agents, acting as individuals, !nder general powers conferred by the charter,
15
VorL. xII.

CASES IN, THE SUPREME COURT
It cannot escape noticerthat this rule, if it be one, would
apply to almost, ail corporations aggregate, and would aboa v
of8hu
lish the distinction which has" been taken between those
Dank
U.S.
which act by an individual, and those which act by -an agv.
Dandridge. gregate of persons. The first partakes of the qualities of
1927.

a sQle corporation, the last of a corporation aggregate.
This rule would apply t6 almost'every corporation aggregate which elists, or which ever has existed. The exceptions are the very few in which all the members are active,
or in which the corporation acts ty a single individual who
is its head. All others act by boards usually described in
the charter. If the president and directors of the Bank of
the United States act as 'individuals. then ;t would seem,
that the managers of every other corporatio,n, being in like
manner created by charter, and being in like manner empowered by charter to transact all the afiairs of the corporation, would likewise. act as individuals, andthe whole doctrines of the law upon the subject, would find nothig to
which they are applicable.
'gut these doctrines grow out of adjudged cases, and
Courts have always considered those ofcial.agents, whose
powers are described in the charter, and who act collectivdly, as acting in a corporate character. The idea has, I believe, never before been. suggested, that their acts were to
be treated as the acts of individuali. They do not appear
as individual acts ; they are not in the name of individuals,
bufbf the corporate body. In all the cases which have
come before this Cour, that of The Bank of Columbia v
PattrsAon i.dministrator:,as well as all others, directors
are considered as acting in their corporate character. In
the cases in England, where ihe faliK"df England has been
a party, and in all Qthers, the same view has always been
taken of the subject.
The president and directors form, by the charter, a select
body, in which the general powers of the corporation are
placed. Tins body is,*I think, the acting corporation ; and,
according to the 4th article of the fundamental rules, seven
of themj including the president, or the director deputed by
the president, are necessary to cbnstitute a board. The
act of the major bart of the board, is the act of the whole,
and binds the. corporation; but this act must, on general

OF THE UNITED STATESI

11:5

principles, be dome at one and the same time, and at a re- 1827.
gular meeting held for the purpose. (Kyd.Cbop. 309.) Its \
of tli
validity depends on the legal constitution of the -board, and BaIk
U.S.
V.
onits being the act of the body. These essential requisites
must be &own; and to show them, the board must keep a Dldridpt.
ecor.of its proceedings. Were the by-lawa silent on the
subject, this would'be, as I think, rendered indispensable,
by the fact, that it is the-act of iac*oration aggregate.
If there must -be a record of their proceedings, and, even
weze this necessity not absolute, if the by-laws show that
there is oe, it follows that this rtcord, not the oral testimony of 4he members, or of bystanders, must prove their
acts. Their acceptance of any deed, or their assent to any
contract, if it be theirown act, must appear on this record;
if -itbe by -agents, authorized for the purpose, the vote giving the authority must appear in like-manner..
The 6th article of the fundamental rules directs, that
"each cashier or treasurer, before he enters upon the du.
ties of-his office, shall be required to give bend, with two.
or more sureties, to the satisfaction-of the dkzetors, in a
-sum not less than 50,000 dollars, with a condition," &c.
As the bond'is to le gwen before the cashier enters upon
the duties of his office, it-must be given'-before he can rightfully perform any orcil act; and it will be admitted, that
the sureties to an official bond are responsible only for the
official -acts of the officer. This bond cannot be given till
it is received, for they aTe different, and equally necessary
paz:ts of one and the same act; but,'if it could, the law spe-cmlly requires that it shall be "o the satisfaction of the di.
rectors.7 The "satisfaction" must be as to the sufficiency
of the sureties, forthe amount oftbe penalty is fixed by law.
Thins is a subject on which the judgment of the directors
must be exercised, and it can be exercised ouly at a regular
meeting of a board, legally constituted. This must appear
by the record. 'Any opinion given otherwise, is the opinion
of individual members, but is -not the corporate opinion of
the board, irsnot a corporate act binding on the corporation,
or of which the corporation can avail itself.
Itappears to me, that the bond must be received and
approve& by the board, before the cashier can regularly perform any official act. This receptioniand approbation are

CASES IN THE SUPREME' tOUILT
required by the law which enables'the cOrporaion to act.
SThey cannot be dispensed with. Xha.they have beeA perBank of the formed must be proved or presumed; If.they have h4en
U.8
V., performed, they are uppn rocordifor the v.ery act of per-'
banrdardgd. formance places them upon record. Tins record, or an authentic copy.of it, must, according tothe rules.vf evidence
be produced, that it may prove itself..
May. its existenge be~presumed in.this case" .
The corporation, which clauis this presumption, keeps
the record, and is now ii possession of it, if. it exists., -No
rule of evidence is more familiar to .the profession, thW"
that a paper cannot be preumed under sucfi circumstances.
I have stated the view .which .was taken bythe Circuit
Court of this case. I have, only to add, that the law is now
settled otherwise, perhaps to the,.advancement of.public
convenience.. I acquiesce, as I ought, -inthe decision which
has been made, though I could not concur in it.
1827.

,JUDGNMENT. This cause came on, &c. On:consiaeratio&"
whereofiit is ORMIRxD and ADJUDQ.EDthat thiere was error
.in the Circuit Courtih rejecting the evidew e offered, y
the plaintith in the first bill of exceptiofis. stited" and pnot
suflerihg the same to go to the jury in support of the issue&
joined in.thp.case; and also, that there was error ia the qaid
Court in rejecting the evidence offiered:by the.plaintiff in
the Pecond bill of exceptionsi and not suffering the same to
-go to thd jury in- support -of the .same issues; .th, Court
being of opinion, that the evidence was. admissible in
favour of the plaintifl, hotwithstandin& there wal. go
record of any
of the bonit stated in said
bills- of exceptions by the.board of directors of the bank
aforehaid, and that the plaintiffs ivere at liberty to prove ihe
fact of such approval by the said board,.by presumptive evildence, in the same way and manner as such. fact might be
proved in the dase of private persons n6t acting as a coyporation, or as the agents of a corporation. And it is further
onaE and ADJUDGED, that for the error aforesaid,, the
judgment of the said Circuit Court be, and berelb is,. RiVERSED and ANNULLED, and that the same be .remanded to
the said Circuit Court, with directions to award a verje
faias de noro.
-apiroval

