REPORTS
.or

THE

DECISIONS
IN TBE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
JANUARY TERM, 1827

tPaizz.

PU&TzcA. Aeezxssiozr. LAwrmu
PROBABLE 1USE.]

ConsxssioN.

The PALMYRA, ESCURRA, Master.
A question of probable cause of seizurc, under the Piracy Acts of
The 8d March, 1819, ch. 75. and the 15th of May, 1820, ch. 112.
In Such a case, although the crew may be protected by a commission
honaficle received, and acted under, from the consequences attaching to the offence oUiiracy, by the general law of nations, although
such conmission was irregularly issued, yet, if the defects in the
commission be -such as, connected with the insubordination and
predatory spirit of the crew, to excite a justly founded suspicion,
It is sufficient, under the act of Congress, to justify the captors for
brmsng in the vessel' for adjudication, and-to exempt them from
costs and damages.
Although probable cause of seizure will not exempt from costs and
damages, in seizures under mere municipal statutes, unless expressly made a ground of justification by the law itself, this principle 'does iot-extend to captxres jue belli, nor to marine torts generally, nor to, acts of Congress authorizing the exercise of belligerent rights to a limited extent, such as the Piracy Acts of the
.9d of March, 1819, c. 75. and the 15th of Mar, 18,20. c. 112
VOL. XII.

2CASES

IN THE SUPREME COURT

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of South Carolina.
S This was a libel of information under the act of Congress
The
of the 3d of March, 1819, c. -75. entitled," An act to prbPafmyra. tect the commerce of the United States, and punish the
1827.

crime of piracy," continued in force by the act of the 15th
of May, 1820, c. 112. The libel was filed'by the District
Attorney, as well in behalf of the United States, as of the
captors, and alleged that thie brig Palmyra, alias the Panchita, was a vessel, from which a piratical aggression, sfrch,
ddpredation, restraint, and seizure, had been attempted and
made, upon the high seas, in and pon the scooner Coquette, a vessel of the United States, and of the citizens
thereof, and in and upon the master, officers, and crew of
the said schooner Coquette, citizens of the United States;
and in and upon the Jeune Eugenie, a vessel of the United
States, and of the citizens thereof, and in and upon Ee#ard
L. Coffin, the master, and the officers and crew of the said
vessel, being citizens of the United States, and also in and
upon other vessels of the United States, their officers and
crews, citizens of Abe United States, and in and upon other
vessels of varous natiors, states, and kingdoms, their officerg and crews, citizens and subjects of the said states and
kingdoms. The vessel in question was an armed, vessel,
ostensibly cruising as a privateer, under a commission from
the King of Spain, and was captured on the high seas, on
the 15th of€August, 1822) by the United' States' vessel of
war the Grampus, commanded by Lietienant Gregory, after a short resistance, and receiv.!ng a fire from the Grampus,
by which one man was killed, and six men were wounded.
The captured vessel was sent into the port of Charleston;
South Carolina, for adjudication. A libel was filed, "and a
claim interposed, and upon the proceediings in the District
Court, a decree was pronounced, restoring the brig to thfe
claimants, without damages for the capture, injury, or detention. From this sentence, an appeal was interposed by
both parties to the Circuit Court; and upon the hearing iti
that Court, a decree was pronounced affirming so much of
the decree is acquitted the brig: and reversing so much of

OF THE UNITED STATEs.
it as demed damages; and the Circuit Court proceeded
1827.
finally to award damages, to the amount of 10,288 dollars \ov-.'
The
and 58 cents. From this decree an appeal was interposed
Suthe
to
captors,
the
and
States
in behalf of the United
pieme Court. The cause coming on to be heard in this
Court, at February term, 1825, it hot appearing that there
had been, any final decree in the Circuit Court, ascertaining
the amount of damages, -the cause was dismissed., But at
the last term, it being discovered that in point of fact there
had been a final award of damages, which was omitted by
mistake lr the transeopt of the record -certified by" the
Clerk ot the Coturt below, this Court, on motion of thi
appellants, ordered the canse to be reinstatea.
At the hearing in tire Court below, it appeared that the
commission of the Palmyra was numbered 38, and entiledin
the-Margin, "Real Passaporte de Corso para los Mares de
indias*, that is, ""A royal cruisingpassport for the Indian
seas." The great seal of Spain. was affixed to it, and it was
signed with the royal sign manual with the usual formula:
" Yo "lReg.Y It was afterwards countersigned by- the Secretary of State and Marine Affairs, and'dated at Madrid,
the 10th of February, 1816. The blanks in the passport or
corfimission, were filled up to Don Pablo Llanger, an inhaitant of Cadiz, to arm for war his Spanish schooner (Goleft) called the Palmyra, of ninety-three tons, one twelve
pound cannon, and eight carronades, ten pounders, with a
crew of one hundred men. A printed note on the back of
the commission, signed by Juan Dios Robiou, lieutenant in
the national -navy, and captain of the port of Porto ] ico,
dated on the 5th of February, 1822, renewed the commission in favour of Llanger, as captainof the Palmyra; for a
new cruise of three months, it having been originally granted for the term of three months, which had expired. The
vessel, on board of which the commission was found, was
in fact a brig of one hundred and sixty tons, cormmanded by
CaptainEscura. Various. testimony was taken as to the
a S9 C. 10 Wheat. Rep. 5o.

CASES IN T"E SUPREME COURT
I.7.

%
P

The

Jan. 9th.

acts of piracy committed by the Palmyra upon the Coquett
and the Jeune Eugeme, as to the insubordination an$ pv'e
datory spirit of the crew of the Palmyra, and as to the np
demara.
ture and circumstances attending the encounter betwdt4
the Palmyra and the Grampus, which gave rise to a question
offact in respect to the justifiableness of theWge of capture.
But it has not been thought necessary-to anslyse the testiwony, as the most material facts are stated in the opibion
of the Court.
The .4ttorney General,and Mr. Hjne, for the appellants,
argued, that the Palmyra was not lawfully add regularry
commissioned, and -that. admitting the vessel was so commissioned, she had forfeited. her character by the miscondtict of the officers and crew, and acquired that of a pirate.
1. A commission to cruise is a delegated authorit% and
can only proceed from the sovereign.a Subordinate agents
may be- employed to execute the will of the -sovereign in
that respect, but the actual delegation of the power must
clearly appear. The original commission being issued by
the King of Spain to Captain Llanger, for a cruise of three
months, which had expired, the commission was functits
oficto. Its subsbquent extension-to Captain Escura, by the
Port Captain of Porto Rico, was without any authority from
the King for that purpose.
2. A commission to cruise is given, not to the armed 'tso
sel,' but to the officer commanding the vessel ; and though
the officer next in rank may, in his absence, succeed to his
rights, he does so by becoming captain for the time being.
It hs, therefore, been expressly determined, that if in -the
absence of the master, a privateer makes a capture, it is not
such a capture as vests a prize interest in the captors, but it
must be condemned as a droit.b
2. It has become an established rule, and made necessary
a M'artens, Primteers, 11-58.

ftanslation.
b S Rob. 195. 224. 6 Rob. £8'0.

a Arirt. 55. Mr. AohnsoW'

OF TfE UNITED STATES.

by (be lgws of all nations, thatevery privateer, before she

1827.
is penpitted to cruise, sbll'give security. and this fact must . 'm'v
The
secu-'
appear on the face of the commission itselfa Such
not given m
was
but
Spain,
of
laws
the
by
Mty is required
this case.
3. The learn%$ counsel entered into a minute exanmation of the facu, to show that tWe vessel ought to have been
condemned as a piratical vessel, under the law of nations,
or as having committed a piratical aggression under the
acts of Cogress, which were in conformity with the law of
nations. They then pipceeded to argue, that however this
might be, ttsere was, at all events, probable cause for thecapture of the Palmyra, and for sending her in for adjudication. Probable cause had been defined to be less than
evidence which would justify condemnation. In its legal
sensev it means a seizure made under circumstances which
warrant suspicion.' The term must receive the same exf
position. in matters of prize, and is applied to a captor as
wpp as a seizoi.e In all captures made jure bedli, circumstances Qf strong suspicion will- justii'y the captors, and the
same circumstances must equally justify a seizure made
under this act of Congress, which authorizes hostilities
against those, who, hy their conduct, have acquired the
piratical character, and forfeited the protection-of their own
country. lndeed; this must now be considered as a settled
principle in this Court, since the decision of the case of the
AMarsanna Flora -d very circumstance of which would find
its parallel in the present case. The Court hlaving determined that it will not look beyond the act of Congre. 3 for
a description of piratical vessols, and that no damages will
bie given for bringing in for adjudication, after capture of a
vessel falling within that tescriptn, if the sefzing officer
a iwkat Capt. 41. 820. Martes,4.6. Bank. Q. 3. Pub. DuBro.-Civ. and Adm. Law, 389. Mofloy,
ponceau's tranl. 147.
49.
k Lockey. The Ifnited States, 7 Cranch, 389..848.
e tAfwi' Rep. S7. 3 Cranch, 458. 491.
o i 1rAep4RWJ.

5

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827.
'.v
w.,
The
Palmra.

acted bona fide in the honest discharge of his duty under
the law, and the instructions of the President, althojgh the
Court itself might be of opinion that he ought to have released the vessel, nothing remains but to apply these pnnciples to the facts of the present case. The same doctrine
had also. been laid down by. Sir W. Scott' in a case which
this Court cite with approbation in the judgment in the .Marianna flora.a
The learned counsel further insisted, that the seizing officer was fully justified in capturing, and sending in for ddjudication, the Palmyra, upon the following, among other
grounds. 1,. Because the vessel had, in the very Words of
the statute, commuted various acts "of piratical aggression,
search, restraint, depredation, and seizure," on American,
and other vessels. 2. Because the conduct of the vessel, in
searching American ships, in violation of the treaty between
the United States and'Spain, and all the other circumstances
of the case, warranted the worst suspicions respecting her
character and conduct. 3. Because the conduct of the commander of the Palmyra, after the capture, and the unsatisfactory explanations given by him of the above circumstances, confirmed those suspicions ; and the seizing officer
not being, according to his instructions, "satisfied.that she
was acting undei a regular rom'mission, and not piratically,"
he was boufd to send her i. for adjudication.
Mr. Tazezoell, for the respondents, argued, (1.) That the
Court had no authority to reinstate the cause, after it was
dismissed at a former term: f. Because it might operate to
the prejudice -of the sureties, to whom the property had
been delivered, on bail, in the Court below.; and, 2. Because the cause might be heard lb this Court upon the ap1ieal, in respect to the s5entence of restitution, that being the
only decree in which the United States had any interest as a
party; and that, as to damage's, the captors were the only
persons responsible for damages, and tliey alone had a right
a The.Louirs. 3 Dodson'.8 dm. Rep. 210.

OF THE UNITED STATES,
1827.
of"_ppeal respecting that subject; so that the original cause
tbzs become divided mtd two causes, in which each
The
Palmyra.
plrty was an actor.
was
libel
the
that
2. Th learned counsel also insisted
defefive, in not charging with suificient precision the paricular acts 9 f 'fatical aggression, and in omitting to allege
itprevious prosecution and conviction of the captured persots of.the crime of piracy, which, it was insisted, was an
,04antial prerequisite to the proceeding in rem.
-13As to the general merits, he argued with great minutetiets and ability upon the facts, to show that the vessel had
not been guilty of a piratical aggression, within the neamng
of the acts.of Congress, and that no such probable cause
existed as justified the captors in the original seizure, and
in bringing in the vessel for adjudication. The evidence
was not sufficient to establish any acts of sea robbery, constituting a piratical character, or general habit of piracy;
and so far fromi having committed a pir~lcal aggression on
the Grampus, the Palmyra had merely acted in self defeiice,
the avowed puipose of Lieutenant Gregory being tQ- capture her upon suspicion. The case presented, was that of
:ho;l~lt attack made by a vessel of war of the United
States on a foreign vessel, known to be regularly commissioned, aun sent in for adjudication after.her character was
But even supposing there was
satisfactorily explained.
probable cause for the seizure and detention, that would not
excuse, unless it was followed by an actual coidemnation.
Probable cause will not excuse from remunerative damages,
in any case, unless of a capture jure be.i, or where it is
expressly provided as a justification by some municipal law.
This doctrine was clearlj recognised by the Court in the
case of the .4polton.'
Shad

Jan. 15th.
Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This io the case of a proceeding tn rem, by a libel of information founded bn the act of Congress of the third of
a 9 M7eat. Rep.'36A2.

CASES IN THE SUPREME ,COt
%

The
Paituy.

March, 1819, ch. 75. as contfined in force by the act 0
Congress of the lth -of Ma), 18%0, ch. 1.12. The econd
sedtion of the former act authorizes the president "to instruct the commanders of publiS armed vessels of t United States, to seize, subdue, and' send iito any port 6f he
United States, any armed vessel or boat, biflany vessel or
boat, the crew whereof shall be armed, and which shall have
attempted or committed any piratical aggression, search,
restraint, depredation oi' seizure, upon any vessel of the
United States, or of the citizens thereof, or upon any other
vessel." The fourth section declares," that whenever any
vessel or boatfrom whch any piratical aggression, search,
-restraint, depredation, or seizure, shall have bpen first attempted or made, shall. be captured and brought into any
port of the United States, the same shall and may he adjudged and condemned to their use, and thaqt of the captors,
after due process and trial, in any Court having Adiiualty
jurisdiction, and-which shall beholden for the diftriet into
*'vhichsuch captured vessel shall be brought1 and -the same
Court shall thereupon order a sale and distribution thereof
accordingly, and at their discretion."
The brig Palmyra is an armed vessel, assertini herself to
be a privateer, and acting under a ':ommission of the King
of Spain, issued by his- authorized -officer at the Island of
Porto Rico. She was captured on the.high seas on the 1 th
of August, A. D. 1822, by the United States vesoel of war
Grampus, commanded by Lieutenant Gregory, after.a short
resistance, and receiving a firm from the Grampus, by wilich
one man was killed, and ixmen were wounded. She was
sent into Charleston, South Carolidt for adjidication. A
libel was- duly filed,, and a claim anterposed; aid upon- the
proceedings in the District Courf of that distict, a decree
was pronounced by the Court, that the brig be acquitted,
without. anydamages for the capture,'jury, or detentioh.
From this decree an appeal-was ma4e, by both parties, -t the
Circuit Court;.and upon the he aring in that Court; where;
for the first time, the officers of the privateer w'ere 'examined
Onounced a decree, affirm.W4eas,
the Circuit C
-

OF THE UNITED STATES.
ing so muchi of the decree of the District Court, as acquit- 1827.
fed the bng, and reversing so much of it as denied damages,
'The
and proceeded finally to award damages to the claimants, to Palmyra.
dethis
From
cents.
58
and
dollars
the amount of 10,M88
cree there was an appeal, interposed on behalf the United
States and the captors, to the Supreme Court. The cause
came on to be heard upon this appeal, at February term,
1825, and upon inspection of the record, it did not then appear that there had been any finaldecree, ascertaining the
amount of damages. The Court were of opinion, that if
there had been no such decree, the case was not properly
before the-Court upon the appeal, there not being any final
decree, within the meaning of the act of Congress. The
Court considered, that the damages were but an incident to
the principal decree; that the cause was but a single one;
and that the cause coild not, at the same time, be in the
Circuit Court for the purpose of assessing damages, and in
this Court upon. appeal, for the purpose of an acquittal or
condemnation of the vessel. The questions indeed were
different; but the cause was the same. Upon this ground,
the appeal was dismissed. But at the last term of the
Court, it appearing that in point of fact there had been a
final award of damage,, altd that the error was a mere misprision of the clerk of the Circuit Court In transmitting an"
imperfect record, the Court, upon motion of the appellants,
at the last term, ordered the cause to be reinstated;
It is now contended, that this Court had no authority to Whether this
au.
reinstate the cause after such a dismissal; 1. Because it may Court
thorityhad
tb rain.
operate to the prejudice of the stipulators or sureties, to atatethecause.
whom the privateer was delivered, upon stipulation, in the
Court below; and, 2. Because the cause was capable of
being heard in this Court upon the appeal in respect to the
,decree of acquittal, that being the only decree in which the
United States had any interest as a party; and that as to the
damages, the captors were the only persons responsible for
--damages, and they alone had a right of appeal respecting
the same; so that by operation of law, the cause bad be2
VOL. XII.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
conic divided into two separate and distinct causes, in which
party was an actor.
This Court caunot concur in either objection. WhenThe
"'?myra. ever a ;tipulauion is taken in an admiralty suit, for
the property subjected to legal process and condemnatio, the stipulation is deemed a mere substitute for the thing itself, and
the stipulators'liable to the exercise of all those authorities
on the part of the Court, which it could properly exercise,
if the thing itself were still in its custody This is the
known course of the Admiralty. It is quite a different question. whether the Court will, in particular cases, exercise its
authority, where sureties on the. stipulation may be aiedted
injuriously. That is a subject addressed toits sound discretion. In the present case, there was no ground for surprise
or injury'to the stipulators, or indeed to any party innterest. If there had been norlinal award of damages, the cause
would not have beefn properly before this Court, and the
appeal itself, being a nullity, would have left the cause still
in the Circuit Court. But as such an award was made, the
appeal was rightfully made; and the dismissal, being solely
for a defect of jurisdiction apparent on the record, and.
founded on a mistake, constituted no bar to a new appeal,.
even if a general dismissal might. The appeal then might,
at any time withi five years, have been lavifully made, and
have bound the parties to the stipulation, to all its consequences The difference between a new appeal, and a reinstatement of the old appeal, after a dismissal-from a misprision of the clerk, is not admitted by this Court justly to involve any difference of right as to the stipulators. Every
Court must be presumed to exercise those powers belonging
to it, which are necessary for the promotion of public justice, and we do not doubt that this Court possesses the
pokv~er to reinstate any cause dismissed by mistake. The
reinstatement of the cause was founded, in the opinion ot
this Court, upon the plain principles of justicei and'is according to tl.known practice of otherjudicial tribunals in
like cases.
The other oblection has not, in our opinion, a more solid
1827

Seach

OF THE UNITED STATES.
foundation. The libel was filed by the District Attorney, as 1827.
well in behalf of the United States, as of the captors, and
Tie
prayed, as usual, a condemnation of the vessel, and distribura.
ofanpurpose
the
for
noticed
tion of the proceeds. This fact is
swering the observation made at the bar, as to the parties to
the libel. It has been supposed, that the United States, and The entire
cau sereguIthe captors, are to zbe deemed severally libellants, having'-7ly
before the
distinct rights, both of prosecution and appeal. But this Court.
proceeds upon a mistake. In every case of a proceeding
for condemnation, upon captures made by the public ships
of war of the United States, whether the same be cases of
prize) strictly jure belli, or upon public acts in the nature
of captures jure beli, the proceedings are in the name and
authority of the United States,, who prosecute for themselves as well as for the captors. The captors cannot,
without the authority of the government, proceed to enforce condemnation. The suit is, in form and substance, a
-proceeding by and in the name of the United Statbs, for
the benefit of all concerned. And Whether the question
respect the point of condemnation, or of damages, the Unted States have a right of appeal coextensive with the
whole matter in litigation, and may interpose their protection to guard their agents and officers against injury and
damages, These agents and officers are, indeed, in a bertarn sense, parties to the suit, as the seizing officer is in
cases of mere municipal seizures, and when the claiinant
makes himself, by a demand of damages, an actor in the
suit, no doubt exists that the Court may proceed to decree
damages against them, and thu§ entitle them to a separate
right of appeal, if the government shodld feel that it had no
further interest to pursue the suit. But still the right to
damages must always be dependant upon the queftion of
condemnation or ac4uittal, for it can never be successfully.
contended, that if a condemnation is finally adjudged, a
decree for damages can be maintained. And, on the other
hand, in a case of acquittal, the whole circumstances of the
case must be takeninto consideration, in order to ascertain
that the case is one which justifies an award of damages.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
In the present case, there was an appeal entered by the DisAttorney for the United States, and also for the capfrom the decree of the Circuit Court. If this decrie
tors,
Tho
Palmyra. was final,
such an appeal brought up the whole cause as to
all he parties, and would, in point of law, have produced
the same effect, if in form the appeal had. only been vzthe
name of the United States. If the decree was'not tinal,
(as upon the original record it appeared to this Court not to
be,) then it was void as to all parties. Either way, then,
there never was any separation of the parties libellanis, so
as to gtve rise to the point of separate independent causes.
We are,-then, of opinion, that the whole cause is now rightfully before us.
It is contended on behalf of the appellees, that the preObjectio'ns to
thi snfliciency
sent suit cannot be maintained, because the libel itself'is
of tie libel,
fatally defective in its averments. It is said to be too loose,
inartificial and general in its Atructure, to give a just foundation for any judgment of condemnation. If this were
admitted to be true, the only effect would be, supposing the
merits .on the evidence appeared to be in favour of the
libellants, That the Court would, according to its known
course of practice, remand the cause to the Circuit Court,
with directions to allow an amendment of the libel, and ulterior proceedings co'nsequent thereon. But there is asserted to be another fatal defect in the averments of the libel,
which is incapable' of Tieing cured, because it cannot be established in poifit of' fact; andthat is, that the offenders are
not allejed to have been convicted upon ay prosecution tn
personam, of the offence charged in the libel. The argument is, that there must be a due conviction-upon a prosecution and indictment for the offence tnpersonam, averred
and prioved, in order to maintain the libel n rem.
far the
Howrules
of. In respect to the first objction,'it must be adinitted, that
strict
the common the libel is drawn in in inartificial, inaccurate, and loose
law, as to manner. The strict rules of the common law as to cnmv;
in
pleading
criminalcases,
are applicable. nal prosecutions, have never been supposed by-this Court
to iforma- to be required in informations of seizure in the Admiralty
tions - retii. for forfeitures. which are deemed to be civil proceedings ini
1827.

Strict

OF THE UNITED STATES.

rem. Even on indictments at the common law, it is often 1827.
sufficient to state the offence in the very terms of the prohi.
The
bitory statute; and the cases cited by the Attorney General
for Palmyra.
are directly in point. In informations in the Exchequer
seizures, general allegations bringing the 'case within the
words of the statute, have been often held sufficient. And
in this Court it has been repeatedly held, that in libels in
rem, less certainty than what belongs to proceedings at the
common law, will sustain a decree of condemnation, if the
words of the statute are pursued, and the allegations point
out the facts, so as to give reasonable notice to the party to
enable him to shape his defence. There is, indeed, in Admiralty proceedings, little ground to insist upon much strictness of averment, because, in however general terms the
offence may be articulated, it is always in the power of the
Court to prevent surprise, by compelling inore particular
charges as to the matters intended to be brought forward by
the proofs. In general, it may be said, that it is sufficient in asGeneralrule
to libels in
libels in rem, for forfeitures, to allege the offence in the terms r
b.
of tne statute creating the forfeitures. There may be exceptions to this rule, where the terms of the statute are so
general as naturally to call foremore distinct specifications.
Without pretending to enumerate such exceptions, let us
look at the allegations in the amended libel in the present
case. It charges, "that the said brig, called the Palmyra,
&c. was, and is, a vessel from which a piratical aggression,
searc:b depredation, restraint, and seizure, has been first
attempted and made, to wit, upon the high seas, in and upon
the schooner Coquette, a vessel of the United States, and
of the citizens thereof, and in and upon the master, officers,
and crew of the said schooner Coquette, citizens of the
United States, and also in and upon the Jeune Eugenie, a
vessel of the United States, and of the citizens thereof, and
in and upon Edward L. Coffin, the master, and the officers
and crew of the said vessel, being citizens of the United
States, aid also in and 'pon other vessels of the United
States, their officers and crews, citizens of the United States,
and in and upon other vessels of various nations, states and

CASES IN-THE SUPREME COURT
kingdoms, thezr off cers and crews, citizens and subjects of
said-statesand kingdoms." Now; whatever may be said as
to the looseness.and generality, and consequent insufficiency
The
Palmyra.
of'the latter clauses of this allegafton, the former specifying the Coquette and Jeune Eugenie, (upon which alone
io.mieiimation,) have, in our qpithe proofs mainly rel) for
was not necesmon,reasonable and sufficient certainty. Itsary to state in detail the particular acts constituting the piratical aggression, search, depredation, restraint, or seizure.
The general words of the statute are sufficiently descriptive of the nature -of the-offeuce, .and the particular acts
are matters proper in the proofs. We may, then,-dismiss
this part bf the.objection.
apre- The other point of objection is of-a far more important
How far
prosecuvious
It is well known, that at the common
tion i petso- and difficult nature.
nais
found law, inmany cases of felonies, the party forfeited his goods
sayto necesthe proceed- and chattels to the crown. The forfeiture did not, strictlyspeaking, attach in rem ; but it was a part, or at least a conog i re-.
1827.

1

seqijence, of the judgment of convictioni Itis plain from
this statement, that no right to the goods,and chattels of the
felon could be acquired by-the crown by the mere commission of the offence; but the-right attached only by the convidtion of the offender. The necessary result was, that id
every case where the crown sought. to recover such goods
and chattels, it.was indispensable to establish its right by
producing the record of thejuagment of conviction. In the
contermplation df the common law, the .oender'right was
not devested until the conviction; But this doctrine qeXer
was applied to seizures fnd forfeitures, created by statute, in
.rem, cognizable on the revenue side of the Exchequer.
The thing is here primarily considered as the offender, or
rather the. offence is attached primarily to the thing; and
this, whether the offence be malum-prohibitum,,or malum in
se. The same principle applies to proceedings in rem, on
seizures in the Admiralty. Many cases exist, where the forfeiture for acts done attaches solely in rem, and there is no
accompanying penalty in, personam. Many cases exist,
where there is both a forfeiture n rem and a personal pe-

15

OF THE UNITED STATES.
nalty;

But in neither clasq of cases has it ever been de-

cided that the prosecutions were dependent upon each other.

18M27.
-%_'

The
But the practice has been, and so this Court understand the
Palmyra.
of,
independent
stands
rem
law to be, that the proceeding in
and wholly unaffected by any criminal proceeding i personam. This doctrine is deduced from a fair interpretation
of the legislative intention apparent upon its enactmefits.
Both in England and America, the jurisdiction over proceedings sin rem, is usually vested in different Courts frbm
those exercising criminal jurisdiction. If the argunent
at the bar were well founded, there could never be a judgment of condemnation pronounced against any vessel coming
within the prohibitions of tlie acts on which the present
libel is founded; for there is no act of Congress which provides for the personal punishment of offenders, who commit
" any piratical aggression, search, restraint, depredation or
seizure," within the meaning of-those acts. Such a construction of the enactments, which gnes wholly to defeat
their operation, and violates their plain import, is utterly
inadmissible-. In the judgment of thiis Court, no personal
conviction of the offender is necessary to enforce a forfeiture rn rem in cases of this nature.
Having disposed of these questions, which are preliminary in their nature, we may now advance to the consideration of those which turn upon the merits of-the cause.
These questions are, 1. Whether the present be, upon the
facts, a case for condemnation, and, if not. 2. Whether it
be a case for remunerative damages, for vindictive damages
are and must be disclaimed.
Upon the first point, it is unnecessary to go into any examination at large of the varous facts preceding and accompanying the capture, because the Judges are divided in
opinion; and consequently, according to the known practice of the Court, the decree of the Circuit Court, so far as
it pronounced a decree.of acquittal, must be affirmed.
In respect to the second point, we are all of opinion that Question of
the case is clearly not a case for damages. The whole cir- damages.
cumstances present such well founded grounds for suspicion

CASES IN THE SUPREMP COURT
1827.
a

The
r

of the piratical character and conduct of the privateer, as
Lieutenant Gregory, in the just exercise of his inscructir-s from the President, under the acts of Congress,
to'sabdue and send lier in for adiudication.
That her crew"
were guilty of plunder from the Coquette and the Jeune
Eugenie, is established by proofs entirely competent and satisfactory Her exercise of the right of search on -these
vessels was irregular and unjustifiable, and indicated on
"the part of the boarding officers no disinclination to petty
thefts, if they avoided forcible 'robbery. Her commission
is itself liable to much suspicion and criticism. It varies
essentially in the description of the rig, the size, and the denomigation of 'the vessel from that on board of which it is
found. It purports to be'for a schooner of 93 tons, under
the-command-of Don Pablo Llanger; it is found on board
of a brig of 160 tons, commhnded by Captain Escurra. It
was originally granted for a tlhree months' cruise, which had
expired; and it purports to be renewed by the Port Captain
of Porto Rico, a subordinate agent of the King of Spain,
for a new cruise, by an endorsement on it, without any
known authority. We do not advert to these circumstances
to establish the position that the commission was utterly
void, or rendered the exercise of belligerent rights piratical.. Whatever may be the irregularities in the granting of
such commissions, or the validity of them, so far as respects
the King of Spain, to found- an ibterest of prize in the captors, if the Palmyra bonafide received it, and her crew acted
bona fide under it,. it eught, at all events, in the Courts of
neutral nations, to be held a complete protection against the
imputation of general piracy. But the difects of the commission, connected with- the almost total want of order and
command oil board of the privateer, and the manifest insubordination, and predatory spirit of the crew, could not but
inflame to a high degree every other just suspicion. In
shoit, taking the circumstances together, the Court think
that they presented, prma facte, a case of pliratical aggression, search, restraint, and depredation, within the acts of
Congress, open to oxplanation indeed, but if unexplained,

Srequired

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1827.
pressing heavily on the vessel for the purpose of forfeiture.
Lieutenant Gregory, then, was justifiable in sendiqg her in
for adjudication, and has been guilty of no wrong calling p The
for comrpensation.
Probable
It has been argued at the bar, that probable cause of
cause of sexseizure in this case constitutes no ground of defence against zure a bar to
the claim of ddmages. It has been. truly stated as the set- the cla'm fox
tled doetrine of this Court, that in cases of seizures under
mere municipal laws, probable cause, unless so made by
statute, constitutes no ground for denying damages, or justifymg the seizure. But it is supposed, that probable cause
is not an excuse or justification of any seizure or capture,
exceptin cases jure belli; and the case of The 4.ollon, in
this Court, (9 Wheat. Rtp. 362.) is relied on to establish

this position.

That case contains no doctrine leading justly

to any such conclusion. It was a case of seizure under our
revenue laws, and, in the opinion of the Court, the pont is.
elmined how far probable cause constituted, m that casw,
LVbund'to exempt ftem damages. On that occasion the
Gourt shxd, that the argument had not distinguished betwen
itobable cause as applied to cases of capture jure Mli and
as applied to cases of municipal seizures, and then protetied to *t't 'the diatiiaiOn. There was no intimation,
that in cases of marine tits generally, or under laws au.
thorizing the exercise to a limited extent of belligerent
righ%,br mast belligerent rights; probable cause miglit not
be &yffieit excuse. In the case of the Mifrianna FRara,
-atthie Iamt te I,(I WAeat. Rep. 1.) the verypoint was be.
ibkN the Court, tnd it wss inthat case held, that probable
cause *&h a tufient. etcuse for a capture under circumttanea of hostite aggression at sea. Indeed, in cases of

mlfte tmrts arising under the general maritime law, probab%chuse ten is a completeexcuse for the act, and always
:Itigftinages.
1n the Admiralty, the award
goes
of damages always rests in the sound discretion of the Court,

uner aU,the circumstances., The case of the St. LoUms, in,
t Dodt. Rep. 210. is a strong illustration of the doctrine.
But, in cases like the present, where, the public armed ships
3
VOL. XII.

CASES IN THE SUPREME-COURT
of the United States are authorized to make captures to a
limited extent, the authority so exercised by them must be
The
deemed to stand upon the same analogy as captures strictly
Palnyra.
jure belli. And the doctrine of the pnze
courts as to the
denial of damages, where there is,.probable cause for the
£apture, furnishes the proper rule to govern the discretion
of the Court. We are then of opinion, that in the prksent
case there was strong probable cause for the capture,.and
that the decree of the Circuit Court, so far as it awards
damages to the claimants,, ought to be reversed.
Objection to It remains only to remark upon one or twopoints madethe teitimoziy
of the seizing against the competency of some of the testimony in the
is
officer waived
objected, that Lieutenant Gregory is not a
in the Court cause. It
below
competent witness, because he is, notwithstanding hi release of his interest as captor, interested to defeat the claim
for damages. However well founded this objection may be
as to his competency on the point of damages, having been
admitted both in the District and Circuit Courts, as a witness, without objectidnf, we trink there was a waiver of the
objection, and it cannot:now be insisted on. As to the depositions of Captains Souther and Coffin, they were taken
under commissions duly issued from the Circuit Court according to the rule of this Court, and are, therefore, admis*sible upon the strictest principles.
1827.

\ow

.

This cause came on, &c. On consideration
whereof, it is ADJUDGED, ORDERED, and DECREED, that so
much of the decree of the Circuit Court as decrees restitution of the brig Palmyra to the-claimants, be, and the same
is, hereby affirmed: and that so much of the decree of the
said Circuit Court as awards damages to the claimants, be,
and the same is, hereby REVERSED and"ANNULLED; and it
is further ORDERED, that said cause be remanded to said
Circuit Court for further proceedings according to law.
DECREE.

