CASES IN THE SUPREME COUWT
1327.
The
Antelope.

[PPACTIC.]

The ANTELOPE.

The Spanish and Portuguese Consuls,
Claimants.

Further explanation of* the decree of this Court, in S. C., ante Vol.
X. p. 66, and vol. XI. p. 413.
The Africans captured, except those restored to the Spanish claimants, tobe delivered to the United States, absolutely and unconditionally, without the precedent payment of expenses.
No judgment or decree can be rendered directly agiunst the United
States for costs and expenses.
The fees and compensation to the marshal, where the government s
a party to the suit, and his fees or compensation are chargeable to
the United States, are to be paid out of the treasury., upon a certificate of the amount, to be made by the Court, or one of the judges.
Decree of the Circuit Court. nt respect to the apportionment among
the several parties to the suit ,if the costs and expenses, affirmed.
Identity of the Africans restored to the Spanish claimant established
by sufficient evidence.
THIS is the same cause which is reported ante, vol. X. p.
66. and vol. Xl. p. 413. and was again brought before the
Court upon a further appeal, and certificate of a division of
opinions as to the proceedings of the Court below in execution of the former decrees of this Court.

March 6th.

It was argued by the Attorney General and Mr. Key for
the appellants, and by Mr. Bernen, Mr. C. J. Ingersoll, and

Mr. Wilde, for the respondents.
Mard 15th.

Mr. Justice TansLE delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case having been before this Court, and a decree
rendered therein at February term, 1825, and again brought
up, and an explanatory decree made therein at February
term, 1826. the reports of the case in 10 Wheat. Rep. 66.
and 11 Wheat. Rep. 413., are referred to for 'the general
history of its facts and circumstances, and for the principles
settled in it by the former decrees ofthis Court. The case
was remanded to the Circuit Court, with directions to make

OF THE UNITED SrA'rEb.

15,111

1827.
a final disposition of the cIontroversy between the partieb,
pursuant to the principles of the decrees of 1825 and 1G26
T e
of this Court.
Antelope.
finally
decree
to
it
enable
to
order
in
The Circuit Court,
in the case, directed the register to take and report an ac-count of the costs, and also of the expenses of keeping,
maintaining, &c. of the Africans, by the marshal, and which
account was accordingly reported. Exceptions were filed
to the report by both the Portugueie and Spanm-h claimants.
The Circuit Court also caused proofs to be taken for the
purpose of identifying individually the Africans to be delivered to the Spanish claimants, as directed by the decree of
18-26.
Thus circumstanced, the case came on for final hearing
before the Circuit Court, The Court decreed that the Portuguese claimant should not be made liable for costs, or any
proportion of the expenses and charges of the marshal foi
maintaining, &c. the Africans, and being of opinion that
thirty-nine of the Africans were sufficiently identified by
proof, as being the propertyof the Spanish claimants, directed the thirty-nine Africans, so identified, to be delivered
to the Spanish claimants, upon their paying a proportion of
the costs and expenses reported by the registrar, in the ratio
of the number of Africans delivered, to the wnole number:
and the Circuit Court was further of opinion, that the residue of the Africans not directed to be delivered to the Spanish claimants, should be delivered to the United States, to
be disposed of according to law, but, on the question whether they shall be delivered absolutely, or on condition of
paymentof the balance of the expenses which will remain
unsatisfied after charging the Africans adjudged to the Spanish claimants in their due ratio, the judges of the Circuit
Court being divided in opinion, ordered this difference of
opinion to be certified to this Court.
The case comes up on this certificate of division, and,
also, upon an appeal prayed by the District Attorney
on behalf of the United States, and allowed, " From st.
much of the said final order of the Circuit Court, as re
lates to the apportionment among the several parties cm
1(h, costs and expenses, in the preservation. maintenalfce

GASES 1N THE SUPREME COUIRT

1827.
v
The
Antelope.

and custody, of the said'Africans, and of the costs and ux
penses of-the various proceedings which have been had in
relation to the said Africans, and, also, from so much of
said order as decrees thirty-nine of the said Africans to the

Spanish claimants."
We will first consider the question arising upon the certificate of'division of opinion between the judges of the
Circuit Court.
Quesion as to It appears, from the opinion delivered by the Circuit
the narshai's Court, and from the registrar's report, that, in making up
cxpens.,

that report as to the amount of expenses, sixteen cents per
diem was allowed the marshal for the custody, maintenance.
&c. of the Africans, and the Spanish claimants were charged.
asa condition precedent, with the proportion of expenses
of the marshal, after this rate, in the ratio of the number of
Africans to be delivered to them. The residue of the marshal's expenses, at the same rate per diem, is supposed to be
meant by the term " expenses," in the question on which
the judges were opposed in opinion, and it is supposed the
question upon which the judges were opposed in opinion
was, whether the Africans not directed to be delivered to
the Spanish claimants, should be delivered by the marshal
to the United States, absolutely and unconditionally, to bc,
disposed of according to law, or whether it should be miposed on the United States as a condition precedent to their
delivery, that the United States should pay to the marshal
his claim for expenses at the rate aforesaid, in the ratio of
the number of Africans to be delivered to the United
States.
The Spaish claimants have not appealed from the decreeof the Circuit Court. As the Court had decided that
they ought to bear some proportion of the expenses, it was
necessary, for the purpose of ascertaining the amount which
they were to pay, to fix upon some data for making up ihe
account of expenses so far as related to them. But, s they
do not complain, this Court is not called upon to decide
whether they were overcharged or not, nor to determine
whether the rate of sixteen centsper diem was warranted
by law, as the Circuit Court supposed, so far as the qpa
nish claimants are concerne,.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

As relates to the United States, the question propounded
by the judges of the Circuit Court, and upon which they.

in queswere divided in opinion, does not necessarily draw
for expenses,
allowance
marshal's
the
of
tion the data or rate
but whether the payment of his expenses, at any rate, or to
any amount, ought to be.made a precedent condition to the
delivery of the Africans to the United States. It may well
be doubted, however, whether the State law does, as supposed by the Court, authorize the marshal to charge, as
matter of right, sixteen cents per diem, for keeping, maintaining, &c. the Africans, although it might furnish some
guide, in an appeal to the sound discretion and justice of
the government, in making him a reasonable compensation.
It is true, the first section of the " Act for provwd~i:g compensation for the marshal," (3d vol. rb. 2.5.) after declaring the fees and comrensaticn to be aliwed the marshal
!or certain enumeraLed services, &c. adds, " For all other
services not herein enumerated. such fees or compensation
as arc allowed in the Supreme Court of the State wherc
,ne services are rendered." This has generally been con.
strued, and, we think, rightly, to mean, that where the services performed are not enumerated in the act of Congress,
but sich services are enumerated, and a fixed allowance
made therefor in the State laws, they shall fix the rule of
compensation. The case under consideration is wholly unprovided for by tJhe laws and usages of the State. The
AMricans to be delivered to the United States, are neither
,laves in contemplation of law, nor prisoners of war, nor
persons charged with crimes. The compensations allowed
by the laws of the State to sheriffs and jailors, in these
cases, do not, therefore, furnish any positive rule of law or
right, as to the compensation which ought to be allowed the
marshal in the peculiar circumstanceB attending these Africans. He is, no doubt, enuiled to a reasonable compensahon, but that mll.. depend upon the circumstances of the
case, and not any positive rule. But be that as it may, it
could not legally enter into the judgment and decree of the
Court, so far as that judgment or decree was to affect the
,.ihtb of tlp T'.:itcd Statc..or fte riahts of the marshal p,

549
1827.
'. -'

The

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

against the United States. It is a general rule, that no
can make a direct judgment or decree against the
United States, for costs and expenses, in a suit to which the
The
Antelope. United States is party, either on behalf of any suitor, or
1827.

SCourt

any officer of the government. As to the officers of the
be rendered government, the law expressly provides a different mode..
nited States The third section of the " Act for regulating process,"
for costs or ex- &c. (vol. 2. ch. 137.) makes provision for the fees and cornpensation to be allowed the marshal, similar to the "Act
penses.
No judgment

or decree can an*l

for providing for compensation to marshals," &c. above
cited. The fourth section makes some further regulations
c6ncerning the fees -and compensation to be allowed clerks
and marshals, and then provides, " that the same having
been examined and certified by the Court, or one of the
judges of it, in which the services shall have been rendered,
shall be passed in the usual manner at, and the amount
thereof paid out of, the treasury of the United States," &c.
warshars ex- These provisions show, we think, incontestably, that,
be whether th(. .,mhal's fees and compensation for services
peisesout toof the
paid
treasury, upon rendered the United States be fixed by some positive statua certificate of
tory rule, as in enumerated services, or depends upon what
the Court.
is reasonable and just under the circumstance. of the case,
as in non-enumerated services, they must be certified to, and
paid out of, the treasury, and cannot lawfully constitute
any part of the judgment or decree in the cause. It would,
indeed, be extraordinary, if the marshal, who is the servant
of the government, and holds possession of the Africans
merely by its authority, could obstruct the operations of the
government by a claim for compensation for his services.
The laws give the marshal no lien on the Africans, and we
can discover no principle which will justify the Court in
creating a lien, in effect, by its decree. There is no necessity for such a proceeding.
The seventh section of "An act in addition to the acts
prohibiting the slave trade," appropriates one hundred thousand dollars to carry the law into effect. The second -ection of the act authorizes the President of the United States
to make such regulations 'nd arrangements as he may dee

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1827.
expedient for the safe keeping, support, and removal, beyond the liinits of the United States, all such negroes," &c. ,.'/i
The
(5 Vol. ch. 511.)
Antelope.
for
account
reasonable
It is not to be doubted, that if a
expenses were certified according to law, that arrangements
would be made to pay it out of the fund appropriated for
carrying into effect the laws prohibiting the slave trade.
We are of opinion it ought to be certified to the Circuit
Court, that all the Africans captured in the Antelope, except those directed to be delivered to the Spanish claimants, should be decreed to be delivered to the United States,
absolutely and unconditionally, without the precedent payment of expenses.
as to
In that part of the case brought up by appeal, it is insist-_ Question
the apportionof- the
de- ment and
States, that so much of the entcosts
ed on behalf of the United
ex" ,,""
cree of the Circuit Court "as relates to the apportionment COnsesa
among the several parties of the costs and expenses in the
preservation, maintenance, and cust,,dy of the Africans,
and the costs and expenses of the various proceedings which
have been had in relation to said Africans," is-erroneous.
It is contended, that these costs and expenses were occasioned by the prosecution of a groundless claim by the Portuguese and Spanish claimants, and that they should have
been decreed to pay them.
It may well be doubted whether these questions are now
open to discussion. By a former order and decree of the
Circuit Court, made before the former appeals, the ordinary costs and charges were regulated, and they were paid accordingly; that order is not now before this Court in this
appeal. By the former decree of the Circuit Court, rendered before the former appeals, a principle w,is established
as to the ratio in which the Spanish and Portuguese claimants should be chargeable with the expenses of maintenance,
&c. The principle was, that they should be charged in the.
ratio of the number of Africans to be delivered to them
respectively.
There was no appeal from that part of the former decree
of the Circuit Court, or if there was, it was virtually affirmed by the former decree of this Court.
In the application of the principle to the case as it now

CASES IN THE SUPREME COUXRT,
1827.

stands, it seems to follow, necessarily, that as none of the
are to be delivered to the Portu6'iese claimant, he
should pay none of the expenses of keeping them, and
that the Spaniard should pay in the ratio of thirty-nine, the

SAfricans

The
Antelope.

number to be delivered to him. The condition of the Portuguese consul, too, is very peculiar. Under the circumstances in which these Africans- were captured, and brought
into the United States, it was his duty to interpose a claim
for part of them, on behalf of the subjects of his majesty
the King of Portugal. That claim was sustained in the
District and Circuit Courts, and the general propriety of
the claim was also recognised by the former decree of this
Court, but as no individual Portuguese claimant of the property appeared before the hearing of the appeal, the claim
of the Vice Consul of Portugal was dismissed on that
ground. It would be too much to visit him with the extraordinary expenses under such circumstances, and he has
heretofore paid his proportion of the ordinary expenses of
the suit.
We think there is no just ground of complaint on tie
part of the United States, that the Spanish claimants have
not been burdened with more.than a rateable proportion of
the expense of keeping the Africans.
Evideiuce stf- It only remains to be inquired, whether the Circuit Cburt
tifcen to ideI- erred in directing thirty-nne of the Africans to be delivercd
canis delivered to the Spanish claimants.
to the Spanish
It has been arigued, that there is no credible and compeclamants.
tent evidence to identify them, or any of them.
We are not of that opinion. We think, that under the
peculiar and special circumstances of the case, the evidence
of identity is competent, credible, and reasonably satisfactory, to identify the whole thirty-nine.
It ought not to be forgotten, that in the original cause it
had been established to the satisfaction of this Court, that
ninety-three of the Africans brought in with the Antelope,
were the property of the Spanish claimants; but, as many
of the Africans had died, it was the opinion of this Court,
that number should be reduced according to the whole number living. The Circuit Court, proceeding upon this prmdvple. fixed the whole number to which the Spanish clatm.

OF THE UNITED STATE'.

I '27.
ants were entitled at fifty, and then proceeded to inquire as
\.to their identity.
Grondona, who had been examined as a witness i the Athe
original cause, was second officer on bnard the Antelope
when the Spanish Africans were purchased, and put on
board the Antelope, on the coast of Aftrca.
It appears, that the Africans captured, and brought in
with the Antelope, were put into the pesses ,oy of Mr. William Richardson : and that he had abnut fifty oi thpm employed atwork upon the fortifications at Savannah -that while
there, Grondona came out. wilh the marshal for the purpose
of identifying the Spanish Africans, that the fift Africans
were drawn up in a line. that Grondona made -igns, and
spoke to the negroes, and they to him, and they generally
appeared to recognise him as an acqunintance On crossexamination, he says, he'canat say that eyery one of the
negroes recognised the sign made by th, perqoii accompanying the marshal to the fortificationss, but that they gene.
Lally did.
The Africans of the Antelope being paraded in front oi
the court house, Mr. Richardson was directed by the Court
to point out. and designate, individually, the Africans who
had worked on the fortifications. and he designated thirty.
four. It is proved'by Mr. Morel. the marshal, that 1 teadona recognised five others, who were with other persons,
and that they appeared to recognise Grondona as an acquain.
tanoe. These five are described by name, and pointed out
by other witnesses.
Before these proofs were taken in open Court, for the
purpose of identifying the Africans claimed by the Spaniards,
Grondona had disappeared, and it is suggested was dead.
He had, however, in his exammnation as a witness in chief
in the cause, shown, that he was an officer on boara, and
knew the Africans belonging to the Spanish claimants.
Grondona, and the Africans, both spoke languages not nn.
derstood by the witnesses , yet it could well be seen by ihen,;
that Grondona and the Africans knew and understood each
other; and Mr. Richardson swears, that many of 'hem aj,
peared to know him verv well, and lhat he claitnf d ther, .n
VoL. X!T
70

CASES IN THE SUPREME COJRT
part of the Africans originally put on board the Antelope by
1827.
.the Spanish owners.
We think this evidence was sufficientL under the very peAI'Lemore
V.

Powell.

culiar circumstances of this case, reasoiahly to satisfy the
mind of the identity of thirty-mne of the Africans as belonging to the Spanish claintants.
DECREE and CERTIFICATE. This cause came on, &c,
On consideration whereof, this Court is of opinion, that
there is no error in the decree of the Circuit Court so far
as the same proceeds, and that it be AFFIRMED, and upon
the question on which the judges of the Circuit Court were
divided in opinion, it is the opinion of this Court, that all
the Africans. not to be delivered to the Spanish claimants,
ought to be decreed .to be delivered to the United States.
unconditionally, and without the preccdent payment of expenses,. to be b)themi disposed of according to law.

.orEXcANGE.
,BILL

SURETY.,

A'L.NionE, Plaintiff in Error, against POWELL and other:.
Defendants in Error.
An agreement between the creditor and principal debtor for delay.
or otherwise changing the nature of the contract to the prejudicv
of the surety, in order to discharge the latter, must be an agreement
having a sufficient consideration, and binding in law upon the par-

ties.
mere agreement by the holder of a bill with the drau er fbr delay.
without any consideration for it, and without any communication
with or assent of the endorser, nill not discharge the latter, aftei
lie has been fixed in his responsibility by the refusal of the drawee
and due notice to himself.
A~t.
5th.

THIS cause was argued by Mr. White and Mr. Eaton foi
the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. Webster and Mr. Bli-s for
,he defendants in error

