4W)
182 7 .
Nav

CA9ES TIN THE SUPREME COURT
timore, be REVERSED and ANNULLED, and that the cause be
remanded to the said Court of Appeals, with directions to

U.States reverse the same;
V.
Giooding.
4

rSLAvE TsAr

Acss. EvIDENcE.

PLrADrG.j

The UNITED STATES against GooDxv-o.
Upon an indictment under the Slave Trade Act of the 2oth ol
'April, 1818, ch. 878. against the owner of the ship, testimony
of the declarations of the master, being a part of the res gesta,
connected with acts m surtherance of the voyage, aild within the
scope of his authority, as agent of the owner, in the conduct of
the guilty enterprise, is admissible in evidence against the owner.
'Upon such an indictment against the owner, charging him with fitting out the ship with intent to employ her in the illegal" voyage,
evidence is admissible that he commanded, authorized, anj super.
intended the fitnent, through the instrumentality of his agents,
without being personally present.
It is not essential to constitute a fitting out, under the acts of Congress, that dvery equipment necessary for a slave voyage, or any
equipment peculiarly adapted to such a voyage, should be taken
on board; it is sufficient if the vessel is actually fitted out with intent to be employed in the illegal voyage.
not necessary to specify the particulars
In such an indictment, it isof the fitting out; it is sufficient to allege the offence in the words
of the statute.
Nor s it necessary that there should be any principal offender ta
whom the defendant might be aiding andabetting. These terms
in the statute do not refer ;o the relation of principal and accessory in cases of felony; both the actor, and he who aids and abets
the act, are considered as principals.
It is necessary that the indictment should aver, that the vessel was
built, fitted out, &- or caused to sail, or be sent away, Withm the
juWisdictionof the United States.
An averment that the ship was fitted out, &c. " with intent that the
said vessel shold be employed" in the slave trade,js fatally defecive, the words of the statute being, "with intent to empoky"-the
vessel in the slave trade, and exclusively refernng to the intent of

the party eausng the act.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
18%7.
Objections to the form and sufficiency of the indictment may, in the
discretion of the Court, be discussed, and decided dunng the trial
before the jury , but, generally speaking, they ought regularly to U. States
v.
be considered only upon a motion to quash the indictment, or m
Gooding.
arrest of judgment, or on demurrer.
In criminal proceedings, the onus probandi rests upon the prosecutor, unless a different provision is expressly made by statute.

THIS was a prosecution in the Circuit'Cpurt of Maryland, against the defendant, Gooding, under the Slave Trade
Act of the 20th of April, 1818, ch. 373. The indictment
alleged, (1.) that the said Gooding, being a citizen of the
United States, after the passing of the act of the Congress
of the United States, entitled, - An act in addition to an
act to prohibit the introduction of slaves into any port or
place within thejurisdiction of the United States, from and
after the first day of January, in the year of our Lord 1808,
and to repeal certain parts of the same," that is to say, after
the 20th of April, 1818, to wit, on the thirtieth day of Sep.
tember, in the year 1824, at the District of Maryland, did
Ifit out for himself, as owner, in the port of Baltimore, within
the jurisdiction of the United States, and within the jurisdiction of this Court, a certain vessel called the General
Winder, with intent to employ the said vessel, the General
Winder, in procuring negroes from a foreign country, to
wit, from the continent of Africa, to be transported to another place, to wit, to the island of Cuba, in the West Indies,
to be sold as slaves, contrary to the true intent and meaning
of the act of Congress in such case made and provided, to.
the evil example of all others in like case offending, and
against the peace, government, and dignity of the said Uni.
ted States.
2. That the said Gooding, a citizen of the said United
States, and residing therein, to wit, at the district aforesaid,
after the passing of the act of Congress aforesaid, to wit, oi
the day and year last aforesaid, within the jurisdiction of
this Court, at the district aforesaid, did, for himself, as owner,
send away from the port of Baltimore, within the jurisdiction of the United States, a certain other vessel, called the
General Winder, with intent to employ the said vessel, the,
' .neral Winder. in procniring negroes from a foreign cout-

462
1827.
%
U.States
V.
Gooding.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
try, to wit, from the continent of Africa, to be transported
to another place, to wit, to the island of Cuba, to be sold as
slaves, contrary to the true intent and meaning of the act of
Congress insuch case made and provided,to the evil example of all others in like case offending, and against the peace,
government, and dignity of the United States.
3. That the said Gooding, a citizen of the said United
States, and residing therein, afier the passing of the act of
Congress aforesaid, to wit, on the day and year last aforesaid, at the district aforesaid, and within the jurisdiction of
this Court, did aid in fitting out, for himself, as owner, in
the port of Baltimore, within the jurisdiction of the United
States, to wit, at the District aforesaid, a certain other vessel,
called the General Winder, with intent that the said vessel,
the General Winder, should be employed in procur'ng negroes from a foreign country, to wit, from the contiLent of
Africa, to be transported to another place, to wit, to the
island of Cuba, to be sold as slaves, contrary to the true intent and meaning of the act of Congress in such case made
and provided, to the evil example of all others in like case
offending, and against the peace, government, and dignity of
the said United States.
4. That the.saa tooding, a citizen of the said United
States, and residing therein, after the passing of the act of
Congress aforesaid, to wit, on the day and year last aforesaid, at the District aforesaid, aid within the jurisdiction of
this Court, did abet the taking.on board, from one of the
coasts of Africa, divers negroes, to wit, 290, not being inhabitants, nor held to service by the laws of either of the
States or territories of the United States, of a certain other
vessel, called the General Winder, for the purpose of selling Auch negroes as slaves, contrary to the true intent and
meaning of the.act of Congress in such case made.and provided, to the evil example of all others io like case offending, and against the peace, government, and dignity of the
said United States.
5. That the said Gooding, a citizen of the United States,
and residing therein after the passing of the act of Congress
aforesaid, to wit, on the day and year last aforesaid, at the
Districtaforesaid. and within the jurisdiction of this Court.

OF THE UNITED STAT&S ,

465

did, for himself, as owner, cause to sail from the port of 1827.
Baltimore, within the jurisdiction of the United States, a
certain other vessel called the General Winder, with in- U.States
tent that the said vessel, the General Winder, should be Gooding.
employed in procuring negroes from a foreign country, to
wit, from the continent of Africa, to be transported to another place, to wit, to the island of Cuba, to be sold as slaves
contrary to the true intent Rvd meaning of the act of Cbn
gress in such case made and provided, to the evil example
of all others in like case offending, and against the peace,
government, and dignity of the sa.d United States.
6. That the said Gooding, a citizen of the United States.
and residing therein, after the passing of the act of Congress
aforesaid, to wit, an the day and year last aforesaid, at the
district aforesaid, add within the jurisdiction of this Court,
did, for himself, as owner, cause to be sent away from the
port of Baltimore, within the jurisdiction of the United
States, a certain other vessel, called the General Winder,
with intent that tj2isaut yessel, the General Winder, should
be employed in procurtog -negroes from a foreign country,
to wit, from the continebt of Africa, to be transported to a
certain otherplace, to wit, to the island of Cuba, to be sold
as slaves, contrary to the true intent andmeaning of the ict
of Congress, in such case made and provided, to the evil example of all others in like case offending, A I against the
peace, government, and dignity of the said Uhited Stktes.
7. That the said Gooding, a citizen of the United States
and residing therein, after the passing of the act of Congress
aforesaid, to wit, on the day and year last aforesaid, at the
District aforesaid, and within the jurisdiction of this Cou t.
did, for himself as owner, or for other persons, as factor, fit
out, equip, load, or otherwise prepare, a certain other ship
or vessel called the General Winder, in the port of Baltimore, within the jurisdiction of the United States, to wit, at
the District aforesajd, or did cause the same ship.or vessel.
the General Winder, to be so fitted out, equipped, loaded.
or otherwise prepared, with intent that the said ship orvessel, the General Winder, should be employed in procuring
negroes, mulattoes, or persons of colour, from a foreign
kingdom. place or country, to wit, from the continent of Af-- q. tn be frapsported to a other pnrf or place. fn wit.

464

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

the island of Cuba, in the West Indies, to be there sold, or
disposed of as slaves, or held to labour or service,
U.States contrary to the true intent and meaning of the act of Con'V.
Gooding. gress, in such case made and provided, to the evil example
.of all others in like case offending, and against the peace,
government and dignity of the said United States.
At the trial in the Circuit Court, the United States offered
evidence that the defendant purchased of one MbElderry the
vessel called the General Winder, in the indictment mentioned, and that said vessel was built in the port of Baltimore, also in the said indictment mentioned. They further
offered in evidence, that at the time said purchase was made,
the said vessel was not completely finished, and that the
same was finished under the superintendence of a certain
Captain John Hill, who was appointed by the defendant
master of said vessel on her then intended voyage. They
also oflered in evidence, that the defendant was, at the time
when the offence laid in the indictment is charged to have
been committed, and at the time of his purchase of the said
vessel, and ever since has been, a citizen of the United
States, and has constantly, from the time of the purchase of
the said.vessel, till the present period, been an actual residnt of the said port of Baltimore.
They fuither offered evidence, that after the said purchase,.and after the appointment of the said captain Hill as
waster as aforesaid, the said Hill ordered various fitments
for the said vessel at the said port of Baltimore, which said
fitments were furnished for said vessel, and afterwards, on the
order of said Hill, were paid ior by the defendant. They
also offered in evidence, that some of these fitments were
peculiarly adapted for the slave trade, and are never put on
board any other vessels than those intended for such trade;
a part of such fitments so ordered by captain Hill and paid
for by the defendant, to wit, three dozen of brooms,
eighteen scrapers, and two. trumpets, were actually put on
board the General Winder in the port of Baltimore, the residue of the equipments on board the General Winder at the
time of her departure, being such as are usual on. board vessels carrying on trade between said port and the West Indies.
And the rest of such fitments. peculiar to the slave trade as
1827.

Sotherwise

OF THE UNITED STA'rES.
aforesaid, were shipped at the said port of Baltimore, on
1827.
board another vessel called the Pocahontas, chartered by
the defendant : That the said vessel called the General U. States
V.
Winder, sailed from the port of Baltimore, fitted as aforesaid, Gooding.
and with the said Hill as master, on or about the twentyfirst da) of August, eighteen hundred and twenty-four, having
cleared for the island of St. Thomas in the West Indies.
That the other vessel called the Pocahontas also sailed for
St. Thomas'from the port of.Baltimore, with the part of the
said fitments put on, board her as before mentioned, some
time in the month of September following. They also gave
evidence that both the said vessels, the General Winder and
the Pocahontas, afterwards arrived at St. Thomas, and that
at that island the said peculiar fitments shipped as aforesaid
in the Pocahontas, were there transhipped from said vessel
to the General Winder, the said Hill still being the master
of the said last mentioned vessel. They also further offered
in evidence, that the defendant, about gix or seven months
after the sailing of the General Winder from the said port of
Baltimore, declared in the presence of a competent witness,
that the General Winder had made him a good voyage, hiving arrived with a cargo of slaves, the witness thought he
said 290, and that he also declared in the presence of the
same witness at another time, that he, the defendant, was
the sole owner of the said vessel, called the General Winder.
They also offered in evidence by another witness, that the
defendant had at another time declared in the presence of
this other witness, that the said witness, who was a creditor
of the defendant, shuuld be paid one half his debt on the arrival of the General Winder at Trinidad de Cuba. The
United States, further to support the said indictment, offered to give in evidence to the jury, by a certain Captain
Peter L. Coit, that he, Captain Coit, was at St. Thomas
while the General Winder was at that island, as before stated, in September, 1824, and that he was frequently on
board the said vessel at that time at St. Thomas, that the
said Captain Hill, the said master of the General Winder.
then and there proposed to the said witness, Captain Coit.
to engage on board the General Winder as mate for the voy59
Vnr.. XII.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827. age then in progress, and described the same to be avoyag(:
.'-.to the coast of Africa for slaves, and thence back to TriniU. States
dad de Cuba. That he offered to the said witness 70 dollars
V.
Gooding. per month, and five dollars per head for every prime slave
which should be broulght to Cuba. That on the witness inquring who would see the crew paid in the event of a disaster attending the voyage, Captain Hill replied, "uncle
John," meaning, (as witness understood,) John Gooding thn
defendant.
The defendant's counsel objected to the admissibility ol
this evidence, and the judges divided in opinion upon its
admissibility. They also moved the Court for its opinion
upon the following points:
1. That on the charges contained in the lst, 2d, 3d, Sth
and 6th counts in the indictment, it is incumbent on the
United States to prove that the vessel, named or mentioned
in the indictment; was fitted out, sent away, caused to sail,
or caused to he sent away, with intent to transport negroes
from the coast of Africa to the island of Cuba.
2. That evidence, that the defendant caused the vessel in
question to be fitted out by Captain John Hill, or any one
else, will not support the fii'st count in the indictment, its
which he is charged with fitting her out himself.
3. That the first count charges a fitting out in the port of
Baltimore, which, according to the true legal interpretation
of the words in an indictment, means a complete equipnent; and that evidence of a partial preparation here, and
a further equipment at St..Thomas, will not support the
charge contained in this count.
4. That the defendant cannot be convicted on the first
count, because no offence is legally charged in the said
count, it being necessary to specify the particular equipments in the indictment, in order that the defendant may
have notice of the particular charge against him.
5. That the defendant cAnnotbe convicted upon the third
and fourth counts, because these counts do not charge any
offence to have been committed by any principal, to whom
the defendant was or could be aiding or abetting; also, that
he cannot be convicted upon the fourth count, unless hewas
actually or constructively present when the negroes were
'

OF' THIE UNITED STIATEq;S.

467

.-dzeu un board on the coast of Af'ica, and if the defendant 1827.
was in Baltimore at the time the said negroes were taken .
.on board on the coast of Africa, he could not aid or abet U. States
V
within the meaning of the fourth section of the act of Con- Gooding.
gress of 2o0th of April, 1818, upon which he was indicted.
6. That the defendant cannot be convicted on the second,
fifth and sixth counts in the indictment, because no legal
offence is charged in either of these counts, the said counts
not charging that the General Winder was built, fitted,
equipped, loaded, or otherwise prepared, within the jurisdiction of the United States; and that the said fifth and sixth
counts are also defective in charging the defendant with intent that the vessel should be employed in the slave trade,
instead of charging him with intent to employ her.
7. That the defendant cannot be convicted on the third,
fourth, fifth, and sixth counts, unless there be a previous
conviction of the principal in the offence, in the said counts
mentioned.
The opinions of the judges being divided upon these
points, and also upon the question of allowing objections to,
the-form and sufficiency of the indictment to be discussed at
the trial before the jury, the questions were certified to this
Court for final determination.
The cause was argued by the Attorney General and Mr. March, I-ll
Mr. ad 13th.
Coxe for the United States, and by Mr. Taney and
,itchell for the defeadant.
March 1oth.
Mr. Justice bTQRY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is the case of an indictment against Gooding for
being engaged in the slave trade, contrary to the prohibitions
of the act of Congress of the 20th of April, 1818. It comes
before us upon a certificate of division of opinions in the
Circuit Court of the District of Maryland, upon certain
points raised at the trial. We take this opportunity of expressing our anxiety, least, by too great indulgence to the
wishes of counsel, questions of this sort should be frequently
brought before this Court, and thus, in effect, an appeal in

468

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURt

1827. criminal cases become an ordinary proceeding to the maniffest obstruction of public justice. and against the plain in*
U.States tendment of the acts of Congress. Cases of real doubt
V.
Gooding. and difficulty, or of extensive consequence as to principle
and application, and furnishing matter for very grave deliberation, are those alone which can be reasonably presumed to have been within the purview of the legislature in
allowing an appeal to this Court upon certificates of division. In this very case, some of the questions certified may
have been argued and decided in the Court below upon the
Motion to quash the indictment, and there are others upon
which it is understood, that the Circuit Court had no opportunity of passing a deliberate judgment.
The first question that arises * ui.ou the division of opi..
Admissibility
of the testirno- nmons whether. under the circumstances of the case, the tesIy
of Coji. timony of Captain Colt to the facts stated in the record.
was admissible. That testimony was to the following
effect: that he, Captain Coit, was at St. Thomas while the
General Winder was at that island in September, 1824, and
was frequently on board the vessel at that time, that Captain Hill, the master of the vessel, then and there proposed
to the witness to engage on board the General Winder as
mate for the voyage then in progress, and described the
same to be a voyage to the coast of Africa, for slaves, and
thence back to Trinidad de Cuba ; that he offered to the
witness seventy dollars per month, and five dollars per head
for every prime slave which should be brought to Cuba.
that on the witness inquiring who would see the crew paid
in the event of a disaster attending the voyage, Captain
Hill replied, "Uncle John," meaning (as the witness understood) John Gooding, the defendant.
It is to be observed, that, as preliminary to the admission
of this testimony, evidence had been offered to prove that
Gooding was owner of the vessel, that he lived at Baltimore, where she was fitted out, and that he appointed Hill
master, and gave him authority to make the fitments for the
voyage,and paid the bills therefor, that certain equipments
were put on board peculiarly adapted for the slave trade,
and that Gooding had made declarations that the vessel had
Ireen engaged in the slave trade, and had made him a good

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1827
voyage. The foundation of the authority of the master,
the nature of the fitments, and the object and accomplish- ,
ment of the voyage, being thus laid, the testimony ofCap- U. States
V.
tam Coit was offered as confirbiatory of the proof, and pro- Gooding.
perly admissible against the defendant. It was objected to,
and now stands upon the objection before us. The argument is, that the testimony is not admissible, because, in
criminal cases, the declarations of the master of the vessel
are not evidence to charge the owner with an offence ; and
that the doctrine of the binding effect of such declarations
by known agents, is, and ought to be, confined to civil cases.
of
We cannot yield to the force of the argument. In generalI Testimony
the declarathe rules of evidence in criminal and civil -cases are the tions of the
part ofbeing
the
same. Whatever the agent does, within the scope of his amaster,
authority, binds his principal, and is deemed his act. It I's ges1,, admust, indeed, be shown, that the agent has the authority, against tue deand that the act is within its scope, but these being con- fendant.
ceded, or proved, either by the course of busines§, or by express authorization, the same conclusion arises, in point of
law, in both cases. Nor is there any authority for confining
the rule to civil cases. On the contrary, it is the known
and f6miliar principle of criminal jurisprudence, that he
who commands, or procures a crime to be done, if it is done,
is guilty of the crime, and the act is his act. This -is so
true, that even the agent may be innocent, when the procurer or principal may be convicted of guilt, as in the case
of infants, or idiots, employed to administer poison. The
proof of the command, or procurement, may be direct or
indirect, poiitive or circumstantial; but this is matter for
the consideration of the jury, and n9t of legal c9mpetency.
So, in cases of conspiracy and riot, when once the conspiracy or combination is eitablished, the act of one conspirator,
in the prosecution of the enterprise, is considered the act
of all, and is evidence against all. 'Each is deemed to consent to, or command. what is done by any other in furtherance of the common object. Upon the facts of the present case, the master was just as much a guilty principal as
the owner, ana just as much within the purview of the act
by the illegal fitment.
The evidence here offered -;,. a not the mere declarations

CASES IN THE SUPREME COUWF'

1827. of the master upon other occasions totally disconnected
k
with the objects of the voyage. These declarations were
U. States connected with acts in furtherance of the objects of thb
V.
Gooding. voyage, and within the general scope of his authority as
conductor of the enterprise He had an implied authority
to hire a crew, and db other acts necessary for the voyage.
The testimony went to establish, that he endeavoured to
engage Captain Coit to go as mate for the voyage then in
progre.ss, and his declarations were all made with reference
to that object, and as persuasives to the undertaking. They
were, therefore, in the strictest sense, a part of the res
gestc, the necessary explanations attending the attempt to
hire. If he had hired a mate, the terms of the hiring, though
verbal, would have been part of the act, and the nature of
the voyage, as explained at the time, a necessary ingrcdient. The act would have been so combined with the
declarations, as to be inseparable without injustice. The
same authority from the owner which allows the master to
hire the crew, justifies him in making such declarations and
explanations as are proper to attain the object. Those declarations and explanations are as much within the scope of
the authority as the act of hiring itself. Our opinion of
the admissibility of this evidence proceeds upon the ground
that these were not the naked declarations of the master,
unaccompanied with his acts in that capacity, but declararatibns coupled with proceedings for the objects of the voy.
age, and while it was in proge-s. We give no opinion upon
the point whether mere declarations, under other circum.
The principle
stances, would have been admissible.
which we maintain is stated with great clearness by Mr.
Starkse, in his Treatise on Evidence. "(2 Stark. Erid.part
4. p. 60.) "Where," says he, "the fact of agency has
been proved, either expressly or presumptively, the act of
the agent, co-extensive with the authority, is the act of the
principal, whose mere instrument he is, and then, whatever
the agent says within the scope of his authority, the principal says, and evidence may be given of such acts. and declarations as if they had been actually done and made by.the
principal himself."
a See also - Stark. Ertd. part 4. p. 4o, 404.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1827.
The other questions arise from the instructions or opinions prayed for by the defendant at the trial upon matters ,
of law, upon which, also, the judges were divided in opinion. U.States
V.
The first instruction prayed puts the point, whether the Gooding.
burthen of proof of the offences charged in the indictment First tosrrcOid not rest upon the United States. Without question it tion prayed,as
te
,bt
Milte
does in all cases where a party stands charged with an of- proband"
fence, unless a different provision is made by some statute;
for the general rule of our jurispradence is, that the party
accused need not establish his innocence, but it is for the
government itself to prove his guilt before it, is entitled to a
verdict or conviction. This question has been abandoned at
"the argument here, and is too plain for controversy, since
there is no.statuteable provision altering the general principle in this particular.
The second instruction is conceived in very general Second toif it is tucion.
terms, so general, indeed, that it cannot be supported
to be minderstood in its obvious sense. It asks the Court to
instruct the jury that evidence that the defendant caused the
vessel to be fitted out by Captain Hill, or any one else, will
not support the first count in the indictment, in which the
defendant is charged with fitting her out himself. This obviously covers the case where the fitting out is by the instrumentality of any other persons, however innocent of his design, even though the defendant himself should be personally
present, either really or constructively, and superintending
the whole operations. To this extent it is clearly unmaintamable. But, in a -more restrictive sense, it' involves the
question, whether evidence, that the owner commanded,
authorized and superintended the fitment through his agents,
without 'his personal presence, would support this count.
We are of opinion in the affirmative. The act,of Congress
does riot require that the fitting out should be by the owner
personally, witiout the assistance or agency of others. The
act itself is of a nature which forbids such a supposition.
The fitment of a vessel is ordinarily, and, indeed, must bedone through the instrumentality of others. It is not a single
act, but a series of subordinate operations, requiring the cooperation of persons in various trades and arts, all conducing
to the same end. It would be against the plain sense of th,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827,

legislature, to interpret its language to mean thatethe act
it punishes, and which must or may be done by many
in the ordinary course of business, shall only be punishable

Swhich

U. States
V.

Gooding

when the extraordinary fact occurs of its being done by one
person. If done by others under the command and direction
of the owner, with his approbation and for his benefit, it is
just as much in contemplation of law his own act, as if done by
lumself. To this extent, at least, the maxim may be safely
applied, jutfacitperalium,facitperse. And itcannotbe material whether it be done in his absence from, or his presence
in, the scene. Especially there can be no doubt that the princi:
pie ought' to be applied with increased force, where the
owner resides at the same port, or neighbourhood, and superintends the course of the operations, even if he does not
see them. Even in the highest crimes, those who are present, aiding and commanding, or abetting, are deemed principals; and, if absent, in treason and in misdemeanours.
they are still deemed principals ; though it may be necessary, in treason, to lay the overt acts precisely according to'
the fact, from considerations peculiar to that offence. This
instruction ought, therefore, to have been refused.
'hird Instruc- The third instruction turns upon the point, whether the
.lio..
fitting out, in the sense of the act of Congress, means a complete equipment, so that a partial equipment only will exTlot essential tract the case from the prohibitions of the statute. This obyhat the equip- eu
iwent shouzdjecon appears to us to proceed from a mistaken view of the
be complete to facts applicable to the case. If the vessel actually sailed on
constitute a
fitting out un- her voyage from Baltimore for the purpos of employment
der the "ia-in the slave trade, her fitment was complete for all the purpotute.

ses of the act. Itis by no means necessary, that every equipment for a slave voyage should have been taken on board at
Baltimore.; or, indeed, that any equipments exclusively applicable to such a voyage,.should have been on board. The
presence of such equipments may furnish strong presumptive proof of the object of the voyage, but they do not constitute the offence. The statute punishes the fitting out of
a vessel with intent'to employ her in the slave trade, however innocent the equipment may be, when designed for a
lawful voyage. It is the act combined with the intent, and
not either sepagratelv. which is punishable.. Whether thf-

OF THE UNITED STALTES.

473

1827.
fitting out be fully adequate for the purposes of a slave voyage may, As matter of presumption, be more or less concluV.
sive; but if the intent of the fitment be to carry on a slave U. States
voyage, and the vessel depart on the voyage, her fitting out Gooding.
is complete, so far as the parties deem it necessary for their
object,, and the statute reaches the case.
But we are also of opinion, that any preparations for a
slave voyage'which clearly manifest or accompany the illegal intent, even though incomplete and imperfect, and before the departure of the vessel from port, do yet constitute
a fitting out within the purview of the statute. This was
held by this Court upon full consideration in the cases of
the Emi y and Caroline, (9 Wheat. Rep. 381.) and the Plattsburg, (10 Wheat. Rep. 133.) Those cases, indeed, arose
upon the construction of the slave trade atts of 1794, 1800
and 1807'; but the language of those acts is almost literally
transcribed into the-statute of 1818, and the construction
adopted therein must govern the present 4ase. In either
view, therefore, our answer to the third prayer is, that a
complete equipment is not necessary to be proved, but any
partial preparation, which demonstrates or accompanies the
illegal intent, will bring the case within the statute, and support the charge in the first count of the indictment.
The fourth instruction respectsthe sufficiency of the aver- Fourth in.

ments of the first count ; and it is contended that there ought struction.

to have been a specification of the particulars of the fitting
out, and that it is not sufficient to allege the act itself without
them. The indictment, in this respect, follows th'e lan- Not necessary
alleFe the
guage of the statute, and is as certain as that is. We cannot to
particulars
of
out.
perceive any good reason for holding the government to any the fitting
greater certainty in the averments of the indictment. The
fitting out Qf a vessel may, and must, consist of a variety of
minute acts and preparations, almost infinite in their detail,
and the enumeration would answer no valuable purpose to
the defendant to assist him in hia'defence, and subserve no
public policy. Ihe fitting out of'a vessel is a sort of busiiless, which is as clear and defnite as any other, and we
might just as well-in an indictment upon the act for building
a ship with the illegal intent, require that the government
IroL. XIL
60

474

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

should particularize the acts of building through their whole
Sdetails, as those of equipment. The building of a ship is
U. States not an act more certain in its nature thati the fitting out of a
V.
Gooding. ship. The particular preparations are matters of evidence,
and not ofaverment. Every mar, mav well be presumed to
-know what are the fitments of a vessel for a voyage, without
more particularity. The objection proceeds upon the supposition, that ordinary equipme ts only, though combined
with the illegal intent, are not within the act; and that extraordinary equipments only for such a,voyage are provided
for. This has been already shown tobe an incorrect exposition of the statute. It imputes no gilt to any particulars
of the equipment, but to the act combbhed with the illegal
Sitent.
it may be said, that it is stifficient certainty in
In general,
General rule,
that it is suffieient to allegr in an indictment to allege the offence in the very terms of
the offence In the statuite. We say, in general, for there *re doubtless cases
the words of
statute, where more particularity is required, either from the obthe
subject to exvious intention of the legislature, or from the application of
ceptions.
known principles of law. At the common law, in certain
descriptions of offences, and especially of capital offences,
great nicety and, particularity are often .necessary. The
rules which regulate this branch of pleading were sometimes
founded in considerations which no longer exist either in
our own or in English jurisprudence , tut a rule, beingonce
estiblished, it still prevails, although if the case were new,.
it might not now be 'incorporated intn the law. So, again,
in.certain. classes of statutes, the rule of very strict certainty
has sometimes been applied where the common law furmished a close and appropriate analogy. Such are the cases of
indictments for false pretences, and sending threatening letters, where the pretences and the letters are required to be
set forth from the close analogy to indidtments for perjury
and forgery. Courts of law have thought such certainty not
unreasonable or inconvenient, and calculated to put the plea
of autrefois acquit, or convict, as well as of general defence
at the trial, fairly within the power of the prisoner. But
these instances are by no means c6nsidered as leading to the
establishment of any general rule. On the contrary, the
;.ourst. has been to leave every class of cases to be decided
1827.

OP THE UNITED STATE.-

vey much upon its own peculiar circumstances. Thus, in 1827.
,cases of conspiracy, it has never been held necessary to set %
forth the overt acts or means, though these might materially U. States
V.
assist the prisoner's defence. So. in cases of solicitation to Gooding.
commit crimes, it has beeni held sufficient to state the act of
solicitation, without ny averment of the special means.
And in endeavours to commit a revolt, which is by statute
in England made a capital offence, it has always been deemed sufficient to allege the offence in the words of the jtatate,
without setting forth any particulars of the manner or the
means. These cusem appruach very near to the present;
and if any, by way of precedent, ought to govern it, they
well may govern it. The case of treason stands upon a peculiar ground ; there the overt acts must, by 'Statute, be
specially laid in the indictment, and must be proved as laid.
The very act, and mode of the act, must, therefore, be laid
as it is intended to be proved. If the party be only constructively a principal, as an absent and distant coadjutor
or Itader, it may be necessary to aver the fact accordingly.
There is great good sens6 in the rule which has been. laid
down, that where the offence)is made up of a number of minute acts, which cannot be emumerated upon the record
without great prolixity and inconvenience, and the danger of
variance, they ought to be dispensed with. The present
case is a fit illustration of the rule; the fitting out is a compound of various minute acts, almost incapable of exact
specification.
The fifth instruction turns upon a doctrine applicable to Firth instru..
principal and accessory in cases of felony, either at the corn- !on.
doctrile
mon law or by statute. The present is the case of a misde-"wv The
to principal
meanour, and. the doctrine, therefore, cannot be applied toand accessory,
felonies, no.to
it; for in cases of misdemeanours, all those who are con- iapplicable
cerned in aiding and abetting, .as well as in perpetrating the the presi'.t
act, are principals. Under.such circumstances there is no ca,
room for the question of actual or constructive presence or
absence ; for whether present or absent. all are principals:
They may be indicted aid punished accordingly. Nor is
the trial or conviction of an actor indispensable to furnish a
right to try the person who aids or abets the act; each in
the eye of the law is deemed guilty as a principal. lit t~e

GASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
182-7.
o
U. States
V.
Godig.

present indictment, the offence is in the third and fourth
counts laid by aiding and abetting, in the very terms of the
act of Congress. Jf the crime, therefore, could be supposed to be of an accessorial nature, it is truly alleged, according to the fact, and not merely according to the intendment
of Jaw. We do not consider that the terms "aid" and
"abet," used in this statute, are used as technical phrases
belonging to the common liw, because the offence is not
made a felony, and, therefore, the words require no such
interpretation. The statute ppnishes them as substantive
offences, and not as accessorial, and the words are, therefore, to be sjeitood as in the common parlance, and
import assistance, co-operation, and encouragement. These
Seventh in- remarks furnish an answer to the seventh instruction, wlnch
etruction.
must share the fate of the fifth.
sixth Instruc- The sixth instruction is that which has presented the
'.ol.
most difficulty. It embraces two propositions; the first is,
that the srcond, fifth, and sixth counts in the indictment.
ought to have contained an averment that the vessel was
built, fitted 'out, &c. within the juri.diction of the United
States, the second is, that the fifth and sixth counts do not
allege the offence in thewords of the statute, those words being,
"rnit/dntnt OnemP~oS the v essePljn the slave trade, &c. whereas each of these counts avers, "with intent that the saidvessel
,touild
be emplyed in the slave trade, which imports a very
different state of facts. In order to understand these exceptions, it is necessary to attend carefully to the very words
of the act of Congress. The second section enacts, If that
no citizen or citizens, &c. shall, after the passing of this act
as aforesaid, for himself, themselves, or any other person or
persons whatsoever, either as master, factor, or owner,
build, fit, equip, load, or otherwise prepare, any ship or yes.
el, n any port or place within the jurisdiction of the United States, nor cause any such ship or vessel to sail from any
port or place whatsoever within thejurisdiction of the same,
for the purpose ofprocuring any negroes, &c. to be transported, &c. as slaves." The third section enacts, "that every
person or persons so building, fitting out, equipping, load.
ing, or otherwise preparing, or sending away, or causing
any of the acts aforesaid to be done, with intent to employ

OF THE UNITED STA''EL4,

47'7

sac s ship or vessel in such trade or business, after the pass- 1827.
/
ing of this act, contrary to the true intent and meaning ,. *
thereof, or who shall in any wise be aiding or abetting there- U. States
in, shall severally, on conviction thereof by due course of Gooding.
law, forfeit," &c.'&c. The first point turns upon the inter- Necessary to
the
aver that was
pretation of the words "such ship or vessel,V' in each of Vesel
atted
these sections. To what do they refer-? The only ship or built,
&c. withvessel spoken of in either section, is such as have been out,
in theJurisdicbuilt, fitted out, &c. in some port or place of the United ton of the
States. '"Such ship or vessel" must, therefore, refer to a United States.
ship or vessel so built, fitted out, &c. as its antecedent, or
the relative " such" can have no meaning at all. The
word is sensible in the place where it occurs, and it is the
duty of the Court, when it can, to give effect to every word
in every enactment, if it can be done without violating the
obvious intention of the, legislature. This is a penal act,
and is to be construed strictly, that is, with no intendment
or eytension beyond the import of the words used. There
is no certainty that the legislature meant to prohibit the
sailing of any vessel on a slave voyage, which had not beiu
built, fitted out, &c. within the jurisdiction of the United
States. If a.foreign vessel, designed for the slave trade, and
fully fitted out for that purpose, were, by accident ordesign.
to anchor in our ports, it would not be reasonable to suppose
that the legislature could have intended the sailing of suh
a vessel from our ports to be an offence within the purview
of our laws. Yet, if the construction contended for on behalf of the United States be adopted, that would be the result.
But it is sufficient to say, that the word " such has air
appropriate sense, and can be reasonably referred only to
the ship or vessel previously spoken of; and such ship or,
vessel is not merely one built, fitted out, &c. but one built.
fitted out, &c. in a port or place within the United States.
The whole description must be taken together. If we were
to adopt any other c6nstruction, we should read the words
as if "such" were struck out, and the clause stood, " any
ship or vessel." Such a course would not be defensible in
cQnstruing a penal statute. It is remarkable, that in the
Slave Trade Acts of 1794, (2 U. 8.Z. 383.) and of 1807.

UASES IN THE SUPREME COURWI

(4 U. S. L. 94.) the word " such"'is omitted', and seems to
1827.
have been introduced into the act of 1818, ex rndustrza.
U. States We must take the law as we find it, and, upon examination
V.
Gooding. of its language, we are of opinion, that this exception is
well taken. The cases of the United States v. Lacoste,
(2 Mason's Rep. 129.) and The United States v Smith,
(2 .Mason's Rep. 143.) have been cited at the bar as containing'a different opinion expressed in the Circuit Court
in Massachusetts. I owe it in candour to acknowledge,
that the fact is so; but I have no recollection that the point
was made at the argument. and I am confident that it never
was insisted upon in the view which has been presented by
the argument in this Court. My own error, however, can
furnish no ground for its being adopted by this Court, in
whose name I speak on the present occasion.
a- . The other point is equally fatal. There is a clear dis-4
Defective that
verment
the vessel was tinction between causing a vessel to sail, or to be sentaway
caused to sail. with intent to employ her in the slave trade, and with inor be sent
away, "with tent that she should be employed in that trade. The forintet that the
vessel mer applies to an intent of the party causing the act, the
said
Mould,,be- latter to the employment of the vessel, whether by himself
or a stranger. The evidence may fully support these counts,
slavetrade.
and yet may not constitute an offence within the act of
Congress, for the employment by a mere stranger would
not justify ,he conviction of the party charged with causing
her to sail, or to be. sent away, with intent to employ her in
the slave trade, as owner. There is no reason, in criminal
cases, why the Court should help any such defective allegatibns. The words of the statute should be pursued..
" only" to consider the point, whether these obto It.- remains
"
Objections
form anld
the
tsfceumy ofjections to the slificiency of the indictment could be prothe indictment, perly taken at this stage of the proceedings.

Undoubtedly,

may, in the
discretion of according to the regular course. of practice, objections to
the
Court,du"-e1form
and sufficiency of an indictment ought to be disz
At,
discussed

ring the trial, cussed upon a motion to quash the indictment, which may
they ou'ht t be granted or refused in -the discietion of the Court, or
be ons.oered upon demurrer-to the indictment, or upon a motion in arrest
upon a mottinn
has
to quash the
or ofjudgment, which are' matters of right. The dufendant
indictment,
in arrest of no right to insisthat such objections should be discussed or
Judgment 'r decided during the trial of the facts by the jury.. It would
en demurrer.

-

,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

479

18p7.
be very inconvenient and embarrassing, to allow a discussion
of such topics during the progresof the cause before the
jury, and introduce much confusion into the administration U.i tsteS
of public justice. But. we think, it is not wholly incompe- Gooding.
tent for the Court to entertain such questions during the trial,
in the exercise of a sound discretion. It should. however,
be rarely done, and only under circumstances of an extraordinary nature. The Circuit Court, in the present case,
did allow the introduction and discussion of these ques-

tions during the trial, and were divided upon the propriety
of the practice. We can only certify, that the Court
possessed the authority, but that it ought not to be exercised
except on very urgent occasions.
A certificate will be sent to the Circuit Couit of the District of Maryland, according to this opinion.
This cause came on, &c. On consideCERTIFICATE.
ration whereof, it is ORDERED and ADJUDGED, that the following opinions be certified as the opinions of this Court on
points of division to the Circuit Court aforesaid.
First. That the testimony of Peter L. Colt, set forth in
the record, was, under the circumstances of the case, admissible as competent evidence against the defendant, Gooding.
Secondly. That the .opinions prayed for by the counsel
for the defendant, Gooding, in the first and sixth prayers, set
forth in the record, were correct in law, and ought to have
been given by the Court.
Thirdly. That the opinions prayed for in all the other
prayers of the defendant, were incorrect in law, and ought
to have been refused.
Fourthly. That the objections taken to the form and sufficiency of the indictment by the defendants counsel, were
not matters of right which the defendant might insist upon,
and discuss, and require to be decided during the trial of
the issue by the jury, and that the same should, according to
the regular course of practice, have been discussed on a
motion to quash the indictment, or on demurrer, or on motion in arrest of .ludgment, but that the Court had, never-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

480

-theless, competent authority, in the.exercise of a sound dircretion, to permit such objections to be discussed and deU. States cided-during the trial.
1827.

'Ovvm.

V.

Marchant.

[PaacrxcE.]

The VNITBD STATES against MARCHANT &CoIp.
Wherb two or,.more persons are jontly charged m the same indictment with a capital offence, they have nota right, by law, to be

tried .separately, without the consent of the prosecutor, but such
.separate trial is a,matter to be allowed in the discretion of the
Court.
THE opinibn of the Court in this case was delivered
by Mr. Justice Svory.
The question; which comes before us upon a certificate
of a division of-opinon of the judges of the Circuit Court
of Massachusetts, is. this, whether two or more persons,.
jointly charged in the same indictment with a capitil'offence,
have a rsght, by the laws of the country, to be tried severally, separately, and apart, the counsel for tha United
States objecting thereto, or whether it is a matter to heWal]owed in the discretion ot'the Court.
We have considered, the question, and are of opinion,
that it iba matter of discretion in the Court, -and not of
right in the parties. And it has become my duty briefly to
exppounds6me 4 the.reasons which urge us to that conclusion.
The subject is not provied for by any act of Congress;
an , therefore, if the right can be maintained- at all, it mhtst
be as a right derived from the common law, which the
Courts of the United States ire bound to recognise and enforce. The Crimes Act of 1790, ch. 9. provides, in the
20th seaon, for the right of peremptory challenge in capital cases, and this right, to the extent of the statute, must,

March i2a.

-

