OF THE UNITED STATES.

193

fraud. See also the cases of Fortunev. Lingham, (2 Campb.
1827.
0P\4,
416.) and Solomon v. Turner, (1 Stark. 51.)
The result of the above cases is this: if, upon a sale with Mallow
a warrafity, or if, by. the special terms of the contract, the Hinde.
-vendeeis at liberty to return the article sold, an offer to re- General result
ttrn it is equivalent to an offer accepted by the vendor, and, of the authoin that case, the contract is rescinded and at an end, which itdes.
is a sufficient defence to an action brought by the vendor
for the purchase money, or to eniable 'the vendee to maintain
an action for money had and received n case the purchase
money has been paid. The consequences are the same
where the sale is absolute, and the vendor afterwards consents, unconditiqpally, to take back the property, because,
in both. the contract is rescinded by the agreemenf of the
parties, and the vendee is well entitled to retain the purchase money in the one case, or to recover it back in the
other. But if the sale be absolute, and there be no subsequent ugreement or consent-of the vendor to take baclk the
article, the contract remains open, and the vendee is put to
his action upon the warranty, unless it be prov~d that the
vendor knew of the unsoundness of the article, and the
vendee tendered a return of it within a reasonable time.
We are, therefore,- of opinion, that the direction of the
Court in this case, upon the second exception, was entirely
correct. TheJudgment is to be reversed, and the, cause remanded to the Court below for a Rew trial.

[PA~cTIcz.]

MALLow and Others against HiNDE.
Where an equity cause may be finally decided as between the parties
litigant, without bringing others before the Court, who would, generally speaking, ae necessary parties, such parties may be dispen-

sed with in the Circuit Court, if its proofs cannot reach them. or ;f
they are citzens of another state.
Vror. XI!. "
r

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
827.
'Mallow
v.

Hinde

Butif the rights of those not before the Court are inseparably connected with the claim of the parties litigant, so that a final decision
cannot be made between them iithout affecting the rights of the
absent parties, the peculiar constitution of the Circuit Court forms
no ground for dispensing with such parties.
But the Court may, in its disLrenon, where the purposes of justice
require it, retain jurisdiction of she cause on an injunction bill
as between the parties regularly before it, until the plaintiffs have
had an opportunity of litigating their controversy with the other
parties in a competent tribunal, and if it finally appear by the judgment of such tribunal, that the plaintiffs are equitably entitled to
the interest claimed by the other parties, may proceed to a final de.
dree upon the merits.

Feb. I-t),.

THIS cause was argued by Mr. Bond and Mr. Brush, for
the appellants, and by Mr. Doddrtdge and Mr. Scott, for the
respondents.

Feb. 2oth.

Mr. Justice TraxsnLv delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is an appeal from the decree of the Circuit Court for
the District of Ohio, dismissing generally, with costs, the bill
of the appellants, who were plaintiffs in that Court.
The suit was a contest for land in the District set apart on
the north-west side of the Ohio, for the satisfaction of the
bounty lands due to the officers,4nd soldiers of the Virginia
line, or continental establishment, in the revolutionary war.
The plaintiffs set up claim to the land by virtue and under
a survey, No. 537, in the name of John Campbell. It appears that John Campbell, before his death, made his last
will and testament, whereby he devised his land warrants,
entries and surveys, in the military district, to Col. Richard
Taylor and others, his executors, in trust for the children of
the testator's sister. Sarah Beard, and that Taylor alone qualified as executor. and took upon himself the trust. Taylor
never conveyed or assigned the warrants, entries, or sun eys,
to Mrs. Beard's children, but permitted them, as the bill
charges, to take, the management of them into their own
hands.
Elias, Langham made sundry executory contracts with
Mrs. Beard's children, after they arrived at full age, which
contracts are set out i the bill, whereby, as the complain-

OF THE UNITED STATES.
19-27.
ants allege, Laugham became equitably entitled to survey
conveyance
of
deeds
made
sold,and
afterwards
and
No. 537;
of Mallow
for the land to the complainants; who, in consequence
their purchases from Langham, took possession of, and-im- Hinde-.
proved the land.
Thomas S. -inde, having purc.hastd and procured an assignment of a military warrant from Col. Richard Taylor,
and belonging to him in his own right, made an entry thereof
in Hinde's own name in the principal surveyor's office, and
having caused a survey to be made tfiereupon, covering survey No. 537, in the name of Campbell, Hinde obtained a patent for the land from the government.
Being thus clothed with the legal title, Hinde instituted
actions of ejectment in the Circuit Court against the appellants, and obtained judgments of eviction against themThey filed their bill praying for an injunction against the
judgments at law; and also praying that Hinde should be
decreed to release and convey to them his legal title, and for
general relief.
The bill charges, that Cpl. Richard Taylor, with full notice that the appellants were, in virtue of LanghamNs contract with the ceatuza qua frust, and Langham's sale to them,
equitably entitled to, and in possession of, survey No. 537,
fraudulently combined with Hinde and others, and improperly and without authority, withdrew the entry on which
survey No. 537 had been made, and re-entered and caused it
to be surveyed elsewhere, and that Hinde, availing himself of
such improper and unauthorized withdrawal, had entered,
surveyed and patented the land in his own name, he also
having notice of all the circumstances attending the claim
of the appellants; and that Taylor and the Beards refuse
to perfect the survey by obtaining a patent, and refuse to
convey or transfer it to the appellants.
The bill also alleges, that Langham had become equitably
and lkgal!y entitled to the survey No. 537, as a purchaser,
thereof for taxes due thereon to the state of Ohio.
Hinde filed his answer, in which be denies, the charges
of fraud and collusion; insists the land had become vacant
by the withdrawing of the entry in the name of Campbell,
and by surveying it elsewhere; and that he had legally ap-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
propriated it by Ins entry, survey, and grant; he neither
Sadmits nor denies the execution of the contracts alleged beMalow tween Lagham and the Beards, and puts the complainants
V.
Hinde upon proof; and he further insists that such contracts, if
made, conferred upon Langham no equitable title: first, because the Beards had no power to sell, without the concurrence of Taylor, the trustee; and, secondly, because Langbam had obtained the contracts by fraud, and had not paid
the consideration stipulated.
Neither Taylor, thetrustee, nor the cestuts que trust, with
whom the complainants allege Laugham contracted for the
land, are made defendants, they being out of the limits of
the jurisdiction of the Court
No attempt has been made in the argument to support the
validity of the tax sale, and it may be laid out of the case.
For the appellees it is insisted, that the proper parties are
not before the Court, so as to enable the Court to decree
upon the merits of the conflicting claims. And we are all
of that opinion. It is plain, that the appellants cannot set
up the survey No. 537, against the appellees' title, without
first showing themselves entitled to that survey. They claim
that survey, not by any assignment, or other instrument, investing them with a legal right to it, but by executory agreements, the validity and obligation of which the parties to
them have a right to contest.
We cannot try their validity, and decide upon their efficacy, by affirming they confer upon the appellants an eqmtable right, without manifest prejudice to the rights of those
notbefore the Court. Thecomplainants can derive no claim
in equity to the survey, under, or through Laugham's executory contracts with the Beards, unless these contracts be
such as ought to be decreed against them specifically by a
Court of equity. How can a Court of equity decide that
these contracts ought to be specifically decreed, without hearing the parties to them? Such a proceeding would be contrary to all the rules which govern Courts of equity, and
against the principles of natural justice. Taylor, too, is the
legal proprietor of the warrant, by virtue of which the entry
and survey No. 537 was made, and in general the right of
removal is incidental to the right of property. But it is al1827.

OF THE UNITED STA TES.

197

1827.
leged he has parted with that incidental right, although the
-%./
general legal title of ownership remains in him ; or that he
has exercised this incidental right fraudulently and impro- Mallow
V
Hinde
perly, to the prejudice of the appellants.
Can an) Court justly strip him of this incidental right, or
convict him of fraud unheard 2 Besidces. if the Court should,
by its decree, compel Ifiride to release his legal t;tle 1o the
complainants, upon the grounds. thai the entry and survey
No. 537 are superior to his title, it would be giving to the
complainants that which belotigs to Taylor as trustee, and
to his cestms que trust-, unless b) their acts and agreements
they have parted with their right to the survey. If the
Courts of the United States were Courts of general jurisdiction, it could not he doubted, that Taylor, William and Joseph Beard, and Mr. M'Gowan and wife, would be necessary
and indispensable parties, without whom no'decree upon
the merits could be made. But it is contended, that the rule
which prevails in Courts of equity generally, that all the
parties in interest shall be brought before the Court, that the
matter in controversy may be finally settled, ought not to
be adopted by the Courts of the United States, because from
the peculiar structure of their limited jurisdiction over persons, the application of the rule in its full extent would
often ousftthe Court of its aclinowledgedjurisdiction over the
persons and subject before it.
It is true, this equitable rule is framed by the Court of
equity itself, and is subject to its souud discretion.. It is not,
like the description of parties, an inflexible rule, the failure
to observe which turns the party out of Court, merely because it has no jurisdiction o%er hig'cause, but being introduced for the purposes ofjustice, is susceptible of considerable modifications for the proiikotion of the,-e purposes. Accordingly, this Court, ii, the case otfElmendorf v. Taylor, (10
Wheat. 167.) has.said, "That the rule which requires that
all persons concerned in interest. however remotely, should
be made parties to the suit, though applicable to most cases
in the Courts of the United States, is not applicable to all.
in the exercise of its discretion,. the Court will require
the plaintiff to do all in his power to bring every person concerned in interest before the Court. But if the case may
'O-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1827.

be completely decided, as between the litigant parties, the
that an interest exists in some other person,
whom the process of the Court cannot reach. as it such
party be the resident of some other State, ought not to prevent a decree upon its merits."
This doctrie was applied to The case where a small interest was outstanding in one not before the Court. as tenant
in common.
In that case, the right of the party before the Court did
not depend upon the right of the party not before the Court
each of their rights stood upon its own independent basis;
and the ground upon which it was necessary, according to
the general principle, to have both before the Court, was to
avoid multiplicity of suits and to have the whole matter
settled at once.
In this case, the complainants have no rights separable
from, and independent of, the rights of persons not trade.
parties. The rights of those not before the Court lie at tlh
very foundation of the claim of right by the plaintiffs, and a
final decision cannot be made between the parties litigant
without direct!y affecting and prejudicing the rights of others
not made parties.
We do not put this case upon the ground of jurisdiction,
but upon a much broader ground, which must equally apply
toall Courts of equity, whatever may be their structure as
to jurisdiction. We put it on the ground that no Court can
adjudicate directly upon a person's right, without the party
being either actually or constructivelly before the Court.
We have no doubt the Circuit Court had jurisdiction
between the complainants and the defendant, linde, so far
as to entertain the bill, and grant an injunction against the
judgments at law, until the matter could be heard in equity
And if it had been shown to the Circuit Court, that from
the incapacity of that Court to bring all the necessary parties before it, that Court could not decide finally the rights
in contest, the Court, in the exercise of a sound discretion,
might- have retained the cause, and the injunction, on the
application of the complainants, until they had reasonable
time to litigate the matters of controversy between them,
and Taylor and the Beards, in the Courts of the State, or

Scircumstance

Mallow
V.

Hinde.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

199

such other Courts as bad jurisdiction over them; and if 1827.
then it was made to appear by the judgment of a competent tribunal, that the complainants were equitably interest- Connor
V.
ed with the rights of Taylor, the trustee, and the cestuis que Featherstone
trust in the survey No. 537, the Circuit Court could have proceeded to decree upon the merits of the coijflicting surveys.
Such a proceeding would seem to bejustified bj the urgent necessity of the case, in order to prevent a failure of
justice ; and the cause would have remained under the control of the Circuit Court, so as to have enabled it to prevent
unreasonable delay, by the negligence or design of the parties, in litigating their rights before some competent tribunal.
The cause having been brought to a hearing before the
Circuit Cout in its present imperfect state of preparation,
that Court could not do otherwise than dismiss the bill; but
asno final decision of the rights of parties could properly
be made, the dismission, instead of being general, ought to
have been without prejudice. So much of the decree as
dismisses the bill generally must be reversed, and the de
cree, in all things else, affirmed ; and the cause is to be re
mnanded to the Circuit Court. with directions to dismiss thb
bill without prejudice.

JFR&UDULVNST

AoRENE)ExN.,

(;oNNor and Others, Appellants, against FEAmusroyD.
and Others, Respondents
A question ot tact upon a bill filed to set aside the sale and assign
ment of a land warrant, upon the ground that it was obtained by

fraudulent misrepresentation, and talng undue advantage of the
party's imbecility of body, and mind.

Evidence deemed insufcient, and bill dismissed.
THIS cause was argued by Mr White, for the appellants. Tan. I
and by Mr. .saacks, for the respondents.

