599

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1897.
[LOCAL LAw.]

De la Croix

DE LA CROIX agatiist CHAMBERLAIN.

Chamberlain

V.

Mobile in
A eoncesswto of lands made by the Spanish authorities btt
the year .1806, pnnot be given'in evidenceto support an ejectment
in the Courts ')f the United States, the same not having been re-

corded, or passed upon by the board of commissioners, or register
of the land office, established by the acts of Congress, relating to
land titles in that country.
This cause was argued by Mr. E. Lzvngston -tor the March 1st.
plaintiff, and by Mr. Omen for the defendant.
Mr. Justice TRimBLE delivered the opinion of the Court. Mard, 14th.
This was an action of ejectment brought by the plaintiff in
error against the defendant, in the DistrictCourt of the Unitd States for the district of Alab'ama. The plaintiff excepted to certain opinions of the Court given m the progress 6f
the trial, and his exceptions having been signed and sealed
by the judge, a verdict and judgment was rendered against
him; which judgment and exceptions are brought before the
Court by writ of error.
The questions in the case arise entirely out of the bill of
,exceptions. It states, that "the plaintiffclaimed the land in
the declaration mentioned as devisee of the, late Francis
Collell, and offered in evidence, as the first link in the chain
of his title, a concession from the Spanish government. ,to
the said Francis Collell, a copy of which,is annexed tb the
bill of exceptions. The Court decided that the concession
offered in evidence by the plaintiff, being nc higher evidence
of title than a warrant or order of survey, would not support an,ejectment. The plaintiff offered no other title than
that above mentioned in evidence. The Court decided, also,
that the signature of the granting officer of the Spanish government, (the intendant, as well as the assisting officers,)
must be proved." These are the opinions excepted to by
the plaintiff. A history of the case, somewhat different, is
given by the clerk iii the transcript of the record.sent up.

But it was no part of his day, nor hadhe authority, as clerk.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827. to state upon the record what was offered in evidence on the
d'.
. trials, or what opinions were expressed bi the Court in reDe la Croix lation to the evidence, otherwise than as stated in the bill of
V.

Chamberlain exceptions itself. The evidence given on the trial of an issue at common laT is no part of the record, unless made a
part of it by bill of exceptions, demurrer to evidence, or
case agreed by parties, and entered of Fecord. Nor are the
opinions of the Court. given incidentally, in the progress of
the trial. except so made by bill of exceptions. any part oftie
record. The statements of the clerk, so far as the) are contrary to the statements verified b. the seal of the judge, must
be wholly disregarded.
The concession teferred to in the bill of exceptions i,
upon its face, not a grant, nor a survey, but it is, as is expressed in the bill of exceptions, only a warrant, or order,
authorizing the deputy surveyor to make a survey, and to
report- the survey when made to the intendant, in order to
found a grant upon it. The order of survey bears date the
day of
1806. At that date the Spanish authorities were in the actual possession of Mobile, where the
land lies, and they claimed it as part of the.Xloridas. then
belonging to the Spanish crown. The United States claimed it
as part of Louisiana. But it is not necessary to investigate
these conflicting claims. The United States have since obtained the Floridas by purchase and cession from Spain.
without having previously settled the controverted boundary between the Floridas, as claimed by Spain, and Louisiana,
as claimed by the United States.
A question of disputed boundary between two sovereign
independent nations, is, indeed, much more properly a subject for diplomatic discussion, and of treaty, than of judicial
investigation. If the United States and Spain had settled
this dispute by treaty, before the United States extinguished the claim of Spain to the Floridas, the boundary fixed by
such treaty would have concluded all parties. But as that
was not done, the United States have never, so far as we can
discover, distinguished between the concessibns of land made
by the Spanish authorities within the disputed territory,
whilst Spain was in the actual possession of it, from concessions of a similar character made by Spain within the ac-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

601

knowledged limits. We will not, therefore, raise any ques- 1827.
tion upon the ground of the want of authority in the intendant to make the concession. No question of that sort seems De laV.Croix
to have been made in the Court below. Assuming, then, Chamberlain
the authority of the Spanish intendant to make the concession and warrant of survey, the question made and decided in
the District Court fairly arises, was it a sufficient title to
recover upun in the action of ejectment.? If the concession
had been made in a country where, at the time, the pnncipies ard practices known to the common law prevailed, it
would not bear a contest. It would be regarded, at most, as
an incipient, inchoate right, but not a perfect legal estate.
It would not be such title as would maintain an action -of
ejectment.
Was it a perfect legal estate, was it title, accprding to thq
Spanish law, which prevailed at Mobile at the time it was.
made? We apprehend not. It shows, upon its face, that
other acts of sovereignty remained to-be done to perfect
the title, and which the sovereign power might withhold. A
survey was to be made, and, according to the laws and usages
of Spain, a formal grant was to he made, in such cases, to
complete the title.
It may be admitted, that the United States were bound, in.
good faith, by the terms of the treaty of cession, by which
they acquired the Floridas, to confirm such concesions as
had been made by warrants of survey, yet, it would not
follow, that the legal title would be perfected until confirmation. The government of the United States has, throughout, acted upon a different principle in relation to these inchacte rights, in all its acquisitions of territory, whether
from Spain or France. Whilst the government has admitted
its obligation to confirm such inchoate rights or concessions
as had been, fairly made, it has maintained, that the legal
title remained in the United States, until, by some act of
confirmation, it was passed, or relinquished to the claimants.
It has maintained its right to prescribe the forms and manner
of proceeding in order to osbtain a confirmation, and .its
right to establish tribunals to investigate and pronounce
rpon their fairness and validity. This -is demolistrated by,
76
\'o. XII.

,ASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
the laws which Congress have repeatedly passed, establish1827.
boards of commissiopners to ivestigate these claims,
'ing
De la Croix and to reject or confirm them, or rej ort them to Congress
V.

Chamberlain incases of doubt , and by the acts of Congress requiring all
ithin prescribed periods. It
such claims to be recorded %
does not appear that this order of survey has ever been recorded or passed upon by the board of commissioners. or
register of the land office, established by Coigress in the
district in which the land lies. It can, therefore, derive no
aid from the laws of the United States.
A law of Alabama was mentioned in the argument, as
having some bearing on the case. That law provides,
" that all certificates issued in pursuance of any act of Congress, by any of the boards of commissioners, register of
the land office, &c. upon any warrant or order of survey,
&c. for any lands, &c. shall be taken and received as vesting a full, complete, and legal title, &c. so far as to enable
the'holder of such certificate to maintain any action," &c.
This case is not brought within the provisions of this lawfbr it does not appear that any such certificate had been issued thereon.
It was insisted by the plaintiff's counsel, that, admitting
the order of siurvey was not in itself title, still the judgment
ought to be reversed, because, as the bill of exceptions
atates, "that the plaintiff, offered the order of sprvey in
evidence as the first link in his chain of title ;" the opinion
of the Court precluded -him from offering other evidence of
title-as, for example, a survey or grant founded on the order of survey. This argument proceeds upon a mistake.
The expressions in the bill of exceptions, that he offered
the order of survey " as the first link in the chain of his
itle," do not import, as the argument supp6ses, that he
had, or might have, a survey or grant to ofier, in addition
to the warrant of survey. The words refer to the statement, that the plaintiff claimed as devisee of Mr. Collell,
and mean, that after offering Collells title, or the warrant
of survey granted to Coflell, as the first link in the chain of
his (the plaintiff's) title, he intended to go on and complete
the chain 'from that first link, by proof to establish I-e se'1.ind link, namely. hxs title as dev,.ee This is vident

OF THE UNITED STATES.

603

1.827.
from what is afterwards stated, that he offered "no other
title than the order of survey."
Again, the Court does not reject the order of survey, De la Croix
and exclude it altogether as evidence; but assuming that Chamberaiv
the paper offered is evidence of the party being proprietor
of the order of survey; the-Court decided, that such order
of survey was not title to recover on in the action of ejectment. It was a decision, not upon the admissibility of .te
order. of survey as evidence, but upon its legal effect when
admitted.
It is not easy to comprehend the object of the latter
statement in the bill of exceptions, -that the Court decide,
the signatures, &c. ought to be proved." It does not say
they were not proved. It does not state that the paper was
rejected because the signatures were not proved. But if the
bill of exceptions had so stated, we think the exception on
that ground could not be maintained. The warrant of survey does not appear to have been recorded.; it purported to
be the act of foreign officers, and was not verified by the
great seal of the nation to which they belonged, or any other
authoritative official seal, which was either known, or could
be proved. The Court and jury could not be presumed
cognizant of their signatures. How, then, could the genu.
ineness and authenticity of the document be proved, otherwise than by .proof of the signatures of the officers by whopi
it purported to be made? It was not of that class of pub.
lic instruments which prove themselves, and, consequently.
it ought to be proved in the mode ordinary instruments are
required to be verified by the riles of evidence.
Judgment affirmed. with coao,

