OF THE UNITED STATES.

117
1827.

[CoNs tITUTIoxAI. LAw.

P AucicE.]

Williams
V.,

WILLIAMS against NoRns.

Norns

'Under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, c. 20., where
the construction of any clause m the constitution, or any statute
of the United Staotas is drawn in quesfion, in any suit x' a state
'Court, the decision must be against the title oriright set up by the
party under such clause of the constitution or statute, or this Court
has no appellate jurisdiction in the case. It is not sufficient that
the construction of the statute was drqwnin question, and that the.
decision was against the title of the- party: it must'appear that
his title depepded upon~the statute.
Where, in such a case; the validity of a statute of any State is drawn
m-iuestion,'upon the ground of its being repugnant to the conititutioni of the United states, and the decision has been in favour of
itp validity, it is necessary to the exercise of the appellate junsdicfimn of this Court, that it should'distinctly appear that the title or
right of the p ity depended upon the statute.
The opinion of the Court, or the reasons given for. its judgment,
(unless in the case of instruction, to the jury, spread upon the record by, a bill of excetions,) form no part of the record within the'
meaning of the above 25th section. Nor are they made a part of
the record in Tennesse, by the local law of that State, requiring
the judges totle their opmibns in writing among the papers in the
cause.
No orders in the State Court, after the removal of the record into
this Court, (not made by way of amendngent, but introducing new
matter,) 'can be brought into the record here. The cause must be
heard and determined upon the record as it stood when removed.

THIS cause was'argued by Mr.. White and Mr. Eaton, for. Jan. lm.
the.plaintiff;8a and by Mr. Benton and Mr. Polk, for the defenaant.6
1Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of Jan. 19th.
the Court.
This is a writ of error to a judgment rendered in the
a Miller v. Nicholls, 4 Wheat. Rep. 311.
.b Martin v. Hunter, I Wheat. ,Rep. 804. Inglee v. Coolidge, 2
Wheat. Rep. .6 . Lanusse v. Barker, 3 Wheat. Rep. 147.

118'

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

highest Court for the State of Tennessee; consequently
Court can-exercise no other jurisdiction in the case than
is given by the 25th sectidn of the Judiciary Act.
Williams
V.

1827.
'this

The counsel for the plaintiff' in error contend, lat. That
an act of Congress has been drawn into question 'in ihe
State Court, and that the decision has been against that
act;
3d. That an act of the legisljture of Tennessee, which
impairs the obligation :of a contract, has .been drawn into
question, and that -the decision has been in favour of the
party cliniming under that act.
As preliminary to a consideration of these points, it is necessarr to inquire whether some additional papers which
bave been brought up by a cartiorars,constitute a part of
tbe record.
reasons
These papers are, the -opinion of one of the judges, which
The
vn by
the
oveobytits is-supposed to have been delivered and fied as the opinion
of the Court that decided the cause; And some proceedings
judgment,
though
reduced to wr. which took place in the same Court after the record had
Ong,
p-b bden removed into this Court Sy writ of error.
with and
the filed
1. ts the opinion apart-of the record.
teS in~l~t
cause, forbi n~o
pat of the re
As a general proposition, every gentleman of the-pwfesmor. th ,sion will, without hesitatibn, answer this question in the neNoMs.

gative. An bpinion not given to the jury, pronounided after
.a verdict was rendered; and, conselqently, having no infldence n that verdicttwhich states merely the course of 7reasoniag which conducted the Court-to itsjudgment, may. explau the views and motives of the Court, but does not form
a part of its judgment, and caniot constitute a part of the
record.
.be couneflfor the plaintiff does not contend for the geteral priiciple, but insisti that an act of the legislature
of Tennessee makes-the opinion a part of the record in the
Courts of that State.
An act passed in the year 1809, "to etablish Circuit

Couris, and a Supreme Court of 'Errors and Appeals," .lacts, "thai the judges of theCourt of Errors and Appeals,
as well as theCircuit.Court judges, shal,.as to tliidecisibos
oi l 'material points, file their-caoiniobsin writing among
the papers of te cause in. which such opinion may be given,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

This sentence amounts to no more than a provision that

119
1827.

the opinion of the judges shall appear, ana shall be preserved with the other papers; hut does not make that opt- Wiaw
nion a part of what is technically denominated " the re- Nrm.
cord, more than the other papers in the cause amongwhich
it is filed. Depositions, and exhibits of every description,
are papers in the cause, and; in one sense of the word, forni
a part of the record. Irnsome States they are recorded by
direction of law. But, in a jury cause, they constitute no
part of the record on which the judgment of an appellate
Court'is to be exercised, unless made a part of it by bill of
exceptions, or in some other manner recognised by law.
But the plaintiff relies on the succeeding sentence as making
the .6pinions of the judges a part of the record, That sentence isin these wqrds: "And where a writ of error shall
be allowed to reverse the judgment of any Circuit Courl',
in any cause, the clerk thereof shall send a transcript of the
opinion of the judge to the Court of Errors and Appeals,
with the balance of the record in the cause properly certified." It is contended, that the words " balance of the record,' show the intention of the legislature that the opimoh
of the judge shall constitute a part of that which is technically the record.
The capacity of a legislature to control the proceedings
of Courts is not questioned, and if its will be unequivocally'
declared, that will must be obeyed, but, in construing a
law, implications are not tote drawn from careless expressions, which would produce unreasonable results, and subver the usual course of legal proceedings. Can the opimon of the judge introduce any fact into'the 'cause ? Where
a judgfTdfit is rendered on a special verdict,,for example,
can he, bl an opihronl~led ten days afterwards, control the
facts found-in that verdict ? Or can be, by any thing inserted in his opinion, warrant any legal inferences vhich tbe
veidict itself would not justify, or in any manner change
the legal effect of the finding? If theopinion cannot'produe these results, for what purpose is it introduced into
the'record
It can be introduced for no other purpose thin to suggest
to the kuperior Court thoge arguments which mght other-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827.

wise escape its notice, .which operated in producing the

~judgment, and which,-'in the opinion of the legislature,
Wilia.z ought to be

weighed by.the superior Court, before that judgNoris. ment should be reversed or affirmed. If the judgment
should be cqrrect, although the reasoning, by which the
mind of the Judge was conducted.-to it, should 'be deemed
unsound, that judgment would certainly be affirmed in the
superior Court. -We cannot, therefore, imply from the
loose expression which has been dited, so extraordinary a
result, as that the opinion oi' the Court, filed after judgment,
.As,an argument, should be -consideredas a part of what is
teinically denominated the record, or.should be a supplement to the verdict. In the present case, the opinion winch
was filed,, has been inspected; and seems tQ have been
founded on a construction of the laws.of the State, without
calling -into question the -constitution of the United States
or any act of Congress. This, however, is not relied on,
because, as has. been stated, the opinion has no other mfluence on the. cause,:than" it would, have had if published
inoa book of reports.
if the Courtcould have doubted :ou-the properconstrftction of this section, the fact that it -,asnever been understood in the Courts of the State, in the sense foi which. the
counsel for the plaintiff in error now contends, would be
conclusive on the question. It is also notentirely unworthy
of remark, that so much of 'the section as requires the
judges of the Circuit Court to file their opuiion.in writing,
was repealed before the judgment in this case was pronounced; consequeatly, that part of the section which -contains the words by which the doubt was created, form no
longer a part of the law.
The certiorari has also brought up a supplemental record,
Orders made
the. State Cburt by the
an. jhe cause
to which contains a motion- made. insubsequent
its removal plaintiff in error, after the cause had been removed into this
bere, form no' Court, -to amend the record or entries of the judgment4 by
V.

patof'-the reinsertingthe
i this
cord

Coust.

questions which were de~ided by-the judges.
The reasoiis for and againSt this m6tion are spread -ponthe

record; and the facts vwbieh would give jurisdictioh to this
Court, vtre asserted by the one party and denied by the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

121

1827.
other. 'The Court took time for advisement, and does not
appear to have granted or rejected the motion.
This Court is decidedly of opinion, that no orders made Wvill.amS
in the Court of t1cState, after the removal of the record Norris.
into this Qbiurt by writ of error) not made by way of amendment, but introducing new matter,. could be brought into it,
or could in any manner affect it. The cause must be tried
on. the record as it stood when removed, not upon the subsequent proceedings, which ware pressed in the State Court
after- its final judgment was given. In the present case.
nothing is before the Court but the original record.
'hat record exhibits a caveat against the issuing of a
grant on a survey, made fQr the defendant, and assigns various causes why it should not be issued. The plaintiff
claimed under a patent from the state of Tennessee, and
the caveat was the proper, process to contest the right of the
defendant. On the tr1a4 a jury, in pursuance of the act of
the legislature of that State of 1807, ch. 1. sec. 8., was "impannelled and sworn, for (inding such facts as are material
to the cause, and not agreed on by the parties." The
jury found, 1st, that on the 3d day of May, 1784, Ezekiel
Norris made his entfy in the office of John Armstrong, entry taker of western lands, reciting the words of the entry
In the margin, the following words are 'inserted, "detained
d
for no-n-paymen."N8
2d. That on the 18th of November, 18t5, a duplicate
warrant of su .ey was issued by the commissioner of West
Tennessee tche said Norris, a topy of which is annexed.
3d. The 3d fact is, that the ntry was special and the
4th,-that the tract of land, which the entry called to adjoin.
was notorious.
5th. That the original wirkant, No 2047, to Ezekiel Norris, issued and was filed in the comptroller's office of North
Carolina, without any endorsement thereon, that it was de-,
tained for non-payment. The copy of the warrant is found.
and is incomplete, being without the signature of John Armstrong, the entry 'taker.
The caveatee required the jury to find, as a fact, that thb
purchase money was paid by Norris, and that the memorandum in the margin, "detained for non-payment," was a
16
Vey. Xl1.

CASES 1N TIE SUPREME COURT

182.
iraudulent entry. Thejury refuse to find this fact, and in its
,,.v:--stead, find, "that it is not proved to them that the consideWilliams
ration, at the rate of -10 per hundred for every hundred
V.
Noris.

acres, for the entry of the said Ezekiel Norris, in question,
was duly paid to John Armstrong, entry taker, &c. and that
afterwards it was falsely and firaudulently inserted in the
margin of the entry book containing said entry, and opposite to the same, by some person, ' detained, for non-payment., 11

The act of North Carolina, which authorized entries to
be -madein John Armstrong's office, contains the following
enactment That every person claiming, before he shall
be entitled to enter a claim for any of the said lands, shall
pay into the hands of the entry taker, at the rate o" ten
pounds in specie, or in specie certificates at their nominal
value, &c. for every hundred acres so entered.
The 19th section directs every entry taker within the State,
to make out and deliver to the surveyor, on or before the
first day of April and the first day of October afinually, the
warrants for the several entries (which are not disputed)
made in his office, with an endorsement prescribed by law,
showing the number and date of the entry.
The Circuit Court for the County of Lincoln decided,
that Williams, the cave~tor, had the better right. This
judgment was carried to the Court of Errors and Appeals by
writ of error, where it was .reversed, and the caveat dismissed.
That judgment is now before this Court; and in -considering it we are confined to the inquiry, whether the record
shows any misconstruction of an act of Congress, or of the
.-onstitution of the United States.
In 1789, North Carolina ceded her western territory to
the United States, reserving to herself the right of perfecting titles, in all cases whiere entries had been made according to law.
Under this reservation, several acts were passedi directiig warrants of survey to be issued on entries made in John
Armstrong's office, where the purchase money had been or
should be paid.
In 1796, Tennessee was erected into a State. In 1803,
Northl Caroiia entered into a compact with the State of

OF THE UNITED STATES.

123

Tennessee, in which the former ceded to the latter the 1827.
power to issue grants,. and perfect titles to all claims of land %
V.
lying in the said State, which power had been reserved to Williams
herself by North Carolina, in her acts ceding her then Norris.
western territory to the United States. This compact was
assented to by Congress.
In 1806,-Congress passed an act, ceding to the State of
Tennessee all the rights of Congress to lands lying east and
north of a line described in the act.
The land in controversy is within the territory thus ceded
by Congress.
not
If any stipulation-in the compact between North Caro- drawninqueslina and Tennessee could have tffected the controversy be- tion.
tween Williams and Norris, it muit have been because the
title of Norris came within the reservation made by the
State of North Carolina in her act of cession to Congress.
That reservation was the subject of the compact. As the
controversy was not between two persons, claiming under
North Carolina, but between a person claiming under North
Carolina, and one claiming under the State of Tennessee,
and the decision was in favour of the title set up under
North Carolina, we cannot perceive how thalt decision can
be considered as a violation of the compact. North Carolina stipulates that titles should bL. issued by the State of
Tennessee for lands to -which there were valid claims under
her laws, and for which patents might have been issued by
her, had the compact not been made. If the title of Norris
was valid, according to the laws of North Carolina, then the
decision in his favour is in pursuance of the compact; if it
was not valid, according to those laws, then the case is not
within the compact. In either view of it, the compact has
not been violated.
The act which gives the sanction of Congress to tluis
agreement, also cedes to Tennessee a large territory, comprehending the lands in controversy. This cession is made
on several conditions, one of which respects all existing
claims to lands under the State of North Carolida. Its operation is understood to be, so far as it can affect the case
now before the Court, precisely the same with that of the
eompact between the two States. The same observationc

CASES LN THE SUPREME COURT

1827. apply to it as were applied to that instrument. The title,
%
for the benefit of which it was intended, if it has any inWilliams
fluence in the case, has prevailed. Consequently, neither
V.
the compact between the States, nor the act of Congress
which assents to that contract, and which confers on the
State of Tennessee the power to perfect titles in the district of .country which comprehends the lands in controversy, can have been violated.
The vandity A point of rather more difficulty remains to 4~e considerofeStatelaw, ed. It is contended, that the validity of a statute of the
whether
drawn in ques- State of Tennessee has been drawh into question in this
tion.
case, on the ground of its being repugnant to the constitution, and the decision has been in favour of its validity.
The act supposed to be unconstitutional is, " an act for
the relief of Ezekiel Norris."
It is not stated in the record, that the constitutionality*of
this act was drawn in question; and the 25th section of
the Judiciary Act declares, that "no error shall be assigned
or regarded, but such as appears on the face of the record,
and immediately respects the before mentioned, questions of
validity, or construction of the said constitution," &c. The
case of iller v. Mickolls, (4 Wheat. Rep. 311.) has been relied on to prove that it is not necessary to ihejunsdiction of
the Court that the record should, in terms, state a misconstruction of the act of Congress, or that it was drawn in.
question. It is sufficient to give the Court jurisdiction, that
the record should show that an act of Congress was applicable to the case,
The case of Mller v. Aicholls, was a claim filed by Mr.
Dallas, the attorney of the United States, for a sum of money brought into a State Court of Pennsylvania to be disposed of by the Court. The money belonged to a debtor
of the United States, wh6 was also indebted to the State of
Pennsylvania. The Court decreed the money to the State,
in pursuance, it is presumed, of an act of the legislature,
giving the State a preference. The case was brought, by
writ of error, into this Court, upon the allegation that the
judgment was in violation of the act of Congress, which
gives priority to the United States in all cases of insolvency.
'This Court dismissed the writ of error. because, the fact of
NorMIs.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

125

insolvency not having been shown, it did not appear from 1827.
the record that the act of Congress, or the constitutionality %
of the State law, was drawn into question. The Court Williams
V.
added, that the record need not state, in terms, a miscon- Nos.
struction of the act of Congress, or that it was drawn in
question.
The act of Congress applies to every insolvent debtor of
the United States, and gives them priority as to all the property of the. ddbtor which he possessed when the insolvency
took place, but it applies only to cases of insolvency. Had
the record shown that this was a case of insolvency, so.that
the act of Congress applied to it, that act must have been misconstrued, ot its obligation denied, when the Court decreed
the money to the State of Pennsylvania; and the Court was
of opinion, that the. act could not have been evaded, by the
omission to refer to it in the judgment, or to spread it on the
record.
To apply the principle of that case to this, it will be necessary to show that the title of, Norris depended on the
act passed in his favour by the legislature of Tennessee,
and that the act was repugnant to the constitution.
That art is ih these words. -' Be it enacted," &c. " that
the commissioner of West Tennessee be, and he is hereby
authorized to issue to Ezekiel Norris, certificates or warrants to the amount of 2,280 acres, being the amount of
two entries, No. 2,046 for 1,000 acres, and No. 2,047 for
1,280 acres, on which no warrants or grants were issued;
provided that the said Ezekiel Norris shall produce sufficient evidence to the said commissioner that the consideration for said entries was paid, and that no warrant or grant
ever issued on said entries."
When this act passed, a patent had been granted by the
State of Tennessee to the plaintiff in error, comprehending
a part of the land covered by the entry of Norris. Ii its
effect was to annul that patent, and to give a new title to
Norris, the act would come Within the decision of this Court
in the case of Fletcherv. Peck. as a law impairing the obligation of contracts. In determining whether such was its
effect, it is necessary to inquire whether Norris's entry was
absolutely void, or gave an incipient title. capable of being

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT-

12

carried into grant. If the purchase money was paid, the
Sentry was valid. If not. paid, the entry might be void, or
only voidable. The words of the act under which it was
Williams
V.
1827.

Norris.

made have been cited, and may admit of either construction. It is a question for the legisiature and courts of the
State, and its decision the one way or the other would not
be repugnant to the constitution of the United States. It is
apparent that the legislature of North Carolina has not
considered these entries, where the purchase money was
not paid at the time, as being absolutely void, but has supposed them to be capable of being perfected, and carried
into grant, as the legislature might direct.
In 1794, the comptroller was directed to issue warrants
in all cases in which the purchase money had been paid.
In 1796, it was enacted, that no grants should issue on
warrants on entries made in John Armstrong's office, unless
it should appear by Armstrong's books, or other sufficient
testimony, that the. purchase money hag -teen paid. The
next succeeding section of the same act authorizes any person entitled to such entry to pay, into the treasury the
amount or balance of the purchase money, upon which a
warrant may be issued.
In 1798, the legislature appointed commissioners to investigate the frauds suggested to have been committed in the
Secretary's office, and directed that no grant should issue
on warrants obtained on entries which the commissioners
might deem fraudulent.
The act of'1799, ch. 7. sec. 16. directs warrants to issue
on all entries where the requisites of the law have been, or
shall be, complied with.
The legislation of North Carolina, to the year 1803, proceeds upon the idea, that the entries made in John Armstrong~s office, for which the purchase money had not been
paid, were not absolutely void, but might be made good by
paying the purchase money, or such part of it as remained
due. The right geems to have been considered as preserved and suspended until the purchase money should be
paid. In this state of things, the power of perfecting titles,
which had been retained by North Carolina in her Cession
Act, was transferred to Tennessee, on condition that itiles

OF THE UNITED STATES.
should be perfected, or entries made, under the laws of that
State, according to the requisites of those laws.
In 1806, c. 1. sec. 45. the legislature of Tennessee appointed commissioners to decide on the validity of entries,
with directions to admit no warrants on entries made in John
Armstrong's office, if it may appear to the said commissioners that the purchase money has not been paid.
By the act of 1807, c. 20. sec. 25 and 29. it is enacted,
that where it shall appear to either of the commissioners,
that entries have been made in John Armstrong's office, on
which the purchase money has been paid, in whole or in
part, warrants may issue for so much land as has, been paid
for. But it is provided, that the person exhibiting such
claim, shall produce a certificate from the comptroller of
North Carolina, showing what sum was paid on the said entry. This act was continued in force till the 1st of January,
1815. In October, 1815, an act passed, directing that there
should be one commissioner in East, and one in West Tennessee, each of whom should exercise the powers which had
been vested in commissioners by the act of 1806.
We do not understand that the propriety or obligation of
these acts has ever been questioned by the Courts of either
North Carolina or, Tennessee. We do not understand that
the Courts of either State have ever questioned the legisla.
tive construction of the act, opening the office in which
this entry was made. That construction is, that entries received by John Armstrong, though not accompanied by 1he
purchase money, were not absolutely void, but would become valid, should the purchase money be afterwards paid,
and that such proof of payment might be received as the
legislature should prescribe. It cannot be doubted, that
numerous titles are held under this construction of the law.
Its correctness or incorrectness does not seem to involve
any constitutional question, or any question which can give
this Court jurisdiction in a cause which has been determineil
in a Statc Court.
Had the claim of Ezekiel Norris been decided by the
commissioners acting under the general law, it would probably never have been contested.
What difference is
there, so far as respects its constitutionality, between the

127
1827.
Villias
V.

Norris

128

CASES; IN,THE SUPREME COURT

1827.
,
Williams

act passed in his parthcqlar case, and the act containing.a
general reference of all cases of the same description to the
commissioner? The difference consists solely in this: 'the

V.

Nors.

general act admits no othet proof of payment than a certificate from the comptroller of NorthCaroliria; the particular act authorizes the commissioner to establish the.. claim.
on sufficient evidence; that -is, we presume, on such. evidence as is generally admissible in a Court of justice. We
know of no principle which could impose on the legislature
of the State the necessity of exacting from the claimant,
under an entry made in John Armstrong, office, as indispensable to the establishment of his claim, a certificate from
the comptrqller of North Carolina that the purchase money
had been paid. The act of 1794 left the fact of payinent
open to legal proof. The act of 1796 required that it
should appear by Armstrong's hooks, or other legal testimony. If, then, the general act of Tennessee had allowed
the commissioner to issue warrants, on sufficient proof,
such act might have been. questioned on the ground of policy, btt not of right.
If this be correct, if the legislature might have dispensed
with this testimony in a general law, why may it not be dispensed with in a particular law, where its effect on the cause
is precisely the same as if it had been general? There are,
undoubtedly, great and solid objections to legislation for particular.cases. But these objections do not necepsarily make
such legislation repugnant 'to the constitution of the United
States.
The act "for the relief of Ezekiel Norris," did not authorize the comniissioner to grant him a certificate or .warrant on his entry, unless he should prove that the purchase
money had been paid. The laws, had preserved such en-

tries, and, consequently, an act to enable the proprietor of
one .of them to prosecute his claim, is not necessarily an act
impairing the obligation of-a dontract.
The question whether the judgment of the commissioner
was conclusive evidence that the purchase money had been
paid, is entirely distinct from the constitutionality of the
law, and the decision of the State Court upon it cannot be
revised in this Court.

129

OF THE UNITED STATES.

We are of opinion, that this record does not exhibit a
case of which this Court can take jurisdiction, and that the
Montgomery
writ of- error ougfit, therefore, to be dismissed.
V.

flernandE.
JUDGMENT.

This cause came on, &c. On consideration

whereof this Court is of opinion, that there is no error apparent on the face of the record, of which this Court can

take jurisdiction. It is, therefore,

CONSIDERED

by this

Court, that the writ of error be dismissed, and that -the
cause be remanded to the .Supreme Court of Errors and

Appeals-of the State of Tennessee.

[CONTSTITUTioN Ar. LAw.

MONTGOMERY,

CONSTRUCTION OF STATUTE.]

Plaintiff in Error, againstHERWANDEZ and
Others, Defendants in Error.

Under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, ch. 20., his
Court has no appellate jurisdiction from the final judgment of the
hbighest Court of a St4te,'in a suit where is drawn in question the
construction of a statute of, or a comnissionjheld under the United
States, unless some title, right, privilege, or exemption, under such
statute, &c. be specially set up by the party, and the decision be
against the claim so made by hm.
Where a suit was brought in a State Court upon a marshal's bond,
under the act of April l0th, 1806, ch. 21., bya person injured by 4
breach of the condition of the bond, and the defendants set up as a de-fince to the action that the suit ought to have been brought in ihe
name of the United States, and the Court decided that it was
well brought by the party injured in his own name Held, thatthe
exemption here set up being merely as to the form of the action,
and no question arismg as to the legal liability 9 f the defendants
under the act of Congress, this Court bad no autjiority to re-eit.
amine the judgment, so far as respected the construction of that
part of the act, .which provides, that suits on marshals' bonds "shall
be commenced and prosecuted within six years after the said right
of action shall have accrued, and not afterwards."
Under the 4th section of the same act, although the condition of the
marshal's bond is broken by his neglecting to bring money int"

VOL. XII.

17

