OF THE UNITED STATES.

565

1827.
or the injunction would have been dissolved on motion.
The continuance of the injunction is, in substance, equivaThompson
lent to a renewal of it.
Peter.
Under these circumstances, some difference of opinion
exists on the motiori for a mandamus. Some of the Judges
think, that it ought to be awarded ; others are of opinion,
that as the injunction is still continued by the Court, and as
the Judges who have a right to give it force have returned
thatat is in force, it ought not to be awarded. The motion
isoverruled.
Rule discharged.

[LIMITATION.]
Tu-omPsoN agamst.PETER & JonNs, Administrators de bonrs
non of PETER, deceased.
An acknowledgment of the debt by the-personal representatives of'
the original debtor, deceased, will not take the case out of the statute of limitations.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Columbia.
This was an action of assumpsit brought in September,
1822, by the plaintiff against the defendants, for goods sold,
&c. to their intestate. At the trial in the Court below, the
plaintiffgave in evidence, that in the lifetime of the intestate,
James Peter, who died in the year 1808, fie admitted the
payment, at his request and for his use, by the plaintiff, of
the 800 dollars, charged in the account produced, that after
the death ofsaid Peter, and after his brother D. Peter had
obtained letters of administration on his estate, an account,
of which the one now in suit is a copy, was drawn off, passed
the Orphan's Court, and presented to said D. Peter, as said
administrator, for payment; to which he answered, there
were no funds in hand to pay the debts of the.antestate. The
said account. with the certificate of allowance by the Or-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
phan's Court thereon, and so presented as aforesaid, wa.
1827.
\o- -% left in the hands of said D. Peter after his death, which was
Thompson in the year 1812, and after the defendants had qualified as
V.

Peter.

Feb.

d.

March 1st.

admmistrators de bores non, some time in the spring or summer of the year 182'9, an appaicttion was made on behalf of
the plaintiff to the defendant, G. Peter, for a settlement of
the said account to which he answered, that he knew very
little of the business of the estate, which was principally attended to by the other defendant, Johns, but there were no
funds in hand to pay the debts of the estate, and in a subsequent conversation, the said G. Peter. in answer to another
application for payment of the said account. said, that until
a recovery could be had from one Magruder. to whom lands
of the intestate had been sold, for the purchase money of
which a suit was pending, the administrators would have no
funds to pay James Peter's debts, application for a settlement was then made in behalf of the plaintiffto said Johns, to
whom the other defendant had referred as the acting administrator, and the said Johns was requested to see if the said
account, before delivered to said David Peter as aforesaid.
was not among the files of his papers, and to return it for the
purpose of bringing suit on it: to which the said Johns replied, that he had seen, or believed the account was on file.
would look for and return it, and further said, there were no
funds in hand to pay the debts of the estate, and on a second
application to the said Johns for the said account, he said he
had looked for it arnd could not find it.
A verdict.was taken, subject to the opinion of the Court.
whether the above was sufficient evidence, to be left to the
jury, of a subsequent acknowledgment of the debt. to take
the case Pat of the statute of limitations. A judgment having
been reudered for the defendants, the cause was brought by
writ of error before this Court.
The cause was argued by Mr. Jones for the plaintiff, and
by Mr. Key1 for the defendants.
Mr. ChiefJustice MARsHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

567

1827.
'This was a suit brought in September, 1822, on a promise alleged to have been made by the intestate of the defendant, who died in the year 1808. The defendant pleaded Thompson
Peter.
sion assurnpsit, and the statute of limitations, on which pleas
issue was joined. By consent of parties a verdict was found
for tile plaintiff, subject to the opinion of the Court, whether
the evidence which is stated in a case made by the parties,
be sufficient to be left to the jury as evidence of a subsequent acknowledgment, competent to take the case out of
the statute of limitations. The Court gave judgment for
the defendants, which judgment is now before this Court on
a writ of error.
The Court is of opinion that the Circuit Court decided
rightly The original administrator, David Peter, did not
acknowledge the debt, but said there were no funds in hand
to pay the debts of the testator. This language might be
used by a person not intending to give any validity to the
claim, and ignorant of its real merits. The conversation
with one of the present defendants, George Peter, was still
further from being an acknowledgment. Had this even been a
suit against the original debtor, these declarations would not
have bee" suficie;. .o take the case out of the statute. The
cases cited from 8 Cranch's IAep. 72. and 11 Wheat. Rep.
209. are expressly in point. But this is not a suit against
the original debtor It is brought against his representative,
who may have no personal knowledge of the transaction.
Declarations against him -have never been held to take the
promise of a testator or intestate out of the act. Indeed,
the contrary has been held.
Judgment affirmed, with costs.

