UASES IN THE SUPREME CoUrIR

and this circumstance has induced Parliament to sepurehiu.
SIt is stated by Ashhurst, Justice, in 1 Term Rep. 731. that
U. States this was the sole object of that part of the statute oi fraud,
1827.
V.

Tiliotson. which relates to this subject. In the case at bar, the judgment is notice to the purchaser of the prior lien, and there
is no act of the legislature to protect the purchaser from that
lien.
We think, then, that the deed made by the Sheriff to the
purchaser, under the firstjudgment, conveyed the legal title
to the premises, and that the judgment on the special verdict
ought to have been in favour of the plaintiff.
Judgment reversed.

[PRACTICE.
THrE UNITED STATEs againstTILLOTSON and another.
Where the burthen of proof of certain specific defences set up by the
defendant is an lm, and the evidence presents contested facts, an
absolute direction from the Court, that the matters produced and
read in evidence on the part of the defendant were sufficient in
law to maintain the issue on his part, and that the jury ought to
render their verdict in favour of the defendant, is erroneous; and

a judgment rendered upon a verdict purporting to have been given
under such a charge will be reversed, although the record was
made up as upon a bill of exceptions taken at a trial before thejury
upon the matters in issue, no such trial ever having taken place,
and the case having assumed that shape by the agreement of the
parties, in order to take the opinion of ihe Court upon certain
questions of law.
Feb. 24th.

Mar lid.

THIS cause was argite4 by the Attorney General and Mr.
(Coxe for the plaintiffs, and by Mr. Webster and Mr. Wheaton
for the defendants.

Mr. Justice STorY delivered the opinion of the Court.

This cause comes before us from the Circuit Court for the
Soitihern Distict of New-York: as upon a bill of exception.

OF THE UNITEP STATES.

181

taken to the opinion of the Court, upon a trial before a jury 1827.
upon the matters in issue. In reality no such trial was had, '"v-'
but the case assumed this shape by the agreement of the par- U. States
ties, in order to have the opinion of the Court upon certain Tillotson.
questions of law. We must, however, consider the case exclusively upon principles applicable to it as a bill of excep-"
tions taken at a real trial."
Upon the argument in this Court, various important questions have been elaborately discussed by counsel, upon which
we forbear to express any opinion, as our judgment of reversal proceeds upon a ground, which renders any decision
on them unnecessary.
The bill of exceptions admits the due execution of the
bond in controversy, and the breaches stated in the declaration are answered by special notices of defence set up as
bars to the suit. The burthen of proof of thes6 defences, in
point of fact, rested on the defendants. The Court is
supposed to have charged tho jury, that the matters produced
and read in evidence on the part of the defendants were sufficient in law to maintain the issue on their part, and that
the jury ought to render their verdict in favoii of the defendants. This charge can be maintained in point of law
only-upon the supposition, that the evidence presented no
contested facts, for otherwise it would withdraw from the
jury their proper functions, to determine the facts upon the
evidence in tfie cause.
Upon examining the record, we think that there is contradictory evidence, or rather evidence conducing to opposite results, in respect to a point material to many of the specifications of defence, and particularly as to the matters in
the third, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth and ninth. It is this:
whether the contract of the 7th of June, 1820, between Col.
Gadsden, as agent of the War Department, and Samuel
Hawkins, was ever a consummated agreement, binding on the
United States, in virtue of an original authority given to him,
a The cause was argued and determined in the Court below upon
a case agreed upon between the parties, containing a state of facts;
but as the state of facts was not annexed to the transcript of the record, this Court could not take notice of it.

OASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
or was a preliminary agreement dependent for-its validity
the ratification of the War Department; and if thatU. States
was withheld, (which there was direct evidence to prove,)
V.
1827.

Supon

Tillotson. the agreement was a mere nullity. The bill of exceptions
does not in terms find, that the agreement was such a consummated agreement. It merely states, that "on or about
the 7th of June, 1820, Col. James Gadsden, then acting as
the agent for fortifications at Mobile Point, and thereto duly
authortzed by the said War Department, did' enter intb an
agreement or contract with the said Samuel Hawkins, touching the foregoing contract. with the said Benjamin W. Hopkins, and.the erection of the fort therein provided for," &c.
The word " th e ret o " may be applied either to the next antecedent, the agency of fortifications, or to, the subsequent
clause stating the agreement. It may mean, having a due
authority as agent for fortifications, or having a due authority
to enter into the agreement. The recital in the agreement
itself, that Col. Gad- den entered into it "in pursuance of
the instructions of the Secretary of the War Department,"
would not be decisive of the point, supposing it to be entitled
to the fullest weight as matter of recital. But the case does
not rest here . in another part of the record, evidence is introduced on the part of the United States, to establish, that
the agreement so made had'never been ratified on the part
of the War Department; and also to show, that it was understood by that department, that without such ratification
the contract was not obligatory. We allude to tiiat'part of
the record, where it is stated, that the agreement, as soon as
executed at Mobile Point, was transmitted to the War Department,. and that a letter was written by the authority of
that department, under date of the 10th July, 1820, to the
defendants, as Hawkins's sureties, enclosing a copy ofthe
agreement, and requesting them, if they would sanction it, to
send certificates ofthe fact, and "signifytheirapproval,andauthionze it to be carried into efect"i-and it is added, "should
you object, the contract will be carriedcn as efore," that is,
the originalcontract. It is further found by the case, that
the agreement "was not ratified by the Secretary of War,
nor ever acted upon, except so'far as it may appear to have

OF THE UNITED STATES.

18b

1827.
been ratified and acted upon by the said transcript" (of the
treasury accounts) contained in the record.
It appears to us, that, taking this evidence together, it ThorntOn
was not a conceded point, but a matter of controversy be- Wynn.
tween the parties, whether the agreement was obligatory
upon the United States,.and had become absolute by the assent of all the persons who had authority to perfect the
same. This being so, it was a matter of fact to be decided
by the jury, and the charge of the Court was erroneous in
withdrawing it from the consideration of thejury.
For this reason it is our opinion, that the judgment of the
Circuit Court was erroneous, and ought to be reversed, and
the cause be remanded, with directions to award a entrefa.rtasde novo.a

IBILL OF

EXvCANGEI eID PROMissoRy NoTE.

SALE WITL

WARRANTY.]

THORLMTON, Plaintiff in Error, against WYNr,

Defendant in

Error.
An unconditional promise, by the endorser of a bill or note, to pay it.
or the acknowledgment of his liability, after knowledge of his
discharge from his responsibility by the lacbep of the holder,
amounted to an implied waiYei of due notice of a demand from
the drawee, acceptor, or maker.
Upon a sale with a warranty of soundness, or where, by the special
terms of the contract, the vendee is at liberty to return the article
sold, an offei to return it is equivalent to an offer accepted by the
vendor, and the contract being thereby rescinded, it is a defence,
to an action for the purchase money, brought by the vendor, and
will entitle the vendee to recover it back if it has been paid.
So, if the sale is absolute, and the vendor afterwards consent unconditionally to take back the article, the consequences are the same.
But if the sale be absolute, and there be no subsequent consent to
take back the article, the contract remaln open, and the vendee
must resort to his action upon the warranty, unless it be proved that
the vendor knew of the unsoundness of the article, and the vendee
tendered a return of it within a reasonable time.
a Sie 1 Pame's Rep. ,05. S. C.

