CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

570

Th'e second point is, we believe, well settled. The issue
is, we believe, universally considered as following the mother, unless they be separated from each other by the terms
of the instrument which disposes of the mother.

1827.
Newman
V..

Jackson.

Decree affirmed, with costs.

[SALr.]

"NEwmAN, Plaintiff in Error, against JAcKson, Defendant
in Error.
Question as to the sufficiency of a notice' of sale of real property
under a deed of trust.
Vo particular'form of such a notice is prescribed by law; it is suffi-

cient if the description of the, land is reasonably certain, so as to
inform the public -ofthe property to be sold.
THIS.cause was argued by Mr. Key, for the plaintiff in
error, and by Mr. Sijann, for the defendant in error.

March Rd.

Mr. Justice TRIMBLE delivered the opinion of the Court.
This was an action of ejectment, brought to recover lot
No. 99, in Threlkeld's addition to Georgetown, with the improvements thereon, fronting sixty feet on Fayette-street
and one hundred and twenty feet on Second-street.
The plaintiff in error was tenant in possession of the
prenses, appeared to the action, and, upon entering into
-the common consent rule, was admitted to defend, and
pleaded not guilty, upon which issue was joined.
Upon the trial in the Court below, the plaintiff gave in
,evidence a deed from John W. Bronaugh to Thomas G.
Moncure, coiveyng to him, in trust, for the payment of
certain enumerated creditors, "A lot on Fayette-street, and
Second-street, in Georgetown, fronting 60 feet on Fayettestreet, and 120 feet on Second-street, with the buildings.

March 1 t]i.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1827.
improvements, and privileges," in trust, to secure the payment of the enumerated debts within thirty days, and, if
not then paid, the property conveyed in trust I to be sold, Newman
V.
" after a week's notice in the Messenger," &C.
Jackson.
The plaintiff gave in evidence the notice published in
the Messenger, under, and in pursuance of which, the property was sold at public auction, in these words, to wit:
11 By virtue of a deed of trust to the subscriber, for the securing certain moneys theretn.mentioned, will be exposed to
public sale, on Thursday, the 4th of March next, for ready
money, the following described property, viz. lot No. 99, in
Peter, Beatty, Threlkeld, and Deakins' addition to Georgetown, fronting 60 feet. on Fayette-street. and 120 feet on
Second-street, with a two story brick dwelling house, in excellent repair, thereon. The sale to take place on the premises.
"'THOMAS G. MONCURE, Trustee.
above sale postponed until the 4th day of May
tiext, whenitwill certainly takeplace. Alarch 24th, 1819."
ccThe

The plaintiff proved, that the lot conveyed by the deed
of trust had been sold on the premises, at public auction.
by Moncure, the trustee, on the day mentioned in the notice, and that Jackson became the highest bidder and purchaser ; and the plaintiff gave in evidence the deed of conveyance made by the trustee to Jnckson, for lot No. 99, &c.
in pursuance of the public sale. It was proved, that the
plaintiff in error had entered upon the premises as tenant
to John W. Bronaugh, and that he was in possession at the
commencement of the suit; and the town plats were also
given in evidence.
A verdict was taken for the plaintiff, subject to the opinion
of the Court, as to the law arising upon the case, and the
Court below thereupon gave judgment for the plaintiff in
that Court.
It is contended for the plaintiff in error, that the judg.
ment of the Court below is erroneous. and should be reversed

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827.
..Newman
V.
Jackson.

1st. Because no valid sale could be made of the premises
inquestion without the aid of a Court.of equity.
2dly. Because the trustee's " proceedings were irregular, and no title passed to the appellee by Moncure's deed
of the 14th of June,, 1819."
We do not think there is any thing in the first ground
assumed by the counsel for the plaintiff in error. Whether
the conveyance from Bronaugh to Mopucure be regarded as
a mortgage, as contended for by the counsel, or as a deed of
trust, in the usual and technical sense of the term, there
can be no doubt-it vested in Moncure the legal title to the4
premises ; and his coti.veyance.of the premises by deed to the
appellee, if regularly-made, must necessarily be regarded in
a "Court.,of law, as investing the appellee with the legal
title. How the matter might be regarded by a Court of
equity, is not for this Court here to say. But it is perfectly
clear, that the conveyance of the trustee was a sufficient
title at law to enable his alienee to recover in the action of
ejectment, unless the second objectionis mainiainable.
The second ground of argument proceeds upon gn objection to the notice of sale. It turns out, upon an inspection
of the town plats, that the prepises in question do not lie
in ",Peter,. Beatty, Threlkeldl and Deakins' addition to
Georgetown," as described in the notice, but in " Threlkeld's" addition to Georgetown. 'And this mistake in the
description of the premises, it is insisted, wholly vitiates
the notice, and must render the sale made under it void.
We think the objection. ought not to be sustained. The law"
has prescribed no particular form for a notice of this description. It is sufficient if, upon the whole matter, it ap.
pears calculated reasonably, to apprize the public of the
property intended to be sold. We think the notice sufficient for that purpose, notwithstanding the inaccuracy of
describing the property as being in "Peter, Beatty, Threlkeld, and Deakins' addition," instead of" Threlkeld's addition." It could not mislead those who did not know the
precise limits of these respective additions, and they were,
to those who might wish to purchase, of so little consequence,,as scarcely to form a subject of inquiry. Thatpart
of the description, all must have known, did not, and could

OF THE UNITED STATES.
not, point out the particular lot intended to be sold. That
1827.
could only be arrived at by the more certain and specific ,
description of its.locality; namely, "lot No. 99, fronting Newman
V.
60 feet on Fayette-street, and 120 on Second-street." To Jackson.
those who knew the precise limits of the several additions, the
notice furnished, upon its face, not only sufficient evidence of
the mistake, but a sufficiknt corrective of that mistake. They
could not be ignorant that Fayette-street and Second-street
were not in the addition described, but in the adjoinng addition, in the name of Threlkeld. As the lot is described
as fronting 60 feet on one of those streets, and 120 on the
other, it must have been obvious, at once, that as these
streets crossed each other at right angles, and the lots were
laid off in right-angled parallelograms, the lot intended lay
in the angle formed by these two streets. The streets of a
town are its public highways, and must be presumed to be
-well known to, or easily found by, all those who have an interest in knowing them, or inquiring for them. They are.
indeed, the most prominent and notorious land marks and
guides by which the lots are to be sought for, found, and

known.
It cannot be believed, thai any one wishing to find, or.
know, lot No. 99, fronting 60 feet on Fayette.street, and
120 feet on Second-street, or to purchase, could be, for one
moment misguided by the inaccurate, and palpably mistaken
description, of its being in "Peter, Beatty, Threlkeld, and
Deakins addition."
Common sense would dictate, to every one who read
the notice, that the less important, obscure, and indefinite part of the description, which, whether true or false.
did not fix and give locality to the lot intended to be described, ought to yield to that palpable and notorious de-

scription, in reference to the public streets and highways of
the town, which gave it positive locality
It has been said. that the No. 99, did not appear on the
recorded plat of the town, upon which the square only is
laid down, without divisional lines and numbers designating

the lots of each square, but, it is admitted, it was numbered
on the plat made out by order of the cornoration. and lodged

with the register. but not ree.orded.

CASES IN THE -SUPREME COURT
1827.

It is believed, no purchaser would have ventured to buy
. without first inspecting the title deeds,and both the plats. But
Dunlap be this asit may, and even if any should have been so careless
V.

Dunlap.

as not to examine the latter plat. still it would clearly appear, from the recorded plat, that the lot described did not
lie m the addition supposed by the notice, but in Threlkeld's
addition, which was all that was necessary to correct the
mistake; and it would also appear, it must necessarily lie
in the angle made by Fayette-street and Second-street.
A purchaser, or any one inclined to become a purchaser.
of property upon those streets, could not have failed to have
ascertained the particular lot intended by the notice.
We all think the notice was, notwithstanding the mistake
in part of the description, certain to a common and reason..
able extent, and that is sufficient.
Judgment affirmed, with costs.

LCHA'cERY.

LoCAL LAw.

DugrAP and Another, Appellants. agazn.t DUNLAP and

Others, Respondents.
A question of fact, in a suit in equity, respecting the proprietary nterest in an entry of lands within the Military District of Ohio.
Rule of equity, that where land is sold as for a certain quantity; tL
Court of Equity relieves if the quantity be defective, only applicable to contracts for the sale of land in a settled country, uhere
the titles are complete, the boundaries determined. and the real
quantity known, or cipable of being ascertained by the vendor.

Feb. 9th.

THIS cause was argued by Mr Scott for the appellants.
and by Mr Doddndge for the respondents.

Feb. 17th.

Mr. Chief Justice MaRSBALL delivered the opinion of the
Court.

