586

CASES IN THE. SUPREMIE CoURT

1827.
'on
Chotard
V.

Pope.

Bradford for a printing office. Alexander Parker says, that
looking into the record books, while a trustee, he sawj
with-surprise, the entry under which Alexander M'Connell
claims, and on making inquiries from Col. Robert Patterson, also a trustee, was informed that the trustees had prevailed on James M'Connell to establish a tannery under cover of the fort, to tan bu0"aloe hides, and had, after his death,
appointed appraisers -to value his property. That the entry
appears in its present form, is the mistake of the clerk who
made it. 'He adds, that the records show, that 2n lot No. 18,
and out lot No. 38, were graited to James MConnell.
The entry under which the appellant claims lot No. 43,
does not purport to grant him that lot, but directs a valuaiffon in terms which import a former grant. No trace of that
former grant is, however, found, and the testimony is very
strong to provZ it was never made. The reasonableness of
reservinga public spring for public use; the concurrent opimon of all the settlers that it was so reserved ; the universal admission of all, that it was never understood that thle
spring lot was drawn by any pei,4on, the early appropriation
of it to public purposes; the fact that James MConnell actually claimed a different lot, added to the length of time
which has been permitted to elapse without any assertion of
title to this lot, are, we think, decisive against the appellant.
There was no error in dismissing the plaintiff's bill, and the
decree is affirmed, with costs.

[LocAL LAW.]
CHOTARD

and Others againstPoPE and Another

The act of May 8th, 1820, ch..595. "for the relief of the legal representatives of Henry Willis," did not authorize them to enter lands
within the tract surveyed and laid .off for ti town of Claiborne,
in the Slate of Alabama

OF THE UNITED STATES.

587

This cause was argued by Mr. E. Ltviihgston and Mr.
1827.
Webster for the plaintiffs, and by the Attorney General and
Chotard
Mr. Sampson for the defendants.'
Y.
Mr. Justice JOHNSON delivered the opinion of the Court.
Pope.
The rights.of the complainants in the land in litigation i Feb.7th.
this cause, depend upon the construction of the act of Cqngress of May 8th, 1820. passed for the relief of the legal re- Feb. 101h.
presentatives of Henry Willis. The words of that act under
which the complainants suppose themselves entitled to relief, are-these : "That the legal representatives of Henry
Willis be, and they are hereby authorized to enter without
payment,in lieu, &c. in any land office, &c. in the States of
Mississippi or Alabama., &c., a quantity of land nsot exceeding thirteen hundred acres, &c." Under the operation of
these w6ids, assuming the right to appropriate any unpatented land in the two States, the complainants have asserted
the privilege of entering a tract of land which covers the
site surveyed and laid off for the town of Claiborne, in the
State of Alabama. The proper officers have refused to issue the ordinary evidences of title,.and have gone on to.sell
out the town lots' according to law. This bill is filed aginst
the register of the land office, and the purchaser of one of
the town lots, to compel them to make titles to complainants4
On behalf of the United 'States, it is contended, that the
literal meaning of the terms of the act is 'limitea and re-strained by the contexti and by considerations arising out of
the general system of land laws of the United States, into
which this act is ingrafted-; and that, so construed, the right
granted is limited to that description of lands which arelia.
blL to be taken up at private sale.
And such is the opinion of this Court. That thelegislatue.
had distinctly in viewits general provisions.fordiipostng ofthe
unappropriated lands ofthe United Statsis distinctly shown,
in every line of the act under consideraton. First, theparty
is referred to ihe land officeto make his entry; he is then confi586. 1. Burr 474. DougZ. so. Loft's Rep. Sy,1.
1 B1. Comm. 87. 91. 1'Term Rep..728. C1.Co. Re'p. 8. 11
Co. Rep. 61. a Inst. POor. Plowd. 88.7-S.

a B Cranck

401.

CASES N T$E SUPREME COURT
nedtothe Iocationsdesignatedbythesurveys madeby the UniStedStates. Afterwhich,it goes on to enact, that "the-register
Chotard or registers of the land offices aforesaidshall issue the necessa1827.
V

Pope.

ry certificate or certificates, on the return of which to the general land office, a patent or patents shall issue." Here the
whole organization of the land office is brought into review:
and if then the term enter Can be shown to be restricted and
confined in its application to a particular clag or description
of lands, it wvilf follow, that when used in laws relating to the
appropriation of lands, it must lose its general and original
signification, and he confined to what may be called its
technical or legislative meaning.
The term entrj, as applied to appropriations of land, was
probably. borrowed from the State of Vilginia, in which we
find it used in that sense at a very remote period. Man3y cases will be round in the reports of the decisions of this Court,
in .which the title to western lands were drawn ir- question.
which will show how familiarly and generally the term is
used by Court and bar. Its sense, in the lcgal nomenclature of this counfry, is now as fixed and definite as that of
.many terms borrowed from the common law. It means that
act by which an individual acquires an inceptive right to a
portion of the unappropriated, soil of the cotutry,. by filing
his claim in the office of an officer known in the legislation of
several States by the ejiithet of an entry-taker, and corresponding very much in his functions with the registers of land
offices, under the acts of the United States. In the natural
progress of language. the term has been introduced into the
laws of the United'States, and, by refdrence to those laws,
we think the meaning of the'term will be found to be distinctly confined to the appropriation of lands under the laws
ofthe.United States, at private sale.
It is familiarly known, that the public lands are uniformly
brought into market in pursuance of a system Which commenced'in the year 179.6, and was perfected about the year
1800. .The lands are first surveyed, then advertised at public auction, and then, whatever remains unsold at public
auction, is otfered at private sale to the first applicant, at
stipulated prices. The act of IOO presents a full view of
the. course pursued on this subject, and the 7th section (vol.

589

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1827.
J. p. 388.) of that act distinctly shows that the right to enter
lands is confined to those lands which are offered at private
sale. The words, enter, enitry, and book of entries, will be Chotard
V.
Pope.
found in that section, all used, and exclusively used, with
reference to the appropriation of lands of that description.
Now, no one ever imagined that, under the general s3stem,
the right of appropriation by-entry in the register's office
extended to any appropriated lands, however those appropriations were legally made. The ideas on this subject
were so fixed in familiar use, that Congress felt no necessity
for further precaution in legislating on this subject in this
instance, than what is implied in the use of language belonging to their general system.
By looking through the laws making provisions for grants
of land from the year 1800 downwards, Congress will be
found repeatedly using the term entry in a sense which
leaves no doubt of the description of lands to which it is applied. In the act of the 3d March, 1817, (vol. 6, p. 286.)
entitled an act allowing further time for ezterng donation
rights to lands in the district of Detroit, it will be found, by
comparing the title with the enacting clause, that the sense
in which the term enUiy is used, is that of filing a claim with
"the register of the land office. But all the previous laws
on the subject show that the only lands that could be appropriated by filing a claim in the register's office, were those
which were offered at private sale. In the act of March,
1818, (vol. 6. p. 260.) for "authorizing certain-purchasers
qf public lands to withdraw their entries, and transfer the
moneys paid thereon," we find Congress familiarly using the
termwith reference to the same subject ; and still more explicitly in the act of March, 1819, entitled an act providing
for the correction of errors in making entries of lands at the
land offices, (vol. 6. p. 427.) until, finally, in the year 1820.
the very legislature which'passed this act in favour of'the
heirs of Willis, has furnished such explicit evidence of the
meaning which they attach to the grant of a right to enter.
as banishes every doubt.
In the 2d and 3d sections of the act of April 24th, 1820,
(vol. 6 . p. 486.) entitled, "an act making further provisions
for the sale of public Jands." will be found conclusive evi-'-

CASES IN'THE SUPREME COURT
18,27..
%," -%
74ason
V.

Matilda.

deuce, that the right toenter is identified with the right to
purchase at private sale, and confined to the appropriating of
such lands as may be legally appropriated by entry at the
register's office, from which are excluded all lands previo'usly appropriated, .,whether by public sale, or by being
withdrawn from the mass of lands offered for sale.
From the earliest date of the legislation of Congress on this
subject, there have been appropriations to the public use,
made by.withdrawing from this mass certain portions ofterritory for public seminaries, towns, salt springs, mines, and
other objects; and the particular land in controversy was
appropriated under, a previous-law, to wit, the act of April,
1-20, for the site of h town. We, therefore, hinl, that it
was not included"in'the right to appropriate -vested in the
complainants under the act on which they 'rely.
Before dismissing this subject, it may be-proper to remark,
"that the quaestibn considered is tdle only question that was
inade in argument. .The Court have also under consideration some. points arising on the form of the remedy, and the
state of the complamarit's right, on which subjects the
Court are to be considered as uncommitted by any inference
that may be drawn from their having disposed ofthe cause
upon the principal question.
Decree affirmed, with costs.

[LocAL LAW.]
MAsoN and Another,.Plaintiffs in Error, agatist MATILDA

and Oihers, Defendants in Error.
On the construcuon of the statute of Virginia, emancipating slaves
brought into that State in 179% unless the owner removing with

them should take a ceftii, oath within sixty days afiqer such removal, the fact of.the oath havipg been taken may be,,piesumed by
the lapse of twenty years,. aoconipanied with possesfion.

