CASES IN THE SUPRF.ME. COURT

570
18127.
Mason

[CoNVSTITUTiOltA.

V.

LAw.

Haile.
M.sox against HA1x.
T'he States nave a right to regulate, or abolish, nprisoinient fir
debt, as a part of the remedy for enforcing the performance of'
contracts.

Where the condition of a bond for'the jail limits, in'Rhode Island,
required the party to remain a true prisoner m the custody of the
]keeper of the prison, and within the limits of the prison, "until he.
shall be lawfullj discharged, without committing any manner of
escape or escapes during the time ofrestaint, then this obligation
to be void,.or else to remainin full force and virte ;" held, that a
disch2rg, under the insolvent laws of the State, obtained from the
proper Court, in pursuance of a resolution of the legislature,
and discharging the party from all his debts, &c. "and from all
imprisonment, arrest, and restraint of Ins person therefor,"--was
a lawful discharge, and that us going at large under it was na
breach of the condition of the bond.
THIS'was an action of debt, brought in the CircUit Court
of Rhode Island, upon two several bonds given by the defendant, Haile, to the plaintiff, Mason, and one Bates, whom
the plaintiff survives, one of which bonds was executed on
the 14th, and the other on the 29th of March, 1814. The
condition in both bonds was .the samE 'except as to dates
-and sums,' and is as follows:
"The condition of the above obligation is such, that if the
above bounden Nathan Haile, now a prisoner in the State's
jail, in Providence, within the county of Providence, at the
suit of Mason and Bates, do, and shall from henceforth con-

tinue to be a true prisoner, in the custody, guard, and safekeeping of Andrew Waterman, keeper of said prison, and in
the custody, guard, and safe keeping of his deputy, officers,
and servants, or some one of them, within the limits of said
prison, until he shall be lawfully discharged,.without committing any manner of escape or escapes, during the time

of restraint, then this obligation to be void, or else to remain
in full force and virtue."

OF THE UNITED STA'TES.
To the declaration upon these bonds, the defendant pleadad several pleas. the st,'4ance of which was, that in June,
1814, after giving the bonds, the defendant presented a petition to the legislature of Rhode Island, praying for relief,
and the benefit of an act passed in June, 1756, entitled "an
act for the relief of insolvent debtors," and that, in the mean
time, all proceedings against him for debt might be stayed,
and he be liberated fromjail, on giving bonds to return to jail
in case his petition shall not be granted. Upon this petition,
the legislature, in February, 1815, passed the following resolution : "On the petition of Nathan Haile, praying, for the
reasons therein stated, that the benefit ofan act, entitled, ' An
act for the relief of insolvent debtors,' passed in the year
1756, be extended to hin, voted, that said petition be continued till the next session of this assembly 1 and that, in the
mean time, all proceedings against him, the said Haile, on
account of his debts, be stayed; and that the said Haile -be
liberated from his present confinement, in the jail, in the
county of Providence, on his giving sufficient bond to the
sheriff of said county, conditioned to return to jail in case
said petition is not granted." That, on the 28th of Februa-,
ry, 1815, he gave sufficient bond. with surety, to the sheriff,
conditioned to return to jail, in case the petition shouldnot be
granted, and, thereupon, the sheriff did liberate and discharge him from his said confinementin said jail, and permit
him to go at large, out of said Waterman's custody, and the
custody of the keeper of said prison, his deputy, officersj
and servants, and out of the limits of said jail and jail-yard;
and he, said Haile, did, upon being so liberated, depart and
go at large out of the same accordingly, and so continued at
large and liberated, until the prayer of said petition was
granted by the legislature, at the February session, 1816, and
ever since, as lawfully he might. That, n February, 18 16,
the legislature, upon a due hearing, granted the prayer of
the defendant's petition, and passed the followi ig resolution: "On the petition of Nathan Haile, of Foster, praying.
for the reasons therein stated, that the, benefit of an act nassed in June, 1756, for the relief of insolvent debtors, may be
extended to him, vuted, that the prayer of the petition be

371
1827.
Mason
V.
Haile

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1827.
a

Mason
V.

Haile.

Fib. ote.

and the same is hereby granted." That the defendant afterwards, in pursuance of the -above resolution, and of the
laws of the State, received in due form, from the proper
Court, ajudgment, "that he should be, and thereby was, fully
discharged of and from all debts, duties, contracts, and demands, of every name, nature, and kind, outstanding against
him.-debtr due to the State aforesaid, and to the United
States, excepted, and from all imprisonment, arrest, and restraint of his person therefor."
To the pleas so pleaded the plaintiff demurrid, there was
a joinder in demurrer; and, on the argument of the cause,
the opimons of thejudges of the Court below were opposed,
upon the question whether the- defendant was entitled to
judgment, on the ground that the matters. set forth on his
part in his preas, were sufficient to bar the action, or whether the plaintiff was entitled to judgment uipon the demurrers andjoinders. The questibn was thereupon certified to
this Court for final deision.
The cause -was argued'by Mr. Webster and Mr. Blis,for
the plaintiff, and by Mr. WApple and Mr. Wheaton, for the
defendant.
On the part of the plaintiff, it was argued, that the acts
of the legislature of Rhode Island of Februafy, 1815, and
of February, 1816, liberating the person of the defendant
from irqprisonment, apd reviving in his favour an obsolete.
insolvent lact of the colonial legislature, passed in the year
1756, were (in the strictest sense) laws impairing the obli.
gation of contracts. 'They interfered with an actually vested right of the creditor, acquired under existing laws, and
entitling him to a particular remedy against the persop.of
his debtor. Upon the narrowest construction which had
ever been given to the prohibition in the constitution of the
Unit6l States, they impaired the obligation of the bonds
now in question, which, though a part of the judicial proceedings to enforce the execution of the primary contract,
were still " contracts," within the letter and spirit of the
constitution. The obligation of these contracts was entirely
destroyed.by these legislative acts, which were not general
Iws, but private acts, professedly intended for the relief of
the party in the particular case. They might even be con-

OF THE UNITED STATES.
sidered void on general principles, independent of the positive prohibition in the constitution, as being retrospective
laws interfering with vested rights. - The law of 1756- was
no longer in force in Rhode Island, and the reference to it
in the acts of 1815, and 1816; could only have -the effect of
reviving it in the particular.case, and was tantanioun-t to the
enactment of a new law with similar provisions. But the
acts now in question were clearly retrospective acts of legislation, impairing the obligation of contracts in existen e
when the acts were passed, and, consequeptly, the case fell
within the -principles determined by the. majority of the
Court.in Ogden v. Saunders."
For the defendant, it was insisted, that although the act of
1756 was not 'in force (as a general and permanent law)
when the bonds were given, yet the statutes of 1798, and
1812, provide for relief in cases of insolvency; which is
always granted by referring to the act.of 1756, and reviving
its provisions in favour of' the individual. These.statutes,
together with the eitablished usage under them, making
part of the,unwritten law of the State, form a system or .code
of insolvent laws, authorizing the debtor to petition in the
manner prescribed by the act of 1756, constituting the legislature a Court to bear and determine it as a case between
debtor -and creditor,b and requiring an assignment of the
debtors property for the benefit of all his creditors. The
local legislature possesses sovereign power over the remedy,
in its own Courts, for the enforcement of contracts made
within its own territory;c and the acts under which the pri-.
son bonds were given,as well as those under which the discharge was obtained, aria part of the process laws of the
State, which it has a right to make, alter, and repeal, at its
pleasure. The bonds in question could hardly be considered as contractas ithin the meaning of the constitutional pro.
hibition, since there is but one voluntary party to them.
They are rather a part of the judicial process fot'r enforcing
the performance of contracts, and the collection of debts.
a Attie, p. 213.
b Olney v. Andre*s, 3 Dai. ,08. Calder v. Bull, 3 Dali. 88.
e Sturges v. Crownislfield, 4 Wheat. Rep. S00, 201.

379
1827.
Mason
V.
Haile.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827.

v

Mason
V.

Haile.

TheJegislative resolution of February, 1815, is npt void
on account of its dependence on, the act of insolvency of
1816. because the latter, though it professes to discharge
both person and property, (and, therefore, may be void in
part,) is not entirely void, it being a present discharge executed, and, therefore, void *only for the excess. But, admitting the act of 1816 to be entirely void, that of 181.5
has no necessary connexion with, or dependence upon it.
If the resolution of 1815 would have been a valid discharge
from imprisonment in close jail, it must be a valid discharge
from the limits, as it does not impaiw the contract for the
liberty of the yard. It does not impair it, because that
contract is part of a general system, or code of laws, regulating the remedy in regard to imprisonment for debt, and
taken in connexion with that system, it is plain, that the
legislature, when they provided the bond as a security -for
the creditor, did not mean to deprive themselves of the
-power of entirely liberating the debtor. The words " lawfu! discharge" are general, and necessarily include all discharges which were lawful previous to t[k execution of the
bond. And even if the resolution of f16 is to be consithe sentence of a Court of justice, but as a spedered.not a's
cial law, future in its operation, it does not impair the obligation of the contract, because the bond, by necessary construction, must be taken to refer to future laws, and is to be
governed by the laws of the State, general or s 4cial,-in
force at the time of the discharge. "Whatever these laws
provide shall be a "lawful discharge," is a "lawful discharge," within the meaning of the laws under which the
bonds were taken, since all these laws are made by the
same-legislative authority, having sovereign control over the
subject matter.
Mr. Justice THouPsoi delivered the opinion of the Court.
The question in this case arises upon the following certificate of a division of opinion of the judges of the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Rhode Island.
"This cause came on to be heardi and was argued by couniel
on both sides, and thereupon the following question occurred: viz. whether, upon the amended pleas in this case, severa ly pleaded to the first and second counts of the

OF THE UNITED STATES.
plaintiff's declaration, and to winch there are demurrers,
and joinders in demurrer, the defendant is entitled to judgment, on the ground that the matters set forth therem, on
the part of the defendant, are sufficient to bar the action,
or whether the plaintiffis enfitled, upon said demurrers and
oinders, to judgment? Upon which question the Court was
divided in opinion."
It is not understood by this Court, that any question, as to
the sufficiency of the pleas, in point of form, is drawn under
examination, but simply, whether, upon the merits, the matter thereby set up is sufficient to bar the action. The action
is founded upon two several bonds, given by the defendant
to the plaintiff, and one Bates, whom the plaintiff survives,
one dated the 14th, and the other the 29th of March, 1814.
The condition in both bonds is the same, except as to dates
and sums, and is as follows: "The condition of the above
obligation is such, that if the above bounden Nathan Haile,
now a prisoner in the State's jail, in Providence, within the
county of Providence, at the suit of said Mason and Bates,
do, and shall from henceforth continue to be a true prisoner,
in the custody, guard, and safe-keeping of Andrew Waterman, keeper of said prison, and in the custody, guard, and
safe keeping of his deputy, officers, and servants, or some
one of them, within the limits of said prison, until he shall
be lawfully discharged, without committing any manner of
escape or escapes during the time of restraint, then this obligation to be void, or else to remain in full force and virtue."
The defence set up by the pleas, to show there has been
no breach of the condition-of the bond, is substantially, that
in June, 1814, after giving the bond in question, the defendant presented a petition to the legislature of Rhode Island,
praying relief, and the benefit of the insolvent act of 1756;
and that, in the mean time, all proceedings against his person and estatei for the collection" of debts, might be stayed,
and he be liberated from jail, on giving bonds to return in
case his petition should not he granted. Upon this petition,
the legislature, in February, 1816, passed the following resolution: "On the petition of Nathan Haile, praying, for
the reasons therein stated, that the benefit of an act, entitled,
an act for the relief of insolvent debtors, passed in the year

X65
1827.
Mason
V.
Haile.

CASES IN THE SUPREME
1827
w'Vw
Mason
Haile.

OURT

1756. be extended to him, voted, that said petition be contintted until the next session of this assembly; and that, in
the mean time, all proceedings against the said Haile, on
account of his debts, be stayed, and that the said Haile be
liberated from his present imprisonment, in the jail, in the
county o" Providence, on his giving sufficient bond to the
sberiff of the county, conditioned to return to jail in case said
petition is not granted." The defendant, after the passing
of this resolution, gave the bond required by it, and, on the
28th of the same month, was discharged. from imprisonment,
and has ever since been it large, out of the custody of-the
sheriff. In February, 1816, the legislature, 'upon a due
hearing, granted the prayer of the defendant, and passed the
following resolution: "On the petition of Nathan Haile,
of Foster, praying,. for the reasons -therein stated, that the
beneft of an act, passed in June; 1756, for the relief of insolvent debtors, may be extended to him, voted, that the
prayer of the said petition be,.and the same is hereby granted." By the granting of the prayer ofthe petition, the condition of the second bond given to the slwriff was complied
with, and the bond became extinguished.
The defendant afterwards proceedea to take the benefit of
the ins6lvept act revived in his favour, according to the statute provisions, and received in due form from the proper
-Court, ajudgment, "that he should be, and thereby was fully
discharged of and from all debts, contracts and-demands, of
every name, nature, and kind, outstanding against him, debts
due to the State aforesaid, or to the UnIted States, excepted,
and from all imprisonment, arrest, and restraint of his person therefor." The insolvent act of 1756 is not considered
in force as a general and permanent law, but-the legislature.
of Rhode Island has been in the constant habit of entertaining petitions, like the present, and has by the general law of
1798,,(now in force,) prescribed the mode by'which such petitions are to be regulated, and in case. of granting the prayer of the petition, the course is to pass an act.or resolution,
giving the benefit of the act of 1.756 0 the petitioner, and thus,
in effect, reviving it for-his particular benefit. So, that the
mode pursued to obtain the discharge of the defendant, as
set out in the pleas, was according to the established course

01 THE UNITED STATES.

$27.
ul proceeding in cases of insolvency, and 'in conformity to
the laws of Rhode Island, by which the defendant was dis- \
M-n
charged from all his contracts, and from imprisonment.
Haile.
The effect of this discharge upon tne original judgment
against Haile is not now drawn in question. The only in- Condition pt
quiry is,.whether he has violated the condition of his bon.ds the bond,wheof March, 1814, by going at large, under the authority and by the tlse- acsanction of the resolutions of the legislature, as before sta- charge,
cording to the
ted. His bond req~iired him to remain a true prisoner, until insolvent laws
of the State,
he souldbe
lwful
anYanddteuag
the usate
he holde azoriy
discha'rged,
without committingan
manner of escape during the time of restraint. The bond and practif
is not that he shall remain a true prisoner until the debt under ther.
shall be paid. Nor is there any thing upon the face of the
bond, or if we look out-of it, to the known and established
laws and usages in that State, calling for such a construction. A lawful discharge, in its general signification, will
extend to, and be satisfied by, any discharge obtained under
the legislative authority of the State. And it is not unrea.
sonable to consider such prison bonds as given subject to
the ordinary and well known practice in Rhode Island, for
the legislature to entertain.petitions in the manner pursued
by the defendant, to obtain'the benefit of the insolvent act of
1756, in the manner in which these petitions are received
and proceeded upon, as prescribed by the act of 1798. And,
indeed, this, cannot strictly be considered a private contract
between the parties, but rather as a statute engagement, imposed by an act of the legislature, vnd as a part of the process under.which the defendant was held as a prisoner.
And with the full knowledge of this regulstibn and practice,
it is hardly to, be presumed, that such discharges were not
understood to be lawful discharges. And the same remarks
will apply to the term escape n the bond, which can mean
no more than P departure from the limits without lawful auSthority. SuppQire the legislature, after the executionof this
bond, had enlarged the jail limits9 It surely would not have
been an escape for the defendant to have availed himsef of
the enlarged limits, and gone beyond his former bounds.
And yer, ;f the limits prescribed at the time the bond was
executed, are to govern the effiect and operation of the bond,
it would be an e~cape. Such bonds may w6ll be considered
48
VOL, XIL

CASES IN TH

SUPREME COURT

as an enlargement of the prison limits, and a mere modification of the im'prisonment, according to the provisions of the
laws of Rhode IWand.
Mason
V.
Can it he doubted but-the legislatures of the States, so far
Hae.
The State le- as relates to their own process, have a right to abolish imgislatureshave prisonment for debt altogether, and that such law9 might exWe are
sovereigpow t end to present, as well as future imprisonment
been
ever
has
States
in
the
power
a
that
such
aware
not
subject of impnisonment for
debt, on pro- questioned. And if such a general law would be valid uncess from their der the constitution of the United States, where is the proS1827.

%~'v-.

own Courts.

hibition to be found, thit denies to the State of Rhode
Island the right of applying the same remedy to individual
cases9 This is a measure which must be regulated by the
views of policy and expediency entertained by the State
legislatures. Such laws act merely upon the ren...Ay, and
that in pait only. They do not take away the entire remedy, but only so far as imprisonment forms a part of such
remedy. The doctrine of tins Court in the case of Sturges
v. Crownrnshteld, (4 Wheat. Rep. 200.) applies with full
force to the present case. " Imprisonment of the debtor,"
say the Court, "may be a punishment for not performing
his contract, or may be allowed as a mean for inducing him
to perform~it.. But a State may refuse tr inflict this punishment, or may withhold it altogether, and leave the contract
in full force. Imprisonment is no part of the contract, and
simply to release the. prisoner, does not impair its obliga-tion."
light, therefore, the question is viewed, no
discharge,
The-this
in
case . In whatever
bawfse
reach of the condition of the *bond, according to its true
was a
sense and interpretation, has been committed. The liberadischarge,
within thecondition of the tion of.the defendant from confinement, on his giving bond,
bnd or 'b to the sheriff to return tojail in case his petition for a discharge should not be granted, was sanctioned
by the due
exercise of legislative power, and was anatogous to extending to him more enlarged jail limits, and would not be con.
sidpred an escape. And both this and the final discharge,
so far, at all events, as it related to the imprisonment of the
defendant, affected the remedy in part only, and wis in the
due and ordinary exercise of the powers vested in the legisJature of Rhode Island, and was a lawful discharge, and no

370)

OF THE UNITED *TATES.

escape, and of course, no breach of the condition of the
bond in question.
It must, accordingly, be certified to t$e Circuit Court,
that the matters set forth in the defendatVs4i1ended pleas,
are sufficient to bar the plaintiff's actioir.
Mr. Justice WASHINGTON dissented.

It has never been

my habit to deliver dissenting opinions in cases where ita
been my misfortune to differ from those which have been
pronounced by a majority of this Court. Nor should I do
so upon the present occasion, did'I not believe, that the opinion just delivered is at variapce with the fundafnental principles upon which the cases of Sturges v. Crowntnshield,
and Ogden v. Saunders, have been decided. A regard for
my own consistency, and that, too, upon a great constitutional question, compels me to record the reasons upon
which my dissent is founded.
The great, the intelligible principle, upon which those
cases were decided, is, that-a retrospectiveState law, so far ag
it operates to discharge, or to vary the terms ofan existingcontract, impairs its obligation, and is, for that reason, a violation
of the tenth section of the first article of the constitution of the
United States, but that a law, which is prospective m its
operation, has not this effect, and, consequently, is not forbidden by that instrument. But, if I rightly understand the
opinion pronounced in this case, and the facts upon which
it is founded, this. principle is subverted, and the distinctioi
between retrospective and prospective laws, in their application to contracts, is altogether disregarded. The facts
are, that the bond upon which this action is brought, bears
date the 14th of March, 1814, and the condition is, that the
defendant, then a prisoner in the State's jail in Providence,
at the suit of the glaintiff, shall continue to be a true prisoner, in the custody and safe keeping of the keeper of the
said jail, within the limits Qf the said prison, until he shall
be lawfully discharged. Upon the petition of the defendant
to the legislature of Rhode Island, to extend to him the benefit of a certain act passed in the year 1756, an act was
passed in February. 1815, which liberated hm from his confinement in the jail aforesaid. on his gwing a bond fo retrnt

i$'r
14oa
V.,
Haile.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827
kand,

?lplson
Haile,

to the said jail in case his petition should not be granted,
by a subsequent act passed in the following year, he was
discharged from his debts, upon a surrender previously made
of all his estate, for the benefit of his creditors. The plea
adnts, that the defendant did depart from the limits of the
jail, and justifies the Plleged escape under the above acts of
the legislature. The opinion considers those acts as constitutional, and decides that the defendant was lawfully discharged within the terms of his bond.
\The case of btWrges R Crownnmshteld arose upon a contract for the pa jment of ?noney, from which the debtor was
discharged under a subsequent State insolvent law, and this
discharge was plead in bar of the action upon the contract.
This Court decided the plea Ito be insufficient,. uRgn the
ground, that the law upon which it was founded imafaired
the obligatioD of the contract, which was entered into previous to his discharge. The obligation of the' contract upon
which the present su'it was brought, is not to pay money,
but to continue a-trueprsoner within the limit; of the jailin
whieh he was then confined. A subsequent act of the legislature discharges him from his confinement, and authQ.izes
him to go at large, of which law he availed himself, and under which he justifies the alleged breach of the condition of
his bond.
A contract, we are informed by the above case, is an
agreement by one or more persons to. do, or not to do, a particular thing; and the law which compels a performaqce of
such contract, constitutes its obligation. The thing to be
done in that case was, to pay money ; and in this, it is, to
continue a true prisoner ; and, at the time it was concluded,
the existing law of Rhode Island required him to perform
this engagement. A discharge from his.debts in the former
case, by a subsequent law of the State, impaired that obligation; but this'obligation, it is said, is not impaired by a
subsequent law which discharges him from confinement, as
-well as from all his debts. If the principle which governs
the two .cases can be reconciled with each other, the course
of reasoning by which it is to be effected is quite too subtle
for my mind to comprehend it.
It was stated, in the case alluded to, that imprisonment of

OF THE UNITED STATES,
1827.
the debtor forms no part of the contract, and, consequently,
that a law which discharges his person from coifinement 1. w
Ma.on
does not impair its obligation. This I admit, and the principle was strictly applicable to a contract for. he payment of Hade.
money. But can it possibly apply to a case where the restraint of the pervon is the sole objet of the contract, and
contimuing withmn the limits of the przson the thing. contracted to be done?
I admit the right of a State to put an end to imprisonment for debt altogether, and even to discharge insolvent
debtors from their debts, by the enactment of a bankrupt
law for that purpose. I am compelled, by the case of
Sturges v. Crowninshteld, to make this latter admission, and
I voluntarily make the former. But what I insist upon is,
that if the law in either case is made to operate retroac-tively upon contracts, to do what the law discharges the
party from doing, it impairs the obligation of the contract,
and is so far invalid.
I iill now briefly consider the reasons which are assigned
for distinguishing this case from that of Sturges v. Crowvmnshield.
It is said, that the bond in this case is not, in point of
law, a contract, since there is but one voluntary party to it,
and a contract canniot exist unless there be at least two
parties to it. My answer is, that the law of Rhode Island
which authorized the giving of the bond, made, the creditor
the other party, as much so as creditors and legatees are
made parties to a bond, which the law requires an executor to give. If this answer be not considered as satisfactory, I will add another, which is, that the creditor has
adopted it as his contract by putting it in suit.
Again, it is said, that the acts which discharged this dcfendant from his imprisonment, and even from the debt altogether, are not retrospective in their operation, and are not so
considered in the State where they were passed.
How they are considered in that State, is more than this
Court can judicially know, and, consequently, that circum.
stance cannot here form the basis of a judicial detern'ination.
All that we do iudiciallv know is, that the act of 1756

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
.1827. was a temporary law, and expired nearly halfa century ago..
%a, -a. It was, then, in the year 1815; as if it' had never existed.
Mason
.A act in this year to revive it, either as a general law, or
V.
Haile. fdr the purpose of benefitting a particular individual, is
the enactmiat of a new law, which derives all its force
from the will of the legislature which enacts it, and not
from that of the legislature to which the expired law owed
its temporary existence. Is it possible that argument, or
authorities, Vean be reqired to prove this proposition?
Would the argument upon which the contrary proposition
is founded have been adopted in the case of Sturgss v.
Crownmshteld, if the discharge had been under an act passed subsequent to the contract, which revived an old expired insolvent or bankrupt law? And am I to understand,
that contractsforthe payment of money, as well as fr the
restraint of the person of the debtor, may now be discharged
in the State of Rhode Island at any time,-by an act to revive the act of 1756 in favour'of debtors for whose benefit
it may be'revived ? if this be the effect of the present decision, (and I confess f cannot perceive how it can be otherwise,) the decision in the case of Sturges v. Crawninsield
will avail nothing in that State, o in any other of the States
in whose code an old deceased insolvent law can be found,
which, in the days of its existence, authorized a legislative
discharge of a debtor from Ins debts, or from his prison
bounds bond.
Lastly, it ii said, that this law does -nomore than enlarge
the limits of the prison rules, within which the defendant
bound himself to continue. And can it lbe contended, that
a law which has this. .effect does not vary (and if it does
so, it impairs,) the t~rms'of the contract entered into by the
defendant 9 For what object was he restricted to certain
limits, if not to coerce him to pay the debt for which the
plaintiff~had a judgment and execution against him? And
is nkot this object defeated, and the whole value of ls prison
bounds contract destroyed, by enlarging the limits to those
of the State, of the United States, or of the four quarters of
the globe? I shall add nothing further- I have prepared no
written opinion; my object in declaring my dissent from
that which has been delivered, being not so much to prove

O1 THE UNITED STATES.
tfat opitioii to be wrong, as to vindicate my own consistency.

383
1827.
Columbian

Certificate,'that the matters sei forth in the defendant's
pleas are sufficient to bar the plaintiff's actionk

[INsu~Rcz.]
INSURANCE COMPANY, Paintifis in Error,
agatnst CATLXTT, Defendant in Error.

The .COLUMBIAN

A policy for l0,000 dollars, upon a voyage "at and from Alexandria
to St. Thomas, and two other ports in the West Indies, and back
to her port ofdischarge, in the United States, upon all lawful goods
and merchandise, laden or to be laden on board thb ship, &c. beginng the adventure upon the said goods and merchdndise from
tbualading at Alexandria, a11 contifung the same until the said
goods and merchandise shailbe safel; landed at St. Thomas, &c.
and the United States aforesaid :"is art insurance upon every successive cargo taken on board in the course of the voyage out and
home, so as to cover the risk of a return cargo, the proceeds of the
sales of the outward cargo.
Such a policy covers an insurance of 10,000 dollars during the whole
voyage out and home, so long as the assured has that amount of
property on board, without regard to the fact of a portion of the
original cargo having been safely landed at an intermediate pozt
before the loss.
Where the cargo, in the course of the outward voyage, and before its
termination, was permanently separated from the ship by the total
wreck of the latter, and the cargo being perishable in its nature,
though not injured to one half its value, it became necessary to sell
it, the further prosecution of the voyage with the same ship or cargo became impracticable. held, that this was a techical total loss,
on account of the breaking up of the voyage.
Whether a delay at a particular port constitutes a deviation, depends
upon the usage of trade with reference to the object of selling the
cargo. Where different ports are to be visited f;r this purpose, the
owner has a right to limit the price at which the master may sell, to
a reasonable extent, and a delay at a particular port, if bovafld

Ins. Co.

v.
Catlett.

