OF THE UNITED STATES.
1827.
Martin
V.

MARTIN, Plafntirm Error,v. MoTT, Defendant :n Error.
[CO11STITUtTowAL LAw.]
The authority to decide whether the exigencies contemplated in the
Constitution of the United States, and the act of Congress of
.1795, ch. 101. in which the President has authority to call forth
the militia, "to execute the laws of the Union, suppress insurrections, and repel invasions," have arisen, is exclusively vested in the
President, and his decision is conclusive upon all other persons.
Although a militia man, who refused to obey. the orders of the President, calling him into the public service under the act of 1795, is
not, m the sense of that act, "employed in the service of the United States," so as to be subject to the rules and articles of war;
yet he is liable to be tried for the offence under the 5th section of
the same act, by a Court Martial called under the authority of the
United States.
Where, in an action of replevin, the defendant, being a Deputy Marshal of the United States, avowod and justified the taking the
plamtiff'a goods, by virtue of a warrant issued to the Marshal of
the District, to collect a fine imposed on him by the judgment of a
Court Martial, described as a General Court Martial composed of
officers of the militia of the State of New-York, in the service of
the United States, (*ix in number, and naming them,) ddly organized and convened, by general orders, issued pursuant to the act
of Congress of February £8, 1795, ch. 101., for the trial of ihose
of the militia of the State of New-Yoxk, ordered into the service
of the United States in the third military district, who had refused
to rendezvous and enter into the service of the United States, in
obedience to the orders of the Commander in Chief of the State
of Neff-York, of the 4th and 29th of August, 1814, iksued in
compliance with the requisition of the President made in pursuance of the same act of Congress, and alleging that the plaintif,
being a private in the niilitia, neglected and refused to rendezvous,
&c., and was regularly.tried by the said General Court Martial,
and duly convicted of the said delinquency - Held, that the avowry
was good.

ERROR to the Court for the Trial of.Impeacbments andI
Correction -of Errors of :the State of New-York.

Mot

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827.
v
Mfartin
Mott.

This was an action of replevin, originally brought m the
Supreme Court of New-York by the defendant in error,
Mott, against the plaintiff in error, Martin, to which an
avowry was filed, containing, substaiitially, the followmg. ailegations- That on the 18th of June, 1812, and from
thence until the 25th of December, 1814, there was public and open war between the United States of America,
and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, and
its dependencies, and the citizens and subjects of the said
countries respectively; and that during the continuance of
the said war, to wit, on the 4th day of August 1814; and
also, on the 29th day of the same month, in the same yosr,
at the city of New-York, to wit, at Poughkeepe, in the
county of Dutchess, his Excellency Daniel D. Tompkins,
Esq. was then and there Governor of the State of NewYork, and Commander ip Chief of the mailitia thereof, and
being so Governor and Commander in Chief, be, twe said
Daniel D. Tompkins, as such Governor and Commanudr in
Chief, on the several days last aforesaid, and in tie year
aforesaid, and at the place aforesaid, upon the previous requisitions of the President of the United States, for that purpose made, and to him directed,-as such Governor and Ccznmander in Chief, did issue two several general order) bearing date respectively on the said 4th and 20thdays of August,
in the- year aforesaid, in and by which said two general
orders, among other things, the said Daniel D. Toniepkins,
as Governor and Commander in Chiefas aforesaid, pursuant
to such requisitions and in complianc'e therewith, did ditail
certain parts and. portions of thd militia of the State, as be
was required to do, in and by the requisition of the President of -the United States, as aforesaid, and did order the
militia so detailid' into the service of the United States of
America, at the city of New-York, within the third military
district of the said United States, as in and by the sqid two
general orders may more fully appear. That the said Jacob
E. Mott, on the several days, and in the year aforesaid and
until the 25th day of December, in the same year, being a
.white citizen of the said State of New-York, inhabiting and
tesiding within the ifme, and between the ages of ighteeft

F THE UNITED STATES
n4 forty-five yoaar, was liable to do military'duty in the militia of the Raid State, and was a private ip the militig. of the
sgd Stqof that'was so detailed and ordered into the service
,"pf
the United Statei aforesaid, and as such private in said
,miitia wZ bound to do military duty in the militia of the
said State so detailed and ordered into, the service of the
United $tates. in the third military district of the United
$14tes. That on the 24th of September, 1814, Morgan
".wis, Esq. was a. Major General, commanding the army
of tho United Statei, of the third military district of the

said United States, in which district the militia of the State
of Naw.York, detailed and ordered irato the service of the
Uited States as aforesaid, had blpen ordered to do military
duty in the service of the United States. And the said
Morgan Lewis, so being a Major General, and cominoding
as aforasaid, did, on the day, and in the year last Aforesaid,
&aeach Major General and commander, issue genergl orders
to zonvene a general Court Martial for the purpose tn the
sid oyders expressed, composed of so many, and suck iniIitiaofficers in theserce of the Unite'd States, in the said
tbrrd military)district, as in the said orders are mentioned S
it having been -then and there considered and adjudgeA by
the said Morgan Lewis, that a greater number of officerp
tuhW those detailed on the said Court Martial, could not be
spared from the service of the United States without manifast injury to the said service, which said general orders
are in the words and figures following, to wit: "Adjutant
General's Office, 3d M. D. New-York, 24th September,
1814. General Orders. A General Court Martial, under
the aet of Congress of the 28th of February, 1795, fot the
trial of those of the militia of the State of New-York, ordered into the service of the United States, in the third
military district, who have failed to rendezvous pursuant to
orders, will convene on Monday, the 26th instant, at Harmony Hall, and will consist of the following members,"
.tenumerating them, being sii in number,.) wvhich General
Court Martial was continued (although varied as to its
members) by various general orders set out in the avowry.

18%7.
,
y.

ot.

-CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827.

until the 13th of May, 1818. -That the said J. E. Motti
Sbeing so liable, &c. did fail, neglect, and refuse to rendezvous
Martin and enter into the servce of tbe United States, i obeV.

Mott-

dience to the orders issued by the Governor of the State,
on the requisifion of the President- of the United States,
and in compliance therewith. That on the SOth'of May;
1818, the said Court Martial'convened at Poughkeepsle,

within the said third military district at which time and
place, te said Jacob E. Mott was duly summoned to appear
before the said Court Martial, and did then. and there appear before the said Court Martial, and make his defence
to the charges alleged "agahist him as aforesaid. That. the
said General Court Martial then and there tried the said
Jacob E. Mott for having failed, neglected, and refused to
rendezvous, and enter into the service of, the United States,
in obedience to tle orders aforesaid, issued in compliance
with'the requisition aforesaid, and after hearing the proofs
and allegations, as well on the part of the United States, as
oh the patrt of' the said Jacob E. Mott, then and there convicted the said Jacob E. Mott of the said delinquency ; and
thereupon the said General C6urt Martial imposed the aiim
of 96 dollars as a fine on the said Jacob E. Mott, for having
thus failed, neglected, and refused to rendezvous, and enter
ihto the service of the United States, when thereto required
as aforesaid. That before the said, last mentioned day, to
wit, on the 25th of December, 1814, a treaty of peace was
made and concluded between the Uhited States and the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and. Ireland and its dependencies; and that the said Morgan Lewis, and- Daniel
D. Tompkins, the Major Generals who issued the -rders
organizing, convening, and -continuing thg said General
Court Martial as aforeqaid were not continued as such Majbr Generals as aforesaid, in the service of.the United.States
aforesaid, at the time herein next afterwards mentioned, nor
was there any other officer of equal arade with the said
last mentioned Major Generals in the service of the United
States, commanding in the military district aforesaid, at the
time the.said Court imposed the fine and sentence.aforesaid.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1827.
.on the said plaintiff as aforesaid, by whom the said sentence
-..',/
could be approved, but that the said fine, sentence, and ,
proceedings of the said Court Martial, so far as they re- Mart.
Mott.
lated -to the case of the said Jacob E. Mott, were duly approved b) the President of the United States, before the
same were certified by the President of the Court Martial
aforesaid, to -the Marshal of ine Southern District of the
State of New-York, as hereinafter, mentioned, and before
the 4th day of June, 1814. That the President of the said
General Court Martial, afterwards, to wit, on the day and
year, and at the place last aforesaid, in pursuance to the
statute of the United States, in such case made and provided, did make a certificate in writing, whereby be did,
under his liind, certify to the Marshal of the Southern District of New-York, that the sum of 96 dollars was imposed
as a fine on said Jacob E. Mgtt, for having thus failed, neglected, and refused, to enter the service of the United
States, when hereunto required as aforesaid, and that the
said Jacob E.Mott was sentenced by the said General Court
Martial, on failure of the payment of said fine imposed on
him, to twelve months imprisonment.
The avowry then proceeded to state the authority of the
plaintiff in error, Martin, as Deputy Marshal, to execute
such certificate, and that, in the execution thereof, he took
the said goods, &c.
To this avowry the plaintiff in replevin demurred, and
assigned the following causes of demurrer:
-1. The said defendant, in his said avowry, does not allege
•hat the President of the United States had adjudged that
there was an invasion, or imminent danger of an invasion ; or
that any of the exigencies had occurred, in which the President is empowered to call out the militia by the Constitution
of the United States.
2. The said defendant in the said avowry does not aver
that any such previous requisition upon the Governor was,
in fact, made by the President of the United States; no such
requisition is set forth, nor is the date or substance thereof.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827.
\

-4

Martin
v.
itt.

or the number of militia thereby required, stated in the said
avowry

S. The said avowry does iot state that the said militia
were ordered into actual service, in complitince with such
requisition; nor does it appear that the militia were required
by said requisition to rendezvous or act within the territory
of the United States.
4; The said avowry doe's not sufficiently show or set forth
either the partiwulars or substance of the said orders of the
Governor of the State of New-York, in the said avowry
ihtntioned, in such manner that it can appear whether the
gard orders. or either of them, directed all those of the rhilitia, called out thereby, to rendezvous or enter the service
of the United States upon the requisition of -thesaid 'resident, solely, or -hether the said orders also called out a
part of the same militia, by, under, and pursuant to the authlrity and laws of the State of New-rorik, WithOut the requisition of the said President, and without designating
which were ordered to rendezv-oug and enter the service by
tht said respective authorities.
5. The said avowry does ndt show that the two Wi several orders of the Governor were tumulktlve, etOr!natory
of, auxilialy tb, or in any vtay tbonectd with each other;
nor whethe bbth of the said -orders eiebraced the safie or
different persons, and required the same or difllrent -&fti;
nor with stch certainty thatit can appear whether a disobedience of the 'other or both of the said otters vould be the
same, a aiferent or an additional offence, subject to the
same or diffierentjurisdiction; nor does it state the numbtr
of the militia -called out by the said orders, so that it can
appear whether in that respect the said orders were in compliance with the requisitions of the President, nor by which
of the said orders the said plaintiff was called forth into the
service of the United States ; i all Wfich the said avowry
is uncertain and ifsufficient.
6. The said-avowry is double and uncertain, inasmucli as
therein the said plaintiff is charged with having committed
two several offences in the disobedience of the two said se-

OF THE UNITED STATES.
veral orders of the Governor, without showing that both offences were necessary for the trial and conviction of the
said plaintiff, or any reason why the said orders should be
so blended together; and because the said orders are so
blended together without showing any dependence upon
each other, or any connexion between them.
7. The general orders in the said avowry set forth,
under and by virtue of which the said Court Martial was
convened, and tried, convicted, and fined the said plaintiff.
are deficient, uncertain, vague, inoperative, void, and of no
effect, and conferred upon the said Court Martial, or the
members thereof, no jurisdiction over the said plaintiff, or
the offence with which he is charged in the said avowry, in.
asmuch as the said last mentioned general orders convened
said Court Martial for the trial of those of the militia of the
State of New-York, ordered into the service of the United
States, in the third military district, who had failed to rendezvous pursuant to orders, without spedifying in any manner when, by whom, to whom, or by wh it authority, or in
what manner such orders should have been issued in regard
to the said militia, or when such militia had failed to rendezvous, or whether the orders pursuant to which said militia
should have failed to rendezvous, were the same orders calling said militia into service in said third military district, or
required them to rendezvous elsewhere or otherwise.
8. The said defendant in his said avowry states, that the
said Court Martial was duly convened in pursuance of the
said several general orders, in the said avowry set forth, on
the 24th day of October, 1814, a day long before the last of
the said general orders, by which the said Court is stated to
have been duly convened, was issued, as appears by the sajd
avowry, all which is repugnant and contradictory.
0. The orders for convening the said C6urt Martial, as in
the said avowry set forth, are further uncertain, because by
the said orders, tle said Court IMartial is stated to have been
convened under the act of Congress of he 28th day of Feb
ruary, 1795, without showing which of the atts of Cbngresi
of that date is intended.
Vol.. XIT

1827.
Martin
V.
lIJott.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1827.
.

Martin

10. The trial of the said plaintiff by the said Court Martial, as appears by the said avowry, was in a time of profound peace.

V.

Mott.

11. The said Court Martial had no power or authority
under the said general orders by which they were convened,
to try, convict, and fine the said plaintiff, for having failed,
neglected, and refuied to rendezvous and enter the service
of the United States, in obedience to the orders aforesaid,
issued in compliance with the requisitions aforesaid.
12. The said Court Martial, consisting of less than thirteen members, had no power nor authority to try, convict,
and fine the said plaintiff, at the time said trial was had, it
being a time of peace, without showing that thirteen militia
officers could not at that time be spared without manifest
injury to the service.
13. By the said avowry it doth not appear whether all or
how many of the persons detailed by the said general orders
as members of the said Court Martial, continued to remain
in the service of the United States at the time when the said
plaintiff was tried, or that the places of such as had resigned were supplied by others appointed in their stead;
or in what manner the said Court was duly convened; or of
how many members it was then composed; and whether all
the persons who acted as members of the said Court Martial, at the time when the said plaintiff was tried, were then
commissioned officers of the militia, of competent rank, and
in the service of the United States.
14. The said avowry does not allege that the or.ers by
which the said Court Martial was continued in servce until
further orders, remaihed still unrevoked at the time when
the said plaintiff was tried.
15. The said avowry does not show in what manner,
when, or by whom the said plaintiff was duly summoned to
appear before the said Court Martial.
16. The said avowry does not show at what time the
said Morgan Lewis and Daniel D. Tompkins were discontinued, nor but that they were such major generals commandingas aforesaid, onthe said 13th day of May, 1818; n6r

OF THE UNITED STATES.
bjit that at the time of the said trial there was a major general, of equal rank with the said Morgan Lewis and Daniel
the
D. Tompkmns, commanding an army in the service of
United States, or some other officer of competent authority,
in some military division of territory comprising the said
third military district, by whom the sentence of said Court
Martial could have been approved.
17. By the said sentence of the said Court Martial, as
the saine is in the said avowry set forth, the said Gerard
Steddiford, president of the said Court, had no power or
authority to issue such a certificate as i5 in the said avowry
mentioned, inasmuch as the said certificate is variant from
the said sentence.
1,8. The said defendant does not in his said avowry allege
that the said plaintiff ever was in the service of the United
States before, at the time.when, or after, the said orders of
the Governor, of the 4th and 29th days of August, 1814,
were issued, or at the time when the said orders for detailing the said Court Martial were issued, when said Court
Martial convened, or when'the said trial took place, and the
said fine was imposed.
19. The said certificate of the said Gerard Steddiford, as
in the said avowry set forth; does not show with'sufficient
certainty by what Court, or by whom, or by what authority
the said fine was imposed; nor does it appear that the said
Gerard Steddiford made the said certificate, as such president of the said Court Martial, or signed the saiie in his official capacity.
And also, that the said avowry is, in other respects, uncertain, informal, aed insufficient, &c.
The defendant in replevin (now plaintiff in error) joined
in demurrer; .and judgment was rendered in behalf Qf the
p]Eintiff in replevin, in the Supreme Court, which was affirmed by the-Court for the Trial of ImpeaJments and Correction of Err6rs.
The cause was then brought before this Court, by writ
of error, un4er the 25th section of the .Judiciary Act of
1789, c. 20.

1827.
I

.

Mott.

28

UASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

The cause was argued by the Attorney General, and Mr.
1827.
for the plaintiff in error, and by -Mr. D. B. Ogden.
v .Coxe,
for the defendant in error. But as the grounds of arguMrartin
V.
ment are fully stated in the opinion of the Court, it has not
Mott.
insert it.
Jan. i7t. been thought necessary to
F'eb. 2d.

Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a writ of error to the judgment of the Court for
the Trial of Impeachments and the Correction of Errors
of the State of New-York, being the highest Court of that
State, and is brought here in virtue of the 25th section of
the Judiciary Act of 1789, ch. 20. The original action
was a replevin for certain goods and chattels, to which the
original defendant put in an avowry, and to that avowry
there was a demurrer, assigning nineteen distinct and special causes of demurrer. Upon a joinder in demurrer, the
Supreme Court of the State gave judgment against the
avowant, and that judgment was affirmed by the high Court
to which the present writ of error is addressed.
The avowry, in substance, asserts a justification of the
taking of the goods and chattels to gatisfy a fine and forfeiture imposed upon the original plaintiff by a Court Martial, for a failure to enter the service of the United States as
a militia-mifn, when thereto required by the President of
the United States, in pursuance of the act of the 281! of
F ebruary, 1795, c. 101. It is argued that this avowry is
defective, both in substance- and form, and it will be our
business to discuss -the most material of these objections;
and as to others, of which no articular notice is taken, itis
to be understood that the Court are of opinion, that they.
are either unfounded in fact or in 1 ..w, and do not require
any separate examination.
For the more clear and exact consideration of the subject, it may. be necessary to refer to the constitution of the
United States, and some of the provisions of the act of
1795. The constitution declares that Congress shall have
power." to provide for calling forth the militia, to execute
he laws of the Union., suppress insurrections,and repel in-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

29

1827.
,
disciplining the militia, and for governing such part of them
Martin
as may be employed in the service of the United States."
V.
MAlott.
In pursuance of this authority, the act of 1795 has provided,
"that whenever the United States shall be invaded, oyr be
in imminent danger of invasion from. any foreign nation or
Indian tribe, it shall be lawful for the President of the Urnted States to call forth such number of the militia of the
State or States most convenient to &ie place of danger, or
scene of action, as he may judge necessary to repel such
invasion, and to issue his order for that purpose to such officer or officers of the militia as he shall think proper." And
like provisions are made for the other cases stated in the
constitution. It has not been denied here, that the act of Tho act o.
1795 is within the constitutional authority of Congress, or the constitauthothat Congress may not lawfully provide for cases of imm,- tional
rity of Connver
tht
gres
an
invasion
cases
where
as
for
nent danger of invasion,as well
militia.
ground
no
is
there
opinion
our
In
place.
taken
has actually
for a doubt on this point, even if it bad been relied on, for
the power to provide for repelling invasions includes the
pow.r to provide against the attempt and danger of invasion, as the necessary and proper means to effectuate the
object. One of the best means to repel invasion is to provide the requisite force for action before the invader him.
self has reached the soil.
The power thus confided by Congress to the President, The Presidenof the United
is, doubtless, of a very high and delicate nature. A free States is the
exclustrejudge
military
people are naturally jealous of the exercise of
the
"whether
exigeicies
power; and the power to call the militia into actual service
arisen int
• have
is certainly felt to be one of no ordinary magnitude. But which he is
to
it is not a power which can be executed without a corres. authooazed
call forth the
pondent responsibility. It.is, in its terms, a limited power, militia of the
confined to cases of actual invasion, or of imminent danger Union.
of invasion. If it be a limited power, the question arises,
by whom is the exigency to be judged of and decided 9 Is
the President the sole and exclusive judge whether the extgency has arisen, or is it to be considered as an open question, upon which every officer to whom the orders of th-

vasions:" and also "to provide for organizing, arming, and

30

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827.

President are addressed, may decide for himself, and equally
to be contested by every militia-man who shall refuse
to obey the orders of the President 9 We are all of opi -

Sopen

Martin
iott.

won, that the authority to decide whether the exigency has
arisen, belongs exclusively to the President. and that his decisibn is conclusive upon all other persons.,- We think that
this coi~struction necessarily results from the nature of the
power itself,.and from the ynanifest object contemplated by
the act of Cbngress: The power itself is to be exercised.
upon sudden emergencies, upon great occasions of state,
and under circumstances which may be vital to the existence
of the Union. A prompt and unhesitating obedience to
orders is indispensable to the complete attainment of the
object. The service is a military service, and the command -of a military nature; and in such cases, every delay,
and every obstacle to an efficient and immediate compliance, necessarily tend to jeopard the public interests.
While subordinate officers or soldiers are pausing to consider
whether they ought to obey, or are scrupulously weighing
the evidence of the facts upon which the. commander ii
c ief exercises the right to demand their services, the hostile
enterprise may be accomplished without the means of resistance. If" the power of regulating the militia, and of
commanding its. services in times of insurrection and inva.
sion, are (as it has been emphatically said they are) natural
incidents to the duties ofsupenntending the common defence,
and of wathing over the internal peace of the confederacy,"4 these powers must be so construed as to the modes of
their exercise as not to defeat the.great end in view. If a
superior officer has a right to contest the orders, of the President upon his own,doubts as to the exigency having, arisen,
it must be equally the right of every inferior officer and
soldier; and any act done by any person in furtherance of
such orders would subject him to responsibility in a civil
suit, in which his defence must finally rest upon his ability
to establish the facts by competent proofs. Such a course
a TMe Federalist, .No.39.

OlF THE UNITED STATES,
'would be subversive of all discipline, and expose the best
disposed officers to the chances of ruinous litigation. Besides, in many instances, the evidence upon which the President might decide that there is imminent danger of iavasion, might be of a nature not constituting strict technical
proof, orthe disclosure of the evidence might reveal important secrets of state, which the public interest, and even
safety, might imperiously demand to be kept in conceal.
ment.
If we look at the language of the act of 1795, every conclision drawn from the nature of the power itself, is strongly
fortified. The words are, " whenever the United States
shall be invaded, or be in imminent danger of invasion, &c.
it shall be lawful for the President, &c. to call forth such
number of the militia, &c. as he may judge necessary to
repel such invasion." The power itself is confided to the
Executive of the Union, to him who is, by the constitution,
" the commander in chief of the militia, when called into
the actual service of the United States," whose duty it is to
"take care that the laws be faithfully executed," and whose
reiponsibility for an honest discharge of his official obligations is secured by the highest sanctions. He is necessarily
constituted the judge of the existence of the exigency in
the first instance, and is bound to act according to his belief
of tbhe facts. If he does so act, and decides to call forth the
militia, his orders for this purpose are in strict conformity
with the provisions of the law; and it would seem to follow
as i necessary consequence, that every act done by a subordinate officer, in obedience to such orders, is equally justifiable. The law contemplates that, under such circumstances, orders shall be given-to carry the power into effect;
and it cannot therefore be a correct iiference that any other
person has a just right to disobey them. The law does not
provide for any appeal from the judgment of the President,
or for any right in subordinate officers to review his decision,
and in effect defeat it. Whenever a statute gives a discretionry power to any person, to be exercised by him upon
his own opinion of certain facts: it is a sound rule of con-

1827.
Martin
V.

Mott,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COUR'T

8-7.
Martin
V.

struction, that the statute constitutes him the sole and exclusive judge of the existence of those facts. And, in the present case, we are all of opinion that strch is the true con-

struction of the act of 1795. It is no answer that such a
power may be abused, for there is-no power which is not
susceptible of abuse. The remedy for this, as well as for
all other official misconduct, if it should occur, is to be
found in the constitution itself. In a free government, the
danger must be remote, since in addition to the high qualit.es which the Executive must be presumed to possess, of
public virtue, and honest devotion to the public interests.
..he frequency of elections, and the watchfulness of the representativeg of the nation, carry with them all the checks
which can be useful to guard against usurpation or wanton
tyranny
This doctrine has not been seriously contested upon the
present occasion. It was indeed maintained and approved
by the Supreme Court of New York, in the case of Vanderheyden v. Young, (11 Johns. Rep. 150.) where the reasons
in support of it were most ably expounded by Mr. Justice
Spencer, in delivering the opinion of the Court.
But it is now contended, as it was contended in that case,
that notwithstanding the judgment of the President is conclusive as to the existence of the exigency, and may be
given in evidence as conclusive proof thereof, yet that the
avowry is fatally defective, because it omits to aver that the
fact did exist. The argument is, that the power confided to
the President is a limited power, and can be exercised 6nly
it is not neces- ini the cases pointed out in the statute, and therefore. it is
eary in such a
case that it necessary to aver the facts which bring the exercise within
of the statute. In short, the same principles
should
appearsof the purview
a
in point
fact, that the are sought to be applied to the delegation and exercise of
writu
particular el- ti
gency actually this power intrusted to the Executive of the nation for
existed, It is great political purposes, as might be applied to the humblest
the President officer in the government, acting upon the most narrow and
has deterninIt is the opinion of the Court, that this
ed it, and all special authority.
.,thier persons objection cannot be maintained. When the President exale bound by
his derjcon. ercises an authority confided to him by law. the presumpIott.

OA THE UNITED 5TATE,.

13

1827.
,on Is,that it is exercised in pursuance of law. Every put)lic officer is presumed to act in obedience to his duty, until %
Martin
V.
the contrary is shown; and, a fortion, this presumption
ought to be favourably applied to the chief magistrate of Mott.
the Union. It is not necessary to aver, that the act which
he may rightfully do, was so done. If the fact of the existence of the exigency were averred, it would be traversable, and of course might be passed upon by a jury; and thus
the legality of the orders of the President would depend,
not on his own judgment of the facts, but upon the finding
of those facts upon the proofs submitted to a jury. This
view of the objection is precisely the same which was acted
upon by the Supreme Court of New-York, if the case already referred to, and, in the opinion of this Court, with
entire legal correctness.
Another objection is, that the orders of the President are It is unnecesnot set forth ; nor is it averred that he issued any orders, "a'y oret
but only that the Governor of New-York called out the of
is sufo
dent.theit Presimilitia upon the requisition of the President. The objec- fcient to show
that theof Gothe
tion, so far as it proceeds upon a supposed difference be- vernor
tween a requisitionand an order,is untenable; for a requisi- State called
out the militia
tion calling forth the militia is, in legal intendment, an or- upon the reThe ma- qusteon of
der, and must be so interpreted in this avowry. this
sense,
upon
acted
and
understood
Court
jority of the
which is one of the acknowledged senses of the word, in
Houston v. Moore, (5 Wheat. Rep. 1.) It was unnecessary
to set forth the orders of the President at large; it was
quite sufficient to state that the call was in obedience to
them. No private citizen is presumed to be conversant of
the particulars of those orders ; and if he were, he is not
bound to set them forth in luec 'verba.
The next objection is, that it does not sufficiently appear Examination
tionshe toobjecthe
in the avowry that the Court Martial was a lawfully consti- 'f
tuted Court Martial, having jurisdiction of tlie offence at avowry, upon
the time of passing its sentence against the original plaintiff. other grot~n4_
Various grounds have been assigned in support of this
objection. In the first place, it is said, that the original
plaintiff was never employed in the service of the United
States, but refused to enter that service, and that, consequently, he was not liable to the rules and orticles of war
.5
Vor,. XT.

( ASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1827.
v
Martin

or to be tried for the offence by any Court Martial organized under the authority of the United States. The case
of Houston v. .Moore, (5 Wheat. Rep. 1.) affords a conclu-

V.

Mott.

sive answer to this suggestion. It was decided in that case,
A militiaman, that although a militiaman. who refused to obey the orders
who refuses to Of the President calling him into -the public service, was
obey thie ordc- fthe Pre- not, in the sense of the act of 1795, " employed in the
sidernt cal'iug service of the United States" so as to be subject to the
hinsmi l the
subec
publik trvice, rules and articles of war; yet that he was liable to be tried
'Sliabl e to be
teri for
the offence under the 5th section of the same act, by a
M'fence -nrder Court Martial called under the authority of the United
II - 6t1))
section
ofi tne act of States.
1195.
linquent

The great doubt in that case was, whether the dewas liable to be tried for the offence by a Court
Martial organized under State authority.
Objection to In the next place, it is said, the Court Martial was not
the avowry,
that the Court composed of the proper number of officers required by
noartial wselaw. In order to understand the force of this objection, it
of the number is necessary to advert to the terms of the act of 1795, and
of officers renuired bylaw, the rules and articles of war. The act of 1795 (s. 5.) pro-,
vides, "that every officer. non-commissioned officer, or private of the militia, who shall fail to obey the orders of the
President of the United States," &c. shall forfeit a sum not
exceeding one year's pay, and not less than one month's pay,
to be determined and adjudged by a Court Martial." And
it further provides, (s. 6.) " that Courts Martial for the
trial of militia shall be composed of militia officers only.."
These are the only provisions in the act on this subject. It
is not stated by whom the Courts Martial shall be called,
nor in what manner, nor of what number they shall be
composed. But the Court is referred to the 64th and 65th
of the rules and articles of war, enacted by the act of 10th
of April, 1806; ch. 20., which provide, "that General
Courts Martial may consist of any number of comnmission.
ed officers from five to thirteen inclusively; but they shall
not consist of less than thirteen, where that number can be
convened without manifest injury to the service -" and that
"any general officer commanding an army, or colonel commanding a separate department, may apppint General
Courts Martial when necessary." Supposing these clauses
applicable to the Court Martial in question, it is very clear,

OF THE UNITED STATES.
that the act is merely directory to the officer appointing the
1827.
Court, and that his decision as to the number which can be Martin
V.
-convened without manifest injury to the service, being in a
Mott.
matter submitted to his sound discretion, must be conclusve. But the present avowry goes further, and alleges,
not only that the Court Martial was appointed by a general
officer commanding an army, that it was composed of militia officers, naming them, but it goes on to assign the reason
why a number short of thirteen composed the Court, in the
very terms of the 64th article; and the truth of this allegation is admitted by the demurrer. Tried, therefore, by the
very test which has been resorted to in support of the objection, it utterly fails.
But, in strictness of law, the propriety of ibis resort may it isnot necessary that
Court
admit of question. The rules and articles 'of war, by the the
Martialforthc
very terms of the statute of 1806, are those ccby which trial
of delinthe armies of the United States shall be
s governed ;" and quents,
the act ofubder
1795,

the act of 1795 has only provdea, " that the militia em- shouldbe comof the
ployed in the service of the United States (not the militia posed
precise number of officers
ordered into the service of the United States) shall be sub-osrequired
by
ject to the same rules and articles of war as the troops the rules and
of war
of the United States ;" and this is, in substance, re-enacted articles
for the coipoby the 97th of the rules and articles of war. It is not, sition of General

Courts

therefore, admitted, that any express authority is given Martial in the

b~y either statute, that such a Court Martial as is contem- army.
plated for the trial of delinquents under the 5th section of
the act of 1795, is to be composed of the same number of
officers, 6rganized in the same manner as these rules and
articles contemplate for persons in actual service. If any
resort is to be bad to them, it can only be to guide the discretion of the officer ordering the Court, as matter of
usage, and not as matter of positive institution. If, then,
there be no mode pointed out for the formation of the Court
Martial in these cases, it may be asked, in what manner is
such Court to be appointed 7 The answer is, according to
the general usage of the military service, or what may not
unfitly be called the customary military law. It is by the
same law that 'Courts Martial, when duly organized, are
bound to execute their duties, and regulate their modes of
proceeding. in the absence of positive enactments. Trpor

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
197.
\any
Martin
V.

any other principle, Courts Martial would be left without
adequate means to exercise the authority confided to
them. for there could scarcely be framed a positive code

to provide for the infinite variety of incidents applicable to
them.
The act of the 18th of April, 1814, ch. 141. which expired at the end of the late war, was, in a great measure, intended to obviate difficulties arising from the imperfection
of the provisions of the act of 1795, and especially to aid
Courts Martial in exercising jurisdiction over cases like the
present. But whatever may have been the legislative intention, its terms do not extend to the .deciaration of the
number of which such Courts Martial shall be composed.
The first section provides, " that Courts Martial to be composed of militia officers alone, for the trial of militia drafted,
detached, and called forth, (not or called forth,) for the service of the United States, whether acting in con3unctior
with the regularforces or otherwztse, shall, when necessary,
be appointed, held, and conducted, In the manner prescribed
by the rules and articles of war, for appointing, holding,
and conducting, Courts Martial for the trial of delinquents
in the army of the United States." This language is obviously confined to the militia in the actual service of the
United States, and does not extend to such as are drafted
and refuse to obey the call. So that the Court are driven
back to the act of 1795 as the legitimate source for the ascertainment of the organization and jurisdiction of the
Court Martial in the present case. And we are of opinion,
tha't nothing appears on the face of the avowry to lead to
any doubt that it was a legal Court Martial, organized according to military usage, and entitled to take cognizance
of the delinquencies stated in the avowry.
ofThe
thesentence
Court-- This view of the case affords an answer to another ohMartial, ap-jection which has been urged at the bar, viz. that the senproved
by was
the tence has not been approved by the commanding officer,
President,
sufcient, sup' In the manner pointed out in the 65th of the rules and arposng that ticles of war. That article cannot, for the r,.asons already
'ensecessary. stated, be drawn in aid of the argument; and the avowry
itself shows that the sentence has been approved by.the
P'rp.jden of the Unite4 Ftafe s, who is the copm.n'kr ii.
.vlott.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

37

6luef, and that there was not any other officer of equal 187.
grade with the major generals by whom the Court Martial ,v"
had been organized and continued within the military dis- Martin
V.
M ott.
tnct, by whom the same could be approved. If, therefore,
an approval of the sentence were necessary, that approval
has been given by the highest, and indeed only, military
authority competent to give it.
i is not
But it is by no means clear that the act of 1795 meant to Butthat
any
clear
require any approval of the sentences imposing fines for approval was
:;oqueiices of this nature. The act does not require it necessa-y.
either expressly or by necessary implication. Rt directs
(s. 7.) that the fines assessed shall be certified by the presiding officer of the Court Martial to the marshal, for him
tn ,evvthe same, without referring to any prior act to be
done, to give validity to the sentences. The natural inference from such an omission is, that the Legislature did
no* intend, in cases of this subordinate nature, to require
any farther sanction of the sentences. And if such an approval is to be deemed essential, it must be upon the general military usage, and not from positive institution. Either
way, we think that all has been done, which the act required.
MarAnother objection to the proceedings of the Court Mar- A
tialCourt
regularly
took place, and the sentence was given, organized untial is, that' they
tialrtaof
three years and more after the war was concluded, and in a er the act of
with
time of profound peace. But the opinion of this Court is, expire
the terminat'on
of
a
war
that a Court Martial, regularly called under the act of 1795,
existing.
then
is
nor
existing..
then
war
a
of
end
the
with
does not expire
its jurisdiction to try these offences in any shape dependent
upon the fact of war or peace. The act of 1795 :s not
confined in its operation to cases of refusal to obey the orders of the President in times of public war. On the contrary, that act authorizes the President to call forth the militia to suppress insurrections, and to enforce the laws of
the United States, in times of peace. And Courts Martial are, under the 5"h section of the act, entitled to take
cognizance of, and to punish delinquencies in such cases,
as well as in cases where the object is to , apel i ivasbon in
times of war. It would be a strained c'astruction of the
act, to limit the authority of the Court to the mere time of

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
the existence of the particular exigency, when it might be
unable to take cognizance of, and decide upon a
single offence. It is sufficient for u's to say, that there is no
V.
mott.
such limitation in the act itself.
The next objection to the avowry is, that the certificate
Discrepancy
I setting
fotb of -the President of the Court Mhrtial is materially variant
the sentence, from the sentence itself, as set forth in a prior 'llegation.
1827.
'thereby
MIartin

The sentence as.there set forth is. " and thereupon the said
General Court Martial imposed the sum of 96 dollars as a
fine on the said Jacob, for having.thus failed, neglected, and
refused to rendezvous and enter m the service of the United
State.%of America, when thereto required as aforesaid."
The certificate adds, "and that the said Jacob E. Mot, was
sentenced by the said Geheral Court Martial, on failure of
Ahe payment of said fine imposed on him, to twelve months
imprisonment." It is material to state that the averment
does not purport to set forth the sentence in hoc verba; nor
was it necessary in this avowry to allege any thing more
than that part of the sentence which imposed the fine, since
that was the sole ground of the justification of taking the"
goods and. chattels in controversy. But there is nothing repugnant in this averment to that which relates to the certificate. The latter properly adds the fact which respects
-the imprisonment, because the certificate constitutes the
warrant to the marshal for his proceeaings. The act-of
1795 expressly declai:es, that the delinquents "shall be liaX
ble to be imprisoned by a like sentence, on failure of paymdnt of the fines adjudged -against ihem, for one calendar
month for every five dollars of such fine."l If indeed it bad
been necessary to set forth the whole sentence at large, the
first omission-would be helped by the certainty of the subsequent averment There is, then, no variance or repugnance in these allegations; but they. may well stand together.
Of the remaining causes of special demurrer, some are
properly matters of defence before the Court Martial; and
its sentence being upon a subject within its jiurisdictioit, is
conclusive; and others turn upon niceties of.plbadng,.to
which n eparatenanswers aro deemed necessary. In ge-

OF THE UNITED STATr.
1827.
neral it may be said of them, that the Court do not deem
,.o' Al
them well-founded objections to the avowry.
V.
Upon the whole, it is the opinion of the Court, that the Martin
Mott.
judgment of the Court for the Trial of Impeachments and
the Correction of Errors ought to be reversed, and that the
cause be remanded to the same Court, with directions to
cause a judgment to be entered upon the pleadings in favour of the avowant.
JUDGMENT.

This cause came on, &c. On consideration.

whereof, it IS CONSIDERED and ADJUDGED, that there is error

in the judgment of the said Court for the Trial of Impeachments and the Correction of Errors, in this, that upon the
pleadings in the cause, judgment ought to have been rendered in favour of the avowant,, whereas it was rendered in
favour of the original plaintiff; and it is, therefore, further
'CONSIDERED and ADJUDGED, that the same judgnent be,
and the same hereby is, REVERSED and ANNULLED, and also,that the judgment of the Supreme Court of Judicature of
the State of New.York, which was affirmed by the said
Court for the Trial of Impeachments and the Cevrection of
Errors, be REVERSED and ANNULLED; and thatjudgment be
rendered, that the said avowry is good and sufficient in law
to bar the plaintiff's action, and that the plaintiff take nothing by his writ; and that the cause be remanded to the
,said Court for the Tridl of Impeachments and the Correction of Errors, if the record be now in the said Court, and
if not, then to the Supreme Court of Judicature of the
State aforesaid, to which the same has been remitted, with
directions to cause judgment to be entered upon the plead.
ings in favour of the avowant.

