OF THE UNITED STATES.

511.

having been shown, the error of the conclusion necessarily 1827.
follows.
" Some observations were made b the defendant's counsel M'Gill
in argument, as tt the manner in +ch thi debits and cre- Bank of
dits in Swartwout's account had been adjusted by the ac- U. States.
counting officers, and he seemed to suppose, that credits
which ought to have been applied towards the extinguishment or lessening of the debits, for money placed in his
hands before the 20th of November, 1822, had been impropcrly applied to the transactions of Swartwout with the
government after that day.
Bight of the
The case of The United States v. January / Patterson,government
to
(7 Cranchs Rep. 572.) is m point to show, that, as to any apply the creto either
account.
disbursemeiis of money after the 30th of November, 1822, dits
for which Swartwout was entitled-to credit, it was at the
election of the government to apply them to either account.
But there is no necessity for the application of the principle to this case, for, upon looking into the account, we
find that. after crediting Swartwout with all his disbursements up until the AQth of November, 1822, There remained, on that day, a balauce in his hands unaccounted for.
much beyond the penalty of the bond ; so .that no injustice
is done to the surety in the manner of settling the account.
Judgment reversed. and a v'enrcrfac~as de noeo awarded.

LSURETY.J

Al'GILL, and Others, Plaintiffs in Error, against The PRE.S1DENT, DIRECTORS & COMePANY
UNITED STATEs,

OF THE BANK OF THE

Defendants in Error.

A. W M'G. gave a bond to the Btank of the United States, with
sureties, ondiiojid for the fauthfil performance of the dtimzes of
the office of cashier of one of the offieces of discount and deposit

during the term he should hold that office. The president and diretors of the bank having discovered that he. had been guilty of

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827.

a gross bieacb of trust, passed a resolution, at Philadelphia, on the
9.7th of ( ctober, 1820 " that A. W M'G , cashier, &c. be, and
he is hereby suspended from office, till the further pleasure of the
"M0Gill
V.
board be known:" and another resolution, - that the piebident of
the office at Middletown, be authorzzed and requested to receive
Bank of
U. States.
into his care, from A. W. M'G., the cashier, the
cash, bills discounted, books, papers, and other property in said office, and to
take buch measures for having the duties of cashier discharged, as
he may deem expedient." These resolutions were immediately
transmitted by mail to the president of the office at Middletown,
who received them on the morn'ing of Sunday, the 2Oth of the
same month, but did not communicate them to the cashier, nor
carry them into effect, .until the afternoon of the B0th, between
four and five o'1lock: Held, that the sureties continued liable for
his defaults until that time.
On such a bond, the recovery against the sureties is limited to the penalty.
Partial payments having been made by the sureties, (subject to all
questions,) the application of these payments was made by deducting them from the penalty of the bond, and allowing interest on
the balance thus resulting, from the qommencement of the suit,
there having been no previous demand of tne penalty, or acknowledgment that the whole was due.
But interest was refused to the sureties on the payments,

Feb. i-th.

THIS case was argued by Mr. D. B. Ogden, for the
plaintiff in error, and by Mr. Webster, for the defendants in
error.

Peb. 19th.

Mr. Justice JOHNSON delivered the opinion of the Court.
This cause comes up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States, held for the District of Connecticut, i# which the defendants here obtained a judgment
against the plaintiffs upon a penal'bond, in which M'Gill
was principal, the other defendants sureties.
M'Gill was cashier of one of the branches of the Bank
of the United States, and this bdnd was given in the penal sum of 50,000 dollars, conditioned for the due perform.
ance of that office.
The replication sets out a great variety of breaches, and
the cause was decided below upon a special verdict, by
which was found for the plaintiffs the sum of 06,548 dol-lars, consisting of a variety of items upon which interest is

OF THE UNITED STATES.
charged severally, from the dale of the embezzlement or 1827.
other breach, to the time of finding the verdict.
'he verdict then finds two payments, one of 20,000 dol- lIGill
V.
lars, made by one of the sureties on the 16th of December, Bank of file
1820, the other of 500 dollars, made by another of the U. S.
sureties on the 22d of December, 1820, on which they
also calculate interest to the date of the verdict, and deducting the amount of principal and interest, strike a balance of 43,182 dollars 50 cents.
It also finds the following facts- " That the President
and Directors of the Bank of the United States, on the
27th of October, 1820, at Philadelphia, passed the following resolution, to wit. " Whereas it appears, by the report
of a committee of the office of discount and deposit at
Middletown, that Arthur W. M'Gill, cashier of that office,
has been guilty of a gross breach of trust, in knowingly suffering over drafts to be made by individuals; also by making
overdrafts himself, therefore, resolved, that A. W. M'GillI
cashier of the office at Middletown, be, and he is herel~j,
.uspendedfrom office till thefurtherpleasure of the board be
known.
" On motion, resolved, that the president of the office at
Middletown, be authorized and requested to receive into
]us care, from A. W M'Gill, the ca.hier, the cash, hills discounted, books, papers, and other property in said office,
and to take such measures for having the duties of cashier
discharged, as he may deem expedient-."
Which rasalutions were immediately transmitted by mail
to the president of the Middletown office, who received
them on the morning of Sunday, the 29th of the month, but
did not communicate them to M'Gill until the afternoon of
the 30th, between the hours of four and five in the afternlOOn.
It then finds, that all the breaches were incurred before
the 30th, and goes on to find alternatively, so as to enable
the Court to give judgment, according to its views of the
law, as between the parties. There appear to have been
various questions argued in the Court below, some of which
were decided for the plaintiff, some for the defendant but
65
VOL. XIJ.

CASES IN THE SUP14-9ME COURT
1827.
v' -.

M'GiM
V.

as ihe plaintiff below seeks an affirmance of the judgment,
and has not sued out a writ of error. it follows, that we
confine ourseles to those.points onl) which were decided

These were two, ole of them
going to the whole right to recover. the oel:er to the applicate'on of the payments towards the discharge of the sum to be
recovered.
Liability of The first of these was, whether the sureties were not dis-.
ih sureties, charged tpso facto from.further liability, by the resolution
of the parent bank on the 21 th, or if not on that day, then
on the 29th, the day on which it was received at Middle;
town by mail. If discharged on either of those days, it
would follow, that the plaintiffs below could not have judg..
ment, since the finding was up to the day following.
We are unanimously and decidedly of opinion, that tlih
ground assumed by the defendants below canhot be maintamed. What was there in the resolutions of the paren
bank to discharge the obligors at all from their liability I
The resolution was only to suspend, and this implies the
right to restore. The cashier's salary went on, and had tho
board rescided their resolution, what necessity would there
]ave existed for a redelivery of his bond"
But there is no necessity for placing the decision on ti
ground, since, notwithstaiding the resolution of the board
3s expressed in the present tense, a future operation must
necessarily be given it, from a cause that could not be over
come, the distance of the parties from each other. Tiros
became indispensable to giving notice, and the day on
-which the communication reached the president of the
Middletown bank, wab a day not to be profaned by the bu.
siness of a bank. There was, tlien, no obligation to deli
ver the notice, and dispossess the cashier, until the 30th,
and the law makes no fractions of a daj
The Court below, in applying the payments, directed
Application of
the payments, them to be deducted from the penalty of the bond, and then
gave interest upon the balance thus resulting. This, with the
exception ofthe interest, was the mpst favourable application
possible for the defendants below; and the interest on the balance having been only allowed from the date of the suit, and
thesum thus asce tained fallip ghortofthe pentry ofthebond.,
lank of the against the plaintiff here.

U.S.

UP THlE UNITED STATras.

515

1827.
we thitn the defendant below has nothing to complain of.
It will*be discovered, by rqferenceto dates,thatthe payments
here made preceded the institution of the suit, and, although Drummond
made by the sureties, they were made severally, for any Prestman.
thing that appears to the contrary from the verdict. Technically, then, the judgment to be entered would have been
ajudgment for the penalty of the bond, and, in applying
the.partial payment, the Court would have been governed
by those principles which have been transferred in practice
from the Courts of equity to the Courts of law, in deciding
on what terms a party shall be released from the penalty of
his bond. These always are, on payment of principal, interest, and costs. And it can constitute no objection to the
application of this principle to the -case of these obligors,
that no interest was allowed them durmg the short interval
between the payment and the suing out of .the writ, since
the breaches were incurred long before, and interest for
thesamepernod is refused to the bank.
Judgment affirmed, with six percecn. interesi.

[GUARATm.--EvxDZNcXn.]
Ho.ND, surviving partner of CHAIRLES DavURRic HARD D.
MOND, against the Executors of GEORGE PRESTMAN.

The following letter of guarantie,
",Baltimore, 17th No'v. 1805.
CAPT. CHASLEs DRUMMOND,

"Dear Sir:-My son William having mentioned to me,-that, in consequence of your esteem and friendship for han, you had caused
and placed propertyof7oursandjourbrother'sin his hands for sale,
nd that it is probable, from timeto time, you may have considera-

ble transactions together; on my part, I ihink proper to'guarantee
to you the conduct of my son, and shall hold myself liable, and
do hold myself liable for the faithful discharge of all his engagements to you, both now and in future." (Signed,) GEo. PRESTBIA,"

will extend to a partnership debt incurred by William P to

