CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1827.
Williamson
V.

(DEVISE.]

Daniel.

WxLLIAMsoN and Others, Appellants, against DA&NxIL and
Others, Respondents.
An absolute bequest of certain slaves to P H. is qualified by a subsequent limitation over. that if either ofthe testator's grand children,

P H., or J.D. A., should die without a lawful heir of their bodies,
that the other should heir its estate, which converted the previou.:
estate into an estate tail.

and there being no words in the will

which restrained the dying without issue to the time ofthe death
of the legatee, the limitation over was held to be on a contingency
too remote.

The rule of partus srluitur ventrem is universally followed, unless
there be someihing in the teims of the instrument which disposes
of the mother, separating the issue from her.

APPEAL from the Circuit Cmiirt of Georg-a.
The controversy in this cause arose out of the following
clauses in the will ofJames Daniel. " I lend my w:fe twenty-one negroes," naming them, and-also certain lands, "d uring her natural life." Aad subsequently, "1 give and bequeath unto my grand daughter, Patsy Hendrick, three negroes. viz- Joe, Parker, and Willis-] also give her one half
of the negroes I have lent my wife, to her and her heirsfor

ever. I give and bequeath unto my grandson, Jesse Daniel
Austin, son of Betty Austin, one half of the negroes Ihavc
.lent my wife, after the death of my wife, Nancy Daniel.
Now my will is, that if either of my grand children, Patsy
Hendrick, or Jesse Daniel Austin, should die without a laws-

ful heir of thezr'bodiet, that the other should heirits, estate.'
Jesse Daniel Austin, (now called by special act Jesse .Austin Daniel,) survived Pasty Hendrick, and after the death
of Nancy Daniel. the widow of the testator, took into pos.
session all the negroes bequeathed to her during her life.
Patsy Hendrick died about the year 1805, intestate, and
without heirs of her body. being at the time of her death an
infant about nine years old, leaving Robert Hendrick, her
f'kther, and Louisa Hendrick. her half sister. by the father',

569

OF THE'UNITED STATES.
iade,

now Louisa Gibbes, one of the complainants, her next

1827.

,f kin. Robert Hendrick died in 1814, having first made '.v'
V.
his will. bequeathing his estate to the said Louisa, his daugh. SWilliamson
Daniel.
a
cornalso
Mary
William.on.
now
his
wife
Mary,
ter, and
plainant. Some of the slaves, to wit, Sally and her children,
were born in the lifetime of Nancy Danelh.
The Court below determined that the limitation over was
too remote, and decreed or_ half the slaves to the representatives of Patsy HendricK, the complainants. It also decreed that the slaves, Sally and her children, did not belong
to the estate of the tenant for life. The defendants appealed
to this Court.
The cause was argued by Mr. "Berren,for the appellants,a Marcl&
and by Mr. Wilde, for the respondents.

inta

Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of Mwch J°'
the Court.
The first bequest to Patsy Hendrick would pass the slaves
therein mentioned io het absolutely, were not this absolute
estate qualified by the subsequent limitation over, if either
of the testator's grand children, Patsy Hendrick, or Jesse
Daniel Austin, should die withouit a lawful heir of their bodies, that the other should heir its estate. We think'these
words convert the absolute estate previously given, into an
estate tail, and, if so, since slaves are personal property,
the limitation over is too remote.
There are no words in the -ill which restrain th dying
withoutissue to the time of the death of the legatee.- The
remainder over is to take effect whenever either of the immediate legatees should die without a lawful heir of his or
her body. The gift in remainder is a gift to the stock, and
is limited over on a contingency too remote to be allowed
by the policy of the law.
a Fearne,445.471. 478.489. 485. Pree.an Ch. 15. 1 P Wrzs.
584. Prec. in Ch. 1033. S P Wins. 253. SJohns. Rep. 289. 2 Mass.
Rep. 56. 1 P Wims. 663. SAtlk. 896. 2 Term Rep. 720. 7 Term
R7ep.585. 8VFes.11. 17Fes. 479.

VOL. XI.

712

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

570

Th'e second point is, we believe, well settled. The issue
is, we believe, universally considered as following the mother, unless they be separated from each other by the terms
of the instrument which disposes of the mother.

1827.
Newman
V..

Jackson.

Decree affirmed, with costs.

[SALr.]

"NEwmAN, Plaintiff in Error, against JAcKson, Defendant
in Error.
Question as to the sufficiency of a notice' of sale of real property
under a deed of trust.
Vo particular'form of such a notice is prescribed by law; it is suffi-

cient if the description of the, land is reasonably certain, so as to
inform the public -ofthe property to be sold.
THIS.cause was argued by Mr. Key, for the plaintiff in
error, and by Mr. Sijann, for the defendant in error.

March Rd.

Mr. Justice TRIMBLE delivered the opinion of the Court.
This was an action of ejectment, brought to recover lot
No. 99, in Threlkeld's addition to Georgetown, with the improvements thereon, fronting sixty feet on Fayette-street
and one hundred and twenty feet on Second-street.
The plaintiff in error was tenant in possession of the
prenses, appeared to the action, and, upon entering into
-the common consent rule, was admitted to defend, and
pleaded not guilty, upon which issue was joined.
Upon the trial in the Court below, the plaintiff gave in
,evidence a deed from John W. Bronaugh to Thomas G.
Moncure, coiveyng to him, in trust, for the payment of
certain enumerated creditors, "A lot on Fayette-street, and
Second-street, in Georgetown, fronting 60 feet on Fayettestreet, and 120 feet on Second-street, with the buildings.

March 1 t]i.

