OF THE UNITED STATES.
1827.
U. States
V.
Barker.

,BILLS OF EXCHANGE.J

The UNITED

STATES

tratrix of

against

ABRAHAM

PRISCILLA BARKER,
BARKER,

Admtis-

deceased.

Wherever the government of the United States, through its lavi fully
authorized agents, becomes the holder of a bill of exchange, it is
bound to use the same diligence, in order to cnarge the endorser,
as in a transaction between private individuals.
Where the United States were the hnlders of certain bills of exchange, and their agent in Neiv-York was directed, by a letter from
the Secretary of the Treasury, dated Washington, December 7th,
1814, to give notice of non-acceptance to the dra',er and endorsers, residing in New-York, and notice was given to the endorser
.on the ltb of the same month, the mail which left the 8th having
arrived at New-York at .95 minutes past 10 o'clock. A. M| on the
10th: Held, that the endorser was discharged by the negligence
of the holders.
So, also, where the United States were the holders of other bills, and
their agent in New-York was directed, by a letter from the Secretary of the Treasury, dated Washington, May 8th, 1815, to give
notice of non-piyment to the drawer and endorsers residing in
New-York. and notice was given to the endorser on thethe I th of
the same month, the mail which left Washington on the th having reached New-York early on the morning of the ith, held,
that the endorser was discharged by the negligence of the holders.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of
Pennsylvania.
This was an action of assumpsit brought in the Court below by the United Slates, against the personal representative of A. Barker, deceased, the endorser of several bills
of exchange, drawn in the sear 1814,by J. Barker, in NewYork, on different houses of trade in England. Among the
bills, two were protested for non-acceptance, and two for
lion-acceptance and non-payment. It appeared in evidenc.
at the trial, that the agent of the United States Treasury,
in New-York, where the bills were drawn, and where the
drawer and endorsers resided, received a letter from the
Secretary of the Treasuryq, dated Washington, Decembet

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
7th, 1814, requesting him to notify.the drawer and endorsers
of the non-acceptance of the first set of bills, and that noU. States tice was accordingly given to them on the 12th of DecemV.
Barker. her. It was further proved, that the mail which left Washington 9n the 8th of the same month, arrived at New-York
at 35 minutes past 10 o'clock. A. M. on the 10th. It was
also proved, that the said agent received a letter from the
Secretary of the Treasury, dated at Washington, May 8th,
1815, directing him to give notice of the non-payment of
the second set of bills of exchange to the drawer and endorsers, and that they were notified on the 12th of the same
month. It was further proved, that the mail which left
Washington, containing letters of the 8th of May, reached
New-York early in the morning of the 11 th. But no notice of the non-acceptance of this second set of bills was
proved.
The learned judges in the Cobrt-below instructed the
jury, that the holders of the bill had not used due diligence.
The letter of the 7th of December, 1814, must be considered as having been written on that day. and ought to have
been put into the post office to come by the mail of the 8th,
and, if so, it would have reached New-York on the morning
of the 10th. That. the letter of the 8th of May, 1815,
should have been put into the post office to come by the
mail of the 9th, and would have reached New-York the
morning of the 11th. The earliest notice alleged was on
the 1I2th of May and December, respectively; and it seemed clear, either that the letters were not put into the post
office at Washington in due time, or that the agent in NewYork was guilty of negligence in giving notice to the parties, in either of which cases they we're discharged.
A verdict and judgment was rendered upon this instruction in the Court below, on which the cause was brought, by
writ of error, to this Court.
1827.

'.-.-

Feb. 16tY.

.

The cause was submitted without argument, by the.4ttorney General, for the United States,. and by Mr. Webster for
the defendant.
-Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court:

OF THE UNITED STATES.

That whatever doubts might be entertained as to the

5 uI
1827.

charge of the Court below relatingg to the transactions in %4Parker
England, (which it has not been thought necessary to state,)
in respect to the protest and transmission of the bills, we Judges of
Courteor
think there is none as to what took place after their arnval Cir.
DIaryland.
at the treasury of the United States. The question was,
whether notice of the dishonour of the bills was transmitted to the party within the time prescribed by the general
law in respect to bills of exchange. The Court were of
opinion, that there was negligence either at Washington or
New-York, as to giving such notice; and that the notice actually given was too late to fix him with the responsibility.
The letter from the treasury department giving the noticei
was either not sent in due course of mail to New'York, or
there was negligence at New-York in not giving notice
there as early as it should have been given, after the letter
arrived at that city. Whelher, therefore. the Judge erred

or not, as to the first part of his cha,'ge, in rkspect to the
trans',ission of the bill., from Englat,d ii a reasonable tme,
there was no doubt that the United States had no right to

recover on account of the neglect in giving due notice after
the return of the hills.
Upoi, this .-round, the judgment of the Circuit Cour
was affirmed.

PARKER and Another against The JUDGES IOP THiE CIBsrtv,
COURT OF MARYLAND.
An injunction out of the Circuit Court, to stay proceedings on a
judgment at law in that Court, may issue, not,,isbstanding the
pendency of a writ of error on the juagmeuc in this Court.
An injunction issued by order of the District Juidge, expires at dhe
next term of the Count. unless cont-nued by the Court; but the
denial of several succesive motions to dissolve the injunction,
may, uqder circumstances, be considered., equivalent to an order
for renewing it.

VOL. XIl.

71

