OF THE UNITED STATES.

That whatever doubts might be entertained as to the

5 uI
1827.

charge of the Court below relatingg to the transactions in %4Parker
England, (which it has not been thought necessary to state,)
in respect to the protest and transmission of the bills, we Judges of
Courteor
think there is none as to what took place after their arnval Cir.
DIaryland.
at the treasury of the United States. The question was,
whether notice of the dishonour of the bills was transmitted to the party within the time prescribed by the general
law in respect to bills of exchange. The Court were of
opinion, that there was negligence either at Washington or
New-York, as to giving such notice; and that the notice actually given was too late to fix him with the responsibility.
The letter from the treasury department giving the noticei
was either not sent in due course of mail to New'York, or
there was negligence at New-York in not giving notice
there as early as it should have been given, after the letter
arrived at that city. Whelher, therefore. the Judge erred

or not, as to the first part of his cha,'ge, in rkspect to the
trans',ission of the bill., from Englat,d ii a reasonable tme,
there was no doubt that the United States had no right to

recover on account of the neglect in giving due notice after
the return of the hills.
Upoi, this .-round, the judgment of the Circuit Cour
was affirmed.

PARKER and Another against The JUDGES IOP THiE CIBsrtv,
COURT OF MARYLAND.
An injunction out of the Circuit Court, to stay proceedings on a
judgment at law in that Court, may issue, not,,isbstanding the
pendency of a writ of error on the juagmeuc in this Court.
An injunction issued by order of the District Juidge, expires at dhe
next term of the Count. unless cont-nued by the Court; but the
denial of several succesive motions to dissolve the injunction,
may, uqder circumstances, be considered., equivalent to an order
for renewing it.

VOL. XIl.

71

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1827.
\.o--

Parker

AR. Raymond, for the plaintiffs, having, on a fbrmer day
obtained a rule to show cause why a mandamus should

not issue to the Judges of the Circuit Court of Mlarland

V.lad

Judges-of cause was this day shown, and the question argued by Mr
ir. Court of Rnymond,
for the rule, and by the dttorzey General.
- ... ,

Maryland.

against it.

Feb. 9th,.
Feb. ioth.

Mr. Chief Justice MARsHAr.r. delivered the opinion of the
Court.
A rule was made upon the Judges of the Court of the
United States for the Fourth Circuit and District of Maryland, to sho.w cause why an execution should not issue on
ajudgment rendered in that Court in favour of Parkin, Parker, and Clough, against John E. Rigden. A writ of error
had been sued out to this judgment, which had been affirmed
in this Court, and the usual mandate had been awarded.
On affidavit that the clerk of the Circuit Court had refused
to issue an execution, and that the Judges of that Court had
refused to direct one, this rule was made.
The.cause shown is, that, after suing forth the writ of
error to the original judgment, Rigden had determined to
abandon it. That the couiiel who had obtained the judgment took the .record from the clerk's office, filed it in this
Court, and obtained an affirmance of thejudgment. Before
tis affirmance, John E. Rigden obtained an injunction to
stay all proceedings at law on the said judgment, which the
counsel for Parkin, Parker, and Clough. have made two ineffectual attempts to dissolve; and that the said Judges
were, and are, of opinion, that to issue execution during
the continuance of the injunction, would be a violation
thereof.
The record of the proceedings in Chancery is annexed
to this return, which shows that an injunction was awarded
by Elias Glenn. the District Judge, on the 19th of February.
1825, at which time the writ of error was depending in this
Court.
The subpoeua was returnable to the May term of the
Circuit Court, but the record does not state, that any ordei
was made in the cause at that term. In December, a rule
was made on the defendants in equity to answer the bill. In

OF THE UNITED STATES.

563

1827.
May, 1826, an answer was filed for Parkin, Parker, and
Clough, by William Gwynn and Daniel Raymond, their ,-Parker
agents and attorneys;who moved to dissolve the injunction,
V.
which motion was reje.cted. Afterwards, in December, Judges of
1826, on the suggestion that there is no bond for the per- CirCourt
Maryland of
formance of any decree which might he pronounced in the M
cause, it was ordered by the Court, that the injunction be
dissolved, unless cause be shown to the contrary on or before
the 23d day of December instant. On the 22d thi rule
was extended. The bond, given cn. nhtammg the inijunction, which had been mislaid, was found, and, on the 26th,
the Court, on argument, again refused to dissolve the injunction,
The cause shown on the return, consists of tvyo parts:
1st. The supposed incorrect conduct of the counsel for the
plaintiff at law, in bringing up the record after the defendant had abandoned his intention to prosecute the writ of
error. 2d. The pendency of the injunction.
Firstn cause
The first rtause khoai.m entirely insuflicient. The plain- show
sufRtiff in error having, given bond to prosecute his writ, was at cienUwt.
liberty at any time to bring up the record; and, although the
writ constituted no supersedeas, yet the party who had ob.
tained the judgment would remain exposed to the hazard of
its being reversed at a distant day. To obwiate such an inconvenience, one of the rules of this Court authorizes the
defendant in error, where the plaintiff has failed to file the
record within the time prescribed, to docket the cause, and.
file a copy ot the record with the clerk. The defendantin
error has only conformed to this rule, and can be liable to
no censure for doing so.
Injunction
The second cause assigned for refusing to issue the exe.
properlygrantnoiwithed,
grounds:
ery
two
been
contested
cution, has
the
1. It is contended, that an injunction could notbe award- standing
pentqency of
wtoferoftthe
writ
a
on
Court
-this
ed while the record was before
error.

We do not think this a valid objection. The suit in
Chancery does not draw into question the judgment and
proceedings at law, or claim a riht to revise them: It sets
up an equity independent of the jtdgment, which admits
the validity of that judgment,.but suggests xeasons why the

or in the ac.
tion at law.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
party who has obtained it ought not to avail himself of it.
It proposes to try a question entirely new, which has not
been, and could not be, litigated at law. It may be brought

1827l
,
airker

Judges of before the commencement of a suit at law, pending such
Cit. Courtof suit, or after its decision by the highest law tribunal. The
bill is an original bill, and may be filed although
an injunction should not be awarded. The injunction arrests proceedings at law, and may be dissolved or continued without
iakng any final decree in the case- Thc cordition of the
,uit at law relay bo a roason for imposing terms on the party
who applies for an injunction, but can be no reason for refusing it. The subpoena and injunction act on the person
to whom they are directed, not on the record, and it can be
of no consequence where the record is.
An injunction B. The second objection to the pendency of the injuncissud by the tion has more weight. It was awarded in December, 1825,
District Judge,

expires at the by the District Judge, and no order appears to have been
next term of
Circuit made for its continuance at thc succeeding term. The act
the
Court, ui.lis which authorizes the District Judget fn grant writs of incotinucd

the Court.

'by

junction, provides, " that the same shall not, unless so ordered by the Circuit Court, continue longer than to the Circuit Court next ensaing.'
An order for its continuance,
therefore, ought to have been made; and, after the close of
the term without such order, an execution might have been
sued out on the judgment without any contempt of the

Court.
But, under the But if, in point of law, the injunction ceased to exist. the
circumstances Court could reinstate it at wi!l. The Judges acted obvious-

of the present
the in- ly on the opinion, that the injunction still continued, and
jeld to bewa ought to continue. Two successive notioiis to dissolve

e ate,

tlnued by the it were ,overruled. The same view of the case which indental of seve.
ral successive duced the Court thus to continue the injunction, must have
motions to dis- nduced a reinstatement of it, had it been supposed to be
*ol0e it.

discontinued by the omission to make an order in it at the
term to which the subpcena was returnable. If, upoi, the
ground of this onission, the .aiardamus should be awarded,

it might be rendered useless by granting a n.ew injnction.
It ought to be granted, ifthe case, as it now appears, shows
that the plaintiff in equity is entitled to relief. We must
.uppose that, in the opinion of the Court, he is so entitled.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

565

1827.
or the injunction would have been dissolved on motion.
The continuance of the injunction is, in substance, equivaThompson
lent to a renewal of it.
Peter.
Under these circumstances, some difference of opinion
exists on the motiori for a mandamus. Some of the Judges
think, that it ought to be awarded ; others are of opinion,
that as the injunction is still continued by the Court, and as
the Judges who have a right to give it force have returned
thatat is in force, it ought not to be awarded. The motion
isoverruled.
Rule discharged.

[LIMITATION.]
Tu-omPsoN agamst.PETER & JonNs, Administrators de bonrs
non of PETER, deceased.
An acknowledgment of the debt by the-personal representatives of'
the original debtor, deceased, will not take the case out of the statute of limitations.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Columbia.
This was an action of assumpsit brought in September,
1822, by the plaintiff against the defendants, for goods sold,
&c. to their intestate. At the trial in the Court below, the
plaintiffgave in evidence, that in the lifetime of the intestate,
James Peter, who died in the year 1808, fie admitted the
payment, at his request and for his use, by the plaintiff, of
the 800 dollars, charged in the account produced, that after
the death ofsaid Peter, and after his brother D. Peter had
obtained letters of administration on his estate, an account,
of which the one now in suit is a copy, was drawn off, passed
the Orphan's Court, and presented to said D. Peter, as said
administrator, for payment; to which he answered, there
were no funds in hand to pay the debts of the.antestate. The
said account. with the certificate of allowance by the Or-

