OCTOBER TERAE, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

TITOMPSON v. SAINT NOIOLAS NATIONAL BANK.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 49. Argued November 17,18,1892. -Decided November 28,1892.
Where T. deposited with C., his broker, coupon railroad mortgage bonds, as
margin for purchases of stocks, and C. pledged the bonds to a national
bank, in 1874, as its customer, as collateral security for any indebtedness
he might owe to the bank, and afterwards the bank paid and advanced
for C. money on the faith of the bonds, and on like faith certified checks
drawn on it by C., when C. had not on deposit in the bank moneys equal
in amount to the checks: Held, under the act of March 3d, 1869, c. 135,
(15 Stat. 335,) now § 5208 of the Revised Statutes, that, although the
certifications were unlawful, the checks certified were good and valid
obligations against the bank.
The pledge of the bonds with the bank by C. was a valid contract, and
entirely aside from the certifications; and the title of the bank to the
bonds was not impaired by the certifications.
Where the provisions of the national banking act prohibit certain acts
by banks or their officers, without imposing any penalty or forfeiture
applicable to particular transactions which have been executed, their
validity can be questioned only by the United States, and not by private
parties.

THIs was an action brought by John B. Thompson, in the
Supreme Court of the State of New York, against the Saint

Nicholas National Bank of New York, a national banking
association. The complaint alleged that on the 1Sth of April,
1874, the plaintiff was the owner of 73 mortgage bonds, of
$1000 each, of the Jefferson, Mfadison and Indianapolis :Railroad Company, and 20 mortgage bonds, of $1000 each, of the
Indianapolis, Bloomington and Western Railroad Company,
of the value of $150,000; that on or aboht that date the
defendant became wrongfully and illegally possessed of the
bonds; and tl~at, before the suit was brought, the plaintiff
demanded from the defendant the possession of them, but the
defendant refused to deliver up any portion thereof.
The answer of the defendant oet up that, .at the time named
in the complaint and for a long time before, Capron & Merriam, bankers and brokers in the city of New York, were

THOMPSON v. SAINT NICHOLAS NAT'L BANK.

2941

Statement of the Case.

customers of, and regular depositors with, the defendant, and
kept a large account in its bank; that it was the custom of
Capron & Merriam to procure call loans, advances and discounts from the defendant, for the benefit of themselvcs and
also of their customers, and they pledged to the defendant, as
collateral security for such loans, advances and discounts,
various bonds, stocks and commercial paper, under an agreement on their part that in case they should be at any time
indebted to the defendant for money lent or paid to them or
for their use, in any sum, the defendant might then sell, in its
discretion, at the brokers' board, public auction or private
sale, without advertising and without notice, any and all
collateral securities and property held by ,the defendant for
securing the payment of such debt, and apply the proceeds to
that object; that the bonds specified in the complaint were
a part of the securities so pledged by Capron & Merriam to
the defendant; that the defendant, at the time of such transactions, did not have any knowledge in respect to any person
interested in such loans or in said securities, except Capron &
Merriam, and the latter having failed to pay such loans on
proper demand, the defendant proceeded to sell and dispose
of said securities, pursuant to such agreement, and gave to
Capron & Merriam credit for the net proceeds thereof; and
that there still remained due to the defendant, on account of
such loans and advances, after such credit, a large balance.
The plaintiff having died, and his executors having been
substituted as plaintiffs, the case was tried at a circuit of the
Supreme Court before a jury, which, under the direction of
the court, found a verdict for the defendant. The exceptions
of the plaintiffs, takeif at the trial, were heard in the first
instance at the general term of the Supreme Court, on a case
made by the plaintiffs, containing the exceptions. A motion
for a now trial was made thereon before the general term, and
was denied, with an order that the defendant have judgment
against the plaintiffs upop the verdict, with costs. Such judgment was entered, the principal portion of the opinion of the
general term being reported in 4'7 Hun, 621. The plaintiffs
then appealed to the Court of Appeals, which affirmed the
VOL. CXLVi-16

OCTOBER TERAM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

judgment and r~mitted its own judgment to the Supreme
Court, where a final judgment was entered against the plaintiffs. The opinion of the Court of Appeals is reported in 113
N. Y. 325. The plaintiffs have brought a writ of error.
The 93 bonds in question were all coupon bonds, payable to
bearer. The testator of the plaintiffs delivered them to Capron
& Merriam, who were his brokers, as margin for purchases of
stocks by them for his account. Capron & Merriam pledged
the bonds to the defendant, they being its customers, as collateral security for the repayment of any indebtedness which
might exist at any time to it on their part. That pledge was
made under a written agreement, dated December 2, 1S73,
and signed by Capron & Merriam, which read as follows:
"We hereby agree with the St. Nicholas National Bank of
New York, in the city of New York, that in case we shall become or be at any time indebted to said bank for money lent
or paid to us or for our account or use, or for any overdraft,
in any sum or amount then due and payable, the said bank
may, in its discretion, sell at the broker's board or at public
auction or private sale, without advertising the same and without notice to us, all, any and every collateral securities, things
in action and property held by said bank for securing the
payment of such debt, and apply the proceeds to the payment
of such indebtedness, the interest thereon, and the expenses of
the sale, holding ourselves responsible and liable for the payment of any deficiency that shall remain unpaid after such
application.". Afterwards, the defendant paid and advanced
for Oapron" & Merriam large sums of money on the faith of
the bonds and of such other securities as it held for their
account.' They failed in business on April 20, 1874, owing
the defendant $71,920.17, for checks certified by it and outstanding, and for money'p-aid by it up to the close of business
on April 18, 1874. On April 20, 1S74, before the defendant
heard of such failure, it paid $210 more, making a'total debt
of $72,130.17, which remained unpaid. No notice or claim as
to the ownership of the 93 bonds by the testator of the plaintiffs came to the defendant until. May 5, 1374. The bonds
came into the possession of the defendant before it made the

THOMPSON v. SAINT NICHOLAS NAT'L BANK.

243

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

certifications of checks for the account of Capron & Merriam,
which were made on April 18, 1874; and the certifications
were made on the faith of the deposit of the bonds and of the
other securities which the defendant held for the account of
Capron & Merriam. The defendant used its best efforts to
procure as large a pride as possible for all the securities which
had been pledged to it by Capron & Merriam, including the
93 bonds; but, after crediting to Capron & Merriam the entire
proceeds of sales, there was a deficitncy on their debt to the
defendant of about $1800. No payment on account of such
deficiency, and no tender or offer of any kind in respect to said
bonds, was ever made to the defendant by the testator of the,,
plaintiffs. This action was not commenced until April 18,
1880, six years after the bonds came into the possession of
the defendant.
At the trial, the plaintiffs asked the court to direct a verdict
for them on the ground that the contract of certification of
the checks by the defendant was void, because it was unlawful,
being a certification of checks drawn by Capron & Merriam
when they had no money on deposit to their credit with the
defendant, and the defendant could not hold the 93 bonds as
against such unlawful certification; and on the further ground
that the defendant did not take the bonds in the ordinary
course of business.
.Mr. Lewis Sanders for plaintiffs in error.
I. A national bank may. not, through a contract condemned
as unlawful by its organic law, acquire from the fraudulent
lienors or bailees of negotiable instruments an indefeasible
title thereto as against the true owner.
In Felt v. lleye, 24 How. (N. Y.) 361, the court held that the
real owner of promissory notes which were unlawfully diverted by the pledgee, he placing them as collateral security
to an usurious loan, could not attack the loan for usury, not
being in privity with the borrower-the pledgee- the lender
hptving no knowledge but that the borrower owned the collateral; but held also that the owner could recover, because
an usurious, being an unlawful contract, the lender did not

OCTOBEIR TERhr, 1892.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

acquire the promissory notes pledged as collateral in good
faith in the ordinary course of business. See also Clarke v.
Shee, 1 Cowp. 197; Belmont Branch Bank v. lioge, 7 Bosworth (NT.Y.) 543, 556; Keutgen v. Parks, 2 Sandf. Sup. Ct.
(N. Y.) 60 ; Bank v. Lanier, 11 Wall. 369. A comparison of
this case with the last case cited discloses that it is stronger
against the bank than that case was: (1) In the Lanier case,
at the time of the bank's loan to Culver, the stock was Culver's. In the case at bar, at the time of defendant's certifications of Capron & Merriam's checks, the bonds belonged to
Mr: Thompson. (2) This action, like the Lanier case, does
not seek to disturb the contracts made by the bank with
either principals, Capron & Merriam, or the holders of the
certified checks. Whatever liability Capron & Merriam had
to the bank or the bank had to the holders of the checks, will
not be affected by this action. (3) The defence in each case,
a loan on stock and a loan by certifying checks, is a contract
prohibited to the banks under the same penalty. (4) In each
case the owner, unconnected with any transactions with the
bank, is seeking his property or its value.
A contract of a corporation which is ultra vires, in the proper
sense-that is to say, outside the object of its creation, as defined in the law of its organization, and, therefore, beyond the
powers conferred upon it by the legislature, is not voidable
only, but wholly void and of no legal effect. Ce'ntral TransPortation Co. v. Pullman's Palace Car, Co., 139 U. S. 24, 59,
60 ; PennsylvaniaRailroad v. St. Louis Alton., &c. Railroad,
118 U. S. 240, 317; Thomas v. Railroad Co., 101 U. S. 71, 86.
II. The defendant bank is not a holder for value. To he
so it must have paid value to Capron & Merriam, from whom
it received the bonds.
The bank's certifications of Capron & Merriam's checks
being illegal, furnish no consideration for the bonds. The
bank parted with no money at the time of the illegal certifying. The only transactions between the bank and Capron &
iMerriam were the unlawful certifications, and these can furnish no consideration unless an unbawful contract may be the
basis for a lawful remedy.

THOMPSON v. SAINT NICHOLAS NAT'L BANK. 245
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

III. These bonds were not transferred in the ordinary
course of business or in good faith.
It is a solecism to say that a contract in express terms
denounced by statute as "unlawful," is made in the ordinary
course of business. However universal the violation of the
statute may be by the national banks, daily forfeiting their
charters, in a court of justice, administering the law, a contract in violation thereof cannot in law be said to have been
made in the ordinary course of business, and if not made in
the ordinary course of business, the negotiable quality of the
securities did not pass to the bank, and it held them subject to
the equities of the true owner. Felt v. Heye, 23 Ihow. (N. Y.)
359, 361, 362; Daniel on Neg. Instrs. (2d ed.) § 769; Roberts
v. Hall, 37 Connecticut, 205.
IV. Defendant took and claims to hold Mr. Thompson's
bonds under a contract condemned by the law" this could not
be in the ordinary course of business. The negotiable quality
in such securities is an exception grafted upon the general law
of property for the convenience of trade- lawful business and is only available to promote that end. When the contract through which the title of the true owner is sought to
be defeated is not of that character, the property has not, in
fact, been negotiated, and the rights of the true owner are not
affected- by such transfer.
V. The defendant cited below the following authorities
relating to national banks: National Bank of Xenia v. Stewart, 107 U. S. 676; National Bank v. 3fatt]ews, 98 U. S. 621;
Gold Xining Co. v. National Bank, 96 U. S. 640; National
Bank v. Whitney, 103 U. S. 99; Reynolds v. Crawfordsville
.National Bank, 112 U. S. 405; Fortier v. New Orleans
National Bank, 112 U. S. 439. An examination of these
cases will disclose: (1) That the actions were between the
parties to the original contract, or their privies; (2) That the
party receiving the consideration was, while retaining it, seeking to defeat the bank's recovery, under a penalty, or by
the aid of the statute to set aside the contract and recover
the collaterals pledged with the bank; (3) That in none of the
cases were the rights of third parties involved; (4)That in

OCTOBER TERI,

1892.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

none of the cases was Rev. Stat. § 5208 involved ; (5) That in
none of the cases was the contract condemned by the statute
as "unlawful."
In the case at bar no question of forfeiture by the defendant is involved. The obligation of its contracts with Capron
& Merriam is not involved: The status quo of parties in 1'ari
delicto is not disturbed; the party receiving the consideration
is not availing himself of the statute as both sword and shield.
No rescission of the contract is sought.
VT. The prohibition against national banks loaning on the
security of their stock was enforced in National Bank v.
Zaizier, supra. See to the same point Conklin v. Second -National Bank of Oswego, 45 N. Y. 655.
VII. The contracts with national banks which have been
sustained by the United States Supreme Court have been, between the parties, executed and simply ultra vires, not prohibited.
In Nlrational Bank v. MAatthews, 98 U. S. 621, brought to
enjoin the foreclosure of a deed of trust assigned to the bank
as collateral security for a note, the court decided: (1) that
the deed of trust did not come within the letter or spirit of the
prohibition; (2) the plaintiff sought the interposition of a
court of equity, and was compelled to do equity; the same
rule would have been applied to an agreement void for usury;
(3) the party seeking to enjoin the foreclosure had received
the benefit thereof.
In the case at bar Mr. Thompson was neither a party to nor
a recipient of the benefit of the contracts of certification of
Capron & -Merriam's checks.
VIII. A contract made in violation of a statute is void,
and it is immaterial that it is not so declared in the statute
itself. The law adjudges it to be so, and courts do not undertake to pass upon the wisdom of the policy ofthe legislature
in enacting prohibitory statutes; 6 ocker v. Whitney, 71 N. Y.
161, 170; Penningtom v. Townsend k 7 Wend. 276; Bank of
the United States v. Owems, 2 Pet. 27; H~allett v. Novion, 14
Johns. 273; Barton v. Port Aackson' &c. Plank Road Co.,
17 Barb. 397.

THOMPSON v. SAINT NICHOLAS NAT'L BANK.

24T

Opinion of the Court.

Yr. William Allen Butler (with whom was Mr. John A
Taylor on the brief) for defendant L, error.
MR. JusTiCE BLATCHFORD, after stating the case as above
reported, delivered the opinion of the court.
The Federal question involved is the only one which we
can consider on this writ of error. It arises under the act of
March 3, 1869, 15 Stat. 335, c. 135, -which was the statute in
force on April 18, 1874, and read as follows: "It shall be unlawful for any officer, clerk or agent of any national bank
to certify any check drawn upon said bank, unless the person
or company drawing said check shall have on deposit in said
bank, at the time such check is certified, an amount of money
equal to the amount specified in such check; and any check
so certified by duly authorized officers shall be a good and
valid obligation against such bank; and any officer, clerk or
agent of any national bank violating the provisions of this act
shall subject such bank to the liabilities and proceedings on the
part of the comptroller as provided for in section fifty of the
national banking law, approved June third, eighteen hundred
and sixty-four." 13 Stat. 114, c. 106. The provisions of that
§ 50 were that the comptroller of the currency might forthwith appoint a receiver to wind up the affairs of the banking
association. The provisions of the act of March 3, 1869, are
now embodied in § 5208 of the Revised Statutes.
In regard to the Federal question involved, namely, the
certification of checks by the defendant for Capron & Merriam
without having on deposit an equivalent amount of money to
meet them, and the contention that the defendant did not
become a bond fide holder of the bonds in virtue of payments
made in pursuance of the agreement with that firm, the Court
of Appeals remarked, in its opinion, given by R uger, C. J.,
that the statute of the United States affirmed the validity of
the contract of certification, and expressly provided the consequences which should follow its violation; that the penalty
incurred was impliedly limited to a forfeiture of the bank's
charter and the winding up of its affairs; that it was thus

OCTOBER TERm, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

clearly implied that no other consequences were intended to
follow a violation of the statute; and that it would defeat the
very policy of an act intended to promote the security and
strength of the national banking system, if its provisions should
be so construed as to inflict a loss upon the banks and a consequent impairment of their financial responsibility. The
court then cited, to support that view, .-Yational Bank v.
-Matthtews, 98 U. S. 621, _National Bankc v. 174titney, 103 U. S.
99, and -NationalBank of Xenia v. Stewart, 107 U. S. 676.
The Court of Appeals .further said that it was of opinion
that the statute in question had no application to the question involved in this suit, which concerned only the relations
between Capron & Merriam and the defendant; that, by the
deposit of the bonds, the former secured the promise of the
defendant to protect their checks of a certain day for a specified amount; that the certification of the checks was entirely
aside from the agreement .between Capron & Mlerriam and
the defendant, and was a contract between the defendant and
the anticipated holders of the checks; that Capron & Merriam
had received the consideration of their pledge, when the defendant agreed with them to honor their checks, and that
would have been equally effectual, between the parties, without any certification; that the certification was simply a
promise to such persons as might receive the checks that they
should be 'paid on presentation to the defendant, in accordance with its previous agrebment with Capron & Merriam;
that the legal effect of the agreement'was that tue defendant
should loan a certain amount to Capron & Merriam, and
would pay it out on their checks to the persons holding such
checks; that it was entirely legal for the defundant to contract to pay Capron & Merriam's checks, and it did not
affect the legality of that transaction that the defendant also
represented to third parties that it had made such an agreement and would pay such checks; that Capron & Merriam
could not dispute their liability for the amount paid out in
aursuance of such agreement, nor could any other party,
icanding in the shoes of Capron & Merriam; that the fact
1hat the defendant, in connection with the agreement to

THOMPSON v. SAINT INICHOLAS NTAT'L BANK. 249
Opinion of the Court.

pay such checks, had also promised third parties to pay
them, could not invalidate the liability previously incurred, or
impair the security which had previously been given to the
defendant upon a valid consideration; that the fact of the
certification was entirely immaterial in respect to the liability
incurred by Capron & Merriam to the defendant; that there
was no evidence impairing the title to the bonds acquired by
the defendant through the transfer of them to it by Capron
& Merriam; that the purpose for which the bonds were transferred by the testator of the plaintiffs to Capron & Merriam
contemplated their transfer and sale by the latter to third
persons; that the defendant acquired a valid title to them by
their transfer to it; that the transaction between Capron &
Merriam and the defendant was in the ordinary course of
business pursued by the latter; that it received the bonds in
good faith, for a valuable consideration, and within all the
authorities this gave it a good title to the bonds; that it was
authorized to deal with them for the purpose of effecting the
object for which they were transferred to it; that its right to
hold the bonds continued so long as any part of its-debt
against Capron & Merriam remained unpaid; that the testator of the plaintiffs could at any time have established his
equitable right to a return of the bonds, and could have procured their surrender, by paying the amount for which they
were pledged, but he refrained from doing so, and impliedly
denied any right in the defendant by demanding the unconditional surrender of the bonds; and that he never became
entitled to such surrender, and of course was not authorized
to recover possession of them. We regard those views as
sound, and as covering this case.
The agreement of December 2, 1873, between Capron &
Merriam and the defendant, did not call for any act violating
the statute. There was nothing illegal in providing that the
securities which the bank might hold to secure the debt to it
of Capron & Merriam should be available to make good such
debt. The statute does not declare void a contract to secure
a debt arising on the certifications which it prohibits.
In addition to that, the statute expressly provides that a

OCTOBER TERIM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

check certified by a duly authorized officer of the bank, when
the customer has not on deposit an amount of money equal to
the amount specified in the check certified, shall nevertheless
be a good and valid obligation against the bank; and there is
nothing in the statute which, expressly or by implication, prohibits the bank from taking security for the protection of its
stockholders against the debt thus created. There is-no prohibition against a contract by the bank for security for a debt
which the statute contemplates as likely to come into existence, although the unlawful act of the officer of the bank in
certifying may aid in creating the debt. In order to adjudge
a contract unlawful, as prohibited by a statute, the prohibition
must be found in the statute. The subjection of the bank to
the penalty prescribed by the statute for its violation cannot
operate to destroy the security for the debt created by the
forbidden certification.
If the testator of the plaintiffs had pledged the bonds to the
defendant, he could not, after receiving the defendant's money,
have replevied the bonds; and after possession of the bonds
had been given by him to Capron & Merriam, and after they
had been subsequently taken by the defendant in good faith,
neither he nor his executors can set up the statute to destroy
the debt.
This construction of the statute in question is strengthened
by the subsequent enactment, on July 12, 1882, of § 13 of the
act of that date, c. 288, 22 Stat. 166, making it a criminal
offence in an officer, clerk or agent of a national bank to violate the provisions of the act of. March 3, 1869. This shows
that Congress only intended to impose, as penalties for overcertifying-.checks, a forfeiture of the franchises of the bank
and a punishment of the delinquent officer or clerk, and did
not intend to invalidate commercial transactions connected
with forbidden certifications. As the defendant was bound to
make good the checks to the holders of them, because the act
of 1869 declares that the checks shall be good and valid obligations againstihe defendant, it follows that Capron & 'Merriam were bound to make good the amounts to the defendant
It necessarily results that the defendant, on paying the checks,

THOMPSON v. SAINT NICHOLAS NAT'L BANK.

251

Opinion of the Court.

was as much entitled to resort to the securities which Capron
& Merriam had put into its hands, as it would have been to
apply money which they might have deposited to meet -6he
checks.
Moreover, it has been held repeatedly by this court that
where the provisions of the national banking act prohibit certain acts by banks or their officers, without imposing any penalty or forfeiture applicable to particular transactions which
have been executed, their validity can be questioned only by
the United States, and not by private parties. lVational Bank
v. .atthews, 98 U. S. 621; National Bank v. Vhitney, 103
U. S. 99 ; National Bank of Xenia v. Stewart, 107 U. S. 676.
The bonds in question came into the possession of the defendant before it certified the checks. They were not pledged
to it under any agreement or knowledge on its part, or in fact
on the part of Capron & Merriam, that subsequent certifications would be made. The certifications were made after the
pledge, and created a debt of Capron & Merriam to the defendant, which arose after the pledge. The agreement of
December 2, 1873, applied and became operative simultaneously with the certifications, but independently of them, as a
legal proposition.
In Logan County Bank v. Townsend, 139 U. &. 67, 77, decided in March, 1891, after the present case was decided by
the Court of Appeals of New York, this court approved the
decision in National Bank v. Whitney, 103 U. S.99, and said
that a disregard by a national bank of the provisions of the
act of Congress forbidding it to-take a mortgage to secure an
indebtedness then existing, as well as future advances, could
not be taken advantage of by the debtor, but "only laid the
institution open to proceedings by the government for exercising powers nct conferred by law."
Judgment affinmed.

