BROWN v. BAXTER.
Syllabus.

Pacific's prospective right of selection prevented the passing
of title to the Southern Pacific.
The decrees in both cases will be reversed, and the cases
remanded with instructions to enter decrees in favor of
the governmentfor the relief sought.

fRB.

JUSTICE

FIELD,

(with whom concurred AIR. JusTIcE

GuY,) dissenting.

In these cases I dissent from the-judgment of the court
equally as from that in the cases just decided. It is now
held that not only the lands within the granted limits of the
Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company passed to that company beyond the power of Congress to assign any portion of
them for the construction of the Southern Pacific Company,
although no work was done by the former corporation,
and the grant to it was forfeited, but the indemnity lands
also. The objections urged to the judgment in the other cases
just decided possess greater force in these cases, for indemnity
lands do not vest in any company until they are selected.
Even if the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company had built
the road, it would have had no indemnity lands until selection
was made; much less can it be held that title vested in that
company before any attempt was madeto exhaust the lands
within the granted limits.
I think the judgment in these cases should also be affirmed,
and I am authorizea to state that MR. JUSTICE GRAY concurs
with me in this dissent.

BROWN v. BAXTER.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS' OF THE STATE OF KENTUCKY.
No. 1123. Submitted December 12, 1892. -Decided

"'.

December 19, 1892.

A writ of ekror to the Court of Appeals of a State, to review a judgment of
-that court dismissing an appeal and remanding the case for further proceedings in the state court below, is dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Syllabus.

THIs was an action begun and prosecuted to judgment in a
Circuit Court of the State of Kentucky. From that judgment
appeal and cross-appeal were taken to the Court of Appeals of
the State. That court, after hearing, ordered "that said judgment be reversed on the original appeal and affirmed on'the
cross-appeal and cause remanded for further proceedings consistent with the opinion herein, which is ordered to be certified
to said court."
The case was brought here by writ of error, to review a
Federal question.
-Mr. T.

E. Burnett and -Mr.
H. H.

ane for plaintiff in

error.
-Mr. F.J. Lisle for defendant in error.
THE CHIEF JusncE: The writ of error is dismissed upon
the authority of -Yeagherv. AMinnesota Co., 145 U. S. 608; Rice
v. Sanger, 144 U. S. 197; Johnson v. Keith, 117 U. S. 199.

IMEANS v. BANK OF RANDALL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF KANSAS.
No. 63. Submitted December 2, 1892.-Decided December 19, 1892.

L. desiring to purchase qattle from P., a bank paid the purchase money for
L. to P., and P. delivered the cattle to the bank, and they were shipped
by rail to AT., in sIx cars, to sell, accompanied by P. and L. and one G.
A-bill of lading for four of the-cars was issued in the name of L. A bill
of lading was to be issued for the other two cars in the name of G., as a
pass could be issued to only two persons on one bill of lading. G. had
no interest in the cattle. The cattle in the six cars were delivered to M.
A draft was drawn by L. against the shipment on M., and endorsed and
delivered by L. to the bank, with the bill of lading for the four cars.
The draft and bill of lading were presented to M., but the draft was not
accepted .or paid. Three hours afterwards M. sold the cattle but kept
the proceeds because he claimed that L. was indebted to him on an old

