OCTOBER TER!M, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

HUBBARD v. SOBY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF CONNECTICUT.
No. 1094. Submitted October 17, 1892. -Decided

October 31, 1892.

This court has no jurisdiction over a writ of error sued out June 11, 1892,
from a judgment rendered by a Circuit Court of the United States
against a collector of customs in a suit brought to recover back an
alleged excess of duties paid upon an importation of goods made prior
to the going into effect of the act of'Congress of June 10, 1890, " to
simplify the laws in relation to the collection of the revenues," 26 Stat.
131, c. 407.

MOTION TO Dismiss.

The motion, entitled in the cause, was

as follows:
"Charles Soby, defendant in the cause above entitled, moves
the court to dismiss the writ of error therein, for want of
jurisdiction in this court to hear and determine the same.
"This is a suit between two citizens of Connecticut, brought
October 9, 1890, in the Circuit Court of the United States for
the district of Connecticut by said Charles Soby against said
Charles C. Hubbard, to recover an alleged excess of duties
upon imports exacted by said Hubbard, in his capacity of
collector of customs of the port of Hartford, from said Charles
Soby; the jurisdiction of said"Circuit Court being entirely
dependent upon the federal question thus arising under the
customs-revenue laws of the United States. The Circuit
Court found the exaction to be illegal, and gave judgment for
the plaintiff below, defendant in error here, on the 27th day
of February, 1892. Thereupon, on the 11th day of June, 1892,
the present plaintiff in error sued out the writ of error which
brings the proceedings here.
"Inasmuch as, under the sixth section of the act of March
3, 1891, 26 Stat. c. 517, pp. 826, 8$28, no writ of error to this
Court lies to such final judgment of said Circuit Court, the
said defendant in error now moves that said writ be dismissed
with costs."

HUBBARD v. SOBY.
Argument against the Motion.

The material part of the sixth section of the act of March
3, 1891, "to establish Circuit Courts of Appeals and to define
and regulate in certain cases the jurisdiction of the courts of
the United States," is as follows :
"The Circuit Courts of Appeals established by this act shall
exercise appellate jurisdiction to review by appeal or writ of
error final decision in the district court and the existing circuit
courts in all cases other than those provided for in the preceding section of this act, unless otherwise provided by law,
and the judgments or decrees of the Circuit Courts of Appeals
shall be final in all cases in which the jurisdiction is dependent
entirely upon the opposite parties to the suit or controversy,
being aliens and citizens of the United States or citizens of
different States; also in all cases arising under the patent
laws, under the revenue laws, and under the criminal laws and
in admiralty cases, excepting," etc.
. r. Lewis E. Stanton and AXr. Edwin B. Smith for the
motion.
.Xr'. Assistant Attorney General _Yaui-y opposi'ig.
It would be an abuse of the patience of the court to cite the
cases in which it has been held that the mere fact that the
subject-matter of a prior special law falls within the language
of a subsequent general law does not warrant the conclusion
that the two laws are in collision, and that the earlier is repealed by the later.
The language of the act of March 3, 1891, is, it may be
conceded, broad enough to embrace the case at bar; but the
question that arises in this case, and that arose in the many
cases in which the above-mentioned principle of cpnstruction
has been applied, is whether the legislative intent is coextensive with the generality of the language of the statute, for it
is the intent, and not necessarily the literal sense of the words,
that must prevail.
It will be remembered that the Customs Administrative act
of June 10, 1890, 26 Stat. 131, c. 407, established an entirely new

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument against the Motion.

procedure for the review of the acts of collectors of customs
in assessing duties on importations. But as that act did not

go into effect until August 1, 1890, except as to the provision
for the appointment of nine general appraisers, it was necessary to make provision for rights that had accrued and proceedings that had been commenced under the old laws prior
to August 1, 1890, and, accordingly, it was provided- as an
exception to the repealing section 29, as follows: "But the
repeal of existing laws or modifications thereof embraced in
this act shall not affect any act done, or any right accruing or
accrued, or any suit or proceeding had or commenced, in any
civil cause before the said repeal or modifications; but all
rights and liabilities under said laws shall continue and may
be enforced in the same manner as if said repeal or modifications had not been made. Any offences cominitted,,and all
penalties or forfeitures or liabilities incurred, prior to the
passage of this act, under any statute embraced in or changed,
modified, or repealed by this act, may be prosecuted or punished in the same manner and with the same effect as if this
act had not been passed. All acts of limitation, whether applicable to civil causes and proceedings or to the prosecution
of offences, or for the recovery of penalties or forfeitures embraced in or modified, changed, or repealed by this act, shall
not be affected thereby; and all suits, proceedings, or prosecutions, whether civil or criminal, for causes arising or acts
done or committed prior td the passage of this act, may be
commenced and prosecuted within the same time and with
the same effect as if this act had not been passed." It would
seem clear that the right of the importer, Soby, to contest the
collector's final liquidation of duty in July, 1890, was a i iglit
that accrued under the old law, and if a right that had accrued under the old law, then it was a right which the saving clause says "shall continue and may be enforced in the
same manner as if said repeal or modifications had not been
made."
The saving clause of the act of 1890 declares that no suit or
proceedings under the former law in any civil cause shall be
affected by the act. If, then, the importer's appeal to the

HUBBARD v- SOBY.
Argument against the Motion.

Secretary of the Treasury of July 22, 1890, was not a suit, it
would seem to have been a proceeding in a civil cause; and
if the proceeding by way of appeal to the Secretary was not
to be affected, we may reasonably conclude that Congress
meant that the remedy thus initiated was to be undisturbed
in all its after stages.
Section 6 of the act of March 3, 1891, conferring on Circuit
Courts of Appeals jurisdiction in revenue cases, cannot be
construed as a repeal of the provisions of the saving clause
in the act of 1890.
The case of -Ex _parte Crow Dog, 109 U. S., 556, 570, is a
direct authority against the argument supporting the theory
that the saving clause of the act of 1890 is affected by the act
of March 3, 1891. Mr. Justice Matthews, in his masterly
opinion in that case, adopts the law laid down by Chief Justice Bovill in Tlioie v. Adams, L. R. 6 C. P. 135, and ViceChancellor Wood in Fitzgerald v. Chiampenys, 30 L. J., N. S.
Eq. 782; 2 Johns. & Hem. 31, 54.
"The general principle to be applied," said the Chief Justice, "to the construction of acts of Parliament is, that a
general act is not to be construed to repeal a previous particular act, unless there is some express reference to the previous
legislation on the subject, or unless there is a necessaryinconsistency in the two acts standing together."
"And the reason is," said the vice-chancellor, "that the
legislature h ving had its attention directed tp aspecial subject, and having observed all the circumstances of the case
and provided for theim, does not intend, by a general enactYnent afterwards to derogate from its own act Xvhen it makes
no special -mention of its intention so to do." And, said Mr.
Justice Matthews, in the case of Crow Dog, "the rule is, generaliaspecialibus non derogant."
If our view is correct, the case of Lau Ow Bew, 144 U. S.
47, 56, 57, has no relevancy whatever to this discussion, because the court in that case confined itself entirely to the
effect of the Courts of Appeals act on conflicting anterior legislation of a general character. There was nothing in that case
to call the attention of the court to anterior speoial legislation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Syllabus.

THE CHIEF JUSTICE: This was a suit brought October 9,
1890, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Connecticut to recover an alleged excess of duties upon
imports exacted by plaintiff in error in his capacity of collector of customs of the port of Hartford, prior to the going into
effect of the act of Congress of June 10, 1890, entitled "An
act to simplify the laws in relation to the collection of the
revenues," 26 Stat. 131. Judgment was given for defendant
in error, February 27, 1892, and on June 11, 1892, the pending
writ of error was sued out. The motion to dismiss the writ
must be sustained upon the authority of .Lau Ow Bew v. United
8tates, 144 U. S. 47; .9fe.Lish v. Rof, 141 U. S. 661.
TFr'it of error dismissed.

EARNSIIAW v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN
No.4.

DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

Argued October17, 1892.-Decided November 7, 1892.

A reappraisement of imported merchandise under the provisions of Rev.
Stat. ยง 2930, when properly conducted, is binding.
When the facts are undisputed in an action to recover back money paid to a
collector of customs on such reappraisement, the reasonableness of the
notice to the importer of the time and place appointed for the reappraisement is a question of law for the court.
Appraisers appointed under the provisions of Rev. Stat. ยง 2930 to reappraise
imported goods constitute a quasi-judicial tribunal, wiose action within
its discretion, when that discretion is not abused, is final.
An importer appealed from an appraisement of goods imported into New
York, ifl 1882. A day in June, 1883, was fixed for hearing the appeal.
The Government, not being then ready, asked for an adjournment, which
was granted without fixing a day, and the importer was informed that he
would be notified when the case would be heard. March 19, 1884, notice
was sent by letter to him at his residence in Philadelphia, that the appraisement would take place in New York, on the followinz day. His
clerk replied by letter that the importer was absent, in Cuba, not to
return before the beginning of May then next, and asked a postponement
till that time. The appraisers replied by telegram that the case was ad-

