SCOTT v. ARMSTRONG.
Syllabus.

can be liable to pay rent for the use of the vessel only while
she was in its service. The libellant recovered all that. it was
entitled to recover.
Decree acffrmed, but

oithout interest, and with costs.

SCOTT v. ARMS.TRONG.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

FARMERS'

AND

MERCHANTS' STATE
ARMSTRONG.

CERTIFICATE FROM THE UNITED

STATES

COURT

BANK v.

OF APPEALS

FOR

THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.
Nes. 53, 1025.

Argued November 18, 21, 1892.-

Decided December 12, 1892.

The closing of a national bank by order of the examiner, the appointment
of a, receiver, and its dissolution by decree of a Circuit Court necessarily
transfer the assets of the bank to the receiver.
The receiver in such case takes the assets in trust for creditors, and, in the
absence of a statute to the contrarj, subject to all claims and defences
that might have been interposed against the insolvent corporation.
The ordinary equity rule of set-off in case of insolvency is that, where the
mutual obligations have grown out of the same transaction, insolvency;
on the one hand, juctifies the set-off of the debt due, on the other; and
there is nothing in the statutes relating to national banks which prevents the application of that rule to the receiver of an insolvent national bank under circumstances like those in this case.
A customer of a national bank who in good faith borrows money of the
bank, gives his note therefor due at a future day, and deposits the amount
borrowed to be drawn against, any balance to be applied to the payment
of the note when due, has an equitable (but not a legal) right, in case of
the insolvency and dissolution of the bank and the appointment of
a receiver before the maturity of the note, to have the balance to his
credit at the time of the insolvency applied to the payment of his indebtedness on the note.
In this case this court reverses the judgment of the court below, declining
to sustain It upon a jurisdictional ground not passed upon by that court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

No. 53 was an action brought by David Armstrong, receiver
of the Fidelity, National Bank of Cincinnati, Ohio, against
Levi Scott and the Farmers' and Merchants' State Bank, in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of Ohio, upon a promissory note for $10,000, dated at
Cincinnati on June 6, 1887, payable ninety days after date, at
said Fidelity Bank, with interest after maturity at the rate of
8 per cent per annum, signed by Scott and endorsed by the
Farmers' Bank to the order of the Fidelity Bank.
The defendant Scott was the cashier of-his codefendant, and
pleaded that he signed the note for the accommodation of the
banks under an agreement that he should not be looked to for
its payment. The Farmers' Bank made the same averments
as to Scott, and pleaded a set-off to the amount of $8809.94,
as arising on certain facts, in substance as follows: That the
Fidelity Bank lent the Farmers' Bank the $10,000 at a discount at the rate of seven per cent per annum, for ninety days,
under an agreement that the money so borrowed, less the discount, should be placed to the credit of the Farmers' Bank on
the books of the Fidelity Bank; that the note in suit was
executed accordingly, dated and discounted on June 6, 1887,
and the proceeds, $9819.17, were placed to the credit of the
Farmers' Bank upon the books of the Fidelity Bank, to meet
any checks or drafts of th6 Farmers' Bank, and to pay the
note when it became due; that afterwards, and before June
20, the Farmers' Bank drew against the deposit the sum of
$1009.23, and the balance, $8809.94, remained to the credit of
the defendant to meet the note, and was so to its credit at the
time the receiver was appointed; that upon the maturity of
the note and before suit was brought, defendant tendered to
the receiver the sum of 81190.06, the balance due on the note;
and that the tender had since that time been kept good, and
the money was now brought into court.
Demurrers to the pleas were sustained and judgment was
entered for the plaintiff for $10,833.33, with interest and
costs. The judgment, as provided by section 5419 of the
Revised Statutes of Ohio, contained a cetificate that the
Farmers' Bank was liable as principal and Scott as surety.

SCOTT v. ARMSTRONG.
Statement of the Case.

The opinion of the Circuit Court, by' the District Judge, will
be found in 36 Fed. Rep. 63, and states that the Circuit Judge
concurred in its conclusions as being in accord with his opinion
in Bung Company v. Armstrong, Receiver, reported in 31
Fed. Rep. 9. The case being brought here by writ of error,
it was assigned for error that the court erred in sustaining the demurrers and in rendering judgment against the defendants below.
While the writ of error was pending, a bill in equity was
filed in the Circuit Court in behalf of the Farmers' Bank and
Scott against Armstrong, as receiver, praying for an injunction against the judgment and for the enforcement of the
set-off. Armstrong demurred, his demurrer was sustained,
the bill dismissed, and an appeal taken to the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. That court certified to this
court for instructions as to the proper decision, seven questions, accompanied by a brief statement of the contents of the

bill and proceedings thereon.
The bill, as summarized by the court, rehearsed the facts
set forth in the answers in the suit at law somewhat more in
detail, and among other things stated that "on the 20th day
of June, 1887, said Fidelity Bank was closed by order of the
bank examiner of the United States, and thereafter remained
closed;" that "on June 27, 1887, the Comptroller of the Currency of the United States, having become satisfied that said
Fidelity Bank was insolvent, appointed the appellee, David
Armstrong, receiver of said bank to wind up its affairs, as
provided under the authority given by the laws of the United
States in such case made and provided, and said receiver qualified and entered upon the- performance of his duties as such.
On July 12, 1887, the charter of said Fidelity Bank was forfeited and said banking association dissolved by the deciee
of the Circuit Court. of the United States for the Southern
District of Ohio;" and that "said Fidelity Bank was in good
credit at the time said discount was made, and was then
thought by said Scott and said state bank, with good reason
for so thinking, to be solvent, but was in fact insolvent and
known so to be by said Harper," its managing officer, with
whom the transaction had been had.

OOTOE3ER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

The recovery of the judgment and pendency of the writ
of error were also set forth, and it was averred "that said
Scott and said state bank were advised said Circuit Court
sitting as a court of law had not jurisdiction to entertain and
adjudge upon the set-off pleaded as aforesaid, and that relief
should be sought in a court of equity;" the tender was re:
iterated; and it was prayed, among other things, "that the
collection of the judgment at law might be enjoined, and that
the set-off might be established and allowed." The grounds
of demurrer were:
"1. That it appeared from the bill that the complainants
were not entitled to the relief sought.
"2. That the complainants had an adequate remedy at law
for the relief sought, which had been already adjudicated."
The case on certificate is No. 1025. The first, second and
fourth questions are as follows:
"1. Where a national bank becomes insolvent and its assets
pass into the hands of a receiver appointed by the Comptroller
of the Currency, can a debtor of the bank set off against his
indebtedness the amount of a claim he holds against the bank,
supposing the debt due from the bank to have been payable
at the time of its suspension, but that due to it to have been
payable at a time subsequent thereto ?
"2. Has a Circuit Court of the United States, sitting in
Ohio as a court of law, jurisdiction to entertain a defence oC
.set-off as against an action brought by a receiver appointed
by the Comptroller of the Currency to wind up the affairs
of a national bank doing business in Ohio because of its insolvency, upon a note held by said bank, which note matured
and became payable after the appointment'of such receiver?"
"14. Where a national bank doing business in Ohio in 1887
discounts a promissory note with the understanding that the
proceeds of the discount are to remain on deposit with it
subject to the checks of the borrower and any balance of such
deposit remaining undrawn at the maturity of the note is to
be applied as a credit thereon, and where at the time such
discount was made said bank was in fact insolvent and known
so to be by the officer through whom it acted in making such

SCOTT v. ARMSTRONG.
Citations for Plaintiffs in Error.

discount and agreement, but such bank was then in good
credit and thought by the borrower to be solvent, with good
reason for so thinking, and where afterwards, the insolvency
of said bank becoming known to the Comptroller of the
Currency, that officer assumed charge of said bank and afterwards, in June, 1887, but before the maturity of the note so
discounted, appointed a receiver to close up the affairs of said
bank, can such borrower by suit in equity against such receiver
compel a set-off of the balance of said deposit account at the
time of the suspension of said bank against the amount due
upon such note at its maturity ?"
The third, fifth, sixth and seventh related to the effect of
the judgment at law as a bar to the bill in equity.
Xr. William Worthington, (with whom was Kr. J. TF
Warrington on the brief,) for plaintiffs in error and appellants,
cited the following cases as to the right of set-off under the
early English statutes of bankruptcy: Anonymous, 1 Mod.
215 (1676); Curson v. African Co., I Vern. 121 (1682); Chap
man v. Derby, 2 Vern. 117 (1689); Peters v. Soame, 2 Vern.
428 (1701); Loid .Lanesboroughv. Jones, 1 P. Wins. 325 (1716);
Downam v. .atthews, Prec. Ch. 580, pl. 351 (1721); Jefs v.
Wood, 2 P. Wms. 128 (1723); Hawkins v. Freeman, 2 Eq:
Cas. Abr. 10 pl. 10 (1723). With regard to the, effect of the
statutory provisions as to winding up insolvent national banks
upon the doctrine of set-off, he cited: (1867) Venango IyationaZ Bk. v. Taylor, 56 Penn. St. 14; (1872) Platt v. Bentley, 11 Am. Law Reg. (N. S.) 171.; (1878) Hade v. .Mc T ay,
31 Ohio St. 231; (1883) Balch v. Wilson, 25 Minnesota, 299;
(1888) Balbach v. Frelinghutysen, 15 Fed. Rep. 675; (1888)
United States Bung ffanufacturing Co. v. Armstrong, 34
Fed. Rep. 94; (1888) Armstrong v. Scott, 36 Fed. Rep. 63 (the
case at bar); (1888) Snyders' Son Co. v. Armstrong, 37 Fed.
Rep. 18; (1889) Stephens v. Schuchmann, 32 Mo. App. 333;
(1889) Armstrong v. Warner, 21 Weekly Law Bull. 136;
(1889) Armstrong v. Second Nat'l Bank of Springfleld, 38
Fed. Rep. 883; (1889) Tehan v. First Nat. Bank of Auburn,
39 Fed. Rep. 577; (1891) Armstrong v. Law, 27 Weekly Law

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

Bull. 100; (1892) Yardley v. Clothier, 49 Fed. Rep. 337;
(1892) Armstrong v. W'arner, 27 Weekly Law Bull. 330.
Ar&. J

JT.

Herron, for defendant in error and appellee.

In- United States Bung Xfani facturing Co. v. Armstrong,
34 Fed. Rep. 94, Judge Jackson says: "It is well settled that
the mere existence of cross-demands, or independent debts,
does not create any right to an equitable set-off. There must
exist a mutual credit between the parties, founded at the time
upon the existence of some debt due 'by the crediting party to
the other . . . Aiutual credits such as would give rise to
an equitable set-off apply only to that class of cases where
there has been mutual trust or understanding that an existing
debt should be discharged by a credit given upon the ground
of such debt."
In this case there was no knowledge on either side "of an
existing debt due to one, founded on and trusting to such debt
as a means of discharging it." It is true that the deposit
resulted from the discount of the note in controversy; but
that did not change the character of the deposit unless connected with an agreement that it could be used as a set-off to
the note. The transaction negatives in the strongest manner
any such knowledge or intention. The parties did not occupy
the relation usual between bankers and their depositors, where
one party deposits a sum in a bank, and borrows money from
that bank, a4d when this loan is due pays it by checks on the
money so deposited. The State Bank borrowed this money
not to let it lie in .the Fidelity Bank, but to be used by it in its
own business. It paid a discount upon the entire amount, for
the entire time the note had to run. The note and the deposit account were therefoye wholly independent claims and
were not the subject of set-off.
The question principally relied on in the present case is,
whether the national banking act modifies in any respect, and
if so hoiv far, any right of set-off which might on principles
of law or equity be applicable in the case of other classes of
insolvents?

SCOTT v. ARMSTRONG.
Argument for Defendant ih Error.

I do not claim that no cross demand can in any case be
allowed by the court in the case of the insolvency of national
banks.
In the case of a current account existing between a national
bank and another, the balance of the account due at the time
ol the act of insolvency only can be collected. In such a case
both sides of the account constitute but one account, and the
excess of the larger over the smaller side of that account is the
sum actually due between the parties.
Where the debtor bank has on the faith of its indebtedness
accepted or agreed to accept a draft drawn on that indebtedness, so as to render it liable to the holder of that draft, it
may deduct the amount of that draft from the account; not
entirely on the doctrine of set-off, but as a payment made on
the account. The agreement to pay- the draft out of that
fund is treated the same as if it had actually been paid. This
was the case in Ar'mstrong v. Seventh _ralional Bank of
Philadelphia,38 Fed. Rep. 883.
An agreement to sell bonds of the debtor, and to credit the
proceeds on the note of that debtor held by the bank, will be enforced when the bank holding the paper has received and sold
such bonds, and not made the credit. This was the case in
The VTenango Bank v. Taylor, 56 Penn. St. 14.
In this case Justice Strong allowed the credit, not as a setoff but because there had been an understanding that the
proceeds of such sale should be applied 6n the debt.
Where the note held by the insolvent bank is past due at
the time of the insolvency, -and it, at the same time, held a
deposit account of the debtor on the note, also due, a set-off
will probably be allowed. In such cases set-off legally applies,
and the bank has the right to charge the past due paper
to the account, and the debtor ought to have given his
check for the amount due him to pay such note in whole or
part: no injury in such a case is done to the geheral creditors.
But where a national bank at the time of an act of insolvency, holds a discounted note not due, and the debtor has in
the same bank a deposit account not placed there on account
of, or to meet that note, which the bank cannot take or hold

OCTOBER TERIME, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

for its debt, the national banking law, as I claim, prohibits
the receiver from receiving the deposit as payment in whole
or in part of the note. He must hold the note in trust for the
general creditors, including the debtor, to collect it and divide
the proceeds ratably among them. Rev. Stat. §§ 5234, 5236,
5242; lational Bank v. Colby, 21 Wall. 609, 613; Pacific
National Bank v. _Mi3ter, 124 U. S. 721,- 725 ; V-enango Ban k
v. Taylor, 56 Penn. St. 16; Stephens v. Schuchmann, 32 M,[o.
App. 333; Snyders' Sons Co. v. Arrmstrong, 37 Fed. Rep. 18;
.Armstrong v. Tarner, 21 Weekly Law Bull. 136; Yardley
v. Olothier, 49 Fed. Rep. 337.
As to the equity suit, I have argued that there was no legal
set-6ff in this case which a court of law could recognize. Will
a court of equity go further than the legal rights of the parties
authorizes a court of law to do? Equity favors an equal distribution of the assets'of an insolvent national bank. Equity
grants the same relief to all creditors alike. So far as this
deposit is concerned the State Bank stands no higher, has been
no more defrauded or injured, than every other depositor has,
and is entitled to no higher consideration. That bank should
stand or fall upon its legal rights. Equity will not stretch its
rules to protect it, to the loss of other creditors. The question.
here is solely between the general creditors represented by the
receiver, and the State Bank. It should suffer equally with
them. The national banking act recognizes in the strongest
language the equity of this equality. This court has fully
recognized the justice of that equality.
I submit that the law case, No. 55, should be affirmed by
this court, and the questions submitted by the Circuit Court of
Appeals answered in such a manner as will authorize the
receiver to enforce the judgment rendered in the action at
law.
Mi . COiaF JusTICE FuLLEP, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.

The Fidelity National Bank was closed by order of the
bank examiner -June 20, the receiver was appointed June 27,

SCOTT v. ARMSTRONG.
Opinion of 'the Court.

and the charter of the bank was forfeited and the bank dissolved by the decree of the Circuit Court, July 12, 1887. Title
to its assets was necessarily thereby transferred to the receiver.
National Baznk v. Colby, 21 Wall. 609.
The note in controversy did not mature until September 7,
1887, but the deposit to the credit of the Farmers' Bank was
due for the purposes of suit upon the closing of the Fidelity
Bank, as under such circumstances no demand was necessary.
The receiver took the assets of the Fidelity Bank as a mere
trustee for creditors, and n ot for value and without notice, and,
in the absence of statute tc the contrary, subject to all claims
and defences that might h. -e been interposed as against the
insolvent corporation before the liens of the United States and
of the general creditors attached.
The right to assert set-off at law is of statutory creation, but
courts of equity from a very early day were accustomed to
grant relief in that regard independently as well as in aid of
statutes upon the subject.
In equity, relief was usually accorded, says Mr. Justice
Story, (Eq. Jur. § 1435,) "where, although there are mutual
and independent debts, yet there is a mutual credit between
the parties, founded, at the time, upon the existence of some
debts due by the crediting party to the other. By mutual
credit, in the sense in which the terms are here used, we are
to understand, a knowledge on both sides of an existing debt
due to one party, and a credit by the other party, founded on,
and trusting to such debt, as a means of discharging it."
This definition is hardly broad enough to cover all the cases
where, as the learned commentator concedes, there being a
"connection between the demands, equity acts upon it, and
§ 1434.
allows a set-off under particular circumstances."
Courts of equity frequently deviate from the strict rule of
mutuality when the justice of the particular case requires it,
and the ordinary rule is that where the mutual obligations
have grown out of the same transaction, insolvency on the one
hand justifies the set-off of the debt due upon the other. Blouni
v. Windley, 95 U. S. 173, 177.
In Carr v. Hamilton, 129 U. S. 252, 262, it was decided

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

that, wuen a life insurance company becomes insolvent and
goes into liquidation, the amount due on an endowment policy,
payable in any event at a fixed time, may, in settling the company's affairs, be set off against the amount due on a mortgage
deed from the holder of the policy to the company by way of
compensation; and Mr. Justice Bradley, delivering the opinion
of the court, said: "We are inclined to the view that where
the holder of a life insurance policy borrows money of his
insurer, it will be presumed, _prima facie, that he does so on
the faith of the insurance and in the expectation of possibly
meeting his own obligation to the company by that of the
company to him, and that the case is one of mutual credits,
and entitled'to the privilege of compensation or set-off whenever the mutual liquidation of the demands is judicially decreed on the insolvency of the company." And the case of
Scammon v. .iimball, 92 U. S. 362, was referred to, where it
was held that a bank, having insurance in a company which
was rendered insolvent by the Chicago fire of 1871, had a right
to set off the amount of his insurance on property consumed
against money of the company in his hands on deposit,
although the insurance was not a debt due at the time of the
insolvency.
Indeed natural justice would seem to require that where
the transaction is such as to raise the presumption of an
agreement for a set-off it should be held that the equity that
this should be done is superior to any subsequent equity not
arising out of a purchase for value without notice.
In the case at bar the credits between the banks were
reciprocal and were parts of the sam6 transaction, in which
each gave credit to the other on the faith of the simultaneous
credit, and the principle applicable to mutual credits applied.
It was; therefore, the balance upon an adjustment of the
accounts.which 'Was the debt, and the Farmers' Bank had the
right, as against the receiver of the Fidelity Bank, although
the note matured after the suspension of that bank, to set off
the balance due upon its deposit account, unleis the provisions
of the national banking law were to the contrary. Whether
this was so or not is the question on which the opinion of the

SCOTT v. ARMSTRONG.
Opinion of the Court.

District Judge turned, and which was chiefly urged in argument upon our attention.
Sections 5234, 5236 and 5242 are the sections relied on.
Section 5234 provides for the appointment of a receiver by the
Comptroller of the Currency and defines his duties as follows:
"Such receiver, under the direction of the Comptroller,
shall take possession of the books, records and assets of every
description of such association, collect all debts, dues and
claims belonging to it, and, upon the order of a court of record
of competent jurisdiction, may sell or compound all bad or
doubtful debts, and, on a like order, may sell all the real and
personal property of such association, on such terms as the
court shall direct; and may, if necessary to pay the debts of
such association, enforce the individual liability of the stockholders. Such receiver shall pay over a11 money so made
to the Treasurer of the United States, subject to the order of
the Comptroller, and also make report to the Comptroller
of all his acts and proceedings."
Section 5236 provides:
"From time to time, after full provision has been first made
for refunding to the United States any deficiency in redeeming
the notes of such association, the Comptroller shall make a
ratable dividend of the money so paid over to him by such
receiver on all such claims as may have been proved to his
satisfaction or adjudicated in a court of competent jurisdiction,
and, as the proceeds of the assets of such association are paid
over to him, shall make further dividends on all claims previously proved or adjudicated; and the remainder of the proceeds, if any, shall be paid over to the shareholders of such
association, or their legal representatives, inproportion to the
stock by them respectively held."
Section 5242 reads:
"All transfers of the notes, bonds, bills of exchange or
other evidences of debt owing to any national banking association, or of deposits to its credit; all assignments of mortgages,
sureties on real-estate, or of judgments or decrees in its favor;
all deposits of money, bullion, or other valuable thing for its
use, or for the use of any of its shareholders or creditors; and

OCTOBER TERAM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

all payments of money to either, made after the commission
of an act of insolvency, or in contemplation thereof, made
with a view to prevent the application of its assets in the
manner prescribed by this chapter, or with a view to the
preference of one creditor to another, except in payment of its
circulating notes, shall be utterly null and void; and no attachment, injunction or execution, shall be issued against such association or its property before final judgment in any suit, action
or proceeding, in any state, county or municipal court."
The argument is that these sections by implication forbid
this set-off because they require that after the redemption of
the circulating notes has been fully provided for, the assets
shall be ratably distributed among the creditors, and that no
preferences given or suffered, in contemplation of or after
committing the act of insolvency, shall stand. And it is insisted that the assets of the bank existing at the time of the
act of insolvency include all its property without regard to
any existing liens thereon or set:offs thereto.
We do not regard this position as tenable. Undoubtedly,
any disposition by a national bank, being insolvent or in contemplation of insolvency, of its choses in action, securities or
other assets, made to prevent their application to the payment
of its circulating notes, or to prefer one creditor to another, is
forbidden; but liens, equities or rights arising by express agreement, or implied from the nature of the dealings between the
parties, or by operation of law, prior to insolvency and not in
contemplation thereof, are not invalidated. The provisions of
the act are not directed against all liens, securities, pledges or
equities, whereby one creditor may obtain a greater payment
than another, but against those given or arising after or in
'contemplation of insolvency. Where a set-off is otherwise
valid, it is not perceived how its allowance can be considered
a preference, and it is clear that it is only the balance, if any,
after the set-off is deducted which can justly be held to form
part of the assets of the insolvent. The requirement as to
,ratable dividends, is to make them from what belongs to the
-bank, and that which at the time of the insolvency belongs of
right to the debtor does. not belong to the bank.

SCOTT v. ARMSTRONG.
Opinion of the Court.

There is nothing new in this view of ratable distribution.
As pointed out by counsel, the bankruptcy. act of 13 Eliz. c. 7,
contained no provision in any way directing a set-off or the
striking of a balance, and by its second section, commissioners
in bankruptcy were to seize and appraise the lands, goods,
money and chattels of the bankrupt, to sell the lands and
chattels, "or otherwise to order the same for true satisfaction
and payment of the said creditors, that is to say, to every of
the said creditors a portion, rate and rate alike, according to
the quantity of his or their debts." 4 Statutes of the Realm,
Part I, 539. Yet, in the earliest reported decisions upon setoff, it was allowed under this statute. Anonymous, 1 Mlod.
215; Curson v. African Co., 1 Vern. 121; Cliapman v. Derby,
2 Vern. 117.
The succeeding statutes were but in recognition, in bankruptcy and otherwise, of the practice in chancery in the settlement of estates, and it may be said that in $he distribution of
the assets of insolvents under voluntary or statutory trusts for
creditors the.set-off of debts due has been universally conceded.
The equity of equality among creditors is either found inapplicable to such set-offs or yields to their superior equity.
We are dealing in this case with. an equitable set-off, but if
on June 20 the note had matured and each party had a cause
of action capable of enforcement by suit at once, upon the
argument for the receiver the legal set-off would be destroyed
just as effectually as it is contended the equitable set-off is.
We cannot believe Congress intended such a result, or to destroy by implication any right vested at the time of the suspension of a national bank.
The state of case where the claim sought to be offs6t is
acquired after the act of insolvency is far otherwise, for th
rights of the parties become fixed as of that time, and to fustain such a transfer would defeat the object of these provisions.
The transaction must necessarily be held to have been entered
into with the intention to produce its natural result, the preventing of the application of the insolvent's assets in the manner prescribed. IFenango NTational Bank v. Taylor, 56 Penn.
St. 14;. Colt v. Brown, 12 Gray, 233.

OCTOBER TERAM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

Our conclusion is that this set-off should have been allowed,
anc1 this has heretofore been so held in well-considered cases.
Snyders' Sons Co. v. A-mwstronq, 37 Fed. Rep. i8; Yardley v.
Clotier,49 Fed. Rep. 337; Armstrong v. lMarner, 21 Weekly
Law Bull. 136; 27 Weekly Law Bull. 100.
The Ohio Code of Civil Procedure abolishes the distinction
between actions at law and suits in equity, requires all actions
(with some exceptions) to be brought in the name of the 'real
party in interest, and permits all defences, counter-claims and
set-offs, whether formerly known as legal or equitable, to be
set up therein. Rev. Stats. Ohio, § 4971, 4993, 5071.
Section 914 of the Revised Statutes in providing that the
practice, pleadings and forms and modes of proceeding, in civil
causes, in the Circuit and District Courts, shall conform, as
near as may be, to the practice, pleadings and forms and
modes of proceeding existing at the time in like causes in the
courts of record of the State within which such Circuit or District Courts are held, in terms excludes equity causes therefrom, and the jurisprudence of the United States has always
recognized the distinction between law and equity as under
the Constitution matter of substance, as well as of form and
procedure, and, accordingly, legal and equitable claims cannot
be blended together in one suit in the Circuit Courts of the
United States, nor are equitable defences permitted. Bennett
v. Butterworth, 11 How. 669; Thompson, v. Railroad Com.panies, 6 Wall. 134; Scott v. Neely, 140 U. S. 106; 3lontejo
v. Owen, 14 Blatchford, 324; Ia X3rothe Xfanufacturing Co. v.
2Vational Tube IVores Co., 15 Blatchford, 432.
We are of opinion that the Circuit Court had no power to
grant the set-off in question in the suit at law. Judgment,
however, was given in that case on the merits upon sustaining
the deniurrer to the defence of equitable set-off, and as we
think that the set-off should have been allowed, we do not feel
called upon, having the judgment before us and under our control for affirmance, reversal or modification, to sustain it upon
a jurisdictional ground not passed upon by the Circuit Court.
We shall, therefore, reverse it without discussing the question whether if affirmed, it would or would not be a bar to

MITCHELL v. ERIE RAILROAD COMPANY.

513

Statement of the Case.

relief in the suit in equity. Butler v. Eaton, 141 U. S. 240;
Ballard v. Searls, 130 U. S. 50.
It follows from what we have said that the first question
certified from the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Sixth Circuit must be answered in the affirmative and
the second in the negative, and that the bther questions propounded require no reply.
Judgment in No. 53 reversed and caue remanded to the Circuit Court with directionsfor further yroceedings in conformity with this opinion.
In ,-No. 1025, the answers to the ftrst and second questions
above indicatedwill be certited.

MITCHELL v. NEW YORK, LAKE ERIE AND
WESTERN RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 71.

Argued December 6, 1892. -Decided

December 12, 1892.

A direction of the Circuit Court to the jury'to find for the defendant in an
action against a common carrier for causing the death of a passenger, on
the ground that the evidence did not establish negligence on the part of
the carrier, and did show contributory negligence on the part of the
passenger, is approved.

Tins action was brought under an act of the legislature of
the State of New Jersey, to recover damages for the death of
the plaintiff's intestate, caused by the neglect of the defendant. The facts claimed to be established were substantially
these. On the 15th of November, 1887, at about half-past
nine in the evening, the plaintiff's intestate, a lad about sixteen years old, his brother Henry, a young man named Robert
Henry, and a number of other lads, got on a coal train of the
defendant at the Bergen end of the tunnel which runs from
VOL. cxLvi-33

