OCTOBER TERf, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

McMlULLEN v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 55. Submitted November 22, 1892.-Decided December 5, 1392.

For the purpose of determining the amount of compensation to be paid to
a marshal of the United States for attending Circuit and District Courts,
under Rev. Stat. ยง 829, Held that the court is " in sessfon" only when
it is open by its order, for the transaction of business, and, that if it
be closed by its own order for an entire day, or for any given number of
days, it is not then in session, although the current term may not have
expired.
The allowance of a marshal's account by the court does not preclude a revision of it by the proper officers in the treasury, nor justify its payment
when it appears that such allowance was unauthorized by law.

THE appellant was United States marshal for the District of
Delaware from February 1, 1880 to July 24, 1885. The terms
of the District Court for that district began on the second
Tuesdays in January, April, June and September in each year,
and continued until the Friday or the day preceding that for
opening th6 next succeeding term. The terms of the Circuit
Court began on the third Tuesdays in June and October in
each year, and continued until the Tuesday or the day preceding that for opening the next succeeding term.
It is found by the Court of Claims (Finding II) that the appellant as marshal "attended the Circuit and District Courts
when in session, during the terms of said courts, nine hundred
and five days;" that those days were charged by him in his
account at $5 per day; that the account, being verified, was
approved by the court as just and in accordance with law, but
its payment was refused at the Treasury Department; and
that appellant's whole compensation, if the above charges
were added, would not have exceeded in any one year the
maximum of $6000.
Finding VII was in these words: "Claimant has been paid in
full at the rate of $5 per day for every day whilst the Circuit
and District Courts of the United States in the Stateof Delaware

McMULLEN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

were sitting or in session from and including October term,
1879, to and including June term, 1885. The 905 days referred to in finding H were days occurring between sessions
of the courts."
.r.

Charles C. Lancaster for appellant.

.Afr. Assistant Attorney General Cotton for appellee.
MR. JUsTIncE HARLAx, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
We are somewhat embarrassed by the obscurity of the findings of fact. The second one states that appellant attended
the Circuit and District Courts, "when in session," during the
terms of those courts, nine hundred and five days, while the
seventh states that those were days occurring "between
sessions of the courts." But we assume that the question
intended to be presented, and which was determined below,
involved the right of a marshal to compensation at the rate
of $5 per day, for each day of a term, whether the court was
or was not actually in session or sitting on each day so
charged. We understand the words "between sessions of the
courts" to imply that there were intervening days, between
those sessions, when the court, by its own action, was not
open, or did not sit, for the transaction of businesg.
This question depends upon the construction to be given to
that clause of section 829 of the Revised Statutes, fixing the
compensation to be taxed and allowed to a marshal for different kinds of service, which provides that he shall be allowed
"for attending the Circuit and District Courts, when both are
in session, or either of them when only one is in session, and
for bringing in and committing prisoners and witnesses during
the term, five dollars a day." When the court is open, by its
order, for the transaction of business, it is in session within
the meaning of this section. If the court by its own order,
is closed for all purposes of business for an entire day, or for
any given number of days, it is not in session on that day, or

OCTOBER TERII, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

during those days, although the current term has not expired.
It is made' by statute the duty of the niarshal of each District "to attend the District and Circuit Courts when sitting
therein." R~ev. Stat. ยง 787. Within its meaning the court
cannot be said to be sitting on any day when it is closed, by
its own order, during the whole of that day for purposes of
business.
In support of his position appellant relies upon the decision
in United States v. Jones, 134 U. S. 483, 488, where'it was held
that the approval of a commissioner's account by a Circuit
Court of the United States, under the act of February 22,
1875, 18 Stat. 333, c. 95, regulating fees and costs, was primdi
facie evidence of the correctness of its items, and "in the
absence of clear and unequivocal proof of mistake on the
part of the court it should be conclusive." That case is not
decisive of the present one, because it appears that the Circuit
Court, in approving appellant's account, allowed him, by mistake, for attending court upon days when the court was not
in session. Besides, the above act, relating to the accounts of
various officers, including marshals, payable out of the money
of the United States, provides that nothing contained in it
shall be deemed in anywise to diminish or affect the right of
revision of the accounts to which it applies b the accounting
officers of the Treasury as exercised under the previous laws
in force. So that the allowance of the appellant's account by
the court did not preclude all revision of it by the proper
officers, nor justify its payment where it appeared, as it does
in this case, that such allowance was unauthorized by law.
It results that the claim of the appellafnt to be compensated
at the rate of $5 per day, for each day "between sessions of
the court," was properly disallowed. 24 Ct. C1. 394.
Judgment affrmed.

