MITCHELL v. ERIE RAILROAD COMPANY.

513

Statement of the Case.

relief in the suit in equity. Butler v. Eaton, 141 U. S. 240;
Ballard v. Searls, 130 U. S. 50.
It follows from what we have said that the first question
certified from the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Sixth Circuit must be answered in the affirmative and
the second in the negative, and that the bther questions propounded require no reply.
Judgment in No. 53 reversed and caue remanded to the Circuit Court with directionsfor further yroceedings in conformity with this opinion.
In ,-No. 1025, the answers to the ftrst and second questions
above indicatedwill be certited.

MITCHELL v. NEW YORK, LAKE ERIE AND
WESTERN RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 71.

Argued December 6, 1892. -Decided

December 12, 1892.

A direction of the Circuit Court to the jury'to find for the defendant in an
action against a common carrier for causing the death of a passenger, on
the ground that the evidence did not establish negligence on the part of
the carrier, and did show contributory negligence on the part of the
passenger, is approved.

Tins action was brought under an act of the legislature of
the State of New Jersey, to recover damages for the death of
the plaintiff's intestate, caused by the neglect of the defendant. The facts claimed to be established were substantially
these. On the 15th of November, 1887, at about half-past
nine in the evening, the plaintiff's intestate, a lad about sixteen years old, his brother Henry, a young man named Robert
Henry, and a number of other lads, got on a coal train of the
defendant at the Bergen end of the tunnel which runs from
VOL. cxLvi-33

OCTOBER TERIM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

that place to Hoboken, in order to go through this tunnel on
coal trains of the defendant. The train was sixty or seventy
cars in length. The lads were on separate cars sitting on the
coal. Lawrence Mitchell, the plaintiff's intestate, was sitting
on the end on top of the car, his feet hanging over down between the cars. As the train approached First Street there
was a sudden jerk which threw the lads on the cars into
various positions, Lawrence falling down between two cars.
He was found lying alongside the track with one leg off, and
two days after died from the effects of his injuries.
When the evidence was in, the court said: "I will direct
a verdict for the defendant on the ground that there is not
sufficient evidence to justify a recovery upon the case as it
stands. There is not sufficient evidence of negligence on the
part of the defendant, and the evidence proves concurring
negligence on the part of the deceased."
Exceptions were taken to this instruction and this writ of
error was sued out to review it.
.r. Hermom I. Shook for plaintiff in error.
.Mr. CMarles Steele and -lr. Iilliawm D. Guthrie for defendant in error; but the court eeclined to hear them.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE: A verdict for the defendants was
directed in this case, on the ground that there was not sufficient evidence to justify a recovery. We concur in that view,
and therefore affirm the judgment.
Judgment affirmed.

