BALLOCH v. HOOPER.
Opinion of the Court.

BALLOCH v. HOOPER.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 21. Argued November 7, 8, 1892. -Decided

December 5,1892.

On the facts in this case detailed in the opinion it is Held,
(1) That the deed from Balloch to Hooper of February 25, 1880, was
given to better secure Balloch's indebtedness to the Life Insurance
Company "
(2) That that company believed in good faith that Hooper was authorized, as holder of the legal title of record, to raise money on the
property, and secure its payment by deed of trust;
(3) That there was nothing in the relations between Hooper and Balloch which would prevent the company loaning money to Hooper
on the security of the property;
(4) That there was no evidence of a fraudulent combination to injure
Balloch;
(5) That there was no ground for questioning the accuracy of the
accounting.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

.M'. S. S. Hfenkle for appellant.
M'r. Job Barnard (with whom was Y'. James S. Edwards
on the brief) for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the Court.

The appellant, Balloch, became the owner, by purchase in
1878, from J. Bradley Adams, of certain lots on Sixteenth and
S streets, in the city of Washington, giving his notes for the
purchase money, and securing their payment by a deed of
trust covering the whole property. He placed -upon record a
subdivision of part of the property, making fourteen lots on
the west side of Sixteenth street, seven lots (with a small
strip) on the south side of Swan street, and six lots on the
north side of S street.
In order to obtain money for the construction of houses

OCTOBER TERMAl, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

upon some of those lots, fourteen on Sixteenth street and six
on S street, he borrowed from the M assachusetts Mutual Life
Insurance Company the sum of $16,000, executing therefor
his eight promissory -totes of $2000 each, hearing interest at
eight per cent until paid. Subsequently, he borrowed other
sums from the 'ompany, namely, $10,200, for which he made
his six promissory notes of $1700 each, bearing like interest,
and $9000, for which he gave his four notes, bearing like
interest, three for $2000 each and one for $3000; and to
secure those respective loans Balloch executed a deed of trust
upon particular lots in the above subdivision. These deeds of
trust were severally executed June 4, 1879, October 11, 1879,
and February .17, 1880. William R.Hlooper was the general
agent of the company in the city of Washington for the purpose of "placing" life insurance and collecting premiums, and
Balloch's negotiations with it were through him. He was
named in each of the deeds as trustee.
It was agreed .that one-half of the sum loaned should be
paid to Balloch at the time the notes and deed of trust were
delivered; that the company.should pay off the amount due on
the purchase from Adams, which was secured by prior recorded
deed of trust; and that the balance should be paid to Balloch
as he might need it in the work of constructing the houses on
the lots.
In connection with these loans Balloch purchased from the
company other houses, under an agreement that the cash payments thereon might be retained by the company out of the
loans, and that he would give for the balance of the price his
promissory notes, payable to the company's order, and secured
by deeds of trust to Hooper as trustee. It should also be
'stated that when* the above loans were made Balloch was
indebted to the .company on' other loans, secured by deeds of
trust on property on the corner of Q and Thirteenth streets.
By deed absolute in form, dated February 25, 1880, and
recorded February 27, 1880, Balloch conveyed to Hooper all
the property purchased from Adams, except two lots on Sixteenth street, and all the property purchased by him from the
company at the time the above three loans were effected, the

BALLOCH u HOOPER.
Okinion' of the Court.

consideration recited in the deed being "the sum of five thousand dollars previously advanced, and one dollar in lawful
money of the United States." It is stated by the company
that at the time this deed was executed the houses proposed to
be erected by Balloch "on Sixteenth and S streets were in an
incomplete condition; that the taxes due when he purchaied
from Adams, as well as the taxes on the property purchased
by him from the conpany, were unpaid; that more than $5000
was still due Adams; that the principal. of the notes given to
the company was unpaid; and that the property included in
the deed to Hooper was burdened with mechanics"liens, and
otherwise.
lHooper took possession of the property so conveyed to him,
and undertook the completion of the houses on Sixteexith and
S streets. But, with the means at his command, he found it
impossible to proceed without obtaining financial assistance.
Accordingly, in October, 1881, he informed the .company of
Balloch's deed to him of February 25, 1880,'and of the exact
condition of affairs with respect to the property. But it appears that the company was not, in fact, notified until October,
1881, of the transfer by deed from Balloch to Hooper. It
made an arrangement with looper to advance to him a sum
sufficient to complete the proposed improvements on the property, to pay off all 'incumbrances, including Balloch's notes
and, indebtedness to it, and to discharge the liens held by it;
tooper to give his note for the amount so to be advanced, and
to secure its payment by a deed of trust upon the property.
This arrangement was carried out. looper gave his note to
the company for $71,0d0, secured by a deed of trust running
to Frank HT. Smith; as truste6, and the, company cancelled
Balloch's notes, discharged his indebtedness to it, and released
the liens created by the above deeds of trust executed in its
favor. Under the above arrangement, the houses were to be
completed, rented and sold, under the direction of Smith, who
was to receive and disburse the sums which the company
might advance to Hooper.
The present suit against looper and the company -was
brought by Ballooh on -the 7th of December, 1882. The theory

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

of the bill is that the, company did not pay to Balloch, at the
times agreed upon, the one-half of the several loans of $16,000,
$10,200 and $9000, not the claim of Adams, nor the remainder
of the loans, but fraudulently withheld the money or a great
portion of it, whereby Balloch was seriously injured and embarrassed, rendering it impossible for him to complete the improvements of his lots. The bill charges that the defendants
paid upon the loans only $14,725.15; that when the deed of
February 25, 1880, was made, the defendants had in their possession of his money $20,474.85, which they refused to pay him;
that defendants, knowing well the plaintiff's embarrassment,
on account of their failure to pay the amount due him, proposed to him that if he would convey to Iooper the property
covered by the deed to the latter, the company would finish
all the houses out of the funds remaining in their hands belonging to the plaintiff, sell them for the highest and best
price attainable, and, after reimbursing themselves, divide the
remainder, upon the basis of three-fourths to the plaintiff and
one-fourth to the company; that the plaintiff's embarrassed
condition, the result of corrupt and fraudulent conduct of
the defendants, compelled him to accept this proposition, and
that accordingly he made to Hlooper the absolute deed of 188o.
The bill also charges that the defendants did not proceed inmediately to complete the houses according to their agreement,
but allowed them to stand for two years; that most, if not all,
the houses had been sold, but the defendants had failed and
refused to give any account thereof; and that, upon a proper
accounting, there was due to the plaintiff as much as $40,000.
-The relief asked was an injunction restraining the defendants
from selling the property or from collecting rents therefrom;
that a receiver be appointed to take possession of the unsold
property and to collect rents; that the defendants be required
to account as trustees; and that tlhe plaintiff have a decree for
the amount found to be due him. The defendants severally
answered, putting in issue all the material allegations of the
bill. The cause was referred to the auditor to take and report
an account of all the transactions. . A report was made, covering evefy possible view of the case. Among the schedules

BALLOCH v. HOOPER.
Opinion of the Court.

submitted by the auditor was one stating the account of
!looper with the company. In this account Hooper was
charged with the amount of the notes of Balloch secured by
the several deeds of trust on the property which the latter
gave, (excluding a note for $1800 secured on a lot named,)
with other disbursements for the completion of the houses, for
payment of taxes, insurance, costs of repairs, discharge of
liens and other expenses, with interest on those respective
amounts, and he was credited by the amounts received on sales
of property, rents, etc., with interest thereon; showing, on
that basis, a balance in favor of the company of $52,097.37,
as of September 1, 1886.
The exceptions were overruled and a decree was passed declaring the above sum to be a first and prior lien and encumbrance in favor of the company, as against the claims of all
the other parties to the cause, on certain lots and the improvements thereon, being the unsold property mentioned in the
deed from Hooper to Smith, subject to future accounting as to
interest accruing to the company on account thereof, and as
to the receipts and disbursements on the property subsequent
to September 1, 1886, and to a credit thereon of $2029.82 paid
by the company to Smith for services rendered in disbursing
moneys expended in the construction of buildings. The decree,
also, allowed to Hooper $1550.43 found by the auditor to be
due to him from Balloch, and made it a second and subordi
nate lien and encumbrance upon the property, and declared
the deed of February 25, 1880, as between Balloch and Hooper,
to be null and void.
Upon appeal by Balloch to the general term this decree was
affirmed.
The" court below correctly held that, so far as Hooper was
concerned, the absolutedeed from Balloch of February 25,
1880, must be held to have been taken for the purpose of better
securing the indebtedness of the latter to the company. This
is placed beyond doubt by the statement in Hooper's answer to
the effect that, shortly after the execution of the deed .of trust
for the loan of $9000, "to wit, February 25, 1880, the complainant [Balloch] of his own volition voluntarily transferred and con-

OOTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

veyed to this defendant all the said property before included
in the said several deeds of trust, together with certain other
lots described in the conveyance then made, which property
was taken by this defendant for the purpose of better securing
the said company in the ultimate realization and collection of
the moneys sb as aforesaid loaned to the complainant." This
admission is conclusive as between Hooper and Balloch, and
is not at all weakened by the somewhat contradictory statements subsequently made by the former in his deposition in
the cause.
But, as we have seen, the company bad no knowledge of
this absolute deed to Hooper until October, 1881, whea it was
informed by him of the condition of the property upon which
the three loans of $16,000, $10,200 and $9000 had been made.
By the act of Balloch in making- and putting that deed upon
record, Hooper was enabled to represent himself as the owner
of the property; and to make arran gements with the company
for money with which to complete its improvement. According to the weight of the evidence, the company, ih good faith,
beliefed, and was not negligent in believing, that Hooper was
authorized, as the holder of the legal title of record, to raise
money upon the property and secure its payment by deed of
tyust. Ballocb, therefore, has no right to, complain of the
arrangement made by Hooper with the company. Indeed,
that arrangement was for the interest of Balloch, provided
the moneys advanced by the company to.Hooper were fairly
used fo liquidate the existing ifidebtedness of Balloch and to
complete the constructioth of the houses according to his
original plan.
Balloch insists that the relations that subsisted between
Hooper and Balloch forbade the former from taking title to
the property. If that were true, as between them, it would
not follow that the company, acting in gbod faith, might not
loan money to Hooper, and take a lien upbn the property to
secure its repayment. As, upon the evidence, the company is
not chargeable with bad faith in making thearrangement it
did with Hooper, all that Balloch could equitably demand was
that which was awarded to him in the court below, namely,

BALLOCH v. HOOPER.
Opinion of the Court.

an accounting with reference to the moneys, advanced and
expended under the arrangement it made with Hooper, and a
recognition of his right to redeem upon paying the balance
found to be due, upon such accounting, to the company. It is
a mistake to suppose that in so holding we disregard the rule
that "whenever the trustee has been guilty of a breach of the
trust, and has transferred the property, by sale or otherwise,
to any third person, the cestui que trust, has a full right to
follow such property into the hands of such third person, u-nless he stands in the predicament of a' bonafide purchaser, for
a valuable consideration, without notice." Oliver v. Piatt,3.
How. 333, 401. When Balloch put the absolute title in Hooper
he knew that the contemplated improvements could not be
made without borrowing more money on the property, and he
must have expected that Hooper would obtain, in that way,
the required funds. And there is not the slightest ground in
the evidence for the charge that the company and Hooper
fraudulently combined for the purpose of injuring Balloch.
The company had no reason to suppose that the airangement
made with Hooper was in violation of any agreement or understanding that Balloch had with him at the time of the conveyance of February 25, 1880. The company, upon every
-principle of equity, is entitled to a lien upon such of the property embraced in the deed of trust to Smith, as remained unsold, to secure the payment of the balance due for the sums
advanced by it. After a careful scrutiny of the evidence we
find no ground for questioning the accuracy of the accounting
below, or of the balance adjudged to be due the company.
The contention'that more was expended upon improvements
than ought, in fairness to have been expended, is not sustained
by such proof as would justify a reversal of the decree, in
whatever light the case is viewed. While there is some slight
justification for this contention, we are of opinion that the
conclusion reached by the auditor is sustained by the preponderance of evidence. It is certain that the company advanced
the moneys which are charged, in the accounting, against the
property. And it is equally certain that these moneys were,
in fact, expended, upon the property, or for the benefit of
VOL. cxvi-2

.

OCTOBER TER,, 1892.
Syllabus.

JBallocb. Even if it 'were assumed that the company was
bound to see that the moneys advanced under its agreement
with Hooper were properly and reasonably expended, the evidence does not show that an excessive amount has been charged
in its favor or in favor of Hooper against the property in question..
We perceive no error'in the decree, and it is
Aff?'med.

LEWIS v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 1018. Argued October 28, 1892. -Decided

December 5, 1892.

In trials for felonies, it is not in the power of the prisoner, either by himself
or his counsel, to waive the right to be personally present during the trial.
The making of challenges is an essential part of the trial of a person accused of crime, and it is one of his substantial tights to be brought face
to face with the jurors when the challenges are made.
Though no specific exception was taken in this case by the prisoner, based
upon the fact that he was called upon to challenge jurors not before him,
a general exception, taken to the action of the court in prescribing the
method of procedure, was sufficient.
Where no due exception to the language of the court in instructing the jury
is taken at the trial, this court cannot consider whether the trial court
went beyond the verge of propriety in its instructions.
On the trial of the case, after the accused had pleaded not guilty to the indictment, the court directed two lists of thirty-seven qualified jurymen
to be made out by the clerk, one to be given to the district attorney and
one to the counsel for the defendant, and further directed each side to
proceed with its challenges, independently of the other, and without
knowledge on the part of -either as to what challenges had been made
by the other. To this method of proceeding, the defendant at the time
excepted, but was reiuifed to proceed to make his challenges.
lo
challenged twenty persons from the list of thirty-seven persons from
which he made his challenges, but in doing so he challenged three jurors
who were also challengei d'by the government. The .government challenged from the list of thirty-seven persons five persons, three of whom
w ere the same persons challenged by the defendant. This fact was made
to appear fr.hln the lists of jurors used by the government in making its

