HUNTINGTON v. ATTRILL.
Syllabus.

wharf is within that area and the consequent effect, the record
does not call upon us to consider.
It may properly be added that the decision of the Supreme
Court indicates that in its opinion relator was not entitled to
the writ of prohibition, because he had other remedies of
which he might have availed himself. This was a ground
broad enough to sustain the judgment irrespective df the decision of any Federal question, if such arose; but we have
considered the case in the other aspect, as the ruling of the
Supreme Court in this regard is perhaps not sufficiently definite for us justly to decline jurisdiction upon that ground.
Our conclusion is that no Federal question was so raised
upon this record as to justify our interposition, and therefore
the writ of error is
-Dismiseed.

HUNTINGTON v. ATTRILL.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS dF THE STATE OF MARYLA.ND.
No. 33.

Argued April 26, 1892. -Decided

December 12,1892.

A bill in equity in one State to set aside a conveyance of property mide in
fraud of creditors, and to charge it with' the payment of a judgment
since recovered by the plaintiff" against the debtor in another State upon
his liability as ali officer in a corporation under a statute of that State, set
forth the judgment and the cause of action on which it was recovered; and
also asserted, independently of the judgment, an original liability of the
defendant as a stockholqer and officer in that corporation before the conveyance. The higiest court of the State declined to entertain the bill
by virtue of the judgment, because it had been recovered in another
State in an action for a penalty; or to maintain the bill on the original
liability, for various reasons. Held, that the question whether due faith
and credit were thereby denied to the judgment was a Federal question,
of which this court had jurisdiction on writ of error.
The question whether a statute 6f one State, which in some aspects may be
called penal, is a penal 14w in the international sense, so that it cannot be
enforced in the courts of another State, depends upon the question whether
its purpose is to punish an offence against the public justice of the State,
or to afford a private remedy to a person injured by the wrongful act.
A statute making the officers of a corporation, who sign and record a false
VOL. CXLVI-42

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Citations for Plaintiff in Error.
cerfificate of the amount of its capital stock, liable for all its debts, is
not a penal law in the international sense.
Whether a statute of one State is a penal law which cannot be enforced in
another State is to be determined by the court which is called upon to
enforce it.
If the highest court of a State declines to give full faith and credit to a
judgment of another State, because in its opinion that judgment was for
a penalty, this court, in determining whether full faith and credit have
been given to that judgment, must decide for itself whether the original
cause of action was penal in the international sense.
If a judgment for a fixed sum of money, recovered in one State by a creditor of a corporation against one of its officers upon a liability for all its
debts, imposed by astatute of that State for making and recording a
false certifiqate of the amount of its capital stock, is sued on in a court
of another State, and that court declines to enforce the-judgment because of its opinion that the original liability was a penalty, the judgment is thereby denied the full faith, credit and effect to which it is
entitled under the Constitution and laws of the United States.

IN EQUITY. The bill was dismissed by the*Court of Appeals
of Maryland, to which- judgment this writ of 'error was sued
out.
.AX-.

.Hugh

L.

Bond, Jr.

and

M21r.

John K. Cowen for

plaintiff in error, (with whom was _211r. E. J D. Cross on the
brief,) qited: Christmaas v. Rtssell, 5 Wall. 290; Dennick
v. Rtailroad "Co.103 U. S.11 ; Wisconsin v. Pelican Ins. Ct,.,
127 U. S. 265; 2 Morawetz on Corporations, § 908 et 8eq. ;
Neal v.31foultrie, 12 Georgia, 104:; Livinyston v. Jeferson, 1
Brock. 2013 ; _J'cKennac v. Fisk, 1 How. 241; Allen v. Pittsbarg & Connellsville Railroad Co., 45 Maryland, 41 ; Plilli~s
v. Fyre, L. R. .6 Q. 3. 1; iTfitchiell v. 1Tarrmony, 13 How. 115 ;

.EeForest v. Tolman, 117 Mass. 109; Boyce v. lvabaslh Railway Co., 63 Iowa, 70; Erickson v. 2_esmith, 4 Allen, 233;
Andrews v. Oallender, 13 Pick. 484; Halsey v. JlcLean, 12
Allen, 438 ; S. C. 90 Am: D-ec. 157 ; Erickson v. AZresm iti, 46

N. H. 371; Flash v. Conn, 109 U. S. 371; Richardson v.
. . Central Railroad, 98 Mass. 85 ; Claftin v. .fouseman,
93 U. S. 130 ; Steam, .Engine Co. v. lubbard,101 U. S. 188;
Chase v. Curtis, 113 U. S. 452; Union iron Co. v. Pierce, 4
Bissell, 327; Railway Co. v. Wkitton, 13 Wall. 270; Prescott
v. Nevers, 4 Mason, 326; Parrott

v. Barney, 1 Sawyer, 423;

HIUNTINGTON v. ATTRILL.
Citations for Defendant in Error.

Reed v. "Northfeld, 13 Pick. 94; S. C. 23 Am. De. 761;
Palmer v. York Bank, 18 Maine, 166; S. C. 36 Am. Dec.
710; Steere v. Field, 2 Mason, 486; Servis v. .Marsh, 38 Fed.
Rep. 794; Stanley v. Wharton, 9 Price, 301; Read v. Chelmsford, 16 Pick. 128; Gray v. Bennett, 3 Met. (Mass.) 522;
.Mitchell v. Clapp, 12 Cush. 278; Daniels v. Hart, 118 Mass.
543; Godard v. Gray, L. R. 6 Q. B. 139; Rousillon v. RoUsillon, 14 Ch. D. 351; Tfhite v. _How, 3 McLean, 291; Falconer v..Campbell, 2 McLean, 195; -Tuntington v. Attrill, 8
Times Law Rep. 341 (P. 0. February 17, 1892).
Mr. William A. Fisher, (with whom was 21t. S. T. Wfallis
on the brief,) for defendant in error cited: Wisconsim v.
Pelican .ins. Co., 127 U. S. 265; Evans v. Sprigg, 2 Maryland, 457; First .Nat. Bank v. Price, 33 Maryland, 487;
Steam Engine Co. v. Zubbard, 101 U. S. 188; -Marrow v.
Brinkley, 129 U. S. 178; .MissouriPacific Railway v. flumes,
115 U. S. 512; Boynton v. Ball, 121 U. S. 457; Cole v. Cunningham, 133 U. S. 107; Flash v. Conn, 109 U. S. 371; .l-aryland v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad, 3 How. 534; United
States v. Lathrop, 17 Johns. 4; Scoville v. Canfeld, 14: Johns.
338; Breitung v. Lindauer, 37 Michigan, 217; Sturges v
Burton, 8 Ohio St. 215; S. C. 72 Am: Dec. 582; Shale7'
Quarry Co. v. Bliss, 34 Barb. 309; .Mitchell v. Hfotchkiss, 48
Connecticut; 9; Spies v. illinois, 123 U. S.131, 163; Chanute
City v. Trader, 132 U. S. 210; Adams County'v. Burlington
& -MissouriRailroad,112 U. S. 123 ;-.
Stae v. Youmans; 5
Indiana, 280; Exparte McNiel, 13 Wall. 236; Reynolds v.
Crawfordsville Bank, 112 U. S. 405; Denniek v. Railroad
Co., 103 U. S. 11; Smith v. Railroad Co., 9.9 U. S. 39&;
Green v. Neal, 6 Pet. 291 ; .leade v. Beale, Taney, 339 ;.Lorman v. Clarke, 2 McLean, 568; flolmes v. Railway Co., S
Fed. Rep. 75; Whitehead v. Entwhislh, 27 Fed. Rep. 778;
Buford y. Role-y, 28 Fed. Rep. 680;. Price v. Wilson, 67 Barb.
9; Bird v. HZayden, 2 Abbott's PFr. (N. S.) 61; Garrison v.
.Howe, 17 N. Y. 458; Wiles v. Suydam, -64: -N. Y. 173; Langdon v. New York &c. Pgailroal,58 Hun, 122; Chase v. Curti,
113 U. S.452; Sayles v. Brown, 40 Fed. Rep. 8.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

IMR. JusTice GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This was a bill in equity, filed 'March 21, 1888, in the
Circuit Court of Baltimore City, by Collis P. Huntington, a
resident of New York, against the Equitable Gas Light Company of Baltimore, a corporation of Maryland, and againsC
Henry Y. Attrill, his wife and three daughters, all residents
of Canada, to set aside a transfer of stock in that company,
made by him for their benefit and in fraud of his creditors,
and to charge that stock with the payment of a judgment

recovered by the plaintiff against him in the State of New
York, upon his liability as a director in a New York corpora-

tion, under the statute of New York of 1875, c. 611, the
material provisions of which are copied in the margin. 1
The bill alleged that on June 15, 1886, the plaintiff recovered, in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, in an
action brouglt by him against Attrill on March 21, 1883, a
1 SEc. 21. If any certificate or repdrt made, or public notice given, by
the officers of any such corporation, shall be false in any material reprosentatlon, all the officers who shall have signed the same shall be jointly

and severally liable for all the debts of the corporation contracted while
they are officers thereof.
83Ec. 37. In limited liability companies, all the stockholders shall be severally individually liable to the creditors of the company in which they are
stockholders, to an amount equal to the amount of stock held by them
respectively, for all debts and contracts made by such company, until the
whole amount of capital stock fixed and limited by such company has been
paid in, and a certificate thereof has been made and recorded as hereinafter
prescribed.

.

.

. The capital stock of every such limited liability com-

pany shall be paid in, one half thereof within one year and the other half
thereof within two years from the incorporation of said company, or such
corporation shall be dissolved. The directors of every such company,
wvithin thirty days after the payment of the last instalment of the capital
stock, shall make a certificate stating the amount of the capital so paid in,
which certificate shall be signed and sworn to by the president and a majority of the directors; and they shall, within the said thirty days, record
the same in the office of the secretary of state, and of the county in which
the principal business office of such corporation is situated.
SEc. 38. The dissolution for any cause whatever, of any corporation
created as aforesaid, shall not take away or impair any remedy given
against such corporation, its stockholders or officers, for any liabilities
incurred previous to its dissolution.

HUNTINGTON v. ATTRILL.
Opinion of the Court.

judgment for the sum of $100,240, which bad not been paid,
secured or satisfied; and that the cause of action on which
that judgment was recovered was as follows: On February
29, 1880, the Rockaway Beach Improvement Company, Limited, of which Attrill was an incorporator and a director,
became a corporation under the law of New York, with a
capital stock of $700,000. On June 15, 1880, the plaintiff
lent that company the sum of $100,000, to be repaid on
demand. On February 26, 1880, Attrill was elected one of
the directors of the company, and accepted the office, and continued to act as a director until after January 29, 1881. On
June 30, 1880, Attrill, as a director of the company, signed
and made oath to, and caused to be recorded, as required by
the law of New York, a certificate, which he knew to be
false, stating that the whole of the capital stock of the corporation had been paid in, whereas in truth no part had been
paid in; and by making such false certificate became liable,
by the law of New York, for all the debts of the company
contracted before January 29, 1881, including its debt to the
plaintiff. On March 8, 1882, by proceedings in a court of
New York, the corporation was declared to be insolvent and
to have been so since July, 1880, and was dissolved. A duly
exemplified copy of the record of that judgment was annexed
to and made part of the bill.
The bill also alleged that "at the time of its dissolution as
aforesaid, the said company was indebted to the plaintiff andto other creditors to an amount far in excess of its assets;
that by the law of the State of New York all tlfe stockholders
of the company were liable to pay all its debts, each to the
amount of the stock held by him, and the defendant, Henry
Y. Attrll, was liable at said date and on April 14, 1882, as
such stockholder, to the amount of $340,000, the amount of
stock held by him, and was on both said dates also severally
and directly liable as a director, having signed the false report
above mentioned, for all the debts of said comlppny contracted
between February 26, 1880, and January 29, 1881 which
debts aggregate more than the whole value of the property
owned by said Attrill."

OCTOBER TERAM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

The bill further alleged that Attrill was in March, 1882,
and had ever since remained, individually liable in a large
amount over and above the debts for which he was liable as
a stockholder and director in the company; and that he was
insolvent, and had secreted and concealed all his property for
the purpose of defrauding his creditors.
The bill then alleged that in April, 1882, Attrill acquired
a large amount of stock in the Equitable Gas Light Company
of Baltimore, and forthwith transferred into his own name
as trustee for his wife 1000 shares of such stock, and as trustee
for each of his three daughters 250 shares of the same, without valuable consideration, and with intent to delay, hinder
and defraud his creditors, and especially with the intent to
delay, hinder and defraud this plaintiff of his lawful suits,
damages, debts and demands against Attrill, arising out of the
cause of action on which the aforesaid judgment was recovered, and out of the plaintiff's claim against him as a stockholder; that the plaintiff in June, 1880, and ever since was
domiciled and resident in the State of New York, and that
from February, 1880, to December 6, 1884, Attrill was domiciled and resident in that State, and tat his transfers of stock
in the gas company were made in the city of New York where
the principal office of the company then was, and where all
its transfers of stock were made; and that those transfers
were, by the laws of New York, as well as by those of Maryland, fraudulent and void as against the creditors of Attrill,
including the creditors of the Rockaway Company, and wero
fraudulent and void as against the plaintiff.
The bill further, by distinct allegations, averred that those
transfers, unless set aside and annulled by at court of equity,
would deprive the plaintiff of all his rights and interests of
every sort therein, to which he was entitled as a creditor of
Attrill at the time when those fraudulent transfers were
made; and "that the said fraudulent transfers were wholly
without legal consideration, were fraudulent and void, and
should be set aside by a court of equity.'"
The bill prayed that the transfer of shares in the gas company bb declared fraudulent and void, and executed for the

HUNTINGTON v. ATTRILL.
Opinion of the Court.

purpose of defrauding the plaintiff out of his claim as ekisting
creditor; that the certificates of those shares in the name of
Attrill as trustee be ordered to be brought into court and cancelled; and that the shares "be decreed to be subject to the
claim of this plaintiff on the judgment aforesaid," and to be
sold by a trustee appointed by the court, and new certificates
issued by the gas company to the purchasers; and for further

relief.
One of the daughters demurred to the bill, because it
showed that the plaintiff's claim was for the recovery of a
penalty against Attrill arising under a statute of the State of
New York, and because it did not state a case which entitled
the plaintiff to any relief in a court of equity in the State of
Maryland.
By a stipulation of counsel, filed in the cause, it was agreed
that, for the purposes of the demurrer, the bill should be
treated as embodying the New York statute of June 21,
1875; and that the Rockaway Beach Improvement Company,
Limited, was incorporated under the provisions of that atatute.
The Circuit Court of Baltimore City overruled the demurrer.
On appeal to the Court of Appeals of the State of Maryland, the
order was reversed, and the bill dismissed. 70 Maryland, 191.
The ground most prominently brought forward and most
fully discussed in the opinion of the majority of the court,
delivered by Judge Bryan, was that the liabil.ity imposed by
section 21 of the statdite of New York upon officers of a corporation, making a false certificate of its condition, was for
all its debts, without inquiring whether a creditor had been
deceived and induced by deception to lend his 'nioney or to
give credit, or whether he bad incurred loss to any extent by
the inability of the corporation to pay, and without limiting
the recovery to the amount of loss sustained, and was -intended
as a punishment for doing any of the forbidden acts, and was,
therefore, in view of the decisions in that State and in Maryland, a penalty which could not be enforced in the State of
Maryland; and that the judgment obtained in New York-forthis penalty, while it "merged the original cause of action so
that a suit cannot be again maintained upon it," and "is also

OCTOBER TERAi, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

conclusive evidence of its existence in the form and under
the circumstances stated in the pleadings," yet did not change
the nature of the transaction, but, within the decision of this
court in Tisconsir v. Pelican Ins. Co., 127 U. S. 265, was in
its "essential nature and real foundation" the same as the
original cause of action, and therefore a suit could not be
maintained upon such a judgment beyond the limits of the
State in which it was rendered. pp. 193-198.
The court then took up the clause of the bill, above quoted,
in which it was sought to charge Attrill as originally liable
under the statute of New York, both as a stockholder and as
a director; and observing that "this liability is asserted to
exist independently of the judgment," summarily disposed of
it, upon the grounds that it could not attach to him as a stockholder, because he had not been sued, as required by the New
York statute, within two years after the plaintiff's debt became
due; nor as a director, because "the judgment against Attrill
for having made the false report certainly merges all right of
action against him on this account;" but that, if he was liable
at the times and on the grounds "mentioned in this clause of
the bill," this liability was barred by the statute of limitations
of Maryland. pp. 198, 199.
Having thus decided against the plaintiff's claim under his
judgment, upon the single ground that it was for a penalty
under the statute of New York, and therefore could not be
enforced in Maryland; and against any original liability
under-the statute, for various reasons; the opinion concluded:
"Upon the whole, it appears to us that the complainant has no
cause of action, which he can maintain in this State." p. 199.
Judge Stone, with whom Judge McSherry concurred, dissented from the opinion of the majdrity of the court, upon
the ground that it did not give due effect to the act of Congress, passed in pursuance of the Constitution of the United
States, and providing that the records of judgments rendered
by a court of any State shall have such faith and credit given
to them in every court within the United States as they have
by law or usage in the courts of the State whence they are
taken. Act of May 26, 1790, c. 11, 1 Stat. 122; Rlev. Stat.

HUNTINGTON v. ATTRLLj.
Opinion of the Court.

905. H6 began his opinion by saying: "I look upon the
principal point as a Federal question, and am governed-in my
views more by my understanding of the decisions of the
Supreme Court of the United States than by the decisions of
the state courts." And he concluded thus: "I think the
Supreme Court, in 127 U. S., meant to confine the operation
of the rule that no country will execute the penal laws of
another to such laws as are properly classed as criminal. It
is not very easy to give any brief definition of a criminal law.
It may perhaps be enough to say that, in general, all breaches
of duty that confer no rights upon an individual or person,
and which the State alone can take cognizance of, are in their
nature criminal, and that all such come within the rule. But
laws which, while imposing a duty, at the same time confer
a right upon the citizens to claim damages f5r its nonperformance, are not criminal. If all the laws of the latter description are held penal in the sense of criminal, that clause in the
Constitution which relates to records and judgments is of
comparatively little value. There is a large, and constantly
increasing, number of cases that may in one sense be termed
penal, but can in no sdnse be classed as criminal. Examples
of these may be found in suits for damages for negligence in
causing death, for double damages for the -injury to stock
where railroads have neglected the state laws for fencing in
their tracks, and the liability of officers of corporations for
the debts of the company by reason of their ndgiect of a
plain duty imposed by statute. I cannot think that judgments on such claims are .not within the protection given by
the Constitution of the United States. I therefore Jthink the
order in this case should be affirmed." pp. 2"00-205.
A writ of error was sued-out by the plaintiff, and allowed
by the Chief Justice of the Court of Appeals of Maryland,
upon the ground "that the said Court of Appeals is the highest court of law or equity in the State of Maryland, in which
a decision in the said suit could be had; that in said suit a
right and privilege are claimed under the Constitution and
statutes of the United States, and the decision is against the
right and privilege set up and claimed by your petitioner

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

under said Constitution and statutes; and that in said suit
there is drawn in question the validity of a statute of
and an authority exercised under the United States, and the
decision is against the validity of such statute and of such
authority."
It thus appears that the judgment recovered in New York
was made the foremost ground of the bill, was fully discussed
and distincti? passed upon by the majority of the Court of
Appeals of Maryland, and was the only subject of the dissenting opinion; and that the court, without considering whether
the validity of the transfers impeached as fraudulent was to
be governed by the law of New York, or by the law of Maryland; and without a suggestion that those transfers, alleged
to have been made by Attrill with intent to delay, hinder and
defraud all his creditors, were not voidable by subsequent, as
well as by existing creditors, or that they coald not be avoided
by the plaintiff, claiming under the judgment recovered by
him against Attrill after those transfers were made; declined
to maintain his right to do so by, virtue of that judgment,
simply because the judgment had, as the court held, been
recovered in another State in an action for a penalty.
The question whether due faith and credit were thereby
denied to the judgment rendered in another State is a Federal
qutstion, of which this court has jurisdiction on this writ of
error. Grren v. Van Busekirk, 5 Wall. 307, 311; Crapo v.
Kelly, 16 Wall. 610, 619; .Dpasseu v. ]-ochereau, 21 Wall.
130, 134; Crescent City Co. v. Butc]iers' Union, 120 U. S. 141,
146, 147; Cole v. Cinningicm, 133 U. S. 107; Capenker v.
Strange, 141 U. S. 87, 103.
In order to determine this question, it will be necessary, in
the AIrst place, to consider the true scope and meaning of the
fundamental maxim of international law, stated by Chief Justice Marshall in the fewest possible words: "The courts of no
country execute the penal laws of another." Te Antelope,
10 Wheat. 66, .23. In interpreting this maxim, there is
d-anger of being misled by the different shades of meaning
a lwed to the word "penal" in our language.
In the municipal law of England and America, the words

HUNTINGTON v. ATTRILL.
Opinion of the Court.

"penal"

and "penalty"

have been used in various senses.

Strictly and primarily, they denote punishment, whether corporal or pecuniary, imposed and enforced by the State, for a
crime or offence against its laws. United States v. Reisinger,
128 U. S. 398, 402; United States v. Ckouteau, 102 U. S. 603,
611. But they are also commonly used as including any
extraordinary liability to which the law subjects a wrongdoer
in favor of the person wronged, not limited to the damages
suffered. They are so elastic in meaning as even to be familiarly applied to cases of private contracts, wholly independent
of statutes, as when we speak of the "penal sum" or" penalty"
of a bond. In the words of Chief Justice Marshall: ".In general, a sum of money in gross, to be paid for the non-performance of an agreement, is considered as a penalty, the legal
operation of which is to cover the damages which the party,
in whose favor the stipulation is made, may have sustained
from the breach of contract by the opposite party." Tayloe
v. Sandiford, 7 Wheat. 13, 17.
Penal laws, strictly and properly, are those imposing punishment for an offence committed against the State, and which, by
the English and American constitutions, the executive of the
State has the power to pardon. Statutes giving a private.
action against the wrongdoer are sometimes spoken of as
penal in their nature, but in such cases it has been pointed out
that neither the liability imposed nor the remedy given is
strictly penal.
The action of an owner of property against the hundred to
recover damages caused by a mob was said by Justices Willes
and Buller to be "penal against the hundred, but certainly
remedial as to the sufferer." Hyde v. Cogan, 2 Doug. 699,
705, 706. A statute giving the right to recover back money
lost at gaming, and, if the loser does not sue within a certain
time, authorizing a qui tam action to be brought by any other
person for threefold the amount, has been held to be remedial
as to the loser, though penal as regards the suit by a common
informer Bones v. Booth, 2 W. Bl. 1226; Brandon v. Patej 2
H. Bl. 308; Grace v. .M'Elroy, 1 Allen, 563; Read v. Stewart,
129 Mass. 407, 410; Cole v. Groves, 134 Mass. 471. As said

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

by Mr. Justice Ashhurst in the King's Bench, and repeated by
Mr. Justice Wilde in the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, "it has been held, in many instances, that where a
statute gives accumulative damages to the party grieved, it is
not a penal action." Mlloodgate v. lrnatchbull, 2 T. R. 148,
154; Read v. Chelmsford, 16 Pick. 128, 132. Thus a statute
giving to a tenant, ousted without notice, double the yearly
value of the premises against the landlord, has been held to
be "not like a penal law where a punishment is imposed for a
crime," but ".rather as a remedial than a penal law," because
"the act indeed does give a penalty, but it is to the party
grieved." Lake v. Smith, 1 Bos. & Pul. (N. R.) 174,, 179, 180,
181; WVilkinsonr v. Colley, 5 B]urrow, 2694, 2698. So in an
action given by statute to a traveller injured through a defect
in a highway, for double damages against the town, it was
held unnecessary to aver that the facts constituted an offence,
or to conclude against the form of the statute, because, as
Chief Justice Shaw said: "The action is purely remedial, and
has none of the characteristics of a penal prosecution. All
damages for neglect or breach of duty operate to a certain
extent as punishment; but the distinction is that it is prosecuted for the purpose of punishment, and to deter others from
offending in like manner. Here the plaintiff sets out the
liability of the town to repair, and an injury to himselt from
a failure to perform that duty. The law gives him enhanced
damages; but still they are recoverable to his own use, and
in form and substance the suit calls for indemnity." Reed v.
_3rortAfield, 13 Pick. 94, 100, 101.
The -test whether a law is penal, in the strict and primary
sense, is whether the wrong sought to be redressed is a wrong
to the public, or a wrong to the individual, according to the
familiar classification of Blackstone: "Wrongs are divisible
into two sorts or species: private wrongs and yublic wrongs.
The former are an infringement or privation of the private or
civil rights belonging to individuals, considered as individuals;
and are thereupon frequently termed civil injuries : the latter
are a breach and violation of public rights and duties, which
affect the whole community, considered as a community; and

HUNTINGTON v. ATTR ILL.
Opinion of the Court.

are distinguished by the harsher appellation of crimes and
misdemeanors." 3 B1. Com. 2.
Laws have no force of themselves beyond the jurisdiction
of the State which enacts them, and can have extra-territorial
effect only by the comity of other States. The general rules
of international comity upon this subject were well summed
up, before the American Revolution, by Chief Justice De Grey,
as reported by Sir William Blhckstone: "Crimes are in their
nature local, and the jurisdiction of crimes is local. And so
as to the rights of real property, the subject being fixed and
immovable. But personal injuries are of a transitory nature,
and sequunturforum rei." Rafael v. Verelst, 2 W. 31. 1055,
1058.
Crimes and offences against the laws of any State can only
be defined, prosecuted and pardoned by the sovereign authority of that State; and the authorities, legislative, executive or
judicial, of other States take no action with regard to theni,
except by way of extradition to surrender offenders to the
State whose laws they have violated, and whose peace they
have broken.
Proceedings in rem to determine the title to land must
necessarily be brought in the State within whose borders the
land is situated, and whose courts and officers alone',can put
the party in possession. Whether actions to recover pecuniary
damages for trespasses to real estate, " of which the causes," as
observed by Mr. Westlake (Private International Law, 3d ed.
p. 213), "could not have occurred elsewhere than where they
did occur," are purely local, or may be brought abroad,
depends upo-h the question whether they are viewed as relating to the real estate, or only as affording a personal remedy.
By the common law of England, adopted in most of the
States of the Union, such actions are regarded as local, and
can be brought only where the land is situated. Doulson v.
-Matthews,4 T. R. 503; _MeKenna v. Fisk, 1 How: 241, 248.
But in some States and countries they are regarded as transitory, like other personal actions; and whether an action for
trespass to land in one State can be brought in another State
depends on the view which the_-attr State takes of the

670

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

nature of the action. For instance, Ohief Justice Marshall
held that an action could not be maintained in Virginia, by
whose law it was local, for a trespass to land in NKew Orleans.
Livingston v. J ferson, 1 Brock. 203. On the other hand,
an action for a trespass to land in Illinois, where the rule of
the common law prevailed, was maintained in Louisiana, Chief
Justice Eustis saying: "The present action is, under our laws,
a personal action, and is not distinguished from any ordinary
civil action as to the place or tribunal in which it may be
brought." Holmes v. Barclay, 4 La. Ann. 63. And in a very
recent English case, in. which the judges differed in opinion
upon the question whether, since local venue has been abolished in England, an action can be maintained there for a
trespass to land in a foreign country, all agreed that this question depended on the law of England. Comyanhia de .Jfocambique v. British South .Africa Co. (1892) 2 Q. 3. 358. See also
Oragin v. Zovell, 88 N. Y. 258; A1lii
v. Connecticut River
-Lumber Co., 150 Mass. 560.
In order to maintain an action for an injury to the person
or to movable property, some courts have held that the wrong
must be one which would be actionable by the law of the
place where the redress is sought, as well as by the law of
the place where the wrong was done. See, for example, The
Hall.ey, L. R. 2 P. C. 193, 204; Phillips v. yre, L. R. 6 Q. 3.
1, 28, 29; The_...3loxham, 1lP.D. 107, 111; lFoodenv. Welstern.
-New York & Pennsylvania Railroad,126 N. Y. 10; Ash v.
Baltimore c Ohio Railroad,72 Maryland, 1447. But such is not
the law of this court. By our law, a private action may be
maintained in one State, if not contraryto its own policy, for
such a wrong done in another and actionable there, although
a like wrong would not be actionable in the State where the
suit is brought. Smith v. Con dry, 1 How. 28; The China, 7
.Wall. 53, 64; The Scotland, 105 U. S. 24, 29; D)ennick v.
Railroad Co., 103 U. S. 11; Texas & Paci§cRailway v. 61ex,
145 U. S. 593.
. Upon the question what are to be considered penal laws of,
6ne country, within the international rule which forbids such
laws to be enforced in any other country, so much reliance

HUNTINGTON v. ATTRILL.
Opinion of the Court.

was placed by each party in argument upon the opinion of
this court in Wisconsim v. Pelican As. Co., 127 U. S. 265,
that it will be convenient to quote from that opinion the
principal propositions there affirmed:
"The rule that the courts of no country execute the penal
laws of another applies not only to prosecutions and sentences
for crimes and misdemeanors, but to all suits in favor of the
State for the recovery of pecuniary penalties for any violation
of statutes for the protection of its revenue, or other municipal laws, and to all judgments for such penalties." p. 290.
"The application of the rule to the courts of the several
States and of the United States is not affected by the provisions of the Constitution and of the act of Congress, by
which the judgments of the courts of any State are to have
such faith and credit given to them in every court within the
United States as they have by law or usage in the State in
which they were rendered." p. 291.
"The essential nature and real foundation of a cause of
action are not changed by recovering judgment upon it; and
the technical rules, which regard the original claim as merged
in the judgment, and the judgment as implying a promise by
the defendant to pay it, do not preclude a court, to which a
judgment is presented for affirmative action, (while it cannot
go behind the judgment for the purpose of examining into the
validity of the claim,) from ascertaining whether the claim is
really one of such a nature that the court is authorized to
enforce it." pp. 292, 293.
"The statute of Wisconsin, under which the State recovered
in one of her own courts the judgment now and here sued on,
was in the strictest sense a penal statute, imposing a penalty
upon any insurance company of another State, doing business
in the State of Wisconsin without having deposited with tlfe
proper officer of the State a full statement of its property and
business during the previous year. The cause of action was
not any private injury, but solely the offence committed
against-the State by violating her law. The prosecution was
in the name of the State, and the whole penalty, when recovered; would a.crue 'to the State." p. 299.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

Such were the grounds upon which it was adjudged in that
case that this court, under the provision of the Constitution
giving it original jurisdiction of actions between a State and
citizens of another State, had no jurisdiction of an action by a,
State upon a judgment recovered by it in one of its own courts
against a citizen or a corporation of another State for a pecuniary penalty for a violation of its municipal law.
Upon similar grounds, the courts of a State cannot be compelled to take jurisdiction of a suit to recover a like penalty
for a violation of a law of the United States. i3Jartin v.
Hfunter, 1 Wheat. 304, 330, 337; United States v. Lat/rop, 17
Johns. 4, 265; Delafield v. Illinois, 2 Hill (N. Y.) 159, 169;
Jrackson v. Rose, 2 Virg. Cas. 34=; Ely v. Peck,7 Conn. 239;
Davison v. C/Jamplin, 7 Conn. 244; Haney v. Sharp, 1 Dana,
442; State v. Pike, 15 N. I. 83, 85; Ward v. Jenkins, 10
met. 583, 587; 1 Kent Com. 402-404. The only ground ever
suggested for maintaining such suits in a state court is that
the laws of the United States are in effect laws of each State.
Claftin v. Flousernan, 93 U. S.130, 137; Platt, J., in United
States v. -Lathrop, 17 Johns. 22; Ordway v. Central Bank,
47 Maryland, 217. But in Claftin v. HUouseman the point
adjudged was that an assignee under the bankrupt law of the
United States could assert-in a state court the title vested in
him by the assignment in bankruptcy; and Mr. Justice Bradley, who delivered the opinion in that case, said the year
before, when sitting in the Circuit Court, and speaking of a

prosecution in a court of the State of Georgia for perjury committed in that State in testifying before a commissioner of the
Circuit Court of the United States, "It would be a manifest
incongruity for one sovereignty to punish a.person for an
offence committed against the laws of another sovereignty."
]Ixparte Bridges, 2 Woods, 428, 430. See also loney's case,
134 U. S.372.
Beyond doubt, (except in cases removed from a state court
in obedience to an express act of Congress in order to protect
rights under the Constitution and laws of the United States,)
a Circuit Court of the United States cannot entertain jurisdiction of a suit in behalf of the State, or of the people thereof,

HUNTINGTON v. ATTRILL.
Opinion of the Court.

to recover a penalty imposed by way of punishment for a violation of a statute of the State, "the courts of the United
States," as observed by Mr. Justice Catron, delivering a judgment of this court, "having no power to execute the penal
laws of the individual States." G'win v. Breedlove, 2 How.
29, 36, 37; Gwin v. Barton, 6 How. 7; Iowa v. Chicago &c.
Railway, 37 Fed. Rep. 497; Ferguson,v. Ross, 38 Fed. Rep.
161; Texas v. Day Land & Cattle Co., 41 Fed. Rep. 228;
Dey v. Chicago &c. Railway, 45 Fed. Rep. 82.
For the purposes of extra-territorial jurisdiction, it may well
be that actions by a common informer, called, as Blackstone
says, "popular actions, because they are given to the people
in general," to recover a penalty imposed by statute for an
offence against the law, and which may be barred by a pardon granted before action brought, may stand on the same
ground as suits brought for such a penalty in the name of the
State or of its officers, because they are equally brought to
enforce the criminal law of the State. 3 BI. Com. 161, 162;
2 Bl. Com. 437, 438; Adams v. Woods, 2 Cranch, 336 ; Gwin
v. Breedlove, above cited; United States v. Connor, 138 U. S.
61, 66; Bryant v. JEla, Smith (N. H.) 396. And personal disabilities imposed by the law of a State, as an incident or
consequence of a judicial sentence or decree, by way of punishment of an offender, and not for the benefit of any other
person- such as attainder, or infamy, or incompetency of a
convict to testify, or disqualification of the guilty party to a
cause of divorce for adultery to marry again -are doubtless
strictly penal, and therefore have no extra-territorial operation. Story on Conflict of Laws, §§ 91, 92; Dicey on Domicil,
162; Tolliott v. Ogden, 1 HI. B. 123, and 3 T. R. 726; Logan
v. United States, 144 U. S. 263, 303; Dickson v. Dickson, 1
Yerger, 110; Ponsford v. Johnson, 2 Blatchford, 15; Comnonwealth v. Lane, 113 -Mass. 458, 471; Van Voorhis v.
.Brintnall,86 N. Y. 18, 28, 29.
The question whether a statute of one State, which in some
aspects may be called penal, is a- penal law in the international
sense, so that it cannot be enforced in the courts of another
State, depends upon the question whether its purpose is to
VOL. cxL'vI-43

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

punish an offence against the public justice of the State, or to
afford a private remedy'to a person injured by the wrongful
act. There could be no better illustration of this than the
decision of this court in Dennic7 v. Rlailroad Co., 103 U. S. 11.
In that case, it was held that, by virtue of a statute of New
,Jersey making a person or corporation, whose wrongful act,
neglect or default should cause the death of any person, liable
to an action by his administrator, for the benefit of his widow
and next of kin, to recover damages for the 'pecuniary injury
resulting to them from his death, such an action, whete the
neglect and the death took place in New Jersey, might, upon
general principles of law, be maintained in a Circuit Court of
the United States held in the State of New York by an
administrator of the deceased, appointed in that State.
Mr. Justice Miller, in delivering judgment, said: "It can
scarcely be contended that the act belongs to the class of criminal laws which can only be enforced by the courts of the State
where the offence was committed, for it is, though a statutory
remedy, a civil action to recover damages for a civil injury.
It is, indeed, a right dependent solely on the statute of the
State; but when the act is done for which the law says the
person shall be liable, and the action by which the remedy is
to be enforced is .a personal and not a real action, and is of
that character which the law recognizes as transitory and not
local, we cannot see why the defendant may not be held liable
in any court to whose jurisdiction he can be subjected by personal process or by voluntary appearance, as was the case here.
It is difficult to understand how the nature of the remedy, or
the jurisdiction -of the courts to enforce it, is in any manner
dependent on the question whether it is a statutory right or a
common law right. Wherever, by either the common law or
the statute law of a State, a right of action has become fixed
and a legal liability incurred, that liability may be enforced
and the right of action pursued in any court which has jurisdiction of such matters and can obtain jurisdiction of the parties." 103 U. S. 17, 18.
That decision is important as establishing two points:
Ist. The court considered "criminal laws," that is to say, laws

HUNTINGTON v. ATTRILL.
Opinion of the Court.

punishing crimes, as constituting the whole class of penal laws
which cannot be enforced extra-territorially. 2d. A statute of
a State, manifestly intended to protect life, and to impose a
new and extraordinary civil liability upon those causing death,
by subjecting them to a private action for the pecuniary damages thereby resulting to the family of the deceased, might be
enforced in a Circuit Court of the United States held in another
State, without regard to the question whether a similar liability
would have attached for a similar cause in that State. The
decision was approved and followed at the last term in Texas
& Pacifc Railway v. Cox, 145 U. S. 593, 605, where the Chief
Justice, speaking, for the whole court, after alluding to cases
recognizing the rule where the laws of both jurisdictions are
similar, said: "The question, however, is one of general law,
and we regard it as settled in Dennick v. Railroad Co."
That decision has been also followed in the courts of several
States. Herrick v. -Minneapolis & St. Louis Railway, 31
Minnesota, 11; Chicago &c. Railroadv. Doyle, 60 Mississippi,
977; Knight v. West Jersey Railroad, 108 Penn. St. 250;
.Morris v. Chicago &c. Railway, 65 Iowa., 727; .fissouri
Plac Railway v. Lewis, 24 Nebraska, 848; Higgins v. Central NTew England Railroad,155 Mass. 176.
In the case last cited, a statute of Connecticut having provided that all actions for injuries to the person, including those
resulting instantaneously or otherwise in death, should survive;
and that for an injury resulting in death from negligence the
executor or administrator of the deceased might maintain an
action to recover damages not exceeding $5000, to be distributed among his widow and heirs in certain proportions; it was
held that such an action was not a penal action, and might be
maintained under that statute in Massachusetts by an administrator, appointed there, of a citizen thereof, who had been
instantly killed in Connecticut by the negligence of. a railroad
corporation; and the general principles applicable to the case
were carefully stated as follows: "These principles require
that, in cases of other than penal actions, the foreign law, if
not contrary to our public policy, or to abstract justice or pure
morals, or calculated to injure the State or its citizens, shall

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

be recognized and enforced here, if we have jurisdiction of all
necessary parties, and if we can see that, consistently with our
own forms of procedure and law of trials, we can do substantial justice between the parties. If the foreign law is a penal
statute, or if it offends our ovn policy, or is repugnant to justice or to good morals, or is calculated to injure this State or its
,citizens, or if we have not jurisdiction of parties who must be
brought in to enable us to give a satisfactory remedy, or if under
our forms of procedure an action here cannot giv6 a substantial
remedy, we are at liberty to decline jurisdiction." 155 Mass. 180.
The provision of the statute of New York, now in question,
making the officers of a corporation, who sign and record a
false certificate of the amount of its capital stock, liable for all
its debts, is in no sense a criminal or quasi criminal law. The
statute, while it enables persons complying with its provisions
to do business as a corporation, without being subject to the
liability of general partners, takes pains to secure and maintain
a proper corporate fund for the payment of the corporate debts.
With this aim, it makes the stockholders individually liable for
the debts of the corporation until the capital stock is paid in
and a certificate of the payment made by the officers; and
makes the officers liable for any false and material representation in that certificate. The individual liability of the stockholders takes the place of a corporate fund, until that fund has
been duly created; and the individual liability of the officers
takes the place of the fund, in case their statement tlat it has
been duly created is false. If the officers do not truly state
and record the facts which exempt them from liability, they
are made liable directly to every creditor of the company, who
by reason of their wrongful acts has not the security, for the
payment of his debt out of the corporate property, on which
he had a right to rely. As the-statute imposes a burdensome
liability-on the officers for their wrongful act, it niay well be
considered penal, in the sense that it should be strictly construed. But as it gives a civil remedy, at the private suit of
the creditor only, and measured by the amount of his debt, it
is as to him clearly remedial. To maintain such a suit is not
to administer a punishment imposed upon an offender against

HUNTINTGTON v. ATTRILL.
Opinion of the Court.

the State, but simply to enforce a private right secured under
its laws to an individual. We cansee no just ground, on principle, for holding such a statute to be a penal law, in the sense
that it cannot be enforced in a foreign state or country.
The decisions of the Court of Appeals of New York, so
far as they have been brought to our notice, fall short of holding that the liability imposed upon the officers of the corporation by such statutes is a punishment or penalty which cannot
be enforced in another State.
In Garrisonv. Bowe, the court held that the statute was so
far penal that it must be cons'trued strictly, and therefore the
officers could not be charged with a debt of the corporation,
which was neither contracted nor existing during a default in
making the report required by the statute; and Chief Justice
Denio, in delivering judgment, said: "If the statute were
simply a remedial one, it might be said that the plaintiff's
case was within its equity; for the general object of the law
doubtless was, beside enforcing the duty of making reports
for the benefit of all concerned, to enable parties proposing to
deal with the corporation to see whether they could safely do
so." "But the provision is highly penal, and the rules of law
do not permit us to extend it by construction to cases not
fairly within the language." 17 N. Y. 458, 465, 466.
In Jones v. Barlow, it was accordingly held that officers
were only liable for debts actually due, and for which a present right of actidn exists against the corporation; and the
court said: "Although the obligation is wholly statutory, and
adjudged to be a penalty, it is in substance, as it is in form,
a remedy for the collection of the corporate debts. The act
is penal as against the defaulting trustees, but is remedial in
favor of creditors. The liability of defaulting trustees is
measured by the obligation of the company, and a discharge
of the obligations of the company, or a release of the debt,
bars the action against the trustees." 62 N. Y. 202, 205, 206.
The other cases in that court, cited in the opinion of the Court
of Appeals of Maryland in the present case, adjudged only the
following points: Within the meaning of a statute of limitations applicable to private actions only, the action against an

OCTOBER TERIM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

officer is .not "upon a liability created by statute, other than
a penalty or forfeiture," which would be barred in six years,
but is barred in three years as "an action upon a statute for
a penalty or forfeiture where action is given to the party
aggrieved," because the provisions in question, said the court,
"impose a penalty, or a liability in that nature." i}lerchantv'
Bank v. Bliss, 35 N. Y. 412, 417. A count against a person as an officer for not filing a report cannot be joined
with one against him as a stockholder for debts contracted
before a report is filed, that being "an action on contract."
lFiles v. Suydam, 64 N. Y. 173, 176. The action against an
officer is an action ex delicto, and therefore does not survive
against his personal representatives. Stokes v. Stickney, 96
N. Y. 323.
In a later case than any of these, the court, in affirming
the very judgment now sued on, and adjudging the statute of
1875 to be constitutional and valid, said that "while liability
within the provision in question is in some sense penal in its
character, it 'may have been intended for the protection of
creditors of corporations. created pursuant to that statute."
Funtington v. Attrill, 118 N. Y. 365, 378. And where such
an action against an officer went to judgment before the death
of either party, it was decided that "the original wrong was
merged in the judgment, and that thus became property with
all the attributes of a judgment in an action ex contractit;"
and that if, after a reversal of judgment for the plaintiff, both
parties died, the plaintiff's representatives might maintain an
appeal from the judgment of reversal, and have the defendant's representatives summoned in. Carrv. Ri cer,119 N. Y.
117, 124.
We do not refer to these decisions as evidence in this case
of the law of New York, because in the courts of Maryland
that law could only be proved as a fact., and was hardly open
to proof on the demurrer, and, if not proved in those courts,
could not be taken judicial notice of by this court on this
writ of error. .Tanley v. .Donoghue, 116 tE. S. 1; Chicago &
Alton Railroadv. Wfriggins Fe,,, 119 U. S. 615; Tfernwag
v. Pawling, 5 Gill & Johns. 500, 508; Coates v. 3fackey, 56

HUNTINGTON v. ATTRILL.
Opinion of the Court.

Maryland, 416, 419. Nor, for reasons to be stated presently,
could those decisions, in any view, be regarded as concluding
the courts of Maryland, or this court, upon the question
whether this statute is a penal law in the international sense.
But they are entitled to great consideration, because made by
a court of high authority, construing the terms of a statute
with which it was peculiarly familiar; and it is satisfactory to
find no adjudication of that court inconsistent with the view
which we take of the liability in question.
That court and some others, indeed, have held that the
liability of officers under such a statute is so far in the nature
of a penalty, that the creditors of the corporation have no
vested right therein, which cannot be taken away by a repeal
of the statute before judgment in an action brought thereon.
Trictoy Co. v. Beecher, 97 N. Y. 651, and 26 Hun, 48; Union
Iron Co. v. Pierce, 4 Bissell, 327; Breitung v. .Lindauer,37
Michigan, 217, 230; Gregory v. Germaa Bank, 3 Colorado,
332. But whether that is so, or whether, within the decision
of this court in JHawthorne v. Calef, 2 Wall. 10, 23, such a
repeal so affects the security which the creditor had when his
debt was contracted, as to impair the obligation of his contract with the corporation, is aside from the question now
before us.
It is true that the courts of some States, including Maryland, have declined to enforce a similar liability imposed by
the statute of atiother State. But, in each of those cases,-it
appears to have been assumed to be a sufficient ground for
that conclusion, that the liability was not founded in contract,
but was in the nature of a penalty imposed by statute; and
no reasons were given for considering the statute a penal law
in the strict, primary and international sense. .Derriceon v.

Smith, 3 Dutcher (27 N. J. Law), 166; Halsey v. .TcLeamn, 12
Allen, 438 ; First NationalBank v. Price, 33 Maryland, 487.
It is also true that in Steam Engine Co. v. Hubbard,101
U. S. 188, 192, Mr. Justice Clifford referred to those cases by
way of argument. But in that case, as well as in Chase v.
Curtis, 113 U. S. 452, the only point adjudged was that
such statutes were so far penal that they must be construed

OCTOBER TER.U, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

strictly; and in both cases jurisdiction was assumed by the
Circuit Court of the United States, and not doubted by this
court, which could hardly have been if the statute had been
deemed penal within the maxim of international law. In
Flash v. Conn, 109 U. S. 371, the liability sought to be
enforced under the statute of New York was the liability of
a, stockholder arising upon contract; and no question was
presented as to the nature of the liability of officers.
But in Hornor v. Renning, 93 U. S. 228, this coprt declined
to consider a similar liability of officers of a corporation in
the District of Columbia as a penalty. See also Neal v. Moultrie, 12 Georgia, 104; Cady v. Sanford, 53 Vermont, 632,
639, 640; Nickerson v. 17heeler, 118 Mass. 295, 298; Post v.
Toledo &c. Riailroad, 144 Mass. 341, 345; T]oolvertom v.
Taylor, 132 Illinois, 197; Morawetz on Corporations (2d ed.)

§ 90S.
The case of .MissouriPacific Railway v. Humes, 115 U. S.
5l2, on which the defendant much relied, related only to the
authority of the legislature of a State to compel railroad
corporations, neglecting to provide fences and cattle-guards
on the lines of their roads, to pay double damages to the
owners of cattle injured by reason of the neglect; and no
question of the jurisdiction of the courts of another State to
maintain an action for such damages was involved in the case,
suggested by counsel, or in the mind of the court.
The true limits of the international rule are well stated in
the decision of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council
of England, upon an appeal from Canada, in an action brought
by the present plaintiff against Attrill in the Province of
Ontario upon the judgment to enforce which the present suit
was brought. The Canadian judges, having in evidence before
them some of the cases in the Court of Appeals of New York,
above referred to, as well as the testimony of a well known
lawyer of New York that such statutes were, and had been
held by that court to be, strictly penal and punitive, differed
in opinion upon the question whether the statute of New York
was a penal law which could not be enforced in another country, as well as upon the question whether the view taken by

HUNTINGTON v. ATTRILL.
Opinion of the Court.

the courts of New York should be conclusive upon foreign
courts, and finally gave judgment for the defendant. Ifntinglto v. Attrill, 17 Ontario, 245, and 18 Ontario App. 136.
In the Privy Council, Lord Watson, speaking for Lord
Chancellor ilalsbury and other judges, as well as for himself,
delivered an opinion in favor of reversing the judgment below,
and entering a decree for the appellant, upon the ground that
the action "was not, in the sense of international law, penal,
or, in other words, an action on behalf of the government or
community of the State of New York for punishment of an
offence against their municipal law." The fact that that opinion has not been found in any series of reports readily accessible in this country, but only in 8 Times Law Reports, 341,
affords special reasons for quoting some passages.
"The rule" of international law, said Lord Watson, "had
its foundation in the well recognized principle that crimes,
including in that term all breaches of public law punishable
by pecuniary mulct or otherwise, at the instance of the state
government, or of some one representing the public, were local
in this sense, that they were only cognizable and punishable
in the country where they were committed. Accordingly no
proceeding, even in the shape of a civil suit, which had for its
object the enforcement by the State, whether directly or indirectly, of punishment imposed for such breaches by the lex
loci, ought to be admitted in the courts of any other country.
In its ordinary acceptation, the word 'penal' might embrace
penalties for infractions of general law, which did not constitute offences against the State; it might, for many legal purposes, be. applied with perfect propriety to penalties created
by contract; and it, therefore, when taken by itself, failed to
mark that distinction between civil rights and criminal wrongs,
which was the very essence of the international rule."'
After observing that, in the opinion of the Judicial Committee, the first passage above quoted from Wisconsin v. Pelican
Ins. Co., 127 U. S. 265, 290, "disclosed the proper test for
ascertaining whether an action was penal within the meaning
of the rule," he added: "A proceeding, in order to come
within the scope of the rule, must be in the nature of a suit in

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

favor of the State whose law had been infringed. All the
provisions of municipal statutes for the regulation of trade and
trading companies were presumably enacted in the interest
and for the benefit of the community at large; and persons
who violated those provisions were, in a certain sense, offenders against the state law as well as against individuals who
might be injured by their misconduct. But foreign tribunals
d&i_ not regard those violations of statute law as offences
aghinst the State, unless their vindication rested with the
State itself or with the community which it represented. Penalties might be attached to them, but that circumstance would
not bring them within the rule, except in cases where those
penalties were recoverable at the instance of the State, or of
an official duly authorized to prosecute on its behalf, or of a
member of the public in the character of a common informer.
An action by the latter was regarded as an actiopopularis
pursued, not in his individual interest, but in the interest of
the whole community."
He had already, in an earlier part of the opinion, observed:
"Their lordships could not assent to thd proposition that, in
considering whether the present action was penal in such
sense as to oust their jurisdiction, the courts of Ontario were
bound to pay absolute deference to any interpretation which
might have been put upon the statute of 1875 in the State of
New York. They had to construe and apply an international
rule, which was a matter of law entirely within the cognizance
of the foreign court whose jurisdiction was invoked. Judicial
decisions in the State where the cause of action arose were
not precedents which must be followed, although the reasoning upon which they were founded must always receive careful consideration and might be conclusive. The court appealed
to must determine for itself, in the first place, the substance
of the right sought to be enforced, and, in the second place,
whether its enforcement would, either directly or indirectly,
involve the execution of the penal law of another State. Were
any other principle to guide its decision, a court might find
itself in the position of giving effect in one case, and denying
effect in another, to suits of the same character, in consequence

HUNTINGTONq v. ATTRILL.
Opinion of the"Court.

of the causes of action havit~g arisen in different countries; or
in the predicament of being 66nd~rained to give.effect to laws
which were, in its own judgment, strictly penal."
In this view that the question is not one of local, but of
international law, we fully concur. The test is not by what
name the statute is called by the legislature or the courts of
the State in which it was passed, but whether it appears to
the tribunal which is called upon to enforce it to be, in its essential character and effect, a punishment of an offence against
the public, or a grant of a civil righi to a private person.
In this country, the question 6f international law must be
determined in the first instance by the court, state or national,

in which the suit is brought. If the suit is brought in a Circuit Court of the United States, it is one of those questions of
general jurisprudence which that court must decide for itself,
ancontrolled by local decisionm. Burgess v. Seligman, 107 U. S.
20, 33; Texas & Pacific Railway v. Cox, 145 U. S. 593, 605,
above cited. If a suit on the original liability under the statute of one State is brought in a court of another State, the
Constitution and laws of the United Stateslhave not authorized
its decision upon such a question to be reviewed by this court.
New York Ins. Co. v. Iendren, 92 U.S.286 ; Roth v. Ehman,
107 U. S.319. But if the original liability has passed into
judgment in"
one State, the courts 6f another State, when asked
to enforce it, are bound by the Constitution and laws of the
United States to give full faith and credit to that judgment,
and if they do not; their decision, as said at the outset of this
opinion, may be reviewed and reversed by this court on writ
of error. -The essential nature and real fouidation of a cause
of action, indeed, are not changed by recovering judgment
upon it. This was directly adjudged in Wisconsin v. Pelican
ns. Co., above cited. The difference is only in the appellate
jurisdiction of t6is court in the one case or in the other.
If a suit-to enforce a judgment rendered in one State, and
which has not changed the essential nature of the liability, is
brought in the courts of another State, this court, in order to
determine, on writ of error, whether the highest court of the
latter State has given full faith and credit to the judgment,

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

must determine for itself whether the original cause of action
is penal in the international sense. The case, in this regard,
is analogous to one arising under the clause of the Constitution
which forbids a State to pass any law impairing the obligation of contracts, in which, if the highest court of a State
decides nothing but the original construction and obligation
of a contract, this court has no jurisdiction to review its decigion; but if the state court gives effect to a subsequent law,
which is impugned as impairing the obligation of a contract,
this court has power, in order to determine whether'any contract has been impaired, to decide for itself what the true
constructi~n of the contract is. '.New Orleans Waterworks v.
Louisiana 8ugar Co., 125 U. S. 18, 38. So if the state court,
in an action to enforce the original liability under the law of
another State, passes upon the nature of that liability and
nothing else, this court cannot review its decision; but if the
state court declines to give full faith and credit to a judgment
of another State, because of its opinion as to the nature of the
cause of action on which the judgment was recovered, this
court, in determining whether full faith and credit have been
given to that judgment, must decide for itself the nature of
the original liability.
Whether the Court of Appeals of Maryland gave full faith
and credit to the judgment recovered by this plaintiff in New
York depends up6n the true construction-of the provisions of
the Constitution and of the act of Congress upon that subject.
. The provision of the Constitution is as follows: "Full faith
and bredit shall be given in each State to the public acts,
records and judicial proceedings of every other State. And
the Congress may by general laws prescribe the manner in
which suoh acts, records and proceedings shall be proved, and
the effect thereof." Art.- , sect. 1.
. This clause of the Constitution, like the less perfect provision on, the subject in the Articles of Confederation, as
observed by Mlfr. Justice Story, "was intended to giye the
same conclusive effect to judgments of all the States, so as to
promote uniformity, as well as c.ertainty, in the rule among
them.;" and had three distinct objects: first, to declare, and

HUNTINGTON

v. ATTIILL.

Opinion-of the Court.

by its own force establish, that full faith and credit should be
given to the judgments of every other State; second, to
authorize Congress to prescribe the manner of authenticating
them; and third, to authorize Congress to prescribe their
effect when so authenticated. Story on the Constitution, §§
1307, 1308.
Congress, in the exercise of the power so conferred, besides
prescribing the manner in which the records and judicial proceedings of any State may be authenticated, has defined the
effect thereof, by enacting that "the'said records and judicial
proceedings, so authenticated, shall have such faith and credit
given to them in every court within the United States, as
they have by law or usage in the courts of the State from
which they are taken." Rev. Stat. § 905, reenacting Act of
May 26, 1790, c. 11, 1 Stat. 122.
These provisions of the Constitution and laws of the United
States are necessarily to be read in the light of some established principles, which they were not intended to overthrow.
They give no effect to judgments of a court which had no
jurisdiction of the subject-matter or of the parties. D'Ar'cy
v. -etchum, 11 How. 165; Tiompson v. lV itman, IS Wall.
457. And they confer no new jurisdiction on the courts of
any State; and therefore do not authorize them to take jurisdiction of a suit or iprosecution of such a penal nature, that
it cannot, on settled i'ples of public ana international law, be
entertained by the judiciary of any other State than that in
which the penalty was incurred.
Fisconsin v. Pelican Ins.
Co., above cited.
Nor do these provisions put the judgmefits of other 'States
upon the footing of domestic judgments, to be enforced by
execution; but they leave the manner in which they may be
enforced to.the law of the State in which they are sued on,
pleaded, or offered in evidence. JMcElmoyle v. Cohen, 13 Pet.
3120, 325. But when duly pleaded and proved in a court of
that State, they have the effect of being not merely prima
facie evidence, but conclusive proof, of the rights thereby
adjudicated; and a refusal to give them the force and effect,
in this respect, which they had in the Stat6 in which they

OCTOBER TERMI, 1892.
Dissenting Opinion: Fuller, C.J.

were rendered, denies to the party a right secured to him by
the Constitution and laws of the United States. Christmas
v. Russell, 5 Wall. 290 ; Green v. Van Buskirk, 5 Wall. 307,
and 7 Wall. 139; Insurance Co. v. Harris,97 U. S. 331, 336;
Crescent City Co. v. Butchers' Union, 120 U. S.141, 146, 147;
Ca7pTenter v.. Strange, 141 U. S. 87.
The judgment rendered by a court of the State of New
York, now in question, is not impugned for any want of jurisdiction in that court. The statute under which* that judgment was recovered was not, for the reasons already stated at
length, a penal law inthe international sense. The faith and
credit, for~e and effect, which that judgment had by law and
usage in New York was to be conclusive evidence of a direct civil
liability from the individual defendant to the individual plaintiff for a certain sum of money, and a debt of record, on which
an action would lie, as on any other civil judgment inter
partes. -The Court of Appeals of Maryland, therefore, in
deciding this case against the plaintiff, upon the ground that
the judgment was not. one which it was bound in any manner
to enforce, denied to the judgment the full faith, credit and
effect to which it was entitled under the Constitution and laws
of the United States.
Judgment 'eversed, and case Pemanded to the Court of
-.Appeals of the State of 2fJarylandforfurtherproceedings
not inconsistent with the opinion of this court.
MR. CHIEF JUSTicE FuLLER dissenting.
This suit was not an action at law to recover judgment in
Maryland upon the judgment in New York, nor was it an
ordinary creditor's bill brought by a creditor to reach equitable
assets. The judgment and- execution had no extra-territorial
force, and Huntington was a judgment creditor in New York
only. It was the bill of a creditor at large to set aside an
alleged fraudulent transfer, judgment not being essential under
the statute of Maryland in that behalf. It could not have been
sustained at all but for that act, and it did not assume to proceed upon'the theory that the transfer was invalid because

HUNTINGTO1N v. ATTRILL.
Dissenting Opinion: Fuller, C.J.

made with intent to defeat the collection of the judgment as
such. The judgment of another State could not be made
executory in Maryland either at law or in equity.
The ground of relief in this case was the charge that Attrill
had transferred certain stock in April, 1882, with intent to hinder, delay and defraud the plaintiff of his lawful suits, debts
and demands in respect of a liability of Attrill to him as a
stockholder and as a director of the Rockaway Company,
which accrued in 1880,,upon the statute of New York, under
which that company was. organized. An action upon this liability, either as stockholder or director, was barred by the
statute of limitations of Maryland, and so the Maryland court
held. The judgment recovered in New York in 1886 by
Huntington against Attrill upon the alleged liability as a
director was, however, referred to and made part of the bill,
and in this judgment that cause of action had been merged.
And it was averred that the transfer was fraudulent as to the
indebtedness arising "out of the cause of action on which the
judgment hereinbefore recited has been recovered," which was
set forth in detail.
The New York statute was made part of the pleading and
admitted as a fact by the demurrer; and while the Maryland
court held that the judgment was conclusive evidence of its
existence in the form and under the circumstances stated in
the pleadings, it regarded it as not changing the character
of the liability upon which it was based. The record established the relation of debtor and creditor at the time
stated and the amount and fact of the indebtedness, but nothing further.
As plaintiff had no judgment in Maryland, and had not
sought to recover one, the pleader, in order to make out the
alleged fraud as perpetrated in 1882, went into the original

cause of action at large, and invited the attention of' the court
to its nature. The question at once arose wheth6r the courts
of Maryland were constrained to enforce such'a cause of action,
although record evidence of its maintenance in New York
existed in the form of a judgment there. The court held that
the liability was not one arising upon contract, but one imposed

OCTOBER TERIA,

1892.

Dissenting Opinion: Fuller, C.J.

upon Attrill as a wrongdoer; that under the statute no inquiry
was to be made whether the creditor had been deceived and
induced by deception to lend his money or to give credit, or
whether he had incurred loss to any extent by the inability 6f
the corporation to pay, ror was the recovery limited to the
amount of the loss sustained; that all that it was necessary to
show was that the act had been committed, and thereupon any
creditor was entitled to recover the full amnount of his debt.
See Torbett v. Eaton, 113 N. Y. 623; S. C'. 49 Hun, 209;
_Huntington v. Attrill, 118 N. Y. 365. Hence the court concluded that the liability was in the nature of a penalty within
the rule thretofore laid down by the courts of New York:
-Merchants'Banke v. Bliss, 35 N. Y. 412; Viles v. Suydam,, 64
N. Y. 173; Stokes v. Stickney, 96 N. Y. 323; Chase v. Curtis,
113 U. S. 452; Flash v. Conn,.109 U. S. 371; and- by the courts
of Maryland: Bank v. Price, 33 Maryland, 487; 11,rorris v.
V renschall, 3-4 Maryland, 49 . Its enforcement was therefore
declined, and the bill dismissed..
It was for the Maryland court to determine whether such
enforcement would either directly or indirectly involve the
execution of the penal laws of another State; and although it
might have been mistaken in the conclusion arrived at, such
error does not give this court jurisdiction to review its judgment. State courts do not adjudicate in the matter of the
enforceability of statutory delicts at their ileril.
In my bpinion, the Maryland court gave all the force and
effect to the judgment in question to which it was entitled.
The pleadings were necessarily confined to the equities arising out of the original cause of action, and full faith and
credit were accorded to .the judgment as matter of evidence. Its effect as such could not render it incompetent
for the state court to decide for itself the question which
was raised upon the record. As there presented, it was for
that court to say whether the obligation on Attrill to pay the
sum. for which the judgment was given was an obligation
which the Maryland court was bound to recognize as proper
foundation for relief in equity in. respect of the transfer of
April, 1882.

POTTS v. WALLACE.
Statement of the Case.

I think that no Federal question was involved, and that the
writ of error ought to be dismissed.
MR. JusTic LAIAI and MR. JUSTICE SHIRAS, not having
heard the argument, took no part in the decision of this case.

POTTS v. WALLACE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 41. Argued November 14, 1892.-Decided December 12, 1892.

The directors of a corporation organized under the laws of Pennsylvania
voted to make an assignment of the property of the corporation for the
benefit of its creditors, which vote was ratified by the stockholders.
They further voted to make a mortgage to secure a claim of one of the
directors as a preferred claim. The assignment was made without
making the mortgage. In an action by the assignee to enforce payment
from a stockholder of his subscription to the stock, held, that the
defendant could not set up the failure to make the mortgage as invalidating the assignment.
When the assets of an insolvent corporation, organized under the laws of
Pennsylvania, fail to meet the liabilities of the company by an amount
equal to or greater thAn the sum due the company from a stockholder by
reason of unpaid subscriptions to his stock, the assignee has an action
at law against him to recover such unpaid subscriptions without first
resorting to equity for an assessment.
In an action against a stockholder in an insolvent corporation to recover
unpaid subscriptions to his stock for the benefit of creditors, it is no
defence to show that wl.en the corporation was solvent he offered to
pay in full and his offer was declined, if it also further appear that he
refused to be absolvedl from his contract, and stood upon his rights as a
stockholder until the company became embarrassed.
When the plaintiff's evidence makes out aprimafaciecase, and the defendant,
after going into his evidence, does not go to the jury on the question of
fact, he abandons his defence, so far as it depends on his own evidence;
and takes the position that the plaintiff's evidence does not make out a
case.

THIs was an action brought originally in the New York
Supreme Court, and afterwards removed into the -Circuit
VOL. cxLvi-44

