OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case..

words, whether he was the attorney of the Colehours when
he acquired the legal title, or whether, upon principles of
equity, Roby should be deemed to have acquired the title for
them and himself, subject to the declaration of trust referred
to in the pleadings and decree, are not questions of a Federal
nature. The decree below, in respect to those mattexrs, is not
subject to reexamination by this court. The Federal questions having been decided correctly, and those questions being
such as not to need any further argument beyond that presented in the briefs of counsel, the decree in each of the cases
must be
__________Affrme~d.

MORLEY v. LAKE SHORE AND MICHIGAN
SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO TEE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 1. Argued October 14, 17, 1802. -Decided

November 14, 1892.

The Court of Appeals of the State of New York having held that a judgment obtained before the passage of the act of the Legislature of that
State of June 20, 1879, reducing the rate of interest, (Sess. Laws 1879,
598, c. 538,) is not a "contract or obligation" excepted from it operation under the provisions of ยง 1, this court accepts that construction as
binding here.
The provision in ยง 10 of Art. 1, of the Constitution of the United States
that " no State shall" "pass any" " law impairing the obligation of
contracts," does not forbid a State from legislating, within its discretion, to reduce the rate of interest upon judgments previously obtained
in its courts; as the judgment creditor has no contract whatever in that
respect with the judgment debtor, and as the former's right to receive,
and the latter's obligation to pay exists only as to such an amount of
interest as the State chooses to prescribe as a penalty or liquidated
damages for the nonpayment of the judgment.
A state statute reducing the rate of interest upon all judgments obtained
within the courts of the State does not, when applied to one obtained
previous to its passage, deprive the judgment creditor of his property
without due process of law, in violation of the provisions of ยง 1 of the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.

Tmns case was first argued on the 23d and 24th days of
October, 1888, at October term, 1888. .Ar. -Lucien Birds-

'MORLEY v. LAKE SHORE RAILWAY CO.
Opinion of the Court.

eye for plaihtiff in error.

Xr. . S. Rapallo for defendant

in error. On the 29th of the same month it was ordered for
reargument.
It was ordered continued at that term, and also at October
terms 1889, 1890 and 1891. At the present term it was
argued on the 14th and 17th days of October. The case -hen
made is stated in the opinion.
3fr. William Ford Upeon (with whom was .AXr. William
Forse Scott on the brief, and _M!r. George Hoadly for plaintiff
in error.
h r. Edward S. Rapallo for defendant in error.
MR. JusricE SHimAs delivered the opinion of the court.

John S. Prouty, of the city and -State of New York, was a
holder and owner of certain preferred and giiaranteed stock of
the Michigan Southern and Northern Indiana Railroad Company. This stock was issued in the city of New York, in the
year 1857, and the guaranteed dividends and interest were to
be there paid. Subsequently, it being alleged that the said
company was in arrears of dividends and interest dpae Mr.
Prouty as holder and owner of its stock, an action was commenced by him in the Supreme Court of the State of New
York in and for the city and county of New York, special
term, upon the equity side, to compel the said company specifically to perform its contract and agreement with him. During
the pendency of the action, evidence was produced tending to
show that, after the commencement of the same, the said
company wds, with various other companies, merged o, consolidated into the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railway
Company, the present defendant in error. Upon this evidence
the consolidated company was permitted to be brought in as
defendant by supplemental complaint. In pursuance of this
complaint, after a trial at special term, the Supreme Court, on
motion, decreed that the railroad company should specifically
perform all and every act and acts necessary and proper for

OCTOBER TERIf, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

the specific performance of the contract and agreement in the
findings and decisions of the special term set forth, and made,
as therein stated, with the plaintiff as holder and o'wner of the
stock in question, and to pay the plaintiff the amount of the
arrears as dividends, being $27,426.67 with interest, the whole
aggregating $53,184.88; and also decreed that immediately
after service of a copy of the judgment the company should
declare and make payable, and pay out of any of the net earnings of the company, the said sum of $53,18-S88 together
with interest thereon from the entry of said judgment, and
that in case of failure, within thirty days after service of the
judgment, to pay the said sum of $53,184.88, and said interest,
the plaintiff should have execution therefor against the defendant. On appeal by the defendant from this decree to the general term of the Supreme Court, and afterwards to the Court
of Appeals, the decree was affirmed, and was entered in the
office of the clerk of the county of -New York on the 26th day
of January, 1878. The proceedings in the action prior to this
decree do not appear in the record before this court, but such
facts as are not shown by.the record, and which deserve to be
stated here, are gathered from the briefs and data therein
cited, and seem to be undisputed.
The directions of the said decree not being complied with,
on the 21st day of Mlay, 1881, an execution was duly issued
for the amount of the decree, with interest, and thereupon tho
defendant company paid to the sheriff the said amount, with
interest at the rate of seven per cent per annum up to January
1, 1880, and interest at the rate of six per cent per annum
from January 1, 1880, to May 21, 1881, the time of such payment, and demanded that the execution be returned satisfied.
It would seem that the reason for the refusal to pay seven per
cent interest after January 1, 1880, was the passage of the act
of June 20, 1879, of the legislature of the State of New York,
changing the rate of interest upcn the loan or forbearance of
any money, goods, or things in action from seven per cent to
six per cent per annum, which act, upon January 1, 1880,
began to take effect.

The sheriff and plaintiff received the

said sum on account and demanded an additional amount,

MORLEY v. LAKE SHORE RAILWAY CO.
Opinion of the Court.

which would be the balance due upon computing the interest
at the rate of seven per cent per annum for the whole time.
Thereupon, the railroad company, by its attorney, obtained a
rule to show cause why the said execution should not be returned fully satisfied, or why the said judgment should not be
discharged and marked satisfied of record, or why the sheriff
should not be forever enjoined from making any levy or sale
under said execution. This application was, at a special term
of the Supreme Court of New York, denied. The general
term of the same court afterwards affirmed the denial of this
motion by the special term. An appeal was then taken from
the said general term of the said Supreme Court to the Court
of Appeals, where the decision of the Supreme Court was
reversed, and that court was ordered to grant the motion.
(95 N.Y. 428 and 667.)
The complainant thereupon, by a writ of error, brought the
matter from the Court of Appeals, which is the highest court
having jurisdiction thereof in the State of New York, to this
court.
In considering this case we shall find it convenient to have
before us certain sections of the statutes of New York, namely:
Revised Statutes, Part II, c. IV, tit. 3; enacted December 4,
1827, and taking effect January 1, 1830 (1 Rev. St. 1st ed.
771).
"Sc.1. The rate of interest upon the loan or forbearance
of any money, goods, or things in action shall continue to be
seven dollars upon one hundred dollars for one year, and after
that rate for a greater or less sum, or for a longer or shorter
time."
Laws 1879, 598, c. 538. (An act to amend the title containing the section above quoted, passed June 20, 1879, and
taking effect January 1, 1880.)
11SEc. 1. The rate of interest upon the loan or forbearance
of any money, goods, or things in action shall be six dollars
upon one hundred dollars for one year, and after that rate for
a greater or less sum, or for a longer or shorter time; but

OCTOBER TERMT, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

nothing herein contained shall be so construed as to in any
way affect any contract or obligation made before the passage
of this act.
"SEc. 2. All acts or parts of acts inconsistent with the
provisions of this act are hereby repealed.
"SEC. 3. This act shall take effect on the first day of
January, 1880."
Laws 1877, 468, 477, c. 417. (An enactment of June 2, 1876,
taking effect September 1, 1877.)
"SEC. 1211. A judgment for a sun of money, rendered in a
court of record, or not of record, or a judgment rendered in a
court of record directing the payment of money, bears interest
from the time when it is entered."
The first question we have to consider is the effect to be
given to the saving clause contained in the first section of the
act of June 20, 1879, which provides that nothing therein
contained shall be so construed as to in any way affect any
contract or obligation made before the passage of that act.
This question is answered for us by the decision of the Court
of Appeals of New York in this very case, holding that this
saving clause is not applicable in the case of a judgment like
the plaintiff's. In Louisiana v. Pilsbury, 105 U. S. 278, 294,
this court, spealdng by Mr. Justice Field, says: "Whether
such a construction [by judicial'decisions upon a clause of the
state constitution] was a sound one, is not an open question.
The exposition given by the highest tribunal of the
State must be taken as correct so far as contracts made under
the act are concerned. . . . The construction, so far as
contract obligations incurred under it are concerned, constitutes a part of the law as much as i embodied in it. So far
does this doctrine extend, that when a statute of two States,
expressed in the same terms, is construed differently by the
highest courts, they are treated by us as different laws, each
embodying the particular construction of its own State, and
enforced in accordance with it in all cases arising under it."
"The rule of construction adopted by the highest court of the
*

MORLEY v. LAKE SHORE RAILWAY CO.

167

Opinion of the Court.

State, in construing their own constitution, and one of their
own statutes in a case not involving any question rexaminable in this court under the twenty-fifth section of the judiciary act, must be regarded as conclusive in this court."
Provident Institution v. .Massackusetts, 6 Wall. 611, 630.
"The construction given to a statute of a State by the highest judicial tribunal of such State is regarded as a part of the
statute, and is as binding upon the courts of the United States
as the text." Leffngwell v. W'rarren, 2 Black, 599, 603. The
meaning of a state statute, declared by the highest court of a
State, is conclusive upon this court. Randall v. Brigham, 7
Wall. 523, 541. If, then, the law as enacted by the legislature, and construed by the state judiciary, will be the law of
the State, it follows that, as to the proper construction of the
statute and as to what should be regarded as among its terms,
no Federal question could arise. The most that could be
claimed would be that, although the statute of the State was
unobjectionable, yet the state court"had erroneously construed
it. This would constitute a purely judicial error, involving
no question of the validity of the law; which latter question
alone is, by the plainest possible terms of the Constitution and
judiciary act, subject to investigation here. Assuming, then,
that the statute in question was correctly construed by the
New York court, our only inquiry must be as to the validity
of the statute itself, as construed by the state court. Did,
then, the law that changed the rate of interest thereafter to
accrue on a subsisting judgment, infringe a contract within
the meaning of the Constitution of the United States?
Before we state the conclusions reached by this court, the
contention on behalf of the plaintiff in -error may be briefly
stated, as follows:
The judgment was based on a contract, which, as soon as it
became a cause of action by the failure of the defendant to
comply with its terms, began, under the then existing law of
the State, to draw interest at the rate of seven per cent per
annum, and, when merged into .judgment, was entitled to
draw interest at that rate until paid; that such judgment was
itself a contract in the constitutional sense; and that the in-

OCTOBER TERAT, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

terest accruing and to accrue was as much a part of the contract as the principal itself, and equally within the protection
of the Constitution.
Interest on a principal sum may be stipulated for in the
contract itself, either to run from the date of the contract
until it matures, or until payment is made; and its payment
in such a case is as much a part of the obligation of contract
as the principal, and equally within the protection of the Constitution. But if the contract itself does not provide for interest, then, of course, interest does not accrue during the running
of the contract, and whether, after maturity and a failure to
pay, interest shall accrue, depends wholly on the law of the
State, as declared by its statutes. If the State declares that,
in case of the breach of a contract, interest shall accrue, such
interest is in the nature of damages, and, as between the parties to the contract, such interest will continue to run until
payment, or until the owner of the cause of action elects to
merge it into judgment.
After the cause of action, whether a tort or a broken contract,
not itself prescribing interest till payment, shall have been
merged into a judgment, whether interest shall accrue upon the
judgment is a matter not of contract between the parties, but
of legislative discretion, which is free, so far as the Constitution
of the United States is concerned, to provide for interest as a
penalty or liquidated damages for the non-payment of the
judgment, or not to do so. When such provision is made by
statute, the owner of the judgment is, of course, entitled to
the interest so prescribed until payment is received, or until
the State shall, in the exercise of its discretion, declare that
such interest shall be changed or cease to accrue. Should the
statutory damages for non-payment of a judgment be determined by a State, either in whole or in part, the owner of a
judgment will be entitled to receive and have a vested right
in the damages which shall have accrued up to the date of the
legislative change; but after that time his rights as to interest
as damages are, as when he first obtained his judgment, just
what the legislature chooses to declare. He has no contract
whatever on the subject with the defendant in the judgment,

MORLEY v. LAKE SHORE RAILWAY CO.

169

Opinion of the Court.

and his right is to receive, and the defendant's obligation is to
pay, as damages, ju-. what the State chooses to prescribe.
It is contended on behalf of the plaintiff in error, as stated
above, that the judgment is itself a contract, and includes
within the scope of its obligation the duty to pay interest
thereon. As we have seen, it is doubtless the duty of the
defendant to pay the interest that shall accrue on the judgment, if such interest be prescribed by statute, but such duty
is created by the statute, and not by the agreement of the
parties, and the judgment is not itself a contract within the
meaning of the constitutional provision invoked by the plaintiff in error. The most important elements of a contract are
wanting. There is no aggregatio mentium. The defendant
has not voluntarily assented or promised to pay. "A judgment is, in no sense, a contract or agreement between the parties."
Wyman v. .Mitchell, 1 Cowen, 316, 321. In .Mic'onn
v. Vew York Central, &c. Railroad, 50 N. Y. 176, 180, it was
said that "a statute liability wants all the elements of a contract, consideration and mutuality, as well as the assent of
the party. Even a judgment founded upon a contract is no
contract." In Bidleson v. ]Vtytel, 3 Burrow, 1545, it was
held by Lord Mansfield, after great deliberation, and after
consultation with all the judges, that "a judgment is no contract, nor can be considered in the light of a contract: for
judiciuraredditur in invitum." To a seire facias on a judgment, entered in 13 Car. II, the defendant for plea alleged
that the contract upon which recovery was had was usurious,
to which plea the plaintiff demurred, saying that judgments
cannot be void upon such a ground, since by the judgment
the original contract which is supposed to be usurious is determined, and cited the case of iliddleton v. Hall, (Gouldsb.
128; S. C.sub nom. 3fiddleton v. Bill, Cro. Eliz. 588). And
according to this the plea was ruled bad, and jhdgment
given for the plaintiff. Rowe v. Bellaseys, 1 Siderfin, 182.
"To a scire facias on a judgment by confession, the defendant pleaded that the warrant of attorney was given on an
usurious contract. And upon demurrer it was held that this
was not within the statute 12 Anne [of usury], or to be got at

OCTOBER TERMN, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

this way, for this is no contract or assurance, a judgment
being redditum in inviftun." Bush and others v. Cower, 2
Strange, 1043. In Louisiana v. -ew Orleans, 109 U. S. 285,
288, in which it was contended on behalf of an owner of a
judgment that it was a contract, and within the protection of
the Federal Constitution as such, it was said that "the term
'contract' is, used in the Constitution in its ordinary sense, as
signifying the agreement of two or more minds, for considerations proceeding from one to the other, to do, of' not to do,
certain acts. Mutual assent to its terms is'of its very essence.'"
Where the transaction is not based upon any assent of parties
it cannot be said that any faith is pledged with respect to it,
and no case arises for the operation of the constitutional prohibition. Garrisom.v. City of New York, 21 Wall. 196, 203.
It is true that in loidisiana v. -ew Orleans, and in Garrisoa
v. City of New York, the causes of action merged in the judgments were not contract obligations; but in both those cases,
as in this, the court was dealing with the contention that the
judgments themselves were contractsyroprio vigore.
A large portion of the able argument in behalf of the plaintiff in error was directed to a discussion of the question how
far the legislature may change remedies on existing contracts,
without impairing their obligation in the, constitutional sense,
and our special attention was asked to the case of Gunn v.
Ba-'ry, 15 Wall. 610. That was a case wherein this court
held that, as respects a creditor who had obtained by his
judgment a lien on the land which a former exemption secured to him while the new one destroyed it, the law creating
the new exemption impaired the obligation of a contract, and
was unconstitutional and void. The doctrine of that and
similar cases does not seem to be applicable to the present
case. Much discussion has been had in many cases, in this
and other courts, in the attempt to fix definitely the line between the alterations of the remedy which are deemed legitimate, and those which, under the form of modifying the
remedy, impair substantial rights. But if we are right in our
'iew of the nature of the present case, we are not called upon
to review or consider those cases. If it be true, as we have

MORLEY v. LAKE SHORE RAILWAY CO.

171

Opinion' of the Court.

endeavored to show, that interest allowed for non payment of
judgments is in the nature of statutory damages, and if the
plaintiff in the present case has received all such damages
which accrued while his judgment remained unpaid, there is
no change or withdrawal of remedy. His right was to collect
such damages as the State, in its discretion, provided should
be paid by defendants who should fail to promptly pay judgments which should be entered against them, and such right
has not been destroyed or interfered with by legislation. The
discretion exercised by the legislature in prescribing what, if
any, damages shall be paid by way of compensation for delar
in the payment of judgments is based on reasons of public policy, and is altogether outside the sphere of private contracts.
The well settled rule that in a suit on this New York judgment in another State the interest recoverable is that allowed
by the latter, points to the conclusion that such interest is in
the nature of damages, and does not arise out of any contract
between the parties; for, as is said by Chief Justice Marshall
in Ogden v. Saunders, 12 Wheat. 213, 343, "if the law becomes
a part of the contract, change of place would not expunge the
condition. A contract made in New York would be the same
in any other State as in New York, and would still retain the
stipulation originally introduced into it."
The further contention of the plaintiff in error, that he has
been deprived of his property without due process of law, can
be more readily disposed of. If, as we have seen, the plaintiff
has actually received on account of his judgment all that he
is entitled to receive, he cannot be said to have been deprived
of his property; and whether or not a statutory change in the
rate of interest thereafter to accrue on the judgment can be
regarded as a deprivation of property, the adjudication of the
plaintiff's claims by the courts of his own State must be admitted to be due process of law. Nor are we authorized by'
the judiciary act to review- this judgment of the state court,
because this judgment refuses to give effect to a valid contract
or-because such judgment in its effect impairs the obligation
.o'f 'a. contract. If we did, every case decided ii the state
courts could be brought here, when the party setting up a

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Dssenting Opinion: Harlan, Field, Brewer, JJ.

contract alleged that the court took a different view of its
obligation from that which he held. -Enoxv. Exchange Bank,
12 Wall. 379, 383.
The result of these views is, that we find no error in the
record, and that the judgment of the N~ew York Court of
Appeals is acdordingly
.A4ffirmed.
.Vn. JUsTICE HARLAN, with whom concurred Mn . JUsTIcE
FIELD and MR. JursTIcE BREwER,dissenting.
.In an action brought in the Supreme Court of Kew York
by John St Prouty against the Lake Shore and Michigan
Southern Railway Company and others to compel the specific
performance of a certain contract, it was adjudged, January
26, 1878, that the company pay the plaintiff out of its net
earnings $5.3,184.88, "together with interest thereonfon the
entry-of said judgmeAt." It was also adjudged that if the
company,'witbin a time specified, failed to pay to the plain'tiff the above principal sum "and such interest," the plaintiff
might have execution therefor against the defendant. Judgment was Also entered in plaintiff's favor for $1437.73 for his
costs and allowance in. the action.
By the statutes of lew York, in force when this judgment
wag rendered,* seven per cent was the legal rate of interest.
It was provided that "every judgment shall bear interest
from the time of perfecting the same," that is, "from the time
when it is entered." Laws of 1844, c. 321; Rev. Stats. N. Y.
Pt. II, c. 4, tit. 3, p. 771, lst" ed. ; Laws of 1877, c. 417, pp.
:468, 477. It was also provided that "whenever a judgment
shall be. rendered and. execution shall be issued thereon, it
shall be lawful to direct, upon such execution, the collection
of interest upon the amoibft recovered, from the time of recovering the same until such amounl 5e paid."
Execution was issued on the above judgment, and, by written endorsement upon it, the sheriff was directed to collect
thereon- $54,622.61 (which was the aggregate amount, principal aid costs, adjudged in favor of the plaintiff,) with interest at seyen per cent from the date of the judgment. Was

MORLEY v. LAKE SHORE RAILWAY CO.

173

Dissenting Opinion:- Harlau, Field, Brewer, JJ.

it competent for the legislature, by the act of 1879, which
took effect January 1, 1880, to reduce to six per cent the
interest collectible, after its yassage, on the above judgment?
I think it was not, and, therefore, dissent from the opinion
and judgment of the court.
It may be conceded, for the purposes of this case, that a
judgment, into which is merged a contract that does not itself
provide for interest, will bear interest as may be prescribed by
the statute in force when the judgment is entered, whatever
may have been the rate of interest upon judgments at the
time such contract was made. But it does not follow, when
interest is given by a judgment in conformity with the statutes in force when it is rendered, that the right thus acquired
can be affected or taken away by subsequent legislation. The
difficulty is not met by saying that the allowance of interest
upon a judgment is wholly within legislative discretion, and
not a matter of agreement between the parties. Rights may
be acquired by legislation that cannot be taken away by
subsequent enactments. When the judgment in question was
rendered the plaintiff was'entitled, by statute, to require the
collection of interest upon the amount recovered, from the
time of the recovery "until such amount be paid." And that
right was asserted in the mode prescribed, when the plaintiff
by his endorsement on the execution 'required the sheriff to
collect the amount adjudged with seven per cent interest till
paid. Although the contract upon which the judgment was
based did not, in terms, provide for interest upon any judgment rendered for its specific performance, it was necessarily
implied, in such contract, that the party suing for a breach of
it, or suing to compel its specific performance, should receive,
from the other party, the amount judicially ascertained to be
due, with such interest, if any, as the law allowed, and as the
court legally awarded, at the time judgment might be entered. Indeed, it is an implied condition of every agreement
that the party failing to comply with its terms shall be liable
to the party injured in such sum as the law will give him at
the time the default is adjudged.
21r. Justice Story says : "Express contracts are, wl er 3 the

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Field, Brewer, JJ.

terms of the agreement are openly avowed and uttered at the
time of the making of it. Implied contracts are such as reason
and justice dictate from the nature of the transaction, and
which, therefore, the law presumes that every man undertakes
to perform. The Constitution makes no distinction between
the one class of contracts and the other. It then equally embraces and applies to both. Indeed, as by far the largest class
of contracts in civil society, in the ordinary transactions of
life, are implied, there would be very little object in securing
the inviolability of express contracts if those which are implied
might be impaired by state legislation. The Constitution is
not chargeable with such folly or inconsistency." 2 Story,
Const. ยง 1377. The principle was applied in .Fisk v. J fferson
Police Jury, 116 U. S. 131, 134, where this court, speaking
by Justice IMiller, said : "The vice of the argument of the
Supreme Court of Louisiana is in limiting the protecting
power of the constitutional provision against impairing the
obligation of contracts to express contracts, to specific agreements, and in rejecting -that much larger class in which one
party having delivered property, paid money, rendered service,
or suffered loss at the request of or for the use of another, the
law completes the contract by implying an obligation on the
part of the latter to make compensation. This obligation can
no more be impaired by a law of the State than that arising
on a promissory note."
This principle was illustrated in another case in this court.
I allude to XcCracken v. Hczyward, 2 How. 608, 613. The
question there was as to the validity of a statute of Illinois,
prohibiting property from being sold on execution for less
than two-thirds of the valuation made by appraisers, pursuant
to the directions contained in the law. That statute was held
to impair the obligation of contracts made before its passage,
and to be inoperative upon executions issuing on judgments
founded on such contracts. This court said: "The obligation
of the contract between the parties in this case was to perform
the promises and undertakings contained therein; the right of
the plaintiff was to damages for the breach thereof, to bring
suit and obtain a judgment, to take out and prosecute an exe-

MORLEY v. LAKE SHORE RAILWg*Y CO.

175

Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Field, Brewer, JJ.

cution against the defendant till the judkment was satisfied,
pursuant to the existing laws of Illinois. These laws giving
these rights were as perfectly binding on the defendant, ahd
as much a part of the contract, as if they had. been set forth
in its stipulations in the very words of the law telating to
judgments and executions. If the defendant had made such
an agreement as to authorize a sale of his property, which
should be levied on by the sheriff, for such price as should
be bid for it at a fair public sale on reasonable notice, it
would have conferred a right on the plaintiff which the Constitution made inviolable; and it can make no difference
whether such right is conferred by the terms or law of the
contract."
A case in point is Cox v. failatt, 36 N. J. Law, (I Vroom,)
389. The principal question there, as stated by the court,
was, "whether after a judgment has been obtained, which
carries a certain rate of interest under the then existing law,
a change of that law by a subsequent statute, increasing or
diminishing th6 former rate of interest, will affect the amount
that can be collected under execution upon such judgment."
The court said: "The effect of a judgment is to fix the rights
of the parties thereto by the solemn adjudication of a court
having jurisdiction. How those rights can be affected by any
subsequent legislatiori is not apparent. This contract of the
highest authority cannot be disturbed so long as it remains
unreversed and unsatisfied. Changing the rate of interest
does not affect existing contracts or det~ts due lprior" to ,such
enactment, whether they be evidenced by statute, by judgment, or by agreement of the parties." After referring to
several cases, the court proceeds : "It will be seen that these
cases are decided on the principles above stated, that the
parties' rights are fixed by the judgment of the court, and
the judgment carries with it its incidents, equally determined
and all relating to the date of its entry." It is of no consequence, in the present case, that the judgment, although calling for interest on theamount adjudged, did not specify the
rate of iiterest. The statute, then in force, fixed the rate,
and, as said in Amis v. Smith, 16 Pet. 303, 311, interest upon

OCTOBER TERTNM, 1892.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Field, Brewer, T3.

a judgment, secured by positive law, is "as much a part of
the judgment as if expressed in it."
It seems to me that the law made it a part of the contract
upon which Prouty's judgment was founded, that for aiy
breach of it, or for any failure to perform it b the other
party, he should be entitled to sue and to have judgment for
such sum, whether principal or interest, as the law, at the
time of judgment, entitled him to demand. The statute in
question took away his right to receive a part of the amount
which a court, having full jurisdiction of the subject-matter
and of the parties, adjudged to be due him, and, therefore,
impaired the obligation of the contract.
If the statute in question is constitutional, then it was competent for the legislature, not simply to reduce the interest
upon unsatisfied judgments previously rendered, but to take
away the right to all interest after its passage. Indeed, I do
not see why, under the reasoning of the court, the legislature
might not, after the judgment was rendered, have forbidden
the collection of any interest whatever upon it. If it be said
that the right to interest, at seven per cent, had become established, up to the passage of the last act, and could not be
affected by its provisions, with equal force it could be said
that the right to interest from the entry of the judgment,
until the payment of the principal, was established by the
judgment. N~or do I see why, under the principles of the
opinion, it was not competent for the legislature to have
increased-the rate of interest, and thus compelled the defendant to pay more than it was bound to pay when the judgment was rendered.
Look at the question in another aspect. Suppose, by the
law in force when a judgment is rendered, the plaintiff is
entitled to execution upon it. If the legislature, subsequently,
for the purpose of favoring debtors requires the return of' all
outstanding executions, and forbids any execution upon judgments or decrees for money, to be issued for twelve months,
when the law, at the date of the judgment, authorized an
execution to be issued in ten days after judgment, could not
such legislation, under the principles of the decision in this

MORLEY v. LAKE SHORE RAILWAY CO.

177

Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Field, Brewer, JJ.

case, be sustained as not impairing the obligations of contracts? Those who would seek to sustain legislation of that
character need only say that, as the right to execution upon a
judgment for money was not given by the agreement of the
parties, but by the statute regulating executions,. it was within
legislative discretion to modify the law in force when the
judgment was rendered, in respect to the mode of enforcing
the judgment. I do not think that such an argument would
be heeded. Yet, I take leave to say, with all respect for the
opinions of others, that it ought to prevail, in the case supposed, if it be true, as is now held, that it is competent for the
legislature, consistently with the contract clause of the Constitution, to declare that a party, adjudged by a court of
competent jurisdiction, in a case ex coniractu,to pay a given
sum with interest until paid, at the rate then established,
shall not be required to perform that judgment in all of
its parts, but may go acquitted by paying less interest than
that so fixed both by the existing law and by the judgment.
There is still another view of the case which, in my opinion,
is conclusive against that taken by the court. If the rights of
the parties as established by the judgment were not protected
by the clause of the Constitution forbidding the passage .of
State laws impairing the obligations -of contracts, was not
the right of Prouty to collect the sum, principal and interest,
awarded him by the judgment, a right of property, of which
he could not be deprived by legislative enactment? Qould
the legislature have taken from him the right to collect the
principal sum found to -be due from the railroad company?
Clearly not, if any effect whatever is to be given to that clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment declaring that no State shall
deprive any person of property without due process of law.
But if the judgment, as respects the principal sum, was property of which. Prouty could not be arbitrarily deprived, why
is not the interest which the judgment, in conformity with
law, awarded to him, equally property, and entitled to like
protection? In -Louisianav. Mayor of -Yew Orleans,109 U. S.
285, 289, 291, it was held that a judgment against a municipal
VOL. CXLVI-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Field, Brewer, JJ.

corporation for damages caused by a mob was not within the
protection of the contract clause of the Constitution. But the
court conceded that such judgments, "though founded upon
claims to indemnity for unlawful acts of mobs or riotous
assemblages, are property in the sense that they are capable
of ownership and may have a pecuniary value." It, however,
held that the Fourteenth Amendment did not apply to that
case, for the irehson that, as the judgments continued an existing liability against the city, the relators could not be said to
have been deprived of them. In that case, Mr. Justice Bradley
concurred in the judgment on a special ground, namely, "that
remedies against municipal bodies for damages caused by mobs,
or other violators of law unconnected with the municipal government, are purely matters of legislative policy, depending
on positive law, which may at any time be repealed or modified, either before or after the damage has occurred, and the
repeal of which causes the remedy to cease." But he, also,
said: "An ordinary judgment of damages for a tort, rendered
against the person committing it, in favor of the person injured,
stands upon a very different footing. Such a judgment is
founded upon an absolute right, and is as much an article of
property as anything else that a party owns; and the legislature can no more violate it without due process of law than
it can any other property. To abrogate the remedy for
enforcing it, and to give no other adequate remedy in its
stead, is to deprive the owner of his property within the
meaning of the Fouteenth Amendment. The remedy for
enforcing a judgment, is the life of a judgment, just as much as
the remedy for enforcing a contract is the life of the contract.
Whilst the original Constitution protected only contracts from
being impaired by Statelaw, the Fourteenth Amendment protects every species of property alike, except such as in its
nature and origin is subject to legislative control."
In my opinion, the right which a party has by a judgment
for money-at least where the cause of action is ex contrctt'
-to collect the sum awarded thereby, with interest until paid,
at the rate then established by law, is a right of property of
which he caninot be deprived by mere legislative enactiw.:1t,

HARDEE v. WILSON.
Opinion of the Court.

even to the extent of reducing the interest collectible under
such judgment.
I am authorized by MR.
BREWER

JUSTICE FIELD and MR.
to say that they concur in this opinion.

JUSTICE

HARDEE v. WILSON.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.
No. 34. Argued November 3, 1892. -Decided

November 21, 1892.

Where a decree in equity is a joint one against all the defendants, all the
parties defendant must join in the appeal from it.
There is nothing in the facts in this case to take it out of the operation of
that general rule.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Af. William D. Harden (with whom was .MXr. Charles N.
West on the brief) for appellant.

Xfr. Thomas P. Ravenel (with whom were -.
Ruf'us E.
Lester and &r.Livingston -Yenan on the brief) for appellee.
MR. JUSTCE SHIRAS

delivered the opinion of the court.

It appears by this record that Benjamin J. Wilson filed in
the Superior Court of Washington County, in the State of
Georgia, his bill of complaint against James M. Minor, Annie
E. Minor and John L. Hardee, and that the cause was subsequently removed into the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Southern District of Georgia. In his bill the complainant charged that a certain conveyance -of land, made on
the 18th day of March, 1876, by-said James M. Minor to himself as trustee for his wife, Annie E. Minor, and a certain

