COOK v. HART.
Syllabus.

complainants had notice of this appeal, or that they refused to
join in it, the appeal was therefore dismissed. .Mason v.
United States, 136 U. S. 581, was a case where a postmaster
and the sureties on his official bond being sued jointly for a
breach of the bond, he and a part of the sureties appeared
and defended. The suit was abated as to two of the sureties,
who had died, and the other sureties made default, and judgment of default was entered against them. On the trial a
verdict was rendered for the plailltiff, whereupon judgment
was entered against the principal and all the sureties for the
amount of the verdict. The sureties who appeared sued out a
writ of error to this judgment, without joining the principal.
or the sureties who had made default. The plaintiff in error
moved to amend the writ of error by adding the omitted
parties as complainants in error, or for a severance of the
parties, and it was held that the motion must be denied and
the writ of error be dismissed. In Feibebnan v. Packard,108
U. S. 14, a writ of error was sued out by one of tw5 or more
joint defendants, without a summons and severance or equivalent proceeding, and was therefore dismissed.
The state of facts shown by the record brings the present
case within the scope of the cases above cited, and it follows
that the appeal must be
.Dismissed.

COOK v. HART.
APPEAL

FROMf THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.
No. 1067.

Argued October 31, November 1, 1892.-

Decided November 21, 1892.

Ker v. Illinois, 119 U. S. 436, and Mahon v. Justice, 127 U. S. 700, affitmed
as to the following points:
(1) That this court will not interfere to relieve persons who have been
arrested and taken by violence from the territory of one State to
that of another, where they are held under process legally issued
from the courts of the latter State;

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.
(2) That the question of the applicability of this doctrine to a particular case is as much within the province of a state court, as a
question of common law or of the law of nations, as it is of the
courts of the United States.
Ex parte Royall, 117 U. S. 241, and Ex parte Fonda, 117 U. S. 516, adhered to
as to the point that where a person is in custody under process from a
state court of original jurisdiction for an alleged offence against the laws
of that State, and it is claimed that he is restrained of his liberty in
violation of the Constitution of the United States, a Circuit Court of the
United States has a discretion whether it will discharge him in advance
of his trial in the court in which he is indicted, which discretion will be
subordinated to any special circumstances requiring immediate action.
The exercise of the power to issue writs of habeas corpus to a state court
proceeding in disregard of rights secured by the Constitution and laws
of the United States, before the question has been raised or determined
in the state court, is one which ought not to be encouraged.
In this case the court affirms the judgment of the Circuit Court refusing to
discharge on writ of habeas corpus a prisoner who had been surrendered
by the Governor of Illinois on the requisition of the Governor of Wisconsin as a fugitive from justice, but who claimed not to have been such
a fugitive, it appearing that the case was still pending in the courts of
the State of Wisconsin, and had not been tried upon its merits; and this
court further held,
(1) That no defect of jurisdiction was waived by submitting to a trial
on the merits;
(2) That comity demanded that the state courts should be appealed to in
the first instance;
(3) That a denial of his rights there would not impair his remedy in the
Federal Courts;
(4) That no special circumstances existed here such as were referred to
in Exnparte Royall, 117 U. S. 241.

THIS was an appeal from an order of the Circuit Court for
the Eastern District of Wisconsin discharging a writ of habeas
corpus, and remanding the petitioner Charles E. Cok t- the
custody of the sheriff of Dodge County, Wisbonsin 'The facts
of the case were substantially as follows:
On March 9, 1891, the governor of Wisconsin made a requisition upoff the governor of Illinois for the apprehension and
delivery of Cook, who was charged with a violation of section
4541 of the laws of Wisconsin, which provides that "any
officer, director,

manager,

or agent of any

or of any person, company, or corporation,
.
bank,
engaged in whole or in part in banking, brokerage,

COOK v. HART.
Statement of the Case.

or, any person engaged in such business in whole or in part,
who shall accept or receive on deposit or for safe keeping, or
for safe keepto loan, from any person, any money .
ing or for collection, when he knows or has good reason to
know, that such bank, company or corporation, or that such
person is unsafe or-insolvent, shall be punished," etc. Rev.
Stat. Wis. ยง 4541. The affidavits annexed to the requisition
tended to show that the petitioner Cook and one Frank Leake,
in May, 1889, opened a banking office at Juneau, in the county
of Dodge, styled the "Bank of Juneau," and entered upon and
engaged in a general banking business, with a pretended capital
of $10,000 and continued in such business, soliciting and receiving deposits up to and including June 20, 1890, when the
bank closed its doors; that during all this time Cook had the
general supervision of the business, and was the principal
owner of the bank, and all business was transacted by him
personally, or by his direction by one Richardson, acting as
his agent; that Cook frequently visited the bank, and well
knew its condition; that from January 6 to June 20, 1890,
Cook, by the inducements and pretences held out by the bank,
received deposits from the citizens of that county to the amount
of $25,000; that this was done by the express order and
direction of Cook, and such amount appeared upon the books
of the bank at the time it failed as due to its depositors; that
Cook, while receiving these deposits, drew out of the bank all
of its pretended capital stock, if any were ever put in, and
also all the deposits, except the sum of $5048 in money and
securities, which was in the bank at the time it closed; that
on June 23, 1890, Cook and Leake assigned their property for
the benefit of their creditors; that on the sixth of January,
1890, and from that time onward, Cook knew and had good
reason to know that both he and Leake and the bank were
each and all of them unsafe and insolvent; that on June 20,
1890, at about four o'clock in the afternoon, the said Cook and
Leake accepted and received a deposit in said bank from one
Herman Becker, to the amount of $175 in money; and that said
deposit was received by direction and order of the said Cook,
he knowing that said bank was unsafe and insolvent. There

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

was also annexed a complaint setting forth substantially the
same facts, and'a warrant issued by a justice of the peace for
Dodge County for the apprehension of Cook. Upon the production of this requisition, with the documents so attached,
the governor of Illinois issued his warrant for the arrest and
delivery 6f Cook to the defendant, as agent of the executive
authority of the State of Wisconsin. Cook was arrested by
the sheriff of Cook County, Illinois, and on the same day, and
while still in the custody of the sheiiff, procured a writ of
habeas corpus from the Circuit Court of Cook County to test
the legality of his arrest. That court on June 6, 1891, decided
that the arrest was legal, remanded Cook to the custody of
the sheriff, and he was thereupon -delivered to the defendant
as executive agent, and conveyed to Wisconsin, where he was
examined before the magistrate issuing the warrant, and held
to answer the charge. During the September term of the
Circuit Court of that county an information was filed against
him, charging him with the offence set out in the original
complaint. Upon his application the trial was continued to
the term of said court beginning in February, 1892. He
appeared and was arraigned at that term, pleaded not guilty,
and the trial was begun, when and during the pendency of
such trial, Cook sued out a writ of habeas corpus from the
Circuit Court of the United States, claiming that his extradition from Illinois to Wisconsin, was in violation of the Constitution and laws of the United States. It was established upon
the hearing, to 'the satisfaction of the court below, that Cook
for some years prior to the 20th day of June, 1890, and for
some years prior to his arrest upon the warrant of the executive of Illinois, had been and still was a resident of the city
of Chicago; that he made occasional visits to Wisconsin in
connection with his banking business at Juneau and elsewhere;
that he left Chicago on June 17, 1890, and went to Hartford,
in the county of Washington, State of Wisconsin, where he
spent the whole of the 18th day of June, proceeding thence
to Beaver Dam, in the county of Dodge, where he was engaged
during the whole of the 19th day of June with business not
connected with the Bank of Juneau; that early in the morn-

COOK v. HART.
Argument for Appellant.

ing of June 20 he left Beaver Dam, and made a continuous
journey to Chicago, arriving there at 2 )'clock in the afternoon; and that he did not, on the occasion of that visit to
Wisconsin, visit or pass through the village of Juneau, and
had not been there for some three weeks prior to the closing
of the bank on June 20. It was also conceded at the hearing
that the particular deposit by Herman Becker, charged in the
complaint upon which the requisition proceedings were had,
was actually made at 4 o'clock in the afternoon of June 20,
and after the petitioner's arrival in Chicago.
U1pon the hearing of the writ of /Weas co'us, the petitioner was remanded to the custody of the defendant, (49
Fed. Rep. 833,) and thereupon he appealed to this court.
Mr. Solicitor Geeral for appellant.
I. The petitioner was not at the time of the commission of
the alleged offence, the suing out of the requisition, and his
arrest and rendition thereunder, a fugitive from justice.
It is conceded that he was not in Wisconsin at the time
when the deposit of Herman Becker was received, but in the
State of Illinois, the State of his citizenship. "To be a fugitive from justice in the sense of the act of Congress regulating
the subject under consideration, it is not necessary that the
party charged should have left the State in which the crime
is alleged to have been committed, .after an indictment found,
or for the purpose of avoiding a prosecution anticipated or
begun, but simply that, having within a State committed that
which by its laws constitutes a crime, when he is sought to be
subjected to its criminal process to answer for his offence, he
has left its jurisdiction and is found within the territory of
another." Roberts v. Reilly, 116 U. S. 80, 97.
This court also held that the fugitive was entitled under
the act of Congress, "to insist upon proof that he was
within the demanding State at the time he is alleged to have
committed the crime charged, and subsequently withdrew
from her jurisdiction so that he could not be reached by her
criminal process." Exparte Reggel, 114 U. S. 642, 651.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument for Appellant.

It was held in the following cases that actual personal pres'ence in the demanding State at or after the commission of
the crime is essential to make one a "fugitive from justice:"
Ex paite Joseyk
tmith,
8 McLean, 121; Jones v. leonard,'50
Iowa, 106; Tfieox v. Ziolze, 34 Ohio State, 520; In e .tohr,
73 Alabama., 5M; Tennessee v. Jackson, 36 Fed. IRep. 258;
Hyartman v. Aveline, 63 Indiana, 344.
IL Unless a fugitive from justice, such arrest and detention was without jurisdiction, unauthorized and void, and
contrary to the rights guaranteed the petitioner under the
Constitution of the United States, and he should be released
by this court on habeas copus.
Tho Supreme Court of the United States recognizes that
this is a personal righti, and not alone a right of the State
where the accused is found. 1Ex _parte Peggel, 114 U. S.642,
651. See also United States v 2Rauscher, 119 U.. S. 407;
-Holmes v. Jennison, 14 Pet. 540 People v. Curtis, 50 N. Y.
321.
The result of all the' authorities is that there can be no
extradition or interstate rendition, xcept as authorized by
the Constitution and laws of the United States. The States
can do nothing except under that autlority, and the citizen
or the fugitive is exempt, unless his conduct has brought him
within its terms.
No one would claim that the Governor of Illinois could
send any citizen of that State, demanded by the Governor of
Wisconsin, to the latter State for trial. On the other hand,
if such action can only be taken under the conditions prescribed by the Constitution and by the laws of the United
States, a case not within those conditions is beyond the jurisdiction of the governors. It requires no argument to demonstrate that itisnot inconformity with our laws or the spirit
of our Constitution to permit the citiien's liberty to be thus
invaded and him to be taken to a foreign State, because a
ministerial officer, on ex .parteaffidavits, has decided these
jurisdictional facts against him (which has not been dane in
"this case, the warrant simply reciting that he, Cook, is "ripreBented to be a fugitive from justice").

COOK v. HART.
Opinion of the Court.

All writers are practically agreed that flight from justice is
jurisdictional. If jurisdictional, why should not the courts
investigate upon habeas cortus ? If a court with a jury were
proceeding without jurisdiction, the right to so investigate
could not be denied. The right is asserted to exist even
after conviction in ex parte 1?oyall, ubi" supra, a proceeding
under an alleged unconstitutional act-that is, a proceeding
without jurisdiction. "If it exists as the right of the prisoner
as against courts and juries, it certainly exists against the
mere agent of the State or the governor authorizing his act.
III. The right to be released is as available after removal
to the demanding State as before, if the conditions prescribed
by the. Constitution and laws of Congress did not exist at the
date of the crime or extradition proceedings.
Mr. W. C. Williams (with whom was Mr. P. G. 1ewis on
the brief) for appellee.
MR. JUSTIcE BiOWN, after stating the oase as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.

Petitioner claims his discharge upon the ground that he is
accused of having illegally received a deposit in his bank at'
Juneau, when in fact he had not been in Juneau within three
weeks before the deposit was received, and that, at the time
it was received, which was about 4 o'clock in the afternoon of
June 20, 1890, he was in Illinois, and had been in that State
for more than two hours before the deposit was received. He
had in fact left Beaver Dam, Wisconsin, at an early hour that
day, and travelled continuously to Chicago, not stopping "at
Juneau, and having no actual knowledge of the illegal depo it
charged. Upon this state of facts petitioner insists'that his
journey from Wisconsin to Illinois was not a "fleeing from
justice" within the meaning of Article 4, section 2, of the
Constitution ; that it is essential to the jurisdiction of the trial
court that he should have been a fugitive from justice; and
hence that the Circuit Court of Dodge County was without
authority to try him for the offence charged, and he should,

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

therefore, be relieved from its custody upon this writ of habeas
corpus.
We regard this case as controlled in all its -essential features
by those of RYer v. Illinois, 119 U. S. 436, and J-ahoa v.
Justice, 127 U. S. 700. The former case arose upon a writ of
error to the Supreme Court of Illinois. The petitioner had
pleaded, in abatement to an indictment for larceny in the
criminal court of Cook County, that he had been kidnapped
from the city of Lima, in Peru, forcibly placed on .board a
vessel of the United States in the harbor of Callao, carried to
San Francisco, and sent from there to Illinois upon a requisition made upon the Governor of California. After disposing
of the point that he had not been deprived of his liberty without "due process of law," the court intimated, in reply to an
objection that the petitioner was not a fugitive from justice in
the State of California, that "when the governor of one State
voluntarily surrenders a fugitive from the justice of another
State to answer for his alleged offences, it is hardly a proper
subject of inquiry on the trial of the case to examine into the
details of the proceedings by which the demand was made by
the one State and the manner in which it was responded to
by the other." p. 441. The court further held that the petitioner had not acquired by his residence in Peru a right of
asylum there, a right to be free from molestation for the
crime committed in Illinois, or a right that he should only be
removed thereto in accordance with the provisions of the
treaty of extradition; and winds up the opinion by observing
that "the question of how far his forcible seizure in another
country, and transfer by violence, force or fraud to this
country, could be made available to resist trial in the State
court, for the offence now charged upon him, is one which we
do not feel called upon to decide, for in that transaction we
do not see that the Constitution, or laws or treaties of thQ
United States guarantee him any protection. There are
authorities of the highest respectability which hold that such
forcible abduction is no sufficient reason why the party should
not answer when brought within the jurisdiction of the court
which has the right to try him for such an offence. .

COOK v. HART.

191

Opinion of the Court.

However this may be, the decision of that question is as much
within the province of the State court as a question of common law, or of the law of nations, of which that court is
bound .to take notice, as it is of the courts of the United
States." p. 444.
The case of Mahon v. Justice, 127 U. S.700, arose upon an
application of the Governor of West Virginia to the District
Court of the United States for the District of Kentucky, for
the release of Mahon upon a writ of habeas corpus, upon the
ground that he had been, while residing in West Virginia,
and in violation of her laws, without warrant or other legal
process, arrested by a body of armed men from Kentucky,
and, by force and against his will, carried out of the State to
answer to a charge of murder in the State of Kentucky. As
stated in the opinion of the court, the governor "proceeded
upon the theory that it was the duty of the United States to
secure the inviolability of the territory of the State from
the lawless invasion of persons from other States, and when
parties had been forcibly taken from her territory and jurisdiction to afford the means of compelling their return." p. 704.
This court held that, while the accused had the right while in
West Virginia of insisting that he should not be surrendered
to the Governor of Kentucky, except in pursuance of the acts
of Congress, and was entitled to release from any arrest in
that State not made in accordance with them, yet that as he
had been subsequently arrested in Kentucky under the writs
issued under the indictments against him, the question was
not as to the validity of the arrest in West Virginia, but as
to the legality of his detention in Kentucky. "The drly
question, therefore," said the court, "presented for our determination is whether a person indicted for a felony in oe
State, forcibly abducted from another State and brought to
the State where he was indicted by parties acting without
warrant or authority of law, is entitled under the Constitution
or laws of the United States to release from detention under
the indictment by reason of such forcible and unlawful abduction." p. 706. After a full review of all the prior authorities
upon the. point, the court came to the conclusion that the

OCTOBER

TERM, 1892.

Opinion of the Court.

jurisdiction of the court of the State in which the indictnvent
was found was not impaired by the manner in which the
accused was brought before it. "There is, indeed," said the
court, "an entire concurrence of opinion as to the ground
upon which a release of the appellant in the present case is
asked, namely, that his forcible abduction from another State,
and conveyance within the jurisdiction of the court holding"
him, is no objection to his detention and trial for the offence
charged. They all proceed upon the obvious ground that the
offender against the law of the State is not relieved from
liability because of personal injuries received from private
parties, or because of indignities committed against another
State." p. 712.
There was a vacancy in the office of Chief Justice at the
time, and two members of the court (Mr. Justice Bradley and
Mr. Justice Harlan) dissented upon the ground that the Constitution had provided a peaceful remedy for the surrender
of persons charged with crime; that this clearly implied that
there should be no resort to force for this purpose; that the
cases upon which the court relied had arisen where a criminal
had been seized in one country and forcibly taken to another
for trial, in the absence of any international treaty of extradition; and that as the application in that case was made by
the governor of the State whose territory had been lawlessly
invaded, he was entitled to a redelivery of the person charged.
These cases may be considered as establishing two propositions: 1. That this court will not interfere to relieve persons
who have been arrested and taken by violence from the territory of one State to that of another, where they are held
under process legally issued from the courts of the latter State.
2. That the question of the applicability of this doctrine to a
particular case is as much within the province of a State court,
as a question of common law or of the law of nations, as it is
of the courts of the United States.
An attempt is made to distinguish the case under consideration from the two above cited, in the fact that those were
cases of kidnapping by third parties, by means of which the
accused were brought within the jurisdiction of the trial State,

COOK v. HART.
Opinion of the Court.

and the State had not acted, as here, under legal process, or
been in any way a party to the proceedings; that they were
cases of tort for which the injured parties could sue the tortfeasors, while in the case under consideration the action is
under and by virtue of an act of Congress, and hence the party
can ask this court to inquire whether the power thus invoked
was properly exercised. The distinction between cases of kidnapping by the violence of unauthorized persons without the
semblance of legal action, and those wherein the extradition is
conducted under the forms of law, but the governor of the surrendering State has mistaken his dtl.- and delivered up one,
who was not in fact a fugitive from justice, is one which we
do not deem it necessary to consider at this time. We have
no doubt that the governor upon whom the demand is made
must determine for himself, in the first instance, at least,
whether the party charged is in fact a fugitive from justice,
(Ex parte Reggel, 114 U. S. 642 ; Roberts v. Reilly, 116 U. S.
80,) but whether his decision thereon be final is a question
proper to be determined by the courts of that State. A proceeding of that kind was undertaken in this case when Cook
applied to the State Circuit Court of Chicago to obtain a writ
of habeas corpus to test the legality of his arrest. Upon the
hearing of this writ the court decided the arrest to be legal,
and remanded Cook to the custody of the sheriff, by whom he
was delivered to the defendant as executive agent of the State
of Wisconsin. Cook acquiesced in this disposition of the case,
and made no attempt to obtain a review of the judgment in a
superior court. Long after his arrival in Wisconsin, however,
and after the trial of his case had begun, he made this appication to the Circuit Court of the United States for that distifict
upon the ground he had originally urged, namely,, that he w.as
not a fugitive from justice within the meaning of the Constitution and laws of the United States. That court decided
against him, holding that he had been properly surrendered.
It is proper to observe in this connection that, assuming the
question of flight to be jurisdictional, if that question be raised
before the executive or the courts of the surrendering State, it
is presented in a somewhat different aspect after the accused
-YOL. CXLVI-18

OCTOBER TEIRM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

has been delivered over to the agent of the demanding State,
and has actually entered the territory of that State, and is
held under the process of its courts. Phe authorities above
cited, if applicable to cases of interstate extradition, where the
forms of law have been observed, doubtless tend to support
the theory that the executive warrant has spent its force when
the accused has been delivered to the demanding State; that
it is too late for him to object even to jurisdictional defects in
his surrender, and that he is rightfully held under the process
of the demanding State. In fact, it is said by Mr. Justice
Miller in lITer v. Illinois, p. 441, that "the case does not stand
where the party is in court and required to plead- to an indictment, as it would have stood upop a writ of habeas corpas in
California." Some reasons are, however, suggested for holding that, if he were not in fact a fugitive from justice and
entitled to be relieved upon that ground by the courts of the
surrendering State, he ought not to be deprived of that right
by a forced deportation from its territory before he could
have an opportunity of suing out a writ of habeas corpus.
That question, however, does not necessarily arise in this case,
since the record before us shows that he did sue out such writ
before the criminal court of Cook County, and acquiesced in
its decision remanding him to the custody of the officer.
As the defence in this case is claimed to be jurisdictional,
and, in any aspect, is equally available in the State as in the
Federal courts, we do not feel called upon at this time to consider it or to review the propriety of the decision of the court
below. We adhere to the views expressed in Ex)arte Royall,
117 U. S. 24:1, and Exparte Fonda, 117 U. S. 516, that, where
a person is in custody under process from a state court of original jurisdiction for an alleged offence against the laws of that
State, and it is claimed that he is restrained of his liberty in violation of the Constitution of the United States, the Circuit Court
of the United States has a discretion whether it will discharge
him in advance of his trial in the court in which he is indicted,
although this discretion will be subordinated to any special
circumstances requiring innediate action." While the Federal
courts have the power and, may discharge the accused in ad-

COOK v. HART.

195

Opinion of the Court.

vance of his trial, if he is restrained of his liberty in violation
of the Federal Constitution or laws, they are not bound to
exercise such power even after a State court has finally acted
upon the case, but may, in their discretion, require the accused
to sue out his writ of error from the highest court of the State,
or even from the Supreme Court of the United States. As
was said in R-ob v. Connolly, 111 U. S. 624, 637: "Upon the
state courts, equally with the courts of the Union, rests the
obligation to guard, enforce and. protect every right granted
or secured by the Constitution of the United States and the
laws made in pursuance thereof, whenever those rights are
involved in any suit or proceeding before them." We are
unable to see in this case any such special circumstances as
were suggested in the case of Euaxrte 1?oyaU as rendering it
proper for a Federal court to interpose before the trial of the
case in the state court. While' the power to issue writs of
habeas corpus to state courts which are proceeding in disregard of rights secured by the Constitution and laws of the
United States may exist, the practice of exercising such power
before the question has been raised or determined in the state
court is one which ought not to be encouraged. The party
charged waives no defect of jurisdiction by submitting to a
trial of his case upon the merits, and we think that comity
demands that the state courts, under whose process he is held,
and which are equally with the Federal courts charged with
the duty of protecting the accused in the enjoyment of his constitutional rights, should be appealed to in the first instance.
Should such rights be denied, his remedy in the Federal court
will remain unimpaired. So far from there being special
circumstances in this case to show that the Federal court
ought to interfere, the fact that, with ample opportunity to do
so, he did not apply for this writ until after the jury had been
sworn and his trial begun in the state court, is of itself a
special circumstance to indicate that the Federal court should
not interpose at this time.
The judgment of the court below refusing the discharge, is
therefore,
Affirmed.

