WILMINGTON & WELDON RA.ILROAD v. ALSBROOK. 279.
Syllabus.

cution. Rex v. Harris,1 Ld. Raym. 482; Rex v. Rogers, 3
Burrow, 1809, 1812; Rex v. Wyatt, Russ. & Ry. 230; _Exparte
foward, 17 N. H. 545; State -. Kitchens, 2 Hill (S. C.) 612;
Bland v. State, 2 Carter (2 Indiana), 608; _Lowenberg v. People,
27 N. Y. 336; State v. Oscar, 13 La. Ann. 297; State v. Cardwell, 95 N. Car. 643; E'xparte Nixon, 2 S. Car. 4.
The applicationfor the writs must be denied.

WILMINGTON AND WELDON RAILROAD

COM-

PAINY 'v. ALSBROOK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA.
lNo. 1074. Argued November 17, 1892.- Decided Ddcember 5, 1892.
The general rule that a valid grant to a corporation, by a statute of a State,
of the right of exemption from state taxation, given without reservation.
of the right of appeal, is a contract between the State and the corporation, protected by the Constitution of the United States against state
legislative impairment, is not qualified by Henderson Bridge Co. v. Henderson City, 141 U. S. 679; nor by St. Paul, Minneapolis &c. Railway v.
Todd County, 142 U. S. 282.
The surrender of the power of taxation by a State cannot be left to inference or conceded in the presence of doubt., and when the language used
admits of reasonable contention, the conclusion is inevitable in fhror of
the reservation of the power.
The exemption from taxation conferred upon the Wilmington & Raleigh
Railroad Company by the act of January 3, 1834, incorporating it, was
not conferred by that act upon the branch roads which the company was
thereby authorized to construct.
IExemption from taxation may or may not be a "privilege" within the sense
in which that word is used in a statute; and in the act of North Carolina
referred to, the word " privileges" does not.include such exemption.
The portion of the Wilmington and Weldon Railroad which lies between
Halifax and Weldon, having been constructed by the Halifax & Weldon
'Railroad Company, and not under the charter of the Wilmington &
Raleigh Railroad Company, is not exempt from state taxation.
The proceedings in Wilminqton Railroadv. Reid,. 13 Wall. 264, and in the
same case in the state courts of North Carolina, do not operate as an
estoppel so far as the road from Halifax to Weldon is concerned, nor as
controlling authority in the premises.

OCTOBER TER.f, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

THis was an action brought in the Superior Court of Ilalifax County, North Carolina, by the Wilmington and Weldon
Railroad Company, to restrain the sheriff of that county from
collecting certain taxes assessed on so much of a branch road
of the plaintiff, known as the Scotland Neck branch, as lay
therein, and on that part of the plaintiff's road which formerly
constituted the -Halifax and Weldon Railroad, and the Yolling
stock used with said roads. The plaintiff was incorporated
under an act of the general assembly of North Carolina, approved January 3, 1834, entitled "An act to incorporate the
,ilmingtdn and Raleigh Railroad Company." 2 Rev. Stats.
N. Car. (1837), 335, 347. By the first section of this act,
commissioners were designated Ifor the purpose of receiving
subscriptions to an amount not exceeding eight hundred thousand dollars, in shares of one hundred dollars each, to constitute a joint capital stock, for the purpose of effecting a communication by a railroad, from some point within the town of
Wilmington, or in the immediate neighborhood of the said
town, to the city of Raleigh, or in the immediate neighborhood
of the said city, the route of which road shall be determined
on by the company hereby incorporated." The first twenty
sections of the act relate to the main line thus described.
The nineteenth section is as follows:
"That it shall and may be lawful for the said president and
directors to determine from time to time what instalments
shall be paid on the stock subscribed; to purchase with the
funds of the company, and place on the said railroad constructed by them, all machines, wagons, vehicles, carriages
and teams of any description whatsoever, which may be
deemed necessary and proper for the purposes of transportation; and all the property purchased by the said president
and directori, and that which may be given to the company,
and the works constructed under the authority of this act, and
all profits accruing on the said works, and the said property
shall be vested in the respective shareholders of the company,
and their successors and assigns forever, in proportion to their
respective shares; and the shares sLall be deemed personal
property, and the property of said company; and the shares

WILMINGTON & WELDON RAILROAD v. ALSBROOK. 281
Statement of the Case.

therein shall be exempt from any public charge or tax whatsoever."
The twenty-first, twenty-second, twenty-third, and twentyfifth sections read thus :
"SEC. 21. That the stockholders in general meeting, may,
if they think fit, resolve to construct a branch or branches to
the main road, to be connected with the main road at such
point or points as they may determine on, and to lead in such
direction, and to such a point or points as they may think
best; and in order that they may do so, the said stockholders
are fully authorized to cause books to be opened for subscriptiohs to the said lateral road or branch of the main road, and
the subscribers for stock shall be subject to all the rules previously made by the company, and, become members of the
company with this exception only, viz. : that the stock subscribed by them shall be faithfully and honestly applied to
the construction of that branch of the road for which they
subscribed it; but the subscribers for the main road and the
branches shall constitute but one company; and their rights
of property and estate shall *be in common, and not separate:
P'ovided,however, That the whole capital of subscribed stock
shall not exceed one million of dollars.
"S1Ec. 22. That all the powers, rights and privileges conferred by the preceding sections upon the said company, in
respect to the main road, and the lands through which it may
pass, are hereby declared to extend in every respect to the
said company, and the president and directors thereof, in the
laying out, in the construction, and in the use and preservation of said lateral or branch roads.
" SEC. 23. That it shall and may be lawful for the said
company to construct a branch to the main road as aforesaid,
under the restrictions aforesaid, so soon as the main road has
reached the point at which the branch road. isrifitended to be
joined with the main road; but they -shall not, under any pretence whatever, apply the funds of the company to the construction of a lateral or branch road, until the main road is
completed, except they be subscriptions specifically made for
the branch or lateral road."

-OCTOBER TERMS

1892.

Statement of the Case.

"SEC. 25. That where a branch or lateral road to the main
road is shorter than twenty miles, no other person or company
shall be authorized and empowered to build a railroad from
any point near its termination, so as to intersect with this
main road in order to injure this company."
Section 24 refers to the right to connect or intersect with
"said railroad or any of its branches," and these five sections,
out of thirty-eight in all, relate to branch roads.
.On December 15, 1835, an act of the general assembly was
approved, entitled "An act to amend an act passed in the
year one thousand eight hundred and thirty-three, entitled
'An act to incorporate the Wilmington and Raleigh Railroad
Company.'"
2 Rev. Stats. N. Car., (1837,) p. 347. This act
authorized the capital stock of the company to be increased to
any sum not exceeding $1,500,000, and provided "that the
stockholders of said company shall and may be at liberty to
run the main road from some point within or near the town
of Wilmington' to some point in the city of Raleigh, or in the
immediate neighborhood thereof, or from Wilmington, or near
it as aforesaid to some point at or near the river Roanoke in
this State, at the election of said stockholders, with the view
of connecting with the Petersburg and Norfolk railroads;"
"that the said company may be at liberty to lay off and construct any lateral road, under the rules and regulations, provided in the aforesaid act, before or after they have completed the main railroad aforesaid ;" "that it shall and may
be lawful for the said company to purchase, own and possess
steamboats, and other vessels to ply and sail from the port of
Wilmington to Charleston, or elsewhere; and to .tnhe and
receive for the use of said company, over and besides the
profits allowed in the said original act, such sums of money
or other property for freight, passengers or other accommodation on said boats and vessels, as they may be able to make
by contracts with their customers, and according' to such rates
as they may from time to time establish;" and enlarged the
time for commencing the-road to three years from January 1,
1~u.
At the session of 1833 of the general assembly an act was

'WILMINGTON & WELDON RAILROAD v. ALSBROOK. 283
Statement of the Case.

passed, entitled "An act to incorporate the Halifax and Weldon
Railroad Company." 2 Rev. Stats. N. Car., (1837,) 325, 3347.
This act contained no exemption from taxation, and was subject to be altered, amended or modified by future legislatures.
Under its provisions, the Halifax and Weldon Railroad Company procured its right of way, and-laid out and constructed the
road-bed and road from Weldon to Halifax, a distance of some
eight miles, and entirely in the county of Halifax. The corporation had no rolling stock, but permitted the Portsmouth Railroad
Company during the year 1836 to run its cars over its roadbed and track. In 1836 an act was passed, entitled " An act
empowering the Halifax and Weldon Railroad Company to
subscribe their stock to the Wilmington and Raleigh Railroad
Company." 2 Rev. Stats. N. Car., (1837,) 334, 335. Pursuant to the provisions of this act the Halifax and Weldon Railroad Company and the Wilmington and Raleigh Railroad
Company entered into an agreement, February 14, 1837, which
agreement was in all respects executed and carried into effect
by those corporations. The act authorized the stockholders
of the Halifax Company to subscribe its stock on the books of
the Wilmington Company, and sections two and three were as
follows:
"SEc. 2. Upon the subscription of the stock held by the
stockholders in the Halifax and Weldon Railroad Company,
in the books of the Wilmington and Raleigh Railroad Company, all the property, real and personal, owned and held by
the Halifax and Weldon Railroad Company, shall vest in and
be owned and possessed by the Wilmington and Raleigh Railroad Company aforesaid, and be owned and held and possessed
by the said company in the same manner that all the other
property, real and personal, which has been acquired by the
said company is owned, held and possessed; and the road
which may have been built, or partly built, by the Halifax
and Weldon Railroad Company, shall thenceforward be deemed
to all intents, as well criminal as civil, a part of-the Wilmington and Raleigh Road.
"Se. 3. So soon as the subscription hereby authorized
shall have been made, all the rights and privileges acquired

OCTOBER TERIM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

under the before recited act of assembly, passed in the year
one thousand eight hundred and thirty-three, entitled 'An act
to incorporate the Halifax and Weldon Railroad Company,'
shall cease and the corporate existence of said company be
determined."
The terms of the agreement between the two companies
were that the Wilmington Company should receive the assets
of the Halifax Company and pay its debts, and the stockholders in the Halifax Company should be entitled to their
respective number of shares of stock in the Wilmington
Company.
The complaint alleged that "in the year 1840, the plaintiff
completed the construction of its main road from the town
of Wilmington through the town of Halifax to the town of
Weldon on the Roanoke River, in said State, and'thereby
connected its main line with the Portsmouth and Norfolk
Railroad and has had the same in use or operation ever since."
The defendant denied the averment as made, and said that the
part of the road between Halifax and Weldon was built by
the Halifax Company, under its charter, and acquired by the
plaintiff in 1837 in pursuance of the act of 1836. The plaintiff in reply averred that the Halifax road was only partially
completed, and that the Halifax Company owned no rolling
stock or other property of any description except its road-bed
and right of way, and referred to the agreement of February,
1837. Plaintiff also, for further reply, set up the proceedings
and judgment in an action commenced by plaintiff in 1869 in
the Superior Court of Halifax County against the sheriff of
that county, to enjoin the sale of property for taxes, partly
assessed, as alleged, upon a portion of the road-bed and right
of way.acquired from the Halifax Company, and pleaded the
same as an estoppel. It appeared that the agreement between
the two companies above referred to was not registered as
required by the act of 1836, but that this was subsequently
done under an act approved February 5, 1875. It further
appeared that after the execution of the agreement of February 14, 1837, the Halifax Company ceased to exercise any
corporate acts or maintain any corporate existence or organi-

WILMINGTON & WELDON RAILROAD v. ALSBROOK. 285
Statement of the Case.

zation, and its road-bed, track and right of way passed under
the control of the Wilmington Company, and has ever since
been under its control as a pqrt of its main line of road.
Another act amending the charter was approved January 24,
1851, which authorized the capital stock to be increased to
$2,500,000, and the issue of scrip to the extent of the increase.
By the third section it was provided: "That said scrip shall
represent shares in the capital stock of said company as though
the said shares had been originally subscribed for by the holders thereof; and the said holders of the scrip thus issued under
the provisions of this act shall be members of the said corporation, with the same privileges, rights, and immunities, and
subject to the same rules and regulations as the original stockholders of said company." By an act approved February 15,
1855, the name of the Wilmington and Raleigh Railroad
Company was changed to the name of the Wilmington and
Weldon Railroad Company. At the session of 1867 of the
General Assembly, an act was passed amending the act incorporating the Wilmington Company, which was duly accepted
by its stockholders November 13, 1867. This act provided for
the opening of books for subscriptions, to any amount deemed
necessary, but not to exceed $25,000 per mile, for the construction of any branch to the main line, which stock was to
be separate and independenf of the stock of the main road,,
and to be applied exclusively to the branch road for which it
was subscribed.
The case came on in the Superior Court before Connor, J.,
who, from the pleadings, affidavits and exhibits, made and
filed findings, in substance as heretofore stated, and further
therein found that during the year 1882, the plaintiff began
6nd completed a branch road connecting with its main roal
at a point near the town of Halifax, in Halifax County, ant
running to the town of Scotland Neck, in that county, which
branch was extended to the town of Greenville, in Pitt County,
during 1M90, and in 1891 to the town of Kinston, in Lenoir
County, being in all a distance of eighty-five miles; that the
branch road ran through the county of Halifax for twentythree and one-half miles; that it was not shown that the said

OCTOBER TER-M,

1892.

Statement of the Case.

branch was built pursuant to the provisions of the original
charter or amendments thereto; that the branch road was
operated and managed by the officers of the plaintiff company, and known as the Scotland Neck brafich of the Wilmington and Weldon Railroad; that in addition to the said
Scotland Neck branch the plaintiff company owned and operated in the same manner the following other branch roads
in the State: The Clinton and Warsaw branch, 13 miles in
length; the Nashville or Spring Hope branch, 18 miles in
length; the Wilson and Fayetteville branch, 7 3.6 miles in length;
the Tarboro branch, 17 miles in length, making a total of
206.6 miles, the main road being 162 miles in length; that the
said branch roads, except the Tarboro branch, had been built
within the past ten years; and that the plaintiff company also
owned other investments in railroads and other properties.
A transcript of the proceedings and judgment roll, in the
case of "TWilmington and Teldon, Railroad Company V. John
.. Reid," was attached to the findings.
The railroad commission of North Carolina, pursuant to the
provisions of the revenue act of 1891 of that State, (Acts 1891,
c. 323,) assessed for taxation the portion of plaintiff's main
road and rolling stock from Halifax to Weldon, being the
portion acquired from the Halifax Company, and also that
part of the Scotland Neck branch in Halifax County, and
directed the commissioners of Halifax County to place the
same upon the tax list of the county for the year 1891, which
was done by the county commissioners, and taxes were levied
by them thereon accordingly. The tax list was duly placed
in the hands of the defendant, the sheriff of the county, and
he demanded paymcnt of the taxes, which, being refused, he
threatened to collect the same by distraint.
The Superior Court was of opinion that the tax upon the
road-bed and rolling stock between Halifax and Weldon was
void, and enjoined the defendant from enforcing its payment;
but that the tax levied upon the Scotland Neck branch was
valid, and vacated the preliminary restraining order against
its collection. Both parties appealed to the Supreme Court,
which held that the Superior Court had decided correctly as

WILMINGTON & WELDON RAILROAD v. ALSBROOK. 287
Argument for P1lintiff in Error.

to the branch line, but should have also decided the road-bed
and rolling stock between Halifax and Weldon to be taxable;
and, therefore, in that respect reversed the judgment of that
court. Final judgment having been afterward entered in the
Superior Court in accordance with the opinion and judgment
of the Supreme Court the case was again taken by plaintiff to
the Supreme Court and the judgment affirmed, whereupon this
writ of error was sued out. The opinions of the Supreme
Court, by Clark, J., which discuss the questions involved in all
their aspects, will be found reported in 110 N. Car. 137.
ir. Samuel Field Phillips,(with whom was 2fr. Frederic
.D. XfKenney and .Xr. George Davis on the brief,) for plaintiff in error.
I. The court below erred in holding that property of the
plaintiff appropriate to that part of the main route in question - i,.e., from Halifax to Weldon - was not exempt from
taxation.
The power of the Wilmington and Raleigh Railroad Cornpany under the amendment of December, 1835, to select
Weldon as the "point on the :Roanoke" is not only undeniable, but its exercise seems also to have been contemplated by
the legislature.
In December, 1835, a company with a capital of $50,000,
was constructing a railroad betwixt Halifax and Weldon. It
had been charted at the same session as the Wilmington and
Raleigh Railroad Company. The amended charter of the
latter of that date did not refer, as is to be observed, to any
"view of connecting with" the Halifax and Weldon railroad,
but only "with the Petersburg and Norfolk railroads," which
latter, as has been seen, were then contemplating a common
terminus on the Roanoke about Weldon-i.e., about th6
northern end of the Halifax and Weldon. In other words,
the amended charter of the Wilmington and Raleigh Railroad
Company suggested that its road for some dozen miles at its
northern end might, and probably would run parallel with,
and, of course, at a short distance from, that of the Halifax
and Weldon. The latter was, on its face, to be a mere neigh-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

borhood railroad company, and was regarded as too little a
matter of public concern to receive, or probably even to solicit
the privilege of exemption from taxation. At all events its
property was not so exempt; and after December, 1835, it
became confronted imminently, as above, with competition by
a railroad company whose road might run immediately by the
side of its own, and whose property was to be exempt. About
a year afterwards an act was passed making it "lawful" for
its stockholders to "subscribe their stock upon the books of"
the Wilnington and Raleigh Railroad Company "upon such
terms as may be stipulated between the stockholders in the
Halifax and Weldon Railroad Company and the president and
directors of the Wilmington and Raleigh Railroad Company;"
whereupon "all the property, real knd personal, owned and
held by the Halifax and Weldon Railroad Company shall vest
in and be owned and possessed by the Wilnington.and Raleigh
Railroad Company aforesaid, and be owned and held and possessed by the said company in the same manner that all the
other property, real and- personal, which has been acquired by
the said company is owned, held and possessed; and the road
which may have been built or partly built by the Halifax and
Weldon Railroad Company shall thenceforward be deemed to
all intents, as well criminal as civil, a part of the Wilmington
and Raleigh Railroad;" and, finallY, "so soon as the subscription hereby authorized shall have been made all the
rights and privileges acquired under the before-cited act of
Assembly passed in the year 1833, entitled 'An act to incorporate the Halifax and Weldon Railroad Company,' shall
cease, and the corporate existence of the said company be
determined."
Can the circumstance that it was thought to be bad. private
economy, and also bad public policy, to require citizens to pay
twice $50,000 and maintain two parallel roads, where one
$50,000 and one road were sufficient, and that thereupon a
device was. resorted to by which the subscription already made
and partially or completely paid for to one company should
be transferred to another upon terms to be agreed upon by
th~eparties thereto, and that then the former company should

WILMINGTON & WELDON RAILROAD v. ALSBROOK. 2S9
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

cease to exist; can this circumstance, we ask, affect the question whether the property so obtained by the second company
would participate in a statutory exemption which covered its
property in general? If property which it would have acquired
by the working out of their subscriptions by stockholders,
under the supposition first named above, would have been
exempt, why not equally under the latter?
There was to be no consolidation of the respective companies, nor any union of them, but only a succession. It is
only by confounding the Halifax and Weldon road with the
Halifax and Weldon Company that any survivorship of that
company after the new subscription by its stockholders, or any
survivorship of its privileges or of its disabilities or transfers of
these, can be argued. Its brains were out; and in the meanwhile the Wilmington and Raleigh Company was not affected
in respect to its previous identity, nor as regards any unlimited statutory immunity as to the property which it might
require for its purposes. As was said by Coke when arguing
a celebrated question it is not under the caps of our learned
friends successfully to contradict this.
Inasmuch as the interpretation of charters must depend
-very much upon the special wording of each, we will confine
our citation of authorities from amongst the numerous decisions of the court upon this general topic, to such as seem
most nearly related to the present case. See PAiladelphia,
Wilmington & Baltimore Railroad v. Maryland, 10 How.
376; Branch v. Tomlinson, 15 Wall. 460, 464; Charleston v.
Branchi, 15 Wall. 470; S. C. 92 U. S. 677; Green County v.
Conness, 109 U. S. 104; Southwestern Railroad v. Vright,
116 U. S. 231; Chicago, Burlington &c. Railroad v. Guffle,
120 U. S. 569, 573. As a result of these cases we find that
two different sorts of statutory modification of the existence
or the nature of corporations already existing have in connection with exemptions, etc. been recognized by this court: (1)
where the privileges, etc., of several have been consolidated
into one ; - there the resulting corporation is a new one, the
existence of which dates only from such consolidation; and
(2), where the privileges of one or more already existing have
VOL. CXLVI-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1892
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

been merged into the hands of another already existing, and there the existence of the latter is held to continue as before, its nature, however, being modified and its added property
being received cun onere attached to the privileges so merged,
in the very way that these had borne such burden previously.
The present is a third and very different case, in which one
of two previous companies bad been destroyed by legislative
action consented to by its stockholders, as completely as if by
judicial action under quo warranto; whilst such stockholders
had concurrently been authorized to invest their old stock in
the other company, which, however, was to receive no additional "privileges," and was left as free to fix by stipulation
the value of the stocks so offered for its acceptance as it would
have been in regard to any other consideration in kind that
might have been offered by any one else in satisfaction of a
subscription for its shares.
We therefore submit that the transaction in 1837 with the
stocliholders of the Halifax and Weldon Railroad Company
was in substance a mere subscription by these persons of
means of their own to forward purposes of the plaintiff that
were already within the provisions of its charter -a transaction in no respect essentially different from ordinary subscriptions to the same purposes when the subsequent work, or the
fruits of previous'work, or other values are received by a company in satisfaction therefor; and consequently that such.
assignment is well founded.
II. The court below erred in holding that the property of
the plaintiff appropriate to its Scotland Neck branch was not
exempt from taxation.
The first provision for branches of the complainant's road
occurs in section 21 of the charter of 1834, and this is continued
in sections 22, 23 and 25. The only other provision about
branches is that contained in the amendment of December,
1835, being the amendment which also authorized a change
of the Raleigh terminus to one on the Roanoke River, viz.:
SEc. 3. "That the said company may bt- at liberty to lay off
and construct any lateral road, under the rules and regulations,
provided in the aforesaid act, before or after they have corn-

WILMINGTON & WELDON RAILROAD v. ALSBROOK. 291
argument for Plaintiff in Error.

pleted the main railroad aforesaid, anything in the beforerecited act to the contrary notwithstanding."
Under these provisions it has plainly been competent, as is
submitted, for the complainant at its own discretion, and at any
time, to construct branches from any point whatsoever upon
its main road, in any direction whatsoever therefrom, and
to ahy point whatsoever, within the State. The limitations
upon the time for beginning and for completing the main
road do .not apply to the branches. The charter imposed upon
thoe who should accept it a duty to construct the main road.
The legislature might, therefore, well limit a period within
which that duty should be performed. But as to branches
there was no such duty, but only a license. The duty imposed
by the.charter was to be entered upon and performed at once;
but this license was left to be made avail of according as developments might thereafter suggest.
But it is objected on behalf of the defendant that this
reasoning disregards the important provisions of section 22,
and that these qualify in respect to branches the previous
provisions of the charter, so as to limit the "powers, rights
and privileges" conferred by these'" in respect to the main
road and the lands through which it passes"-to matters
connected with "the laying out, construction and use, and
preservation of said lateral or branch road." From these
words it is argued that the provisions of section 19 for exemption do not apply to the branches.
In reply, it is submitted that section 22 is, in both form and
substance, a provision to "extend" to the branches only the
previous provisions of the charter as to eminent domain for
the main road, and that it has no operation upon the previous
provision for exemption, which latter, as has been seen,
already covered all "the property of said company," part of
which property the section immediately 'receding this had
already ex industriapronounced such branches to be, vesting
these (even should they be constructed by means of separate
subscriptions) in the subscribers to the main road and the
branches, as one company in common and not separately.
In the first .place, the word "extend" of itself obviously

OCTOBER TERU,

1892.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

gives notice that what follows purports to be an enlargement
of some previous grant, instead of a restriction thereupon.
If section 22 had never been inserted in the charter or were
now stricken out, there could be no doubt, after reading
sections 19 and 21, that the property of the complainant
appropriate to its branches is exempt from taxation, whilst, at
the same time, it might in such case be seriously doubted
whether a right of eminent domain in respect to such branches
had been conferred.
The mere words of the first twenty sections of the charter
of 1834. appeared not to confer upon the plaintiff a right of
eminent domain in respect of its branch roads. Whether,
upon the whole matter and general consideration (in the
absence of section 22), a court might have so "construed"
those sections as to allow to them in this respect an extension
of meaning in behalf of branches, it is not necessary to consider and may even be conceded; for no draughtsmait of a
statutewould unnecessarily incur the risks of litigation thereabout, when a few words would take these away. The
drauhtsmen here were acting in the year 1834, when railroad
law (and indeed the American law of eminent domain as well)
was in its infancy. They had before their eyes the limitation
put upon the previous grant of eminent domain by its words,
and could not then be sure as to the effect of a construction
based upon general railroad policy, a matter which had then
to be foreseen and guessed at. Naturally, therefore, they
would exclude all conclusions and by positive terms "extend"
to branches a gift already made, and perhaps only in respect
to the main road, and we submit that such naturally suggested
extension could argue nothing in favor of a restriction upon
the provisions of section 19 for an exemption from taxation.
3 f'. R. 0. Burton (with whom was XJr. 2Yheodore F David-on, Attorney General of the State of North Carolina, on the
brief) argued for defendant in error. On the question of the
jurisdiction of this'court he said :
.The decision of the state court is based, upon a construction
of the contract itslf. Itconcedes'its validity, but denies that

WILMINGTON & WELDON RAILROAD v. ALSBROOK. 293
Opinion of the Court.

a certain class of property is within its terms. Hence the
writ of error should be dismissed. St. Paul, .inneapolis
&c. Railway v. Todd County, 142,U. S. 282.
If the case in the state court was decided on grounds not
involving a Federal question, but broad enough to sustain
the decision, this court will refuse to entertain jurisdiction. Henderson Bridge Co. v. hfenderson City, 141 U. S.
679, 688.
ill (with whom was. Mr. V. -. Day on
21r. Thomas N.
the brief), closed for plaintiff in error.
MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE

FULLER,

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
The jurisdiction of this court is questioned upon the ground
that the decision of the Supreme Court of N orth Carolina
conceded the validity of the contract of exemption contained
in the act of 1834, but denied that particular property was
embraced by its terms; and that, therefore, such decision did
not involve a Federal question.
In arriving at its conclusions, however, the state court gave
effect to the revenue law of 1891, and held that the contract
did not confer the right of exemption from its operation. If
it did, its obligation was impaired by the subsequent law, and
as the inquiry whether it did or not was necessarily directly
passed upon, we are of opinion that the writ of error was
properly allowed.. New Orleans Water Wor7s v. -Louisiana
Sugar Co., 125 U. S. 18, 38.
We do not regard fenderson Bridge Co. v. HZenderson City,
141 U. S. 679, and St. Paul,ifinneaolis &c. Railway Co. v.
Todd County, 142 U. S. 282, cited by defendant in error, as
qualifying the rule upon this subject.
In Henderson Bridge Co. v. Henderson City, it was held by
the Court of Appeals of Kentucky that the city of Henderson
under a certain city ordinance accepted by the Bridge Company had acquired a contract right to tax that part of the
bridge within the city limits in consideration of rights and
privileges granted the company by the ordinance, and as this

OCTOBER TERTM, 1892
Opinion of the Court.

interpretation justified the municipal taxation in question,
and could not be reviewed by us, we declined to maintain
jurisdiction.
In St. Paul, .Afinne polis &c. Railway Co. v. Todd County,
certain lands were considered by the state court as not within
the exemption claimed, under the revenue law existing at its
(late.
But in the case in hand the court passed upon the action of
the authorities in virtue of a legislative act approved more
than fifty years after the making of the supposed contract,
and explicitly upheld the law.
We are obliged, then, to consider the legality of this taxation in respect of the branch road proper and of the road from
lHalifaxto Weldon.
The inquiry is limited to taxation on corporate property
only, though the original exemption also covered the shares of
the capital stock in the hands of its shareholders. The legislature recognized the distinction between the one class and the
other; and if it were conceded that all the shares should be
treated as exempt, as contended, in respect of which we are
called upon to express no opinion, yet the entire property of
the company might or might not be exempt in the light of
all the provisions of the charter with its amendments, and the
terms of the authority under which it may have been acquired.
The applicable rule is too well settled to require exposition
or the citation of authority. The taxing power is essential to
the existence of government, and cannot be held to have been
relinquished in any instance unless the deliberate purpose of
the State to that effect clearly appears. The surrender of a
power so vital cannot be left to inference or conceded in the
presence of doubt, and when the language used admits of
reasonable contention, the conclusion is inevitable in favor of
the reservation of the power.
By its charter the Wilmington and Raleigh Railroad Company, with a capital stock of eight hundred thousand dollars,
was empowered to construct, repair and maintain a railroad
from Wilmington to Raleigh, and by its nineteenth section it
was provided (the punctuation being corrected) that "the,

WILMINGTON & WELDON RAILROAD v. ALSBROOK. 295
Opinion of the Court.

property of said company and the shares therein shall be
exempt from any public charge or tax whatsoever."
By section 21 branch roads were authorized, the whole capital of subscribed stock not to exceed one million of dollars, and
by section 22 it was provided "that all the powers, rights and
privileges conferred by the preceding sections upon the said
company, in respect to the main road, and the lands through
which it may pass, are hereby declared to extend in every
respect to the said company, and the president and directors
thereof, in the laying out, in the construction and in the use
and preservation of said lateral or branch road."
So far from it plainly appearing from this language that
the exemption from taxation was thereby extended to branch
roads, it seems to us entirely clear that the words used were
words of limitation, and in terms confined the powers, rights
and privileges granted to those relating to the laying out, the
construction, the repair and the operation of the branches.
The powers, rights and privileges conferred by the preceding sections upon the company in respect to the main road,
and the lands through which it might pass, embraced the
rights and powers necessary for the laying out, construction,
repair, maintenance and operation of a railroad, including the
power of eminent domain in the various forms of its exercise;
in short, the positive rights or privileges, without which the
branch roads could not be constructed or successfully worked,
but which did not *in themselves include immunity from taxation, a privilege having no relation to the laying out, construction, use or preservation of the road.
In Railroad Company v. Commissioners, 103 U. S. 1, the
Annapolis and Elk Ridge Railroad Company was "invested
with all the rights and powers necessary to the construction
and repair" of its railroad, and for that purpose was to "have
and use all the powers and privileges" and be subject to theobligations contained in certain enumerated sections of the
charter of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company. Among
these sections was one containing this provision: "And the
shares of the capital stock of the said company shall be
deemed and considered personal estate, and shall be exempt

OCTO13ER TElR, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

from the imposition of any tax or burthen by the States assenting to this law." It was held that exemption from taxation
-was not one of the privileges of the Baltimore and Ohio Company, which the new company was permitted "to have and
use," since the powers and privileges conferred were only such
as were necessary to the construction, repair and use of the
railroad.

And Railroad Companies v. Gaines, 97 U. S. 697,

and 1[organ v. Zouisiana, 93 LU. S. 217, where similar rulings
were made, were cited and approved.
The language of the section under consideration requires
the same construction, although the section relates to branch
roads of the same company and not to the roads of different
companies. The fact that the branches may be component
parts of an organic whole; that "the subscribers for the main
road and the branches shall constitute but one company, and
their rights of property and estate shall be in common, and
not separate," (ยง 21), does not change the rule, for restrictive
words cannot be wrested from their apparent meaning because
used in the same charter and with regard to the creation of
certain parts of one system, if those subdivisions as authorized
have a separate physical existence and 'constitute in themselves
a certain class of property. If other companies had been
chartered in the language employed in these sections there
could' be no question that their pr'operty would be liable to
taxation, and no reason is perceived for treating these branches
as differently situated in this regard.
We cannot accede to the ingenious suggestion of counsel
that section 22 was simply a provision for extending to the
branches the previous provisions of the charter as to eminent
domain only. The powers, rights and privileges were those
pertaining to the use as well as the construction of the branches.
And if a necessity appeared to exist of- specifically conferring
upon.the company the power of eminent domain'in respect of
its branch roads, because of the character of the power, it is
difficult to see why exemption from taxation should not have
been mentioned, for the same reason, if it had been intended
to extend that also to the branches. Nor by a play upon the
"word "extend" can the section be regarded as an enlargement

WILMINGTON & WELDON RAILROAD v. ALSBROOK. 297
Opinion of the Court.

to the exclusion of restriction. To extend the powers, rights
and privileges of the company existing as to the main road so
as to comprehend the branches, may, it is true, be said to have
enlarged their application, but only in the particulars named,
and as restricted by the enumeration.
We do not deny that exemption from taxation may be construed as included in the word "privileges," if there are other
provisions removing all doubt of the intention of the legislature
in that respect, Picard v. East Tennessee &c. Railroad Co.,
130 U. S. 637, 642; but we have none such here.
And in this connection, some further observations may
properly be made. As pointed out by the Supreme Court,
the charter as originally granted was for the construction of a
railroad from Wilmington to Raleigh, a distance of something
over one hundred miles, with a capital stock of $800,000; and
branches were authorized under the sections referred to, interjected into the body of the act, the capital being, however,
limited to $1,000,000. The act of 1835 authorized a change
of terminus "to some point at or near the river iRoanoke," and
an increase of the capital stock to $1,500,000, and the company
was also empowered to purchase, own and possess steamboats
and other vessels to ply from Wilmington to Charleston, or
elsewhere. The act of 1851 permitted an increase of the capital stock to $2,500,000. These acts contained no exemption
of property from taxation, nor did the act of 1867, which
authorized the company to open books for subscription to
build branch roads- to the amount of $25,000 per mile, nor
any other amendatory act availed of by the company.
Under the act of 1S35 the road was built to Halifax, one
hundred and fifty-four miles, and by the acquisition of the
Halifax and Weldon Railroad was extended to Weldon, making a distance of one hundred and sixty-two miles. The findings show over two hundred miles in branch roads. Doubtless
these, or some of them, might be treated as constituting parts
of the main line in fact, but under the charter that term is
applicable to the line from Wilmington to Halifax, or to Weldon, a consideration involved in another aspect of the case.
By section 33 of the act of 1834, the completion of "the

OCTOBER TERM, 189.
Opinion of the Court.

main line from Wilmington to Raleigh within twelve years"
was required, but it is insisted that this limitation had no
application to the branches; that as to the main line its construction was a duty, but as to the branches, their construction
was simply licensed; and that under the acts of 1831 and 1S35
it was competent for the company, at discretion and at any
time, to construct branches from any point on its main road
in any direction and to any point within the State. None of
the branch roads were either commenced or finished within
the twelve years. The Tarboro branch, it is said, was built in
1860, and the others, according to the findings, within ten
years prior to December, 1891. We find nothing in the record
to indicate that if the legislature intended to empower this
company to tessellate the State with branch roads, it was
designed that they should be exempted from the payment of
taxes. Whatever effect the acceptance of the amendments
and the delay in building the branches may have had, it is
quite clear that their immunity from taxation cannot be successfully asserted under the circumstances.
It remains to examine the case as respects the road from
Halifax to Weldon.
Under the amendment of 1835 .the Wilmington Company
was at liberty to run its main road from Wilmington to
Raleigh, or from Wilmington "to some point at or near the
river Roanoke."
The Supreme Court held that Halifax was the point on the
Roanoke River which, by election of the company, was made
the terminus of the main road as authorized, instead of
Raleigh. This followed from the fact that the company only
built its road to Halifax under its charter, and that Weldon
was reached by the acquisition of the road of the Halifax
Company under the act of 1836, passed for that purpose.
The main road of the Wilmington Company was exempt,
but if the Halifax road after its transfer be regarded as a
branch or connecting road, and, at all events, as in law not
a part of the main road, then it was not within the exemption
of the charter, and the taxation complained of was not illegal.
It must be borne in mind that the Halifax road was con-

WILMINGTON & WELDON RAILROAD v. ALSBROOK. 299
Opinion of the Court.

structed under an act of incorporation which did not withdraw
the property of the Halifax Company from taxation. The
legislature apparently did not consider it necessary to hold out
that inducement to the building of a line between Halifax and
Weldon, and when, for the benefit of these railroad companies,
it authorized the transaction in question, it must be assumed
to have done this as a matter of favor, and not upon the
consideration of benefit to the public by the creation of what
had already been brought into existence without any special
release from common burdens.
The act of 1836 was an act, as its title stated, "empowering
the Halifax and Weldon Railroad Company to subscribe their
stock to the Wilmington and Raleigh Railroad Company."
This was to be done upon such terms as might be stipulated
between the two companies, and the terms agreed on were the
payment of the Halifax Company's debts, the transfer of its
assets, and the issue of certificates to its stockholders of their
respective number of shares in the Wilmington Company.
Upon that subscription being effected, the act provided that
"all the property, real and personal, owned and held" by the
Halifax Company should become vested in and be owned and
possessed by the Wilmington Company, and be "owned and held
and possessed by the said company in the same marnier that al
the other property, real and personal, whieh has been acquired
by the said company, is owned, held and possessed;" and that
the road of the Halifax Company shall "thenceforward be
deemed, to all intents, as well criminal as civil, a part of
the Wilmington and. Raleigh Railroad." The rights and
privileges of the Halifax Company, thereupon ceased, and its
corporate existence was- determined. The legal identity of
the Wilmington Company remained, while that of the Halifax
Company was .destroyed; and although the transaction was
the act of 1875, as a consolida-described by the eg.sTature, ifi
tion, it amounted rather to a merger or an amalgamation, and
need-not be-ield to have resulted in a new- corporation. But
it by nb meaps follows that the transfer of the road of the
one company to the other made it in law such an extension of
the main road of the latter as to bring it within the exemption

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

from taxation which, as we have seen, was confined to the
main road alone. The main road built by the Wilmington
Company under its charter terminated at Halifax. The prolongation of the line to Weldon was the result of acquisition
under another and different act required to be passed in order
to allow this to be done, and not conferring any exemption.
As already indicated, if the construction of the main road could
be presumed to have been partially induced by the promise of
exemption, no such presumption arose from the mere legislative concession of authority to obtain an existing road.
The property acquired was, indeed, to be owned, held and
-possessed by the Wilmington Company in the same manner
as its other property, the real estate as in fee simple and
the personality as used and enjoyed, but the way in which
property is owned and handled has no necessary relation to
The branch roads are owned, held and
an exemption.
possessed in the same manner as the main road, but the
extent of the exemption is limited by the charter. And that
limitation was neither explicitly nor by fair* implication removed by the language of the act of 1836.
Central Railroad &c. Co. v. Georgia, 92 U. S. 605, is much
in point. There the Central Coml)any and the 11acon Coinpany were authorized to unite and consolidate their stocks and
all their rights, privileges, immunities, property and franchises,
under the name and charter of the Central Company, and
thereupon the holders of the shares of the stock of the
Macon Company became entitled to receive a like number of
shares of stock in the Central Company, upon surrendering
their certificates of stock in the Macon Company. It was
held that the consolidation did not amount to a surrender of
the existing charters of both companies, and the creation of a
new company; that the purpose and effect of the consolidation aat were tb provide for a merger of the lMiacon Company
into the Central Company, and to vest in the latter the rights
and immunities of the former, but not to eail 'ge them; and
that as the Macon Com'pany held its franchises and property
subject Lo taxation, the Central CQmpany, succeeding to the
ownership, held them alike subject. It was not doubted that.

WILMINGTON & WELDON RAILROAD v. ALSBROOK. 301
Opinion of the Court.

the Macon Company was intended to go out of existence, for,
as said by the court through Mr. Justice Strong, provision
was made for the surrender of all the shares of its capital
stock, and without stockholders it could not exist. The Central Company absorbed the Macon Company, and it ceased to
be, just as in the case at bar the merger was to result and did
result in the determination of the corporate existence of the
Halifax Company.
In Southwestern Railroad Co. v. Wright, 116 'L. S. 231, 236,
the question related to the liability of the railroad company
for taxes on different parts of its road. The original charter
contained an exemption from taxation, and as to two of the
parts acquired or built under subsequent legislation, there was
a reservation of the right to tax. A third division was constructed under an amendatory act giving authority so to do,
under the rules and restrictions " originally prescribed, but
containing nothing about taxation. As the original charter
was not the source of power to build the division, it was
decided that the exemption therein contained did not extend
to the latter. Mr. Chief Justice Waite, delivering the opinion
of the court, said: "In building this extension or branch the
company was placed 'under the rules and restrictions' they
were subjected to in building the original road; but that did
not necessarily imply an exemption of this line from taxation
to the same extent that the old road was exempted. That
exemption was only for that road, and as the amending act
does not in terms or by fair implication apply the exemption
to the additional road, which was to be built under it, we
must presume that nothing of the kind was intended, and that
the state was left free to tax that road like other property."
We concur with the state court in the conclusions reached,
as sustained by reason and authority.
It appears from the record of the case of WTImington and
lVeldon Railroad Company v. John A. Reid, that certain
taxes were imposed in 1869 upon the franchise and rolling
stock of the Wilmington Company and upon certain lots of
land situated in the county of Halifax, forming part of the
property of the company and necessary to be. used in the

OCTOBER TERM, 189z.
Opinion of the Court.

operation of its business; and that the defendant Reid, sheriff
of the county, had seized an engine and tender belonging to
the plaintiff in the effort to collect the tax. A demand was
made on the county commissioners to correct the tax list in
the particular of the levy against the franchise and rolling
stock, and subsequently a complaint was filed by the company
against the sheriff, the county commissioners not being made
parties, setting up that neither the lots nor the franchise or
rolling stock were liable to be taxed, because exempt under section 19 of the company's charter. The facts being admitted,
judgment was entered sustaining the exemption claimed, and
the sheriff was enjoined.
The case was then taken to the Supreme Court of the State,
where it was held that the franchise was liable to taxation,
and the order of the Superior Court was reversed. 64: N. C.
226. To review this judgment a writ of error was sued out
from this court, and it was thereon decided that a statute
exempting all the property of a railroad company from taxation exempts not only the rolling stock and real estate owned
by, it and required by the company for the successful prosecution 9f its business, but its franchise also, and the judgment
of the Supreme Court was in turn reversed. TFilmington
Railroadv. Reid, 13 Wall. 264. These proceedings are relied
on as an estoppel so far as the road from HKalifax to Weldon
is concerned, or as controlling authority in the premises. We
think they cannot be so regarded. The causes of action are
not identical and the points or questions actually litigated are
not the same. The distinction between the road from Halifax
to Weldon and the main road from Wilmington to Halifax
was not adverted to; and even if that question might have
been raised, this suit being upon a different cause of action,
the judgment in the former case cannot operate as determining what might have been, but was not brought in issue
and passed upon. Cromwe&l v. County of Sac, 94 U. S. 351;
.7esbit v. Riverside Inde)endent -District,14:4 U. S. 610.
'It is quite evident that the former action Was simply availed
of in order to obtain a decision as to the power to tax the
main line, and that no other point was controverted.
Judgment affigmed.

