POTTS v. WALLACE.
Statement of the Case.

I think that no Federal question was involved, and that the
writ of error ought to be dismissed.
MR. JusTic LAIAI and MR. JUSTICE SHIRAS, not having
heard the argument, took no part in the decision of this case.

POTTS v. WALLACE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 41. Argued November 14, 1892.-Decided December 12, 1892.

The directors of a corporation organized under the laws of Pennsylvania
voted to make an assignment of the property of the corporation for the
benefit of its creditors, which vote was ratified by the stockholders.
They further voted to make a mortgage to secure a claim of one of the
directors as a preferred claim. The assignment was made without
making the mortgage. In an action by the assignee to enforce payment
from a stockholder of his subscription to the stock, held, that the
defendant could not set up the failure to make the mortgage as invalidating the assignment.
When the assets of an insolvent corporation, organized under the laws of
Pennsylvania, fail to meet the liabilities of the company by an amount
equal to or greater thAn the sum due the company from a stockholder by
reason of unpaid subscriptions to his stock, the assignee has an action
at law against him to recover such unpaid subscriptions without first
resorting to equity for an assessment.
In an action against a stockholder in an insolvent corporation to recover
unpaid subscriptions to his stock for the benefit of creditors, it is no
defence to show that wl.en the corporation was solvent he offered to
pay in full and his offer was declined, if it also further appear that he
refused to be absolvedl from his contract, and stood upon his rights as a
stockholder until the company became embarrassed.
When the plaintiff's evidence makes out aprimafaciecase, and the defendant,
after going into his evidence, does not go to the jury on the question of
fact, he abandons his defence, so far as it depends on his own evidence;
and takes the position that the plaintiff's evidence does not make out a
case.

THIs was an action brought originally in the New York
Supreme Court, and afterwards removed into the -Circuit
VOL. cxLvi-44

OCTOBER TERMN,

1892.

Statement of the Case.

Court of the United States for the Eastern District of New
York, by Henry Potts, Jr., as assignee of the Chester Tube
and Iron Company, plaintiff, against William I-. Wallace.
The Chester Tube and Iron Company was a corporation of
Pennsylvania, duly incorporated under the provisions of an
act of assembly of that State, approved April 29, 1874, entitled "An act to provide for the incorporation and regulation
of certain corporations," for the purpose of the manufacture
of iron or steel, or of any article of commerce made from
them. The place where the business of the corporation was
to be transacted was Chester, Delaware County, in the State
of Pennsyivania, and the capital stock was fixed at one hundred thousand dollars, divided into two thousand shares of
the par value of fifty dollars each. The whole amount of the
capital stock was subscribed for by the defendant, William II.
Wallace, and six other persons, who had associated themselves
together for the purpose of forming the corporation. The
charter or agreement of association was dated the 13th day
of December, 1877, and letters patent were issued by the
governor of Pennsylvania on the 5th day of January, 187g.
The charter was signed by the associates, and William S.
McManus, Augustus B. Wood, William II. Wallace, Patrick
Reilly, and John Shotwell were named therein as directors
for the first year.
In and by this charter the defendant Wallace subscribed for
three hundred shares of the stock, and he continued to hold
his position as director of the company until the 6t.h day
of July, 1880, when, at a meeting of the board then holden,
he resigned, his resignation was accepted, and on the 14th day
of July, 1880, one F. C. Shcitwell was elected to take his
place. There was no meeting of the board of directors from
January 21, 1880, to July-6, 1880.
-At a meeting of the boar:d on August 3, 1880, the following
resolution was adopted:
' Whereas it has become apparent that, in order to enable
this company to meet its liabilities, some indulgence on the
the part of its creditors is necessary, therefore, resolved, that
the president is authorized to negotiate for and effect an exten-

POTTS v. WALLACE.
Statement of the Caqe.

sion of the claims against the company upon such terms as he
may deem most likely to make it meet its indebtedness; and
in the event of his failure to accomplish such extension, the
president is authorized to execute, under the corporate seal,
with his attestation, a deed of general assignment for all the
estate and property of the company for the benefit of its
creditors yro rata and without preference."
On the 14th day of September, 1880, a deed, purporting to
be a deed of assignment by the Chester Tube and Iron Company, by its president, William S. McManus, under its seal,
was executed to Henry Potts, Jr., and was recorded the same
day in the recorder's office of Delaware County, Pennsylvania. This deed purported to convey and transfer to Henry
Potts, Jr., as assignee, all the property and estate of the company of every description, in trust, to sell and dispose of the
same, and to collect all the claims of the company, conduct
all the steps necessary for the purpose of converting the assets
into cash, and to divide the samewithout preference among
the creditors of the corporation, with the further provision
that should there be any surplus, after paying the debts, the
same should be returned to the corporation.
In pursuance of the provisions of the Pennsylvania statutes,
regulating such assignments, Henry Potts, Jr., on October 20,
1880, executed his bond, conditioned for the faithful performance of his duties as assignee, in the penalty of $191,000, which
bond was approved by the Court of Common Pleas of Delaware
County. Henry Potts, Jr., assumed the trust and proceeded
with the execution of the same so far as to file an account,
which account was confirmed by the court of Delaware County.
On the 5th of March, 1882, a petition was filed in said court,
alleging the death of Henry Potts, Jr., and, on the same day,
an order was made appointing Henry W.. Potts ds assignee to
fill the vacancy occasioned by the death of Henry Potts, Jr.,
and directing him to give a bond, with sureties, in the sum of
$44,000, and such bond was filed on March 6, 1S82; and on
December 16, 1882, the Supreme Court of New York,.Coumty
of Itings, in which the action brought by Henry Potts, Jr.,
against the defendant Wallace was still pending, ordered that

OCTOBER TERAM, 1392.
Statement of the Case.

Henry W. Potts, as assignee of the Chester Tube and Iron
Company, be substituted as plaintiff in the place of Henry
Potts, Jr., deceased.
On the 22d day of June, 1883, on the petition of Henry W.
Potts, assignee, the said action was removed to the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of New
York, and at the May term, 1888, came on to be tried before
the Hon. E. Henry Lacombe, Circuit Judge, and a jury, and
resulted in a verdict for the defendant on the 9th day of May,
1888.
On February 5, 1889, judgment was entered on the verdict
in favor of the defendant and against the plaintii, and on
the 5th day of April, 1889, a writ of error was allowed and
the cause was brought thereby into the Supreme Court of the
United States.
The record discloses, in addition to the foregoing ,facts, that
the defendant's answer admitted that he had subscribed for
threp hundred shares of stock, had not paid anything on
account of the same, and that demand for payment had been
made on him by the plaintiff as assignee.
To meet the prima faci case thus made out against him,
the defendant put in evidence proceedings of the stockholders
on August 12, and of the board of directors on August 20. At
these meetings the president and treasurer were directed to
execute and deliver to A. B. Wood, trustee, a bond and mortgage of the company for $11,200, to secure money advanced
hy him, as trustee for John E. and Mary D. Browning, for the
use of the company, and also to assign to A. B. Wood all the
company's interest in the leasehold, machinery and fixtures of
the company, in payment of $12,260, due Wood for money
advanced by him individually for the use of the company.
The resolutions of the stockholders and of the directors, at
these meetings directed the president that, after the mortgage
and assignment to A. B. Wood were executed and delivered,
he should execute the deed of general assignment provided for
by the resolution of August 3, 1880.
The defendant likewise put in evidence, under objection by
the -plaintiff, the proceedings of a meeting of the directors held

POTTS v. WALLACE.
Statement of the Case.

on Septemaber 16, 1880, wherein resolutions were passed 'declaring the act of the president in executing and delivering the
deed of assignment to have been void and without authority,
and in fraud of the rights of the company, and contrary to the
will of the directors and stockholders. These resolutions furthe provided that the said pretended assignment should be
repudiated, that notice of this action should be given to Henry
Potts, Jr., and that the president should be and was removed
from office, and D. F. Houston elected to take his place.
The defendant likewise offered evidence tending to show
that several times during the year 1879 and early in 1880,
when the affairs of the company were in an apparently prosperous condition, he offered to pay to the treasurer of the company the amount of his subscription, $15,000, and demanded
his stock; that the treasurer, acting, as he testified, under
directions of the president, refused to accept the money and to
deliver the stock. The defendant likewise proved his resignation as director on July 6, 1880.
The record further discloses that, after the defendant had
put in the foregoing evidence, the plaintiff called W. S.
McManus, the president, who testified that he had never
refused to accept defendant's subscription money or to deliver
the stock, and that he gave no instructions to the treasurer to
refuse defendant's payment or to refuse to deliver his stock.
He also testified that he continued to consult with the defendant about the affairs of the company doVn until July,
1880.
The record further shows that, on the closing of the testimony, i was conceded by the counsel for the plaintiff and- the
defendant respectively that there was no question of fact to
be submitted to the jury; that thereupon the counsel for the
plaintiff requested the court to direct the jury to find a verdibt
for the plaintiff, which request was denied, and this ruling was
excepted to; that the court, on motion of defendant's counsel,
directed a verdict in favor of the defendant; and that the
plaintiff's counsel duly excepted to the ruling in that behalf.
The jury, under the direction of the court, found a verdict for
the defendant.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

-Mr.Sidney Ward for plaintiff in error.
Mr. B. F. Tracy for defendant in error.
I. All duties and obligations imposed upon the defendant
by his subscription were fully discharged and cancelled by
the refusal on the part of the company, while it continued
solvent, to receive the payment and performance tendered.
(a) The contract of subscription between the defendant and
the company was a mutual contract and gave rise to mutual
obligations and duties.
That the subscription, at its date, was a valid contract, is
not disputed. Richmondville Union Seminary v. MacDonald,
34 N. Y: 379, 381; Parker v. .Nort/ern Central .3fieddgan.
1ailroad, 33 Mkichigan, 23; Marsh v. Burroughs, 1 Woods,
463; Burrall v. Bushwick Railroad, 75 2N. Y. 211; Pitsburgh & Connellsville Railroad v. Graham,36 Penn. St. 77;
Custar v. Titusville Gas & lFater Co., 63 Penn. St. 381; .Melvin V. Eoyt, 52 N. H. 61.
(b) The contract of subscription being one of "sale and purchase" the obligation on the part of the defendant to pay his
subscription was fully discharged at the time he tendered performance, and the same was refused.
Upon tendering the property and after giving the buyer a
reasonable time to accept the property and pay for the same,
the seller may regard the contract as abandoned by the pur'chaser, he being put in defaulC by his refusal to pay. JVestfall
v. Peacock, 63 Barb. 209; Des Arts v. .Leggett, 16 N. Y. 582;
Billings v. Janderbeck, 23 Barb. 546; Slingerland v. .2forse,
b Johns. 474.
(c) The defendant took all necessary steps to release himself from liability as a stockholder. In view of the action
taken by the treasurer and president, a formal tender by the
defendant of the amount of his subscription was not necessary. The defendant on several occasions demanded his
stock of the treasurer and offered to pay for the same, but in
every instance.the treasurer, acting under the instructions of
the president, refused to issue the stock. A further tender

POTTS v. WALLACE.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

became unnecessary, when it was reasonably certain that the
offer would be refused. Hills v. Albany Exchange BiSnk, 12
Fed. Rep. 93 ; Currie v. White, 45 N. Y. 822; Woolner v. Hill,
93 N. Y. 576.
It was within the province of the president and treasurer
of the corporation to issue the stock, they being authorized by
the by-laws to sign all certificates of stock, and their refusal
to issue stock was the refusal of the properly authorized agents
of the corporation.
(d) It is conceded that the general rule of law in regard to
unpaid stock subscriptions is that "unpaid subscriptions to
stock are assets, and have frequently been treated by courts
of equity as if impressed with a trust sub modo in the sense
that neither the stockholders nor the corporations can misappropriate subscriptions so far as creditors are concerned."
But the equities of creditors are not regarded to the exclusion of all other equities. In the absence of statutes creditors
may have equitable claims against stockholders, but not legal
rights. Cases may and do arise where the right of a subscriber to be released from his obligation is paramount to any
rights of creditors.
We do not doubt that a subscriber to the capital stock of
the company cannot be discharged from the obligation which
he has assumed until payment has been actually made, or the
obligation to pay has been extinguished in some lawful manner. And we further concede that where the obligation to
pay exists, any arrangement between the company and its
debtor, by which a fictitious payment is attempted to be substituted for an actual payment, is a fraud upon the creditors,
and may be disregarded by a receiver in bankruptcy, and the
payment of the balance actually due enforced. There is no
reported case that goes beyond this.
Wherever a pretended payment has been set aside and disregarded, it has been put on the express ground that the
alleged payment was a fiction, and made in fraud of the
creditors of the corporation. No such question is involved in
the case at bar.
The defendant was a subscriber for the stock of the cor-

OCTOBER TERIr, 1892.
Argument for Defendant in Error

poration; payment of this subscription could not be enforced
except by tender of the stock. The promise of the corporation to deliver the stock was the consideration of the defendant's promise to pay. The contract was executory. When
the defendant offered to pay and demanded his stock and the
corporation refused to deliver it, the corporation violated its
contract and the defendant was discharged therefrom.
At the time of the bankruptcy, the defendant had ceased to
be a subscriber for the stock. He was under no obligation
whatever to the corpbration. Of course, if it could be alleged
that this was a mere device for the purpose of relieving the
defendant from his obligation, a different question would be
presented. No such thing is pretended. This distinction is
pointedly made by Grover, J., in Mills v. Stewart, 41 N. Y.
384, 386. See also Small v. Iferkimer Mlanifacturing Co., 2
N. Y. 330; Sawyer v. Eoag, l'7 Wall. 610; Clark v. Bever,
139 U. S. 96, 113; Handley v. Stultz, 139 U. S. 417, 430;
Pacific Bank v. Eaton, 141 U. S. 227.
II. In any event the plaintiff has mistaken his remedy.
There is no foundation for an action at law.
This is an action at law in the nature of debt to recover from
the defendant the full amount of the capital stock for which
he had at one time subscribed. Conceding for the sake of the
argument, that the breach by the corporation of the contract
of subscription might not relieve him from liability to certain
creditors, it is plain that, as between the defendant and the
corporation, its refusal to accept his money and deliver him
his stock would prevent it from suing him on his subscription,
and therefore the plaintiff cannot recover in its right.
At common law an assignee of an ins6lvent corporation
could recover from a stockholder only when the corporation
itself could have recovered if the assignment had not been
made.
The corporation law of Pennsylvania, under which the
Chester Tube and Iron Company was organized, provides that
the officers and stockholders organized under or accepting the
provisions of the act shall not be individually liable for the
debts of the corporation otherwise than in the act provided.

POTTS v. WAILACE.
Opinion of the Court.

The act provides for making stockholders parties to an
action against the corporation, the levying of an execution
against the corporation, and, if it be returned unsatisfied, that
the deficiency may be satisfied out of the property of the
stockholders so made parties, etc.
This liability, whether limited or not, is a security provided
by law for the benefit of creditors, over which the corporation
has no control; and, consequently, an attempted assignment
by the corporation of the statutory liability of shareholders
is inoperative, although made for the equal benefit of all the
creditors. Wright v. .McCormack,17 Ohio St. 86; Dutcher v.
.Marine Bank, 12 Blatchford, 435; Lanes Appeal, 105 Penn.
St. 49; Bell's Appeal, 105 Penn. St. 88.
It is evident on the face of the complaint that the statutory
liability has not been pursued. The remedy of the plaintiff,
if he has any against this defendant, is in equity. The complaint does not contain the allegations necessary for -a bill
in equity. See also Terry v. Anderson, 95 U. S. 628; AMills
v. Scott, 99 U. S. 25; Hatch v. Dana,101 U. S. 205; McLean
v. Eastman, 21 Hun, 312; Chandler v. Heith, 42 Iowa, 99.
III. The assignment was invalid. It was made by the
president pursuant to a resolution of the board of directors
and he did not follow the instructions, conditions and authority contained in the resolution.
IV. This is not a question of irregularity which the company could waive, but a question of defect of title. If the
president had no power to execute the assignment as he did,
then the plaintiff obtained no title, and he cannot maintain
this action, for his own proof discloses the defect of title.
V. The plaintiff cannot secure a reversal of this judgment
upon the ground that there was any issue of fact which the
court should have submitted to the jury.
MR. JUsTICE SmRAs delivered the opinion of the court.

The assignments in error are nineteen in number, but they

present substantially but one question: Did the court err,-in
view of all the evidence, in directing the jury to find a verdict
for te defendant?

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

There were nofindings of fact by the court or jury, and no
charge or opinion', of the court is shown by the record. We
are therefore left to-draw the materials upon which we are to
revise the judgment of the court below from the various offers
of evidence and exceptions thereto, read in the light afforded
by the respective briefs and arguments of counsel.
Taken in logical order the first ground of defence is found
in the position that the assignment to Potts for the benefit of
creditors was invalid; and the want of validity is supposed to
be found in the fact that, in executing the deed of assignment,
the president did no follow certain instructions and conditions
imposed upon him bythe board. Undoubtedly, the act of the
president, in executing and delivering the deed of assignment,
was fully warranted by the resolution of the board of August 3,
1880; but it is claimed that, by reason of proceedings at the
stockholders' meeting, held on August 12, and at a meeting
of the board of directors on August 20, the authority of the
president, granted by the resolution of August 3, was modified,
or made conditional on certain other acts that he was to do.
At the stockholders' meeting a resolution was passed directing the president, directors and officers of the company to
execute a bond and mortgage to secure A. B. Wood, one of
the directors, for certain trust moneys he had adtanced to the
company, and also to make an assignment to said board of the
leasehold and fixtures of the company in payment of moneys
alleged to have been advanced by him for the use of the
company.
The resolution of the board of directors of August 3,authorizing the president to make a deed of assignment for the benefit of creditors, was laid before the stockb6ders, and, upon
motion, was approved and ratified; and the president was
authorized to execute a general assignment after the mortgage
and assignment of lease to A. B. Wood should be duly exeouted and delivered.
At the meeting of the board, held on August 20, 1880, the
action\ of the stockholders in directing the execution of a
mortgage and\assignment of the lease to A. B. Wood was
reported, a d was, by a resolution, approved.

POTTS v. WALLA CE.
Opinion of the Court.

It would seem that the mortgage and assignment of lease

to Wood were never executed, and that the president on September 14, 1880, executed and delivered the deed of assignment
to Potts.
As already stated, this action of the president in making the
deed of assignment, without the mortgage and assignment to
Wood having been executed, was sought to be repudiated by
the board at a meeting held on September 16, 1880.
Whether the proposition to secure Wood, one of the directors
of an insolvent company, by a mortgage covering all the property of the company, would have been valid as against the
other creditors of the company, is more than doubtful. However that may be, the record does n6t show that any steps
were ever taken to prevent the assignment to Potts from
taking effect. There is no evidence that Potts was ever notified of the action of the .directors, attempting to make the deed
of general assignment subject to a prior mortgage and assignment in favor of Wood. Nor does it appear that any effort
was ihade in the court having jurisdiction of the subject to set
aside the deed to Potts. On the contrary, it appears that the
assignee was suffered to proceed in the execution of his duties
as assignee by filing his bond and inventory and an account,
and, upon the death of Henry Potts, Jr., no objection was
made on behalf of Wood or the company to resist the appointment of a successor.
The propo.sition that Wallace, when called upon by the
assignee to pay for his stock, could take refuge in the abortive
attempt of the directors to prefer one of their own number,
seems to us to be altogether inadmissible.
Another ground of defence urged was that the plaintiff had
mistaken his remedy; that the proceeding to enforce the liability of Wallace should have been by a bill in equity.
We might dismiss this position by the observation that it does
not appear to have been taken by the defendant in his answer, or
to have been brought to the attention of the court at the trial.
As, however, for other reasons, the case! has to go back for
another trial, it may be well for us to briefly consider the
merits of the suggestion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

It is undoubtedly true that, in Pennsylvania, in the case of
an insolvent corporation, its assets, including unpaid capital
stock, constitute a trust fund, and that such fund cannot be
appropriated by individual creditors, by means of attachments
or executions directed against particular assets, but should be
distributed, on equitable principles, among the creditors at
large.
Accordingly, it was ruled by the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania in Lane's Appeal, 105 Penn. St. 49, and in Bell's
4ppeal, 105 Penn. St. 88, cases cited by defendant's counsel,
that a bill in equity is a (proper remedy whereby to subject
the property of an insolvent corporation to the claims of its
creditors.
Some general expressions were used in those opinions, cited
in the brief of defendant's counsel, which seem to countenance
the pioposition that the only remedy in each case is by a bill
in equity. But an examination of the facts of the cases and
of the reasoning of the opinions clearly shows that what the
court meant was that the proceeding must, in some form, be
a remedy for all, and not for some, of the creditors-that the
remedy must be coextensive with the nature of the property
as a trust fund.
That this is the proper reading of those cases is shown by
the later case of Citizens' Savings Bank v. Gillespie, 115
Penn. St. 564, 572. That was the case of a suit brought by
an assignee of an insolvent bank for the benefit of creditors
against a subscriber for stock remaining unpaid, ana the
Supreme Court, per Paxson, C. J., said:
"There being no assessment in evidence, the learned judge
left it to the jury to find whether the whole of the unpaid
subscription was required to pay the debts of the company.
We see ho error in this. If the unpaid subscriptions were
required to pay the creditdrs, no assessment was necessary,
under the authority of Yeager v. Scranton Trust Company,
(14 Weekly Notes of Cases, 296.) . . . It was there said
that 'the uncontradicted evidence shows that it was necessary
to collect the whole of this stock subscription in order to pay
the sums due the depositors of this insolvent corporation.'

POTTS v. WALLACE.
Opinion of the Court.

There is not even an apparent conflict between the case
referred to and the later cases of Lane's Appeal, 105 Penn.
St. 49, and Bell's Appeal, 115 Penn. St. 88, 564. Those were
creditors' bills, filed against insolvent corporations, to compel
the payment by the stockholders of their unpaid subscriptions,
and it was held that, in such cases, there must be an account
taken of the amount of debts, assets and unpaid capital, and
a decree for an assessment of the amount due by each stockholder. The reason of this is plain. Upon the insolvency of
a corporation a, stockholder is liable for only so much of his
unpaid subscription as may be required to pay the creditors.
Hence, he may not be called upon in an arbitrary way to pay
any sum that an assignee or creditor may demand. It is,
therefore, requisite to ascertain, in an orderly manner, the
extent of the stockholders' liability before proceedings are
commenced to enforce it. But the necessity for this does not
exist when the whole amount is required to pay the debts.
Hence, in such cases, as was said in Yeager v. Scranton Bank,
supra,an assessment is not essential. Te assignee may sue at
once, for all is required."
At the trial in the present case, (see page 27 of the record,)
the counsel for the defendant consented to take the statement
of the company's clerk, without contradicting it, that the
assets of the company appeared to be $250,000 and the liabilities $270,000 to $275,000. It was not necessary, therefore, to
have a preliminary assessment against Wallace, as the jury
could have found, under the concession of his counsel, that
the entire amount of his unpaid stock was necessary to meet
the indebtedness of the corporation. We understand the concession to mean that the debts exceeded the assets, including
the unpaid subscriptions of the defendant and the other stockholders. If we are wrong in this, the defendant can show the
facts, and invoke, if he be so advised, the doctrine of The
Savings Bank v. Gillesie, if, indeed, that doctrine will avail
him.
We are now brought to the last and most substantial ground
urged by the defence, the one on which, we may conjecture,
that the court below chiefly relied in directing the jury to fin

OCTOBER TERf, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

their verdict for the defendant. It is thus expressed in the
brief of the defendant's counsel:
"All duties and obligations imposed upon the defendant by
his subscription were fully discharged and cancelled by the
refusal on the part of the company, yhile it continued solvent,
to receive the payment and performance tendered."
It may be readily conceded that if the evidence in the case
disclosed that the defendant's offer of payment and performance was refused by the company while solvent, and that the
defendant availed himself of such refusal, and declared himself off from his contract of subscription, the defendant was
thereby exonerated from the obligation of his subscription,
and that his liability to pay would not be revived by the
subsequent insolvency of the company and by the demands of
the assignee.
The record discloses a very different state of facts.
The defendant was himself one of the original corporators,
and was, by the articles of association, made one of the directors of the company. This position he continued to occupy
until July 6, 1880, which date, according to the uncontradicted evidence, was subsequent to the actual insolvency of the
company.
John Shotwell testified that he was treasurer and secretary
of the company from the time of its organization to its failure;
that he ascertained that the company was in embarrassed
circumstances in the spring of 1880 ; that he had a habit of
going to the defendant's offide, and talking with him about
the company's affairs; that the company's notes went to
protest in August. The resolution of the board to make the
assignment for the benefit of creditors was adopted on August
3, 1880.. Certainly, up until July 6, 1880, Wallace indicated
no intention to withdraw himself from the company. On the
contrary, he continued, from time to time, to declare his readiness to pay his subscription and to stand on his rights as a
stockholder. ie himself testified that he learned that the
company was in trouble in June, 1880; that the president
consulted with him in regard to the company's affairs after
that; that these consultations continued down to two or three

POTTS v. WALLACE.
Opinion of the Court.

months before the final collapse; that defendant's firm continued to be agents of the company up to the time of its failure; and that what he was seeinb the president about was
business connected with the company, the selling of goods and
collecting of accounts due, etc.; and that so long as he considered the stock good he was ready to take it and pay for it.
Even, therefore, if the company had, while solvent, refused
to receive payment and to issue a certificate of stock, the
evidence shows that the defendant did not elect to declare
himself absolved from his contract, but stood upon his rights,
as a stockholder and director, until the company's affairs had
become involved in embarrassment. It was then too late for
the defendant to change his position. If, on August 3, 1880,
the day on which the directors resolved to make an assignment, the affairs of the company had been prosperous and its
stock valuable, Wallace was still in a position to demand his
stock arid to compel payment to himself of any dividends that
might be declared.
So that, even if the company and the defendant had then
agreed that the latter should then be exonerated from his
liability to the company, such an agreement would have been
void as against the creditors of the insolvent company. In
Sawyer v. Hoag, Assignee, 17 Wall. 610, it was held that the
relations of a stockholder to the corporation, and to the public
who deal with the latter, are such as to require good faith and
fair dealing in any transaction between him and the corporation, of which he is part owner and controller, which may
injuriously affect the rights of creditors or of the general
public, and a rigid scrutiny will be made into all such transactions in the* interest of creditors; and that it was not competent for the insolvent company to make a valid agreement
with a stockholder to exonerate him from his liability. In
other words, the doctrine laid down was that the governing
officers of a corporation cannot, by agreement, or other transaction with the stockholder, release the latter from his obligation to pay, to the prejudice of its creditors, except by fair and
honest dealing and for a valuable consideration.
In -Hawley v. Utom, 102 U. S. 314, 316, it was said. -er

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

Waite, C. J., that "it cannot be doubted that one who has
become bound as a subscriber to the capital stock of a corporation must pay his subscription if required to. meet the obligations of the corporation. A certificate in his favor for the
stock is not necessary to make him a subscriber. All that need
be done, so far as creditors are concerned, is that the subscriber shall have bound himself to become a contributor to
the fund which the capital stock represents. If such an obligation exists, the courts can enforce the contribution when
required. After having bound himself to contribute, he cannot be discharged from the obligation he has assumed until
the contribution has actually been made, or the obligation in
some lawful way extinguished."
In Burke v. ,Smith, 16 Wall. 390, 394, it was said, per Strong,
J. : "It has been settled by very numerous decisions that the
directors of a company are incompetent to release an original
subscriber to its capital stock, or to make any arrangement
with him by which the company, its creditors or the State
shall lose the benefit of his subscription. Every such arrange]nent is regarded in equity not merely as ultra vires, but as a
fraud upon other stockholders, upon the public, and upon the
creditors of the company."
In Upton v. Tribilcock, 91 111. S. 45, it was held that "the
original holder of stock in a corporation is liable for unp6iid
instalments of stock without an express promise to pay them;
and a contract between a corporation, or its agents and him,
limiting his liability therefor, is void both as to the creditors
of the company and its assignee in bankruptcy."
It requires no argument to show that if a company cannot,
by agreement in any form, when in insolvent circumstances,
release. the obligation of a subscriber to its stock, much less
can it attain the same end by declining to accept payment of
his subscription; and it is equally obvious that, even if such
refusal is made when the company is supposed to be prosperous, yet if the stockholder declines to acquiesce in such refusal,
and persists in maintaining his position as a stockholder and
director until insolvency has supervened, it is then too late for
him to claim the benefit of the company's refusal.

POTTS v. WALLACE.
Opinion of the Court.

We have thus far dealt with this aspect of the case as if the
company had, in point of fact, refused to accept the defendant's subscription money and to recognize him as a stockholder. But an examination of the record shows that there
.was no such refusal by the company either before or after it
became insolvent.
The defendant's witnesses, consisting of Shotwell, the treasurer, of William Bispham, a partner of the defendant, and of
the defendant himself, testified that several times during the
year 1879 and the early part of 1880 the defendant had offered
to pay the amount of his subscription, which the treasurer refused to accept, and the treasurer testified that, in so refusing,
he was acting under the instructions of the president. But
the president, when called on behalf of the plaintiff, denied
that he had ever refused to accept the defendant's subscription
money or to give him his stock, and denied that he had ever
instructed the treasurer to do so.
With the testimony in this condition, the counsel of both
parties conceded of record that there was no question of fact
to be submitted to the jury, and requested the court to give
peremptory instructions to the jury, and the court accordingly
directed the jury to find for the defendant.
As the plaintiff had clearly made out a prima facie case
before the defendant went into his evidence, and as the defendant did not ask to go to the jury on the questions of fact,
he might well be regarded as having abandoned his defence
so far as that depended on the evidence adduced by himself,
and as having taken the position that the plaintiff's evidence
did not make out a case.
But, even if it should, for the sake of the argument, be conceded that the jury did find that the treasurer, in refusing to
accept the money, obeyed instructions given him by the president, such action on the part of the president was not the action
of the company, and did not bind the company or its creditors.
The president had no legal power or authority to deplete
the coffers of the company, by instructing the treasurer to
refuse ,to accept subscription money when tendered.
In Bank of the United States v. Dunn, 6 Pet. 51, it was
VOL. CXLVI-45

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

held that an agreement by the president and cashier that the
endorser on a note shall not be liable on his endorsement, does
not bind the bank; that it is not the duty of the cashier and
president to make such contracts, nor have they the power
to bind the bank, except in the .discharge of their ordinary
duties.
It is true that if the acts of the president are ratified by the
corporation, or if the corporation permits a general course of
conduct, or accepts the benefit of his act, they will be bound
by it. But the general rule is that the president cannot act
or contract for the corporation, except in the course of his
usual duties.
And the rule is still stronger against the power of the president to bind the corporation by giving up its securities or releasing claims in its favor.
In the present instance, there is no evidence whatever of
ratification by the directors of the alleged act of the president
in reference to the defendant's obligation. It does not appear
that they knew anything about it, and it is plain that the
company received no benefit from it.
Upon the facts disclosed by the record, we are clearly of
opinion that the court below erred in instructing the jury
to find for the defendant and in entering judgment on the
verdict.
The judgment is
Rieversed, with directions -to grant a new trial,and forfurtherproceedings in conformity with this opinion.

