JUNGE v. HEDDEN.
Statement of the Case.

JUNGE v. HEDDEN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 44. Argued November 15, 16, 1892.-Decided November 28,1892.

In construing tariff acts an article may be held to be enumerated, although
not specifically mentioned, if it be designated in a way to distinguish it
from other articles.
Arthur v. Butterfield, 125 U. S. 170, and fason v. .obertsvn, 139 U. S. 624,
cited and approved.
The meaning of the term " article," when used in a tariff act, considered.
Dental rubber, imported into the United States in 1885 was subject to a
duty of 25 per cent ad ralorem, as an article composed of india-rubber
not specially enumerated.

Tis was an action to recover an alleged excess of duties
exacted upon importations of dental rubber into the port of
New York in 1885.
The duty was assessed under the paragraph of Schedule N,
of section 2502 of the Revised Statutes, as reenacted by the
act of March 3, 1883, which reads: "Articles composed of
india-rubber, not specially enumerated or provided for in this
act, twenty-five per centum ad valorem." 22 Stat. 488, 513,
c. 121.
The substance of the protests is stated in the record as
follows: "Upon certain ' india-rubber in sheets,' claiming said
goods to be entitled to free entry under the provisions in the
free list for 'india-rubber' crude, act March 3, 1883; or, second, if deemed not crude, it is nevertheless not a manufactured
'article of rubber' in the meaning of the law, but is entitled to
free entry under the proviso of sec. 2499 of said act as crude ;
or, third, at no more than 20% ad val., as a partially manufactured, non-enumerated article, under sec. 2513, act March
3, 1883, (see sec. 2ad, act March 2, 1861, as to rubber in sheets,)
and not at 25% ad val. as charged by you."
The proviso of section 2499, and section 2513, thus referred
to, are:

OCTOBER TERAT, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

"_Provided, That non-enumerated articles similar in material
and quality and texture, and the use to which they may be
applied, to articles on the free list, and in the manufacture of
which no dutiable materials are used, shall be free." 22 Stat.
491.
."SEc. 2513. There- shall be levied, collected and paid on
the importation of all raw or unmanufactured articles, not
herein enumerated, or provided for, a duty of ten per centum
ad valoren; and all articles manufactured, in whole or in
part, not herein enumerated or provided for, a duty of twenty
per centum ad valorem." 22 Stat. 523.
Section 23 of the act of March 2, 1861, (12 Stat. 195, c. 68,)
the free list, contains this item: "India-rubber, in bottles,
slabs or sheets, unmanufactured."
The paragraph of Schedule N of section 2502 of the act of
March 3, 1883, under which the collector proceeded, is one of
three, reading as follows:
"India-rubber fabrics, composed wholly or in part of indiarubber, not specially enumerated or provided for in this act,
thirty per centum ad valorem.
"Articles composed of india-rubbet, not specially enumerated or provided for in this act, twenty-five per centum ad
valorem.
"India-rubber boots and shoes, twenty-five per centum ad
valorem."
In the free list (section 2503) is to be found: "India-rubber,
crude and milk of." p. 519.
Upon the trial various exhibits of crude rubber, washed
rubber, dental rubber and dental plates, were put in evidence,
and the proofs established that these importations were dental
rubber, which was commercially so known and fit for dental
purposes only.
It further appeared that dental rubber was crude rubber put
through a masticator by which it was torn up and shredded
into a state of pulp, sulphur and coloring matter added, and
the mass rolled into sheets, cut into proper sizes and backed
with linen to prevent the pieces from sticking together ; that
the heat of the mill, or masticator, was not a vulcanizing heat,

JUNGE v. HEDDEN.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

but sufficient to render the rubber elastic. The Circuit Court,
Lacombe, J., refused to direct the jury to find for the plaintiff,
but on the contrary directed a verdict for the defendant.
There was a verdict and judgment accordingly, and plaintiff
sued out this writ of error. The opinion of Judge Lacombe
will be found in 37 Fed: Rep. 197.
-Mr. Edwin B. Smith for plaintiff in error.
The question presented is, whether the court below ought
not to have directed a verdict for the plaintiff instead of directing one for the defendant.
The prima facie presumption in favor of the collector's
assessment is easily overcome by an examination of the phraseology of this statute, comparing it with that employed in
other tariffs, and with those facts so generally known as to be
of judicial cognizance. It will be perceived that there has
always been a distinction maintained as to the condition of
the rubber itself, whether crude or otherwise; between "boots
and shoes" (and other specified things) and unspecified "articles composed of india-rubber" and "india-rubber fabrics"
this marked difference between the last two being perpetuated
that the "articles" must be composed wholly of rubber,
while the "fabrics" might be only in part of that material.
22 Stat. 513; Heyl. A. D. 188-, Paragraphs 453, 454, 455 and
724; Arthur v. Davies, 96 U. S. 135; Beard v. -Yichols, 120
U. S. 260; -Lawrencev. Allen, 7 How. 792; Act of July 14,
1832, 4 Stat. 583, 590, c. 227, ยง 3; Act of March 2, 1833, 4
Stat. 632, c. 57; Act of September 11, 1841, 5 Stat. 463; Act
of August 30, 1842, 5 Stat. 548, 555, c. 270, ยง 5; Act of July
30, 1846, 9 Stat. 42, 45, 48, c. 74, Schedules C and G ; Act of
March 3, 1857, 11 Stat. 192, c. 98; Act of March 2, 1861, 12
Stat. 178, c. 68 ; Act of August 5, 1861, 12 Stat. 292, c. 45;
Act of July 14, 1862, 12 Stat: 543, 552, 556, 557, e. 163; Act
of June 6, 1872, 17 Stat. 230, 232, c. 315.
As a result of the comparison of the previous legislation
with that under which these duties were assessed, we maintain:

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument for rlaintiff in Error.

(1) That there is a distinction made in all between raw
rubber crude, which is free, and raw rubber purified, which is
dutiable as unmanufactured.
]2ecknagel v. Xurphy, 102
U. S. 197.
(2) That a distinction is created, or recognized, between
partially india-rubber "fabrics," and those "articles" of which
it is the sole component. That the word "articles" might
include alike those of a specified substance, manufactured or
unmanufactured,.may be true (as, in ยง 2500, it includes everything capable of being imported); but such extended, comprehensive meaning, in the present connection, is negatived by
the immediately precedent use of the word "fabrics," which
might otherwise be lexicographically included therein.
Neither is it at all pertinent to the construction of this paragraph that, in other parts of the statute, the context requires
or indicates the comprehensive meaning. United States v.
Fisher, 2 Cranch, 358, 387. Where lexicographers and common speech affix several meanings to any word, that one must
be adopted in construing a statute which best accords with the
context, and with its ordinary use with relation to that subject matter. While all fabrics and all manufactures may be
"articles," some articles are neither, and many manufactures
are not fabrics. .fovius v..Artur, 95 U. S. 144, 147; Barber
v. ScheZl, 107 U. S. 617, 621.
Nobody has ever suggested that our importations were
"fabrics." We did not so import, nor the Government so
duty them. But we have elaborated the distinction in order
to show that "articles" in the next clause (wrongly appflied to
our importations) has not the general, comprehensive. meaning
assigned to it by the collector and the court. The specific
designation of "india-rnbber boots and shoes" at the same
rate as "articles," shows that it was not deemed possible to
classify them as "fabrics," nor to duty them as "articles" when
not wholly of rubber- which for many years they have seldoin been, although they,were so originally. lawrence v.
.Allen, 7 How. 785.
(3) The manipulation and the combination of the several
constituents left the resulting article still rubber. Independ-

JUNGE v. HEDDEN.
Counsel for Defendant in Error.

ent patents, for the process and the product have both been
declared valid, because the new process resulted in a new and
useful article. Goodyear v. Wait, 5 Blatchford, 468, 470; Goodyear v. Day, 2 Wall. Jr. C. C. 283, 295.
The cause at bar comes within the principle of MAeyer v.

Arthur, 91 U. S. 570, and those in which the admixture has
not substantially changed the character of the ingredients.
In the Meyer case, lead had, by the mere application of heat,
lost its metallic character. In ours, the same mysterious
chemical agent conferred upon the rubber and* sulphur a
metallic character.
We do not assent to the proposition of the court below that
the enumeration of "articles of rubber" must not be restricted
to those substantially of rubber, though an hmmaterial addition of some other substance might be inconsequential. An
article made of rubber and other ingredients cannot be said to
be a manufacture of the one component any more than the
other; especially (as already noted) where the other substances fundamentally change the character of the rubber, in
its essential qualities. With or without the word " wholly"
india-rubber is as much a designation "of quality and material" as is the word "cotton." Barber v. Schell, 107 U. S.
617, 621.
When Congress does not intend that the import shall be
entirely of the-specified material,'it indicates such intention
by use of the words," or of which it is a component," or (as
in the clause relating to fabrics of india-rubber) by saying
"wholly or in part," or some such equivalent expression. The
word "wholly" is superfluous except when used in connection with "or in part."
Our goods were made either of rubber and sulphur, or of
these materials with one-fourth value of coloiing matter. The
rubber (as a raw material) is free. This makes section 2513 of
the act of 1883 applicable to our goods upon the reasoning of
the court in Hartranft v. Sheppard, 125 U. S. 337, 338.
Hr. Assistant Attorney General Maury for defendant in
error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. CmEF JUSTICE

FULLEr, after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
In Arthur v. Butterfeld, 125 U. S. 70, 76, it was said by
Mr. fustice Field, speaking for the court : "To place articles
among those designated as enumerated, it is not necessary
that they should be specifically mentioned. It is sufficient
that they are designated in any way to distinguish them from
other articles." And this language was quoted with approval
as defining the general scope of the similitude clause in the
customs acts, in _Mason v. R.obertson, 139 U. S. 6241, 627, in

which it was held that bichromate of soda was subject to the
duty of twenty-five per centum ad valorem imposed under the
act of March 3, 1883, c. 121, upon "all chemical compounds
and salts, by whatever name known," and not subject, by
virtue of the similitude clause, to the duty of three cents per
pound imposed on bichromate of potash.
If these importations should be held as enumerated, within
the rule thus laid down, then sections 2499 and 2513 have no
application. And this is no more than to inquire whether
they came within the paragraph prescribing the tax on "articles composed of indi-rubber."
In common usage, "article" is applied to almost every separate substance or material, whether as a member of a class,
or as a particular substance or commodity.
The learned Circuit Judge was of opinion that the word
"articles" was used in this paragraph in a broad sense, and
covered equally things manufactured, things unmanufactured
and things partially manufactured, and he sustained -this view
by reference to the use of the word elsewhere in the statute.
Thus, in section 2500, relating to reimportations, they are
referred to as "articles once exported of the growth, product
or manufacture of the United States." Sectiorn 2502 commences: "There shall be levied, collected and paid upon all
articles imported from foreign countries, and mentioned in the
schedules herein contained, the rates of duty," etc. Section
2503 reads: "The following articles when imported shall be
exempt from duty," and then fQllows the free list, including

JUNGE v.. -HEDDEN.
Opinion of the Court.

"articles imported for the use of the United States," and
" articles, the growth, produce and manufacture of the United
States' We agree with the Circuit Court that the word must
be taken comprehensively and cannot be restricted to articles
put in condition for final use, but embmeastas well things
manufactured only in part, or not at all.
But it is said that this dental rubber is not "composed of
india-rubber" within the intent and meaning of the statute,
because of the admixture of sulphur and coloring matter, or,
in other words, that it is not wholly so composed. The prior
tariff act in ยง 2504 of the Revised Statutes (Rev. Stat. 477) contained the same paragraph as that under consideration, except
that it read, "articles composed wholly of india-rubber." The
preceding paragraph related to " braces, suspend.ers, webbing
or other fabrics, composed wholly or in part of india-rubbei3."
The act of 1883 retained the words "wholly or in part" as
applied to fabrics, but omitted the word " wholly " in connection with articles. It is not to be doubted that this omission.
was advisedly made. The manifest intention was that articles.
of india-rubber should not escape the prescribed taxation because of having been subjected to treatment fitting them for a
particular use, but not changing their essential character.
Such is the fact with the article in question. It has not lost
its identity by a chemical change, and, become a new and different species. It is not crude rubber, nor milk of rubber, nor
is it a fabric of rubber, but it is rubber rendered elastic and
more attractive by coloring.
Nor are we impressed with the argument that, being rubber
itself, it must be regarded as a material and not an article
composed of rubber, for its adaptation to dental purposes has
differentiated it commercially. Washing and scouring wool
does not make the resulting wool a manufacture of wool;
cleaning and ginning cotton does not make the resulting
cotton a manufacture of cotton; but sulphur and coloring
matter, when applied as here, make the resulting rubber,
while still remaining rubber, an .article of rubberI as contradistinguished from rubber crude or rubber merely cleansed
of impurities.
Judgment afflrmed.

