OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

We repeat that the main question arising for consideration
is one of power and not of policy, and we are unable to arrive
at any other conclusion than that the act of the legislature of
Michigan of May 1, 1891, is not void as in contravention of
the Constitution of the United States for want of power in its
enactment.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Michigan must be
.Ajji'm ed.

VAIN WINKLE v. CROWELL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STA TES FOR THE
MIDDLE DISTRICT OF ALABA4A.
No. 23. Argued and submitted, March 30, 1892.-Decided October 31, 1892.

By a contract in writing V. agreed to make for B. certain cotton-seed oilmill machinery, at a fixed price. It was made and shipped to B. and not
paid for. B. put it into use and afterwards executed to L. a mortgage
covering it. V. then brought a suit in detinue against C. a bailee of L.
for the property. L. was made a co-defendant. After the mortgage was
given, B. eecuted to V. notes for what was due to V. for the purchase
money of the machinery, which stated that the express condition of the
delivery of the machinery was that the title to it did not pass from V.
until the purchase-money was paid in full. Held that the terms of the
written contract could not be varied by parol evidence.
The condition of the title to the machinery at and before the giving of the
mortgage was a conclusion of law to be drawn from the undisputed facts
of the case.
It was proper to direct the jury to find for the defendant.

THIS was an action of detinue brought November 8, 1886,

in the Circuit Court of Bullock County, Alabama, by E. Van
Winkle and W. W. Boyd, copartners as E. Van Winkle & Co.,
against Canty Crowell, to recover certain machinery belongi ng to and constituting a cotton-seed oil mill.
The plaintiffs being citizens of Georgia and the defendant a
citizen of Alabama, the suit was removed by the latter into
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Middle District
of Alabama. After its removal, and in November, 1887, the
latter court allowed Emanuel Lehman, Meyer Lehman, Joseph
Goeter, and John W. Durr, composing the firm of Lehman,

VAN WINKLE v. CROWELL.
Statement of the Case.

Durr & Co., and Ignatius Pollak, doing business under the
firm name of Pollak & Co., all citizens of New York and Alabama, to make themselves parties defendant to the suit, and
they filed pleas. The pleas were to the effect that Crowell
(lid not unlawfully detain the property sued for, as alleged
in the complaint; and that it was not, at the time of the
commencement of the suit, and had not since been, and
was not, at the time of putting in the pleas, the property of
the plaintiffs, but of the defendants pleading. The case was
tried before a jury, which rendered a verdict for the defendants; and there was a judgment for them, with- costs. The
plaintiffs brought the case here by a writ of error.
The controversy was in fact one between the plaintiffs on
one part, and Lehman, Durr & Co. and Pollak & Co. on the
other part. Lehman, Durr & Co. claimed the property under
a mortgage executed to them, December 4, 1885, by Samuel
S. Belser and Langdon C. rarker, and their wives, to secure a
debt of $30,000, with interest, and covering one and threefourths acres of land in Bullock County, on which was an oil
mill, together with the machinery therein, other land in Montgomery County, and certain other personal property. Pollak
& Co. claimed under a mortgage executed to them January 2,
1886, to secure a debt of $15,000, and covering land in Montgomery County, the oil-mill land in Bullock County, the
improvements thereon and appurtenances belonging thereto,
and other personal property. At the time suit was brought
against Crowell, the property in question was in his possession
as bailee of the mortgagees. The property had been manufactured by the plaintiffs for Belser and Parker under a written
contract signed by the latter, and accepted by the former, in
the terms set forth in the margin.' At the date of the paper,
S. S. Belser.
E. B. Gray.
L. C. Parker.
Parker, Gray and Belser, dealers in general merchandise.
MITCHrLL'S STATION, ALA., March 28, 1885.
Messrs. E. Van Winkle & Co., Atlanta, Ga.
GENFTs: You will please ship to us, at Mitchell's Station, Ala., the following oil-mill machinery, to wit, for which we agree to pay you the sum of
twelve thousand five hundred dollars ($12,500):

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

one of the plaintiffs visited Belser and Parker, and himself
wrote the paper, which lBelser and Parker signed and delivered
to him. No other agreement was made than the one contained
in that paper.
By that contract, the plaintiffs obliged themselves (1) to ship
to Belser and Parker the machinery named therein ; (2) to pay
the freight thereon to Mitchell's Station, the place to which
it was to be shipped; and (3) to furnish the mechanics to erect
the machinery there. Belser and Parker, by the terms of the
contract, agreed (1) to furnish all rough labor and the board
of the men engaged in the work, and (2) to pay $12,501 for
the machihery, namely, $3000 on the receipt of the bill of
lading, $1750 on. November 1, 1885, and $1750 on March 1,
1886, with interest at eight per cent from the date of starting
the mill.

There was a great deal of delay in shipping the machinery, and
much complaint on tlie part of Belser and Parker. The building in which the machinery was placed was erected by Belser
One set of'oil-mill machinery complete, with capacity to work thirty tons
of cotton-seed per day, as follows
4 hydraulic presses.
4 steam-heaters.
2 hullers.
4 linters, feeders, and condensers.
All line and centre shafting, all steam and oil pipes, all pulleys, hangers
&c.; one hydraulic pump of six plungers, one oil pump, one cake breaker
& cake grinding mill, one sett of crushing .ollers. one sett of separating
machinery, all elevators -and conveyers, three seventy-saw gins, with
feeders and condensers; two cotton presses, all-, shafting, for gins and
presses, all pulleys complete, all belting but main belt for oil mill, belting
for gin-house not included-this to mean, in fact, all machinery-and appurtenances necessary to operate an oil mill and gin-house of above-described
capacity. It is agreed that you are to lay down the mach'y at Mitchell's
Sta. and pay all freight and furnish the mechanics to erect the same; we to
furnish all rough labor and board of men. We agree to pay you for machinery as follows:
$3000.00 on receipt of bill of lading.
64750.00 (four thousand seven hundred and fifty dollars) on the first day
of November ensuing, and like amount, $4750.00, first day. of March ensuing, with interest at 8 per cent from date of starting mill.
Yours respect'y, etc., etc.,

BmEsm & PAuKER.

VAN WINKLE v. CROWELL.
Statement of the Case.

and Parker after the contract for the machinery was made. It
was constructed for the purpose of being used as a cotton-seed
oil mill; and the machinery furnished was such as was essential for only such a mill. The machinery was manufactured
by the plaintiffs at Atlanta, Georgia, and at various times
was placed by them on. railroad cars at Atlanta, consigned to
Belser and Parker at Mitchell's Station, Alabama. During
the progress of the work, Belser and Parker paid to the plaintiffs $2500 on their drafts drawn according to the contract,
and also paid out for freight and other expenses, which the
plaintiffs had agreed to pay, sums amounting to $500. The
machinery was in place so that the mill could be operated
prior to December 1, 1885; and Belser and Parker commenced operating it in November, 1885. There was some
evidence that after December 10, 1885, the plaintiffs supplied
some additional machinery, but the evidence did not identify
it. The land on which the bi.ilding stood in which the machinery was placed belonged to Belser and Parker.
On December 4. 1885, the date of the mortgage to Lehman,
Durr & Co., Belser and Parker were indebted to that firm in
debts which were then due. They obtained from Lehman,
Durr. & Co. an extension of those debts and also further
advances, making a total indebtedness of $30,000, for which
the mortgage was given. It was recorded in the proper office
on the 3d of February, 1886, within three months after its
execution. On the 2d of January, 1886, the date of the mortgage to Pollak & Co., Belser and Parker owed to Pollak &Co. debts which were past due; and an agreement was then
made for their extension, and new advances were made,
the whole amounting to $15,000. The mortgage was duly
recorded on February 4, 1886.
On the 11th *of December, 1885, one of the plaintiffs visited
1Be]ser and Parker, and with one of the latter inspected the
mill. It was agreed between them that certain additional
machinery should be provided, and other portions changed,
but what portions does not appear; and that the balance due
for the machinery should be settled by three notes, dated
December 11, 1885, and signed by Belser and Parker, one for

OCTOBER TERMI,

1892.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

$1500, with interest at eight per cent per annum, due February 1, 1886; a second of like tenor for $3500, due March 1,
1886; and a third for $4633.52, due December 1, 1886. The
first one of the three notes read as in the margin,' and the
others corresponded mutatis mutandis.
-Mr. W. A. Gunter,and XPe. John D. Poquemore,for plaintiffs in error, submitted op their brief.
The property sued for was personal. There was evidence
tending to show that it had no such attachment to the land
as to malke it a part of the realty, which, of course, on the
unqualified direction given to the jury to find for the defendants, must be taken as true in favor of the plaintiffs in error.
But, independently of this, the rule is that personal property
does not become realty even in favor of mortgagees or purclhasers, if the agreements between the vendor of the personalty and the owner of the land-preserves as between them, its
character as personalty, as was the case in this instance. Ford
V. Cobb, 20 N. Y. 344; Russell v. Richards,1 Fairf. 10 Maine,
429; S.. C. 25 Am. Dec. 25-; Tift v. Horton, 53 N. Y. 377;
SissoA 4. _libabrd,75 N. Y. 542; Globe .Afarble Co. v. Queinn,
76 N. Y. n3; Foster v. -3labe, 4 Alabama, 402; S. 0. 37 Am.
Dec. 749; Harrisv. Powers, 57 Alabama, 139.
The written order given by Belser & Parker was a mere
proposition; it did not contain the contract on the part of
1,91500.00

Pn,

ROAD, ALA., Dec. 11th, 1885.

On or before the first day of.February, 1886, we promise to pay to E. Van
Winkle & Co. or order fifteen hundred and 00-100 dollars, for value received,
with interest from date until paid at the rate of eight per cent per annum,
and also all costs of collection. - The benefit of any and all homestead or
exemption laws is waived as to this note. The above is for purchase-money
of one cotton-seed oil-mill machinery built at Mitchell's Station, Ala., which
E. Van Winkle & Co.,have this day agreed to sell to Messrs. Belser & Parker,
of Pike Road, Ala. : :and it is the express condition. of the delivering of the
said property that the title to the same does not pass from E. Van Winkle
& Co. until the purchase-money and interest is paid in full.
In testimony whereof
have"hereunto set
hands and seal.
Payable at
- BELSEn & PARKER.
[SEAL.]

VAN WINKLE v. CROWELL.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

Van Winkle & Co., and as there was no writing showing it,
parol evidence was the only source of information open.
But even if the order expressed the whole arrangement and
contract, it is plain that it would be competent to prove by
parol, when the machinery was accepted by the purchasers as
their property, and that it had the conditions stipulated for in
the contract, and likewise to explain the character of the possession prior to acceptance by the vendees.
No specific machinery was bought so as to pass the property, but it was all to be manufactured, and was to be a complete set, and to possess the capacity of working thirty tons of
cotton seed per day. These "conditions" necessarily operated
to retain the property in the vendors until the vendees accepted
the machinery, with the vendors' consent, as their property.
Notwithstanding the machinery may have been exactly
conformable to the stipulations of the contract, it would not,
under such agreement, belong to the vendees until there was a
meeting of the minds of the vendors and vendees on the point
of tender by one and acceptance by the other. And this,
notwithstanding the possession of the machinery may, prior
thereto, have been with the vendees. Cleveland Polling .Mill
v. Rhodes, 121 U. S. 255.
There was an unqualified right therefore, on the part of
the plaintiffs in error, to show by parol when there was an
actual acceptance of the property in the goods by the vendees,
and to explain the character and purpose of their prior possession. And the court evidently committed an error in denying
this right.
The mortgage to Lehman, Durr & .Co. being made on the
4th December, 1885, prior to the passing of the property in
the machinery to Belser & Parker, which took place on the
11th December, 1885, gave no right against the plaintiffs in
error, and was no defence to their action.
The mortgage to Pollak & Co., in January, 1886, after
Belser & Parker had acquired the conditional title, dependent
upon the payment of the purchase-money to the plaintiffs in
error, gave them only the title of Belser & Parker. There is
no such thing as a 6ona fide purchase of personal property, so

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

as to defeat the legal title. Fairbanksv. Eureka Co., 67 Alabama, 109; Sumner v. MVoods, 67 Alabama, 139; Irarhne.s v.
.Russell, 118 U. S. 663 ;-cTelegraph Co. v. Davenport, 97 U. S.
369, 372; .Fosdickv. Schall, 99 U. S. 235.
.Mr. H. C. Tompkins for defendants in error.
Mn. JUSTIcE ]BLATCHFORD, after stating the case as above
reported, delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiffs rely for a recovery of the property on title
claimed under the three notes. All of the machinery except
a few pieces, which were not pointed out by the evidence, had
been received and was in use by Belser and Parker prior to
December 1, 1885; and no work of construction was done
after the latter date on the mill or the machinery. Testimony
was given by E. Van Winkle, one of the plaintiffs, that they
did not turn over the machinery -to Belser and Parker (otherwise than by shipping it and permitting Belser and Parker to
operate it) until upon the settlement made after such inspection in December, 1885; and that Belser and Parker, prior to
that time, did not accept the machinery as a compliance with
the contract, and then only accepted it conditionally upon the
plaintiffs' supplying and changing certain parts of the machinery. That testimony was admitted against the objection of
the defendants, and then on their motion was excluded; and
to the latter action of the court the plaintiffs excepted.
The same witness testified that the machinery was manufactured under a guarantee, and that the plaintiffs permitted
its operation by Belser and Parker in order that it might be

fully tested. That testimony was objected to when offered,
but was admitted, and was -then excluded on motion of the
defendants; to which action of the court the plaintiffs excepted.
It was also testified that, under the terms of the contract
for the machinery, the plaintiffs were to erect it, but the testimony, on motion of the defendants, was excluded on the
ground that the written contract was the evidence of what

VAN WINKLE v. CROWELL.
Opinion of the Court.

the plaintiffs agfeed to do. To that ruling of the court the
plaintiffs excepted.
All that testimony, we think, was properly excluded.
E. Van Winkle testified that he made no contract with Belser
and Parker except the one contained in the written order
from them which he accepted. That contract contained no
guarantee, except the implied guarantee that the machinery
should be reasonably fit for the uses for which it was sold.
It contained an express direction to the plaintiffs to ship the
machinery to Belser and Parker at Mitchell's Station, Alabama, and an express provision that the plaintiffs were to
furnish a specified part of the force necessary to erect the
machinery. The plaintiffs were never in possession of the
mill.
The condition of the title to the machinery, on and prior to
December 4, 1885, was a conclusion of law, to be drawn from
the undisputed facts of the case; and the witness could not
testify to such legal conclusion. The contract contained no
stipulation that Belser and Parker were to be allowed to test
the machinery before accepting it. Moreover, any provisions
in regard to erecting or testing the machinery would have been
for the benefit of Belser and Parker, and could have been
waived by them. They had a right to accept it without testing it, and even before its erection; apd the plaintiffs had no
right to insist that it should not be accepted until after those
things had been done. Whenever Beher and Parker did any
act which showed that they had waived those things and
accepted the machinery, the title to it vested at once in them.;
and, as to innocent purchasers, such as the mortgagees were,
the title could not be revested in the plaintiffs. Belser and
Parker manifested their acceptance of the machinery by giving
the mortgages, after having used and operated it.
By the terms of the contract, one of the payments was to be
made by Belser and Parker on their receipt from the plaintiffs
of the bill of lading; and under that provision, the title passed
to Belser and Parker as soon as they received the machinery,
if not before. By the transfer of the property by Belser and
Parker, by the mortgages, after they had received it, the title
VOL. cxLvI--4

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

vested in the mortgagees. The latter were bona fide purchasers for value. By the statute of Alabama, three months
were allowed for the recording of the mortgages. Code of
Alabama of 1876, ยง 2166. The title to the machinery was in
Belser and Parker when the mortgages were executed. The
notes given December 11, 1885, conferred no title which related
back to a prior date. The most favorable construction that
could be given to them would be that they constituted a mortgage executed on December 11, 1885; and prior to that date
the mortgage to Lehman, Durr & Co. had been given. If the
plaintiffs could recover at all in this suit, it must be against all
of the defendants. They could not recover against Crowell,
because he held as bailee of all the other defendants. If the
title of Lehman, Durr & Co. was better than that of the
plaintiffs, Crowell did not detain the propeirty wrongfully ; and
the gist of the action was that he wrongfully detained it at
the time the suit was brought.
If the notes of December 11, 1885, vested any title in the
plaintiffs, those notes "were never recorded, and there is no
evidence that Pollak & Co. had any notice of the claim of the
plaintiffs under those notes, at the time Poll '- & Co. took
their mortgage. Therefore, that mortgage divested whatever
title the plaintiffs may have had, as against Pollak & Co.
Tinder ยง 2170 of the Code of Alabama of 1876, it was necessary that the plaintiffs, so far as concerned any title claimed
by them under the notes of December 11, 1885, should have
recorded the notes as a conveyance of personal property.
Moreover, it is shown that, prior to the commencement of the
present suit, the plaintiffs, in May, 1886, filed a mechanics' lien
as respected the machinery made under the contract of March
28, 1885, admitting a credit for the $2500 and the $500, and
claiming a lien under said contract and under the three notes
of December 11, 1885; that in July, 1886, they commenced
a suit in a court of the State of Alabama to enforce that lien;
and that that suit was dismissed by the plaintiffs without
a trial on the merits, before the trial of the present suit was
had. The assertion of that lien treated the property as the
property of Belsz and Parker, and did so after the notes of

VANT WINKLE v. CROWELL.
Opinion of the Court.

December 11, 1885, were taken. It was inconsistent with
the existence in the plaintiffs of a title to the property. It
treated the- sale of the property to Belser and Parker as
unconditional.
In Lehman v. Van Winkle, 8 Southern
Reporter, 870, the Supreme Court of -Alabama held that by
the suit to enforce the lien, Van Winkle & Co. made an
election to treat the title to the property as in Belser and
Parker, and that that election could not be affected by a
subsequent attempt to obtain the property by an action of
detinue. The proceedings to enforce the lien were pending
when the present suit was brought, in November, 1886.
On the whole case, we are of opinion that the trial
court acted correctly in instructing the jury to find for the
defendants, if they believed the evidence. Even if the plaintiffs were entitled to recover for any articles furnished to
Belser and Parker after December 4, 1885, the burden was
upon them to identify the articles which Belser and Parker
received after that date; but no evidence of such identification
was introduced.
The plaintiffs asked the court to give to the jury .eight
several charges, which are set forth in the margin, 1 "but the
I Charges asked by the plaintiffs and refused.
1. That if the evidence shows that the bomplainants were the manufacturers of the machinery in question, that would constitute them the owners
until by some complete act of sale the title passed to some other person.
And there is no complete act of sale until there has been, between the
buyer and the seller, a full agreement of their minds, on the part of the
vendor to part with his ownership of the property, and of the vendee (or
buyer) to accept and receive the property as a full compliance on the part
of the seller with his agreement. When this agreement of the minds of
the buyer and the seller takes place in any given instance is a question of
intention to be determined by a onsideration of the situation and surroundings of the parties and the subject matter of the contract and the
stipulations to be observed and performed by the parties with respect
thereto. The burden of showing satisfactorily that the title has passed
from the original owner to a buyer, rests upon the buyer. if he affirms that
a sale has taken place; and when the contract is for articles to be manufactured, or for articles in existence at the date of the contract, with or about
which the seller, under the terms of the contract, was to do something to put
them in such condition as he could insist upon an acceptance by the buyer, or

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

court severally refused to give each of said charges, and to
each such refusal the plaintiffs duly excepted. Each of said
as is commonly said, in a deliverable state, the property does not pass from
the vendor to the vendee unless it is shown satisfactorily that there was a
specific intent of the parties that it should do so contrary to the ordinary
course of business. The presumption is against such intent under such
circumstances and must be shown by the party asserting it.
2. In a case of doubt the construction which the parties themselves have
put upon a contract is of great assistance in arriving at its true meaning.
If the contract in this instance was for the purchase of certain cotton-seed
oil-mill machinery as a complete mill, which was to be transported to a
given place and to be put up by the vendor, or for the putting up of which
he was to do anything, such as furnishing mechanics, etc., and which
machinery was to be of a given capacity, the presumption of law would be
that the property would not pass from the vendor until the latter had completed the mill as a whole, and the vendee had unconditionally accepted it as
a fulfilment of the contract; and such acceptance must be notified to the
yendor. The doing of secret or fraudulent acts by the vendee in transactions with third persons which might estop him from saying lie was not
the owner as against the person with whom he dealt would have no operation whatever against the vendor; and in this case the making of the mortgage by Belser and Parker to Lehman, Durr & Co. cannot be regarded as of
any_ force as evidence to show the necessary agreement of the minds of
E. Van Winkle & Co. and Belser and Parker as to the relinquishment of the
right of property by one and the full acceptance of the property by the
other as a compliance with the contract; and until such mutual agreement
of the minds of the vendor and vendee is shown the property would remain
with the vendor, notwithstanding the buyer should in the meantime execute
mortgages or make absolute sales of the property. In such case the vendee cannot alone elect to regard the property as passing, and certainly not
by any secret or perhaps fraudulent act. The vendor must also agree to
the relinquishment of his right of property, which right may be of importance to the vendor to secure the performance of contemporaneous acts to
be done by the buyer, such as making payments falling due before the contract has been fully completed.
3. In the present instance, no right of property passed to the vendee
(Belser & Parker) at the time of making the contract. The contract itself
contemplated certain things to be done by both the buyer and the seller
before any property could pass under the contract to the buyer, and the
law is (unless a specific intent is shown to the contrary by the party alleging it) that the property will not in such cases pass until each party has
done all that the contract requires to be done before the property is in that
condition int which it may be tendered as a full compliance with the contract, and there must be such a tender or delivery of the property to the
buyer and such full acceptance by the buyer, and such acceptance and

VAN WINKLE v. CROWELL.Opinion of the Court.

charges was separately asked and separately refused and each
refusal separately excepted to by the plaintiffs." We think
the court properly refused to give those charges. The questions involved in them have been substantially considered in
what has been hereinbefore said, and it is not necessary to
make any further remarks upon them.

Judgment ajfimed.

MR. JUSTIOE SHIPAS was not a member of the court when
this case was argued, and took no part in its decision.
tender cannot in either case be by secret acts. The law contemplates notice
to each party and the mutual assent of their minds to the act of relinquishment of the property by the vendor and its acquirement by the buyer.
4. The payment of instalments prior to or during the progress of the
acts to be done by either or both of the parties before the property is in a
deliverable state under the contract is not inconsistent with the retention
of the property in the vendor.
5. When machinery is to be put up on the premises of the buyer and is
to be of a certain quality or capacity under the terms-of the contract, the
possession and use of the machinery by the buyer, with the consent of the
seller, for the purpose of testing its quality or capacity prior to the full
acceptance of the machinery as a compli ince with the contract .and the
relinquishment of the vendor's right of the property, is not inconsistent
with the property being with the vendor, notwithstanding such possession.
Neither party would be estopped by such a possession.
6. That the jury are to determine under all the evidence whose property
the machinery in question was, by mutual understanding of Besler and
Parker & E. Van Winkle & Co. up to the 11th of Dec., 1885, and if they
find that up to that time there was no mutual agreement or understanding
between them whereby it vested in Belser and Parker, or that they (Belser
and Parker) refused to accept it as a fulflIment of the contract up to that
time and only accepted it at that time and then gave the plaintiffs the notes
in evidence, the plaintiffs' right is superior to that of Lehman, Durr & Co.,
and to that of any of the defendants.
7. That the plaintiffs are entitled to recover such property as was fur.
nished after the l1th of Dec., 1885.
8. That it is a question of intention of the parties as to when the
property in the machinery passed to Belser and Parker, and the jury are
the judges as to when they both intended that it should pass, and if they
believe that they did not so mutually intend that it should pass until the
settlement and adjus~ment on the llth of Dec., 1885, the plaintiffs' rights
are superior to those of Lehman, Durr and Co. and to those of any of the
defendants.

