OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

STOTESBURY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 30. Argued November 11, 1892. -Decided

November 21, 1892.

A decision by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue on an application for
the refunding of'taxes collected, authorizing the same to be refunded,
which was made under the authority conferred upon him by the act of
July 13, 1866, c.184, § 9, 14 Statutes, pages 98, 109, 111, (Rev. Stat.
§ 3220) and was reported to the Secretary of the Treasury for his consideration and advisement July 26, 1871, under the Treasury Regulations
then in force, is held by the court not to have been a final decision, but
to have been subject to revision by the secretary and to be returned by
him to the succeisor of the Commissioner for reLixamination.

ON December 19, 1870, the firm of Harris & Stotesbury
appealed to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue for the
refunding of $67,335.85, internal revenue taxes claimed to
have been erroneously assessed and collected from them. This
claim was examined and rejected and 'notice thereof given to
the claimants. An application for a rehearing was made and
sustained. On July 26, 1871, the Commissioner having examined the claim, signed and transmitted to the Secretary of the
Treasury the following schedule:
"No. 99. - -A schedule of clairhs for the refunding of taxes erroneously assessed and paid which have been examined and allowed, and are transmitted
to the Secretary ,f the Treasuy for his consideration and advisement in accordance with regz4lations dated January12, 1866.
District.,

Claitpants.

Amount.

Disposi.
tion. Reason of disposition.

1st Penn. Harrs & Stotesbury $67,335 85 Allowed Were not sugar-refin"
ers within the defluiHartis, Heylk,& Co. 26,642 96
t ion of section 75 of
£
an act to provide internal revenue, etc.,
approved July 1,1862,
as amended by the
act approved March
3, 1863.
"I hereby certify that the forgoing claims for the refunding of taxes
erroneously assessed and paid hare been examined and allowed, and are
transmitted to the Secretary of the 'Treasury fbr his consideration and adA. PLEASONTON, Commissioner."
visement.

STOTESBURY 6. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

On August 8, 1871, Commissioner Pleasonton resigned, and
on the next day J. W. Douglass, having been duly appointed
his successor, entered upon the discharge of the duties of the
office. On that day the Secretary of the Treasury sent to
him this letter:
"TREASURY
"WASHINGTON , D.

DEPARTMIENT,
C., August 9, 1871.

"Sm: The enclosed refunding claims of Harris & Stotesbury and Harris, Heyle & Co., transmitted by your predecessor to this office for approval, would seem to have been passed
by a reversal of the construction of the law relative to sugar
manufactures which obtained during the whole period of its
existence.
"Under these circumstances I deem it proper to return
them to you for reexamination, declining to consider them
tinless again submitted by your office.
"Respectfully yours,
GEo. S. BOUTWELL,
"Secretary of the Treasury.
"Hon. J. W. Douglass, Com'r of Int. Revenue."
And on the 9th of November, 1871, the Commissioner endorsed on the claim these words: "November 9, 1871. RejeeLed on reexamination. J. W. Douglass, Commissioner;"
notice of which action was duly given to the claimants. On
the wrapper or jacket enclosing the papers in this claim appear
the following endorsements:
"(Office of Internal Revenue. Rec'd Dec. 19, '70. Div. 1,

ec. 3.)
Coll'r not'd Dec. 20, '70. J. D. 3395.
Wrote claimants Nov. 13, '71. J. D.
12, 21, '70.
(46) Claim for refunding taxes collected.
Serial No. 18. No. of draft, , $67,335.85.
Harris & Stotesbury, claimant -.
Post-office address, Philadelphia.
Verified by W. J. POLLOCK, Collector.
I district of Penna.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

Assessed upon sp. tax sugar-refiners.
Basis of claim: Claims that they do not refine sugar.
-Nov. 9, 1871, rejected on reexamination.
(Signed)

J. W. DouGLAss, Comm'r.

Examined and rejected Dec. 19, 1870, by (Signed)
CHs. CHESLFY.
Allowed by Commissioner July"26, 1871.
(Signed)
A. PLEASO NrO,
Commissioner."

No notice was given to the claimants of the action of Commissioner Pleasonton, and it does not appear that they were
aware of it until 1880, when, on being informed thereof, they
made application for the payment of the money as having
been duly allowed them by such decision of Commissioner
Pleasonton. This application was denied, but the question of
the liability of the government was transmitted by the Secretary of the Treasury to the Court of Claims. A petition in
that court was filed in the name of Thomas P. Stotesbury,
sole surviving partner of Harris & Stotesbury, and afterwards,
on his death, the suit was revived in the name of the present
appellants, his executors. The decision was in favor of the
government, (23 Ct. Cl. 285,) from which ecision the executors brought this appeal.
.Mr. Enock Totten for appellants.
filed a brief for same.

.Mr. Thomas W. .Aeill

.Mr. Assistant Attorney General Cotton for appellee.
MR. Jusrion BnEwn.n, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

The Court of Claims decided that the action of Commissioner Pleasonton did not constitute a final award binding the
governmenf; and whether it was so or not is the question
presented to us for decision.
The law under which the Commissioner acted is found in

STOTESBURY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Rev. Stat. § 3220 : 1 "The Commissioner of Internal Revenue,
subject to regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the
Treasury, is authorized, on appeal to him made, to remit,
refund and pay back all taxes erroneously or illegally assessed
or collected, all penalties collected without authority, and all
taxes that appear to be unjustly assessed or excessive in
amount or in any manner wrongfully collected." Regulations
were prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury, the only
ones of importance in this case being the 3d, 4th, 5th, and 7th,
as follows:
"3d. When the appeal has been fully heard and examined,
the Commissioner of Internal Revenue must put into the case
a certificate of his decision or judgment, with the amount in
writing which should be paid back.

"4th. A proper book or docket must be carefully kept in
the office of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, in which
should be entered, under its proper date, the name of the
claimant, with the amount of the tax ,vhich is the subject of
appeal, and the final decision of the said Commissioner.
"5th. When from time to time and as the Commissioner of
Internal Revenue in the course of his public duties shall complete his examination and give his judgment on these appeal
cases, he will transmit a weekly list of them to the First Comptroller of the Treasury, together with all the vouchers upon
which, as evidence, he rests his decision, as a matter of account,
giving upon the list the proper date, the name of the claimant,
and the amount found due each claimant."
"7th. Where the case of an appeal involves an amount exceeding two hundred and fifty dollars, and before it is finally
decided, the Commissioner of Internal Revenue will transmit
the case, with the evidence in support of it, to the Secretary
of the Treasury for his consideration and advisement."
It is contended by appellants that the duty of determining
whether any, and, if so, how much, shall be returned to claim1 See the act of July 13, 1866, 14 Stat. 98, c. 184, p. 98, "to reduce Internal Taxation and to amend ' an act to provide Internal Revenue,"' etc.
The provision incorporated into Rev. Stat. § 3220 will be found on p.
111, in section 9.

OCTOBER TERf, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

ants, is committed by section 3220 to the Commissioner; that
the Secretary has no revising power; and that the regulations
which he may prescribe are in respec.t to the manner of payment, and cannot determine the procedure to be followed by
the Commissioner in hearing and deciding upon claims. It
may be conceded that the power of final decision is vested in
the Commissioner, and that there is no appeal from him to
the Secretary of the Treasury; but without inconsistency the
power of decision may be vested in one person, and the ordering of rules of procedure in another. Indeed, in ordinary litigation the one is given to the judiciary, while the other is
largely prescribed by the legislature. Here the authority to
the Secretary to prescribe regulations is given in full and general terms, and certainly it is a very reasonable regulation
that the chief financial officer of the goveriument shall be
heard by the Commissioner before a final decision is made.
Further, the original internal revenue act, in which by section 44 "the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, subject to
regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury," was
authorized to pay back duties erroneously and illegally collected by the government, etc., was enacted on June 30, 1864.
13 Stat. c. 173, pp. 223, 239. These regulations were prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury on January 12, 1866,
and on July 13, 1866, the internal revenue act was amended,
(14 Stat. c. 184, 98, 111,) section 44: being amended by striking
out all after the enacting clause, and inserting in lieu thereof
that which now appears as section 3220 of the Revised Statutes. It might well be held that Congress, having knowledge
of the Secretary's regulations of January, 1866, by reenacting
in modified form section 44, approved these regulations, among
them the seventh, the one in question. If that be so, of course
there could have been no final action by the Commissioner,
but only a transmission of the matter to the Secretary for his
consideration and advice.
But if this be not so, and the regulation be considered as in
excess of the authority vested in the Secretary of the Treasury,
in that it is an attempt to regulate the procedure before the
Commissioner, still it cannot be held that there was a final

STOTESBURY v. UNITED STATES.

,201

Opinion of the Court.

determination by the Commissioner. Whether these regulations were valid or invalid, the Commissioner acted under
them, and, therefore, the meaning and scope of his action
must be interpreted by them. The schedule purports to be
transmitted to the Secretary for consideration and advisement,
in accordance with the regulations. The certificate made to
the Secretary repeats the statement. Read in the light of the
seventh regulation, it is as though the Commissioner said: "I
have examined this claim, and think it should be allowed, but
before final decision I await your consideration and advisement." Certainly, if the Commissioner was .waiting for such
consideration and advisement, he was not making or intending
to make a final,decisic.i. Not only is this the plain import of
the language of the schedule, but the further fact that the
Commissioner did not comply with either the third, fourth, or
fifth regulations emphasizes the correctness of such construetion. He made no formal certificate of his decision or judgment, with the amount in writing which should be paid back;
no entry of a decision appears in any dQcket ;, and no list, including this award, was ever transmitted by him to the First
Comptroller of the Treasury; and the fifth regulation, surely,
is within the competency of the Secretary of the Treasury.
The facts that he ign6red those three provisions, and that he
expressly adopted the seventh regulation as the guide to his
procedure, make it perfectly clear that no final determination
was made or intended by Commissioner Pleasonton. Therefore, the matter wag one still pending until the action of Commissioner Douglass, on November 9, 1871, rejecting the claim.,
The decision of the Court of Claims was -right,and its iudgment is
Afirrmed.

