OCTOBER TERMvf, 1892.
Citations for Appellants.

abstract principle of justice or to compel the defendants to
buy their peace, and if it appear that the parties really in
interest are content that the decree shall stand, it should not
be set aside at the suit of one who could not possibly obtain a
benefit from such a3tion.
In the view we have taken of this case upon the question of
]aches, it is unnecessary to consider whether the plaintiff has
made such a case of fraud in the original decree as justifies the
interposition of a court of equity.
The decree of the court dismissing the bill is, therefore,
Affirmed.

WARE v. GALVESTON CITY COMPAIY.
APPEAL FROM THE

CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE

UNITED STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
Wo. 28. Submitted November 1, 1892. -Decided

November 14, 1892.

The doctrine of Inches applied to a suit in equity, the bill having been filed
in 1881, more than 35 years after the cause of- action accrued; and
information having been obtained by the agent of the plaintiffs, in 1843,
which imposed the duty of further inquiry; and like information having
been obtained in 1854, and in 1858, and in 1869.
There was no distinct averment in the bill as to the time when the alleged
fraud was discovered, and what the discovery was, nor did the bill or
the proof show that the delay was consistent with the requisite diligence.
As to the statute of limitation, as affecting the question of laches, all the
plaintiffs were capable of suing from 1854.

TxE case is stated in the opinion.
.M2r. Warlter 6reshram, .M. X a. X.cLemore, .Xr. S. W:
Jones and .Xr. G.
- fann for appellants submitted on their
brief; citing, on the question of laches, Oliver v. ]Piatt,3 How.
333, 411; Bayard v. Farmers' and Mechanics' Bank, 52
Penn. St. 232; Telegraph Co. v. Davenport, 97 U. S. 369;
Meader v. Yorton, 11 Wall. 442; Bailey v. Glover, 21 Wall.

WARE v. GALVESTON CITY COMPANY.
Opinion of the Court.

342; .Jichaud v. Girod, 4 How. 502, 561; Sears v. Eastburn.,
10 How. 187; Galt v. Galloway, 4: Pet. 332; Iloldsworth v.
Evans, L. R. 3 1. L. 263, 275; Ormsby v. Vermont Copper
Xining Co., 56 N. Y. 623.
.AXr. A. if. Willie for appellee submitted on his brief.
M B. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in equity, brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Texas, on March 18,
1881, by Asenath A. Ware, the widow of Robert J. Ware and
the daughter of David White; David P. Lumpkin, the son of
Lucy S. Lumpkin, a deceased daughter of said David White;
Mary A. Holtzclaw, daughter of Mary A. Cowles, a deceased
daughter of said David White, and James T. Holtzclaw, husband of the said Mary A. Holtzclaw; Thomas W. Cowles, son
of said Mary A. Cowles; and Daniel 0. White and Clement B.
White, sons of J. Osborne White, a deceased son of the said
David White, the plaintiffs being citizens of Alabama and
Florida; against the Galveston City Company, a Texas corporation. The plaintiffs filed the bill as heirs at law of the
said David White.
The bill set forth that on June 15, 1837, one Michael B.
Menard, of the first part, Robert Triplett, Sterling Neblett,
and William F. Gray, of the second part, and Thomas Green,
Levi Jones, and William R. Johnson, of the third part, entered
into a written agreement, which recited that Menard claimed
title to a league and labor of land, consisting of 4605 acres,
situated on the east end of Galveston Island, in the territory
of the Republic of Texas; that, Triplett claiming on behalf of
himself and Neblett and Gray 640 acres of land, part of said
league and labor, articles of agreement were entered into by
Menard and Triplett, bearing date April 11, 1837, by which
Menard agreed to relinquish to Triplett 640 acres out of said
league and labor; that Menard, by deed or act bearing date
April 18, 1837, conveyed the resi,- e of said league and labor,
after deducting the said 640 acres, to Jones, to be sold and

OCTOBER TERAI, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

disposed of by him in the manner and for the pur'poses prescribed in the said act or deed; that Jones, intending to execute the trust created by said deed, had proposed to divide the
premises into 1000 shares, for which certificates were to be
issued to the purchasers, and in pursuance thereof had actually
issued certificates for 400 shares, of which it was believed
many shares had been sold; that Triplett, together with
Menard, by deed duly executed by them, had conveyed the
640 acres to Green, Jones, and Johnson, to be sqld and disposed of in the.manner therein prescribed; that, after further
reciting that, it being the intention of all the parties to lay
off the league and labor of land into lots for the purpose of
building a town thereon, it had been found most beneficial to
the parties concerned that the whole of said league and labor
should be held on joint account in the proportions thereinafter
specified, and should be under the control and at the disposition of the same set of trustees, acting upon one common
plan in regard to the whole, instead of being held partly by
Jones and partly by Green, Jones and Johnson, under different titles and plans, it was witnessed that the parties thereto
covenanted and agreed with each other, among other things,
that the said league and labor of land should be conveyed
to Green, Jones and Johnson, as trustees and commissioners,
to carry into effect the purposes of the agreement; that the
said league and labor of land should be divided by the trustees
into 1000 shares, of which the 400 §hares for which certificates
had been issued by Jones *should be regarded as 400 sh ares,
and the lawful holders of the said certificates should be on the
same footing and entitled to the same rights with the holders
of certificates issued under said agreement of -June 15, 1837,
and upon surrendering their said cer~ficates new certificates
in lieu thereof should be issued by said trustees; that the
iemaining 600 shares should be sold by said trustees in such
manner as they should. think expedient, no share to be sold for
a less sum than $1500, unless a majority of said trustees should
be of opinion that it would be expedient to reduce the price;
that a certificate, signed by at least two of the trustees, should
be issued to every purchaser, who should have a right to

WARE v. GALVESTON CITY COMPANY.
Opinion of the Court.

demand a separate certificate for each share; that the certificates should be transferable by assignment in writing thereon,
signed and sealed by the holder, and acknowledged in the
presence of two witnesses before any justice of the peace or
notary public; that the trustees, as soon as, in their opinion,
a sufficient number of shares had been sold, should call a meeting of the shareholders at such time and place as should be
designated by them, of which they should give sufficient and
convenient notice to shareholders; that the trustees should
hold the title to the said league and labor of land, subject to
the orders of the shareholders, as adopted at their general
meetings, and the rules and regulations prescribed by them, and
make all conveyances which the shareholders might require
them to make, any two of them being authorized to make conveyances and perform all other acts; and that it was thereby
further w.itnessed that the parties thereto of the first and
second parts, in consideration of the premises thereto, and the
further consideration of $10 to them in hand paid by the parties of the third part, did thereby sell and convey unto Green,
Jones, and Johnson, their heirs and assigns, the said league
and labor, in trust to execute the agreements thereinbefore
set forth.
The bill further showed that Green, Jones and Johnson
accepted the trust created by said written instrument, and
took upon themselves its discharge, and in June, 1837, having
supplied themselves with 1000 printed certificates, as the representatives of a lil~e number of shares, which certificates were
bound into five books of 200 certificates each, designated as
Books A, B, 0, D, and E, solicited subscriptions for shares;
that many persons became purchasers for value and owners of
shares therein, to whom said trustees issued a certificate of
ownership for each share so purchased; that on April 13, 1898,
on due notice given by said trustees, the shareholders held a
meeting in Galveston, Texas, and formally organized themselves into a joint stock company, under the name of the Galveston City Company, by the election of a president and four"
directors, who were to constitute the board of directors of the
company,. and to whom was confided the care and control of

OCTOBER TERMT, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

its property, with-power to pass ordinances and by-laws for its
government, appoint*.an agent, apply for a charter of incorporation, require from said trustees a deed for said league and
labor of land, so as to vest the legal title in the said board of
directors and their successors, lay off the land into blocks and
lots, make sales thereof and convey title to the purchasers,
declare dividends of the proceeds of sales among the stockholders, and otherwise manage and control the property as
they might deem best for the interest of the company; but the
bill alleged that said trustees, with the approval and consent
of the company, continued to make sales of shares in its stock,
and as many as 1000, the number designated in said written
articles, eventually were disposed of, and certificates of ownership thereof issued by said trustees to persons entitled thereto.
The bill further showed that David White, late of Mobile,
Alabama, in his lifetime, on November 7, 1838, subscribed for
and became the owner and proprietor of 67 shares in the capital stock of said company, in evidence of which the said trustees appointed under the instrument of June 15, 1837, issued
and delivered to him 67 certificates of ownership, duly signed
by two of them, to wit, 17 out of 3ook A, numbered from
108 to 124, inclusive, and 50 out of Book 0, numbered from
1 to 50, inclusive, each certificate being in the form set forth
in the margin.'
1 "City of Galveston in one thousand shares.
"The proprietors, LA.B. Ifenard, Robert Triplett, Sterling Neblqtt, and
Win. Fairfax Gray conveyed to the undersigned, as trustees, by their deed
of the 15th of June, 1837, a league and labor of land containing 4605 acres
on the east end of Galveston Island, to be sold as joint stock in 1000
shares.
" By the terms of said deed certificates of shares when issued are to be
assigned by endorsement under hand and seal, in the presence of two wit-nesses, before any justice of the peace or notary public.
" The trustees, any two of whom may act, are to call a meeting of the
shareholders when deemed advisable.
"In the proceedings of the stockholders in general meeting each share to
be entitled to one vote and to be represented in person or by proxy, anjia
majority in interest to determine all questions which may arise. The company may prescribe such rules and regulations for its government and management and give such orders and directions to the trustees for the sale

WARE v. GALVESTON CITY COMPANY.
Opinion of the Court.

The bill further showed that on December 31, 1838, at a
regular meeting of the board of directors of the company, an
ordinance was passed by it requiring its agent, as soon as a
charter could be procured, to open a book for the registration
and transfer of stock, and to give due notice of such opening,
and conferring the right on stockholders, after such notice, to
file and register the certificates issued to them by the said
trustees, and receive in lieu thereof certificates under the seal
of the company stating the number of shares to which the
party was entitled, which last certificate should not be transferred, except on the regular books of transfer of the company,
and should be necessary in every case to entitle the shareholder to receive the dividends due him; that another ordinance was passed requiring the trustees to convey said league
and labor to the five persons who were then the directors of
the company, and their successors in office; that on April 12,
1839, the said trustees, by deed duly executed and recorded,
conveyed the said league and labor in fee to the said directors,
by virtue whereof the latter became seized and possessed of it
in trust for the stockholders of the company; that afterwards
the said Galveston City Company was incorporated under the
same name by an act of the Congress of the Republic of Texas,
approved February 5, 1841 ; and that said David White was
one of the original corporators thereof.
of lots or any other purpose as it may think promotive of the general interest.
I Certificate of Stock. Book-, No.-.
"This is to certify that we, Levi Jones, William R. Johnson and Thomas
do grant,
Green, trustees of the city of Galveston, in consideration of -,
bargain and sell to David White, his heirs and assigns forever, one share,
No.-, in the city of Galveston, to be holden and enjoyed by him and his
assigns upon the terms prescribed in the deed bearing date the 15th of June,
1837, of M. B. Menard, Robert Triplett, Sterling Neblett, and William Fairfax Gray, constituting us tie trustees, and in the agreement entered into
between us and the stockholders in said city, as set forth in -the peoposal
for subscription.
"Witness our hands this 7th day of November, 1838.
"LLvI JONs,
"THOiis GEEmN,

, Trustees."

OCTOBER TERM\1, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

The bill further showed that the directors of the company
laid off the said laud into blocks and lots, and offered the
same for sale, and from time to time made sales and conveyances, of numerous parcels of it to different persons, receiving
in part consideration therefor $1,000,000 and upwards; that
there remains a large portion yet unsold, of the value of
$500,000 and upwards; that the company adopted the policy
of accepting from its stockholders shares of stock in exchange
for its lands, and the directors, in a large majority of the sales
of lots by them, accepted and received from the purchasers in
payment therefor, instead of a money consideration, a surrender of shares in the capital stock of said company, owned
by said purchasers, in all such instances cancelling upon the
books of the company the shares thus surrendered; that very
-hany shares had been in that manner retired, until now there
were not more than 50 shares outstanding; that no dividend
of the cash proceeds arising from sales of land had been declared among the stockholders, although the same had always
greatly exceeded the expenses of the company, but the profits
had been permitted to accumulate; and that the market value
of a share in the capital stock of the company far exceeded
now the face value of such share, to wit, $10,000 and upwards.
The bill further showed that on April 8, 1839, by an instrument in writing, White appointed one Abner S. Lipscomb his
attorney in fact, for him, among other things, to transfer any
or all of his Galveston stock, or any interest he might have in
the city of Galveston; that White thereupon delivered to
Lipscomb, for that purpose, the said 67 certificates of stock;
that on December 3, 184:1, Lipscomb surrendered to the company 3 of the certificates issued to White, namely, certificates
numbered 33, 36 and 39, out of Book C, and with the consent
of the company, and by an entry on its books, but without
authority and in fraud of the rights of White, transferred the
3 shares of stock represented by the 3 certificates into his own
name, receiving from the company, in lieu thereof, a certificate
of ownership of said three shares, issued under its seal in his
name; that White died on December 10, 184:1, leaving Mary
S. White, his wife, the plaintiff Asenath A. Ware, his daugh-

WARE v. GALVESTOIN CITY COMPANY.
Opinion of the Court.

ter, and the 5 plaintiffs who are his grandchildren, his only
heirs at law; that he was entitled at the time of his death to a
considerable personal estate, and possessed of 24 shares in the
stock of the Galveston City Company, including the 3 shares
so alleged to have been fraudulently transferred by Lipscomb
into his own name; that 21 of said shares were, at the time of
said White's Jeath, standing in his name on the books of the
conipany, and the certificates of ownership thereof so issued to
him, to wit, those numbered 108, 11.6, 118, 119, 120, 121, 122
and 124, out of Book A, and those numbered 10, 12,. 27, 28,
34, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48 and 49, out of Book C, were at
that time in the possession or power of said lLipscomb; that
the personal estate of which White died possessed was more
than sufficient, exclusive of the 24 shares of stock, to pay his
debts, and they had long since beed paid; and that there was
no administration of his estatd in Texas, nor any ne'cessity
therefor.
The bill further showed that Mary S. White died in 1853,
without having disposed of the right or interest she was entitled to as the widow of David White, in the said 2d shares of
stock, leaving her daughter, the said Asenath, and her said 5
grandchildren her. only heirs at law her surviving; and that
they as such, and as the only heirs at law of David White,
thereupon became entitled to said shares of stock.
The bill further showed that Lipscomb, after the death of
said White, and with the connivance of the company, and by
an entry on its books, but without authority, and in fraud of
the rights of the plaintiffs, transferred the said 24 shares
of stock to some persons unknown, the company at the time
taking up and cancelling the said certificates of ownership
thereof, and delivering to the transferees new certificates
under its seal in their names, representing the shares to be
$1000 each; that the company subsequently procured the
said 24 shares, and the certificates corresponding thereto, to
be surrendered to it by those to whom Lipscomb had so transferred them, or by their assigns, at- the same time cancelling
said shares upon its books, thus retiring them, and was now
claiming the benefit thereof; that the transfer of said shares

OCTOBER TERIf, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

by Lipscomb, after the death of White, was without warrant
and void, and the company, ix contemplation of law, was a
party to his said illegal acts, and liable to the plaintiffs for all
the consequences thereof; and that the company held the
stock in trust for the plaintiffs.
The bill further charged that the truth of the said matters
wotrld appear by the books, certificates, writings, papers, and
memoranda relating to said shares of stock, in the possession
or power of the company, if it would discover and produce the
same, which it refused to do, though frequently applied to for
that purpose.
The bill farther charged that the company, and its agents
and servants, had always studiously concealed from -the plaintiffs the said matters relating to the stock of the said White,
and particularly the said illegal acts of Lipscomb and the company's participation therein, by withholding from the plaintiffs
all information in reference to said stock, and refusing them
access to its books and papers; that the plaintiffs were in total
ignorance of said illegal acts of Lipscomb, and their rights in
the premises, until about 12 or 14 months next before the
filing of The bill; that the plaintiffs, except tje said Asenath,
were, at the time of the death of said White, minors of
tender age, and resided in Alabama and Florida, at a distance
of 800 miles and upwards from Galveston, where Lipscomb
resided, and where the said illegal acts were committed; that
the plaintiffs were not apprised even of the fact that said
White had owned shares in the capital stock of the company,
until some years after his death; that after they were so apprised, to wit, in 1869, and again on March 19, 1879, at Galveston, by one Thomas J. Afolton, their agent in that behalf,
and at divers other times and by other persons, they made application to the company, its agents and servants, for information as to what disposition, if any, had been made of the shares
owned by said White, and also for permission to examine its
books and papers, to ascertain their rights; but the coinpany,
on every such application, declined to disclose to the plaintiffs
any facts relating to said stock, and refused them access to its
books and papers.

WARE v. GALVESTON CITY COMPANY.
Opinion of the Court.

The bill further showed that Lipscomb died in December,
1856, notoriously insolvent, and without having accounted to
the plaintiffs or any of them for the 24 shares of stock or any
interest therein; that the plaintiffs had applied to the company to cancel the alleged transfers of said 24: shares and the
entries of such transfers in its books, and to revive said shares
in the names of the plaintiffs as the heirs at law of said White
and his widow, and to enter the names of the plaintiffs in its
books as the owners of said stock and to issue and deliver to
them certificates therefor, in the proper form, but that it refused to comply with such requests.
The bill called for an answer, but not upon oath, the benefit
whereof was expressly waived. It prayed that the alleged
transfer of the 3 shares of stock by Lipscomb into his own
name from that of White, and the entry thereof in the books
of the company, and the delivery by it to Lipscomb of a certificate of ownership of the 3 shares, might be declared to be a
fraud upon White; that it might be declared that the alleged
transfers by Lipscomb of the 21 shares, after the death of
White, and the subsequent retirement or cancellation of said
shares by the company, were without lawful warrant and void;
that the said 24 shares might be declared to be the property
of the estate of White, and the plaintiffs might be declared
entitled to have the same to their own use, and to share ratably with the other stockholders of the company in all accumulations of property by the company since the date of said
illbgal transfers; that the company might be decreed to. caneel said transfers and the entries thereof in its books, and to
revive the said 24 shares, to enter the names of the plaintiffs
in its books ds the owners of the stock, and to issue and deliver
to the plaintiffs a certificate of ownership for each of said 24
shares at the face value of $1000 each; that, if the revival of
said stock and the transfer thereof on the books of the company into the names of the plaintiffs were impracticable, then
the company might be decreed to pay to the plaintiffs the
market value thereof; and for general relief.
The answer of the defendant sets forth, by way of demurrer
for. want of equity, that the cause of action of the plaintiffs,

OCTOBER TERIM,

1892.

Opinion of the Court.

and of those under whom they claim, accrued more than 35

years before the filing of the bill; that no reasonable or sufficient cause or excuse is alleged why the suit was not earlier
brought, or why all the facts therein pretended to be known
were not earlier discovered; that it was not shown in the bill
when or how any discovery of facts alleged not to have been
before known, or to have been concealed, was made by the
plaintiffs, nor any diligence to ascertain the same, nor any
excuse for the want of such diligence, nor any statement as to
the course of proceedings or any facts connected with the
administration of the estates of David White or his widow in
Alabama., or as to the knowledge or acts of the legal representatives thereof in regard to the alleged rights and claims
which are the subject of this suit, nor to remove the presumptions that all matters relating to the said stock, and on which
the rights thereto were dependent, were fully known to said
representatives; that the plaintiffs' cause of action is barred by
the law of limitations of Texas and the lapse of more than
35 years since the same accrued before this suit was brought;
that the suit had- been delayed such great lapse of time, and
parties holding the certificates of stock alleged to have been
issued in renewal of those which belonged to White had many
years ago obtained full value therefor in the property of the
company, and the rights of third and innocent parties, as the
only holders of the present alleged stock in the company, had
intervened and been permitted to grow up and become of
great value ; and that, therefore, the plaintiffs' cause of action
was barred by such lapse of time and laches, was stale and
inequitable, and ought not to be heard in a court of equity.
The answer sets forth various denials of material allegations
in the bill, and various alleged defences, thereto. It further
sets forth that no person survives who was connected with the
business or administration of the company, or who had any
connection with the stocks or could be reasonably presumed to
have any knowledge respecting the same.
The answer further says that the defendant pleads that suit
on the matters alleged in the bill had been forborne until all
persons connected with the transactions to which it related,

WARE v. GALVESTON CITY COMPANY.
Opinion of the Court.

knowing particular facts and details in regard to said stock,
and the receipt and appropriation of proceeds therefor, were
dead ; and it pleads the laches, neglect and delay of the plaintiffs in bar. of the suit, and alleges that the same is stale and
inequitable, and ought not to be further heard or considered.
The answer further sets forth that by the statute of limitation of suits in Texas, passed in 184:1 and ever since in force,
all actions for personal property must be commenced and sued
within two years after the cause of action accrued, all actions
of debt grounded upon any contract in writing must be commenced and sued within four years next after the cause of such
action or suit, and the longest period of limitation for suits or
actions of any kind was tenyears; that the plaintiffs' cause of
action, if any they ever had, accrued more than ten years and
more than thirty-five years before the filing of the bill; that
said statute had not failed to be operative against the plaintiffs
on account of any exception therefrom, contained therein,
within the principles of equity and good conscience restraining
the same. It denies all concealment, fraud or wrong charged
in the bill on the part of the defendant, to prevent the running
of said statute, and denies that any diligence had been shown
or existed on the part of the plaintiffs, or any excuse for the
lack thereof, to prevent the running of said statute; and it
pleads the same as a bar to the plaintiffs' suit. It further
answers that the great lapse of time, rendering impossible correct knowledge of facts at the present day, resulting from the
death of all parties to the transactions, the laches of the
plaintiffs, and the bonajide accrual of the large and valuable
rights of the other stockholders in the company, render the bill
a stale, inequitable, and unconscientious demand, which ought
not to be heard in a court of equity; and the defendant pleads
the same in bar and estoppel.
A replication was filed to the answer, proofs were taken, and
the cause was heard. The Circuit Court, in November, 1886,
dismissed the bill, with costs, and allowed an appeal to this
court, by, the plaintiffs. No written opinion was delivered,
but it is stated in the brief of the appellants that the Circuit
Court held that the claim could not be prosecuted, by reason
VOL. cXLVI-8

OCTOBER TERIT, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

of the laches of the plaintiffs. We think there was good
cause on that ground for the dismissal of the bill, ahd the
decree of the Circuit Court must be affirmed.
David White died in December, 1841. Whatever cause of
action, if any, the plaintiffs had, arose either then or in March,
1842, when Lipscomb assigned to one James Love, shares of the
stock. It is contended for the plaintiffs that the discovery
on which their suit was based was made only a shorL time
before 1881; but an agent was sent to Texas in 1843 expressly
to obtain information. He saw Lipscomb, and obtained from
the office of the Galveston City Company, in June, 1843,'% full
report as tolthe persons who surrendered the original certificates
and got renewals. The report showed that the 3 certificates
embraced in this suit, numbered 33, 36 and 39, were renewed to
Lipscomb. It showed the fact of the renewal of 16 shares to
Love. There was information enough to make it ije duty of
the agent to make further inquiry. In July, 1844, Robert J.
Ware, executor of David White, visited Texas for the purpose of
seeing Lipscomb, but did not meet him. Then ensued the period
from 18-4 to 1854, when no diligence was shown by the representative of White's estate. In July,.1844, administration on
the estate of White was opened in Texas by W. B. Lipscomb,
the son of A. S. Lipscomb. He brought a suit against Menard,
claiming that the latter owed White's estate over $14,000 and
interest, and that the claim was a lien on all the property orthe
Galveston Qity Company. Jones, the trustee, was made a
party to the suit, and an injunction was prayed against all the
operations of the company. This suit was brought with the
knowledge and privity of Ware, the executo ; but the administration in Texas did not assert any rights against the company,
such as are asserted in the present suit. Ware visited Texas
again and saw Lipscomb prior to 1854, and had an opportunity
to make inquiries of the company.
In 1854, one A. F. James, as agent of David White's estate,
made inquiry at the office of the company as to the rights and
interest which White had in the company at the time of his
death. The books, records and papers were all opened to his
inspection, and the agent of the company made out for him all

WARE v. GALVESTON CITY COMPANY.
Opinion of the Court.

historical record of White's stock. At that time, no suspicion
existed of a claim against the company in the matter, and it
was supposed that the search was made as the foundation of a
liability on the part of Lipscomb. Therefore, there could have
been no purpose on the part of the company of any concealment. The information contained in the report of the company's agent was sufficient to put James upon inquiry.
Ware went to Texas again in 1858, when James, as his
agent, made a further examination.. This was after A. S. Lipscomb had died. It appears that then, in 1858, the question
arose between Ware and James as to the liability of the company to account to the heirs of White for the stock which, it
was alleged, was transferred by Lipscomb after the death of
White. Thus, in 1858, twenty-three years before this suit was
brought, the attention of Ware was directed to the point of
the liability of the company for any transfers of White's stock
made by Lipscomb after White's death. Then the whole matter
appears to have been dropped for eleven years, until 1869. At
that time, Ware had died, and his executor, with Mr. Molton,
went to Galveston in the interest of Ware's estate and of his
widow; and the question arose as to a claim for the stock
against the company.
On June 17, 1873, the firm of Ballinger, Jack & Mott, of
Galveston, lawyers at that time employed by the company,
wrote to Molton that very careful and thorough examination
had satisfied them, without doubt, that the heirs of David
White could not recover against the company for stock improperly transferred to others in the company's books. The
matter was then dropped until 1881, when a bargain was made
with a land agent of Galveston to employ counsel and bring a
suit, for a contingent interest of one-half.
On all these facts, the defence of laches is sustained, on the
principles established by this coart- in the cases of Stearns v.
Page,7 How. 819, 829; .foore v. Greene, 19 How. 69, 72;
Beaubien, v. Beaubien, 23 How. 190; Badger v. Badger, 2
Wall. 87, 94; iVew Albany v. Burke, 11 Wall. 96, 107; Broderick's Will, 21 Wall. 503, 519; Upton v. Tpibilcock, 91 U. S.
45; Sullivan v. Railroad Co., 94 U. S. 806, 811, 812; Goddem,

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

-

v. Himmell, 99 IT. S. 201;. TFood v. Carpenter,101 U. S. 135;
Hoyt v. Sprague, 103 U. S. 613; Lansdale v. Smith, 106 U. S.
391; Philippi v. Philippi, 115 U. S. 151, 157; Speidel v.
Henrici, 120 U. S. 377, 386, 387; Richards v. .Mackall, 124
U. S. 183, 187, 188 ; ilanna v. .Moulton, 138 U. S. 486, 495 ;
Underwood v. Dugan, 139 U. S. 380, 383; Tlammond v. 1I(pkins, 143 U. S. 224, 274.
Within the rules laid down in the cases above cited, there
are not in the bill sufficiently distinct averments as to the time
when the alleged fraud was discovered, and what the discovery
was; nor does the bill or the proof show that the delay was
consistent with the requisite diligence. On the evidence in the
-record, the case stood in March, 1881, when the bill was filed,
on no different ground from that on which it stood in 1858, or
that on which it stood from 1843, or, in fact, from the date of
White's death. Molton married a daughter of the plaintiff,
Asenath A. Ware, and granddaughter of David White. He
testified.that in the spring of 1869 he went to Texas as agent
of the heirs of David White, especially to examine carefully
into the facts of the transfers of the shares of stock which had
belonged to White.
Nor is there anything which takes any of the plaintiffs out
of the operation of the statutes of limitation of Texas, so as to
affect the question of laches. David White's widow was a
feme sole from.1841 to 1853. The plaintiff Lumpkin became
of age in 1843, the plaintiff Daniel 0. White in 1847, the
-plaintiff Clement B. White in 1850, the plaintiff Cowles in 1852,
and the plaintiff M' ry A. Eoltzclaw in 1854. Robert J. Ware
died in 1867, and his widow since that time has been a feme
sole. The longest period of limitation for any cause of action
in Texas, is ten years.
Decree affirmed.

