BENSON v. UNITED STATES.

325

Statement of the Case.

BENSON v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF KANSAS.
No. 1007.

Argued October 28, 31, 1892.-

Decided December 5, 1892.

The Constitution permits a State to cede to the United States jurisdiction
over a portion of its territory.
The United States has exclusive jurisdiction over the entire Fort Leavenworth reservation in Kansas, except as jurisdiction was reserved to the
State of Kansas by the act of cession.
If a party does not object to testimony when offered, he cannot afterwards
be heard to say that there was error in receiving it.
An objection to the competency of testimony made after the witness has
left the stand, and after several other witnesses have been subsequently
examined, comes too late; and a motion, in such case, to strike out the
testimony on the ground of incompetency, is held to have been properly
overruled.
When two persons are jointly indicted for crime, and a severance is
ordered, one of the accused, whose case is undisposed of, may be called
and examined as a witness on behalf of the government against his codefendant.

THE plaintiff in error, Benson, was indicted in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Kansas, jointly
with one -Mary iRautzahn, for a murder alleged to have been
committed at the Fort Leavenworth Military Reservation,
within that district, and within the exclusive jurisdiction of
the United States.
On the trial Benson's wife was called as a witness on behalf
of the government, and was admitted to testify. At the time
when her evidence was taken no objection was made to it;
but in a subsequent stage of the proceedings, after several
other witnesses had been examined, a motion was made to
exclude it.
On the motion of the government a severance was had
between the case of Mary Rautzahn and that of Benson.
She, not having been tried, was called as a witness on behalf
of the government, against ]Benson, and her testimony was
admitted.

OCTOBER. TERf, 1892.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Benson, being convicted, sued out this writ of error, and
assigned for error; (1) that the alleged crime was not committed within the jurisdiction of the United States; (2) that
the. evidence given by his wife was improperly admitted
against him; and, (3) that Mlary Rautzahn was not a competent witness against him.
31r'. A. 1.
illiams (with whom were IAfr. Lelanrd J:. IFebb,
JJ1r. T. C. WTebb, and 3r. IVilliam -Dill on the brief) for
plaintiff in error.
I. As to the first assignment of error he cited AtcCracken
Todd, 1 Kansas, 148; Vnited States v. Ward, Woolworth,
17; .Millar v. Kansas, 2 Kansas, 174; Clay v. .Kansas, 4
Kansas, 49; United States v. Stahl, Woolworth, 192; United
States v. Yllow San., 1 Dillon, 271; Fort -Leavenworth Railroad v. Lowe, 114 U. S. 525; Chicago, Rook Island &a. Railway v. 3EcGlinn, 114 TI. S. 542 ; contending that there is no
concurrent jurisdiction of offences committed on the "reservation." Crimes committed within any "fort" are within the
excluive jurisdiction of the Federal courts. Crimes committed
by private persons outside of or away fr6m a "fort" proper,
and not committed against any property of the government,
are within the exclusive jurisdiction of the state courts. If
this is not so, then a mere state statute can divest or destroy
state sovereignty, and confer upon Federal courts a jurisdiction
not theretofore possessed by the Federal government. A State
cannot by its sole act narrow or reduce its territorial area, nor
divest itself of any part of its political jurisdiction. Constitution, Art. 4, § 3; Art. 1, § 8.
II. As to the competency of Mrs. Benson as a witness.
The competency of husband or wife as a witness against the
other in criminal trials in the Federal courts, except by the act
of March 3, 1887, 24 Statr 635, c. 397, has never been directly
authorized or recognized by act of Congress. The competency
of witnesses in the Federal courts therefore has been, and as a
general rule is, determined by the rules of the common law, or
by the statutes of the State in which the Federal court is sitting

BENSON v. UNITED STATES.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

at the time of the trial. We insist that, under the laws of
the United States, she was not a competent -,'itness for any
purpose whatever against her husband, even though she might
.be willing to testify.
The laws of Kansas, (Gem Stats. 1889, § 5280,) permit a
wife to testify "on behalf of" her husband in a "criminal
cause;" but the code, § 323 provides that "in no case shall
either be permitted to testify concerning any communication
made by one to the other during the marriage." In State v.
J.f Qord, 8 Kansas, 232, it was held that the wife of a person
on trial in a criminal case was competent to testify as a witness for the State, if she did so voluntarily. In that case Mrs.
McCord voluntarily offered herself and testified as a witness
for the State against her husband, but not respecting "any
communication" whatever made to her by him, but concern-

ing the fact or act of the shooting or killing by her husband
of her paramour; and the case is not instructive here.
Bowman r. Patrick, 32 Fed. Rep. 368, was a civil action, in
which the question of the admissibility and competency of
letters written by a defendant to his wife was involved. In
his opinion Mr. Justice Miller goes to the fullest extent in
.holding that such communications were inadmissible.
The case of United States v. Jones, 32 Fed. Rep. 569, was a
criminal case, and it was expressly decided, that "in the courts
of the United States the wife is not a competent witness for
or against her husband in a criminal case, and this on the
score of public policy." And in a.note to the opinion in that
case, numerous cases are cited showing how far different
States have changed the rule of the common law respecting
the competency of husband and wife as witnesses against each
other, the grounds upon which such changes are sustained or
upheld, and the reasons which not only permit, but sometimes
compel them to testify against each other respecting offencescommitted by the one against the person of the other. But
an examination of the cases referred to will furnish no groun'd
for holding in the case at bar that Mrs. Benson was a chmpetent witness to testify against her husband "respecting any
communications made by him to her."

OCTOBER TERMS, 1892.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

It may be said that it was not Mrs. Benson's testimony, but
the letters' written by Benson himself, which furnished -evidence against him. The court will look in vain through the
record to find a single word of testimony given by any witness
other than -Mrs. Benson respecting the penmanship, or hand'writing, or the genuineness of the letters; and without her

testimony, that the letters were in his handwriting, and "communications" written by him to her, they could not and would
not have been given in evidence against him.
III. Mrs. IRautzahn was not competent as a witness against
Benson. Neither Benson nor his counsel were in court when
the order of severance was made. Whether it was illegal or
not, it wps undoubtedly asked by the district attorney that he
might call Mrs. Rautzahn as a witness for the government
against Benson.
The only statute of the United States on the subject, act of
March 16, 1878, 20 Stat. 30, c. 37, applies only to persons on
trial, desiring to offer evidence in their own behalf, and does
not affect this case.
The rule of the common law was, that a codefendant,
jointly indicted as a principal in the first degree, and against
whom the indictment was still pending and undetermined, was
not a competent witness for the crown against his codefendant, and this, whether the trial was joint, or several. There
are grave doubts whether he was under the same circumnstances a competent witness in behalf of his codefendant. A
majority of the English cases hold against his competency.
IRussell and Wharton, speaking of the common-law rule, both
state that "accessories" and "codefendants" jointly indicted
are incompetent; while the rule was, and still is, that if not
indicted at all, or if indicted separately, accessories and accomplices are competent. Whatever reason there may be for this
distinction, or however inconsistent the two rules may appear
to be, the fact remains, that the two rules as stated were the
rules of the common law. The exceptions found in the books
are so few as hardly to constitute substantial exceptions.
1 Greenleaf on Ev. § 363 ; United States v. Sacia, 2 Fed. Rep.
754; Rex v. Desmoml, Noy, 154; R-ex v. Davis, 3 Keble, 136;

BENSON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Bew v. Zafone, 5 Esp. 154; Regina v. George, Car. & M. 111;
Queen v. Gerber, Temple & Mew, 64-7; People v. Bill, 10
Johns. 95; State v. Brien, 3 Vroom, (32 N. J. Law,) 414;
Roscoe's Crim. Ev. 7th Am. ed. 127, 128, where the rule is
thus stated: "It is quite clear that an accomplice is a competent witness for the prisoner in conjunction with whom he
himself committed the crime," " b ut if he is charged in the
same indictment he cannot be called until after he has been
acquited, or convicted, or a nolleprosequihas been entered."
There is nothing in the criminal code of Kansas which extends this rule in that State.
.31. Assistant Attorney General Parker for defendant in
error.
MRi.

JusTicE

BREWER delivered the opinion of the court.

In June, 1891, plaintiff in error was convicted in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Kansas of the
crime of murder, and sentenced to be hanged. The crime was
charged to have been committed on the Fort Leavenworth
military reservation, in the District of Kansas, and the first
question presented for our consideration is one of jurisdiction.
The Fort Leavenworth military reservation is within the
territorial boundaries of the State of Kqnsas, as established by
the act of admission, 12 Stat. 126, c. 20; and though then the
property of the government, and for a long time theretofore
withdrawn from the public lands, as a military reservation,
was not excepted from the jurisdiction of the newly admitted
State. But in 1875 the legislature of the State of Kansas
passed an act, entitled "An act to cede jurisdiction to the
United States over the territory of the Fort Leavenworth military reservation," the first section of which is as follows:
"That exclusive jurisdiction be, and the same is hereby, ceded
to the United States over and within all the territory owned
by the United States, and included within the limits of the
United States military reservation known as the Fort Leavenworth reservation in said State, as declared from time to time

OCTOBER TERIM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

by the President of the United States, saving, however, to the
said State the right to serve civil or criminal process within
said reservation, in suits or~prosecutions for or on account of
rights acquired, obligations incurred, or crimes committed in
said State, but outside of said cession and reservation; and
saving further to said State the right to tax railroad, bridge
and other corporations, their franchises and property, on said
reservation." laws of Kansas, 1875, p. 95. This act was before this court for consideration in two cases: FMr Leavenworth
.RailroadCompany v. lowe, 114 U. S. 525; Oticago & Pacifl
Railway Co. v. 2fcGlinn, 114 U. S. 542. It was held in those
cases that the act was a valid cession of jurisdiction to the
general government; and that, although it did not appear that
any application had been made therefor by the United States,
yet, as it conferred a benefit, acceptance of the cession was to
be presumed. It was conceded that article I, section 8, of the
Constitution was not applicable, as there was not within the
terms of that section a purchase of the tract by the consent of
the legislature of the State, but it was decided that, while a
State has no power to cede away its territory to a foreign
countr y, yet it can transfer jurisdiction to the general government. In the opinion in the first case, on page, 541, the
court observed: "In their relation to the general government,
the States of the Union stand in a very different position from
that which they hold to foreign governments. Though the
jurisdiction and authority of the general government are essentially different from those of the State, they are not those of
a different country; and the two, the State and general government, may deal with each other in any way they may deem
best to carry out the purposes of the Constitution. It is for
the protection and interests of the States, their people and
property, as well as for the protection and interests of the
people generally of the United States, that forts, arsenals and
other buildings for public uses are constructed within the
States. As instrumentalities for the execution of the powers
of the general government, they are, as already said, exempt
from such control of the States as would defeat or impair their
use for those purposes, and if, to their more effective use, a

BENSON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

cession of legislative authority and political jurisdiction by the
State would be desirable, we do not perceive any objection to
its grant by the legislature of the State." And in the opinion
in-the second case, on page 546, the prior decision was interpreted in these words: "We also held that it is competent for
the legislature of a State to cede exclusive jurisdiction over
places needed by the general government in the execution of
its powers, the use of the places being, in fact, as much for
the people of the State as for the people of the United States
generally, and such jurisdiction necessarily ending when the
places cease to be used for those purposes."
It is contended by appellant's counsel that, within the scope
of those decisions, jurisdiction passed to the general government only over such portions of the reserve as are actually
used for military purposes, and that the particular part of the
reserve on which the crime charged was committed was used
solely for farming purposes. But in matters of that kind
the courts follow the action of the political department of the
government. The entire tract had been legally reserved for
military purposes. United States v. Stone, 2 Wall. 525, 537.
The character and purposes of its occupation having been
officially and legally established by that branch of the government which has control over such matters, it is not open to
the courts, on a question of jurisdiction, to inquire what may
be the actual uses to which any portion of the reserve is temporarily put. There was, therefore, jurisdictioq in the Circuit
Court; and the first contention of plaintiff in error must be
overruled.
A second important question arises upon the admission of
the testimony of the wife of the defendant. She was called
by the government, and testified, as to six slips and two
letters, that they were in the handwriting of the defendant,
and that the' letters were received by her through the mail.
This was all of her testimony. It was received without
objection. Not only was there no objection, but the court
followed the suggestions of the defendant's counsel in respect
to its admission. The record shows that, when she was called
as a witness, the defendant's counsel stated: "The woman

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

,upon the stand is the wife of the defendant. I desire that
the court shall be satisfied of that by proper inquiries in order
that the fact may be established, and then I wish her to be
advised that she cannot, except with her own free will and
voluntary consent, be used as a witness against him. She
is his lawful-wife."
Thereupon some colloquy took place
-between the court and counsel, in which the latter, not in
terms consenting that she be sworn and examined as a witness,
yet making no objection thereto, insisted again and again that
she be advised that she need not testify unless she desired to
testify. Thereupon the court ruled that she should be so
advised, .ani did in fact so advise her.
Again, the letters and slips, having been identified by Mrs.
Benson, were received in evidence; and, being written in
German, an interpreter was called to translate them to the
jury. The defendant declared, while he was translating, that
be was doing so incor.rectly; and afterwards went upon the
stand as a witness in his own behalf, and gave what he called
a correct translation; and he did not confine himself to this,
but went further, and testified that be wrote the letters.
If this were all that appeared in the record, there would be
no shadow of a question; for if a party does not object to
testimony, he cannot afterwards be heard to say that there
was error in receiving it. But after Mrs. Benson had left the
stand, and several other witnesses had been examined, the
defendant interposed a motion to strike out her testimony on
the ground that it was incompetent; which motion was overruled, and exception taken.
At common law, an objection to the competency of a
witness on the ground of interest was required to be made
before his examination in chief; or, if his interest was then
not known, as soon as it-was discovered. 1 Greenl. on Ev.,
§ 421. And the rule was the same in.criminal as in civil cases.
Roscoe's Cr. Ev., 124:; Comlmonwealtk v. Green., 17 Mass. 515,
538. Tested by that rule, the attempt to get rid of the testimony 6f Mrs. Benson by a motion, long after its admission,
to strike-it from the record, was too late. The defendant by
wot objecting to her testimony at the time it was offered,

]!:NSON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

waived the objection. But if that rigorous rule does not now
prevail, and a party has a right at any time, by motion to
strike out, to secure the removal from a case of objectionable
and incompetent testimony, still we think no substantial error
can be adjudged in overruling this motion; for here not only
did the defendant not object to this testimony, but on the
contrary it was admitted in the way suggested and insisted
upon by his counsel. The court accepted the suggestions of
such counsel, and gave the witness the advice and directions
urged. The testimony was in reference to a subordinate
matter -mere identification of certain papers. No objection
was raised until after the witness had left the stand and the
trial had proceeded at some length, and when, perhaps,
witnesses by whom the same fact could have been established
were discharged, or when too late to obtain other witnesses
by whom it could have been proved, and the defendant
himself, as a witness in his own behalf, testified as to having
written the letters. Under these circumstances we do not
think there was error in overruling this motion to strike out.
The third principal point upon which defendant relies is
this: Mary Rautzahn, the daughter of the murdered woman,
was jointly indicted with the defendant. A severance was
ordered by the court, and on this trial of defendant his codefendant, Mary Rautzahn, was called and examined as a witness
for the government, and this examinati6n was before any disposition of the case against her. Authorities on this question are
conflicting. The'following sustain the ruling of the Circuit
Court: State v. Brien, 3 Vroom, (32 N. J. Law,) 414; Noyes
v. The State, 12 Vroom; (41 N. J. Law,) 418; -Jrolandv. The
State, 19 Ohio, 131; Allen v. The State, 10 Ohio St. 287-; Jones
v. The State, 1 Georgia, 610; State v. Barrows,76 Maine, 401.
In this last case is quite a discussion of the question by Peters,
C. J., and review of the authorities. We quote from the
opinion: "As a question simply at common law, although
there is a contradiction in the cases, the preponderance of
authority seems to favor the admission of a codefendant, not
on trial, as a witness, if called by the prosecution. There is
very much less authority allowing him to be sworn as a

OCTOBER TERAT, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

witness for the defence. Whether the distinction be a sensible
one or not, it has prevailed extensively.
"Most of the authors on evidence evidently adopt the view
that the testimony is admissible when offered by the State.
Although but little authority is adduced to support their
statements, and the doctrine is not very clearly or positively
stated in some instances, still such a general concurrence of
favorable expression has much weight upon the question. It
goes far to show the common opinion and practice. Hawkins'
P. C. book 2, c. 46, § 90; 1 Hale's P. C. 305; 2 Starkie's Ev.
11; Roscoe's Cr, Ev. 9th ed. 130, 140; 2 Russell's'Crimes,
957. Mr. Wharton says: 'An accomplice is a competent
witness for the prosecution, although his expectation of
pardon depends upon the defendant's coiviction, and although
le is a codefendant, provided in the latter case his trial is
severed from that of the defendant against whom he is
offered? Whart. Or, Ev. 8th ed. § 439. Mr. Greenleaf states
the same rule. He says: 'The usual course is, to leave out of
the indictment those who are to be called as witnesses, but it
makes no difference as to the admissibility of an accomplice,
whether he is indicted or not, if he has not been put on his
trial at the ame time with his companions in guilt. 1 Greenl.
Ev. § 379."
Referring to the English authorities, it has there been held
that, at common law, and independently of any statute, when
two persons jointly indicted are tried together, neither is a
competent witness; but that if -one is tried separately, the
other is a competent witness against him, because, as observed
by Mr. Justice Blackburn, "the witness was a party to the
record, but had not been given in charge to the same jury."
Queen v. Payne,L. R. 1 0. C. 349, 354; lFinsor v. T]te Queen,
L. R. 1 Q. B. 390.
But it is said that this court has already practically decided
this question in the case of United States v. Reid, 12 How.
361., The precise question in that case was as to the right of
.the defendant to call his codefendant, and not that of the
government to call the codefendant, and a distinction has been
recognized between the two cases. It is true that the reasons

BENSON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

given for the exclusion of the witness in one are largely the
same as those given for his exclusion in the other, to wit,

interest and being party to the record; but public policy is
also urged in favor of the exclusion of one defendant as a
witness for his codefendant, for each would try to swear the
other out of the charge. And as the distinction prevailed,
whether founded on satisfactory reasons or not, it is sufficient
to justify us in holding that that case is not decisive of this.
Further, the stress in that case was not on this question. The
defendant was indicted and tried in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Virginia. A statute had
been passed in that State, in terms permitting a codefendant
when not jointly tried to testify in favor of the one on trial,
and that statut6 was invoked as securing the competency of
the witness, and the question which was discussed was whether
the existing statute law of Virginia controlled, and it was held
that it did not, and that the question was to be determined by
the common law as it stood in Virginia at the date of the
Judiciary Act of 1789. It was assumed both in this court
and in the Circuit Court, 3 Hughes, 509, 539, 540, that by that
law the codefendant was incompetent. It was not affirmed
that such was the rule in the mother country or in the other
States of the Union. We do not feel ourselves, therefore,
precluded by that case from examining this question in the
light of general authority and sound reason.
In this examination it is well to consider upon what reasons
the codefendant was excluded. They were substantially two:
first, that he was interested; and, second, that he was a party
to the record. It is familiar knowledge that tlie old cothmon
law carefully excluded from the witness stand parties to the
record, and those who were interested in the result; and this
rule extended to both civil and criminal cases. Fear of perjury was the reason for the rule. The eiceptions which were
engrafted upon it were only those which sprang from the supposed necessities of the case, and-were carried no further than
such necessities demanded. So late as 1842 it was a question
doubtful enough to'be sent on certificate of division to this
court, -whether the owner of goods ptolen on the high seas was

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

a competent witness on the trial of the party accused of the
larceny, the statute providing for the punishment of the
offence enacting that the party convicted should be fined not
exceeding fourfold the value of the property stolen - the one
moiety to be paid to the owner and the other to the informer.
And after a full discussion, in an opinion by Mr. Justice Story,
it was resolved in favor of the competency of the witness.
cStates v. -Murphy, 16 Pet. 203.
United
Nor were those named the only grounds of exclusion from
the witness stand; conviction of crime, want of religious
belief, and other matters were held sufficient. Indeed, the
theory of ihe common law was to admit to the witness stand
only those presumably honest, appreciatirrg the sanctity of an
oath, unaffected as a party by the result, and free from any of
the temptations of interest. The courts were afraid to trust
the intelligence of jurors. fBut the last fifty years have
wrought a great change in these respects, and to-day the tendency is to enlarge the domain of competency and to submit
to the jury for their consideration as to the credibility of the
witness those matters which heretofore were ruled sufficient
to justify his exclusion. This change has been wrought partially by legislation and partially by judicial construction.
By Congress, in July, 1864, (Rev. Siat. § 858,) it was enacted
that "in the courts of the Unitd States no witness shall be
excluded in any action on account of color, or in any civil
action because he is a party to or interested in the issue tried,"
with a proviso as to actions ty'and agaihst executors, etc.
And on March 16, 1878, it also passed an apt permittirrg the
defendant in criminal cases to testify at his own request. 20
Stat. 30, c. 37. Under that statute, if there bad been no severance and the two defendants had been tried jointly, either
would have been a competent witness for the defendants, and
though the testimony of the one bore against the other, it
would none the less be competent. Commonwealta v. Brown,
130 Mass. 279. The- statute in terms places no limitation on
the scope of the testimony, for its language is "the person so
charged shall at his oWn request, b ut not otherwise, be a competent witness." His competency being thus established, the

BEXSO1

v. UNITED STATES.

Opinion* of the Court.

limits of examination are those which apply to all other witnesses. Legislation of similar import prevails in most of the
States. The spirit of this legislation has controlled the decisions of the courts, and steadily, one by one, the merely technical barriers which excluded witnesses from the stand have
been removed, till now it is generally, though perhaps not
universally,, true that ho one is excluded therefrom unless the
lips of the originally adverse party are closed by death, or
unless some one of those peculiarly confidential relations, like
that of husband and wife, forbids the breaking of silence.
In the light of these authorities and this legislation of Congress, there is less difficulty in disposing of this question. If
interest and being party to the record do not exclude a defendant on trial from the witness stand, upon what reasoning can
a codefendant, not on trial, be adjudged incompetent? The
conviction or acquittal of the former does not determine the
guilt or innocence of the latter, and the judgment for or
against the former will be no evidence on the subsequent trial
of the latter. Indeed, so far as actual legal interest is concerned, it is a matter of no moment to the latter. While -the
codefendant not on trial is a party to the record, yet he is
only technically so. Confessedly, if separately indicted, he
would be a competent witness for the government; but a
separate trial tlnder a joint indictmen't makes in fact as independent a proceeding as a trial on a separate indictment. In
view of this, very pertinent is the observation of Chief Justice Beasley, in State v. Brien, s8pr: "The only reason for
the rejection of such a witness is, that his own accusation of
crime is written on th same piece of paper, instead of on a
different piece, with. the charge against the culprit whose trial
is in progress. It is obvious such a rule could only stand, in
any system of rational law, on the basis of uniform precedent
and ancient usage. I have discovered no such basis." We
think the testimony of -Mrs. Rautzahn was competent, 4iid
there was no error in its admission.
These are the only important questions presented by defendant. Two or three other matters are suggested, and, indeed,only suggested. In respect to them it is suffibient to say that
vOL.

CLi-Vi22

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

either the rulings of the court were not erroneous, or else no
sufficient exceptions were taken to them.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is
Affirnzed.

UNITED STATES v. DUNNINGTON.
DUNNINGTON v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Nos. 51, 52. Argued November 18, 1892. -Decided

December 8,1802.

The estate forfeited by proceedings to judgment under the conflscation
act of July 17, 1862, 12 Stat. 589, c. 195, and the joint resolution of the
same date, 12 Stat. 627, is the life estate of the offender; the fee remaining in him after the confiscation, but without power of alienation until
his disability is removed.
The conflicting cases on the subject of proceedings under that act reviewed,
and Illinois Central Railroad v. Bosworth, 133 U. S. 92, and Jenkins v.
Collard,145 U. S. 546, followed.
A judicial condemnation, for the use of the United States, of land in Washington which had been so confiscated and sold, made during the lifetime
of the offender from whom it had been taken under the confiscation act,
is held to operate upon the fee as well as upon the life estate, assuming
that due and legal notice of the proceedings for the condemnation were
given.
The appraised value of the property in such proceedings for condemnation
repre ients the whole fee, and the interests, both present and prospectlvc,
of every person concerned in it.
By the payment into court of the amount of the appraised value of the
property so condemned, the United States was discharged from its whole
-liability, and was not even entitled to notice of the order for the distribution of the money.

THIs was a petition to recover from the United States the
sum of $12,644, the alleged value of lot 3, square 688, in the city
of Washington, condemned for the enlargement of the Capitol
grounds. The following facts were found by the Court of
Claims:
1. Charles W. C. Dunnington, the ancestor of the claimants,

