OCTOBER TERX,

1892.

Syllabus.

UNITED STATES v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD
COMPANY.
UNITED STATES v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD
COMPANY.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
Nos. 921, 922.'

Argued Yovember 9, 10, 1892. -Decided

December 12, 1S2.

The intent of Congress in each and all of its railroad land grants was that
the grant should operate at a fixed time, and should cover only such
lands as at that time were public lands, grantable by Congress, and such
a grant is not to be taken as a floating authority to appropriate lands
within the specified limits which, at a subsequent time might become
public land.
The grant of land made to the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company by
the act of July 27, 1866, 14 Stat. 292, c. 278, and the grant to the Southern Pacific Railroad Company by the act of March 3, 1871, 16 Stat. 573,
c. 122, were grants in prmsenti which, when maps of definite location
were filed and approved, took effect, by relation, as of the dates of the
respective statutes.
The filing by the Atlantic and Pacific Company of a map of definite location
from the Colorado River through San Buenaventura to San Francisco,
under a claim of right to construct a road for the entire distance, was
good as a map of definite location from the Colorado River to San
Buenaventura.
The Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company having duly filed a valid and
sufficient map of definite location of its route from the Colorado River
to the Pacific Ocean, which %Yas approved by the Secretary of the Interior, the title to the lands in dispute passed therel)y to that company
under the grant of July 27, 1866, and remained held by it, subject to a
condition subsequent, until their forfeiture under the act of July 6, 1886,
24 Stat. 123, c. 637; and by that act of forfeiture the title thereto was
I In No. 921, D. 0. Mills and Garrit L. Lansing, Trustees, and Joseph E.
Youngblood, were codefendants and appellees, with the Railroad Company.
In No. 922, D. 0. Mills and Garrit L. Lansing, Trustees, The City Brick
Company, Thomas Goss, Edward Simmons and Albert A. Hubbard, were
such codefendants and appellees.

UNITED STATES v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC R'D. 571
Statement of the Case.
retaken by the United States for its own benefit, and not for that of
the Southern Pacific Railroad Company, whose grant never attached to
the lands, so as to give that company any title, of any kind, to them.

cases were argued, together with Nos. 862, 863
6th, 7th and 8th of April, 1892, at October term,
the
on
post,
18th of the same April, at the same term,
the
1891. On
they were ordered for reargument, before a full bench.
The reargument took place at this term on the 9th and 10th
of November, 1892. The case then made, so far as it related
to Nos. 921 and 922, was stated by the court as follows:
THESE

On July 27, 1866, Congress passed an act granting lands to
aid in the construction of a railroad from the States of Missouri and Arkansas to the Pacific coast. 14 Stat. 292, c. 278.
By the first section, a corporation to be known as the Atlantic
and Pacific Railroad Company was created, and authorized to
construct and operate a road from a point near the town of
Springfield, in the State of Missouri, westward through Albuquerque, "and thence along the thirty-fifth parallel of latitude,
as near as may be found most suitable for a railway route, to
the Colorado River, at such point as may be selected by said
company for crossing; thence by the most practicable and
eligible route to the Pacific." The third section making the
land grant is, so far as touching any question in this case is
concerned, as follows:
"SEoc. 3. That there be, and hereby is, granted. to the
Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company, its successors and
assigns, for the purpose of aiding in the construction' of said
railroad and telegraph line to the Pacific coast, and to secure
the safe and speedy transportation of the mails, troops, munitions of war, and public stores, over the route of said line of
railway and its branches, every alternate section of public land
not mineral, designated by odd numbers, to the amount of
twenty alternate sections per mile, on each side of said railroad
line, as said company may adopt, through the Territories of the
United States, and ten alternate sections of land per mile on each
side of said railroad, whenever it passes through any State, and
whenever, on the line thereof, the United States have full title,

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

not reserved, sold, granted, or otherwise appropriated, and free
from preemption or other claims or rights, at the time the line
of said road is designated by a plat thereof, filed in the office
of the Commissioner of the General SLand Office; and whenever, prior to said time, any of said sections or parts of sections
shall have been granted, sold, reserved, occupied by homestead settlers, or preempted, or otherwise disposed of, other
lands shall be selected by said company in lieu thereof, under
the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, in alternate
sections, and designated by odd numbers, not more than ten
miles beyond the limits of said alternate sections, and not
including the reserved numbers: Provided,That if said route
shall be found upon the line of any other railroad route, to aid
in the construction of which lands have been heretofore granted
by the United States, so far as the routes are upon the same
general line, the amount of land heretofore granted shall be deducted from the amount granted by this act."
The 18th section was in these words:
"SEc. 18. That the Southern Pacific Railroad, a company
incorporated under the laws of the State of California, is
hereby authorized to connect with the said Atlantic and
Pacific Railroad, formed under this act, at such point, near
the boundary line of the State of California as they shall deem
most suitable for a railroad line to Sari Francisco, and shall
have a uniform gauge and rate of freight or fare with said
road; and in consideration thereof, to aid in its construction,
shall have similar grants of land, subject to all the conditions
and limitations herein provided, and shall be required to construct its road on the like regulations, as to time and manner,
with the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad herein provided for."
On March 3, 1871, Cohgress passed an act, 16 Stat. 573, c.
122, to incorporate the Texas Pacific Railroad Company, and
to aid in the construction of its road, the 23d section of which
act reads:
"That for the purpose of connecting the Texas Pacific Railroad with the city of San Francisco, the Southern Pacific
Railroad Company of California is hereby authorized (subject
to the laws of California) to construct a line of railroad from

UNITED STATES v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC R'D.

573

Statement of the Case.

a point at or near Tehachapa Pass, by way of Los Angeles, to
the Texas Pacific Railroad at or near the Colorado River, with
the same rights, grants and privileges, and subject to the
same limitations, restrictions and conditions, as were granted
to said Southern Pacific Railroad Company of California by
the act of July twenty-seven, eighteen hundred and sixty-six:
Provided,however, That this section shall in no way affect or
impair the rights, present or prospective, of the Atlantic and
Pacific Railroad Company or any other railroad company."
Under the act of July, 1866, the Atlantic and Pacific Company proceeded to construct a part of its road, but did no
work west of the Colorado River, the east line of the State of
California. It did, however, file maps of that which it claimed
to be its line of definite location from the Colorado River to
the Pacific Ocean, which, on April 11, 1872, and August 15,
1872, were accepted and approved by the Secretary of the
Interior. On July 6, 1886, Congress passed this act of forfeiture:
"An act to forfeit the lands granted to the Atlantic and
Pacific Railroad Company, etc.
"Be it enacted by the &nate and House of Representatives of
the United States of America in Congress assembled, That all
the lands, excepting the right of way and the right, power
and authority given to said corporation to take from the
public lands adjacent to the line of said road material of
earth, stone, timber and so forth, for the construction thereof,
including all necessary grounds for station buildings, workshops, depots, machine shops, switches, side-tracks, turn-tables
and water-stations, heretofore granted to the Atlantic and
Pacific -Railroad Company by an act entitled ' An act granting
lands to aid in the construction of a railroad and telegraph
line from the States of Mfissouri and Arkansas to the Pacific
coast,' approved July twenty-seventh, eighteen hundred and
sixty-six, and subsequent acts and joint resolutions of Congress, which are adjacent to and coterminous with the uncompleted portions of the main line of said -road, embraced within

OCTOBER TERN, 1892.
Argument for Appellant.

both the granted and indemnity limits, as contemplated to be
constructed under and by the provisions of said act of July
twenty-seventh, eighteen hundred and sixty-six, and acts and
joint resolutions subsequent thereto and relating to the construction of said road and telegraph, be and the same are
hereby declared forfeited and restored to the public domain."
24 Stat. 123, c. 637.
On April 3, 1871, just a month after the passag6 of the act
of March 3, the defendant, the Southern Pacific Company,
filed a map of its route from Tehachapa Pass by way of Los
Angeles to the Texas Pacific Railroad, and proceeded to construct its road, and finished the entire construction some time
during the year 1878. Its road crossed the line, as located, of
the Atlantic and Pacific Company. The lands in controversy
in these cases are within the granted or place limits of both
the Atlantic and Pacific and the Southern Pacific Companies
at the place where these lines cross. As the Atlantic and
Pacific Company did not construct its line; and as its rights
were subsequently forfeited by Congress, and as the Southern
Pacific Company did construct its line, the latter claimed that
by virtue of its grant and the construction of its road these
lands became its property. It was to test this claim of title,
and to restrain trespasses by the railroad company, and those
claiming under it, on the lands, that these actions were
brought in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of California. In that court.the decisions
were in favor of the defendants, and decrees entered dismissing the bills, from which decrees the government brought its
appeal to this court. See 39 Fed. Rep. 132; 40 Fed. Rep.
611; 45 Fed. Rep. 596; 46 Fed. Rep. 683.
Afr. Assistant Attorney General .lf1aury for appellant.

A careful examination of the several statutes will show that
the Southern Pacific Company, the defendant, is an essentially
different corporate entity from the beneficiary of the land
grant of the same name, and therefore was not authorized to
earn the grant or receive the patents. On the other hand the

UNITED STATES v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC R'D. 575
Argument for Appellant.

Atlantic and Pacific Company was not only created by Congress but required, as a condition of its being, to carry forward
the enterprise of constructing and operating a transcontinental
highway, from Springfield, Missouri, to the Pacific Ocean,
assigned to it by the act of July 27, 1866, while on the other
hand the Southern Pacific Company was merely "authorized"
by that act, as a state instrumentality, to connect with the
Atlantic and Pacific road, at such point near the boundary
line of California. as should be deemed most suitable for a railroad line to San Francisco, and was merely "authorized" by
the act of March 3, 1871, "subject to the laws of California,"
to construct a road from Tehachapa Pass, by way of Los
Angeles, to the Texas Pacific road at or near the Colorado
'River. In other words, it became the legal duty of the
Atlantic and Pacific Company, on accepting its grant and
charter, to build and maintain its road, whereas the Southern
Pacific Company had a mere option in the premises and was
not bound to do anything.
So far, therefore, from it being a matter of surprise that the
rights and privileges conceded by Congress to this state corporation are so guarded and so subordinated to the grant to
its own corporation as not to endanger or obstruct the attainment of the important object for which that corporation was
instituted, it was to be expected that it would be so.
The Southern Pacific Company accepted its two grants with
full notice of their subordinate and secondary character. It
was warned by-the act of March 3, 1871, that if it selected a
route that was to any extent upon the same general line as
that of the Atlantic and Pacific Company a proportionate
deduction would be made from the lands called for by the
Southern Pacific grant; in short, that in such a contingen6y
the state corporation should be stripped of its grant pro taznt ,
in order to prevent a failure pro tanto of the grant to the
Federal corporation.
It was further warned by the proviso of section 23 of the act
of March 3, 1871, that its grant by that act "shall in no way
affect or impair the rights, present or prospective, of the
Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company, or any other railroad

OCTOBER TERM,

1892.

Argument for Appellant.

company." The language of this proviso was exceptional and,
it is believed, unprecedented in the history of Congressional
land grants. It was made so because Congress intended that
the subordination and subjection of the Southern Pacific grant
to the Atlantic and Pacific should be exceptional in its rigor,
so that it should not happen that the Atlantic and Pacific
grant would be involved in any entanglement with that of the
Southern Pacific, whose line it would probably intersect somewhere near the Pacific coast.
To interpret these grants properly we must look at the condition of things that existed in March, 1872, when the intersecting part of its line of route was filed by the Atlantic and
Pacific Company, which had begun to build from the eastern
end of its road and believed in its ability to complete the work
from end to end.
It would seem to be absolutely clear, in the light of the
decisions of this court, that the lands covered by the overlap
never came within the reach of the Southern Pacific grant of
1871, because the title to them passed to the Atlantic and
Pacific Company on July 27, 1866. This was the necessary
and inevitable effect of the latter company's location of its
route in March, 1872.
If, then, the effect of locating the route of the Atlantic and
Pacific Company on the earth's surface in March, 1872, was to
vest the title of the lands in suit in that company as of the
27th day of July, 1866, as was undoubtedly the case under the
decisions of this court, it is difficult to comprehend by what
legal process the title so vested was cast upon the Southern
Pacific Company. The argument does not appear to be
advanced by showing that the Atlantic and Pacific Company
constructed no road in California, unless it can be also shown
that the lands in question, which, be it observed, were never
subject to the Southern Pacific grant, became, nevertheless,
vested in that company after Congress had declared them forfeited to the United States and restored to the public domain
by the act of 1886. Nor is it by any means apparent how the
judicial department of the government could, in any event,
decree lands to belong to the Southern Pacific Company which

UNITED STATES v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC R'D.

577

Argument for Appellant.

0ongress has declared by law shall be "restored to the public
domain," as forfeited by a delinquent grantee.
I. As to the lands lying within the granted limits of both
roads.
The objections to be first-considered under this head are that
the Atlantic and Pacific Company never lawfully designated
its line of route, (1) because it filed inaps, at different times,
of segments of its route, (2) because these maps were filed in
the office of the Secretary of the Interior, instead of the
General Land Office, and (3) because the route, as originally
designated, ran all the way from Springfield to San Francisco
via San Buenaventura.
The maps, thus filed, made, together, one continuous line of
location, and were approved by the Secretary of the Interior;
and it is no objection that they were filed at different times.
St. Paul & Pacifo Railroad v. Northern Pacific Railroad,
139 U. S.1, 18, 19.
The second objection is entirely confuted by the case of

Buttz v. -orthern Pacific Railroad, 119 U. S.55, 72, where
the grant required that the line of definite location should be
filed in the office of the Commissioner of the General Land
Office, but it was really filed in the office of the Secretary of
the Interior. The court, however, considered it as a matter
of indifference whether the filing was in the one office or the
other, the filing in the office of the Secretary being, to all
intents and purposes, a filing in the land department of the
government.
The remaining and third objection is, that if any line of
location at all is to be considered as having been filed, it was
one extending from Springfield to San Francisco, which,
having been disapproved as to the part running from San
Buenaventura to San Francisco, must be taken to have been
rejected in toto5 being an entirety.
This theory is diametrically opposed to the action of the
Interior Department, which has treated the line of route from
Springfield to San Buenaventura, as a valid designation under
the law. It is, -furthermore, opposed to the well-known
principle that where a transaction cannot have effect in the
VOL. CXLVI-37

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument for Appellant.

manner intended by the parties to it, it will be allowed to
operate in some other way, if possible, quando res -nor valet
zt ago ialeat quantum valere Potest. .Aanaivita Coal Co. V.
Tfanawlc& and Oo Coal Co., 7 Blatehford, 391; Jackson v.
Bowen, 7 Cowen, 13; Robinson v. Ryan, 25 N. Y. 325; Ruiqg-

gles v. Barton, 13 Gray, 506; Grover v. T/'atc~er, 4 Gray,
526; Ikent v. Hunt, 14 Pick. 374; S. C. 25 Am. Dec. 400;
Freeman v. .MieGraw, 15 Pick. 82.
Assuming that there was a valid location of the Atlantic
and Pacific route on March 12, 1872, it does not admnit of
question that the lands involved became, by operation of law,
subject to the grant of July 27, 1800, as of that day and date.
Schiulenberg v. 11arriman,21 Wall. 44; leaveniwortth, _Lawrnc
&c. Railroad v. United States, 92 U. S. 733; _Missou i, Janwa.:
& Texas Railway v. ifansas Pacific Railway, 97 U. S. 491 ;
Railway Co. v. Ailing, 99 U. S. 463; Van, Wyce v. Kneralq,
106 U. S. 360; St. Paul & Sioux City Railroad v. Winona
& St. Peter Railroad,112 U. S. 720.
It is true, the Atlantic and Pacific Company did not earn
the right, under the grant, to appropriate the lands in question as absolute owner, and that it lost all its rights in them
by forfeiture in 1S86; but that had no relevancy to the matter
in hand, seeing that the moment the line of its road was
located the legal title to the lands granted vested in the company with the same force and effect as if they had been
described in the grant by metes and bounds. If the title, thus
vested, was divested before the act of forfeiture in consequence
of the defaults of the Atlantic and Pacific Company, there
was no occasion for the enactment declaring that the lands
were "forfeited and restored to the public domain ?" And if,
in consequence of such defaults, the subsequent grant to the
Southern. Pacific Company attached to these lands in some
magical way, as yet undefined and unknown, why were they
"restored to the public domain" by the act of iSS6, when
they belonged to that company ?
The vitality of the grant to the Atlantic and Pacific Company was in no degree impaired by the default of the Company
touching the construction of its road in California. Lake

UNITED STATES v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC R'D.

5'79

Argument for Appellant.

Superior Ship Canal, etc. v. Canningham,44 Fed. Rep. 820.
So long as the United States chose to indulge that company
and condone its default under the grant, no person, natural or
artifici, had a right to treat the vested interests of the Atlantic and Pacific Company otherwise than they would have
treated them if that company had been punctually performing
the conditions of its grant. Sc]ulenbery v. h7arriman, 21
Wall. 44, 62; Frost v. Frostburg Coal Company, 24 How. 278.
The author of the grants here involved is the sovereign
owner of the land granted. It is not to Coke on Littleton or
Cruise's Digest that we go for the law of the grants, but to
the grants themselves; and when the grantor says that the
grant of a float shall take effect from its date and not the date
of its location, the sovereign will must have effect regardless
of consequences. Nothing could be more conclusive on this
subject than the language of Mr. Justice Field in Mlissouri,
Eansas & Texas Railway v. Kansas Pacific Railway, 97
U. S. 491, 497.
From the ground taken by the appellees' counsel, one might
suppose that the retroactive feature of land grants was an
anomaly in the law, instead of being a recent application of a
principle which has been commonly employed for ages, which
is known at common law as the doctrine of relation, and
which, as Maule, J., defined it in Graham v. Furber, 14 C. B.
152, is "treating a thing as happening at some preceding
time." See also Panter v. Attorney General, 6 Bro. P. C.
486; Latless v. ._tolmes, 4 T. R. 660; Regina v. Riley,
Dearsly, C. C. 149.
And do not our recording statutes all over the land provide
that, in certain cases, deeds shall operate from delivery by
relation, and not merely from the date of their recording?
And by relation the executor's and administrator's title goes
back to the decedent's death.
The doctrine of ratification, also, furnishes many examples
where the principle of relation operates precisely as it does in
land grants.
By the Roman law the birth of a posthumous child annulled
the father's will although he knew his wife to be enceinte; for

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument for Appellant.

by that law a child in itero could neither be instituted as heir
nor disinherited, and thus we see, that the father was by relation made to die intestate in consequence of an event against
which it was impossible for him to provide. 1 Demangeat,
Cours de Droit IRomain, 667, (3d ed. Paris, 1876.) This example is the more instructive when we remember that with the
,,Romans intestacy was a kind of misfortune, and sometimes a
blot on the intestate's memory.
A Roman taken by the enerhy became a slave, and from the
moment of capture all his rights as a Roman citizen ceased to
be operative; but if he returned to his country they revived by
the j uspostliminii,and he was reinstated in them not only for
the fatre, but for the past, and just as if he had never been
in the power of the enemy. 1 Ortolan Inst., 128, (10tb ed.
Paris, 1876.) Here, then, was another class of cases where the
doctrine of relation was applied with severity. The returned
captive resumed the rights he had left behind him (post limen)
utterly regardless of anything that had occurred during his
captivity.
It would be a waste of time to argue further in support of
the proposition that !he land lying within the granted limits
of the two companies was absolutely vested in the Atlantic
and Pacific Company from the date of the grant, and, therefore, was never subject to the Southern Pacific grant; and that,
as a corollary, the forfeiture of the Atlantic and Pacific grant
inured to the benefit of the United States alone.
II. As to lands within the indemnity limits of the Atlantic
and -Pacific and within the primary limits of the Southern
Pacific. This is the status of the lands involved in cases numbered 862 and 863.
When the AtlantiG and Pacific road was located in Mfarch,
1872, it not only supplanted the Southern Pacific road. as to
granted but also as to indemnity lands at the point of intersection. This was absohitely necessary to give proper effect
to the proviso. If the lands in the indemnity belt of the
Atlantic and Pacific were not subject to the grant of the
Southern Pacific at the time the latter's grant took effect, then
no change in their condition afterwards could bring them

UNITED STATES v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC R'D.

581

Argument for Appellant.

within the operation of the grant. Leavenworta &c. Railroad
v. United States, 92 U. S. 733.
Every right of the Atlantic and Pacific Company as to its
grant was as vital and operative up to the act of forfeiture as
it was when the grant was accepted in 1866. The unreasonableness of the opposite view is shown, at once, by asking:
At what time before the forfeiture did the grant begin to wane
and lose vigor? Certainly its force was unimpaired in 1871,
five year after its date, when Congress authorized the grantee
to mortgage its road. 17 Stat. 19, c. 33.
But if it is doubtful whether these indemnity lands passed
by the grant of the United States to the Southern Pacific
Company the mere existence of that doubt entitles the United
States to a decree for the surrender and cancellation of the
patents covering these lands, on the well-established principle
that public grants should be construed most strongly against
the grantee, and all doubts in them resolved in favor of the
government. Leavenwort dec. Railroad v. United States,
suprh ; Slidell v. Granjean, 111 U. S. 4:12.
III. As to lands through which the two roads have the
same general route.
A glance at the official map showing the lines of the two
roads at and near the point of .intersection, shows that for
some distance before the lines cross they pursue the same
general route, and thus the Southern Pacific grant is brought
directly within the operation of the last proviso of section 3 of
the act of July 22, 1866, which provides: "That if said route
shall be found upon the line of any other railroad route, to
aid in the construction of which lands have been heretofore
granted by the United States, so far *as the routes are upon
the same general line, the amount of land heretofore granted
shall be deducted from the amount granted by this act."
It is claimed for the government that this is an express
limitation on the Southern Pacific grant, and requires a withdrawal from the grant of all lands within its limits to the full
extent that that road runs on the same general rout( as the
Atlantic and Pacific.
IV. As to lands within the claimed limits of the 'an Jos6

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument for Appellees.

grant. These lands were subjudice, on the 3d of April, 1871,
and came within the principle laid down in Doolan v. Carr,
125 U. S. 618, 632, where the court said: "Indeed, this exclusion did not depend upon the validity of the claim asserted, or
its final establishment, but upon the fact .that there existed a
claim of a right under a grant by the Mexican government,
wvhich was yet undetermined, and to which, therefore, the
lhraseI public lands' could not attach, and which the statute
did not include, although it might be found within the limits
prescribed on each side of the road when located."
-Mr. Joseph ff. Call, special attorney on belalf of the
United States, filed a brief for appellant.
.r.

James C. Carterfor appellees.

The facts warrant us in saying that these suits, brought by
the government to annul its grants, did not originate in any
substantial failure, real or pretended, by the Southern Pacific
Company to earn the lands by a prompt and faithful perforinance of every condition imposed. upon it; nor in any actual
inability on the part of the government to convey the particular lands in dispute arising out of other dispositions,
actual or contemplated, of the said lands, and of consequent
conflict with other interests. It is not questioned that the
company faithfully constructed the road according to the requirements of the law, nor that the same was duly accepted.
It is admitted that at the time the patents were issued the
lands embraced by them were a part of the public domain,
fieo £rqm any appropriation or claim which constituted any
obstacle in the way of conveying them to the company, and
were in all respects disposable by the government for the purpose of aiding its railroad enterprises.
So far, therefore, as the main discussion goes, it resolves
itself into these three questions: (1) Whether the Atlantic
and Pacific Company ever designated its route; (2) whether
such a designation, if made, operated, from the mere circumstance that the grant to this company was prior in time to

UNITED STATES v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC R'D.

583"

Argument for Appellees.

that made to the Southern Pacific Company, to exclude the
lands in the overlapping limits at the place of crossing from
the latter grant; (3) whether, if such designation was made,
the proviso in § 23 of the act of -March 3, 1871, protecting the
rights "present and prospective" of the Atlantic and Pacific
Company was designed for any other purpose than to save to
it any lands which it might eventually earn by a full performance of its undertaking.
There is, however, another ground upon which a portion of
the grant is assailed, viz.: that, after the confirmation by the
California Land Commission created by Congress in 1851, and,
on appeal, by the District Court of the United States for the
Southern District of California, and by the Supreme Court of
the United States, of a certain Mexican grant for a place
called San Jos6, certain surveys were had for the purpose of
ascertaining and settling the bounds of the confirmed grant;
that one of them, called the Hancock survey, did not embrace
within its limits the lands in question, but that another, called
the Thompson survey, did embrace them; that these surveys
were before the proper officers of the government for many
years, and were neither of them finally and completely
adopted, but that on June 17th, 1871, both were set aside and
another was adopted and confirmed by the proper authorities
of the United States; and that, although this did not embrace
any of the lands.in question, yet that the circumstance that
an unauthorized survey did embrace them, rendered the lands
subjudice, as the phrase is, and took from them the character
of public lands of the United States subject to grant, which
otherwise they would have had; and that, consequently, they
were excluded from both the railroad grants of 1866 and 1871,
whether made to the Atlantic and Pacific or to the Southern
Railroad Company.
I. Are there any reasons arising out of rigid and unyielding
rules of law which support the claim made by the government
in these suits? This is the main subject of this argument. It is
a safe observation to make at the start, to say that there is
nothing else to support them. Cases more destitute of substantial equity could scarcely be imagined.

OCTOBER

TEB£ Mt, 1892.

Argument for Appellees.

It must be admitted (1) that Congress intended that ,he
company should have these identical lands; (2) that the proviso upon the strength of which the government bases its
main effort to withhold the lands from the company was
inserted only by way of tender regard for the possible rights
of the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company; (3) that the
possible contingency contemplated by this proviso, in which
the government would be unable to carry out its purpose of
bestowing these lands upon the Southern Pacific Company,
has not arisen, and can never arise; and (4) that the Southern
Pacific Company has promptly, completely, in good faith and
to the satisfaction of every department of the government
having any concern with the matter, complied with every
condition of its grant. And yet, in the face of all this, the
government, by these suits, seeks to wrest these lands from
the company, not because it wishes to apply them to sorae
purpose of its own to which they had been devoted prior to
the grant, nor because it needs them in order to enable it to
fulfil some prior engagement with other parties; but simply
in order to restore them -to the public domain where they
were at the time of the grant, in order that it may deal with
them as its own absolute property and as it pleases. In this
there is not only no equity, but an amazing inequity.
II. So far as concerns any question in these causes, the corporation formed under the laws of California, under the name
of the Southern Pacific Railroad Company, on December 2,
1865, and which became amalgamated under the same name
with other companies, by articles of amalgamation, dated
October 11, 1870, and afterwards amended on April 11, 1871,
did not cease to exist or lose its identity by the subsequent
amalgamation under articles dated August 12, 1873; and was
the same corporation to which the grant of M'darch 3, 1871,
was made, and which constructed the road thereunder, and is
now one of the defendants in this action.
The several corporations amalgamated were of the same
character. They were after, as well as before, consolidation,
railroad persons, possessing powers of precisely the same
nature'; and the legislative intent that identity and continuity

UNITED STATES v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC R'D.

585

Argument for Appellees.

of existence should not be destroyed is entirely clear. The
legislative provision under which the consolidation was effected was a part of the general law of California. It was
the evident purpose of Congress to conaect and associate the
franchises, which it granted, with those which its grantee had
received from the State of California. It could not have contemplated that upon any such change that company would
have authority under its state charter to proceed and construct the road, and yev that its own grant for that purpose
would thereupon fail.
III. If it be said that the grant was of a franchise, or that
a franchise was the principal subject of it, still the title of the
Southern Pacific Company would not be thereby impaired.
Franchises themselves are assignable with the assent of the
govermnent granting them, and such assent was in the present
case given. Thomas v. Railroad Co., 101 U. S. '71; N5ew
Orleans, Spanish Fort &c. Railroad v. Delamore, 114 U. S.
501.
IV. The attempt made by the bill to impeach the title of
the Southern Pacific Company to lands which lie within the
alleged intersecting limits of the grant to that company and
of the prior grant to the Atlantic and Pacific Company, where
the two routes cross, is wholly destitute of support in any of
the forms in which it is made.
(a) It would be a sufficient answer to this objection to point,
as the learned judges in the court below did, to its total want
of equity. lothihig can be clearer than that the lands in dispute were destined and dedicated by Congress to the object
of procuring railroad lines to the Pacific. Several independent
routes were designed and provided for; and, inasmuch as such
routes could not be definitely located by Congress itself when
it made the grants, it was necessary to leave it to the companies themselves to make the definite location, subject, of
course, to certain limitations prescribed by the acts making the
grants This necessarily involves the possible consequence of
an overlap when the routes should be finally located; and in
such ease the conflicting rights would be settled, except perhaps where the lines were fofind on the same gpeneral route,

OCTOBER TERlAf, 1892.
Argument for Appellees.

by giving priority to the prior grant when the grants were of
different dates, provided both grantees were otherwise entitled
to the land; and, if the grants were of the same date, by applying the equitable rule of equal enjoyment, and awarding
a moiety to each. In respect to lands in indemnity limits,
priority would depend, not on the comparative dates of the
grants, but on the dates of selection.
But to hold that the same course was to be pursued where
the company having the prior grant had never done anything
to earn the land which it might otherwise claim, and whose
rights had been absolutely extinguished by formal forfeiture,
and the company having the later grant had earned its land
by a prompt compliance with every obligation, that is to say,
to apply a doctrine applicable only to disputes between two
grantees, both of whom had confessedly earned the land and
were entitled to it as against the United States, the-grantor,
to a case where one had earned it and the other had not
earned, and never could earn it, and thus make the default of
one the very ground of robbing the other of his well-earned
reward, would seem to be a mere caricature of justice, hardly
entitled to the compliment of formal refutation.
(b) All forms of this objection now under notice rest upon
the proposition that the Atlantic and Pacific Company had
actually designated its route in accordance with the act of July
27, 1866. But that (.)mpany never has designated any route in
accordance with the terms of the grant made to it, and the
objection to the title of the Southern Pacific Company now
under notice, in whatever form asserted, must fail.
The route actually selected by the Atlantic and Pacific
Company was made up of fragmentary portions, having no
connection with each other, and adopted and filed wit'. the
Land Department at different times. If we concede that it
was competent to that company to thus designate its route in
fragments, it did not become designated until the filing of the
last portions of it, which was on August 15, 1872, and probably not until their acceptance in August, 1874.
(c) But conceding, for the sake of argument, that the
Atlantic and Pacific Company made a sufficient designation

UNITED ST-ATES v. SOUTHERN PACTFIC R'D.

587

Argument for Appellees.

of its route, the pretence that by this act, without more, the
Southern Pacific Company was prevented from acquiring
title to the lands in controversy, has as little foundation in
technical rules as it has in the principles of equity. The settled doctrines of this court in relation to grants of land for
railroads very clearly overthrow it. Wisconsin Central Rail
.road v. Price County, 133 U. S. 496; St. Paul & Pacific
Railroad v. Northern Pacific Railroad,139 U. S. 1; Missouri, Kansas & Texas Railway v. Kfansas Pacific Railwdy,
97 U. S. 491,497; St. Paul & Sioux"City Railroad v. Tlinona
& St. Peter Railroad,112 U. S. 720; Cedar Rapids & .Missouri River Railroad v. Herring,110 U. S. 27.
(d) The counsel for the government have made it their
chief effort to show that the lands in controversy were, or
have been, in some form excepted from the grant to that
company, so that the' grant was not operative up6n them; and
if this were so, it 'would be very true that no considerations
of justice or equity- would be pertinent to the discussion.
That company can certainly lay no legal or equitable claim to
lands never intended-,to' be granted to it.
The Southern Pacifi Company had the right to proceed at
Once to designate its route, which it did by filing its plat on
the 3d of April, 1871. This was immediately operative. to
attach the grant made to the company to the lands embraced
in it generally, all alQng -that route. Nor can it be doubted
that by 'the designation, the grant to the Southern Pacific
Company became inrmediately operative upon the lands in
controversy, and gave to that- company pre.cisely the same
right or title theret6 which it gave iA respect toall the other
lands along its. route.- Whether this inchoate title was subject to be overridden and displaced by a subsequent designation of route under the prior grant to the Atlantic and Pacific
Company, is quite another question. Doubtless it was; but
this did not prevent the grant from attaching to -the lands;
indeed, it assumes that the grant did attach; for, otherwise it
could not be displaced. The pretence, therefore, that thelands were excepted from the grant to the Southern Pacific
Company must be dismissed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument for Appellees.

If we test this asserted exception by the rules applicable to
the construction of written grants, (4 Cruise Dig. 271,) it is at
once manifest that it is no exception at all. (1) The first
rule is that an exception must be created by apt words. This
means that the words must import an intent to except sonic
part of a thing previously granted from the operation of the
grant. But these words disclose no such intent. (2) Another
rule is that the thing excbpted "must be part of the thing
granted; for if the exception extends to the whole it will be
void." But this so-called exception applies indifferently to
the entire premises, and is as applicable to one part as another.
(3) Another rule is that the thing excepted "must be certainly described and set down." This is only a. formal statement of what common sense teaches, that a grant of premiscs
must be certain in respect to the subject matter granted. It
must be known, and known from the terms of the grant itself,
what is intended to be conveyed by it, and what not. Otherwise it can never be executed, or any title given by it enforced.
If it is attempted to exclude some part of the thing from the
operation of the grant, that thing must be described so that it
can be known. But how could it be told when the route of
the Southern Pacific Company was located, what part of the
lands to which it became attached was excluded by the prior
grant to the Atlantic and Pacific Company, which was then
a mere float, and might never be anything more.
If, turning aside from technical rules, we look at the situation at the time of the making of the grant to the Southern
Pacific Company, and the probable purposes of Congress, the
just conclusion concerning the meaning of this proviso, if,
upon the face of it, a doubt could be indulged, will become
very manifest. The proviso that the grant to the Southern
Pacific Company should not "impair the rights, present or
prospective, of the Atlantic and Pacific Company," neatly
and perfectly accomplished the precise intent of Congress. It
made the grant of lands to the former company immediately
operative and capable of execution; but saved any rights of
the latter company.- If the latter company ever constructed
its road, it would be entitled to the lands in the overlapping

UNITED STATES v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC R'D.

589

Argument for Appellees.

limits. If it should not construct its road, there never would
be any overlapping limits, and, therefore, no impediments in
the way of the grant to the Southern Pacific Company.
(e) This attempted exception is sought to be supported 'upon
another provision of the grant itself, namely, that found in
section 3 of the act of July 27, 1866, providing, that in case
the route should be found upon the line of any other road to
which a land grant had theretofore been made, a deduction
should be made of so much as had been previously granted
from the amount granted by the later act, "so far as the
routes are upon the same general line." This view seems
wholly destitute of substance.
(f) The conclusion of this whole discussion of the attempt
of the government to make out an exception in the grant to
the Southern Pacific Company is, that the case is simply that
of two grants which would, if the conditions of both had been
complied with, have resulted in a conflict at a certain point.
Had that collision arisen, the rival claims would have been at
once determined by the inquiry which is the prior, and which
is the later grant. The grant to the Southern Pacific Company was the later one in two ways: first, by the express language of the proviso; and, second, by the rule of interpretation
that grants take effect from their dates, and not from the dates
of location of routes.
But the conditions of the prior grant never having been
complied with, there has been no collision. And that grant
having been absolutely forfeited, no collision ever can take
place. The later grant is the only existing one, and there is
nothing in the way of its complete operation.
(g) A final illustration of the infirmity of the position of the
government may be found by looking at its attitude as a complainant in these suits, seeking to establish in itself the legal
title to the lands in controyersy.
There are two aspects only in which it can maintain such a
suit; (1), where it can succeed in showing that it has the right
to both the legal and the equitable or beneficial titles; that
is to say, where the lands belong to the general public domain,
to be disposed of by the government as any absolute proprie-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument for Appellees.

tor might dispose of his lands for any purpose, sale, settlement,
pregmption or otlW;
(2) where it needs the legal title in order
to deal with it in conformity with some appropriation already
made of the lands, which it is the duty of the government to
carry out and perfect.

U-nited States v. -Missouri,Jiansas&

Texas Railwmiy, 141 U. S. 358, 368, 380. In neither of these
aspects can these suits be maintained.
(1) They cannot be in the first aspect, which, indeed, is the
one in which they are avowedly brought. The United States
have no beneficial interest in these lands. It intentionally
parted with all that interest by the two grants which have
been discussed.
(2) Nor can these suits be maintained in the second aspect.
In the first place, it is enough to say that the government does
not pretend to bring the suits in that aspect. It does not pretend that it needs the legal title in order that it may hold it
and in due time convey it to the Atlantic and Pacific Company. It disclaims and repudiates that attitude. It asserts
that that company has wholly forfeited its rights, and that it
never will convey the lands to it. )But even if it did not assert
this, but affected to want the title in order to bestow it upon
the Atlantic and Pacific Company, that would not alter the
conclusion; for, whether the one oi: the other of these companies has the title, is' a question between them, and to be
settled by a.suit between them, and not in a suit brought by
the United States.
(h) The view taken by the government to the effect that
these lands have been, in some manner, excepted from the
grant to the Southern Pacific Company, either by reason of
that grant being subsequent in date to the grant to the Atlantic and Pacific Company, or in consequence of the proviso,
seems to have been supposed by some officers of the Land
Depqxtment to be- supported by the decisions of this court;
and the supposal was acquiesced in, in an obiter fashion,
though the assent was aterwards withdrawn, by the learned
judge of the District Court. There is no suh support for this
view. On the contrary, the positi6ns and the reasoning of
this- brief are fully sustained by a long series of decisions of

UNITED STATES v. SOUTHERN rACIFIC R'D. 591
Argument for Appellees.

this court. Missouri, Kansas & Texas Railway v. Eansas
Pacific Railway, 97 U. S. 491; Ifansas Pacific Railroad v.
Atchison, Topeka &c. Railroad,112 U. S. 414 ; St. Paul &
Sioux City Railroad v. Vinona & St. Peter Railroad,Id. 720;
Sioux City & St. Paul Railroad v. Chicago, _Milwaukee & St.
Paul Railway, 117 U. S. 406. See also Schulenberg v. ifarri-"
man, 21 Wall. 44; and Tran llyck v. .K-evals, 106 U. S. 360;
both cited by the counsel for the government. The doctrine
declared by these cases is well stated in the opinion in the
latter by the following language: ". third party cannot take
upon himself to enforce conditions attached to the grant, when
the government does not complain of their breach," p. 369.
V. The ground is taken by the complainants as to some of
the lands in controversy, that they were not included within
the grants, either to the Atlantic and Pacific or to the Southern Pacific Company, for the reason that they were within,
not, indeed, the real limits, but within the claimed limits of
the Mexican grant called San Jos6. This ground of objection
cannot be maintained.
If it were indeed true that the lands in question, or any of
them, were at the time of the making of the grant to the
Southern Pacific Company really within the limits of a Mexican grant, which was sub judice, as the phrase is, they would
not pass by the grant- not for the 'reason that they were
within any express exception, but because such grants are
understood to be only of public lands; and it has been held
that lands within the boundaries of a Mexican grant, not fully
adjudicated upon, do not fall within the description of public
lands, as those words are understood in the interpretation of
grants, such as these, for the purpose of aiding in the construction of railroads.
But this proposition is not sufficient for the purposes of the
complainants. It is admitted that none of the lands in controversy were actually within the boundaries of the Mexican
grant called San Jos6, as the same was confirmed and finally
patented. What is alleged is, that they were within the
claimed limits of that grant; that is to say, that there was at
some time or other, before the final survey, which was had

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

after the final confirmation of the grant, a claim on the part
of the grantees that the boundaries of the grant embraced a
larger area than that for which the patent was issued, and
included some of the lands in controversy.
The proposition, therefore, which the complainants must
maintain, 'or their case in this respect wholly fails, is, not that
lands within the boundaries of a Mexican grant do not belong
to the category of public lands, but that lands outside of such
boundary, as well as lands within it, are in like manner excluded from that category, provided that there is a claim that
the lands are included within the boundaries of the grant.
This proposition finds no support in reason or in the policy
upon which the rule really established, as above mentioned,
stands. Yewhall v. Sanger, 92 IU.S. 761; Doolan v. Carr,
125 U. S. 618; United States v. f lctagdin, 127 U. S. 428.
MR.XusTien BEwER delivered the opinion of the court.

The question to be considered is not as to the validity of the
grant to the Southern Pacific Company, but only as to its
extent. It may be conceded that the compariy took title to
lands generally along its line, from Tehachapa Pass to its
junction with the Texas Pacific; and the contention of the
government is here limited to those lands only which lie
within the granted limits of both the Atlantic and Pacific and

the Southern Pacific Companies, at the crossing of their lines,
as definitely located. As it appears from the record that, at
the time of the location of the former company's line, so many
of the tracts within these overlapping limits had been taken
up by preemption and homestead entries that the indemnity
limits were not large enough to supply its deficiency, it is obvious that the land to be affected by this decision is of limited
area in comparison with the large body of lands covered by
the grant to the Southern Pacific.
The contention of the government is, that these lands were
not included within the grant to the Southern Pacific. Such
contention implies nio want of good faith on its part. It is
not attempting to take back or forfeit that which it has once

UNITED STATES v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC R'D.

59

Opinion of the Court.

granted. It is only seeking, a difference of opinion having
arisen, an adjustment, a determination of the extent of its
grant. Less than that could not be expected; more than that
could not be asked of it.
The grants to both the Atlantic and Pacific and the Southern Pacific Companies were grants in prwsenti. The language
is, "there be, and hereby is, granted." The construction and
effect of such words of grant have often been considered by
this court. In the recent case of St. Paul andPacific Railroad
Company v. Northern Pacific Railroad Gompany, 139 U. S. 1,
5, Mr. Justice Field, speaking for the court, said: "As seen by
the terms of the third section of the act, the grant is one in
yorosenti; that is, it purports to pass a present title to the lands
designated by alternate sections, subject to such exceptions
and reservations as may arise from sale, grant, prebmption or
other disposition previous to the time the definite route of the
road is fixed. The language of the statute is, 'that there be,
and hereby is, granted' to the company every alternate section of the lands designated, which implies that the property
itself is passed, not any special or limited interest in it. The
words also import a transfer of a present title, not a promise
to transfer one in the future. The route not being at the
time determined, the grant was in the nature of a float, and
the title did not attach to any specific-sections until they were
capable of identification; but when once identified the titleattached to them as of the date of the grant, except as to such
sections as were specifically reserved. It is in this sense that
the grant is termed one in prmresenti; that is to say, it is of
that character as to all lands within the terms of the grant,
and not reserved from it at the time of the definite location of
the route. This is the construction given to similar grants by
this court, where the question has been often considered;
indeed, it is so well settled as to be no longer open to discussion. Schulenbergv. Harriman,21 Wall. 44, 60; -Leavenworth,
.Lawrence &ce. Railroad Co. v. United States, 92 U. S. '733;
Missouri, Kansas &c.Railway Co. v. Kansas Pacific Railway
Co., 97 U. S. 491; Railroad Co. v. Baldwin, 103 U. S. 426.
The terms of present grant are in some cases qilalified by
VOL. cxLvi-38

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

other portions of the granting act, as in the case of Rice v.
Railroad Co., I Black, 358; but unless qualified they are to
receive the interpretation mentioned."
In view of this late and clear declaration, it would be a
waste of time to attempt a reexamination of the questions,
or a restatement of the reasons which have established these
as the settled rules of law in respect to land grants, and made
it so that the old common law rule as to the necessity of
identification to a conveyance has not been controlling in determining the scope and effect of a Congressional land grant.
Yet reference may be had to the still later case of Bordon v.
1To)rtherL Paciftc R~ailroad,145 U. S. 535, in which the doctrine that title passes by relation as of the date of the grant
was held to exclude from a grant land which, at the date of
the act, was held under a homestead claim, althougi the claim
had been abandoned, and the land restordd to the public
domain before the filing of the map of defthite location. It
may also not be amiss to notice the case of Sclulenberg v.
Harriman,21 Wall. 44. In that case iand had been granted
to the State of Wisconsin, to aid in"
the construction of a railroad. The language of the grant was like that in this:
"There - be, and is hereby, granted." A further provision
was that if the road be not completed within ten years, "no
further sales shall be made, and the lands unsold shall revert
to thb United States." The railroad was not completed
within the time specified. Thereafter timber was cut and
removed from these lands, and the question for consideration
was as to the ownership of that timber. It was held that the
timber was the property of the State; that by the grant, title
to the land passed to the State upon the location of the route;
and that, though the road was not comjAeted within the time
specified, and though there' was the prov sion that the unsold
lands should revert, yet the title stiM remained in the State,
held under a condition subsequent, and held until the government should take some steps to asser a forfeiture.
Applying these well-settled rules to the cases at bar, there
can be little difficulty in arriving at a conclusion. The grant
to the Atlantic and Pacific was made in 1866; to the Southern

UNITED STATES v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC R'D.

595

Opinion of the Court.

Pacific in 1871. They were grants in prmsenti. When maps
of definite location were filed and approved, the grants severally took effect by relation as of the dates of the acts. The
map of definite location of the Atlantic and Pacific Company's road along the lands in controversy was filed and
approved on April 11, 1872. Then the specific tracts were
designated, and to them the title of the Atlantic and Pacific
attached as of July 27, 1866. If anything in the land laws
of the United States can be considered as thoroughly settled
by repeated decisions, it is this. It matters not when the
map of definite location of the Southern Pacific was filed and
approved, whether before or after April 11, 1872; for when
filed the grant could take effect by relation only as of March
3, 1871, and at that time, and for nearly five years theretofore,
the title to these lands had been in the Atlantic and Pacific.
It matters not that the act of 1871 in terms purports to bestow
the same rights, grants and privileges as were granted to
the Southern Pacific Railroad Company by the act of 1866.
That merely defines the extent of the grant and the character
of the rights and privileges; it does not operate to make the
latter grant take effect by relation as of the date of the prior
grant, and thus subject the grants to the two companies to
the rule controlling cotemporaneous grants, as established
by St. Paul & Sioux City Railroad v. Winona & St. Peter
Railroad,112 U. S. 720, and Sioux City & St. Paul Railroad
v. Chicago, ]Milwaukee &c. Railway, 117 U. S. 406. Even if
Congress had in terms expressed an intent to that effect in a
subsequent act, it was not competent, by such legislation, to
divest the rights already vested in the Atlantic and Pacific
Company. So the case, in the best way of putting it for the
defendant, is the case of two companies with conflicting
grants, each of whose line of definite location has been approved, by the Land Department. Unquestionably, the grant
older in date takes the land.
Some stress seems to have been laid in the court below on
the proviso to the act of 1871, which reads: "Provided, however, that this section shall in no way affect or impair the
pights, present or prospective, of the At~antic and Pacific

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

Railroad Company, or any other railroad company." But the
language of this proviso is negative and restrictive, and not
affirmative and enlarging. It sa's substantially that nothing
in the grant to the Southern Pacific shall affect or impair
other grants. Surely the declaration that this grant does not
affect some other grant, does not make this grant any larger
than it would have been without that declaration. It simply
prevents it from having any effect, which, but for the declaration, it might be supposed to have on something else. If without those words it could take nothing granted to the Atlantic
and Pacific, afortioriwith them it takes nothing.
iBut it is urged by counsel for defendant that no map of
definite location of line between the Colorado River and the
Pacific Ocean was ever filed by the Atlantic and Pacific or
approved by the Secretary of the Interior. This contention
is based upon these facts: The Atlantic and Pacific Company
claimed that, under its charter, it was authorized to build a
road from the Colorado River to the Pacific Ocean, and thence
along the coast up .to San Francisco; and it filed maps thereof
in four sections. San Buenaventura was the point where the
westward line first touched the Pacific Ocean. One of these
maps was of that portion of the line extending from the
western boundary of Los Angeles County, a point east of San
Buenaventura, and through that place to San Miguel Mission,
in the direction of San Francisco. Inother words, San Buenaventura was not the terminus of any line of definite location
from the Colorado River westward, whether shown by one or
more maps, but only an intermediate point on one sectional
map. When the four maps were filed, and in 1872, the Land
Department, holding that the Atlantic and Pacific Company
was authorized to build not only from the Colorado River
directly to the Pacific Ocean, but also thence north to San
Francisco, approved them as establishing the line of definite
location. Subsequently, and --when Mr. Justice Lamar was
Secretary of the Interior, the matter was reexamined, and it
was properly held that under the act of 1S66, the grant to the
Atlantic and -Pacificwas exhausted when its line reached the
'Pacific Ocean. San Buenaventura was, therefore, held to be

UNITED STATES v. SOUTIERN PACIFIC R'D.

597

Opinion of the Court.

the western terminus, and the location of the line -approved
to that point. The fact that its line was located, and maps
filed thereof in sections, is immaterial. St. Paul & Pacifto
Railroadv. Northiern Pacific Railroad,139 U. S. 1. Indeed,
all the transcontinental roads, it is believed, filed their maps
of route in sections. So the question is whether the filing a
map of definite location from the Colorado River through -San
Buenaveatura to San Francisco, under a claim of right to construct a road the entire distance, is good as a map of definite
location from the Colorado River to San Buenaventura, the
latter point being the limit of the grant. We think, unqestionably, it is. Though a party claims more than he is legally
entitled to, his claim ought not to be rejected for that to which
he has a right. The purpose of filing a map of definite location is to enable the Land Department to designate the lands
passing under the grant; and when a map of such a line is
filed, full information is given, and, so far as that line may
legally extend, the law perfects the title. It surely cannot
be that a company must determine at its peril the extent to
which its grant may go, or that a mistake in such determination works a forfeiture of all its rights to lands.
In this connection, reference may be. had to the contention
of the Southern Pacifi3 Company, that it filed its map of
definite location on April 3, 1871, more than a year before
the filing of its map by the Atlantic and Pacific Company;
that, therefore,.its title then attached to these lands, the same
as to any other lands along its line; and that, if such title
was displaced by any subsequent filing of the Atlantic and
Pacific Company's map, it was only conditionally displaced;
that is, displaced on condition that the Atlantic and Pacific
Company should, by the final completion of its road, perfect
its right thereto. But whatever title or right the Southern
Pacific Company might acquire by a prior filing of its map
was absolutely displaced when the Atlantic and Pacific Company's map was filed. Illy as it may accord with the common law notions of identification of tracts as essential to a
valid transfer of title, it is fully settled that we are to construe these acts of Congress as laws as well as grants; that

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

Congress intends no scramble between companies for the
grasping of titles by priority of location, but that it is to be
regarded as though title passes as of the date of the act, and
to the company having priority of grant, and, therefore, that
in the eye of the law it is now as though there never was a
period of time during which any title to these lands was in
the Southern Pacific. As said in the case of .Missouri,Kansas
& Texas Railway v. Kansas Pacifc Railway, 97 U. S. 491,
497:
"It is always to be borne in mind, in construing a Congressional grant, that the act by which it is made is a law as
well as a conveyance, 'and that such effect must be given to it
as will carry out the intent of Congress. That intent should
not be defeated by applying to the grant the rules of the
common law, which are properly applicable only to transfers
between private parties. To the validity of such transfers it
may be admitted that there must exist a present power of
identification of the land; and that where no such power
exists, inwstruments, ith words of present grant, are operative,
if at all, only as contracts to convey. But the rules of the
common law must yield in this, as in all other cases, to the
legislative will."
So now, whatever may have been the dates of filing by the
respective companies, the case stands as though the lands
granted to the Atlantic and Pacific had been identified in
1866, and title had then passed, and there never was a title of
any kind vested in the Southern Pacific Company.
And whatever of plausibility there might be in this suggestion of counsel, based upon the old common law rules in i s)ct to the effect of a lack of identificatioi ppon attempted
conveyances between private parties, it fails entirely because
its map of definite location was not filed by the Southern
Pacific Company until long after bhe filing by the Atlantic
and Pacific Company. It is true that the bills of complaint
in these cases allege that "said Southern Pacific Railroad
Company accepted said grant, and on A~ril 3, 1871, did designate the line of its said road by a plat thereof, which it on
that day fied in the office of the Commissioner of the General

UNITED STATES v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC R'D.

599

Opinion of the Court.

Land Office, and did onstruct and complete said road in the
manner and within the time prescribed, except that it.did not
connect with the Texas and Pacific Railroad, and on April 3,
1871, the odd sections of public land for thirty miles in width
on each side of said route, to which the United States had full
title, not reserved, sold, granted, appropriated and free from
all claims and rights, were, by the Department of the Interior, ordered withdrawn from sale and entry and reserved."
This allegation apparently refem by its terms to the line of
definite location, as provided for in section 3 of the act of
July 27, 1866, inasmuch as it uses the words of that section,
to wit, "at the time the line of said road is designated by a
plat thereof." And if this were a matter vital to the case; it
might be necessary to require that the bill be amended to
conform to the proof, though it may be remarked that the
allegations in the last part of the clause quoted, in respect
to the withdrawal of lands, seem to indicate that the map
of general route rather than that of definite location was referred to
The distinction between the line of definite location and the
general route is well known. It was clearly pointed out in
the case of Buttz v. Northern Paciflo .RailroadCo., 119 U. S.
55. The act under consideration in that case was that of July
2, 1864, 13 Stat. 365, making a grant to the :Northern Pacific
Railroad Company. The third section of that -ct, as the
third of this, made the grant, and provided for tlhe line of
definite location. Section 6 authorized the fixing-of tih, general route, 'and its language in respect to that mattef is the
same as that of section 6 of the act before us. It reads:
"That the President of the United States shall cause tire
lands to be surveyed for forty miles in width on both sides of
the entire line of said road, after the general route shall be
fixed, and as fast as may be required by the construction of
said railroad; and the odd sections of land hereby granted
shall not be liable to sale or entry' etc. Referring to this
matter, it was said in the opinion in that case, on pages 71
,and 72: "The act of Congress not only contemplates the
filing by the company, in the office of the Commissioner of

OCTOBERl

TEIRM, 1892.

Opinion of the Court.

the General- Land Office, of a map showing the definite location of the-line of its road, and limits the grant to such alternate odd sections as have not, at that time, been reserved,
sold, granted or otherwise appropriated, and are free from
preemption, grant or other claims or rights; but it also contemplates a prel-hinary designation of the general route of
the road, and the exclusion from sale, entry or preemption of
the adjoining odd sections within forty miles on each side,
until the definito location is made.

.

.

.

The general route

may be considered as fixed when its general course and direction are determined after an actual examination of the country or from a knowledge of it, and is designated by a line on
a map showing the general features of the adjacent country
and the places through or by which it will pass. The officers
of the Land Department axe expected to exercise supervision
over the matter so as to require good faith on the part of the
-company in designating the general route, and not to accept
an arbitrary and capricious selection of the line irrespective of
the character of the country tlhough which the road is to be
constructed. When the general route of the road is thus fixed
in good faith, and information thereof given to the Land Department by filing the map thereof with the Commissioner of
the General Land Office, or the Secretary of the Interior, the
law withdraws from sale or preemption the odd sections to
the extent of forty miles on each side. The object of the law
in this particular is plain; it is to preserve the land for the
company to which, in aid of the construction of the road, it is
granted. Although the act does not require the officers of the
Land Department to give notice to the local land officers of
the withdrawal of the odd sections from sale or premption,
it has been the practice of the Department in such cases, to
formally withdraw them."
As the act of July 27, 1866, the one before us, is in these
respects exactly like that of. the one before the court in that
case, it must be held that here, as there, Congress provided
for two §eparate matters; one the fixing of the general route,
and the other the designation of the line of definite location;
and an examination of the evidence shows that the map which

UNITED STATES v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC

'D.

601

Opinion of the Court.

was filed on April 3, 1871, was simply one of general route,
ard therefore did not work a des gn tion of the tracts of land
to which the Southern Pacific's grant attached. As the map
was filed within one month after the grant, it might be inferred that there had not been sufficient time to fix the line of
definite location, though, of course, it would be possible, as
counsel suggests, that the company had surveyed the line in
anticipation of the grant, and the matter of time would not
be decisive. But turning to the map itself, a copy of which
is in evidence, we find that this is the certificate made thereon
by the Southern Pacific Company:
To Hon. C. Delano, Secretary of the Interior, and Hon.
Willis Drummond, Commissioner of General Land Office:
"Please to take notice that this map is filed by the Southern
Pacific Railroad Company, of California, in the office of the
Commissioner of the General Land Office, in the Department
of the Interior, for the purpose of designating by the heavy
red line traced thereon the general route of the line of railroad, as near as may be, from a point at or near Tehachapa
Pass, by way of Los Angeles to the Texas Pacific.Railroad at
or near the Colorado River, adopted by the said Southern
Pacific Railroad Company in pursuance of the power and
authority granted to said company by the 23d section of the
act of Congress of the United States, entitled ' An act to incorporate the Texas Pacific Railroad Company, and to aid in the
construction of its road, and for other purposes,' approved
March 3, 1871, and in pursuance of the provisions of the act
of July 27, 1866, referred to in said 23d section, and for the
purpose of obtaining the benefit of the provisions of said acts
of Congress.
"CHAS. CROCKERm,

"President, Southern Paifcle Railroad Company."
Not only that, but upon the filing of the map, and on April
21, 1871, the Commissioner of the General Land Office sent to
the r, ceiver at Los Angeles a letter making a direction of withdrawal, in which he says, referring to this matter: "The com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

pany having filed a diagram designating the general route of
said road, I herewith transmit a map showing thereon the line
of route, as also the 20 and 30-mile limits of the grant, to the
line of withdrawal for the Southern Pacific Railroad under
the act of 1866, and you are hereby directed to withhold from
sale or location, preemption or homestead entry all the oddnumbered sections falling within those limits." ,
Further, there is in evidence an exemplification of a diagram
in the Land -Office, showing the limits of the grant to the
Atlantic and Pacific Company, with the intersecting limits of
the grant to the Southern Pacific Company, on which diagram
appear two lines, one traced in blue, and marked "branch of
the Southern Pacific Railroad;" and the other in red, somewhat divergent therefrom, marked "Southern Pacific Railroad, definite location." Still further, on the minutes of the
proceedings of meetings of the directors of the Southern
Pacific road, held on April 10, September 8, and October 1,
1874, appear resolutions similar in their character, but having
reference to different parts of the line between Tehachapa
Pass and the Texas Pacific Railroad.
The one passed at themeeting on April 10, 1874, is in these
words:
"Resolved, That the line of railroad as it has been surveyed
and laid out on map marked ' AA,' and described as follows:
Commencing at a point in the northwest quarter (N.W.r J) of
section [three] (3), township two (2) north, range fifteen (15)
west, San Bernardino base and meridian, and running thence
in a southeasterly direction to the city of Los Angeles, and
thence in an easterly direction to a point in the northeasterly
quarter (N.E. I) of section twenty-seven (27), township one (1)
south, range nine (9) west, San Bernardino base and meridian,
being map and profile of section No. one, Southern Pacific
Railroad and telegraph line authorized by the twenty-third
section of the Texas Pacific Railroad act, approved March 3d,
1871, be and the same is hereby, adopted as the route of said
railroad between the points named
"(Signed)
J. L. WILLWr, Sectly."

UNITED STATES v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC R'D.

603

Opinion of the Court.

So, only at these late days was the line of definite location
deterniined upon by the company. Of course, therefore, the
map flied April 3, 1871, could not have been a map of that
line, but was, as it states, only of the general route, and there
was then no designation of lands to which the Southern
Pacific Company's title could attach.
On the other hand, the Atlantic and Pacific Company did
file its maps of definite location. This appears from the certificates thereon. In the one covering the line along the lands
in controversy, the chief engineer of the company certifies
that E. N. Robinson was a deputy engineer, and that the
latter, "as shown by his field-notes, did actually survey and
mark upon the ground, or cause to b,3 surveyed and marked
upon the ground, the line or route of the Atlantic and Pacific
Railroad," etc., as delineated upon the map; and that his acts
in the premises were duly approved and accepted on behalf of
the company, by himself as chief engineer. And in the further official certificate of the company it is stated that the
"map shows the line or route of the said Atlantic and Pacific
Railroad in the county, . . . being a part of the line or
route of said railroad, as definitely fixed in compliance with
said acts of Congress," etc. These maps were received and
approved by the Land Department as maps of definite location. It follows that in fact the line of definite location of
the Atlantic and Pacific was established, and maps thereof
filed and approved before any action in that respect was taken
by the Southern Pacific Company. There never was a time,
therefore, at which the grant of the Southern Pacific could be
said to have attached to these lands; and the plausible argument based thereon, made by counsel in behalf of the Southern
,Pacific Companv, falls to the ground.
Again, it is urged that the grant to the Atlantic and Pacific
having been forfeited, there is nothing now in the way of the
Southern Pacific's grant attaching to these lands; that in the
interpretation of rights under land grants, regard has always
been had by this court to the intention of Congress; that it
was the intention of Congress that these lands should pass to
some compan r to aid in the construction of a railroad, either

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

the Atlantic and Pacific or the Southern Pacific; that they
cannot now be applied to aid in the construction of the former
company's road; and that, therefore, to carry into effect the
intent of Congress, they should be applied to aid in the construction of the latter company's line. We think tlis contention
is erroneous, both as to the law and the intent of Congress.
It was held in the case of Kansas Pacflc Railway v. Dunmeyer, 113 U. S. 629, that, where a homestead right had
attached to a tract at the time of the definite location of the
railway company's line, which homestead was afterwards
abandoned, the tract was simply i'estored to the public domain,
and did not pass to the railvay company under its grant; that
the grant only attached to lands which were the subject of
grant at the time; and that the company had no interest in
the question as to what afterwards became of a tract which
was not public land at the time its grant became fixed. On
page 644 the court observed: "The right of the homestead
having attached to the land it was excepted out of the grant as
much as if in a deed it had been excluded from the conveyance
by metes and bounds." The same doctrine was affirmed in
Hastings and Dakota Railroad v. Ikitney, 132 U. S. 357;
Sioux City &c. Land Co. v. Grifey, 143 U. S. 32; Bardon v.
.Northern.Pacic Railroad, 145 U. S. 535.
Neither can it fairly be said that it was the intent of Congress that these lands should pass conditionally to the Southern
Pacific Company. Good faith must be imputed to Congress.
.It cannot be supposed that Congress intended to give to the
'Southern Pacific Company that which it had already given to
the Atlantic and Pacific Company. It knew that it had
granted lands to the Atlantic and Pacific for a road to the
Pacific Ocean, and that that company was then engaged in
construdting its road, and proceeding with as much rapidity as
other Pacific companies had done. Within little over a month
from the date of this grant to the Southern Pacific Company,
and on April 20, 1871, it gave to the Atlantic and Pacific
Company authority to issue bonds secured by a mortgage on
its road, equipment, lands, franchises, privileges, etc. 17 Stat.
19, c. 33. Congress, therefore, was expecting that the Atlantic

UNITED STATES v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC R'D.

605

Opinion of the Court.

and Pacific Company would construct its road, and, with this
expectation, had no thought of giving to the Southern Pacific
Company that which it had already given to the Atlantic and
Pacific Company.
Further, as indicating the intent of Congress, reference may
be had to the first proviso to section 3 of the act of 1866, which,
by the terms of section 18 of that act and the act of 1871,
becomes one of the conditions of the grant to the Southern
Pacific Company. That proviso is: "P'ovided, That if said
route shall be found upon the line of any other railroad route,
to aid in the construction of which lands have been heretofore
granted by the United States, as far as the routes are upon
the same general line, the amount of land heretofore granted
shall be deducted from the amount granted by this act." That
proviso may not be technically and strictly applicable to this
case, in that a road crossing another may perhaps not be said
to be found upon the line of such other road, or to be upon
the same general line, yet the import of this proviso is clear,
to the effect that Congress was not only not intending to give
to one company that which it had already given to another, but
intended that lands previously granted should be definitely
excepted from the later grant.
Not only that, but by section 9 of the original act it was
provided "that if the Atlantic and Pacific make any breach
of the conditions hereof, and allow the same to continue for
upwards of one year, then, in such case, at any time hereafter,
the United States may do any and all acts and things which
may be needful and necessary to insure a speedy completion
of the said road." In other words, the intent of Congress was
that this road to the Pacific should be built; that if there was
any delay on the part of the Atlantic and Pacific Company, it
might itself take all needful and necessary measures to accomplish the building; and to that end of course, use all the lands
it proposed to grant therefor. Can it be supposed that this
purpose of Congress was forgotten, or that its intent was
changed when it made the grant to the Southern Pacific, or
that it had anything in contemplation other than that, after
the completion of the Atlantic and Pacific road, and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

appropriation of the lands along its line to aid in that constructionthe Southern Pacific Company might, if it saw fit to build
a road from Tehachapa Pass to the Texas 4nd Pacific Railroad, obtain the remainder of the lands along that line?
Indeed, the intent of Congress in all railroad land grants, as
has been understood and declared by this court again and
again, is that such grant shall operate at a fixed time, and
shall take only such lands as at that time are public lands, and,
therefore, grantable by Congress, and is never to be taken as
a floating authority to appropriate all tracts within the specifled limits which at any subsequent time may become public
lands. The question is asked, supposing the Atlantic and
Pacific Company had never located its lin6 west of the Colorado River, would not these lands have passed to the Southern Pacific Company under its grant? Very likely that may
be so. The language of the Southern Pacific Company's grant
is broad enough to include all land along its line and if the
grant to the Atlantic and Pacific Company had never taken
effect, it may be that there is nothing which would interfere
with the passage of the title to the Southern Pacific Company.
But that is a matter of' result from the happening of something neither intended nor expected. While it may have been
within the knowledge of Congress as among the possibilities,
that result was not the purpose sought to be accomplished by
this legislation. If any other than the general rule as to land
grants had been intended, it is to be expected that such intention would have been clearly expressed. So when intent is to
be considered, the question is whether Congress intended,
the title having once vested in the Atlantic and Pacific, that
the Southern Pacific Company should stand waiting to take the
lands at some future time, however distant, when the Atlantic
and Pacific Company's title should fail.
Again, there can be no question, under the authorities heretofore cited, that, if the act of forfeiture had not been passed
by Congress, the Atlantic and Pacific could yet construct its
road, and that, constructing it, its title to these lands would
become perfect. No power but that of Congress could interfere with this. right of the Atlantic and Pacific. No one but

UNITED STATES v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC R'D.

607

Dissenting Opinion: Field, Gray, JJ.

the grantor can raise the question of a breach of a condition
subsequent. Congress, by the act of forfeiture of July 6, 1886,
determined what should become of the lands forfeited. It
enacted that they be restored to the public domain. The forfeiture was not for the benefit of the Southern Pacific; it was
not to enlarge its grant as it stood prior to the act of forfeiture. It had given to the Southern Pacific all that it had
agreed to in its original grant; and now, finding that the
Atlantic and Pacific was guilty of a breach of a condition subsequent, it elected to enforce a forfeiture for that breach, and
a forfeiture for its own benefit.
Our conclusions, therefore, are, that a valid and sufficient
map of definite location of its route from the Colorado River
to the Pacific Ocean was filed by the Atlantic and Pacific
Company, and approved by the Secretary of the Interior;
that by such act the title to these lands passed, under the
grant of 1866, to the Atlantic and Pacific Company, and remained held by it subject to a condition subsequent until the
act of forfeiture of 1886; that by that act of forfeiture the
title of the Atlantic and Pacific was retaken by the general
government, and retaken for its own benefit, and not that of
the Southern Pacific.Company; and that the latter company
has no title of any kind to these lands.
The decrees of the Circuit Court must be reversed, and the
cases remanded with instructions to enter decrees for the
ylaintiffor the relief sought.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD, (with whom concurred MR. JUSTiCE
GRAY,) dissenting.

I am not able to agree with the court in its judgment in
these cases or in the reasons offered in its support.
The cases were fully and elaborately considered by the
Circuit and District Judges in the court below. 46 Fed. Rep.
683, 692. Their opinions are not only able and convincing,
but lead to conclusions which seem to me consonant with
justice and fair dealing. To my sense of right, there is
something repugnant in any other conclusion, in view of the

OCTOBER TERTIT, 1892.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, Grty, JJ.

inducements held out by the government and the work done,
and the expenses incurred, by the railroad company.
Congress desired to connect by a railway the States on the
Mississippi with the Pacific Coast, and for that purpose, by
the act of July 27, 1866, created a corporation known as the
Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company, and gave it a grant
of lands to aid in the construction of a railway between
Springfield, in the State of Missouri, and the Pacific Coast.
14 Stat. 292, c. 278. The 18th section authorized the Southern
Pacific Railroad Company, a corporation under the laws of
California, to connect with the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad
at such point near the boundary line of California which it
should deem most suitable for a railroad line to San Francisco,
and in consideration thereof, and to taid in its construction,
gave it grants of lands similar to those which the Atlantic and
Pacific Railroad Company had received and subject to the
same conditions and limitations.
On the 3d of March, 1871, Congress passed an act to incorporate the Texas and Pacific Railroad Company, and to aid in
the construction of its road; and, for the purpose of connecting
that road with the city of San Francisco, it authorized, by its
23d section, the Southern Pacific Railroad Company to construct a line of railroad from a point at or near Tehachapa
Pass, by way of Los Angeles, to the Texas Pacific Railroad at
or near the Colorado River, with the same rights, grants and
privileges, and subject to the same limitations, as those contained in the grant by the act of July 27, 1866, with a proviso
"that this section shall in no way affect or impair the rights,
present or prospective, of the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad
Company, or any other railroad company." On the 3d of
April following, one month only after the passage of this act,
the Southern Pacific Company designated the line of its road
from Tehachapa Pass, by way of Los Angeles to Fort Yuma on
the Colorado River, on a map which it filed on that day in the
office of the Commissioner of the General Land Office. Afterwards the Southern Pacific was amalgamated or consolidated
with other companies, the consolidated company being called
the Southern Pacific Railroad Company. It then proceeded to

UNITED STATES v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC R'D.

609

Dissenting Opinion: Field, Gray, JJ.

build the railroad along the line designated from Tehachapa
Pass, by way of Los Angeles, to the Colorado River, and completed the same within the time required by the act of Congress.
Its several sections were examined from time to time and-reported to the President of the United States, by commissioners
appointed by him for that purpose; and the whole line was
accepted by the President, and patents of the United States
for the greater part of the lands thus earned were issued to
the company. Ever since the completion and acceptance
of the road the company has performed to the satisfaction
of the government all the services, such as carrying the mails
transporting troops and supplies, in all respects as required by
the act of Congress; and the services have been accepted by
the United States.
The Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company subsequently
to this definite location of the Southern Pacific Company, and
nearly a year after the construction of its road had been commenced, and on March 12, 1872, filed in the office of the
Secretary of the Interior-not the office of the Commissioner
of the General Land Office-two maps of portions of the
line of road in the State of California, and some time afterwards filed maps of other portions of its line, but it never
constructed any portion of the road authorized to be constructed by it in the State of California; and for its failure in
that respect, Congress, on July 6, 1886, passed an act declaring a forfeiture of the land in that State. The proposed line
of the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad, which was never built,
crosses the line of the road of the Southern Pacific Company,
which was built as stated.
The present suit is brought to cancel the patents issued to
the Southern Pacific Company, and, wherever there is any
portion for which a patent has not been issued, to annul its
alleged title.
The opinion of the majority of the court proceeds upon the
ground that the grant to the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad
Company, though the road in aid of which it was granted was
never constructed, and the grant was subsequently forfeited
by the United States, operated to divest the government of
VOL. CXLVI-39

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, Gray, JJ.

the fee of such lands so completely that the grant to the
Southern Pacific Company to build its road could in no way
be carried out; that its action, although taken with the
approval of the officers of the government and strictly in
conformity with its grant, gave nothing whatever to that
company, and that the United States are for that reason
authorized to ask for the cancellation of the patents and the
surrender of the lands granted, necessarily carrying with them
the railroad and other works constructed by the company.
And this is prayed in the face of the evident intention of
Congress that the Southern Pacific Company should have
these identical lands, so far as the government had the right
to grant them as its reward in part for building the road.
It is not denied or doubted, as counsel well observed, that
the Southern Pacific Company "promptly, completely, in
good faith and to the satisfaction of every department of the
government having any concern with the matter, constructed
and equipped its road, put it into operation and placed in
possession of the government every facility and advantage
sought by it in making the grants, and has thus fully earned
its entire reward. And yet, in the face of all this, the government, by these suits, seeks to wrest these lands from the
company, not because it wishes to apply them to some purpose of its own to which they had been devoted prior to the
grant, nor because it needs them in order to enable it to fulfil
some prior engagement with other parties, but simply in
order to. restore them to the public domain, where they were
at the time of the grant, in order that it may deal with them
as its own absolute property, and as it pleases." The cases
would thus seem to be destitute of any substantial equity.
The opinion assumes that the grant to the Atlantic and
Pacific Company when its map of definite location was filed,
though that was after the concession to the Southern Pacific
Company, took effect and vested an absolute title to the lands
designated in the Atlantic and Pacifie Company from its date,
which could not be affected by any subsequent events which
would make the concession to the Southern Pacific available.
In support of that view it itos several decisions of the court,

UNITED STATES v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC R'D.

611

Dissenting Opinion: Field, Gray, JJ.

in which it has been held that similar railroad grants were
grants in prwsenti, and operated only upon lands at the time
free from exceptions stated, such as lands to which a preemption or homestead right has attached, or have been reserved for special purposes, and that lands thus excepted or
reserved do not fall under the operation of the grants if subsequently the cause of the original exception or reservation
has ceased, but remain as public or ungranted lands.
Such grants have been treated as grants in prcesenti in
determining controversies between parties as to the date of
their respective titles under the grants, or against conflicting
grants. They are grants in.prcesenti, so as to cut off all intervening claims except such as are expressly named; and if the
work, in aid of which the grants are made, is executed in
accordance with their provisions, the title of the grantees will
take effect as of their date, except as to specially reserved
parcels. We do not disagree with the majority of the court
on this point. It is true, also, that lands excepted or reserved
from such grants at their date are not subsequently brought
under their operation if the cause, or purpose of their exception ceases. They remain ungranted lands. Such was the
case of Bardon v. Northern Pacific Railroad Company, 145
U. S. 535. But it is evident that such exceptions and reservations of one grant do not apply and control a second grant,
unless such second grant is specially stated to be within
them. When the second grant in question in this case was
made, all the rights which the United States had in the lands
described therein passed to the Southern Pacific Company,
subject only to the rights specially reserved of the first
grantee, and released of all restrictions upon their use except
as thus designated. Until something was done under the first
grant towards its execution, it was competent for Congress to
give effect to other grants and to limit the extent of their
subordination.
Neither grants in prwsenti, nor grants with special exceptions or reservations, have ever been held, that I am aware
of, to prohibit a second grant of the same lands subject to
the condition that it shall not affect or impair any rights

OCTOBER TERAT, 1892.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, Gray, JJ.

under the elder grants. There can be no circumstances under
which such second conditional grant may not be made.
Whether it will ever become operative and pass the title to
the lands described will depend upon circumstances which
cannot be stated with certainty in advance. Many events
may arise to defeat or limit the operation of the first grant.
It may be forfeited, or portions of its lands may be surrendered and new legislation, taken in execution of the reserved
power to alter, amend or repeal the act making the grant,
may change the whole condition of the lands.
From these views it would seem that the questions arising
in this case should not be difficult of solution. Before anything was done under the grant to the Atlantic and Pacific
Railroad Company, even to indicate the route of the road it
would construct, authority was issued by the government to
the Southern Pacific Company to build a road north from a
point at or near Tehachapa Pass, by way of Los Angeles, to
the Texas and Pacific Railroad at or near the Colorado River,
with a proviso, however, that the authority thus given should
not in any respect impair. the rights, present or prospective, of
the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company or of any other
railroad. Congress had power to confer such authority and
to make a grant for its execution.. Surely Congress can make
a grant of lands which it owns or claims to own at any time,
if it annex a condition that the grant shall not affect or impair
the rights of a previous grantee. It would, as it seems to me,
be an extravagant and utterly unwarranted assertion to say
that Congress, having made a grant for a railroad to run in
one direction, is thereby prohibited from making another
grant for a railroad to run in a different direction, if a condition is annexed that the second grant shall not affect or impair
the rights of the first grantee. The questions, and the only
questions for consideration in such a case, would be, first,
what are the rights thus reserved to which the second grant
is subordinate, and, second, have they been affected or impaired by the later grant? The previous grant to the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company, made six years before, did
not Itand in the way of Congress making the conditional con-

UNITED STATES v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC R'D.

613

Dissenting Opinion: Field, Gray, JJ.

cession to the Southern Pacific. If unlimited, it would have
affected the extent of the grant to the first company. A limitation upon its operation was placed by the proviso. No line
of railroad had been then defined or marked by the Atlantic
and Pacific Railroad Company. It might, so far as Congress
saw, have selected a different route from the one it did afterwards select. Congress waited six years for that company to
make a selection before it made the concession to the Southern Pacific Company. The company was not bound to wait
indefinitely for the years to elapse before moving in the enterprise it was to undertake, and to further which Congress had
afforded assistance. The condition attached to the concession
was not an exception from the grant of any lands that the
Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company might claim under its
grant without performing its conditions. It merely rendered
the concession to the Southern Pacific Company subordinate
and subject to any rights that the Atlantic and Pacific Company may then have acquired or might thereafter acquire
under its grant, upon the performance of its conditions.
What, then, were those rights, present or prospective, which
were reserved to the Atlantic and Pacific Company? Plainly
they were the right to construct a railroad and telegraph to
the Pacific Coast, from the Colorado River, by the most practicable route, with a right of way two hundred feet in wid.th,
and to use certain lands granted for that purpose to aid in
their constructioA, and, when constructed, the right to operate the road and itse the telegraph line. They were permissive rights, and not compulsory. Have they been affected or
impaired by the concession to the Southern Pacific Company?
In no respect whatever. They were affected and impaired by
the company's failure to perform the conditions annexed to its
grant, and in no other way, until its forfeiture was declared.
It never did anything towards a compliance with its conditions except to file, in detached parts, what it termed a map
of the location of its road six years after the date of the grant
and one year after the Southern Pacific Company had located
its road, under its concession, and commenced its construction.
Its rights, whether present or prospective were never invoked,

OCTOBER TERMr, 1892.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, Gray, JJ.

and, in consequence, nothing was. ever obtained in virtue of
them. The building of another road in another direction by
the Southern Pacific Company under its concession did not,
therefore, affect or impair any rights of the Atlantic and
Pacific, as none were ever claimed or exercised by it. Had
the company performed the conditions of its grant and exercised its rights it would have taken the lands under the grant
against any possible pretension of the Southern Pacific Company; but, having abandoned'all such rights by simply refusing
to do anything, the Southern Pacific Company rightly proceeded with its work and constructed its road. The grant to
it was a full conveyance of all the rights of the United States
free from all restraints except as specially designated, and
the rights then reserved were never subsequently affected or
impaired by the Southern Pacific Company, and they were
lost entirely by the forfeiture of the grant.
The case, in a nutshell, is this: The grant to the Atlantic
and Pacific Railroad Company was indeed prior in point of
time and of right, and the grant to the Southern Pacific Railroad Company was subordinate to the prior grant. But when
the prior grant was forfeited by the failure of the Atlantic
and Pacific Railroad Company to perform its conditions, that
grant fell off, and the underlying grant 'to the Southern
Pacific Railroad Company, all the conditions of which had
been performed, remained in full force and effect.
I consider the principle involved in these cases as one of
great importance, more so than the value of the property,
although that runs into millions of dollars, expended by the
company upon the encouragement of the government. But it
is infinitely more important that it should be established that
the government and its officers are bound by the same principles of justice in their dealings which are held to govern the
conduct of individuals.
In my opinion the judgment of the court below should be
affirmed, and'I am authorized to state that M[R. JUSTICE GRAY
concurs with me in this dissent.

