OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

decree of the court below should be reversed, and that that
court should be directed to enter a decree dismissing the bill
of the State of Illinois and the cross-bill of the. city of Chicago.
I am authorized to state that M. JusTicE GRAY and MR.
JusTicE

BRow- concur in this dissent.

The CHIEF JUSTICE, having been of counsel in the court below,
and MR. JUSTIcE BLATCHFORD, being a stockholder in the Illinois
Central Railroad Company, did not take any part in tie
consideration or decision of these cases.

DERBY v. THOMNPSON.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 40. Argued November 11, 14, 1892.-Decided December 12, 1892.

The article claimed to be protected under the second claim in letters patent
No. 224,923 issued February 24, 1880, to Joseph W. Kenna for a new and
useful improvement in a combined child's chair and carriage, (lid not,
with reference to the state of the art at the time, involve invention in
the opinion, of the majority of the court; but all the judges concur in the
opinion that the claim should receive a narrow construction, and, that, in
this aspect of the case, the defendants' chairs did not infringe.

THIs was a bill in equity for the infringement of letters
patent number 224,923, issued E'ebruary 24, 1880, to Joseph IV.
Kenna, for a new and useful inpovement in a combined child's
chair and carriage.
The invention related to an article of furniture wvhich, by a
simple adjustment of the parts, may be converted from a child's
high chair for use at a table to a child's carriage, and vise
,ersa, as may be desired; and more particularly to the manner
of connecting the chair to its supporting frame, and supporting
it thereon. It consisted practically of an ordinary chair, B,
with four legs, mounted when used as a high chair upon a

DERBY v. THOMPSON.
Statement of the Case.

standard, A, also having four legs to correspond with those of
the chair. The front legs of the chair were pivoted at their

Yig.1.

Fig.2.

lower ends, D, upon the corresponding legs of the standard.
Upon the rear legs of the standard there were pivoted at their

OCTOBER TERI[, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

lower ends the arms of a btil, E, which turned up under the
rear part of the chair, and supported it by'the aid of a catch,
F, fastened to a cross-piece or rod between the two reir legs
of the chair. When used as a carriage, the bail was unfastened from its catch, which allowed the rear of the chair to
fall between the rear legs a of the standard. The front legs
a'of the standard assumed a horizontal position. The chair
then rested upon four. wheels, L, attached to cross-pieces connecting the front and rear legs, and the bail served as a pushhandle for the carriage thus formed. 'By this adjustment,
which is shown in the annexed drawings, [on page 477,J the
chair is converted into a wheel carriage, on which the child
may be pushed by the aid of the bail from place to place.
The patentee says in his specification: "In making these
changes it is not necessary to remove the child from the chair,
for instead of tilting the chair back, as shown in Fig. 2 of the
drawings, it may be held in an upright position, and the frame
A tilted forward on its front standard, until it assumes the
position shown in Fig. -3of the drawings, and in changing from
the latter position to a chair, the supporting frame may be
tilted upward and backward into the position shown in Fig. 2
of the drawings, while at the same time the chair is held in an
upright position by the attendante"
The claim relied upon in this suit was the second, which was
as follows: "2. The frame A, in combination with the bail E,
chair-frame B, pivoted at its lower front corners to the frame
A, and the yielding rest or support F, substantially as described." The case was defended upon the ground of want of
novelty, and also of non-infringement. The court ordered a
final decree for the plaintiff, 26 Fed. Rep. 299, and 32 Fed. Rep.
830, and the defendant was allowed an appeal to this court.
_2J&. Arthur v. Briesen for appellants.
.Mr. J. E Jaynadier for appellees.
IRn. JUSTIcE

BRoWS, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.

DERBY v. THOMPSON.
Opinion of the Court.

The first assignment of error turns -upon the validity of the
second claim of the patent in question, which was for "the
frame A, in combination with the bail E, chair-frame B, pivoted
at its lower front corners to the frame A, and the yielding rest
or support F, substantially as described." This claim is practically, for the combination of four elements:
1. A low chair having the usual frame of four legs;
2. A supplemental frame placed under the chair to raise it,
and arranged to fold out of the way when the low chair is
used;
3. A bail forming a part of the rear legs of the supplemental frame; and
4. A catch or fastening device which keeps this bail in place
when the chair is used as a high chair.
If Mr. Kenna had been the first to invent a high chair, which,
by a simple mechanical arrangement, could be converted into
a rolling chair or carriage, by the aid of a bail, which served
alternately for the support of the high chair and as a pushhandle for the rolling chair, his patent would doubtless be
entitled to a liberal construction. Such a device is at once
ingenious, useful, compact and convenient. He was not, however, the first in this field of invention. The patent to Caulier
of April 23, 1878, exhibits a chair, the seat of which was hinged
to the upper end of four legs, corresponding to the frame A of
the plaintiff's patent, and provided with rollers secured to the
lower part of the legs or stretchers between them, in combination with. rollers secured beneath the foot-rest of the chair.
The rear legs were secured to the seat by spring-bolts immediately beneath the seat, which bolts, when withdrawn, peri1itted the front legs to turn, and assume a partially horizontal
position, the chair falling and resting in front on casters or
wheels attached to the underside of the step, and in the rear,
upon two corresponding wheels journalled in the bottom of the
four legs. There was also a swinging push-handle pivoted to
the rear legs, but performing no function except when the
dev ice was used as a rolling chair. This chair contained a
frame-corresponding to the frame A of the -plaintiff's patent,
in c6mbinatien with a push-hatndle or bail, and a chair-seat

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

pivoted in front to the supplemental frame; but it did not
contain a supporting chair frame of four legs, nor the yielding
rest or support F. While evidently a somewhat crude device,
it did contain two, if not three, of the four elements of the
plaintiff's patent though combined in a different manner.
The exhibit Pearl chair, which, we agree with the court
below, antedates the Kenna invention, also consisted of a chairseat hinged to the front legs of a frame, corresponding to the
Kenna fraie A, immediately beneath the seat, while to the
rear legs of this frame was pivoted a bail, which served to support the rear of the chair-seat when used as a high chair, and
as a push-handle when used as a rolling chair.- The wheels
were pivoted, as in the Caulier chair, to the underside of the
step and to the lower ends of the front legs of the frame A.
There whs also a catch attached to the rear of the chair seat
into which the bail fitted when turned up for use in supporting the high chair. There are found in this chair all the elements of the Kenna chair, except that the chair is pivoted or
hinged to the frame immediately beneath the seat, and hence
both this and the Caulier chair are less compact, convenient
and sightly than the Kenna device. When used as a rolling
chair, the chair seat was thrust forward in front of the legs,
which projected in the rear and made the carriage much less
convenient to handle.
I In the Patten patent of September 3, 1878, however, the
hinges, by means of which the legs of the supplemental frame
were turned under, were placed some distance below the seat,
which had the effect, when used as a rolling chair, of throwing the chair seat farther backward and nearer to the bail.
This peculiarity is also found in the Chichester patent of July
8, 1879, which, while differing widely from the Kenna patent
in othei respects, resembles it in the particular of having a
complete chair instead of a mere chair seat.
Plaintiff is evidently not entitled to claim the combination
of the chair frame pivoted to the supplemental frame A, and
the bail, without the yielding support or rest, since the latter
is not only incorporated in his claim, but a claim which he
originally made for "the supporting frame A, in combination

DERBY v. THOMPSON.
Opinion of the Court.

with the chair frame hinged thereto at its lower front corners,
and the movable support E, substantially as described," was
rejected by the Patent Office upon reference to the Caulier
patent, and Kenna acquiesced in such rejection. It is, then,
only in connection with the yielding rest or support F that he
could possibly claim the combination of the other three elements: But this rest or support is also found in connection
with a. chair seat, a standard' of four legs, and a bail in the
Pearl chair, performing the same function' of holding the bail
in position, to support the rear of the chair seat when not in
use as a rolling chair, but attached directly to the chair seat,
instead of to a rod connecting the two rear legs of the chair.
Although the Pearl chair is referred to in one of the letters of
the department, (December 12, 1879,) it was only as exhibited
in the catalogue of Heywood Brothers, the manufacturers,
wherein the catch for the support of the bail was not represented; but, appearing as it does in the Pearl chair put in
evidence, it is difficult to see why this chair does not contain
practically all the elements of the Kenna claim. It is true
there is a difference in the manner 'in which the combination
is put together; but the part wherein they differ most widely,
namely, the pivoting of the chair frame at its lower front corners to the front legs of the supplemental frame, is found both
in the Patten and prior Chichester patents. What, then, has
Mr. Kenna done? He has taken the Patten or Chichester
chairs bodily, pivoted as they are at the lower front corners to
the supplemental frame, and has applied to them the bail and
catch of the Pearl chair, and has thereby made a chair more
compact than the Pearl, but not more so than the Patten and
Chichester chairs, but perhaps more convenient in other -re-

spects. While the question is not altogether free from doult,
the majority of the court are not disposed to accord to the
changes made by Kenna the merit of invention. Though he
may not in fact have known of these three chairs, but may
have supposed that he was inventing something valuable, we
are boundf in passing upon his device, to assume that b~e had
them all before him, and with that knowledge it seems to us
that it required nothing more than the skill of an ordinary
VOL. cxLvI-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

mechanic to adopt the most valuable features of each in the
construction. of a new chair. Indeed, the result is rather an
aggregation of old elements than the production of a new
device. As a high chair the Kenna is not superior to the Pearl
chair, and as a rolling chair it is no more compact and apparently no more convenient than the Patten and Chichester
chairs. It is pertinent to remark in this connection, as bearing
upon the merits of this patent, that the invention described in
it never seems to have gone into use, perhaps owing to the fact
that the chair was encumbered by a slotted bar G, which was
necessary, when used as a high chair, to prevent it from tilting
forward on its pivots, and throwing the child out. Plaintiff's
chair as constructed and put upon the market not only dispenses with the catch F, but locates the wheels upon the front
legs of the supplemental frame, much as in the Caulier and
Pearl chairs. As Kenna was confessedly not the inventor of
the three principal elements of his chair, viz., the chair frame,
the frame A, and the bail, either separately or in combination,
and as the fourth element, which is claimed to give life to his
patent, viz., the catch F, has either been abandoned altogether,
or practically abandoned by substituting for it a bail having
an elasticity sufficient to hold it in place without a catch, we
think the introduction of this catch into the prior combination
is insufficient to support the patent.
But, even conceding that the Kenna device does involve a
patentable novelty, we are all of the opinion that his claim
should receive a narrow construction, and that, in this aspect
of the case, neither of the defendant's chairs can be said to
infringe. In these devices the frame A is not pivoted to the
chair frame, but is lHnged to it in such a manner that the chair
cannot tip forward, and hence the slotted bars (which, though
not clai'med, are an essential feature of the Kenna device) are
unnecessary. Neither of the exhibits put in evidence as the
defendant's chair has the yielding Test, or support F. It is
true'that, by-a slight elasticity in the bail, it is made to catch
under the frame of the chair seat in such manner as, to obviate
the necessity of a rest or support. But the fact that the defendants have been able, by a skilful contrivance, to dispense with

COMPANIA BILBAITNA v. SPA ISH-AMERICAN &c. CO. 483
Syllabus.

one of the elements of the Kenna claim does not make the
devise an infringement. In this case the Pearl chair possessed
the same feature of elasticity in the bail, which is claimed to
be the mechanical equivalent of the yielding rest or support.
In the other exhibit a button is used to hold the bail under
the frame of the seat; but as this button is not a "yielding
rest or support," or a "spring catch," the charge of infringement as to this exhibit is not sustained.
The decree of the court below is, therefore,
Reversed, and the ease remanded, with directions to dismiss
the bill.

COMPANIA BILBAINA DE NAVEGACION, DE
BILBAO v. SPANISH-AMERICAN LIGHT AND
POWER COMPANY.
APPE&L FRO31 THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 66. Argued December 1, 2,1892. -Decided December 12, 1892.
Clauses in a charter-party of a vessel construed.
The owner of the vessel held not to be entitled to recover from the charterer any part of the expense of fitting up the tanks in the vessel to
carry petroleum in bulk.
The owner could not affirm the charter-party for one purpose and repudiate
it for another.
The charter-party never became a binding contract.
If there was any part of it in regard to which the minds of the parties did
not meet, the entire instrument was a nullity, as to all its clauses.
Nor did the delivery of the vessel to the charterer, and her acceptance by
him, constitute a hiring of her under the charter-party, as it would stand
with certain disputed clauses omitted.
The delivery of the vessel was the adoption by the owner of tlfe existing
charter-party.
The owner could not collect rent for the time he was fitting up the tanks,
and the charterer was liable to pay rent for the use of the vessel only
while she was in his service.

THE case is stated in the opinion,

