IN

RE CROSS, Petitioner.
Statement of the Case.

repealed ? It is the act of incorporation.

It is this organic

law on which the corporate existence of the company depends
which may be repealed, so that it shall cease to be a law; or
the legislature may adopt the milder course of amending the
law in matters which need amendment, or altering it when
it needs substantial change. All this may be done at the
pleasure of the legislature. That body need give no reason
for its action in the matter. The validity of such action does
not depend on the necessity for it, or on the soundness of the
reasons which prompted it." The words "at the pleasure of
the legislature" are not in Ghe clauses of the constitution of
Ohio, or in the statutes to which we have referred. But the
general reservation of the power to alter, revoke or repeal a
grant of special privileges necessarily implies that the power
may be exerted at the pleasure of the legislature.
We perceive no error in the record in respect to the Federal
question involved, and the judgment must be
A ftirmed.

In

Pe CROSS,

Petitioner.

ORIGINA L.
No. 10 Original. Submitted November 29, 1892. -Decided

December 5, 1892.

The provision in section 845 of the Revised Statutes of the District of
Columbia that when the judgment in a criminal case is death or confinement in the penitentiary the court shall, on application of the party
condemned, to enable him to apply for a writ of error, "postpone the
final execution thereof" etc., relates only to the right of the accused to
a postponement of the day of executing his sentence, in case he applies
for it in order to have a review of an alleged error; and, with the exception of this restriction, the power of the court was left as it had been
at common law.

THIs was a petition for a writ of habeas corpus. The application was made by William Douglass Cross, a person indicted
and convicted of murder in the District of Columbia. Some

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

previous movements in this case had been before the court in
Cross v. United States,- 145 -U. S. 571, and Cross v. Burke,
ante, 82. The present application alleged that the petitioner
was "unlawfully deprived of his liberty and unlawfully imprisoned, confined and detained in the United States jail in
the county of Washington, and District of Columbia." The
prayer was that he be discharged and set at liberty.
The allegations respecting the illegality of the imprisonment
were as follows:
"1. On the 7th day of July, 1891, at a special term of the
supreme court of the District of Columbia, holding a court
for criminal business, this petitioner was, by a verdict of a
jury, convicted of murder.
"2. That thereafter he filed a motion for a new trial, which
was heard and overruled, and on, to wit, the 30th day of July,
1891, judgment and sentence were pronounqed against him by
the justice presiding, holding said special term for criminal
business, in the following words:
"' It is considered that for his said offence the defendant be
taken by the warden aforesaid to the jail from whence he
came, and there to be kept in close confinement, and that upon
Friday, the 22cd day of January, in the year of our Lord one
thousand eight hundred and ninety-two, he be taken to the
place prepared for his execution, within the walls of the said
jail, and that there, between the hours of eight o'clock antemeridian and twelve o'clock meridian of the same day, he be
hanged .by the neck -until he be dead, and may God have
mercy upon his oul.'
"3. Petitioner further says, as he is informed by his counsel
and verily believes, that an appeal was taken from said special
term to the general term of the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia, and on January 12, 1882, said Supreme Court
in general term affirmed the judgment of the special term in
the following words:
"'Because it appears to the court here that there is no error
'in the record and proceedings, or in the judgment of the special term in this cause, it. is considered by the court here that
the said jadgment e, and the same hereby is, affirmed.'

IN RE CROSS, Petitioner.
Statement of the Case.

"4. Petitioner further states, as he is informed by his counsel and verily believes, that a death warrant was, on the 12th
day of January, 1892, issued for his execution to take place on
the 22d day of January, 1892, and that no return of said
warrant has ever been made.
"5. Petitioner further says that, as he is informed by his
counsel and verily believes, while he was in jail awaiting execution, the chief justice of the supreme court of the District
of Columbia allowed a writ of error to the Supreme Court of
the United States.
"6. Petitioner further states, as he is informed by his
counsel and verily believes, that on 21st day of January, 1892,
the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia in general
term, in the absence of the petitioner, postponed the day of
his execution as fixed by the presiding justice. in the special
term, and in his absence resentenced him to be hanged on Friday, the 10th day of June, 1892, between the same hours
specified in the said judgment of the said special term.
"7. Petitioner further says, as he is informed by his counsel and verily believes, that on the 16th day of May, 1892, the
Supreme Court of the United States refused to entertain the
writ of error and dismissed the same, holding that the act of
February 6, 1889, did not authorize the issue of the writ, as
will more fully appear on reference to the opinion of said
court, a copy of which is hereunto ann6xed marked "A," and
forms a'part of this petition.
"8. Petitioner further says, as he is informed by his counsel and verily believes, that from the day upon which sentence
was pronounced by the presiding justice, to wit, July 30, 1891,
until the day fixed for his execution, to wit, January 22,
1892, the warden of the United States jail held and detained
him as a prisoner under and by virtue of the said sentence.
" 9. Petitioner further says, as he is informed by his counsel
and verily believes, that after the day fixed for his execution,
to wit, January 22, 1892, said warden has claimed the right to
hold and detain this petitioner as a prisoner under and by virtue
of an order of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, in general term, postponifig his execution and resenVOL. cxLvI-18

OCTOBER TERMiN,

1892.

Statement of the Case.

tencing him to be hanged June 10, 1892, in the following
words:.
"'That the execution of the sentence of death pronounced
against the defendant by the special term of this court on the
thirtieth day of July, in the year of our Lord one thousand
eight hundred and ninety-one, to take place on the twentysecond day of January, 1892, be, and the same is hereby, lpostponed until 'the tenth day of June, 1892, between the same
hours specified in the said judgment of the said special term.'
"10. Your petitioner further avers, as he is informed by
his counsel and verily believes, that section 1040, :Revised
Statutes UI.S., under which the court in general term postponed the execution of the sentence, provides for cases carried
to the Supreme Court of the United States, and directs what
shall be done in such cases by the court rendering the judgment. It is provided that in case of affirmance the court
rendering the judgment shall appoint a day for execution.
All this is in cases which are carried to the Supreme Court in
pursuance of la-w. The case of your petitioner has been decided not to have been so carried to the Supreme Court. The
result, in contemplation of law, is that it never was in that
court. Consequently the case not being such as is contemplated by said section 1040, the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia was without authority to change the date of
execution. As the date lawfully fixed, to wit, January 22,
1892, has passed, and a new date was not lawfully fixed, and
no other date can be fixed, your petitioner is advised that he
is detained and imprisoned without authority of law.
"11. Petitioner further says, as he is informed by -his counsel and verily believes, that since the dismissal of the writ of
error by the Supreme Court of the United States on the 16th
day of May, 1892, and the opinion of that court declaring
that the allowance of said writ of error was ultra vires, without jurisdiction and null and void; and, as a necessary consequence, 'that the order of the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia: in general term postponing the execution of this
petitioner and resentencing him to be hanged at a later day
was also ultra 'Vires, without, jurisdiction, and null and void;

IN

RE CROSS, Petitioner.
Argument for Petitioner.

that said warden has, since said decision, unlawfully detained
and held this petitioner as a prisoner without any lawful warrant, and still so unlawfully detains and holds him.
"12. Petitioner further says, as he is informed by his counsel and verily believes, that on the 7th day of June, 1892, the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, in special term
and without any authority of law, or power or jurisdiction
therein, postponed the execution of this petitioner to the 11th
day of November, 1892, between the same hours heretofore
specified.
"13. Petitioner further says, as he is informed by his counsel and verily believes, that on the 9th day of November, 1892,
the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, in special term
and without any authority of law, or power or jurisdiction
therein, again postponed the execution of this petitioner to
the 2d day of December, 1892, between the hours heretofore
specified.
"14. Petitioner further says, as he is informed by his counsel and verily believes, that there was no power, jurisdiction
or authority vested in any court to resentence this petitioner,
to postpone said sentence, or to fix another day for his execution beyond the 30th day of January, 1892, and that any and
all postponement of the execution of the petitioner after the
said 30th day of January, 1892, was null and void, and in
violation of section 815 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States relating to the District of Columbia, which said section
governs the time of execution within the District of Columbia
in all cases of appeal.
"15. Petitioner further says, as he is informed by his counsel and verily believes, that the authority of the warden of the
United States jail to detain him as a prisoner expired January
22, 1892, and thal since that day said warden has unlawfully
kept and detained this petitioner as a prisoner without due
process of law, and in violation of the Constitution of the
United States."
-fY'. Charles Alaurice &Iitkand .J[r.Joseph Shillington for
petitioner.

OCTOBER TERAK, 1892.
Argument for Petitioner.

The petitioner, through his counsel, desires to submit to this
honorable court the following points and decisions as to the
rights, the power, and the authority of this court to issue these
writs of habeas coryus and certiorari.
In E parte Lange, 18 Wall. 163, 166, Mr. Justice Miller, in
delivering the opinion of the court as to its power to direct the
writ of habeas corpus to issue, accompanied also by a-writ of
certiorari, said:,"The authority of this court in such case,
under the Constitution of the United States, and the fourteenth
section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, 1 Stat. 73, to issue this
writ and examine the proceedings in the inferior court, so
far as may be necessary to ascertain whether that court has
exceeded its authority, is no longer open to question," citing
United States v. Hamilton, 3 Dali. 17; .& _parte Burford, 3
Cranch, 448; Ex parte Borllman, 1 Cranch, 75; Ex parte
Watkins, 3 Pet. 193; Exparte .Metzger, 5 How. 176; Ex parte
Kaine, 14 How. 103; Ex jarte TVells, 18 How. 307; Ex
.parteMAilligan, 4 Wall. 2; Ex parte JfCardle,6 Wall. 318;
Ex parte Yerger, 8 Wall. 85.
In Ex parte F'irginia,100 U. S. 339, 343, Mr. Justice Strong,
in delivering the opiffion of the court, said: "While, therefore,
it is true that a writ of habeas coepus cannot generally be made
to subserve the purposes of a writ of error, yet when a prisoner
is held without any lawful authority, and by an order beyond
the jurisdiction of an-inferior Federal Court to make, this court
-will, in favor of liberty, grant the writ, not to review the whole
case, but to examine the authority of the court below to act
at all." And in that case, as in many others cited, the case of
Ex parte lange was referred to and approved.
In the following cases likewise, the opinioh of the court in
The Lange Case was approved and the writs of habeas copio
and certiorari were allowed to issue. Ex pqrte Rowland, 104
U. S. 604; .Roberts v. Reilly, 116 U. S. 80, 85; Exparte Snow,
120 U. S. 274; Ex parte Bain, 121 U. S. 1; Ev 1parte Ayers,
123 U. S. 443, 486.
Counsel for petitioner further say that the order of the
general term of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, made in this case postponing the execution of the sentence

IN RE CROSS, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

of petitioner to June 10, 1892, was contrary to the provisions
of section 845, Rev. Stat. of the District of Columbia, and was
null and void, and that all subsequent orders made by such
Court subsequent thereto are likewise null and void, and counsel thereupon ask that such writ of habeas corpus may issue
and that it may be accompanied by-a writ of certiorari in
order that the illegal action of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia may be clearly shown to your honorable court.
No one opposing.
Mi .

CHIEF JUSTICE

FULLER delivered the opinion of the

court.

This is a petition for writs of habeas corpus and certiorari.
The matters set up will be found sufficiently reported in Cross
v. Burke, ante, 82, and Cross v. United States, 145 U. S. 571.
The application to us is in effect the same as that made to the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, whose judgment
denying the writ of habeas corpus was brought to this court
by appeal, upon the hearirg of which the merits were fully
argued, although 'we were obliged to decline jurisdiction.
Petitioner contends that the postponement of the execution of
the sentence of death pronounced against him, by virtue of an
order of the Supreme Court of the District in general term on,
January 21, 1892, and subsequent postponements -bythat court
in special term, were without authority of law and in violation
of section 84:5 of the Revised Statutes of the District, and that,
therefore, he is unlawfully kept and detained without due
process of law and in violation of the Constitution of the
United States.
Conceding that the time of execution is not part of the sentence of death unless mace so by statute, it is insisted that
in the District the time has been made a part of the sentence
by section 845, which provides that when the judgment., is
death or confinement in the penitentiary the court shall on the
application of the party condemned, to enable him to apply
for a writ of error, "postpone the final execution thereof to a
reasonable time-beyond the next term of the court, not exceed,
ing in any case thirty days after the end of such term."

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

The argument is that the time fixed by such a postponement
is to be regarded as a time fixed by statute, and that the
power of the court to set a day for execution is thereby
exhausted.
The Supreme Court of the District, upon the prior application, held that this provision related simply to the right of the
accused to a postponement of the day of executing his sdntence
in case he should apply for it in order to have a review of an
alleged error, and that with the exception of this restriction in
the matter of fixing a day for execution, the power of the
court was not made the subject of legislation, but was left as
it had been at common law.
We concur with the views expressed by that court, and in
the conclusion reached, that if the time for execution had
passed in any case, the court could make a new order.
Unquestionably, Congress did not intend that the execution
of a sentence should not be carried out, if judgment were
affirmed on writ of error, except where the appellate court
was able to announce a result within the time allowed for the
application for the writ to be made. The postponements were
rendered necessary by reason of delays occasioned by the acts
of the condemned in his own interest, and the position that he
thereby became entitled to be set at large cannot be sustained.
fMcElvaine v. Brush, 142 U. S. 155, 1,59; People v. Br'tsh,
128 N. Y. 529, 536.
It may be admitted that section 1040 of the Revised Statutes applies only to cases which can be brought to this court;
but, apart from the fact that, as pointed out in C'oss v. Uno ied
States, ibi supra, the Supreme Court of the District, whether
sUiling in general or in special term, is still the Supreme Court,
it is unnecessary to consider the validity of the postponements,
since section 845 of the Revised Statutes of the District has
not the effect contended for. Without reference to the state
of case when a statute fixes or limits the time, the sentence
of death remained in force, and was sufficient authority for
holding the convict in confinement after the day fixed had
passed, when it became the duty of the court to assign, if there
had been no other disposition of the case, a new time for exe-

WILMINGTON & WELDON RA.ILROAD v. ALSBROOK. 279.
Syllabus.

cution. Rex v. Harris,1 Ld. Raym. 482; Rex v. Rogers, 3
Burrow, 1809, 1812; Rex v. Wyatt, Russ. & Ry. 230; _Exparte
foward, 17 N. H. 545; State -. Kitchens, 2 Hill (S. C.) 612;
Bland v. State, 2 Carter (2 Indiana), 608; _Lowenberg v. People,
27 N. Y. 336; State v. Oscar, 13 La. Ann. 297; State v. Cardwell, 95 N. Car. 643; E'xparte Nixon, 2 S. Car. 4.
The applicationfor the writs must be denied.

WILMINGTON AND WELDON RAILROAD

COM-

PAINY 'v. ALSBROOK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA.
lNo. 1074. Argued November 17, 1892.- Decided Ddcember 5, 1892.
The general rule that a valid grant to a corporation, by a statute of a State,
of the right of exemption from state taxation, given without reservation.
of the right of appeal, is a contract between the State and the corporation, protected by the Constitution of the United States against state
legislative impairment, is not qualified by Henderson Bridge Co. v. Henderson City, 141 U. S. 679; nor by St. Paul, Minneapolis &c. Railway v.
Todd County, 142 U. S. 282.
The surrender of the power of taxation by a State cannot be left to inference or conceded in the presence of doubt., and when the language used
admits of reasonable contention, the conclusion is inevitable in fhror of
the reservation of the power.
The exemption from taxation conferred upon the Wilmington & Raleigh
Railroad Company by the act of January 3, 1834, incorporating it, was
not conferred by that act upon the branch roads which the company was
thereby authorized to construct.
IExemption from taxation may or may not be a "privilege" within the sense
in which that word is used in a statute; and in the act of North Carolina
referred to, the word " privileges" does not.include such exemption.
The portion of the Wilmington and Weldon Railroad which lies between
Halifax and Weldon, having been constructed by the Halifax & Weldon
'Railroad Company, and not under the charter of the Wilmington &
Raleigh Railroad Company, is not exempt from state taxation.
The proceedings in Wilminqton Railroadv. Reid,. 13 Wall. 264, and in the
same case in the state courts of North Carolina, do not operate as an
estoppel so far as the road from Halifax to Weldon is concerned, nor as
controlling authority in the premises.

