BELLAIRE v. BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD.

117

Opinion of the Court.

BELLAIRE v. BALTIMORE AND OHIO RAILROAD
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 38. Submitted November 4, 1892. -pecided November 14, 1892.

The petition of a city in a state court, against the lessor and the lessee of
a parcel of land, to condemn it for the purpose of extending a street,cannot be removed into the Circuit Court of the United States upon the
ground of a separable controversy between the lessee and the plaintiff.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. J A. Gallaher for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Jo/n . Cowen, Air. John HT Collins and Xr. iugh L.
Bond, J'., for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.
The original petition was filed May 5, 1887, in the court of
common pleas for the county of Belmont and State of Ohio,
under sections 2233-2238 of the Revised Statutes of the State,
by the city of Bellaire, a municipal corporation of that State,
against the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company, a corporation of Maryland, and the Central Ohio Railroad Company,
a corporation of Ohio, to condemn and appropriate, for the
purpose of opening and extending a street across the railroad
tracks of the defendants, a strip of land about sixty feet wide
and one hundred and sixty feet long, of which, the petition
alleged, "said defendants claim to, be the owners, legal and
equitable," "but as to the proportionate interest, of each of
said defendants this plaintiff is not advised." Notice of the
petition was issued to and served upon both defendants withia
the State of Ohio.

OCTOBER TERI,

1892.

Opinion of the Court.

After the return day, and before trial, the case was removed
into the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern
District of Ohio by the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company, which alleged that this defendant was in possession of
the land in question under a lease from its codefendant, and
that there was a controversy wholly between the plaintiff and
this defendant and which could be fully determined as between them; and further alleged, on the affidavit of its agent,
that from prejudice and local influence it would not be able
to obtain justice in the courts of the State. The city of Bellaire moved to remand the case to the state court.
On. July 5, 1887, the Circuit Court of the United States, as
appears by its decision and order entered of record, overruled
the motion to remand, upon this ground: "The Baltimore
and Ohio Railroad Company has in this case a separate controversy, which is wholly between it and the city of Bellaire
and which can be fully determined as between them. This is
the question of the value of the leasehold interest of the
Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company in the land which the
city seeks to appropriate. This interest is wholly apart from
the interest of the Central Ohio Railroad Company in the fee,
and entitles the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company to a
separate verdict."
The case was afterwards tried by a jury, and a verdict returned upon which judgment was renderecinuir the Baltimore
and Ohio Railroad Company. The city of Bellaire sued out
this writ of error, assigning errors in the denial of the motion
to remand, and in sundry rulings and instructions at the trial.
Under the act of Congress in force at the time of the removal of this case and of the refusal to remand it, prejudice
and local influence which would prevent the party removing
it from obtaining justice in the state court must be yroved to
the satisfaction of the Circuit Court of the United States, if its
jurisdiction is to be supported on that ground. Act of March
3, 1887, c. 373, ยง 2, 24 Stat. 552; Penn&ylvania Co., -Petitioner,
137 U. S. 461, 457 ; Fisk v. Henarie, 142 U. S. 459, 468..
In the case at bar the question of prejudice and local inflaeiice appears not to have been insisted on or considered in the

BELLAIRE v. BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD.

119

Opinion of the Court.

Circuit Court. But that court refused to remand the case,
solely because in its opinion there was a separable controversy
between the petitioning defendant and the original plaintiff.
In this the Circuit Court erred. The object of the suit was
to condemn and appropriate to the public use a single lot of
]and, and not (as in Union PaciAo Railway v. ansas, 115
U. S.h2 , 22, cited by the defendant) several lots of land, each
owned by a different person. The cause of action alleged,
and consequently the subject-matter' of the controversy, was
whether the whole lot should be condemned; and that controversy was not the less a single and entire one, because the two
defendants owned distinct interests in the land, and might be
entitled to separate awards of damages. Kohl v. U ited
States, 91 U. S. 367, 377, 378. The ascertaining of those interests, and the assessment of those damages, were but incidents
to the principal controversy, and did not make that controversy divisible, so that the right of either defendant could be
fully determined by itself, apart from the right of the other
defendant, and from the main issue between both defendants
on the one side and the plaintiff on the other. Fidelity.Ins.
Co. v. IHuntington, 117 U. S. 280; Graves v. Corbin, 132 U. S.
571, 588; Torrence v. Shedd, 14 U. S. 527, and other cases
there cited.
The judgment of the Circuit Court, therefore, must be
reversed for want of jurisdiction, with costs against the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company, and with directions to
award costs against it in that court, and to remand the case to
the state court.
Judgment reversed accordingly.

