CAMERON v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

the effect that the whole method describe. by hin of making
belting-leather out of green hides might be patentable, thus
indicating the extent of the monopoly intended to be granted.
As the defendants in the present case do not use theosweating process,* but use the liming process, it follows, under the
proper construction of the claim of the patent, that they do
Decree aftimed.
not infringe.

CAMERON v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF ARIZONA.
No. 42.

Argued November 14,15,1892. -Decided

December 19,1892.

The writ of error in this case is dismissed because it does not appear that
the jurisdictional amount is involved.

THIS was a proceeding by the United States to compel the
defendant to abate a wire fence, by which he was alleged to
have inclosed a large tract of public lands, belonging to the
United States, and subject to entry as agricultural lands, in
violation'of the act of February 25, 1885, 23 Stat. 321, c. 149,
to prevent the unlawful occupancy of public lands. Thew first
section of the act reads as follows: "All inclosures of- any
public lands in any State or Territory of the United States,
heretofore or to be hereafter made, erected or con'structed by
any person, . . . to any of which land included within
the inclosure the person . . . making or controlling
the inclosure had no claim or color of title made or acquired
in good faith, or an asserted right thereto by or under claim,
made in good faith, with a view to entry thereof at the proper
land office under the general laws of the United States at the
time any such inclosure was or shall be made, are hereby declared to- be unlawful, and the maintenance, 'erection, construction or control of any such inclosure is hereby forbidden
and prohibited; and the assertion of a right to the exclusive,
use or occupancy of any part of the public lands of the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

States in any State or any of the Territories of the United
States, without'claim, color of title or asserted right as above
specifi'd as to inclosure, is likewise declared unlawful, and
hereby prohibited."
The answer denied in general terms that the defendant had
inclosed any of the public lands without any title or claim or
color of title, acquired in good faith thereto, or without having made application to acquire the title thereto, etc. The
answer was subsequently amended by setting up a Mexican
grant of the lands in question, and an application then pending before Congress for the confirmation of such grant. Upon
the trial, the court found the issue in favor of the United
States, and decreed that the inclosure was of public land, and
was, therefore, unlawful, and rendered a special judgment in
the terms. of the act., that the fence be removed by the defendant within five" days from date, and if defendant fail to
remove said fence, that the same be destroyed by the United
States marshal, etc.
Defendant thereupon appealed to the Supreme Court of the
Territory, by which the judgment 'was affirmed. Defendant
was then allowed an appeal to this court.
rTh.Rochester _Ford and Mr. James C. Carter for appel-

lant.
31>. Solicitor Generalfor appellee.

Mr.William ff. Barn es

filed a brief for same.
MR. TusTioE Biowx delivered the opinion of the court.

By the act of M arch 3, 1885, 23 Stat. 443, c. 355, "no appeal or writ of error shall hereafter be allowed from ahy judgment or decree in any suit at law or in equity

.

.

.

in

the Supreme Court of any of the Territories of the United,
States, unless the matter in dispute, exclusive of costs, shall exceed the sum of five thousand dollars." The proceeding in this
case was a special one to compel the abatement and destruction of a wire fence, with which the defendant was alleged to

CAMERON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

enclose 800 acres of the public lands of the United States,
without title or claim or color of title thereto, acquired in
good faith. Defendant's answer was a general denial of the
fact, and in an amended answer he set forth the title claimed
by him. The question at issue between the parties, then-, was
whether the defendant had color of title to the lands in question, acquired in good faith. Defendant justified under a
Mexican grant of "cuatro sitios de tierra para cria de ganado
mayor," (literally, four places or parcels of land for the raising of larger cattle,) and the case turned largely upon the
question whether, under the laws, usages and customs of the
country and the local construction given to these words, a
grant of four square leagues or four leagues square was intended. The court found for the United States, and held that
the defendant had no colorable title to the four leagues square
which he had fenced.
We are of the opinion that this case must be dismissed for
want of jurisdiction by this court. The only evidence that it
involves the requisite jurisdictional amount consists of three
affidavits of persons who swear they are acquainted with the
property in dispute, and that the value of said property is
more than $5000; and the finding of the Chief Justice in his
allowance of an appeal, that the property in controversy in
this action exceeds in value this sum. This evidently reiers to
the value of the land inclosed by the fence in question. Itis
not, however, the value of the property in dispute in this case
which is involved, but the value of the color of title to this
property, which is hardly capable of pecuniary estimation, and
if it were, there is no evidence of such value in this case. Had
the defendant succeeded in the action he would not have established a title to the property, but a color of title to it, and the
adjudication would have been of no value to him, except so
far as to permit the fence to stand. He could not have made
it the basis of an action of ejectment or other proceeding to
test his actual title to the premises in question. If the proceeding be considered as one involving the value of the fence
only, it is also sufficient to say there is no evidence of such
value.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Syllabus.

Nor can our, jurisdiction be sustained under the second section of the act of March 3, 1885, providing that the limit of
85000 shall not apply to any case "in which is drawn in
question the validity of a . . . statute of or an authority
exercised under the United States;" since this refers to an
authority exercised or claimed in favor of one of the parties to
the cause, the validity of which was put in issue on the trial
of the case, and not to the validity of an authority exercised
by the United States in removing the fence pursuant to the
judgment of the court. If the latter were the true construction, then every case in which the court issued an injunction or
an execution might be said to involve the validity of a statute,
or an authority exercised, under the Ufiited States, since it is
by virtue of such authority that the marshal executes the
writ. No question is raised here as to the validity of a statute,
but merely as to the application of the statute to this case.
The appeal is, therefore,
Dismissed.

McGOURKEY

v. TOLEDO AND OHIO
RAILWAY COMPANY.

CENTRAL

AI.PEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TIHE
NORTHERN

DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 35. Argued November 4, 1892. -Decided

December 19, 1892.

On the 2d of April, 1884, 1M. filed a petition to intervene in a suit which had
been commenced January 2, 1884, for the purpose of foreclosing a mortgage dn a railroad. A receiver had been appointed and was In possession of the road and roiling stock. - The intervenor claimed title to a
large part of the latter. The petition prayed (1) that the receiver perform all the covenants of the lease, and pay all sums due, etc. ; (2) or
that he be directed to deli'er to petitioner the rolling stock in, order that
the same might be sold; (3)that he be directed to file a statement of the
number of miles run, and of the sums received for the use of such rolling stock; (4) that it be referred to an examiner to take testimony and
report ibhe value of the use of such rolling stock While in the custody of
the receiver, and that the receiver be directed io pay the amount justly

