HARDEE v. WILSON.
Opinion of the Court.

even to the extent of reducing the interest collectible under
such judgment.
I am authorized by MR.
BREWER

JUSTICE FIELD and MR.
to say that they concur in this opinion.

JUSTICE

HARDEE v. WILSON.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.
No. 34. Argued November 3, 1892. -Decided

November 21, 1892.

Where a decree in equity is a joint one against all the defendants, all the
parties defendant must join in the appeal from it.
There is nothing in the facts in this case to take it out of the operation of
that general rule.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Af. William D. Harden (with whom was .MXr. Charles N.
West on the brief) for appellant.

Xfr. Thomas P. Ravenel (with whom were -.
Ruf'us E.
Lester and &r.Livingston -Yenan on the brief) for appellee.
MR. JUSTCE SHIRAS

delivered the opinion of the court.

It appears by this record that Benjamin J. Wilson filed in
the Superior Court of Washington County, in the State of
Georgia, his bill of complaint against James M. Minor, Annie
E. Minor and John L. Hardee, and that the cause was subsequently removed into the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Southern District of Georgia. In his bill the complainant charged that a certain conveyance -of land, made on
the 18th day of March, 1876, by-said James M. Minor to himself as trustee for his wife, Annie E. Minor, and a certain

OCTOBER TERMI, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

other deed of conveyance of the same lands, made on the 6th
day of February-, 187[,to John L.Hardee, were without consideration, and with the intention of putting said lands beyond
the reach of his creditors, and particularly with the intention
to delay, hinder and defraud him, the said complainant, in the
collection of a certain judgment in his favor against Minor,
and prayed that said deeds might be declared null and void as
to his said demand.
Answers were filed. to this bill by Hardee, and by Minor
and his wife, and the case was so proceeded with that, on the
i2th day of December, 1887, a final decree was entered declaring, in effect, that the trust'deed in favor of Minor's wife was
void, and that the deed to Hardee could only operate as a
security for the payment of a certain sum of money found to
be due Hardee on an account stated by a master.
From this decree Hardee has appealed, and the question
presents itself whether his appeal can be heard in the absence
of Minor and his,wife, who were codefendants with him in
the court below, and who have taken no appeal.
Undoubtedly the general rule is that all the parties defendant, where the decree is a joint one, must join in the appeal.
Owings v. Kincannon, 7 Pet. 399; .Xussina v. Cavazos, 6
Wall. 355.
In the present case, Hlardee, the appellant, complains that
the decree below was wrong, as respects him, in two particulars : First, in declaring that the deed, absolute in form, from
Minor and wife to him, was merely a security; and, second, if
the deed were a security only, in fixing the amount of his
-debt at too small a sum. And as it was the interest of Minor
and wife to have their deed to Hardee held' to be a security,
merely, and also to have the debt thereby secured found as
small as possible, particuiarly as the decree gave them a beneficial.interest in the proceeds of the sale of the land ordered
by the decree, it was contended that it would be for the interest of Minor and wife to have the decree stand, and that hence
Hardee might prosecute his appeal alone.
At the same time it was said that if this were not so, the
Minors had disclaimed any interest. But the disclaimer was

I- ARDEE v. WILSON.
Opinion of the Court.

nothing more than that the Minors agreed with the position
taken by Hardee, which, however, the Circuit Court held to
be untenable. And it further appears that one matter in controversy in the court below was the validity of the deed of
trust declared by Minor in favor of his wife, and which deed
was declared by the decree in the court below to have been
given without consideration, and in fraud of Wilson and other
creditors of Minor, and as respects this feature of the decree
it was the right of Minor and wife *to have taken an appeal.
In the case of _31asterson.v. H-erndon, 10 Wall. 416, it was held
that, "It is the established doctrine of this court that in cases
at law, where the judgment is joint, all the parties against
whom it is rendered must join in the writ of error; and in
chancery cases, all the parties against whom a joint decree is
rendered must join in the appeal, or they will be dismissed.
There are two reasons for this: 1. That the successful party
may be at liberty to proceed in the enforcement of his judgment or decree against the parties who do not desire to have
it reviewed. 2. That the appellate tribunal shall not be required to decide a second or third time the same question on
the same record. In the case of Williams v. Bank of thue United
States, 11 Wheat. 414, the court says that where one of the
parties refuses to join in a writ of error, it is worthy of consideration whether the other may not have remedy by suminons and severance; and in the case of Todd v. Daniel, 16
Pet. 521, it is said distinctly that such is the proper course.
This remedy is one which has fallen into disuse in modern
practice, and is unfamiliar to the profession; but it was, as
we find from an examination of the books, allowed generally,
when more than one person was interested jointly in a caise
of action or other proceeding, and one of them refused to participate in the legal assertion of the joint rights involved in
the matter. In such case the other party issued a writ of
summons by which the one who refused to' proceed was
brought before the court, and if he still refused, an order or
judgment of severance was made by the court, whereby the
party who wished to do so could sue alone. One of the effects
of this judgment was to bar the party who refused to proceed,

.18B

OCTOBER TERIM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

-

from prosecuting the same right in another action, as the defendant could not be harassed by two separate actions on a
joint obligation, or on account of the same cause of action, it
being joint in its nature. This remedy was applied to cases
of writs of error when one of the plaintiffs refused to join iu
assigning errors, and in principle is no doubt as applicable to
cases where there is a refusal to join in obtaining a-writ of
error or in an appeal. The appellant in this case seems to have
been conscious that something of the kind was necessary, for
it is alleged in his petition to the Circuit Court for an appeal
that :Maverick [the codefendant] refused to prosecute the
appeal with him. We do not attach importance to the technical mode of proceeding called summons and severance. We
should have held this appeal good if it bad appeared in any
.way by the record that Maverick had been notified in writing
to appear, and that he had failed to appear, or, if appearing,
had refused to join. But the mere allegation of his refusal, in
the petition of appellant, does not prove this. We think there
should be a written notice and due service, or the record should
show his appearance and refusal, and that the court on that
ground granted an appeal to the party-wvho prayed for it, as
to his own interest. Such a proceeding would remove the
objections made in permitting one to appeal without joining
the other, that is, it would enable the court below to execute
its decree so far as it could be executed on the party who
refused to join, and it would estop that party from bringing
another appeal for the same matter. The latter point is one
to which this court has always attached much importance,
and it has strictly adhered to the rule under which this case
must be dismissed, and also to the general p1roposition that no
decree can be appealed from which is not final inthe sense of
disposing of the whole matter in controversy, so far as it has
been possible to adhere to it without hazarding the substaitial
rights of parties interested."
In the case of -Downing v. .3fcCartney, reported in the
Appendix to 131 U. S. at page 98, where the decree beloye
was joint against three complainants, and one only appealeet
,and there was nothing in the record showing that the othei-

COOK v. HART.
Syllabus.

complainants had notice of this appeal, or that they refused to
join in it, the appeal was therefore dismissed. .Mason v.
United States, 136 U. S. 581, was a case where a postmaster
and the sureties on his official bond being sued jointly for a
breach of the bond, he and a part of the sureties appeared
and defended. The suit was abated as to two of the sureties,
who had died, and the other sureties made default, and judgment of default was entered against them. On the trial a
verdict was rendered for the plailltiff, whereupon judgment
was entered against the principal and all the sureties for the
amount of the verdict. The sureties who appeared sued out a
writ of error to this judgment, without joining the principal.
or the sureties who had made default. The plaintiff in error
moved to amend the writ of error by adding the omitted
parties as complainants in error, or for a severance of the
parties, and it was held that the motion must be denied and
the writ of error be dismissed. In Feibebnan v. Packard,108
U. S. 14, a writ of error was sued out by one of tw5 or more
joint defendants, without a summons and severance or equivalent proceeding, and was therefore dismissed.
The state of facts shown by the record brings the present
case within the scope of the cases above cited, and it follows
that the appeal must be
.Dismissed.

COOK v. HART.
APPEAL

FROMf THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.
No. 1067.

Argued October 31, November 1, 1892.-

Decided November 21, 1892.

Ker v. Illinois, 119 U. S. 436, and Mahon v. Justice, 127 U. S. 700, affitmed
as to the following points:
(1) That this court will not interfere to relieve persons who have been
arrested and taken by violence from the territory of one State to
that of another, where they are held under process legally issued
from the courts of the latter State;

