OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Syllabus.

The bill of exceptions shows that the only position taken
by the defenda'nts at the close of the evidence was a prayer to
the court "to submit instructions to the jury upon the pleadings and evidence." No specific instructions were prayed for,
and no request was made to direct a verdict for the defendants.

The defendants contented themselves with objecting and excepting to the direction of a verdict for the plaintiffs, and to

the refusal of the court generally to submit instructions to the
Judgment affirmed.
jury.

LLOYD v. PRESTON.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No.59.

Argued November 29, 30, 1892. -Decided

December 1, 1892.

In 1881, H., a citizen of Ohio, through P., M. and others of Chicago, speculated in grain in the markets of the latter city, lost money, and settled
with his Chicago creditors by agreeing to convert a narrow gauge railroad in Ohio, which he owned, into a standard gauge, and to extend the
same to places named in the agreement, and to organize a new company
to take the property thus altered and extended, and to cause the new
company to issue bonds which the creditors were to take in satisfaction of their respective debts. The company was organized; the stock
and bonds were issued and delivered to 11., except a small amount of
stock which was issued to sundry persons to enable them to become
directors; and H. passed over the property to the company. The value
of the property so conveyed was very much less than the face value of
the stock and bonds so issued for it. No money payments of subscriptioq to the stock were made by H. to the company. The railway company soon became insolvent, and in 1885, after recovery of judgments
against it for amounts due and payable on its bonds, P., AT. and the
other creditors fileda bill in ejuity to compel H. to pay his subscriptions
in cash. A part of the stock of H. having been passed over to L., the
bill set forth that that transfr had been made for the benefit of H., and
sought to make H. liable in like manner for that stock. H. answered to
the bill. Afterwards he became insolvent, and made an assignment of
his estate for the benefit of his creditors. The assignee then appeared,
and set up that the only consideration for the original debts of P., M.
and others was an illegal gambling transaction, by betting upon future

LLOYD v. PRESTON.
Statement of the Case.
values of wheat; that the claims which formed the sole cbnsideration
for the transfer of the bonds was a pretended balance of said winnings;
and that the judgments were founded on the bonds so transferred and
on no other consideration. There were other pleadings which need not
be detailed. The allegations respecting the character of the grain transactions were, on motion, stricken out by the court below. Held,
(1) That the organization was grossly fraudulent from first to last,
with.put a single honest incident or redeeming feature;
(2) That P., M. and the other Chicago creditors had not only no knowledge or complicity in the company's illegal organization, but that
they understood that the stockh lders were to be subject to the
lability imposed by the law of Ohio, namely, full payment in
money or its equivalent, and, in addition, 100 per cent;
(3) That the evidence, if taken to be true, did not establish a gambling
transaction between H. and P., M. and th4 other creditors;
(4) That, therefore, the defendant was not, injured by the action of the
court in striking out allegations regarding these transactions, and
in afterwards passing upon them;
(5) That the same measure of liability applied to the stock of I. standing in L.'s name which applied to that standing in his own name;
(6) That as the attention of the court below was not called to the question of the allowance of interest, this court would not disturb the
decree in that respect.

ON October 12, 1881, Edward L. Harper was the owner of
what was then known as the Columbus, Washington and Cincinnati Railroad,-a narrow gauge road extending from Allentown to New Burlington, in the State of Ohio. Prior to that
time Harper had been engaged in the purchase and sale of
grain, in the city of Chicago, Illinois, through J. W. Preston
& Co., W. E. McHenry, Preston & iMcHenry, and H. Eckert
& Co., agents for W. E. McHenry .and Preston & McHenry,
and on account of such grain transactiofs the said persons
made claims against Harper, which he disputed. * By way of
settlement and compromise of these claims, Harper entered
into an agreement, October, 12, 1881, with the said Preston
& McHenry, and their agents, which agreement, after naming
the parties thereto, and settingout Harper's ownership of the
said railroad, proceedl as follows:
"First. That the said Harper shall cause the gauge of- said
road to be changed to.the standard gauge, and shall extend
the same from its present terminus at Allentown, Olio, on-the

OCTOBER TERAK, 1892Statement of the Case.

Dayton and Southwestern Railroad, to the town of Jeffersonville, on the Southern Ohio Railroad, and make the connection
with the last-named road ; also shall extend it from its present
western terminus at New Burlington to the present line of the
Little Miami Railroad, at or near the town of Corwin, and
make connection therewith.
"Second. And the said Harper agrees to make said gauge
and said extensions and connections with said roads within
four months from the date of this contract.
"Third. And the said Harper further agrees within the
same period of four'months to cause to be organized under
the laws of Ohio a railway company, to be named the Cincinnati, Columbus and Hocking Valley Railway Company, and
to convey, or cause to be conveyed and transferred, to said
company said railroad and extensions, and all the privileges,
appurtenances and plant thereunto belonging, an unencumbered title therefor, except the mortgage bonds herein provided for.
"Fourth. And the said Harper further agrees to cause said
company to issue its coupon bonds of one hundred, five hundred and one thousand dollars each, payable in 'forty years,
with interest at six per cent per annum, payable semi-annually,
which shall be secured by a first mortgage upon the said railroad and its extensions and the real and personal property and
franchises of said company then owned or thereafter acquired
by it, said first mortgage bonds not to exceed in the aggregate
an amount equal to the rate of twenty thousand dollars per
mile of the length of said road and extensions; and said larper likewise agrees to cause said company to issue income
bonds of one hundred, five hundred and one thousand dollars
each, payable in forty years, properly secured, which shall not
exceed in the aggregate twenty thousand dollars per mile,
interest and principal of said bonds to be made payable in
New York City.
"Fifth. And the said Harper further agrees to deliver to
the said other parties hereto in payment of their respective
claims said first mortgage bonds at the par value thereof, as
follows:

LLOYD v. PRESTON.
Statement of the Case.

"To the said J. W. Preston & Co., seventy-five -thousand
five hundred and thirty-four dollars.
"To the said W. E. McHenry, twelve hundred and fifty
dollars.
"To the said Preston & McHenry, one hundred'and thirtyseven thousand and six hundred and twenty-two dollars.
"To the said H. Eckert & Co., agents for W. E. M,cHenry
and Preston & McHenry, five hundred dollars, and likewise
to deliver as a bonus at the par value thereof fifty per centum
of the above amount respectively in said income bonds.
"Said deliveries to be made within four months from the
date hereof at the Third National Bank of Cincinnati.
"And the said Howard Eckert & Co., J. W. Preston & Co.,
W. E. McHenry and Preston & Mcllenry, each for himself
and themselves, agree to accept said first mortgage and
income bonds in full payment of the indebtedness of said
Harper to each of them respectively."
On November 7, 1881, a corporation was organized under
the laws of the State of Ohio, under the name of the Cincinnati, Columbus and Hocking Valley Railway Company, the
said Harper and five other persons being the incorporators, and
the capital stock being fixed at $2,500,000, divided into 25,000
shares of the par value of $100 each. Of this stock Harper
subscribed for 2500 shares, at the par value, and John L. Pfau,
E. Snowden, J. H. Matthews, W. H. IIarper, J. F. Gimperling,
D. P. Hyatt and William C. Herron, of the State of Ohio,
and George E. Clymer, of the State of Kentucky, subscribed
for one share each. After the subscriptions were made, the
stockholders met and elected a board of seven directors, composed of all the stockholders of the company except F. L.
Harper and W. C. Herron. Immediately upon their election,
on December 13, 1881, the board of directors met, all the
members being present, and chose officers and adopted bylaws. At this meeting the following proposition was made
to the directors by the said Harper:
"I hereby propose to broaden the gauge of the road now
owned by me to a standard gauge, and extend the same on
the west to near Corwin, on the Little Miami road, and also

OCTOBER TERDi , 1892.
Statement of the Case.

to extend the east end to Jeffersonville, on the Springfield
Southern road, say, about thirty miles of railroad, and hereby
agree to sell the same to your company for eighteen hundred
thousand dollars of the par value of the securities of your
company, as follows, viz.:
"Six hundred thousand dollars of the first mortgage, forty
years, six per cent bonds, issued at the rate of twenty thousand dollars per mile of constructed road.
"Six hundred thousand dollars of the income bonds, issued
at the rate of twenty thousand dollars per mile of constructed
road, and six hundred thousand dollars of the capital stock,
including subscriptions already subscribed."
A motion to accept this proposition was carried by a unanimous vote of the directors.
At a meeting of the stockholders of the company, held on
January 2,.1881, all the stockholders being present either in
person or by proxy, the action of the directors in accepting
the above proposition was ratified.
On June 20, 1882, a called .meeting of the board of directors was held at the office of the company, in Cincinnati, Ohio,
at which the following motion was unanimously carried:
"Whereas, the president, Mr. Gimperling, reports that E. L.
Harper has complied with his cdntr.ct made with the company for the construction of twenty-eight miles of railroad
from Claysville Junction to Jeffersonville, Ohio, and that the
chief engineer, H. Phillips, has certified to the Union Trust
Co. of New York that the twenty-eight miles have been constructed in accordance with the terms of the contract:
Therefore,
"1Resolved,That the road be accepted irom said E. L. liarper, and he be paid any balance in bonds, stock or money
which may be due him on said contract, taking his receipt for
the same."
There appears to have been no otfer meeting of the directors or stockholders, except a meeting of the directors, held on
February 20, 1883, when B. D. Hyatt was elected president
and general manager, and W. C. IHerron was elected a di'rector,
to fill vaeanciesrcaused by the resignation of J. E. Gimperling.

LLOYDi.

PRESTON.

Statement of the Case.

On February 11, 1882, Preston & McHeniry and their
agents gave to the said Harper a receipt for $214,000 in first
mortgage bonds and $107,200 in income bonds of the said
Cincinnati, Columbus and Hocking Valley Railway Company,
in full satisfaction of their claims against him- under the above
-greement of October 12, 1881.
On June 5, 1885, Josiah W. Preston, Eugene H. Lahee,
William E. McHenry, Charles J. Gilbert, William T. Baker,
Murray Nelson, Abram Poole, Almore A. Kent, Selah Young,
Jr., and James S. Sherman, of the State of Illinois, filed their
bill in equity in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Ohio, Western Division, against the Cincinnati, Columbus and Hocking Valley Railroad Company,
E. L. Harper, John L. Pfau, E. Snowden, J. H. Matthews,
D. P. Hyatt, W. H. Harper, W. C. Herron, Lewis Seasongood,
W. D. Lee and John E. Gimperling, of the State of Ohio, and
George E. Clymer, of the State of Kentucky, alleging that in
a previous action in the same court certain of the individual
complainants, or certain of the complainants jointly, had
recovered judgments for divers amounts respectively against
the said railway company; that thereupon writs of ferifacias
had been, issued against the property of the company and
returned unsatisfied; and that, the company having become
insolvent, and having abandoned all action under its charter,
nothing could be accomplished through it or its officers by
way of collecting unpaid stock subscriptions, or other credits
due to said corporation.
The bill also alleges that no part of said subscriptions for
the capital stock of the company by E. L. Harper and others
has been paid; that the company was duly organized and
incorporated under and by virtue of the laws of the State of
Ohio, and that the capital stock of $2,500,000 was subscribed
for as stated above. Also, that W. D. Lee, of the State of
Ohio, became and is the holder of certain certificates representing 3000 shares, of the par value of $100 each, of the stock
of the corporation; that said certificates were issued and
delivered by the said company to the said W. D. Lee on or
about June 1, 1882, at the-special instance and request and

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

for the use and benefit of the said E. L. Harper; that nothing
has been paid to the said company for the said stock; and
that all of the amount due for the same is necessary to discharge the indebtedness of the corporation upon the said
several judgment claims in the bill described.
The answer states th6 said Harper's ownership of the said
narrow gauge railroad; that some claim was made by the
said Preston & McHenry, and their agents against Harper,
which he disputed; and that a settlement and compromise of
this claim was effected by the article of agreement of October
12, 1881, above recited. The answer also sets out the incorporation and organization of the said company, and alleges
that a proposition was made to the company by Harper, to
convey to it the narrow gauge railroad property, upon the
terms specified in the said agreement, and that the said proposition was accepted by the company, and bonds upon the
property issued to Iarper; that at the time Harper agreed to
convey, and did convey, said road to the company, and it
agreed to issue to him said bonds and stock in full satisfaction therefor, said company had not incurred any debt or
obligation whatever, and that the obligation to issue said
bonds was not incurred until said agreement was made by
which Harper subscribed and paid for stock as above stated,
and as part of the same transaction ; and that the company
did not issue nor become liable on said bonds on which said
judgments were taken until June 2, 1882. Further answering,
the defendant alleges that, pursuant to said agreement, he
caused the company to execute and issue said bonds to the
Union Trust Company of New York, and made said bonds
payable to bearer,- and thereupon caused to be delivered to
Preston & Co. and others said bonds called for in the abovestated contract, and that they, with full knowledge of the
history of the said transaction, as above appears, accepted
said bonds, and received the same in full satisfaction of the
said agreement; that said judgments were rendered on said
identical bonds, so issued to Preston & Co. and others; and
that no other stock of the company is owned or held by any
person, nor has any ever been subscribed, held or owned by

LLOYD v. PRESTON.
Statement of the Case.

any person or persons, except the said stock paid for by
Harper by the transfer of the said road to the company.
To the answer a formal replication was filed, which was
afterwards withdrawn, and an amended bill filed by the complainants on July '7,1SS7, alleging that at the time the said
proposition was submitted to the company each one of the
said directors was either in the employment and under the
pay of Harper, or otherwise under his direction and control;
that the pretended acceptance by the directors of the said
proposition was in fact the act of Harper, and was for the sole
purpose of enabling Harper and other subscribers for the stock
of the company, who are defendants in this cause, to escape
their liability to complainants herein, and to defraud and defeat them and others in their rights as creditors of the corporation; and that such act was done without complainant's
knowledge or consent. Also, that the railroad property transferred by Harper to the company was not worth one-fiftieth
part of the amount of said bonds issued by the company to
Harper in pretended payment therefor; that this fact was
well known by Harper, and by said directors and stockholders
who voted on said proposition, and that in considering and
acting on said proposition no regard whatever was paid by
the directors or any stockholder voting thereon to the actual
value of the property so conveyed; but that, on the contrary, the directors and stockholders acted in this behalf
solely at the dictation of Harper, and in disregard of the
rights and interests of the corporation, and for the purpose of
shielding and protectigg Harper and themselves from their
liability to complainants and others on account of thei! subscriptions for said stock. This amended bill prays that the
said agreement between Harper and the company and its directors may be set aside and declared to be void as against the
rights of claimants as creditors of the corporation.
To the amended bill Harper filed an answer, admitting that
the said directors were either employed by or related to him,
but he denies that their acceptance of his said proposition was
the act of himself, and avers that it was just what it purported to be -the action of the company. He alleges that

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

the object of the organization of the company was well known
to the complainants, and that they knew there was no money
to be paid on any subscription for the stock, and that such
subscription was a mere matter of form, adopted simply for
the purpose of creating an organization having power to issue
bonds; that Preston & Co. and others agreed with Harper,
at the time of the making of the said contract, that he should
become the owner of all the stock of the company, as well as
the said bonds, as the consideration for the transfer to the
company, of the said narrow gauge road and that the said
contract was made in pursuance of the wishes and understanding of Preston and others, and that it was not made with any
fraudulent purpose. All the allegations of the amended bill
not admitted are denied. A replication to this answer was
filed July 30, 1887.
On ii£arch 28, 1888, a supplemental bill was filed by complainants, in which Emma C. Preston appears as executrix of
the estate of J. W. Preston, deceased. This supplemental
bill alleges that since the filing of the original bill and the
amended bill E. L. Harper became insolvent, and made an
assignment for the benefit of his creditors, under the insolvent
laws of the State of Ohio, and that Harlan P. Lloyd was duly
appointed and is now acting as the sole trustee of all the property so transferred. Complainants therefore pray that said
Lloyd, trustee, may be made a party defendant in the case,
and be required to answer the premises and show cause.
On the same day, the said Harlan P. Lloyd filed an answer
and cros -bill to the original bill, amended bill, and supplemental bill, and to intervening bills filed by other claimants.
In this answer the said trustee alleges that the only consideration on which the said claim or claims upon which the said
agreement of October 12, 1881, was based, was a gaming transaction, in the form of a deal in options in wheat in the
market of the city of Chicago, in which transaction there was
no wheat actually owned or bought or sold, but that the transaction was only a betting on the future prices of wheat in
said market, in which the said complainants won from Harper, between January 1, 1881, and October 1, 1881, an amount

LLOYD v. PRESTON.

639',

Stateinent of the Case.

of money aggregating more than $600,000, of which Harper
paid not less than $400,000; that the said claim was for the
pretended balance of said winnings, and that said winnings
formed the sole consideration for the transfer of the bonds of
the said company to the complainants; and that the said
judgments were founded on said bonds so transferred, and on
no other consideration whatever. This answer prays that all
of said petitions of complainants be dismissed. In his crossbill the said trustee asks for a decree against Emma C. Preston, executrix, William E. McHenry, and Eugene H. Lahee in
the amount alleged to have been won by
the sum of. $400,000, afoxesaid.
as
said complainants
Complainants excepted to this answer for its insufficiency,
and moved to strike out that portion thereof referring to the
character of the grain transactions of Harper with Preston &
Co. and others prior to October 12, 1881. To the cross-bill
complainants demurred.
The court granted-said exceptions and motion, and sustained.
said demurrer, to which action of the court the defendant
Lloyd, trustee, excepted.
A final decree was entered in the cause in the said Circuit
Court of the United States on March 15, 1889, providing for
•:hq recovery by complainants of the sum of $322,531.67 from
E. L. Harper, being the aggregate amount of complainants' said
judgments entered in the previous action, with interest, and
for the recovery of the same amount from W. D. Lee. By
this decree judgment was also entered against all the other
defendants except George E. Clymer, who was not found,
and Lewis Seasongood, who was not shown to have been a
stockholder of the company, for the amount of their respective
subscriptions.
The court further decreed that complainants are entitled to
have the entire claim of said company against Harper, to wit,
$300,000, with interest from January 5, 1885, allowed as
against said Lloyd, trustee, for the purpose of securing to complainants their full proportion of the value of the credit of
the company against Harper's estate, and to have the total
sum obtainable upon said credit distributed between and paid
to the complainantspro rata. 36 Fed. Rep. 54.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument for Appellants.

Exceptions were taken by the defendants E. L. Harper and
H. P. Lloyd, trustee, to each and every part of the findings,
order, judgment and decree of the court, aud said defendants
prayed an appeal, which was granted.
Upon this appeal the case is before this court.
AMr. -. P. Dloyd for appellants.
Our opponents seek, on three grounds, to prevent the trustee
from setting up these gambling transactions as a defence in
the case: (1) That Harper did not set this up in his original
answer below; (2) That the question became ' sjidicata
by the decree of foreclosure in the prior suit upon the mortgage; (3) That the trustee stands in Harper's shoes and can
make no defence which Harper could not have made.
At the time that Harper filed his original answer he was
supposed to be in solvent circumstances, and was carrying on
a large business. He had ample means, and was handling
large sums of money. There may have been business considerations sufficient to control his mind and prevent his setting up the nature of this gambling debt. Whatever the
reason, these considerations were such that he did not set them
up. But he had an undoubted right to have availed himself
of this defence at any proper stage in the proceedings in this
case in the court below, and the fact that he did not do so,
does not bar the trustee from the exercise of his undoubted
right to do the same thing.
In the second place, it must be constantly borne in mind
that Harper was not a party to the foreclosure case in which
the decree was rendered against the defendant railway company. He was not called upon in that case to make any issue
as to the illegal consideration, and made none. The decree
in that case was binding only upon the parties to that action,
and was r'esjudicatz only as to the mktter which was directly
in issue in that action. The issue presented in the answer of
Lloyd was never passed upon in the other case.
But even if Harper could not have set up this failure of
consideration, and the nature of the transaction as a gambling

LLOYD v. PRESTON.
Counsel for Appellees.

debt, on the ground that he could not take advantage of his
own wrong, this objection does not lie against Lloyd, trustee,
who came into court and stands there as the representative of
the creditors. OCements v. 3foore, 6 Wall. 299; Casey v.
Cavaroc, 96 U. S. 467; Sawyer v. Ioag, 17 Wall. 610.
That this gambling transaction was in direct violation of
the law of Illinois, where the business was done, will appear
from an examination of the Illinois statute, and the decisions
of the Illinois courts and of the United States Supreme Court
thereupon. Rev. Stats. Illinois, 1874, pp. 372,' 373, c. 38,
% 130, 131, 135, 136; Brown v. Alexander, 29 Ill. App. 626;
West v. Carter,129 'Illinois, 249; Cofman v. Young, 20 Ill.
App. 76.
The gambling contract in the case at bar was illegal under
the law of Ohio, where the action was brought for the foreclosure of the mortgage bonds, and where the decree of foreclosure was rendered. 2 Rev. Stats. Ohio, 1890, 2010, § 6934a.
The general rule of law prevailing throughout the United
States is, that a contract made in violation of a statute is void;
that when the plaintiff cannot establish his cause of action,
without relying upon an illegal contract, he cannot recover.
-Miller v. Ammon, 145 *U. S. 421; Embrey v. Jemison, 131
U. S. 336.
This gambling contract was also void as against public
policy. Embrey v. Jemison, 131.U. S. 336; Irwin v. Williar,
110 U. S. 499; ]Roundtree v. Smith, 108 U. S. 269; Pearcev.
Rice, 142 U. S. 28.
There was also manifest error in the decree rendered in the
Circuit Court, so far as the same allowed anything against
Lloyd, trustee, except the amount of Harper's original stock
subscription of 2500 shares.
And further the assignment of Harper, as an insolvent,
took place on the 21st of June, 1887. At this time interest
ceased on all his obligations of every kind. The dividend
to be declared must be computed upon the amount of his
liabilities as they then existed.
.Mr.
£TV. Warrington for appellees.
TOL. CXOvI-41

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

MR.

JUSTIcE SHIRAS

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a bill filed by judgment creditors of the Cincinnati, Columbus and Hocking Valley Railway Company to
compel E. L. Harper and others to pay their respective unpaid
subscriptions to the capital stock of said company,.in order
that the same might be applied to the payment of complainants' judgments, which remained unsatisfied after proceedings
at law.
The bare-statement of the facts attending the organization
of the railway company fully justifies the opinion of the
court below "that the entire organization was grossly fraudulent from first to last, without a single honest incident or
redeeming feature."
It having been found, on convincing evidence, that the
over-valuation of the property transferred to the railway
company by Harper, in pretended payment of the subscriptions to the capital stock was so gross and obvious as, in connection with the other facts in the case, to clearly establish a
case of fraud, and to entitle bona jde creditors to enforce
actual payment V the subscribers, it only remains to consider
the effect of the defences set up.
The first is set up by Harper himself, in his answer to the
bill of complaint; the other by Lloyd, assignee for the benefit
of creditors of Harper, and who filed an answer and likewise
a cross-bill.
Harper's defence, beyond the allegation that the stock
subscriptions had been fully paid up by a transfer of property
to the railway company, consisted. in the assertion that Preston & Mcdenry were estopped from .alleging, as judgment
creditors of the railway company, that the capital stock was
not adequately and actually paid up, because they were cognizant of the proceedings by which the company was organized, and privy to the arrangement whereby the property
referred towas taken in full paynent of this stock; and that
the other complainants claimed under and through Preston &
McHenry, and were, therefore, affected by their knowledge
and complicity in the transaction.

LLOYD v. PRESTON.
Opinion of the Court.

Issues were taken on this allegation of Harper, and it was
found by the court below that Preston & McHenry did not
agree or understand that the subscriptions to the capital stock
of the railway company, whose bonds they agreed to take in
payment of Harper's indebtedness to them, were to be paid
by the simple transfer of the property to the railway company, but that they understood that the stockholders of the
company were to be subject to the liabilities imposed by the
law of Ohio, namely, full payment in money or its equivalent,
and, in addition, one hundred per cent individual liability,
and that they were in nowise chargeable with knowledge of
or complicity in the company's illegal organization.
Am examination of the evidence contained in the record
satisfies us of the correctness of this conclusion of the court
below.
This brings us to a consideration of the second ground of
defence, which is the one advanced by Lloyd, the assignee.
He alleges that the original indebtedness of Harper to Preston & McHenry, in payment of which they took the bonds of
the railway company, arose out of gambling transactions in
wheat deals at the Chicago Board of Trade; and he claimed,
accordingly, that not only were the bonds void in their hands,
but likewise the judgments obtained thereon against the railway company; and he further claimed, in his cross-bill, the
recovery of a large sum of money paid by Harper to Preston
& M Henry, on account of these alleged gambling transactions, before the settlement between the parties which resulted
in their taking the railway bonds in payment of the balance
due them.
It was the opinion of the court below that there was
absolutely no testimony in support of either the answer or
the cross-bill of the assignee.
The only evidence disclosed *by the record, on this issue,
appears at pages 46 and 47,and we fully concur with the court
below that neither this evidence nor any offer of evidence
made on behalf of the defence, if taken to be true, established
the case of a gambling transaction.
Complaint is made by the assignee of the course of the court

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

below, in striking out of his answer, on motion, the allegations
pertaining to the supposed gambling transactions, and in sustaining the demurrer to his cross-bill.
This action of the court was probably based on the view
urged on behalf of the complainants, that Lloyd, as assignee,
could not be heard, in this suit, to impeach the validity of the
judgments obtained against the railway company, by going
into an investigation of the nature of the original transaction
out of which had arisen the indebtedness of Harp6r to Preston
& Mcienry, and in a settlement of which the bonds had been
received by the latter.
But it does not appear to be necessary to inquire into the
reasons of the action of the court below in this respect, nor to
consider whether the lkgal position implied in that action was
sound, becauso, as we have seen, and as the court below held,
there was no evidence admitted or offered which sufficed to
sustain the allegation that the transactions between Jarper
and Preston & Mlcenry were of a gambling character.
Hence, if those allegations had been permitted to stand in
Lloyd's answer, there was no evidence to support them, and
he was not injured by the order of the court in striking them
out. But it is plain that the court treated those allegations
as before it, applied the evidence to them, and held that they
were not sustained; so that, even if the course of the court
was somewhat irregular, in striking out the allegations, and
in afterwards passing upon them and the evidence offered to
support them, the defendants were not thereby injured.
This view of the case renders it unnecessary to consider the
question whether Harper, as the owner of the capital stock
of the railway company, was concluded by the judgments
obtained by the complainants against the railway company,
and whether he or his assignee can go behind them, to disclose
the nature of the business transactions between Harper and
Preston & Mclenry.
There is an assignment of error to the decree wherein it
subjects the estate of Harper, in the hands of his assignee, to
liability on account of stock standing in the name of W. D.
Lee. But the court below found, from the evidence, that Lee

"LOYD

v. PRESTON.

Opinion of the Court.

took and held this stock for the use and benefit of Harper,
and, though served, he permitted the bill, with its allegations
to that effect, to go unanswered. The Ohio statute, applicable
to railway companies, provides that "the term ' stockholders'
shall apply not only to such persons as appear by the books
of the corporation to be such, but to any equitable owner of
stock, although the stock appears on the books in the name of
another."
It does not appear, therefore, that the court erred in holding
the same measure of liability to apply to Harper's stock stand-ing in the name of Lee as to that standing in his own name.
Nor does the objection that the decree was for an unnecessarily large amount, thus forming a basis for an inequitable division of the proceeds of the assets of Harper's estate, appear
to be well founded. The amount of the decree is not, as suggested by the assignee, the joint and aggregate amount of
the Harper and Lee stock, but is -restricted to the aggregate
amount of the judgments owned by the complainants.
Error is likewise assigned to the allowance of interest on
the judgments after the date of Harper's assignment. It is
claimed that, as against the estate in the hands of the assignee,
interest ceased from the date of the assignment.
There is nothing before us to show that there are not funds
in the hands of the assignee sufficient to pay Harper's debts in
full, with interest to the date of payment, and as it does not
appear that this matter was brought to the attention of the
court below, when framing the decree, or at any time, we do
not feel disposed to disturb the decree.
Finding no error in the record, the decree of the court
below is

A ffirnd.
The CHIEF

JUSTICE,

not having heard the argument, did

not take part in the decision of this case.

