OCTOBER TERY, 1892.
'Statement of the Case.

YESLER v. WASHINGTON IARBOR LINE COMMISSIONERS.
ERROR TO THE STTPPF.PVE

COURT OF THE STATE OF WASHINGTON.

No. 912. Argued October 24, 25, 1892. -Decided

December 19, 1892.

An allegation - in a petition to a state court for a writ of prohibition to
restrain State Harbor Commissioners from extending or locating harbor
lines over wharves erected by and belonging to the petitioner - that the
petitioner is and for thirty years past has been the owner of the wharf and
of the uplands abutting on the shore upon which the wharf was constructed, does not set up or claim a title, right, privilege or immunity
under the Constitution, or a statute of, or authority exercised under the
United States, so as to give jurisdiction to this court to review the judgment of the highest court of the State denying the writ.
Such a judgment does not deprive the owner of the wharf of his prrperty
without due process of law; nor is it in conflict with the provisions of
the act of September 19, 1890, (26 Stat. 426, 454, c. 907,) concerning tie
construction of wharves, etc., in navigable waters of tile United States
where no harbor lines are established.
The opinion of the state court in rendering. the judgment refusing the writ
of prohibition stated that the relator was not entitled to the writ because
he had other remedies of which he might have availed himself. Hield,
that this was broad enough to sustain tile decree, irrespective of the
decision of a Federal question, if any such arose.

ON October 28, 1890, the affidavit of J. D. Lowman, the
attorney in fact of I. L. Yesler, was filed in the Superior
Court of King County, State of Washington, stating:
"That said i. L. Yesler has lived in the city of Seattle
upwards of thirty years; that he is now and has been for
thirty years last past the owner of the following described
property, to wit, the property commonly known as Yesler's
wharf and dock and the upland abutting on the shore upon
which said wharf and dock were constructed; that said property abuts upon the shores of Elliott Bay; that more than
thirty years ago said Yesler, in aid of commerce and navigation, caused to be constructed in front of and to the westward
of said premises, and extending into Elliott Bay, a wharf and
dock at large expense, to wit, at the expense of one hundred

YESLER v. WASHINGTON HARBOR LINE COIMM'RS. 647,
Statement of the Case.

thousand dollars; that said Yesler, at large expense, for many
years prior to June 6, 1889, maintained and kept up said
wharf and docks in aid of commerce and navigation; that the
fire which occurred on the 6th day of June, 1889, and which
destroyed the city of Seattle, destroyed said wharves and
docks; that immediately thereafter said Yesler caused said
wharves and docks to be rebuilt at a large expense, to wit, at
the expense of fifty-six thousand dollars, and tas ever since
maintained said wharves and docks and now maintains the
same; that said wharves and docks are necessary aids to
commerce and navigation and are largely used and have been
largely used in building up and promoting the commerce of
the city of Seattle and of the State of Washington.
"That under and by virtue of the act of the legislature of
the State of Washington approved March 26, 1890, and entitled, 'An act for the appraising and disposing of the tide
and shore lands belonging to the State of Washington,' affiant
is entitled, as affiant believes, to the privilege of purchasing
the space upon which the improvements were made by him as
aforesaid upon the shore in front of the upland. Afflant
further says that under and by virtue of the act of the legislature of the State of Washington approved March 28, 1890,
entitled ' An act to create a board of harbor line commissioners,' prescribing their duties and compensation, the governor
of the State appointed as such commissioners W. F. Prosser,
Eugene Semple, 1. F. Garretson, Frank Richards, and D. C.
Guernsey; that the members of said H-larbor Line Commission
have duly qualified as such and entered upon the discharge of
their duties as such commission and are about to take final
action in the location and establishing of the harbor lines
within the limits of the city of Seattle; that, as affiant is
informed and believes, said commission propose and are about
to locate and establish such harbor lines in such a way as to
include within such harbor lines a large part of the improvements of afflant hereinbefore mentioned; that the extension of
the harbor lines over said improvements is an attempt on the
part of the said Harbor Line Commission to exercise unauthorized power and to do an act which is not within the jurisdic-

OCTOBER TER1f, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

tion of the said Harbor Line Commission; that said Harbor
Line Commission has not authority or' jurisdiction under the
laws of the State of Washington, as affiant is advised and
believes, to embrace or include within the harbor lines to be
located and established in front of the city 'of Seattle the
wharves, docks or other improvements made therein; that
after the fire of June 6, 1889, the said Yesler rebuilt, at large
expense as aforesaid, the wharves and docks above mentioned,
and did so upon the faith of protection afforded to said Yesler
by the act of legislature approved March 26, 1890, above
mentioned; that if the Harbor Line Commission aforesaid is
not prevented by a writ of prohibition from this honorable
court from extending the so-called harbor lines over the
wharves and docks of said Yesler the said commission will so
extend said lines and thus deprive said Yesler of the use and
benefit of his said wharves and docks without compensation
or due process of law, and cloud his title to the same in such a
manner as greatly to embarrass and hinder the plaintiff in the
legitimate use of his said property."
Deponent therefore prayed for a writ of prohibition, directed
to the said Harbor Line Commissioners, to prohibit and re-'
strain them and each of them "from extending, locating or
establishing the harbor lines in front of the city of Seattle or
in the harbor of the city of Seattle over the wharves and
docks of the said H. L. Yesler, or any part thereof, and from
filing the plat thereof in the office of the Secretary of 'State,
or the duplcate thereof in the office of the clerk of the city
of Seattle."
An alternative writ having been 'issued, defendants appearea
and moved to quash. The cause was heard upon the motion,
the motion denied, and judgment. rendered that the writ be
made absolute, "and that this court does hereby command
said respondents and each of them absolutely and finally that
they and each of them desist and refrain from any future proceedings in locating, establishing and extending the harbor
lines mentioned and referred to in the affidavit of J. D. Lowman, made and filed herein on October 28, 1890, and in said
alternative writ issued thereon, over, acrois and in front of

YESLER v. WASHINGTON HARBOR LINE COMMI'RS.

649

Statement of the Case.

the premises of said relator herein, H. L. Yesler, mentioned in
said alternative writ, to wit, the piemises commonly known
as Yesler's wharf and dock and the upland abutting on the
shore of Elliott Bay, upon which said wharf and dock were
constructed, and through the buildings thereon upon the shore
of Elliott Bay and in the harbor of the city of Seattle, in said
King County, or in such a manner as to embrace and include
said premises and improvements, or any part thereof, within
the harbor lines of said city of Seattle, until compensation
shall be ascertained and paid as required by law to said relator, H. L. Yesler, for the taking or damaging of his said
property and improvements thereby."
An appeal was prosecuted to the Supreme Court of the
State of Washington, the judgment reversed, and the petition
dismissed. The court held that-, as against the State, a littoral
owner, simply as such owner, could assert no valuable rights
below the line of ordinary high tide, (Eisenbach v. Hafield,
26 Pac. :Rep. 539;) that Yesler had no right to the land in
controversy, and, at the most, the only vested right he had
was in the wharf constructed thereon; that even though he
had a right to be compensated for his improvements, that
would not enable him to prevent the establishment of harbor
lines; that it could not be said that simply including the land
under the wharf within the harbor lines, was such a taking or
damaging of the wharf as would entitle its owner to compensation; and that it did not follow from such including within
the harbor lines that the State had interfered or ever would
interfere with his ownership or possession of the wharf. The
court was also of opinion that Yesler's title was not of a nature
to be clouded, and, even if it were, that the proceedings complained of could constitute no cloud thereon; and further, that
as to the legislation of Congress upon the subject of navigation and harbor lines, the state legislation was not opposed
thereto; and, besides, that the United States was the only
party that could interfere in such case. It was also held that
the writ of prohibition should only be granted in a clear case
and when no other remedy was available, and that it was not
satisfied that the ordinary proceedings in law or equity would

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

not completely protect petitioner's rights. State ex rel. IYes~er
v. Prosser,27 Pac. Rep. 550.
A writ of error from this court was thereupon allowed.
The State of Washington was admitted into the Union,
November 11, 1889, having a constitution containing the following provisions:
"Ar'ncLE

XV.

HARBORs AND TIDE -WATERS.

§ 1.

The

legislature shall provide for the appointment of a commission
whose duty it shall be to locate and establish harbor lines in
the navigable waters of all harbors, estuaries, bays and inlets
of this State, wherever such navigable waters lie within or in
front of the corporate limits of any city, or within one mile
thereof upon either side. The State shall never give, sell or
lease to any private person, corporation or association any
rights whatever in the waters beyond such harbor lines, nor
shall any of the area lying between any harbor line and the
line of ordinary high-tide, and within not less than fifty feet
nor more than six hundred feet of such harbor line (as the
commission shall determine) be sold Or granted by the State,
nor its rights to control the same relinquished, but such area,
shall be forever reserved for landings, wharves, streets and
other conveniences of navigation and commerce.
"§ 2. The legislature shall provide general laws for the
leasing of the right to build and maintain wharves, docks and
other structures, upon the areas mentioned in section one of
this article, but no lease shall be made for any term longer
than thirty years, or the legislature may provide by general
laws for the building and maintaining upon such area wharves,
docks and other structures.
"§ 3. M unicipal corporations shall have the right to extend
their streets over intervening tide lands to and across the area
reserved as herein provided."
"ARTICLE XVII. TIDE LANDS. § 1. The State of Washington asserts its ownership to the beds and shores of all
navigable waters in the State up to and including the line of
ordinary high tide in waters where the tide, ebbs and flows,
and up to and including the line of ordinary high water within

"ESLER v. WASHINGTON

hARBOR LINE CO]MM,'RS.

651

Statemenrt of the Case.

the banks of all navigable rivers and lakes: Provided, That
this section shall riot be construed so as to debar any person
from asserting his claim to vested rights in the courts of the
State.
"§ 2. The State of Washington disclaims all title in and
claim to all tide, swamp and overflowed lands patented by
the United States: Provided, The same is not impeached for
fraud."
" ARTICLE XXVII. SCHEDULE.
In order that no inconvenience may arise by reason of a change from a territorial
to a state government,, it is hereby declared and ordained as
follows:
"§ 1. No existing rights,
contracts or claims shall
be affected by a change in the form of government, but all
shall continue as if no such change had taken place;
"§ 2. All laws now in force in the Territory of Washington, which are not repugnant to this constitution, shall remain
in force until they expire by their own limitation, or are altered
or repealed by the legislature: Provided, That this section
shall not be so construed as to validate any act of the legislature-f Vashington'Territory granting shore or tide lands to
any person, company or any municipal or private corporation."
By a territorial la w (Laws Wash- Ter., 1854, 357), it was
provided that any person owning Iand-gdjoining any navigable
waters or watercourse within or bordering upon the Territory
might erect upon: his own land any wharf or wharves, and
might extend them so far into said waters or watercourses as
the convenience of shipping might require; and that whenever any person should ledesirous of erecting upon his own
land any wharf at ihe terminus of any highway or at any
accustomed landing place, he might apply to the county com-

missioners of the proper county, who, if they should be satisfied that the public convenience required the wharf, might
authorize-the same to be erected and kept up for any length
of time, not exceeding twenty years.
On March 26, 1890, an act of the legislature of the State
for the appraising and disposal of the tide and shore lands

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

belonging to the State was approved, the 11th section of
which provided: "The owner or owners of any lands abutting
or fronting upon or bounded by the shore of the Pacific Ocean,
or of any bay, harbor, sound, inlet, lake or watercourse, shall
have the right for sixty days following the filing of the final
appraisal of the tide lands to purchase all or any part of the
tide lands in front of the lands so owned: Provided, That if
valuable improvements in actual use for commerce, trade or
business have been made upon said tide lands by any person,
association or corporation, the owner or owners of such improvements shall have the exclusive right to purchase the land
so improved for the period aforesaid." 1 Hill's Stat. 758.
On March 28, 1890, an act was passed by the legislature of
Washington, entitled "An act to create a Board of Harbor
Line Commissioners, prescribing their duties and compensation." By the first section the Board of Harbor Line Commissioners was created, to consist of five disinterested persons
to be appointed by the governor, and the -third section is as
follows:
"SEc. 3. The duties of the said Harbor Line Commissioners
shall be to locate and establish harbor lines in the 'navigable
waters of all harbors, estuaries, bays and inlets of this State,
wherever such navigable waters lie within or in front of the
corporate limits ofany city or within one mile thereof upon
either side, and to perform all other duties provided and prescribed in article fifteen of the constitution of the State' of
Washington, and all such other duties as the law may prescribe, and wherever and whenever said Board of Harbor
Line Commissioners shall have established the lines as herein
provided, in any of the navigable waters of the harbors,
estuaries, bays and inlets of this State, they shall file the plat
thereof in the office of the Secretary of State, and a duplicate
thereof in the office of the clerk of the city or town where
harbor lines shall have been located; and from and after the
fMling of said plat, the harbor lines established as therein and
thereon designated and displayed shall be, and the same are
declared to be, the harbor line of that portion of the navigable
waters of this State." 1 Hill's Stat. 736.

YESLER v. WASHINGTON HARBOR LINE COMM'RS.

653

Opinion of the Court.

The defendants in error were duly appointed Harbor Line
Commissioners under this act, and qualified and entered upon
the discharge of their duties as such. They caused a survey
to be made of the harbor of the city of Seattle, and located a
harbor line along the entire harbor front and in front of the
area occupied by Yesler with his wharf, and caused a plat to
be made of the harbor front of the city, upon which was
plainly marked the harbor line so located by them, t6gether
with the location of all improvements. It is stated by counsel that thov also determined the Width of the strip which
the constitution reserved from sale, and caused a line to be
marked on the plat indicating the inner lihe of this area.
.. Thomas R. Shepard and Mb'. A. H. Garlandfor plaintiff
in error. .Mr. Andrew F. -Burleigh and .Mr. Charles F
Sheoard were on AXr. Shepard's brief.
-Mr. IF. C. Jones, Attorney General of the State of Washington, for defendants in error.
.Mr. John H. Xitchell and M2[r. Beriah Brown, J., filed a
brief for Baer, intervenor.
.Afr.* T. N. XcPherson and .Mr. Edwin B. Smith, counsel
for plaintiff in error in, No. 639, filed a brief, by leave of court.

MiR.

CHIEF JUSTiCE FULLEn,

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
The averment in relator's petition is that "he is now and
has been for thirty years last past the owner of the followingdescribed property, to wit, the property commonly known as
Yesler's wharf and dock and the upland abutting on the shore
upon which said wharf and dock were constructed." It is
said in argument that he is an original patentee of the United
States, under the "Donation Act" of September 27, 1850,
(9 Stat: 496, c. 7.6,) of a tract of about one hundred and sixty
'acres of laud; entered by him in 1852, embracing all the

OCTOBER TERM,

1892.

Opinion of the Court.

upland mentioned in the petition, and bounded on the west
by the meander line of Elliott Bay. But this is not so stated
in the petition, and whatever might be inferred as to the
character and source of his ownership, it cannot reasonably
be- held that relator by this allegation specially set up or
claimed a title, right, privilege or immunity under the Constitution, or a statute of, or authority exercised under, the
United States in this behalf. In other words, the ground of
our jurisdiction cannot be rested upon the denial by the state
court of a right claimed by plaintiff in error, in respect to
his ownership, under an act of Congress. But it is contended
that the contemplated action of the Harbor Line Commissioners would be in violation of the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment, as amounting to a deprivation of property
without due process of law; and also that it would be in
conflict with the act of Congress, entitled "An act making
appropriations for th e construction, repair and preservation
of certain public works on rivers and harbors, and for other
purposes," approved September 19, 1890. 26 Stat. 426, 454,
c. 907.
Section 7 of that act declares that it shall not be lawful to
build any wharf, pier, dolphin, boom, dam, weir, breakwater,
bulk-head, jetty or structure of any kind outside of established
harbor lines, or in any navigable waters of the United States
where no harbor lines are or may be established, without the
permission of the Secretary of War, in any port, roadstead,
haven, harbor, navigable river-or other waters of the United
States, in such manner as shall obstruct or impair navigation,
commerce or anchorage in said waters ; and by section 12, in
amendment of section 12 of the river and harbor act of August- 11, 1888, the Secretary of War was authorized to cause
harbor lines to be established when essential to the preservation and protection of harbors, beyond which no piers, wharves,
bulk-heads or other works should be extended or deposits
made, except under such regulations as might be prescribed
from time to time by him. Penalties are denounced for the
violation of either of these sectioips. We do not understand
that any conflict of jurisdiction over the regulation of the

YESLER v. WASHINGTON HARBOR LINE COMM'RS. 655
Opinion of the Court.

harbor of Seattle will be precipitated by what the defendants
propose to do, or that relator could sustain his invocation of
judicial interference on such a theory. If the location and
establishment of harbor lines by these commissioners is actually in violation of the laws of the United States, their vindication may properly be left to the general government. It is
obvious that the decision of the state court in this regard was
not against any title or right of relator arising undev a statute
of the United States.
This brings us to consider whether the contemplated proceedings would deprive Yesler of his property without due
process of law. The contention seems to be that a part of
his improvements are included in the strip which th- constitution of Washington forbids the State from selling, or gra.
ing or relinquishing its rights over, and that, therefore, tho
location and establishment of the harbor lines as proposed
would amount to a taking of his property without compensation. The harbor line is the line beyond which wharves and
other structures cannot be extended, and a map is exhibited
by counsel which shows an inner line, delineating the inner
boundary of the strip referred to. This inner line, which is
six hundred feet distant from the harbor line, happens to cross
the outer end of relator's wharf, but the harbor line is several
hundred feet away.
By the 16th section of Article I of the constitution of
Washington no private property can be taken or damaged for
public use without just compensation. The similar limitation
upon the power of the general government, expressed in the
Fifth Amendment, is to be read with the Fourteenth Amendment, prohibiting the States from depriving any person of
property without due process of law, and from denying to any
person within their jurisdiction the equal protection of the
laws. The amendment undoubtedly forbids any arbitrary
deprivation of life, liberty or property, and secures equal
protection to all under like circumstances in the enjoyment of
their rights. Assuming our jurisdiction to revise the judgment of a State tribunal upholding a law authorizing the
taking of private property without compensation, to be un-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

questionable, (Kaulauna Co. v. Green. .ay Co., 142 U. S.
254, 269,) we cannot accede to the position that the action of
the Harbor Line Commissioners, in locating the harbor line
and filing the plat, would take any of relator's property, or so
injuriously affect it as to come within the constitutional inhibition. The filing of maps of definite location in the exercise
of the power of eminent domain furnishes no analogy. The
design of the state law is to prohibit the encroachment by
private individuals and corporations on navigable waters, and
to secure a uniform water front; and it does not appear from
relator's application that the defendants have threatened in
any manner to disturb him in his possession, nor that that
which is proposed to be done tends to produce that effect.
Whatever his rights, they remained the same after as before,
and the proceedings, as the Supreme Court said, could not
operate to constitute a cloud upon them from the standpoint
of relator himself, for if nothing further could lawfully be
done in the absence of legislation for his protection, that was
apparent. The consequences which he deprecated were too
remote to form the basis of decision. Whatever private rights
or property he has by virtue of the Territorial act of 1854, or
of the state act of 1890, whatever his right of access to navigable -,faters or to construct a wharf from his own land, we
do not see that he would be deprived of any of them by the
action he has sought to prohibit. It may be true that the
width of the reserved strip as delineated on the map brings
the inner line across the outer .end of relator's wharf, in re-spect of which, as if it were- the harbor line, he complains
that his right under the act of March 26, 1890, to purchase
the ground occupied by his improvements, would be interfered
with; but the construction of that act is for the state court to
determine, and the averments of the affidavit and alternative
writ make no issue upon it, as affected by the constitutional
provision. The commissioners are to locate and establish
harbor lines, whereupon the area between the harbor line and
the line of ordinary high tide, within not less than fifty nor
more than six hundred feet of the harbor line is reserved,
under the Atate constitution. Whether the end of relator's

HUNTINGTON v. ATTRILL.
Syllabus.

wharf is within that area and the consequent effect, the record
does not call upon us to consider.
It may properly be added that the decision of the Supreme
Court indicates that in its opinion relator was not entitled to
the writ of prohibition, because he had other remedies of
which he might have availed himself. This was a ground
broad enough to sustain the judgment irrespective df the decision of any Federal question, if such arose; but we have
considered the case in the other aspect, as the ruling of the
Supreme Court in this regard is perhaps not sufficiently definite for us justly to decline jurisdiction upon that ground.
Our conclusion is that no Federal question was so raised
upon this record as to justify our interposition, and therefore
the writ of error is
-Dismiseed.

HUNTINGTON v. ATTRILL.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS dF THE STATE OF MARYLA.ND.
No. 33.

Argued April 26, 1892. -Decided

December 12,1892.

A bill in equity in one State to set aside a conveyance of property mide in
fraud of creditors, and to charge it with' the payment of a judgment
since recovered by the plaintiff" against the debtor in another State upon
his liability as ali officer in a corporation under a statute of that State, set
forth the judgment and the cause of action on which it was recovered; and
also asserted, independently of the judgment, an original liability of the
defendant as a stockholqer and officer in that corporation before the conveyance. The higiest court of the State declined to entertain the bill
by virtue of the judgment, because it had been recovered in another
State in an action for a penalty; or to maintain the bill on the original
liability, for various reasons. Held, that the question whether due faith
and credit were thereby denied to the judgment was a Federal question,
of which this court had jurisdiction on writ of error.
The question whether a statute 6f one State, which in some aspects may be
called penal, is a penal 14w in the international sense, so that it cannot be
enforced in the courts of another State, depends upon the question whether
its purpose is to punish an offence against the public justice of the State,
or to afford a private remedy to a person injured by the wrongful act.
A statute making the officers of a corporation, who sign and record a false
VOL. CXLVI-42

