NEBRASKA PRESS ASSN. v. STUART

1319

Opinion in Chambers

NEBRASKA PRESS ASSN. ET AL. v. STUART, JUDGE
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-426.

Decided November 13, 1975

Action by MR. JUSTICE BLACKMUN, as Circuit Justice, on application by Nebraska news media for stay of a state-court order
restricting news coverage of alleged murders and criminal proceedings in prosecution thereof deferred pending prompt decision
on the application by the Nebraska Supreme Court, which had
"continued" the matter until it was known whether MR. JUSTICE
BLACKMUN

would act.

MR. JUSTICE BLACKMUN,

Circuit Justice.

This is an application for stay of an order of the District Court of Lincoln County, Neb., that restricts coverage by the media of details concerning alleged sexual
assaults upon and murders of six members of a family
in their home in Sutherland, Neb.; concerning the investigation and development of the case against the accused;
and concerning the forthcoming trial of the accused.
The applicants are Nebraska newspaper publishers, national newswire services, media associations, a radio
station, and employees of these entities.
The accused is the subject of a complaint filed in the
County Court of Lincoln County, Neb., on October 19,
1975. The complaint was amended on October 22 and,
as so amended, charged the accused with having perpetrated the assaults and murders on October 18. On
October 21, the prosecution filed with the County Court
a motion for a restrictive order. This motion alleged
"a reasonable lik[e]lihood of prejudicial news which
would make difficult, if not impossible, the impaneling of
an impartial jury and tend to prevent a fair trial should
the defendant be bound over to trial in the District Court
if testimony of witnesses at the preliminary hearing is

1320

OCTOBER TERM, 1975
Opinion in Chambers

423 U. S.

reported to the public." The defense joined in the
prosecution's request, and also moved that the preliminary hearing be closed to the public and the press.
Refusing the latter request, the County Court held
an open preliminary hearing on October 22. On that
day it bound the accused over to the District Court. It,
however, did issue a protective order. The court found
that there was "a reasonable likelihood of prejudicial
news which would make difficult, if not impossible, the
impaneling of an impartial jury." The court then
ordered that no party to the action, no attorney connected with the defense or prosecution, no judicial officer
or employee, and no witness or "any other person present
in Court" was to "release or authorize the release for
public dissemination in any form or manner whatsoever
any testimony given or evidence adduced during the
preliminary hearing." It went on to order that no "news
media disseminate any information concerning this matter apart from the preliminary hearing other than as
set forth in the Nebraska Bar-Press Guidelines for Disclosure and Reporting of Information Relating to
Imminent or Pending Criminal Litigation." Excepted,
however, were (1) factual statements of the accused's
name, age, residence, occupation, and family status;
(2) the circumstances of the arrest (time and place,
identity of the arresting and investigating officers and
agencies, and the length of the investigation); (3) the
nature, substance and text of the charge; (4) quotations
from, or any reference without comment to, public
records or communications theretofore disseminated to the
public; (5) the scheduling and result of any stage of the
judicial proceeding held in open court; (6) a request
for assistance in obtaining evidence; and (7) a request
for assistance in obtaining the names of possible witnesses. The court also ordered that a copy of the pre-

NEBRASKA PRESS ASSN. v. STUART
1319

Opinion in Chambers

liminary hearing proceedings was to be made available
to the public at the expiration of the order.
A copy of the Bar-Press Guidelines was attached to
the court's order and was incorporated in it by reference.
In their preamble the Guidelines are described as a
"voluntary code." They speak of what is "generally"
appropriate or inappropriate for the press to disclose
or report. The identity of the defendant, and also the
victim, may be reported, along with biographical information about them. The circumstances of the arrest
may be disclosed, as may the evidence against the defendant, "if, in view of the time and other circumstances,
such disclosure and reporting are not likely to interfere
with a fair trial." Confessions or other statements of the
accused may not be disclosed, unless they have been made
"to representatives of the news media or to the public."
Also barred from disclosure are opinions as to the guilt
of the accused, predictions of the outcome of trial, results of examinations and tests, statements concerning
the anticipated testimony of witnesses, and statements
made in court but out of the presence of the jury "which,
if reported, would likely interfere with a fair trial." The
media are instructed by the Guidelines that the reporting
of an accused's prior criminal record "should be considered very carefully" and "should generally be avoided."
Photographs are permissible provided they do not "deliberately pose a person in custody."
The applicants forthwith applied to the District Court
of Lincoln County for vacation of the County Court's
order. The defense, in turn, moved for continuation of
the order and that all future proceedings in the case be
closed. The respondent, as judge of the District Court,
granted a motion by the applicants to intervene in the
case. On October 27 he terminated the County Court's
order and substituted his own. By its order of that

OCTOBER TERM, 1975
Opinion in Chambers

423 U. S.

date the District Court found that "there is a clear and
present danger that pre-trial publicity could impinge
upon the defendant's right to a fair trial." It ordered
that the pretrial publicity in the case be in accord with
the above-mentioned Guidelines as "clarified by the
court." The clarification provisions were to the effect
that the trial of the case commences when a jury is impaneled and that all reporting prior to that event would
be pretrial publicity; that it appeared that the defendant
had made a statement or confession "and it is inappropriate to report the existence of such statement or the
contents of it"; that it appeared that the defendant may
have made statements against interest to three named
persons and may have left a note; that "the nature
of such statements, or the fact that such statements were
made, or the nature of the testimony of these witnesses
with reference to such statements in the preliminary
hearing will not be reported"; that the testimony of the
pathologist witness "dealing with technical subjects, tests
or investigations performed or the results thereof, or his
opinions or conclusions as a result of such tests or investigations will not be reported"; that "the identity of the
person or persons allegedly sexually assaulted or the details of any alleged assault by the defendant will not be
reported"; that the "exact nature of the limitations of
publicity as entered by this order will not be reported,"
that is to say, "the fact of the entering of this order
limiting pre-trial publicity and the adoption of the
Bar-Press Guidelines may be reported, but specific reference to confessions, statements against interest, witnesses
or type of evidence to which this order will apply will
not be reported."
The applicants then sought from the District Court a
stay of its order. Not receiving relief there, they applied
to the Supreme Court of Nebraska for an immediate

NEBRASKA PRESS ASSN. v. STUART
1319

Opinion in Chambers

stay and also for leave to commence an original action
in the nature of mandamus and/or prohibition to vacate
the District Court order of October 27. On November 4,
counsel for the applicants was advised by the Clerk of
the Supreme Court that under that court's rules "all
motions must be noticed for a day certain when the
court is regularly in session," and that the "next date
for submission of such a matter will be Monday, December 1, 1975, and I suggest that your motion be noticed
for that date."
On November 5, the applicants, reciting that the "District Court and the Nebraska Supreme Court have declined to act on the requested relief," filed with this
Court, directed to me as Circuit Justice, the present application for stay of the order of the District Court in
and for Lincoln County, Neb. Because of the obvious importance of the issue and the need for immediate
action, and because of the apparent similarity of the
facts to those that confronted MR. JUSTICE POWELL as
Circuit Justice, in the case of Times-Picayune Pub. Corp.
v. Schulingkamp, 419 U. S. 1301 (1974), I asked for
prompt responses. That request has been honored and
responses respectively were received on November 10 and
11 from the Attorney General of Nebraska on behalf of
the respondent judge, from the Lincoln County attorney
on behalf of the State, and from counsel for the accused.
I was advised yesterday, however, that on November
10 the Supreme Court of Nebraska issued a per curiam
statement reciting that the applicants have petitioned
that court for leave to file their petition for a writ of
mandamus or other appropriate relief with respect to the
District Court order of October 27, and further reciting
that during that court's "consideration of the application and the request for stay of the order, we are reliably
informed that the relators have filed with the Supreme

1324

OCTOBER TERM, 1975
Opinion in Chambers

423 U. S.

Court of the United States an application or a request
that that court act to accomplish the same purposes to
be accomplished by their request to us to exercise our
original jurisdiction," and then providing:
"The existence of the two concurrent applications
could put this court in the position of exercising
parallel jurisdiction with the Supreme Court of the
United States. We deem this inadvisable. Accordingly, the matter is continued until the Supreme
Court of the United States has made known whether
or not it will accept jurisdiction in the matter."
The issue raised is one that centers upon cherished
First and Fourteenth Amendment values. Just as MR.
JUSTICE POWELL observed in Times-Picayune, 419 U. S.,

at 1305, the case "presents a fundamental confrontation
between the competing values of free press and fair trial,
with significant public and private interests balanced on
both sides." The order in question obviously imposes
significant prior restraints on media reporting. It therefore comes to me "'bearing a heavy presumption against
its constitutional validity.'" New York Times Co. v.
United States, 403 U. S 713, 714 (1971). But we have
also observed that the media may be prohibited from
publishing information about trials if the restriction is
"necessary to assure a defendant a fair trial before an
impartial tribunal." Branzburg v. Hayes, 408 U. S.665,
685 (1972). See Times-Picayune Pub. Corp. v. Schulingkamp, 419 U. S., at 1307; Newspapers, Inc. v. Blackwell, 421 U. S. 997 (1975).
It is apparent, therefore, that if no action on the
applicants' application to the Supreme Court of Nebraska could be anticipated before December 1, as the
above-described communication from that court's clerk
intimated, a definitive decision by the State's highest

NEBRASKA PRESS ASSN. v. STUART
1319

1325

Opinion in Chambers

court on an issue of profound constitutional implications,
demanding immediate resolution, would be delayed for
a period so long that the very day-by-day duration of
that delay would constitute and aggravate a deprival of
such constitutional rights, if any, that the applicants
possess and may properly assert. Under those circumstances, I would not hesitate promptly to act.
It appears to me, however, from the Nebraska court's
per curiam statement that it was already considering the
applicants' application and request for stay that had
been submitted to that tribunal. That court deferred
decision, it says, because of the pendency of the
similar application before me, and because it deemed
inadvisable simultaneous consideration of the respective applications in Nebraska and here in Washington.
Accordingly, the matter was "continued" until it was
known whether I would act.
It is highly desirable, of course, that the issue, concerning, as it does, an order by a Nebraska state court,
should be decided in the first instance by the Supreme
Court of Nebraska, and that the pendency of the application before me should not be deemed to stultify that
court in the performance of its appropriate constitutional
duty. The application, after all, was submitted to me
on the assumption that action by the Nebraska court
would not be forthcoming until after a submission to
be scheduled no earlier than December 1 and on the
further assumption that the District Court's order satisfied the requirements of 28 U. S. C. ยง 1257. On the
expectation, which I think is now clear and appropriate
for me to have, that the Supreme Court of Nebraska,
forthwith and without delay will entertain the applicants' application made to it, and will promptly decide
it in the full consciousness that "time is of the essence,"

1326

OCTOBER TERM, 1975
Opinion in Chambers

423 U. S.

I hereby give the Supreme Court of Nebraska that
assurance it desired that, at least for the immediate
present, I neither issue nor finally deny a stay on the
papers before me. My inaction, of course, is without
prejudice to the applicants to reapply to me should
prompt action not be forthcoming.

