SMITH v. UNITED STATES

1303

Opinion in Chambers

SMITH

ET AL.

V. UNITED STATES ET AL.

ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-230.

Decided September 11, 1975

Application for stay of District Court's order that the files and
records of the federal grand jury that indicted applicants be
turned over to a state prosecutor contemplating state prosecution of applicants, is granted pending appeal. There are substantial questions whether (1) the state prosecutor's claimed need
for such materials meets the "compelling necessity" standard for
disclosure set forth in Fed. Rule Crim. Proc. 6 (e), since, inter
alia, it is likely that applicants cannot be prosecuted at all under
California's double jeopardy provision, (2) the turnover order
would nullify the immunity granted to certain federal grand jury
witnesses, (3) such order should include illegally seized evidence,
and (4) double jeopardy might preclude state prosecution.

MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, Circuit Justice.

Substantial questions may be raised under both the
Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure and the Constitution whenever an order is made requiring that the files
and records of a federal grand jury be turned over to a
state prosecutor. Such an order was entered in this case
by the District Court. The Court of Appeals for the
Ninth Circuit denied a motion to stay the order pending
appeal; however, a motions panel of that court granted
an emergency stay so that the matter might be presented to me. I have now heard oral argument in
Yakima, Wash., and I have concluded that I should issue
the stay.
In 1973 and 1974 a federal grand jury in the Southern
District of California conducted a lengthy investigation
into the affairs of United States National Bank. This
investigation resulted in multicount indictments against
both applicants. On June 12, 1975, the federal case was

OCTOBER TERM, 1975
Opinion in Chambers

423 U. S.

concluded when applicants entered pleas of nolo contendere and were sentenced. On August 7, the District
Attorney for San Diego County filed a motion in Federal
District Court seeking the files and records of the grand
jury. That motion, which was opposed by the applicants, has led to the present proceeding.
In a long line of cases the Supreme Court has reaffirmed the "long-established policy that maintains the
secrecy of the grand jury proceedings in the federal
courts," United States v. Procter & Gamble Co., 356 U. S.
677, 681 (1958). See, e. g., Dennis v. United States, 384
U. S. 855 (1966); Pittsburgh Plate Glass Co. v. United
States, 360 U. S. 395 (1959). Although the Court has
affirmed the power of district courts under Fed. Rule
Crim. Proc. 6 (e) to order disclosure of evidence presented to grand juries, that Rule has been interpreted
to require a showing of "particularized need" or "compelling necessity." See, e. g., Pittsburgh Plate Glass
Co., supra, at 400. It is a substantial question whether
the need cited by the state prosecutor in this case is
great enough to justify breach of the grand jury's
deliberations. The state prosecutor contends, first,
that the grand jury materials will save the State substantial investigatory and prosecutorial resources and,
second, that the materials will be generally useful in
refreshing the memories of witnesses who appeared before
the grand jury. However, it is doubtful whether either
of these reasons-which will always be present whenever
a State conducts an investigation following a similar
one by a federal grand jury-meets the "compelling
necessity" standard of Rule 6 (e).
The prosecutor also points out that the California statute of limitations, which is three years for most felonies,
see Cal. Penal Code § 800 (1970 and Supp. 1975), will bar
prosecution of applicants sometime in 1976. The collapse

SMITH v. UNITED STATES
1303

1305

Opinion in Chambers

of United States National Bank, and presumably the termination of any crimes that applicants may have committed, occurred on October 18, 1973. The prosecutor
thus argues that the imminent running of the statute of
limitations justifies the turnover order. The collapse of
the bank, however, and the initiation of the federal
investigation were well publicized. Yet the prosecutor
chose to do nothing. Surely a state prosecutor may not
demonstrate "compelling necessity" by a state of affairs
that his own tardiness has brought about.
Finally, there is a serious question whether applicants
can be prosecuted at all under California law. California Penal Code § 656 (1970) forbids prosecution for
"act[s] or omission [s]" for which the accused has already
stood trial under the laws of "another State, Government,
or country." See also Cal. Penal Code §§ 793, 794 (1970).
The California Supreme Court has held that a previous
federal prosecution acts as a bar, under § 656, to subsequent state prosecution. People v. Belcher, 11 Cal. 3d
91, 520 P. 2d 385 (1974).
It seems likely that a
plea of nolo contendere would be considered the same
for § 656 purposes as a plea of guilty. See, e. g.,
North Carolina v. Alford, 400 U. S. 25, 35, and n. 8
(1970). Moreover, the state prosecutor, in his declaration to the District Court, virtually conceded that the
California crimes that applicants may have committed
are state equivalents to the federal crimes charged in the
federal indictment. It is a serious question whether
prosecution would thus be based upon the same "act or
omission" as the crimes upon which applicants pleaded
nolo contendere and would thereby be barred under § 656.
A substantial question arises whether the requisite showing of need under Rule 6 (e) is satisfied when a state
prosecution cannot, under state law, result in conviction.
If the moving parties had been witnesses before the

1306

OCTOBER TERM, 1975
Opinion in Chambers

423 U. S.

federal grand jury, serious questions involving the SelfIncrimination Clause of the Fifth Amendment would be
involved. No such issue is presented here as to applicants, because they did not testify before the grand jury.
Other persons, however, who testified before the grand
jury, were granted immunity. Immunity once granted
in a federal proceeding may not be nullified by a turnover
order obtained by a state prosecutor. Murphy v. Waterfront Comm'n, 378 U. S. 52 (1964).
The District Court, moreover, might have granted
motions to suppress evidence that had been obtained by the grand jury, and if that occurred, it is
difficult to see how motions that were won before the
District Court can be lost at the instance of the state
prosecutor. This Court has held that a witness before
a grand jury may not refuse to answer questions on the
ground that they are based upon evidence obtained in
violation of the Fourth Amendment. United States v.
Calandra,414 U. S. 338 (1974). However, from the fact
that a grand jury may use illegally seized evidence, it does
not follow that the evidence may in turn be given to a
state prosecutor. Calandrawas based upon the marginal
deterrent value that application of the exclusionary rule
to grand jury proceedings would have upon illegal police
activity. Id., at 351. In addition, the Court found that
application of the exclusionary rule would hinder and
disrupt grand jury proceedings. Id., at 349. Neither
of those reasons has much force in this case. First, there
are no grand jury proceedings to disrupt. Second, a
turnover of illegally seized evidence may undermine the
deterrent effect of the exclusionary rule to a greater extent than contemplated in Calandra. Finally, Calandra
cannot be read as approving illegal seizures of evidence.
The only question before the Court was whether a potentially disruptive challenge to the seizure of evidence

SMITH v. UNITED STATES
1303

Opinion in Chambers

would lie during grand jury proceedings. After a trial
court has ruled that evidence was, in fact, the product of
unconstitutional police activity, there is no excuse for the
continued use of the evidence. There apparently is
such a question of illegally seized evidence in this case,
although the record before me does not show precisely
what the evidence suppressed was and how relevant it
might be to the state as well as to the federal charges.
It would seem to be a substantial question whether a
turnover order should include such evidence.*
Double jeopardy might also preclude state prosecution. That kind of objection may, in time, be resolved
upon an appropriate motion before state tribunals. I
mention the matter because the Double Jeopardy Clause
of the Fifth Amendment was held applicable to the
States in Benton v. Maryland, 395 U. S. 784 (1969).
Benton may cast doubt upon the continuing vitality of
Bartkus v. Illinois, 359 U. S. 121 (1959), which found
that successive state and federal prosecutions upon substantially similar charges do not violate the Double
Jeopardy Clause. See also Abbate v. United States, 359
U. S.187 (1959).
It was suggested at oral argument that applicants'
lawless actions can be curbed only by denying them
legal refuge. Yet all constitutional guarantees extend
both to rich and poor alike, to those with notorious
reputations, as well as to those who are models of
upright citizenship. No regime under the rule of law
.*It was suggested that applicants should seek relief from any
oppressive aspects of the turnover order by appropriate motions

in the state courts. It seems apparent, however, that even a cursory examination of the federal grand jury materials would likely
give the state prosecutor "leads" to information that would result
in a permanent loss to applicants of the value of the secrecy of
the grand jury proceedings.

1308

OCTOBER TERM, 1975
Opinion in Chambers

423 U. S.

could comport with constitutional standards that drew

such distinctions.
I do not, of course, pass on the merits of the turnover
order, which is presently before the Court of Appeals.
Yet these questions seem to me to be so substantial that
I have decided to issue the stay. It will remain in effect
until the Court of Appeals decides the merits.

