CHAMBER OF COMMERCE v. LEGAL AID SOCIETY 1309
Opinion in Chambers

CHAMBER OF COMMERCE OF THE UNITED
STATES v. LEGAL AID SOCIETY OF
ALAMEDA COUNTY ET AL.
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-233.

Decided September 29, 1975

In the course of an action to compel federal officials to comply with
Executive Order No. 11246 (which requires Government contractors to ensure nondiscriminatory employment practices), the
District Court entered an order requiring the General Services
Administration (GSA) to disclose information reporting on affirmative-action programs and related matters filed with the GSA
by Government contractors represented by the applicant. Applicant sought a stay of that order after having been denied a
stay by the Court of Appeals. Even though there is a substantial
question whether the information is privileged by virtue of § 709
(e) of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the application must be
denied because applicant has failed to show that the irreparable
injury which allegedly would result from disclosure is imminent.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, Circuit Justice.

This application for stay of the discovery order by the
District Court seemed to me, when I studied it at Goose
Prairie, Wash., to present a series of very important and
new questions under the Freedom of Information Act,
5 U. S. C. § 552, for which guidelines would be desirable.
Thus I was initially disposed to issue the stay so that
in due course new guidelines could be established. But
the questions presented involved so many complexities
that I felt the application should be put down for oral
argument so that all parties could be heard.
The Legal Aid Society of Alameda County, Cal., is
suing various federal officials in Federal District Court,
seeking mandamus to remedy alleged noncompliance
with Executive Order No. 11246, 30 Fed. Reg. 12319

1310

OCTOBER TERM, 1975
Opinion in Chambers

423 U. S.

(1965), as amended, 3 CFR 169 (1964). That Order requires employers holding contracts with the Federal Government to ensure nondiscriminatory employment practices through affirmative-action programs. Applicant, the
United States Chamber of Commerce, has been permitted
by the District Court to intervene on behalf of various
contractors with the Federal Government. Pursuant to
a Legal Aid request, the District Court ordered disclosure
by the General Services Administration (GSA) of information filed with it by the various contractors, Legal Aid
Society v. Brennan, No. C-73-0282 (ND Cal., filed
Mar. 26, 1975). The information comprises ethnic composition reports (EEO-1), affirmative-action program
reports (AAP), and compliance review reports (CRR).
Applicant's petition for a stay of the District Court's
discovery order was denied by the Ninth Circuit without
opinion, Legal Aid Society v. Brennan, Civ. No. 75-1870
(filed Aug. 4, 1975), as was its petition for rehearing and
suggestion for rehearing en banc, Legal Aid Society v.
Brennan, supra (filed Sept. 2,1975).
In the District Court's opinion below, much is made
of the policy of the Freedom of Information Act which
requires access to official agency information. The GSA
here is willing to disclose the requested information.
But, as the District Court also observed: "[T] he production here sought is not pursuant to the Act, but part of a
legitimate discovery effort by plaintiffs. . . . The only
legitimate objections one could raise to preclude discovery are, under Fed. R. Civ. P. 26 (c), claims of privilege."
While I agree with the District Court's analysis of the
posture of Legal Aid's request for information, I part
company with the court when it neglects consideration of
the existence of a privilege against discovery protecting
those whom the applicant represents. While the Freedom
of Information Act creates no privileges, Verrazzano

CHAMBER OF COMMERCE v. LEGAL AID SOCIETY 1311
1309

Opinion in Chambers

Trading Corp. v. United States, 349 F. Supp. 1401 (Cust.
1972), neither does it diminish those existing.
In my mind, a substantial question exists as to whether
the parties represented by the applicant enjoy a privilege
as to the information contained in the EEO-I's, AAP's,
and CRR's. The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) is authorized to obtain the information
contained in these reports, under §§ 709 (c) and (d) of
the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 78 Stat. 263, as amended,
42 U. S. C. §H 2000e-8 (c) and (d) (1970 ed., Supp. III).
However, § 709 (e) of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42
U. S. C. § 2000e-8 (e), provides in part:
"It shall be unlawful for any officer or employee of
the Commission to make public in any manner
whatever any information obtained by the Commission pursuant to its authority under this section
prior to the institution of any proceeding under this
subchapter involving such information."
Accordingly, information contained in the EEO-I's, the
AAP's, and the CRR's, which are prepared from the
EEO-I's, is arguably protected from disclosure by § 709
(e). See H. Kessler & Co. v. EEOC, 472 F. 2d 1147,
1152, 1153 (CA5 1973) (en banc) (majority and dissenting opinions).
To be sure, the information in the AAP's and the
EEO-I's in this case was not obtained directly by the
EEOC. Rather, the information was apparently collected by a Joint Reporting Committee of both the
EEOC and the federal compliance agency (in this case,
GSA) under Executive Order No. 11246. But the information in the EEO-1's was obtained, in part, on behalf of the EEOC, see 41 CFR § 60-1.7 (a)(1), and
much of the information contained in the AAP's is essentially in the nature of that protected by § 709. Compare 41 CFR pt. 60-2 with 42 U. S. C. § 2000e-8 (c)
(1970 ed., Supp. III). Indeed, certain policy considera-

OCTOBER TERM, 1975
Opinion in Chambers

423 U. S.

tions underlying the regulations precluding release by
the GSA of information contained in the AAP's are akin
to those motivating the confidentiality implemented by
§ 709. Compare 41 CFR § 60-40.3 (a) (5) with H. Kessler & Co., supra, at 1150. In view of the foregoing,
though some of the information involved here neither was
obtained, nor is to be disclosed, by the EEOC, the congressional purpose of confidentiality, protected by criminal sanctions, is not to be lightly circumvented.
Despite these questions on the merits, there is
the further question whether interim relief is necessary.
Applicant will not suffer irreparable injury from disclosure of the documents because the District Court has
entered a protective order permitting only attorneys for
the Legal Aid Society to examine the assertedly privileged documents. Only one of the reasons advanced by
the applicant may justify granting a stay despite the District Court's protective order, and it is meritless. Applicant contends that disclosure of the materials will enable
Legal Aid to compel the GSA, by litigation, to conduct
reviews for compliance with Executive Order No. 11246.
This in turn will result in ineligibility of the affected contractors for federal contracts pending GSA review, an
asserted denial of due process because the affected contractors will have no opportunity to defend the adequacy
of their affirmative-action programs in the litigation
between the GSA and Legal Aid. Applicant also asserts
that this denial of due process causes the contractors irreparable injury. Apart from other serious difficulties
with this argument, it is enough to note that the claimed
irreparable injury is far from imminent since the GSA
has yet to indicate that it will undertake a compliance
review and the District Court has entered no order to
that effect. Since applicant fails to show any imminent
harm, on further study and consideration, I have decided to deny the stay.

