NEBRASKA PRESS ASSN. v. STUART
Opinion in Chambers

NEBRASKA PRESS ASSN. ET AL. V. STUART, JUDGE
ON REAPPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-426.

Decided November 20, 1975

1. A Circuit Justice has jurisdiction to act upon a State's highest
court's decision that an apparently unconstitutional restraint of
the press imposed by a trial court's order should remain in effect
pending review thereof, the Circuit Justice having deferred action
on an application for a stay of such order pending the State's
highest court's prompt decision thereon, and a reasonable time
in which to review such restraint having passed.
2. Reapplication by news media for stay of a state-court order restricting news coverage of alleged murders and criminal proceedings in prosecution thereof, is granted as to the portions of such
order (a) incorporating the media's voluntary guidelines for reporting such news, (b) prohibiting the reporting of the details
of the crimes, of the victims' identities, and of the pathologist's
testimony at the open preliminary hearing, and (c) restricting
the reporting of the limitations on publicity imposed by the order,
but only to the extent the publicity itself is now permitted. Stay
is not granted as to restraints on publication prior to trial of certain facts that strongly implicate an accused, such as a confession,
and the stay granted here does not affect those portions of the
order governing the taking of photographs and other media activity in the courthouse; nor does it bar the trial judge from restricting what the parties and officers of the court may say to
any media representative.

Circuit Justice.
An application for stay of the order dated October 27,
1975, of the District Court of Lincoln County, Neb., resulted in my issuance of an in-chambers opinion, as Circuit Justice, on November 13. In that opinion I indicated
that the issue raised is one that centers upon cherished
First and Fourteenth Amendment values; that the challenged state-court order obviously imposes significant
prior restraints on media reporting; that it therefore
MR. JUSTICE BLACKMUN,

OCTOBER TERM, 1975
Opinion in Chambers

423 U. S.

came to me " 'bearing a heavy presumption against its
constitutional validity,'" New York Times Co. v. United
States, 403 U. S. 713, 714 (1971); that if no action on
the application to the Supreme Court of Nebraska could
be anticipated before December 1, there would be a delay
"for a period so long that the very day-by-day duration
of that delay would constitute and aggravate a deprival
of such constitutional rights, if any, that the applicants
possess and may properly assert"; that, however, it was
highly desirable that the issue should be decided in the
first instance by the Supreme Court of Nebraska; and
that "the pendency of the application before me should
not be deemed to stultify that court in the performance
of its appropriate constitutional duty." I stated my expectation that the Supreme Court of Nebraska would
entertain, "forthwith and without delay," the application
pending before it, and would "promptly decide it in the
full consciousness that 'time is of the essence.' " I refrained from either issuing or finally denying a stay on
the papers before me. That, however, was without
prejudice to 'the applicants to reapply to me should
prompt action not be forthcoming. The applicants have
now renewed their application for a stay.
One full week has elapsed since my in-chambers opinion
was filed. No action has been taken by the Supreme
Court of Nebraska during that week. The clerk of that
court has stated, however, that the applicants have been
allowed to docket their original application by way of
mandamus to stay the order of the District Court of
Lincoln County, and that the matter is set for hearing
before the Supreme Court of Nebraska on November 25.
Whether the Nebraska court will reach a definitive
decision on November 25, or very shortly thereafter, I
do not know. Obviously at least 12 days will have
elapsed, without action, since the filing of my in-chambers

NEBRASKA PRESS ASSN. v. STUART
1327

1329

Opinion in Chambers

opinion, and more than four weeks since the entry of the
District Court's restrictive order. I have concluded that
this exceeds tolerable limits. Accordingly, subject to
further order of this Court, and subject to such refining action as the Supreme Court of Nebraska may
ultimately take on the application pending before it,
I issue a partial stay.
A question is initially raised as to my power and jurisdiction to grant a stay. As a single Justice, I clearly
have the authority to grant a stay of a state court's
"final judgment or decree" that is subject to review by
this Court on writ of certiorari. 28 U. S. C. §§ 2101 (f)
and 1257 (3). Respondents to the application for a stay
have objected that there is no such "final judgment or
decree" upon which I may act. The issue is not without
difficulty, for the Supreme Court of Nebraska gives promise of reviewing the District Court's decision, and in
that sense the lower court's judgment is not one of the
State's highest court, nor is its decision the final one in
the matter. Where, however, a direct prior restraint is
imposed upon the reporting of news by the media, each
passing day may constitute a separate and cognizable
infringement of the First Amendment. The suppressed
information grows older. Other events crowd upon it.
To this extent, any First Amendment infringement that
occurs with each passing day is irreparable. By deferring action until November 25, and possibly later, the
Supreme Court of Nebraska has decided, and, so far as
the intervening days are concerned, has finally decided,
that this restraint on the media will persist. In this
sense, delay itself is a final decision. I need not now
hold that in any area outside that of prior restraint on
the press, such delay would warrant a stay or even be a
violation of federal rights. Yet neither can I accept
that this Court, or any individual Justice thereof, is

1330

OCTOBER TERM, 1975
Opinion in Chambers

423 U. S.

powerless to act upon the failure of a State's highest
court to lift what appears to be, at least in part, an
unconstitutional restraint of the press. When a reasonable time in which to review the restraint has passed,
as here, we may properly regard the state court as having
finally decided that the restraint should remain in effect
during the period of delay. I therefore conclude that
I have jurisdiction to act upon that state-court decision.
I shall not repeat the facts of the case. They were
set forth in my in-chambers opinion of November 13.
Neither shall I pause again to elaborate on this Court's
acute sensitivity to the vital and conflicting interests
that are at stake here. There is no easy accommodation
of those interests, and it certainly is not a task that one
prefers to take up without the benefit of the participation of all Members of the Court. Still, the likelihood
of irreparable injury to First Amendment interests requires me to act. When such irreparable injury is
threatened, and it appears that there is a significant
possibility that this Court would grant plenary review
and reverse, at least in part, the lower court's decision,
a stay may issue. Times-Picayune Pub. Corp. v. Schulingkamp, 419 U. S. 1301, 1305 (1974).
Taking this
approach to the facts before me, I grant the requested
stay to the following extent:
1. The most troublesome aspect of the District Court's
restrictive order is its wholesale incorporation of the
Nebraska Bar-Press Guidelines for Disclosure and Reporting of Information Relating to Imminent or Pending
Criminal Litigation. Without rehearsing the description
of those Guidelines set forth in my prior opinion, it is
evident that they constitute a "voluntary code" which
was not intended to be mandatory. Indeed, the word
"guidelines" itself so indicates. They are merely suggestive and, accordingly, are necessarily vague. To cite

NEBRASKA PRESS ASSN. v. STUART
1327

Opinion in Chambers

only one example, they state that the publication of an
accused's criminal record "should be considered very
carefully" and "should generally be avoided." These
phrases do not provide the substance of a permissible
court order in the First Amendment area. If a member of the press is to go to jail for reporting news in
violation of a court order, it is essential that he disobey
a more definite and precise command than one that he
consider his act "very carefully." Other parts of the
incorporated Guidelines are less vague and indefinite. I
find them on the whole, however, sufficiently riddled with
vague and indefinite admonitions-understandably so in
view of the basic nature of "guidelines"-that I have
concluded that the best and momentary course is to stay
their mandatory and wholesale imposition in the present
context. The state courts, nonetheless, are free forthwith to reimpose particular provisions included in the
Guidelines so long as they are deemed pertinent to the
facts of this particular case and so long as they are adequately specific and in keeping with the remainder of
this order. That portion of the restrictive order that
generally incorporates the Guidelines is hereby stayed.
2. No persuasive justification has been advanced for
those parts of the restrictive order that prohibit the
reporting of the details of the crimes, of the identities
of the victims, or of the testimony of the pathologist at
the preliminary hearing that was open to the public.
See Cox BroadcastingCorp. v. Cohn, 420 U. S. 469, 487497 (1975). These facts in themselves do not implicate
a particular putative defendant. To be sure, the publication of the facts may disturb the community in which
the crimes took place and in which the accused, presumably, is to be tried. And their public knowledge may
serve to strengthen the resolve of citizens, when so
informed, who will be the accused's prospective jurors,

1332

OCTOBER TERM, 1975
Opinion in Chambers

423 U. S.

that someone should be convicted for the offenses. But
until the bare facts concerning the crimes are related
to a particular accused, it does not seem to me that their
being reported in the media irreparably infringes the
accused's right to a fair trial of the issue as to whether
he was the one who committed the crimes. There is no
necessary implication of the person, who has been named
as the accused, in the facts suppressed by paragraphs 4
and 5 of the District Court's restrictive order, and to
that extent the order is hereby stayed.
3. At the same time I cannot, and do not, at least on
an application for a stay and at this distance, impose a
prohibition upon the Nebraska courts from placing any
restrictions at all upon what the media may report prior
to trial. Restraints of this kind are not necessarily and
in all cases invalid. See Branzburg v. Hayes, 408 U. S.
665, 685 (1972); Times-Picayune Pub. Corp. v. Schulingkamp, 419 U. S., at 1307; Newspapers, Inc. v. Blackwell, 421 U. S. 997 (1975). I am particularly conscious
of the fact that the District Court's order applies only
to the period prior to the impaneling, and presumably
the sequestration, of a jury at the forthcoming trial.
Most of our cases protecting the press from restrictions
on what they may report concern the trial phase of the
criminal prosecution, a time when the jurors and witnesses can be otherwise shielded from prejudicial publicity, and also a time when both sides are being heard.
See, e. g., Craig v. Harney, 331 U. S. 367 (1947); Pennekamp v. Florida, 328 U. S. 331 (1946); Bridges v. California, 314 U. S. 252 (1941). Restrictions limited to
pretrial publicity may delay media coverage-and, as I
have said, delay itself may be impermissible-but at
least they do no more than that.
I therefore conclude that certain facts that strongly
implicate an accused may be restrained from publication

NEBRASKA PRESS ASSN. v. STUART
1327

Opinion in Chambers

by the media prior to his trial. A confession or statement against interest is the paradigm. See Rideau v.
Louisiana, 373 U. S. 723 (1963); Irvin v. Dowd, 366
U. S. 717 (1961). A prospective juror who has read or
heard of the confession or statement repeatedly in the
news may well be unable to form an independent judgment as to guilt or innocence from the evidence adduced
at trial. In the present case, there may be other facts
that are strongly implicative of the accused, as, for
example, those associated with the circumstances of his
arrest. There also may be facts that are not necessarily
implicative, but that are highly prejudicial, as, for example, facts associated with the accused's criminal record,
if he has one. Certain statements as to the accused's
guilt by those associated with the prosecution might also
be prejudicial. There is no litmus paper test available.
Yet some accommodation of the conflicting interests
must be reached. The governing principle is that the
press, in general, is to be free and unrestrained and that
the facts are presumed to be in the public domain. The
accused, and the prosecution if it joins him, bears the
burden of showing that publicizing particular facts will
irreparably impair the ability of those exposed to them
to reach an independent and impartial judgment as to
guilt. Of course, if a change of venue will not allow
the selection of a jury that will have been beyond the
reach of the expected publicity, that also is a factor.
4. Paragraph 6 of the restrictive order also prohibits
disclosure of the "exact nature of the limitations" that
it imposes on publicity. Since some of those limitations
are hereby stayed, the restrictions on the reporting of
those limitations are stayed to the same extent. Inasmuch as there is no point in prohibiting the reporting
of a confession if it may be reported that one has been
made but may not be spoken of, the provision in para-

OCTOBER TERM, 1975
Opinion in Chambers

423 U. S.

graph 6 that the restriction on reporting confessions may
itself not be disclosed is not stayed.
5. To the extent, if any, that the District Court's
order prohibits the repoiting of the pending application to the Supreme Court of Nebraska, and to the
extent, if any, that the order prohibits the reporting of
the facts of the filing of my in-chambers opinion of November 13, or of this opinion (other than those parts of
the opinions that include facts properly suppressed), the
restrictive order is also stayed.
6. Nothing herein affects those portions of the restrictive order governing the taking of photographs and
other media activity in the Lincoln County courthouse.
Neither is it to be deemed as barring what the District
Judge may impose by way of restriction on what the
parties and officers of the court may say to any representative of the media.
The District Court and the Supreme Court of Nebraska obviously are closer than I am to the facts of
the crimes, to the pressures that attend them, and to the
consequences of community opinion that have arisen
since the commission of the offenses. The Supreme
Court of Nebraska, accordingly, is in a better position to
evaluate the details of the restrictive order. It may well
conclude that other portions of that order are also to be
stayed or vacated. I have touched only upon what appear to me to be the most obvious features that require
resolution immediately and without one moment's further
delay.

