WHALEN v. ROE
Opinion in Chambers

WHALEN, COMMISSIONER OF HEALTH OF
NEW YORK v. ROE ET AL.
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-368.

Decided October 28, 1975

Application for stay of a three-judge District Court's judgment
declaring unconstitutional provisions of New York Public Health
Law requiring names and addresses of patients receiving certain
prescription drugs to be reported to applicant Commissioner of
Health, and enjoining enforcement of those provisions and acceptance of incoming prescriptions disclosing patients' identities, is
denied, no showing having been made that applicant would suffer
irreparable injury as a result of the denial of a stay.
See: 403 F. Supp. 931.

Circuit Justice.
This is an application for a stay of the judgment of
a three-judge court sitting in the Southern District of
New York. The applicant, the Commissioner of Health
of the State of New York, has been enjoined by the
three-judge court from enforcing certain provisions of
New York's Public Health Law (Law). Respondents
are various physicians, organizations of physicians,
and patients in the State of New York who successfully
brought suit to have those provisions declared
unconstitutional.
The provisions at stake are those parts of §§ 3331 (6),
3332 (2)(a), and 3334 (4) of the Law (Supp. 1974) that
require the name and address of each patient receiving a
Schedule II controlled substance to be reported to the
applicant. Schedule II drugs are those that have a high
potential for abuse, but also have an accepted medical
use. They include opiates and amphetamines. Under
the Law, a doctor prescribing a Schedule II drug does so
on a special serially numbered triplicate prescription
MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL,

1314

OCTOBER TERM, 1975
Opinion in Chambers

423 U. S.

form. One copy is retained by the doctor, a second goes
to the pharmacist (if applicable), and the last copy goes
to the applicant, who transfers the data, including the
name and address of the patient, from the prescription
to a centralized computer file.
Respondents brought this action shortly after the
effective date of the computerization program, alleging
violations of their constitutional rights under 42 U. S. C.
§ 1983 and grounding jurisdiction on 28 U. S. C. § 1343
(3). Specifically, respondents claimed that mandatory
disclosure of the name of a patient receiving Schedule
II drugs violated the patient's right of privacy and interfered with the doctor's right to prescribe treatment for
his patient solely on the basis of medical considerations.
A three-judge court was convened. Roe v. Ingraham,
480 F. 2d 102 (CA2 1973).
At trial, various respondents testified that they were
inhibited from using or prescribing Schedule II drugs
they otherwise found beneficial because of a reluctance
to disclose their or their patients' identities to the State.
While questioning respondents' standing to sue, the applicant asserted that knowledge of patients' names was
necessary to enable the computer system to detect drug
abuse. When put to its proof by respondents, however,
the applicant eventually conceded that the names and
addresses of patients were useful in detecting only one
abuse: patients who go from doctor to doctor (using the
same name on each visit) in order to obtain an excessive
supply of drugs. Thereupon respondents showed that in
15 months of operation the computer system had located
only one suspected "doctor-shopper" while processing
over 125,000 prescriptions per month. Thus respondents
contended that the centralization of patients' names and
addresses served no compelling state interest sufficient
to offset the asserted invasion of privacy.

WHALEN v. ROE
1313

1315

Opinion in Chambers

The three-judge court accepted respondents' arguments. The court read our decisions in Roe v. Wade,
410 U. S. 113 (1973), and Doe v. Bolton, 410 U. S. 179
(1973), as placing the doctor-patient relationship among
those zones of privacy accorded constitutional protection.
While noting that Roe and Doe concerned the most intimate of personal relations, sexual intimacy and the decision to bear a child, the court refused to hold the
doctor-patient relationship constitutionally protected
only when matters of childbearing were at stake.
Rather, it noted the intimate nature of a patient's concern about his bodily ills and the medication he takes,
and held that these matters, too, are protected by the
constitutional right to privacy. While reaching this
conclusion primarily on the basis of Roe and Doe, the
court drew some support from the concurring and dissenting opinions in California Bankers Assn. v. Shultz,
416 U. S. 21, 78 (1974) (POWELL, J., concurring); id., at
79 (DouGLAS, J., dissenting); id., at 91 (BRENNAN, J.,
dissenting); id., at 93 (MARSHALL, J., dissenting); which
it read as indicating that a majority of this Court would
accord constitutional protection, at least against a wholesale reporting requirement, to all "intimate areas of an
individual's personal affairs." Id., at 78 (POWELL, J.,
concurring). Upon finding that respondents had a protected privacy interest in the medication they received,
the court balanced that interest against the State's need
for patients' names, and concluded that, with one suspect
uncovered over 15 months, the need shown was ephemeral.
"The diminution of a constitutionally guaranteed freedom
is too great a price to pay for such a small governmental
yield." Roe v. Ingraham, 403 F. Supp. 931, 937 (SDNY
1975) (footnote omitted).
Finding those portions of the Law that demanded disclosure of patients' names and addresses to the State to

1316

OCTOBER TERM, 1975
Opinion in Chambers

423 U. S.

be unconstitutional on the facts, the court enjoined the
State from enforcing those provisions and from accepting
for filing prescriptions or other documents disclosing the
identities of patients receiving Schedule II drugs. The
court also ordered the destruction of any name-bearing
prescription forms in the State's possession and the expungement of names from all computer records. The
court stayed the destruction and expungement order
pending disposition of the case by this Court; it refused,
however, to stay its declaration of unconstitutionality
and its injunction against enforcement of the provisions
and acceptance of incoming prescriptions.
Thus the application for stay now before me concerns
only those matters the District Court refused to stay.
The principles that govern a Circuit Justice's inchambers review of stay applications are well known. A
single Justice will grant a stay only in extraordinary circumstances. Certainly the judgment of the lower court,
which has considered the matter at length and close at
hand, and has found against the applicant both on the
merits and on the need for a stay, is presumptively correct. To prevail here the applicant must meet a heavy
burden of showing not only. that the judgment of the
lower court was erroneous on the merits, but also that
the applicant will suffer irreparable injury if the judgment is not stayed pending his appeal.
MR. JUSTICE POWELL has succinctly stated the considerations pertinent to evaluating these two factors:
"As a threshold consideration, Justices of this

Court have consistently required that there be a
reasonable probability that four members of the
Court will consider the issue sufficiently meritorious
to grant certiorari or to note probable jurisdiction.
See Mahan v. Howell, 404 U. S.1201, 1202; Organized Village of Kake v. Egan, 80 S.Ct. 33, 4 L. Ed.

WHALEN v. ROE
1313

Opinion in Chambers

2d 34 (1959). Of equal importance in cases presented on direct appeal-where we lack the discretionary power to refuse to decide the merits-is the
related question whether five Justices are likely to
conclude that the case was erroneously decided
below. Justices have also weighed heavily the fact
that the lower court refused to stay its order pending appeal, indicating that it was not sufficiently
persuaded of the existence of potentially irreparable
harm as a result of enforcement of its judgment in
the interim." Graves v. Barnes, 405 U. S. 1201,
1203-1204 (1972) (POWELL, J., in chambers).
See also Aberdeen & Rockfish R. Co. v. SCRAP, 409
U. S.1207, 1218 (1972) (BURGER, C. J., in chambers);
Railway Express Agency v. United States, 82 S.Ct. 466,
468, 7 L. Ed. 2d 432, 434 (1962) (Harlan, J., in chambers); United Fuel Gas Co. v. Public Service Comm'n,
278 U. S.322, 326 (1929).
Applying these standards to the application before me,
I conclude a stay should not be granted. The threejudge court gave careful consideration to applicant's motion for a stay and, indeed, granted one insofar as it
deemed necessary to prevent irreparable harm to applicant's interests. Applicant has shown nothing to persuade me the lower court erred. If applicant's position
is sustained on appeal, all the data it is precluded from
processing by the District Court's order will be readily
available from the State's doctors and pharmacists, who
are required by law to retain the complete prescription
form for five years. The information now denied the
State's computers can thus be located and tabulated at
a later date. While the State may suffer delay in the
complete implementation of its computerization program,
delay alone is not, on these facts, irreparable injury.
I conclude that applicant would suffer no irreparable

OCTOBER TERM, 1975
Opinion in Chambers

423 U. S.

injury if a stay is denied. This conclusion necessarily
decides the application and renders unnecessary consideration of the possibility, since this case involves an
appeal as of right, that applicant will be able to convince
five Justices to reverse the three-judge court. I do note,
however, that the right to privacy is a sensitive and developing area of the law and that the three-judge court
did not apply it in a manner plainly inconsistent with
our decisions. Likewise, the court's conclusion that respondents had standing seems in accord with the liberal
standing decisions of this Court. Of course, this conclusion and my denial of a stay on the papers now before me are not to be taken as a reflection of my views on
the merits of this case, or as an indication of the ultimate
disposition of the case in this Court.
The application is denied.

