PASADENA BOARD OF EDUCATION v. SPANGLER

1335

Opinion in Chambers

PASADENA CITY BOARD OF EDUCATION

ET AL. V.

SPANGLER ET AL.
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-538.

Decided December 22, 1975

Application to stay, pending disposition of appeal by Court of
Appeals, the District Court's order enjoining applicant school
board members' creation of a "fundamental school" is granted,
where certiorari has been granted in applicants' related petition
presenting the issue whether the District Court still had control
over the unitary school system which has been in compliance
with that court's desegregation decree for four years.

Circuit Justice.
Applicants, members of the Pasadena City Board of
Education, have presented to me as Circuit Justice a request to stay an order entered by the United States District Court for the Central District of California pending
disposition of their appeal to the Court of Appeals for the
Ninth Circuit. After two interim stays by single judges
of the Court of Appeals, a panel of that court denied a
further stay on December 2, 1975, but ordered expedited
argument.
The District Court, in its ruling which applicants seek
to stay, overturned applicants' action in establishing one
of two "fundamental schools" in the summer of 1975. It
ruled that the burden was on applicants to prove that
their action did not result in resegregation. Finding that
applicants had not met this burden, the court enjoined
the creation of the new school and ordered its students
returned to their previously assigned classrooms. The
result of the District Court's order and the subsequent
stay rulings of the Court of Appeals is that if I decline to
stay the order there will be at least some disruption of
the school system in the middle of a school year.
MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST,

OCTOBER TERM, 1975
Opinion in Chambers

423 J. S.

Ordinarily a stay application to a Circuit Justice on a
matter currently before a court of appeals is rarely
granted, and were it not for the fact that this Court on
November 11, 1975, granted certiorari on a related petition of applicants, PasadenaCity Board of Education v.
Spangler, No. 75-164, ante, p. 945, I would deny this apoplication. But one of the issues presented in No. 75-164,
is whether "a unitary school system which has been in
compliance with a school desegregation decree for four
years remain[s] subject indefinitely to the control of the
trial court which entered the decree." In my opinion,
should this Court reverse or significantly modify the conclusion of the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit
with respect to the above-quoted "question presented" in
No. 75-164, there would be serious doubt as to the correctness of the order of the District Court which applicants now seek to stay.
Because under my analysis the critical event will not
be the decision of the Court of Appeals on applicants'
presently pending appeal, but rather the disposition by
this Court of No. 75-164, IT Is ORDERED that the
order of the District Court in this case entered on October 8, 1975, is stayed pending disposition of No. 75-164 by
this Court.
Application granted.

