CALIFORNIA

EX REL.

STATE LANDS COMM'N v. U. S.

273

Syllabus

CALIFORNIA EX REL. STATE LANDS COMMISSION v.

UNITED STATES
ON CROSS-MOTIONS FOR JUDGMENT
No. 89, Orig.

Argued March 29, 1982-Decided June 18, 1982

Held: The United States, not California, has title to oceanfront land created through accretion, resulting from construction of a jetty, to land
owned by the United States on the coast of California. Pp. 278-288.
(a) A dispute over accretions to oceanfront land where title rests with
or was derived from the Federal Government is to be determined by federal law. Hughes v. Washington, 389 U. S. 290; Wilson v. Omaha Indian Tribe, 442 U. S. 653. Under federal law, accretion, whatever its
cause, belongs to the upland owner. Pp. 278-283.
(b) This is not a case where, as a matter of choice of law, state law
should be borrowed and applied as the federal rule for deciding the substantive legal issue. Congress addressed the issue of accretions to federal land in the Submerged Lands Act, which vested title in the States to
the lands underlying the territorial sea and confirmed the title of the
States to the tidelands up to the line of mean high tide, but which in § 5
withheld from the grant to the States all "accretions" to coastal lands acquired or reserved by the United States. In light of this latter provision, borrowing for federal-law purposes a state rule that would divest
federal ownership is foreclosed. Moreover, this is not a case in which
federal common law must be created, since it has long been settled under
federal law that the right to future accretions is an inherent and essential
attribute of the littoral or riparian owner. Pp. 283-285.
(c) Only land underneath inland waters was included in the initial
grant to the States under the equal-footing doctrine, United States v.
California,332 U. S. 19, and hence California cannot properly claim that
title to the land in question here was vested in the State by that doctrine
and confirmed by the Submerged Lands Act. The latter Act was a constitutional exercise of Congress' power to dispose of federal property and
"did not impair the validity" of the United States v. Californiadecision,
United States v. Louisiana, 363 U. S. 1, 7, 20. To accept California's argument would require rejecting not only Hughes, supra, but also
the established federal rule that accretions belong to the upland owner.
Pp. 285-286.
(d) Section 2(a)(3) of the Submerged Lands Act, defining "lands beneath navigable waters" that fall within the Act's general grant to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1981
Syllabus

457 U. S.

States as including all "made" lands that formerly were lands beneath
navigable water, does not apply to the gradual process by which sand
accumulated along the shore, although caused by a jetty. To the extent
that accretions are to be considered "made" land, they would fall within
the reservation by the United States in the Act of "all lands filled in,
built up, or otherwise reclaimed by the United States for its own use."
In any event, § 5(a) of the Act expressly withholds from the grant to
the States all "accretions" to lands reserved by the United States.
Pp. 286-288.
(e) Section 3(a) of the Submerged Lands Act, confirming the title of
persons who, on June 5, 1950, were entitled to lands beneath navigable
water "under the law of the respective states in which the land is located," means nothing more than that state law determines the proper
beneficiary of the grant of land under the Act. Federal law determines
the scope of the grant under the Act in the first instance. P. 288.
The United States' motion for judgment on the pleadings granted.
WHITE, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which BURGER, C. J.,
and BRENNAN, MARSHALL, BLACKMUN, and POWELL, JJ., joined.
REHNQUIST, J., filed an opinion concurring in the judgment, in which STEVENS and O'CONNOR, JJ., joined, post, p. 288.

Bruce S. Flushman, Deputy Attorney General of California, argued the cause for plaintiff. With him on the briefs
were George Deukmejian, Attorney General, N. Gregory
Taylor, Assistant Attorney General, and Dennis M. Eagan
and PatriciaSheehan Peterson, Deputy Attorneys General.
Deputy Solicitor General Claiborne argued the cause for
the United States. With him on the briefs were Solicitor General Lee, Assistant Attorney General Dinkins, and
Michael W. Reed.*
*A brief of amici curiae was filed for the State of Washington et al. by
Kenneth 0. Eikenberry, Attorney General of Washington, Malachy R.
Murphy, Deputy Attorney General, and Robert C. Hargreaves, Assistant
Attorney General; Charles A. Graddick, Attorney General of Alabama,
and Sarah M. Spratling, Assistant Attorney General; Wilson L. Condon,
Attorney General of Alaska, and G. Thomas Koester, Assistant Attorney
General; Robert K. Corbin, Attorney General of Arizona, and Anthony B.
Ching, Solicitor General; Tany S. Hong, Attorney General of Hawaii, and
Johnson H. Wong, Deputy Attorney General; Jeff Bingaman, Attorney

CALIFORNIA
273

EX REL.

STATE LANDS COMM'N v. U. S.

275

Opinion of the Court

delivered the opinion of the Court.
The issue before the Court is the ownership of oceanfront
land created through accretion to land owned by the United
States on the coast of California. The decision turns on
whether federal or state law governs the issue.
JUSTICE WHITE

I
From the time of California's admission to the Union in
1850, the United States owned the upland on the north side of
the entrance channel to Humboldt Bay, Cal. In 1859 and
1871, the Secretary of the Interior ordered that certain of
these lands, which fronted on the Pacific Ocean, the channel,
and Humboldt Bay be reserved from public sale. 1 Since that
time the land has been continuously possessed by the United
States and used as a Coast Guard Reservation. The Pacific
shoreline along the Coast Guard site remained substantially
unchanged until near the turn of the century when the United
States began construction of two jetties at the entrance to
Humboldt Bay.2 The jetty constructed on the north side of
the entrance resulted in fairly rapid accretion on the ocean
side of the Coast Guard Reservation, so that formerly submerged lands became uplands.' One hundred and eightyGeneral of New Mexico, and J. Scott Hall, Special Assistant Attorney General; and Dave Frohnmayer, Attorney General of Oregon, and Peter Herman, Senior Assistant Attorney General.
'Secretarial Order, December 27, 1859; Secretarial Order, August 19,
1871. See Exhibit C to Exhibits in Support of California's Motion for
Leave to File Complaint.
'Construction of the jetties commenced on the South Spit in 1889 and on
the North Spit in 1890. U. S. Army Corps of Engineers, San Francisco
District, Survey Report on Humboldt Bay, California, App. I, Shoreline
Changes 2-3, 8-9 (Feb. 10, 1950), Exhibit D (hereafter cited as Corps Report). The north jetty was a massive work, having a total length of 7,500

feet.
IThe United States and California agree that the seaward shift of the
shoreline was caused by the construction of the jetties. A study by the
Army Corps of Engineers found:

OCTOBER TERM, 1981
Opinion of the Court

457 U. S.

four acres of upland were created by the seaward movement
of the ordinary high-water mark. This land, which remains
barren save for a watchtower, is the subject of the dispute in
this case.
The controversy arose in 1977 when the Coast Guard applied for permission from California to use this land to construct the watchtower.4 At this time it became evident that
both California and the United States asserted ownership of
the land. The United States eventually built the watchtower without obtaining California's permission.5 Invoking
our original jurisdiction, California then filed this suit to
"With the inauguration of jetty construction in 1890, there began a series of
interruptions in normal littoral transport [of sand]. With each increment
in length of the jetties the [Humboldt] bar was pushed seaward. Consequent decrease in offshore depths caused the shore to advance on each side
of the inlet." Id., at 8, 21.
After jetty construction,
"... the Humboldt bar ... shifted and reformed seaward of its 1870 position, and the ocean high-water shore line along the north spit ... shifted
seaward. The seaward advance of the north spit shore line was most pronounced upon reconstruction of the north jetty in 1917." Id., at 9, 25.
' California does not contend that, having applied for a state permit, the
United States is estopped from asserting its claim to ownership of the disputed land. Tr. of Oral Arg. 5-6. Such an argument is foreclosed by
United States v. California,332 U. S. 19, 39-40 (1947) (footnote omitted):
"[O]fficers who have no authority at all to dispose of Government property
cannot by their conduct cause the Government to lose its valuable rights by
their acquiescence, laches, or failure to act." See also United States v.
City and County of San Francisco, 310 U. S. 16, 31-32 (1940); Utah v.
United States, 284 U. S. 534, 545-546 (1932).
5
1In May 1978, California transmitted a proposed permit to the United
States to allow construction of the watchtower. See Corps Report, Exhibit F. A few days later, the Bureau of Land Management of the Department of the Interior formally advised the Coast Guard and the California
Commission that the United States claimed the disputed acreage as accretion. Letter of June 5, 1978, attached to Corps Report, Exhibit G. The
proposed permit was never executed.

CALIFORNIA
273

EX REL.

STATE LANDS COMM'N v. U. S.

277

Opinion of the Court

quiet title to the subject land.' We granted leave for California to file a bill of complaint. 454 U. S.809 (1981).
California alleges that upon its admission to the Union on
September 9, 1850, Act of Sept. 9, 1850, 9 Stat. 452, and by
confirmation in the Submerged Lands Act, 67 Stat. 29, 43
U. S. C. § 1301 et seq., California became vested with absolute title to the tidelands and the submerged lands upon
which, after construction of the jetties, alluvion was deposited, resulting in formation of the subject land. Because the
accretion formed on sovereign state land, California maintains that its law should govern ownership. Under California law, a distinction is drawn between accretive changes to a
boundary caused by natural forces and boundary changes
caused by the construction of artificial objects. For natural
accretive changes, the upland boundary moves seaward as
the alluvion is deposited, resulting in a benefit to the upland
owner. Los Angeles v. Anderson, 206 Cal. 662, 667, 275 P.
789, 791 (1929). When accretion is caused by construction of
artificial works, however, the boundary does not move but
becomes fixed at the ordinary high-water mark at the time
the artificial influence is introduced. Carpenter v. Santa
Monica, 63 Cal. App. 2d 772, 794, 147 P. 2d 964, 975 (1944).
It is not disputed that the newly formed land in controversy
was created by the construction of the jetty. Therefore, if
state law governs, California would prevail.
'Disputes between a State and the United States over ownership of
property are fully within our original jurisdiction over cases in "Which a
State shall be Party," Art. III, § 2, cl. 2. Although our jurisdiction over
this matter is concurrent with that of the district courts, Californiav. Arizona, 440 U. S.59, 65 (1979); 28 U. S. C. § 1251(b)(2), we have previously
indicated that coastal boundary disputes are appropriately brought as original actions in this Court. United States v. Alaska, 422 U. S. 184, 186,
n. 2 (1975).
The United States has waived its immunity to suit in actions brought
against it to quiet title to land. 28 U. S. C. § 1346(f). See California v.
Arizona, supra, at 65-68.

OCTOBER TERM, 1981
Opinion of the Court

457 U. S.

By its answer, and supporting memoranda, the United
States contends that the formerly submerged lands were
never owned by California before passage of the Submerged
Lands Act in 1953, and that the disputed land was not
granted to California by the Act. The United States also
submits that the case is governed by federal rather than state
law and that under long-established federal law, accretion,
whatever its cause, belongs to the upland owner. Jones v.
Johnston, 18 How. 150, 156 (1856); County of St. Clair v.
Lovingston, 23 Wall. 46, 66 (1874); Jefferis v. East Omaha
Land Co., 134 U. S. 178, 189-193 (1890); Beaver v. United
States, 350 F. 2d 4, 10-11 (CA9 1965). 7 If such federal law
controls, title to the deposited land vested in the United
States as the accretions formed.
Recognizing that the choice-of-law issue was clearly
drawn, California moved for summary judgment and the
United States moved for judgment on the pleadings. No essential facts being in dispute, a special master was not appointed and the case was briefed and argued. We conclude
that federal law governs the decision in this case and that the
land in dispute is owned by the United States.
II
In Borax Consolidated, Ltd. v. Los Angeles, 296 U. S. 10
(1935), the city filed suit to quiet its title to land claimed to be
tideland and to belong to the city by virtue of a grant from
the State. The defendant claimed by virtue of a patent from
the United States issued after California entered the Union.
In an opinion by Chief Justice Hughes, and with a single dis7
California's claim that Wilson v. Omaha Indian Tribe, 442 U. S. 653,
672 (1979), determined that there was no "federal common law" of accretion and avulsion, is a misunderstanding of that decision. We said only
that "[t]he federal law applied in boundary cases . . . does not necessarily
furnish the appropriate rules to govern" a case not involving a boundary
dispute. Too much is also read into dictum in Oregon ex rel. State Land
Board v. Corvallis Sand & Gravel Co., 429 U. S. 363, 380-381, n. 8 (1977),
taking issue with the dissent's meaning of the term "federal common law."

CALIFORNIA
273

EX REL.

STATE LANDS COMM'N v. U. S.

279

Opinion of the Court

sent, the Court held that if the land in question was tideland,
the title passed to California at the time of her admission to
the Union in 1850; that it remained to be determined whether
the land at issue was tideland; and that this issue was "necessarily a federal question" controlled by federal law. The
Court said:
"Petitioners claim under a federal patent which, according to the plat, purported to convey land bordering on
the Pacific Ocean. There is no question that the United
States was free to convey the upland, and the patent affords no ground for holding that it did not convey all the
title that the United States had in the premises. The
question as to the extent of this federal grant, that is, as
to the limit of the land conveyed, or the boundary between the upland and the tideland, is necessarily a federal question. It is a question which concerns the validity and effect of an act done by the United States; it
involves the ascertainment of the essential basis of a
right asserted under federal law. Packer v. Bird, 137
U. S. 661, 669, 670; Brewer-Elliott Oil Co. v. United
States, 260 U. S. 77, 87; United States v. Holt Bank, 270
U. S. 49, 55, 56; United States v. Utah, 283 U. S. 64, 75.
Rights and interests in the tideland, which is subject to
the sovereignty of the State, are matters of local law.
Barney v. Keokuk, 94 U. S. 324, 338; Shively v. Bowlby,
[152 U. S. 1,] 40; Hardin v. Jordan, 140 U. S. 371, 382;
Port of Seattle v. Oregon & Washington R. Co., 255
U. S. 56, 63." Borax Consolidated, Ltd. v. Los Angeles, supra, at 22.
The Court went on to hold that tidelands extend to the mean
high-water line, which the Court then defined as a matter of
federal law.
There was no question of accretions to the shoreline of the
property involved in Borax. But some 30 years later,
Mrs. Stella Hughes, the successor in interest to the owner of
oceanfront property patented by the United States prior to

OCTOBER TERM, 1981
Opinion of the Court

457 U. S.

the entry of the State of Washington into the Union, sued the
State seeking to quiet her title to accretions that had become
attached to her land and that had caused a seaward movement of the shoreline. Under Washington law, the accretions belonged to the State, the owner of the tidelands, and
Mrs. Hughes would no longer own property fronting on the
ocean. Under federal law accretions are the property of the
upland owner. The trial court found that federal law applied. The Washington Supreme Court reversed, holding
that Washington law applied and that the State owned any
land that accreted after statehood. Hughes v. State, 67
Wash. 2d. 799, 410 P. 2d 20 (1966).
We in turn reversed, reaffirming the decision in Borax that
federal law determined the boundary between state-owned
tidelands and property granted under a federal patent and
holding that the same law applied to determine the boundary
between state-owned tidelands and oceanfront property
where accretions had extended the shoreline seaward.
Hughes v. Washington, 389 U. S. 290 (1967).1 The justification for employing federal law was the special nature of the
coastal boundary question: "The rule deals with waters that
lap both the lands of the State and the boundaries of the international sea. This relationship, at this particular point of
the marginal sea, is too close to the vital interest of the Nation in its own boundaries to allow it to be governed by any
law but the 'supreme Law of the Land."' Id., at 293. We
went on to decide that under federal law, the federal grantee
of the uplands had the right to the accumulated accretions.
Except for the fact that in the present case the upland to
which the accretions attached has always been owned by the
United States, this case and Hughes are similarly situated.
I All participating Justices joined except Justice Stewart, who concurred
on grounds that the State's claim to the property constituted a taking without compensation. He rejected the majority's application of federal law to
the question. JUSTICE MARSHALL took no part in the case.

CALIFORNIA
273

EX REL.

STATE LANDS COMM'N v. U. S.

281

Opinion of the Court

Unless Hughes is to be overruled, judgment must be entered
for the United States.
California urges that for all intents and purposes Hughes
has already been eviscerated by Oregon ex rel. State Land
Board v. Corvallis Sand & Gravel Co., 429 U. S. 363 (1977).
Corvallisinvolved a dispute between the State of Oregon and
an Oregon corporation over the ownership of land that became part of a riverbed because of avulsive changes in the
river's course. The Oregon Court of Appeals affirmed the
trial court's award of the land to the corporation because that
was the result dictated by federal common law, which, under
Bonelli Cattle Co. v. Arizona, 414 U. S. 313 (1973), was the
proper source of law. A majority of this Court reversed,
overruling Bonelli and holding that the disputed ownership
of the riverbed should be decided solely as a matter of Oregon
law. Bonelli's error was said to have been reliance on the
equal-footing doctrine as a source of federal common law.9
Once the equal-footing doctrine had vested title to the riverbed in Arizona, "it did not operate after that date to determine what effect on titles the movement of the river might
have." 429 U. S., at 371. State, rather than federal law,
should have been applied.
California urges that in rejecting Bonelli and holding that
disputes about the title to lands granted by the United States
are to be settled by state law, the Court also rejected Hughes
since that case involved land that had been patented by the
United States to private owners. We do not agree. Corvallis itself recognized that federal law would continue to apply
if "there were present some other principle of federal law
requiring state law to be displaced." 429 U. S., at 371. For
example, the effects of accretive and avulsive changes in the
'The equal-footing principle holds that all States admitted to the Union
possess the same rights and sovereignty as the original 13 States. Pollard's Lessee v. Hagan, 3 How. 212, 229 (1845); Shively v. Bowlby, 152
U. S. 1, 26, 30 (1894).

OCTOBER TERM, 1981
Opinion of the Court

457 U. S.

course of a navigable stream forming an interstate boundary
is determined by federal law. Id., at 375. The Corvallis
opinion also recognized that Bonelli did not rest upon Hughes
and that the Hughes Court considered oceanfront property
"sufficiently different ... so as to justify a 'federal common
law' rule of riparian proprietorship." 429 U. S., at 377, n. 6.
The Corvallis decision did not purport to disturb Hughes.
Wilson v. Omaha Indian Tribe, 442 U. S. 653 (1979), made
clear that Corvallis also does not apply "where the [United
States] Government has never parted with title and its interest in the property continues." 442 U. S., at 670.10 The dispute in Corvallis was between the State and a private owner
of land previously in federal possession. In contrast, the riparian owner in Wilson was the United States, holding reservation land in trust for the Omaha Indian Tribe. The issue
was the effect of accretive or avulsive changes in the course
of a navigable stream. State boundaries were not involved.
What we said in Wilson is at least equally applicable here
where the United States has held title to, occupied, and utilized the littoral land for over 100 years: "[T]he general rule
recognized by Corvallis does not oust federal law in this case.
Here, we are not dealing with land titles merely derived from
a federal grant, but with land with respect to which the
United States has never yielded title or terminated its interest." 442 U. S., at 670.
" 0The majority opinion in Corvallis appears to recognize that its rule
does not extend to land remaining in federal hands:
"'We hold the true principle to be this, that whenever the question in any
Court, state or federal, is, whether a title to land which had once been property of the United States has passed, that question must be resolved by the
laws of the United States; but that whenever, according to these laws, the
title shall have passed, then that property, like all other property in the
state, is subject to state legislation; so far as that legislation is consistent
with the admission that the title passed and vested according to the laws of
the United States.'" 429 U. S., at 377 (quoting Wilcox v. Jackson, 13
Pet. 498, 517 (1839); emphasis added by Corvallis Court).

CALIFORNIA
273

EX REL.

STATE LANDS COMM'N v. U. S.

283

Opinion of the Court

We conclude, based on Hughes v. Washington and Wilson
v. Omaha Indian Tribe, that a dispute over accretions to
oceanfront land where title rests with or was derived from
the Federal Government is to be determined by federal law.
III
Controversies governed by federal law do not inevitably
require resort to uniform federal rules. Wilson v. Omaha
Indian Tribe, supra, at 672. It may be determined as a matter of choice of law that, although federal law should govern
a given question, state law should be borrowed and applied
as the federal rule for deciding the substantive legal issue
at hand. Board of Commissioners of Jackson County v.
United States, 308 U. S. 343 (1939); Royal Indemnity Co. v.
United States, 313 U. S. 289 (1941). This is not such a case.
First, and dispositive in itself, is the fact that Congress has
addressed the issue of accretions to federal land. The Submerged Lands Act, 43 U. S. C. § 1301 et seq., vested title in
the States to the lands underlying the territorial sea, which,
in California's case, extended three miles seaward from the
ordinary low-water line. The Act also confirmed the title of
the States to the tidelands up to the line of mean high tide.
Section 5(a) of the Act, however, withheld from the grant to
the States all "accretions" to coastal lands acquired or reserved by the United States." 43 U. S. C. § 1313(a). In
"In relevant part, § 5(a) of the Act, 62 Stat. 32, 43 U. S. C. § 1313(a),
excepts from the grant to the States
"all tracts or parcels of land together with all accretions thereto, . . . title
to which has been lawfully and expressly acquired by the United States
...and ... all lands expressly retained by or ceded to the United States
when the State entered the Union ......
Although "accretions" are expressly mentioned only in connection with federal "acquired lands," accretions to retained lands should be similarly ex-

cepted from the grant to the States.

Former Solicitor General Cox, in an

opinion approved by the Attorney General, explained:

"There can be no doubt that Congress intended each of the various categories of lands excepted by section 5(a) to include accretions. The terms

OCTOBER TERM, 1981
Opinion of the Court

457 U. S.

light of this provision, borrowing for federal-law purposes a
state rule that would divest federal ownership is foreclosed.
In Wilson, where we did adopt state law as the federal rule,
no special federal concerns, let alone a statutory directive,
required a federal common-law rule.
Moreover, this is not a case in which federal common law
must be created. For over 100 years it has been settled
under federal law that the right to future accretions is an
inherent and essential attribute of the littoral or riparian
owner. New Orleans v. United States, 10 Pet. 662, 717
(1836); County of St. Clair v. Lovingston, 23 Wall., at 68.
"'Almost all jurists and legislators, ...

both ancient and

modern, have agreed that the owner of the land thus bounded
is entitled to these additions."' Jefferis v. East Omaha
Land Co., 134 U. S., at 189, quoting Banks v. Ogden, 2 Wall.
57, 67 (1865). We rejected the invitation to rely on state
law in Hughes, which California readily admits is a case "in
which the facts and issues are essentially identical," Statement in Support of Motion for Leave to File Complaint 16,
and we see no reason at this juncture to adopt California's minority rule on artificial accretions,12 even if we were free to
do so.
of section 5(a) make this clear. The customary rights of landowners are
set forth in full in the first of the several exceptions listed in section 5(a).
Thus, it speaks of 'all tracts or parcels of land together with all accretions
thereto, resources therein, or improvements thereon . . . .' Each of the
other exceptions speaks simply of 'all lands.' Obviously, the more comprehensive word 'lands' was used instead of 'tracts or parcels of land' and
the explicit reference to accretions, resources and improvements was omitted in order to avoid repetition. There is no reasonable basis for any other
conclusion. Congress would not have limited its exceptions of 'all accretions thereto, resources therein, or improvements thereon' to lands 'lawfully and expressly acquired by the United States' from any State or its
grantees and then denied them where the lands were 'expressly retained'
or 'acquired by the United States by eminent domain proceedings, purchase, cession, gift, or otherwise in a proprietary capacity. . . ."' 42 Op.
Atty. Gen. 241, 264 (1963).
12 In United States v. California, 0. T. 1951, No. 6, Orig., California
argued that the "Court should adopt the federal rule that accretions formed

CALIFORNIA EX REL. STATE LANDS COMM'N v. U. S.
273

285

Opinion of the Court

Applying the federal rule that accretions, regardless of
cause, accrue to the upland owner, we conclude that title to
the entire disputed land in issue is vested in the United
States.
IV
Despite Hughes and Wilson, California claims ownership of
the disputed lands because all of the accretions were deposited on tidelands and submerged lands, title to which, California submits, was vested in the State by the equal-footing
doctrine and confirmed by the Submerged Lands Act. But
California's claim to the land underlying the territorial sea
was firmly rejected in United States v. California,332 U. S.
19 (1947), which held that only land underneath inland waters
was included in the initial grant to the States under the
equal-footing doctrine. Furthermore, the Submerged Lands
Act was a constitutional exercise of Congress' power to dispose of federal property, Alabama v. Texas, 347 U. S.272,
273-274 (1954), and "did not impair the validity" of the California decision, United States v. Louisiana, 363 U. S. 1, 7,
20 (1960).13 In any event, whatever the ownership of the
submerged lands, this approach, based as it is on the equalfooting doctrine and the federal statute, is not a claim that
state law should govern but a claim that the historic rule that
accretions belong to the upland owner is wrong and should be
by gradual and imperceptible degrees even though induced by artificial
structures accrue to the owner of the adjoining land." Brief in Relation to
Report of Special Master 90. California suggested "ample reasons why
[the] exceptional California view should not be extended and applied in

determining the boundaries of the marginal sea off California." Id., at 91.
Those reasons included the fact that the California rule is contrary to that
adopted by courts of most other States, that the application of state law
would lead to varying results in different States, and that the California
rule was devised for wholly inapplicable reasons.
"See also Alabama v. Texas, 347 U. S., at 273-274; United States v.
California,381 U. S.139, 145-148 (1965); United States v. Louisiana,389
U. S. 155, 156-157 (1967); Texas Boundary Case, 394 U. S. 1, 2 (1969);
United States v. Maine, 420 U. S. 515, 524-526 (1975); United States v.
Louisiana,446 U. S.253, 256, 268 (1980).

OCTOBER TERM, 1981
Opinion of the Court

457 U. S.

replaced with a rule awarding title to the owner of the land
on which the accretions took place. To accept this submission, however, would require rejecting not only Hughes, but
also the long-established federal rule that accretions belong
to the upland owner-a doctrine consistent with the majority
rule prevailing in the States. See Part III, supra. Indeed,
the proposed rule is also inconsistent with California's own
law that accretions attributable to natural causes belong to
the upland owner. For all these reasons, we refuse the invitation to depart from the long-settled rule.14
Independent of the above analysis, California claims that
the United States expressly surrendered title to the disputed
land through the Submerged Lands Act. California argues
the subject land falls within the general grant to the States of
"lands beneath navigable waters." Section 2(a)(3) of the Act
defines "lands beneath navigable waters" to include "all filled
in, made, or reclaimed lands which formerly were lands beneath navigable waters." 43 U. S. C. § 1301(a)(3). Because
the jetty construction caused fairly rapid accretion, and, but
for the construction of the jetties, the subject land would
have remained submerged, California submits the accretionformed land is "made" land, whose title rests in California by
virtue of the Submerged Lands Act.
14For

the same reasons, we reject California's alternative theory that the

equal-footing doctrine vests title in the State to all lands that ever were
tidelands. California argues that as deposition occurred on submerged
land, these areas went to a tideland phase-vesting title in the Statebefore eventually emerging as uplands. Federal law governs the scope of
title initially vested by the equal-footing doctrine; at most, this argument
suggests a different federal rule should apply to former tidelands. The suggestion has little to recommend it. Even leaving aside the concerns expressed in text, we see no reason for an exceptional rule to apply to land
that once was, but no longer is, tideland. Moreover, implementation of
the rule would require plotting the high- and low-water lines at all intervening times between statehood and the present.

CALIFORNIA
273

EX REL.

STATE LANDS COMM'N v. U. S.

287

Opinion of the Court

We do not read this provision of the Act as applying to the
gradual process by which sand accumulated along the shore,
although caused by a jetty affecting the action of the sea. 5
Moreover, to the extent that the accretions are to be considered "made" land, they would fall within the reservation by
the United States of "all lands filled in, built up, or otherwise
reclaimed by the United States for its own use." This follows from the congressional object to assure each sovereign
the continuing benefit of landfill and like work performed by
each."1 In any event, §5(a) of the Act expressly withholds
from the grant to the States all "accretions" to lands reserved
by the United States, and both California and the United
States agree that the exposure of the formerly submerged
lands in dispute constitutes "accretion." This reading of the
Act adheres to the principle that federal grants are to be construed strictly in favor of the United States. United States
v. Grand River Dam Authority, 363 U. S. 229, 235 (1960);
1"
The word "made" was inserted into the provision in a bill introduced by
Congressman Walter. H. R. 8137, 81st Cong., 2d Sess., § 2(a)(2) (1950).
The Report on that measure describes it as "in substance, the same" as
earlier proposals omitting the term. H. R. Rep. No. 2078, 81st Cong., 2d
Sess., 3 (1950). Throughout Congress' consideration of the bill there was
no comment on the "made" land provision. No Member of either House
ever suggested that § 1301(a)(3) covered accretions that were attributable
to artificial works. Against this background, we find no significance in the
two casual references by Robert Moses and Senator Daniel to naturally
formed accretions as "made." Hearings on S. J. Res. 13 et al. before the
Senate Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs, 83d Cong., 1st Sess.,
158 (1953) (remarks of Robert Moses); id., at 193-194 (remarks of Sen.
Daniel).
"The interpretive opinion rendered by former Solicitor General Cox,
while including naturally formed islands within the "made" language of
§2(a)(3), rejects the suggestion that accretion to the mainland, whether or
not directly attributable to artificial causes, is included in the Submerged
Lands Act grant to the States. 42 Op. Atty. Gen., at 259-265, 266-267.
We express no opinion on the Act's treatment of naturally formed islands in
the marginal sea.

OCTOBER TERM, 1981
REHNQUIST,

J., concurring in judgment

457 U. S.

United States v. Union Pacific R. Co., 353 U. S. 112, 116
(1957).
Finally, California submits that the Act granted title to the
State by confirming the title of persons who, on June 5, 1950,
were entitled to such lands "under the law of the respective States in which the land is located ....

"

43 U. S. C.

§ 1311(a). This provision means nothing more than that
state law determines the proper beneficiary of the grant of
land under the Act; it is clear that federal law determines the
scope of the grant under the Act in the first instance.
V
We reaffirm today that federal law determines the boundary of oceanfront lands owned or patented by the United
States. Applying the federal rule that accretions of whatever cause belong to the upland owner, we find that title to
the disputed parcel rests with the United States. Accordingly, California's motion for summary judgment is denied,
and the United States' motion for judgment on the pleadings
is granted. The parties, or either of them, may, before September 27, 1982, submit a proposed decree to carry this opinion into effect, failing which the Court will prepare and enter
an appropriate decree at the next Term of Court.
It is so ordered.
JUSTICE REHNQUIST,

with whom JUSTICE STEVENS and

join, concurring in the judgment.
I concur in the judgment. I believe that our decision in
Wilson v. Omaha Indian Tribe, 442 U. S. 653 (1979), requires the application of federal common law to resolve this
title dispute between the United States and California, and
that § 5(a) of the Submerged Lands Act indicates the source
of that law.
The dispute in this case concerns the ownership of artificially caused accretions on oceanfront property belonging to
JUSTICE O'CONNOR

CALIFORNIA EX REL. STATE LANDS COMM'N v. U. S.

273

REHNQUIST,

289

J., concurring in judgment

the United States. The dispute centers on the legal effect of
the movement of the "mean high-water mark." That mark
separates the fastlands continuously owned by the United
States from the "tidelands"--the area of partially submerged
lands between the mean high- and low-water marks. California's claim of title to the tidelands is based upon the equalfooting doctrine. Because the tidelands belong to it and because the accretions formed on the tidelands, California
contends that state law applies to resolve this title dispute
between it and the United States. The rule adopted by the
California courts regarding artificially caused accretions holds
that title to accreted land vests with the State rather than
the riparian or littoral owner. The United States contends
that federal common law applies and argues that the federal
common-law rule holds that title to land formed by accretion
vests in the owner of the riparian land.
The dispute in this case is similar to that in Wilson v.
Omaha Indian Tribe. We held in Wilson that federal common law and not state law governs title disputes resulting
from changes in the course of a navigable stream where an
instrumentality of the Federal Government is the riparian
owner. 442 U. S., at 669-671. The rule of Oregon ex rel.
State Land Board v. Corvallis Sand & Gravel Co., 429 U. S.
363 (1977), was distinguished. The Corvallis rule-that
state law governs-applies where the dispute over the legal
effect of a shifting riverbed does not involve claims of title by
a federal instrumentality.
I agree with the Court that the Wilson rule applies to
oceanfront property as well as riverfront property where the
Federal Government is the littoral owner. Wilson should
apply to the movement of the high-water mark along the
ocean in a fashion similar to the way it applies to changes in
the bed of a navigable stream. In the instant case, as in Wilson, it is irrelevant that the accretion, as a geographical
"fact," formed on land within the State's dominion, be it a
river bottom or the ocean tidelands. The fact is that both

OCTOBER TERM, 1981
REHNQUIST,

J., concurring in judgment

457 U. S.

Wilson and the instant case concern title disputes over
changes in the shoreline where the Federal Government
owns land along the shoreline.
In Wilson, we held that state law supplied the applicable
rule of decision even though federal common law applied to
resolve the title dispute. We found no need for a uniform
national rule and no reason why federal interests should not
be treated under the same rules of property that would apply
to private persons. In contrast to Wilson, however, I agree
with the Court that Congress in § 5(a) of the Submerged
Lands Act has supplied the rule of decision. Section 5(a)
withholds from the grant to the States all accretions to
coastal lands acquired or reserved by the United States. I
also agree with the Court that California did not acquire the
disputed lands pursuant to the "made lands" provisions in
§ 2(a)(3).
Consequently, the Court's discussion regarding the continuing vitality of Hughes v. Washington, 389 U. S. 290
(1967), is dicta. Hughes is unnecessary to the resolution of
choice-of-law issues in title disputes between the Federal
Government and a State or private person. Reliance on
Hughes would be necessary only if we were to hold that federal common law, rather than state law, applied in a title dispute between a federal patentee and a State or private persons as to lands fronting an ocean. The instant case does not
present that issue. It is difficult to reconcile Hughes with
Corvallis and we should postpone that endeavor until required to undertake it.
In summary, I think this case can be easily resolved as a
title dispute between the United States and California concerning the legal effect of movement of the Pacific Ocean's
high-water mark. Wilson and the Submerged Lands Act resolve the dispute. The continuing vitality of Hughes should
be left to another day.

