OCTOBER TERM, 1960.
Per Curiam.

365 U. S.

PUGACH v. DOLLINGER, DISTRICT ATTORNEY

OF BRONX COUNTY,

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SECOND

No. 111.

CIRCUIT.

Argued January 16, 1961.-Decided February 27, 1961.

A federal court may not enjoin the use in a criminal trial in a state
court of evidence obtained by wire tapping in violation of § 605 of
the Federal Communications Act. Schwartz v. Texas, 344 U. S.
199; Stejanelli v. Minard, 342 U. S. 117.
277 F. 2d 739, affirmed.

George J. Todaro argued the cause and filed a brief, and
FrancesKahn filed an appearance, for petitioner.
Walter E. Dillon and Irving Anolik argued the cause
for respondents. With them on the brief were Isidore
Dollinger, respondent, pro se, and Alexander E. Scheer.
Briefs of amici curiae, urging affirmance, were filed by
Louis J. Lefkowitz, Attorney General of New York, Paxton Blair, Solicitor General, and Jean M. Coon, Assistant
Attorney General, for the Attorney General of New York,
and by Edward S. Silver and Aaron Nussbaum for the
District Attorneys' Association of New York.
Emanuel Redfield filed a brief for the New York Civil
Liberties Union et al., as amici curiae, urging reversal.
PER CURIAM.

The judgment is affirmed on the authority of Schwartz
v. Texas, 344 U. S. 199, and Stefanelli v. Minard, 342
U. S. 117.
MR.

JUSTICE

BRENNAN

would also affirm but solely on

the authority of Stefanelli v. Minard, 342 U. S. 117.

PUGACH v. DOLLINGER.
458

DOUGLAS,

MR.JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

with whom

THE CHIEF JUSTICE

concurs, dissenting.
In Schwartz v. Texas, 344 U. S. 199, a pawnbroker was
convicted as an accomplice in a robbery. Records of his
telephone conversations, gotten by police eavesdropping,
were admitted in evidence against him during his trial in
the state court. He claimed that such evidence was inadmissible under 47 U. S. C. § 605.1 This Court rejected
that claim without even stopping to see if indeed there
had been a violation of the federal statute. The rationale
of that rejection was that, "Where a state has carefully
legislated so as not to render inadmissible evidence
obtained and sought to be divulged in violation of the laws
of the United States, this Court will not extend by
implication the statute of the United States so as to
invalidate the specific language of the state statute."
Id., 202.
The later decision of this Court in Benanti v. United
States, 355 U. S. 96, swept away that rationale, and
Schwartz v. Texas, supra, today stands alone as an aberration from the otherwise vigorous enforcement this Court
has given to the congressional policy embodied in 47
U. S. C. § 605. For in Benanti, in setting aside a federal
conviction, we held that the proscription of wiretapping
contained in § 605 forbade wiretapping by an authorized
executive officer of the State, acting under the explicit
terms of a state statute and pursuant to a warrant issued
I ". . . and no person not being authorized by the sender shall
intercept any communication and divulge or publish the existence,
contents, substance, purport, effect, or meaning of such intercepted
communication to any person .

. . ."

See Nardone v. United States,

302 U. S. 379; Nardone v. United States, 308 U. S. 338; Weiss v.
United States, 308 U. S. 321; Benanti v. United States, supra; cf.
Goldstein v. United States, 316 U. S. 114; Rathbun v. United States,
355 U. S.107.

OCTOBER TERM, 1960.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

365 U. S.

by the state judiciary. "[K]eeping in mind [the] comprehensive scheme of interstate regulation and the public
policy underlying Section 605 as part of that scheme, we
find that Congress, setting out a prohibition in plain terms,
did not mean to allow state legislation which would contradict that section and that policy." Id., 105-106. It
seems incongruous to me that this sweeping congressional
purpose should now be held to make a detour around the
precincts of a state court. This is especially true where,
as here, officials have shown such an avid taste for violating the law. See Dash, Schwartz and Knowlton, The
Eavesdroppers, pp. 68-69. In such circumstances, redress-other than by an exclusionary rule-against the
criminal acts of those who bear the badge of the law is
neither easy nor generous. Cf. Wolf v. Colorado, 338
U. S. 25, 41, 42-44 (dissenting opinion).
Yet today a majority of this Court summarily holds
that Schwartz v. Texas, supra, is still the law, and petitioner is left only with the consoling knowledge that
Congress meant to protect the privacy of his telephone
conversations,2 while the benefits of the congressional
intendment are denied him.
2

Schwartz v. Texas, supra, stands for no more than a refusal, as a

matter of federal law, to void a conviction said to be based on wiretap evidence. The witness who divulges wire-tap information is no
less guilty of a federal crime. See Schwartz v. Texas, supra, 201.
Nor, after Benanti, does the fact that New York purported to authorize this police wire tap save it from illegality. See In re Telephone
Communications, 9 Misc. 2d 121, 170 N. Y. S. 2d 84; Matter of Interception of Telephone Communications, 23 Misc. 2d 543, 198 N. Y. S.
2d 572. As I indicated in my dissent in Schwartz v. Texas, supra,
205, I am of the opinion that a wire tap is a search within the meaning
of the Fourth Amendment, so that, in the absence of illegality under
§ 605, I would have to consider if the New York wire-tap procedure
meets the constitutional test of reasonableness. But under § 605,
all wire taps are forbidden.

PUGACH v. DOLLINGER.
458

DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

Petitioner is charged, in a New York state court, with
the commission of several serious crimes. His complaint
in the instant proceeding alleged that "on or about June
15th, 1959, and thereafter" agents of the District Attorney
and of the New York police force tapped his telephone
wires pursuant to a state court warrant and "obtained certain information." That information, and other evidence
to which it led, was divulged to the grand jury, which
indicted petitioner, and to the press. But more importantly there was the allegation that the "defendants
intend to use the evidence obtained by use of the aforesaid illegal wire taps and the information obtained
through the illegal use of the aforesaid wire taps upon
the trial" which petitioner imminently faces. The prayer
asked that the defendants be enjoined "'from proceeding . . . upon the indictments . . . on any grounds in
which they may use wire tapping evidence, or on any
grounds or investigations resulting from or instituted as
a result of the aforesaid illegal wire taps."
There is no doubt that, once the wire-tap evidence is
put in during the impending trial, petitioner is without
remedy for the prejudice it does him in that trial, either in
the state courts, People v. Variano, 5 N. Y. 2d 391, 157
N. E. 2d 857, or, under Schwartz v. Texas, supra, in the
federal courts.
In Stefanelli v. Minard, 342 U. S. 117, the petitioner
was charged with a violation of the state gambling
laws. He sought to enjoin the use, at his trial, of evidence obtained by a police invasion of his home, an
invasion admittedly in violation of the command of the
Fourth Amendment. Relief was denied in the exercise
of equitable discretion, three factors being relied on.
First, the petitioner, it was said, could show no irreparable
injury, for, at worst, he would go to jail on the evidence
sought to be suppressed. Second, it was supposed that

OCTOBER TERM, 1960.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

365 U. S.

the federal court was being asked "to intervene piecemeal
to try collateral issues." At 123. Third, and overriding
the first two, was the traditional reluctance of a federal
court to meddle in state court proceedings, and especially
in state court criminal proceedings.
The strongest expression of that reluctance is found in
the general prohibition of federal injunctions "to stay
proceedings in a State court." 28 U. S. C. § 2283.
Although that provision bars an injunction operating on
a party, after commencement of the state court proceedings, as well as an injunction directly against the state
court, Harkrader v. Wadley, 172 U. S. 148; Ex parte
Young, 209 U. S. 123, 161-162, it is not directly involved
here. Here the thrust of the relief is only to enjoin the
use of wire-tap evidence, not to enjoin the action itself.
Hence there is no bar to maintaining the action. Cf. Rea
v. United States, 350 U. S. 214. Where, as here, the
relief sought is the adjudication of collateral matters
which cannot be adjudicated in the state proceedings
under state law, there is no occasion to invoke the statute.
"That provision is an historical mechanism (Act of March
2, 1793, 1 Stat. 334, 335) for achieving harmony in one
phase of our complicated federalism by avoiding needless
friction between two systems of courts having potential
jurisdiction over the same subject-matter." Hale v.
Bimco Trading Co., 306 U. S. 375, 378. (Emphasis
added.) Hence I do not reach the questions that would
be raised if we had before us the alternative of enjoining
the state action or withholding all relief.
328
U. S. C. § 2283 provides for three classes of exception: (1) as
expressly authorized by Act of Congress, (2) where necessary in aid of
jurisdiction, and (3) to protect or effectuate its judgments. Cf.
Toucey v. New York Life Ins. Co., 314 U. S. 118. Injunction against
the commencement of state court criminal proceedings has long been
the first line of defense for federally secured rights. As respects
federally secured civil rights see, e. g., Truax v. Raich, 239 U. S. 33;

PUGACH v. DOLLINGER.
458

DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

Can the dangers of allowing this early resort to the
federal court outweigh the wrong of subjecting petitioner
to the risk of conviction and imprisonment on the strength
of criminally obtained and criminally presented evidence?
This is not a case where there is piecemeal resort from one
court to another. This remedy is the only one which is
available to protect a federal right.4 It is not a case where
an appeal is properly delayed, so that the asserted error
may be seen in the context of the whole trial, as no review
at all is available. For the same reason, this is no case
for the exercise of equitable discretion. If the federal
question is not now protected, it can never become the
basis for relief.

The doctrine of equitable discretion properly involves
no more than a choice among remedies, an orderly management of judicial procedures. Doubtless there are
times when equity should leave parties to their remedy
"at law," i. e., to their remedy in the ordinary course of
the threatened proceeding.

But once it is established

Pierce v. Society of Sisters, 268 U. S. 510; Terrace v. Thompson,
263 U. S. 197; Hague v. C. I. 0., 307 U. S. 496; cf. Douglas v.
Jeannette, 319 U. S. 157. As respects federally secured economic
rights see, e. g., Hynes v. Grimes Packing Co., 337 U. S. 86; Cline v.
Frink Dairy Co., 274 U. S. 445; Hygrade Provision Co. v. Sherman,
266 U. S. 497.
4 Judge Clark, dissenting in this case below, said: "In sum it is
beyond dispute that there is a general, indeed universal, custom of
federal law violation. Now this is a distressing situation, made not
less so that in the eyes of many worthy citizens it is required by the
asserted exigencies of successful law administration. But it is not
an unusual situation. For actually it is a clash between federal and
state governmental policies. As such it is a recurring struggle in our
history and quite possibly a necessary one to a federal form of government. In the past we have found ways of meeting and solving
the problem. Of course there are several forms of remedy; but the
one to which there seems continual return when other remedies fail
is the resort to the equity powers of the federal courts to enjoin
repeated violations of the criminal law." 277 F. 2d, at 748-749.
581322 0-61-34

464

OCTOBER TERM, 1960.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

365 U. S.

that the other proceeding offers no remedy, the rationale
of equitable discretion disappears. It becomes no more
than the legal language which clothes the denial of a right
in the guise of a mere procedural decision. Unless and
until Schwartz v. Texas, supra, is overruled, the exercise
of equitable discretion to deny preliminary relief from the
threatened use of wire-tap evidence is wholly unjustified.
Unless and until Schwartz is overruled, the beneficent
effect of § 605 will be stultified by the admission of
tainted evidence in state trials. The privacy of the
individual, history assures us, can never be protected
where its violation by state officers meets with reward
rather than punishment.

