OCTOBER TERM, 1972
Per Curiam and Decree

410 U. S.

MICHIGAN v. OHIO
ON EXCEPTIONS TO SPECIAL MASTER'S REPORT

No. 30, Orig. Argued December 11, 1972Decided and Decree entered February 22, 1973
The Special Master's recommendations fixing that portion of the
Ohio-Michigan boundary running through Lake Erie adopted and
decree issued.

CharlesF. Keeley, Assistant Attorney General of Michigan, argued the cause for plaintiff on exceptions to the
Report of the Special Master. With him on the brief
were Frank J. Kelley, Attorney General, Robert A.
Derengoski, Solicitor General, and Jerome Maslowski,
Assistant Attorney General.
Charles S. Rawlings, Assistant Attorney General of
Ohio, argued the cause for defendant in answer to exceptions to the Report of the Special Master. With him on
the brief was William J. Brown, Attorney General.
and DECREE.
Upon consideration of the Report filed Nov. 9, 1971,
by Senior Judge Albert B. Maris, Special Master, exceptions filed thereto, and argument thereon, it is now
ordered, adjudged, and decreed as follows:
1. The exceptions filed by the State of Michigan to
the report and recommendations of the Special Master
are overruled.
2. The boundary line between the States of Ohio and
Michigan in Lake Erie follows a line drawn from the point
in Maume.e Bay where the north cape of that bay was
located in 1836 on a course having a bearing North 450
East measured from a true meridian, passing over the
center of the existing circular concrete seawall on Turtle
Island and continuing on the same course through the
PER CURIAM

MICHIGAN v. OHIO
420

421

Per Curiam and Decree

lake to the point where it intersects the boundary line
between the United States and Canada.
3. In 1836 the north cape of Maumee Bay was located
at the point in that bay where a line drawn North 870 49'
44" East from Post 71 on the land boundary line between
the States of Ohio and Michigan intersects a line drawn
South 450 West from the center of the existing circular
concrete seawall on Turtle Island, both bearings being
measured from a true meridian.
4. The costs of this suit, including the expenses of the
Special Master, shall be borne by the State of Michigan.

