OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

289 U.S.

matter of construction, inapplicable to contract carriers.

On the question of construction, there appears to be no
authoritative decision.' We have no occasion to consider
that question. For it does not appear that there has been
discrimination against the plaintiff in favor of contract
carriers. Compare Supervisors v. Stanley, 105 U.S. 305,
314.
Affirmed.

GANT

ET AL.

v. OKLAHOMA CITY ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF OKLAHOMA

No. 547.

Argued March 15, 1933.-Decided April 10, 1933

1. Jurisdiction of this Court of an appeal from the final judgment of
a state supreme court sufficiently appears, where the opinion of
that court on a first appeal of the case, from an interlocutoy
judgment, shows that the requisite federal question was raised by
and decided against the appellant, and where the second and final

decision of that court was made upon the authority of the first one.
P. 100.
2. A city ordinance conditioned the right to drill for oil or gas within
the city limits upon the filing of a bond, in the sum of $200,000 for
each well, to secure payment of damages from injuries to any persons or property " resulting from the drilling, operation or mainte-

nance of any well " or structures appurtenant thereto. Held consistent with the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
P. 101.

3. A further requirement that the bond be executed by some bonding
or indemnity company authorized to do business in the State, is
also valid. P. 101.
4. The wisdom and fairness of this requirement were for the city
council to decide, and its conclusion, not being clearly arbitrary or
unreasonable, binds the court. P. 102.
'Compare Act of March 29, 1923, 110 Ohio Laws, pp. 211, 2.12-213;
Hissem v. Guran, 112 Oh. St. 59; 146 N.E. 808; Act of April 11,
1925, 111 Ohio Laws, pp. 512, 513, 515; Motor Freight, Inc. v. Public
Utilities Comm'n, 120 Oh. St. 1; 165 N.E. 355. Following the last
decision, the statute was amended by Act of April 19, 1929, 113 Ohio
Laws, p. 482.

GANT v. OKLAHOMA CITY.
98

Opinion of the Court.

5. An otherwise valid statute or ordinance conferring a privilege, is
not rendered invalid merely because it chances that particular persons find it hard or even impossible to comply with precedent conditions upon which enjoyment of the privilege is made to depend.
P. 102.
150 Okla. 86, 89; 160 id. 62, affirmed.

from the affirmance of a decree denying an injunction against the enforcement of a city ordinance and
granting an injunction against its violation.
APPEAL

Mr. James S. Twyford, with whom Mr. J. H: Everest
was on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Harlan T. Deupree, with whom Mr. W. H. Brown
was on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The bill of complaint alleges that plaintiffs (appellants
here) are lessees of a tract of land in Oklahoma City,
State of Oklahoma, supposed to contain gas and oil; that
by the terms of the lease they are required to commence
drilling a well within a time fixed; that they have contracted for such drilling and the work has been begun
and is now in progressy that they have a permit from the
authorities of the city as required by prdinance, but defendants threaten to and will forcibly stop the work, to
plaintiffs' irreparable damage, unless they execute and
file. a bond conditioned as provided by the city ordinance
in the penal sum of $200,000, signed by some surety company authorized to transact business within the state;
that the ordinance making such requirement is unreasonable and unconstitutional, and if enforced will have the
effect of depriving plaintiffs of valuable property rights
without due process of law. An answer was filed denying
generally the allegations of the bill, and a cross-petition,

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S

praying that plaintiffs be restrained from continuing the
drilling of the well until plaintiffs had executed the bond
required by the ordinance. After a hearing, at which
evidence Was introduced in support of the bill, the trial
court denied plaintiffs' prayer for an injunction and
granted a permanent injunction against them upon the
cross-petition.
The bill does not in terms charge an infringement of
the Fourteenth Amendment or of any other provision of
the federal Constitution; and the"record does not disclose
whether the trial court at any time considered or determined that question. Nor is there anything in the present
record to show, except inferentially, that the federal question was raised by appellants or considered by the supreme
court. A basis for our jurisdiction must be found, if at
all, in the decision and opinion of the state supreme court
upon a prior appeal in the same case from a decree granting an interlocutory injunction. Gat v. Oklahoma City,
150 Okla. 86, 89; 6 P. (2d) 1065. It there appears that
an attack upon the ordinance as infringing the due process
of law clause of the Fourteenth Amendment was argued
before and considered by that court, and the ordinance
dustained as valid under that clause as well as under the
due process clause of the state constitution. An appeal
to this court followed but was dismissed for the want of
jurisdiction, the decree not being final. 284 U.S. 594.
After the remand to the state court of first instance, final
decree on the merits was rendered against appellants.
From that decree an appeal was taken to the state supreme
court, which affirmed on the authority of its prior decision.
160 Okla. 62; 15 P. (2d) 833. In effect, the earlier decision was thereby read into, and made a part of, the later
one. Appellants, by this appeal, therefore, have invoked
the jurisdiction of this court at the first opportunity open
to them, and the federal question, having been considered
by the state supreme court, is properly here. Grays Har-

GANT v. OKLAHOMA CITY.
98

Opinion of the Court.

bor Co. v. Coats-Fordney Co., 243 U.S. 251, 256-257;
Louisiana Navigation Co. v. Oyster Commission, 226 U.S.
99, 101-102; Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co. v. McCabe, 213
U.S. 207, 214.
The ordinance, so far as pertinent, provides that no
well shall be drilled within the limits of the city .until
there shall be filed with the city clerk a bond in the sum
of $200,000 covering each well, executed by "some bonding or indemnity company authorized to do business in
the State of Oklahoma," conditioned for the payment of
damages on account of injuries to property, bodily injuries, etc., suffered by anyone and resulting from the
drilling, operation or maintenance of any well or any
structures, etc., appurtenant thereto.
In view of the peculiar dangers incident to the drilling
and operation of an oil or gas well within the limits of
a city and of the large interest involved if the well be
successful, neither the requirement for a bond nor the
amount fixed can be declared arbitrary or unreasonable.
Indeed, the objection to the ordinance on these grounds
was but indifferently urged at the bar. The point
stressed was that the provision of the ordinance requiring the bond to be given by a bonding or indemnity company authorized to do business in the state, and thereby
excluding the furnishing of personal sureties, is so arbitrary and unreasonable as to constitute a denial of due
process of law. That contention also is without merit.
The most that can be said is that whether the guaranty
of a bonding or indemnity company operating under
state law and subject to state regulation, is of greater
worth than that of personal sureties, is a question about
which opinions reasonably may differ. But the question
is one primarily addressed to the judgment of the lawmaking body, and that body having determined that the
former is so far superior that the latter should be excluded
from eligibility altogether, there is nothing in the due

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

process of law clause of the Fourteenth Amendment which
requires the courts to upset the conclusion. "While the
courts must exercise a judgment of their own, it by no
means is true that every law is void which may seem to
the judges who pass upon it excessive, unsuited to its ostensible end, or based upon conceptions of morality with
which they disagree. Considerable latitude must be allowed for differences of view as well as for possible peculiar conditions which this court can know but imperfectly,
if at all." Otis v. Parker, 187 U.S. 606, 608-609.
Whether the judgment of the common council of the
city in the present case was wise, or whether the requirement will produce hardship in particular instances,'are
matters with which this court has nothing to do. It is
impossible for us to say that the provisions of the ordinance are clearly arbitrary and unreasonable. If there
be room for fair debate, this court "will not substitute its
judgment for that of the legislative body charged with the
primary duty and responsibility of determining the question." Zahn v. Board of Public Works, 274 U.S. 325, 328;
Standard Oil Co. v. Marysville, 279 U.S. 582, 584.
There is evidence in the record tending to show that
conditions were imposed by surety companies of an onerous character, with which appellants -were unable to
comply. But it also appears that other operators within
the city limits were able to comply with all conditions
imposed and had procured and filed bonds in accordance
with the ordinance. So far as the record discloses, appellants stood alone in their inability to satisfy the requirements of the bonding companies. The fact that appellants, for reasons peculiar to themselves, could not
meet the imposed requirements does not militate against
the constitutionality of the ordinance. Packard v. Banton, 264 U.S. 140, 145; Standard Oil Co. v. Marysville,
supra, at p. 586; Hodge Co. v. Cincinnati, 123 Ohio St.
284, 296; 175 N.E. 196. An otherwise valid statute or,

LEVERING & G. CO. v. MORRIN.
Counsel for Parties.

98

ordinance conferring a privilege is not rendered invalid
merely because it chances that particular persons find it
hard or even impossible to comply with precedent conditions upon which enjoyment of the privilege is made to
Decree affirmed.
depend.
LEVERING & GARRIGUES CO.

ET AL.

v. MORRIN

ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT

No. 423.

Argued February 17, 1933.-Decided April 10, 1933

1. The jurisdiction of the District Court on the ground of federal
question is to be determined by the allegations of the bill, and not
upon the facts as they may turn out, or by a decision of the merits.
P. 105.
2. If the bill or the complaint sets forth a substantial claim under a
federal statute, the case is witin the federal jurisdiction, however
the court may decide upon the legal sufficiency of the facts alleged
to support the claim. Id.
3. But if the claim pleaded is plainly unsubstantial, jurisdiction is
wanting. Id.
4. The federal claim averred may be plainly unsubstantial either
because obviously without merit or because it is clearly foreclosed
by the previous decisions of this Court. Id.
5. A conspiracy to halt or suppress local building operations solely
for the purpose of compelling employment of union labor can not
be adjudged a conspiracy to restrain interstate enmmerce, merely.
because, incidentally, by checking the local use of building materials, it will curtail the sale and shipment of those materials in
interstate commerce. Industrial Assn. v. United States, 268 U.S,
64, 77-78, 80-82. P. 106.
61 F. (2d) 115, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 287 U.S. 590, to review the reversal of a
decree of injunction in a suit by building concerns alleging
conspiracy by union labor organizations.

Mr. Merritt Lane for petitioners.

Mr.Frank P. Walsh for respondents.

