JOHNSON v. MANHATTAN RY. CO.
472

Syllabus.

tion of bankruptcy. On the contrary, negotiations to prevent bankruptcy may demonstrate that the thought of
bankruptcy was the impelling cause of the payment. "A
man is usually very much in contemplation of a result
which he employs counsel to avoid." Furth v. Stahl,
supra. See, also, In re Klein-Moffett Co., 27 F. (2d) 444;
Slattery v. Dillion, 17 F. (2d) 347; In re Lang, 20 F. (2d)
239.
We are of the opinion that the court had jurisdiction
to make the order under review.
Affirmed.

JOHNSON v. MANHATTAN RAILWAY CO.

ET AL. *

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 711. Argued April 18, 19, 1933:--Decided May 29, 1933.
1. Review under writ of certiorari limited to that sought by petition.
P. 494.
2. Parties appearing in an equity suit in the District Court in
response to orders therein inviting them to show cause why a temporary receivership should not be continued, are not precluded
from objecting to the authority of the judge under an assignment,
or to the inconsistency of his action with applicable court rules,
or to the unfitness of the receivers; and should the receivership
be continued in spite of these objections, they would be entitled
to appeal. P. 495.
3. An attack in .a suit for a receivership in the District Court upon
the appointment of receivers of the same property in an earlier
independent suit in the same court, upon the grounds that the
judge who made the appointment was incompetent to act and the
persons appointed receivers unfit, held a collateral attack. P. 495.
4. A collateral attack can be successful only where and to the extent
that it discloses a want of power, as distinguished from error in
the exertion of power that was possessed. P. 496.
Together with No. 721, Boehm v. Manhattan Railway Co, et al.

480

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

289 U.S.

5. A collateral attack is not converted into a direct one by consolidating the suit in which it is made with the suit in which ihe proceeding attacked was taken. P. 496.,
6. Under 28 U.S.C., § 734, consolidation is permitted as a matter of
convenience and economy in administration, but does not merge
the suits into a single cause, or change'the. rights of the parties,
or make those who are parties in one suit parties in another.
P. 496.
7. Under 28 US.C., § 22, providing that the senior circkfit judge of
a circuit, "if the public interest requires," 'may designate "any
circuit judge" of the circuit to hold a district court therein, and
id., § 23, requiring the circuit judge so assigned to discharge all the
judicial duties "for which he is so* appointed, during the time for
which he is so appointed,", the senior circuit judge is authorized
to assign himself, and also to make the designation selective, for
a particular case. Pp. 497-500.
8. This meaning of the words is confirmed by the legislative history
of the provision and the practice under it. P. 497.
9,. Re6nactment of a *statutory provision without change implies
legislative adoption of the prior practical construction of it.
P. 500.
10. The duty of deciding whether the public interest requires an
assignment under § 22, supra, is on the judge making the assignment, and his decision thereon is not open to a .collateral attack.
P. 601.
1. An attempt of a private party, by a bill in the District Court
seeking a receiver, to set aside orders appointing receivers made
by an assigned circuit judge in another suit in the same court,
upon the ground that his assignment was invalid, can not be
regarded as a proceeding in quo warranto, and consequently as a
direct attack. P. 502.
12. A rule of the District Court providing that an assigned judge
shall "do such work only as may be assigned to him by the senior
district judge," is inconsistent with 28 U.S.C., §§ 22 and 23, as
applied to a circuit judge assigned, under those sections, to. the
District Court for a particular case. P. wo.
13. The same is true of a rule of the District Court providing that
all applications for the appointment of receivers in equity causes
shall be made to the judge holding the motion part of the court,
and "to no other judge." P. 503.

JOHNSON v. MANHATTAN RY. CO.

481

Counsel for Parties.

479

14. By 28 U.S.C., § 731, the power of the District Courts to make
rules is confined to such as are "not inconsistent- wit. any law of
the United States "; and it obviously would be thus bnited even
without the statute. P. 503.
15: The power of atsenior circuit judge to assign himself to sit in a
particular case in the District Court is one that should be sparingly
exercised and then only with care ano discretion; and the occasions
are rare in which the, matter can not be referred to the Chief
Justice or the Circuit Justice. P. 504.
16. The assignment of a judge to take charge through a receivership
of immensely valuable property of public carriers, in a case of
great public interest involving many diverse claims and difficult
problems, is a task to be performed only upon careful consideration
and with the utmost imparfiality. P. 504.
17. A difference of opinion between the senior circuit judge and the
district judges, respecting the relative fitness. of individuals and
trust companies as equity receivers, held not a proper ground for
taking the cause away from the district judge before whom it
ordinarily would come, and bringing it before the assigning senior
circuit judge, in this ca3e. P. 505.
18. As the action of the senior circuit judge in assigning himself
to the District Court and appointing receivers in this matter is
embarrassing to the receivership,- and as by his withdrawal now
that embarrassment would be relieved, the Court suggests that he
do withdraw and open the way for another judge to conduct the
further proceedings. P. 505.
61 F. (2d) 934, affirmed.

CERTioRAt to review the reversal of a decree of the
District Court, in a suit for receivers. The decree was

entered by a district judge and purported to vacate
certain orders appointing and continuing receivers, etc.,
made by the senior circuit judge sitting in the Distr'ict
Court, in another suit, under an assignment made by
himself.

See 1 F.Supp. 809.

Mr. Charles Franklin, with whom Messrs. Alfred C. B.
McNevin and Herbert Goldmark were on the brief, for

Johnson, petitioner.
t See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.
15450°-33-----31

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Counsel for Parties.

289 U.S.

Mr. Louis Boehm, with whom Messrs. Harry Shulman
and Elliot S. Benedict were on the brief, for Boehm,
petitioner.
Mr. Nathan L. Miller, with whom Messrs. Cloyd Laporte, William W. Miller, Carl M. Owen, and Harold J.
Gallagherwere on the brief, for Dowling et al., Receivers
of the Interborough Rapid Transit Co., respondents.
Mr. H. C. McCollom, with whom Mr. Edward Cornell
was on the brief, for the Central Hanover Bank & Trust
Co., Trustee, respondent.
Messrs. John W. Davis and Edwin S. S. Sunderland submitted for the Committees acting for Interborough Rapid
Transit Company 7% Secured Notes et al., respondents.
Mr. Cloyd Laporte submitted for the Committee for the
Protection of the Holders of Ten-Year Six Per Cent. Gold
Notes of Interborough Rapid Transit Co.,*respondent.
Messrs. Charles E. Hughes, Jr., and Allen S. Hubbard
submitted for Roberts, Receiver for Manhattan Railway
Co., resj)ondent.
Messrj, Paxton Blair, Boykin C. Wright, and Clifton
Murphy submitted for Merle-Smith et al., constituting the
Protective Committee for Manhattan Railway Company
Consolidated Mortgage 4% Bonds, respondents.
Messrs. James L. Quackenbush and Louis S. Carpenter
submitted for the Interborough Rapid Transit Co., respondent.
Messrs. Charles H. Tuttle, ParisS. Russell, and W. K.
Petigrue submitted for The American Brake Shoe &
Foundry Co., respondent.
Messrs. Arthur J. W. Hilly, Edgar J. Koehler, and
Frank E. Carstarphen,by leave of Court, filed a brief on
behalf of the City of New York, as amicus curiae.

JOHNSON v. MANHATTAN RY. CO.
479

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the Court.
These cases exhibit an acute controversy between the
Senior Circuit Judge of the Second 'Circuit and the District Judges of the Southern District of New York respecting the authority of a judge specially assigned to that
district-particularly the Senior Circuit Judge when so
assigned-to entertain an application for th, appointment
of receivers in a suit in equity.
Among the rules of the District Court for that district
was one whereby a particular trust company was designated as a standing receiver in bankruptcy, and effect was
given to that rule in all bankruptcy proceedings. There
was no such rule respecting receivers, in suits in equity,
and the District Judges all regarded themselves as free in
appointing such receivers to select any individual or trust
company deemed competent and suitable for the particular task. But not infrequently they selected as an equity
receiver the trust company which was designated by rule
as a standing receiver in bankruptcy proceedings. The
nature and importance of the equity receiverships for
which a trust company was selected are not clearly disclosed in this record, but it is reasonably apparent that
in no instance was the receiyership at all comparable in
scope or importance with the railroad receivership with
which the present litigation is concerned.
In 1930 the Senior Circuit Judge, acting under 28
U.S.C., § 22, and reciting that the public interest required
it, assigned himself to hold at any time a session or sessions of the District Court for that district, for the purpose of trying causes and entertaining and disposing of
any matter which might come before him.
In June, 1932, at the suggestion of counsel in an intended suit in equity for the appointment of receivers for
the Fox Theatres Corporation, the Senior Circuit Judge

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

sought informally to persuade one or more of the District Judges that a trust company ought not to be selected
as receiver, but failed to secure an acceptance of his view.
Thereupon, acting under his assignment of 1930, he entertained the application for a receiver and appointed individual receivers.
This action of the Circuit Judge was followed a few
days later by the adoption and promulgation by the
District Judges of two new rules, known as 1-a and 11-a,.
effective July 1, 1932, and apparently designed to limit
or restrict the action of assigned judges in that district.
These rules will be set forth later on.
August 25, 1932, counsel representing the parties in an
intended suit in equity by the American Brake Shoe and
Foundry Company against the Interborough Rapid Transit Company, informed the Senior Circuit Judge that an
application for the appointment of receivers would be
made in that suit, and laid before him an affidavit, entitled therein, alleging generally that a trust company or
other corporation would not be a suitable receiver, and
particularly that the defendant company's complicated
and involved daily operations, its enormous staff of operating officials and employees, its contracts and relations
with the City of New York, and the use of its facilities
by the public, required that the receiver or receivers be a
competent individual or individuals who could give constant and undivided attention to the matter. Thereupon
the Senior Circuit Judge, conceiving that a District
Judge might select a corporate receiver and that this
would be unwise and should be prevented, 1 concluded to
assign, and did assign, himself to hold a District Court
for the Southern District, "particularly to hear and determine all applications and proceedings" in the intended
'See American Brake Shoe & Foundry Co. v. Interborough Rapid
Transit Co., 1 F.Supp. 820, 825-827.

JOHNSON v. MANHATTAN RY. CO.
479.

Opinion of the Court.

suit for a period beginning that day and continuing until
the suit came to an end. This assignment, like that of
1930, recited that it was made under 28 U.S.C., § 22, and
that the public interest required it.
The statute referred to in the two assignments provides:
"Sec. 22. The Chief Justice of the United States, or
the circuit justice of any judicial circuit, or the senior
circuit judge thereof, may, if the public interest'requires,
designate and assign any circuit judge of a judicial circuit
to hold a district court within such circuit.
"During the period of service of any judge designated
and assigned under this chapter, he shall have all the
powers, and rights, and perform all the duties, of a judge
of'the district, . . . to which he has been assigned (excepting the power of appointment to a statutory position
or of permanent designation of newspaper or depository
of funds)."
The new rules adopted by the District Judges declare:
"1-a. Any judge designated to sit in the District Court
-for the Southern District of New York, shall do such work
only as may be assigned to him by the senior district
judge."
"11-a. All applications for the appointment of receivers in equity causes, in bankruptcy causes and any,
other causes (except a receiver in bankruptcy may be appointed by a referee as provided in the Bankruptcy
Rules), shall be made to the judge assigned [meaning
assigned by the District Judges in their division of business] to hold the Bankruptcy and Motion Part of the
business of the court and to no other judge."
Immediately after making the assignment last mentioned, the Senior Circuit Judge turned to 28 U.S.C., §
27, which declai'es:
" In districts having more than one district judge, the
judges may agree upon a division of business and assign-

486

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

ment of cases for trial in said district; but in case they do
not so agree, the Senior Circuit Judge of the Circuit in
which the district lies shall make all necessary orders
for the division of business and the assignment of cases
for trial in said District ";and he then made and signed the following order:
"And whereas, Martin T; Manton, a Circuit Judge of
the Second Judicial Circuit of the United States designated and assigned to hold a District Court in the Southern District of New York in said Circuit, and acting as
District Judge for the Southern District of New York in
this Second Judicial Circuit, does not agree upon the
division of business and assignment of cases for trial in
the Southern District of New York, as provided in and
pursuant to the rules of court for the Southern District
of New York, heretofore adopted by the then United
States District Judges for the Southern District of New
York; it is hereby
"Ordered, adjudged and decreed that, for a period of
thirty days beginning with this day, all applications for
the appointment of receivers in equity causes in the
Southern District of New York may be made not only to
the district judge designated to hear such application
pursuant to Rule 11-a of the General Rules of the District Court for the Southern District of New York, but
also to Martin T. Manton, Circuit Judge designated to
act as District Judge to hold a District Court for the
Southern District of New York."
That order was filed and entered in the District Court,
and on August 26 the American Brake Shoe and Fourdry
Company filed therein its bill of complaint against the
Interborough Rapid Transit Company, togethei with the
affidavit before mentioned. The bill disclosed that the
plaintiff was a simple contract creditor, suing on its own
behalf and on behalf of all other creditors who might
choose to join in the suit, and that the defendant was en-

JOHNSON v. MANHATTAN RY. CO.
479

Opinion of the Court.

gaged as a public carrier in operating an extensive system
of transportation within the City of New York and its
environs; set forth with much detail that the defendant
was in greatly embarrassed financial condition, had made
default in the payment of taxes and other claims, and
could not avoid making default in the payment of instalments of interest and prinbipal about to fall due upon
bonds and other obligations secured by mortgages; alleged that its properties were in danger of being dismembered and largely wasted through competitive efforts by
its many creditors to obtain satisfaction of their claims,
that such wasteful strife would seriously impair and interfere with the -discharge of its duties as a. public carrier,
that its properties could be preserved for equitable distribution among those entitled thereto only through the
intervention of a court of equity, and that such intervention would make for a realization for all of the creditors
of a substantially larger amount than if that relief were
not granted. The prayer was that receivers be appointed
to take charge of and preserve the defendant's properties,
continue the operation of its railroad system for the accommodation of the public, anti collect and properly appropriate the income until the final decree, and that the
court marshal and administer the assets and by its decree
ascertain and enforce tile rights, liens and equities of
the several creditors.
The suit plainly was within the jurisdiction of the Dis:
trict Court as a federal court. The parties were citizens
of different states and the amount or value in controversy
was in excess of the minimum prescribed in the jurlsdictional statute.
Immediately after the bill was filed the defendant appeared and, conformably to a resolution of its board of
directors, answered the bill, admitted the allegations
therein, joined in the plaintiff's prayer and consented to
the appointment of receivers.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

Later in the same day, August 26, the parties appeared
before the Senior Circuit Judge, sitting under the assignment and order of the day before; and, after examining
the bill, affidavit and answer, the judge made an interlocutory order appointing temporary receivers and granting the usual temporary injunction against the institution
of suits against the defendant company, except on leave
granted in that suit. The order also directed (1) that on
September 22, the parties show cause before him, as such.
assigned Circuit Judge, why the receivership should not
be continued during the pendency of the suit, and (2)
that at that hearing" any other creditor of the defendant
or other party in interest may be heard."
The receivers took possession of the properties and have
since been operatirg them under orders made fr6m time
to time by the Senior Circuit Judge in that suit.
September 6, the Manhattan Railway Company, petitioned for leave to intervene as a defendant in the Interborough receivership suit and set forth in the petition
many facts showing the Manhattan's serious financial
embarrassment; and alleged that it owned a substantial
part of the property held and operated by the Interborough Company and included in the receivership, and
that the same was held and operated by the Interborough
Company under a lease from the Manhattan Company.
The petition referred to and claimed the benefit of various provisions in the lease defining the obligations of the
Interborough Company thereunder, and pointed out thatin several particulars the Interborough had made default
in the performance of its obligations and that these defaults were admitted by the Interborough's answer. The
petition prayed that the Manhattan Company be made a
party defendant in the receivership suit for the protection
of its interests and those of its creditors; that the receivership be extended so as to embrace the interest of the Manhattan Company, but without prejudicing or impairing

JOHNSON v. MANHATTAN RY. CO.
479

Opinion of the Court.

any of its rights against the Interborough Company or
the latter's receivers, and that such receivers be required
to keep separate accounts in respect of the railroads owned
by the Manhattan Company. Upon the presentation of
this petition the Senior Circuit Judge made an interlocutory order granting its several prayers, appointing a separate temporary receiver for the Manhattan Company and
its assets, and granting the usual injunction. This order
also required the parties to show cause on September 22,
why the extension of the receivership to the Manhattan
Company and its assets should not be continued during
the pendency of the suit, and provided that upon such
hearing "'any other creditor of the defendant or other
party in interest may be heard."
Several committees representing different groups of
creditors, some of the Interborough Company and others
of the Manhattan Company, were permitted to intervene
and become parties, and many orders were made relating
to the employment of counsel for the receivers and the
conduct of the receivership.
On the return day of the rules to show cause the parties
and many others in interest appeared and were heard by
the Senior Circuit Judge; but Benjamin F. Johnson and
Lillian Boehm, to be mentioned presently, were not
among those, who appeared. Both refrained from participating in the hearing or otherwise appearing in the
suit. As a result of the hearing, the Senior Circuit Judge,
on September 28, made an order or decree continuing the
receiverships of the Interborough and Manhattan during
the further pendency of the suit.
In the meantime another separate suit for the appointment of receivers of the Manhattan and Interborough
companies was commenced, and that suit needs now to be
described.
On September 21, Benjamin F. JQhnson, a minority
shareholder of the Manhattan Corppapy, filpd in the Dis-

490

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

trict Court an independent bill against that company and
its temporary receiver, the Interborough Company and
its temporary receivers, and the American Brake Shoe
and Foundry Company. He sued on behalf of himself
and all other shareholders in -the Manhattan Company
who might join; and his right to sue the Manhattan and
Interborough companies and their temporary receivers
was based upon an order giving him leave so to do, which
was made by the District Judge sitting in the motion
part of the court, notwithstanding the injunction granted
by the Senior Circuit Judge when the temporary receivers
were appointed. Johnson in his bill asserted a cause of
action on behalf of the Manhattan Company against the
Interborough Company arising out of the lease before
described, and also a right to an accounting in that connection. He further asserted there was an urgenf need for
receivers for both companies and prayed for the appointment of separate receivers for each of them. By hig
bill he also assailed the authority of the Senior Circuit
Judge to entertain the suit of the American Brake ShoeCompany or to appoint receivers or make any order or
decree therein; and asserted that all of the orders -and
decrees passed by that judge were those of an usurper and
wholly void, (1) because there was no public interest requiring the assignment of a Circuit Judge to sit in the
suit, and therefore the assignment under which the judge
was acting was without lawful basis and void; (2) because
the District Judges were not in disagreement, but, in full
accord, respecting the division of business and therefore
the order of the Senior Circuit judge respecting a division of business, whereby he directed that applications
for the appointment of receivers in equity might-be made
to him, was without lawful basis and ,,oid; (3) because
he was a designated judge within the meaning of Rule 1-a
of the District Court, and under that rule could do "such
work only" as might be committed to him by the Senior

JOHNSON v. MANHATTAN RY. CO.
479

Opinion of the Court.

District Judge, and none had been so committed; and (4)
because Rule 11-a of the District Court required all applications for the appointment of receivers in equity to be
made to the judge assigned by the district judges to hold
the motion part of the court, and "to no other judge,"
and not only was the Senior Circuit Judge not assigned
to that part of the court but a District Judge duly assigned thereto was sitting therein at the time, and willing
and ready to act upon any such application. Upon these
grounds Johnson prayed that the Senior Circuit Judge's
assignment to the District Court for the purpose of hearing matters in the American Brake Shoe Company's suit,
his division-of-business order directing that applications
for the appointing of receivers in equity might be made to
him, his orders appointing temporary receivers for the
Interborough Company and a temporary receiver for the
Manhattan Company, and all other orders made by him
in the suit, be held void and vacated.
On the same day, September 21, Lillian Boehm was
given leave, by the District Judge sitting in the motion
part of the court, to intervene as a party plaintiff in Johnson's suit, which she did. She was a stockholder in the
Manhattan Company and a secured creditor of the Interborough Company. In her bill of intervention she asserted there was imperative need for the appointment of a
receiver to take charge of and to preserve the property of
the Interborough Company, continue the operation of
its railroad system for the accommodation of the public,
and collect and properly appropriate the ,income thereof
until the final decree; assailed the orders of the Senior
Circuit Judge in the American Brake Shoe Company's
suit upon the same grounds that were set forth in Johnson's bill; and joined in the prayers of his bill.
Johnson and Boehm both subsequently filed petitions
supplemental to their original bills and in these supplements the Senior Circuit Judge's order of September 28,

492

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

continuing the Interborough and Manhattan receiverships was assailed as void upon the grounds theretofore
advanced against the orders appointing temporary receivers. Thenceforth he assault was directed chiefly
against the order continuing the receiverships, the orders
naming temporary receivers having served their purpose
and being superseded.
In their bills and supplements Johnson and Boehm also
complained that the receivers appointed for the Interborough and Manhattan companies in the earlier suit of
the American Brake Shoe Company had theretofore had,
or then had, relations with the Interborough and Manhattan Companies and with particular groups of the
creditors of one or the other of those companies which
would tend to prevent them from discharging their duties
impartially and with due regard to the rights of all who
were parties in interest. But there was no claim that
either Johnson or Boehm had presented this complaint
in the suit wherein the receivers were appointed and in
Which they were acting.
In the Johnson suit Johnson and Boehm separately procured, from the District Judge sitting in the motion part
of the court, rules requiring the defendants in that
suit to show cause on October 4 why orders should not
be granted vacating (1) the Senior CircuiA Judge's assignment of himself to sit in the District Court to hear matters
in the American Brake Shoe Company's suit, (2) his
division-of-business order directing that applications for
the appointment of receivers in equity might be made to
him, anu (3) his several orders in the American Brake
Shoe Company's suit, including those appointing receivers; and why independent receivers for the Manhattan
Company, and likewise for the Interborough Company,
should not be appointed in the Johnson suit.
On the return day of these rules to show cause the
parties appeared before the District Judge sitting in the

JOHNSON v. MANHATTAN RY. CO.
479

Opinion of the Court.

motion part of the court, and were heard by him. At
that time answers to the bills and supplements had not
been filed and as yet were not due. Affidavits were tendered by the defendants to refute the complaint questioning the personal fitness of the receivers for the service
for which they were appointed. But the District Judge
put this and related questions of fact to one side as being
outside the scope of the hearing, which he ruled was confined to the question whether the Senior Circuit Judge
could entertain the application for receivers in the suit
of the American Brake Shoe Company and make the
orders which were assailed.
The outcome of the hearing was that the District Judge
held that the Senior Circuit Judge's assignment of himself
to the District Court to hear and determine all matters
in the American Brake Shoe Company's suit was void,
because, even if empowered by § 22 to make a general
assignment of himself to hold the District Court, he was
without authority to make a selective assignment, as by
designating the case which he was to hear or the part of
the court in which he was to sit; that his division-ofbusiness order was void, because under § 27 a failure of
the District Judges to agree upon the division of business
is a condition precedent to action on that subject by the
Senior Circuit Judge, and there had been no such failure
to agree; that rules 1-a and 11-a of the District Court
are valid and operate to limit the jurisdiction of all
judges assigned to the District Court, whether they be
District Judges or Circuit Judges, and as the c lers of the
Senior Circuit Judge in the American Brake Shoe Company's suit were all made in contravention of those rules
they were void; and that these orders could hot be supported on the theory that he was a de facto judge, for he
was not such but merely an intruder.2 The District
'Johnson v. Manhattan Ry. Co., 1 F.Supp. 809.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

Judge accordingly passed a decree, on October 18, vacating
all decrees and orders made by the Senior Circuit Judge in
the American Brake Shoe Company's suit. But just before giving that decree the District Judge passed another,
on his own motion and oXer the objection of the parties
to the suit of the American Brake Shoe Company, consolidating that suit and the Johnson suit. Consolidation
was ordered because, as the District Judge said, there was
in his mind "a residuum of doubt" whether, so long as
the suits remained separate, an order properly could be
passed in the Johnson suit vacating the orders made in
the other and earlier suit.
On appeals to the Circuit Court of Appeals the consolidating decree and the vacating decree were both reversed.' Johnson and Boehm then separately petitioned
this Court for a review on certiorari and the petitions were
granted.
Counsel for petitioners. now assume that in granting
the petitions this Court intended to review the decision
of the Circuit Court of Appeals on the appeal from the
consolidating decree, as well as its decision on the appeal
from the vacating decree; but the assumption is without
any basis. In the petitions complaint was made of the
reversal of the vacating decree, but not of the reversal of
the consolidating decree; and the reasons advanced to obtain a review related only to the reversal of the vacating decree. Plainly the petitions sought a review of the
latter, and of it only; and obviously the review granted
was not intended to be broader than that sought in the
petitions.
In turning to the particular questions presented the
Circuit Court of Appeals accurately and concisely observed:
"The controversy does not touch the substantial relief
asked by any of the parties; all acknowledge that the two
'Joinson v. Manhattan Ry. Co., 61 F. (2d) 934.

JOHNSON v. MANHATTAN RY. CO.
479

495

Opinion of the Court.

railways are in such financial straits that a court of equity
must take over their assets, to prevent their dismemberment by execution, attachment and the like. The plaintiffs, and those who have intervened, [in the Johnson
suit] ask for receivers, just as did the parties to the
American Brake ,Shoe Company suit. The dispute
touches merely who shall be the receivers, and who the
judge to have charge of the receivership."
One question claiming attention is whether the attack
made in the Johnson suit on the orders in the American
Brake Shoe Company suit was direct or collateral. The
suits were distinct, although directed to the same main
en4. Johnson purposely brought his suit as a separate
and independent suit and Boehm purposely intervened in
it as such. Both were invited by the orders in the other
suit to appear therein and show cause, if any they had,
why the temporary receivership should not be continued.
Had they appeared they would have been entitled to object that the judge sitting at the time was acting without
authority or in contravention of applicable court rules,
and to object that the persons temporarily named as
receivers were not suited to the task and ought not to be
continued; and had the receivership been continued without giving effect to these objections they would have beeh
entitled to appeal.' In thus seeking a correction of errors
claimed to have been committed in continuing the receiverships they would have been engaged in a direct attack.
But they chose to make the objections in a distinct receivership suit of their own, not on any recognized equitable
ground, such as fraud, imposition or mistake, but on the
ground of alleged error. In this they were engaged in a
collateral attack. That their suit was brought in the
'28 U.S.C., § 227; Christian v. R. Hoe & Co., 63 F. (2d) 218;
Mitchell v. Lay, 48 F. (2d) 79, 84, 85; Kingsport Press v. Brief English Systems, 54 F. (2d) 497; Pacific Northwest Packing Co. v. Allen,
109 Fed. 515; Blake v. District Court, 59 F. (2d) 78.

496

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

same court where the other suit was pending did not make '
the attack any the less collateral.' Of course, under
equity rule 37, they could not intervene as parties in the
other suit, save "in subordination to, and in recognition
of, the propriety of the main proceeding "; but this restriction put no, obstacle in their way. 5 They were not
objecting to a receivership such as was sought in the other
suit, but were themselves asserting its propriety upon the
same grounds and to the same general erpd that were set
up .in that suit. Their objections went only to the particular judge sitting in the hearing and to the particular
receivers. In these circumstances it is plain that the attack was collateral.' And, this being so, there was need
for heeding the familiar rule that such an attack can be
successful only where and to' the extent that it discloses
a want of power as distinguished from error in the exertion of power that was possessed.
The District Judge, as shown in his opinion, was in
.doubt whether the attack was direct or cpllateral, but
conceived that the doubt could be removed and the attack made direct by ordering a consolidation of the two
suits, which he did on his own motion over objections by
the parties to the American Brake Shoe Company suit.
The order of consolidation has since been reversed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals; but, quite apart from the reversal, the consolidation did not alter the nature of ,the
attack. Under the statute, 28 U.S.C., § 734, consolidation is permitted as a matter of convenience and economy
in administration, but does not merge the suits into a
Cohen v. Portland Lodge, 152 Fed. 357, 359.
Central Republic Bank v. Caldwell, 58 F. (2d) 721, 729.
1 Freeman on Judgments, 5th ed., §§ 305-308, 315; Vanfleet on
Collateral Attack, §§ 2, 3.
'Dowell v. Applegate, 152 U.S. 327, 337-340; Fauntleroy v. Lum,
210 U.S. 230, 237; Ex parte Roe, 234 U.S. 70, 72; Matin v. Augedahl,

247 U.S. 142, 149, 152.

JOHNSON v. MANHATTAN RY. CO.
479

Opinion of the Court.

single cause, or change the rights of the parties, or make
those who are parties in one suit parties in another.'
Next in order are the questions respecting the Senior
Circuit Judge's assignment of himself to sit in the District Court to hear matters in the American Brake Shoe
Company -suit. The statute, 28 U.S.C., § 22, provides
that the Chief Justice, or the Circuit Justice of the circuit,
or the Senior Circuit Judge thereof, may, "if the public
interest requires," desigriate and assign "any circuit
judge" of the circuit to hold a district court therein. The
.same authority to assign that is given to the Chief Justice'and the Circuit Justice, respectively, is also given to
the Senior Circuit Judge; and that authority is to assign
" any circuit judge" of the particular circuit. There are
no restrictive words. There can be no doubt that under
this section the Chief Justice may assign the Sbnior Circuit Judge of the circuit, he being one of the Circuit
Judges thereof; and equally there can be no doubt that
the Circuit Justice may do the same. May the Senior
Circuit Judge assign himself? The words of the section,
taken literally, mean that he may do so; and only by
implying restrictive words which are not there can the
section be held to mean otherwise. But the real meaning is not reflected alone in the words of the section, for
there are other considerations which point to the literal
meaning as the true one.
Section 22 was first enacted as part of the Judicial
Code, effective January 1, 1912, which abolished the old
Circuit Courts and transferred their jurisdiction to the
District Courts. When the proposed code was pending
before the Congress differences of opinion arose over the
proposed abolition of the Circuit Courts. There was op'Toledo, St. L. & K. C. R. Co. v. Cdnti etal Trust Co., 95 Fed.
497, 506; Taylor v. Logan Trust Co., 2S9 Fed. 51, 53; Nolte v. Hud-

son Navigation Co., 11 F. (2d) 680, 682; Mutual Life Ins. Co. v.
Hillmon, 145 U.S. 285, 293.
15450*-33-----2

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 US

position to this on the ground chiefly that it would take
Circuit Judges out of work in which they were accustomed
to participate, and as to much of which there would be
reason for their continued participation. These differences led to the inclusion in the proposed code of the assignment provision now embodied in § 22. Members
of the conmittees having the bill in charge and members
of the conference committee to which it ultimately was
referred explained in their respective Houses that the
provision was intended to establish a liberal and flexible
plan under which Circuit Judges could sit in the District
Courts; and that under it any Circuit Judge readily could
be assigned to hold a District C6urt within his circuit
whenever occasion therefor might arise, whether from a
pressure of business in a District Court, from the presence
therein of particular cases of special importance, from an
absence of business in the Circuit Court of Appeals, or
from any other situation, if the Senior Circuit Judge, or
the Circuit Justice, or the Chief Justice, deemed the assignment to be in the public interest.9
Since the Judicial Code went into effect it has been the
practice of most of the Senior Circuit Judges to assign
themselves, as well as other Circuit Judges, to sit in
District Courts within their circuits whenever they
deemed that the public interest required it. The practice
was initiated early in 1912 by the then Senior Circuit
Judge for the Second Circuit and has been followed by each
of his four successors. In the other circuits the Senior
Circuit Judges, with a notable exception, 10 adopted that
'Congressional Record, Vol. 45, part 4, pp. 3547, 3999, 4000; Vol.
46, part 1, pp. 302, 303; Vol. 46, part 1, p. 840; Vol. 46, part 3,
p. 2138; Vol. 46, part 3, pp. 4003, 4004; Vol. 46, part 4, p. 4006.
"Circuit Judge Walter H. Sanborn was long the Senior Circuit
Judge of the Eighth Circuit and during much of that period the
Justice delivering this opinion was the Circuit Justice for that

JOHNSON v. MANHATTAN RY. CO.
479

499

Opinion of the Court.

course of action. Some of the assignments were generally
to hold a District Court in a named district; others Were
to hold a particular division of a District Court. or a term
of such court at one of several places fixed by law; and
still others were to hold a District Court to hear and determine a designated cause or causes.
Early in 1912 the Senior Circuit Judge of the Second
Circuit assigned himself to sit in a District Court to hear
matters arising in a specified receivership suit. While
he was sitting in that suit an intervener challenged his
authority to make the assignment or act under it. A
heari' ig was had on the question, after which the judge in
a considered opinion, published at the time," upheld the
assignment and denied the motion presenting the chalcircuit. The files of this Circuit Justice are the basis for the following
statement:
In 1912 Judge Sanborn was requested by the other Circuit. Judges
in that circuit and by the District Judge who was specially concerned,
to take charge of an important railroad receivership suit in one of the
districts within the circuit. Judge Sanborn indicated that he would
be willing to undertake the service if he were assigned thereto by the
Chief Justice or the Circuit Justice, but that he was quite unwilling to
assign himself to the District Court for the purpose, because such an
assignment would have a personal side approaching impropriety. One

of the Circuit Judges and the District Judge of the particular district
then applied to the Circuit Justice to make an assignment of Judge
Sanborn, which was done. Judge Sanborn's indisposition to assign
himself continued; and in like circumstan-es he was assigned by the
Circuit Justice to District Courts in that circuit on twelve different
occasions in the years 1912 to 1923, each assignment being linited to
a particular year but otherwise general. The receiverships of the
Wabash Railroad and the St. Louis & San Francisco Railroad were
among the matters which came before Judge Sanborn under those
assignments.
Judge Sanborn's successor as Senior Circuit Judge accepted and conformed to the general practice.
"Pennsylvania Steel Co. v. New York City Ry. Co., 221 Fed. 440.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

lenge. A review was not sought, nor was the question
further agitated.
The practice of the Senior Circuit Judges here described
and the decision just mentioned amounted to a practical
construction of the provision in question in keeping with
its literal meaning. In 1922, after that construction had
prevailed and been acted on for several years, the provision was regnacted by the Congress as part of an act
dealing with other assignments of judges to the District
Courts.1 2 'The reenactment was without any change indicative of a disapproval of the prior construction by the
Senior Circuit Judges. In'such circumstances, as this
Court often has pointed'out, reenactment operates as an
implied legislative approval of the prior constructionin other words, as a reefnactment of the statute as before
construed.18
It is said that § 22 gives no authority for making a
selective designation, as by designating the case which the
assigned judge is to hear or the part of the court in which
he is to sit. To this assent cannot be given. It has no
support in the' words of the section, is contrary to the
plain import of the legislative proceedings before noticed,
and is opposed to the settled practice of the Senior Circuit Judges. Assignments to hear particular cases have
been made in all the circuits. Such an assignment was
involved in United States v. Gill, 292 Fed. 136, and was
sustained by the Circuit' Court of Appeals for the Fourth
Circuit. The earliest assignments in the Second Circuit
were thus limited-not only the one assigning the Senior
Circuit Judge already noticed, but also those assigning
other Circuit Judges. it is easily conceivable that there
may be compelling reason. in the public interest to make
Act of Sept. 14i 1922, c. 306, 42 Stat. 837.
Old Colony R. Co. v. Commissioner, 284 ti.S. 552, 557; McCqughn
v. Hershey Chocolate Co., 283 U.S. 488, 493; Heald v. District of
Columbia, 254 U.S. 20, 23.
I

JOHNSON v. MANHATTAN RY. CO.
479

Opinion of the Court.

an assignment for a particular case, or for one of several
divisions of the court, or for a limited period such as
thirty or sixty days. The section makes the public interest, AS found by the assigning authority, the criterion.
If that interest is found to require only a limited assignment, it would seem that the' action taken should be
limited accordingly. The succeeding'section (23) requires
'a Circuit Judge who is assigned under § 22 to discharge
all the judicial duties "for which he is so appinted,
during the time for which he is so appointed."' In
this there is a plain implication that the assignment may
be for particular duties and for a limited time.
The District Judge did not rule on the part of the attack wherein it was contended that the 'assignment was
invalid because there was no public interest requiring it;
but the Circuit Court of Appeals rejected the tontention
on the ground that the recital or finding in the assignment that public interest required it is conclusive in this
proceeding. Plainly the Circuit Court of Appeals was
right. By § 22 the decision as to a requiring public interest is left t9. the one having the power to assign. The
duty and the responsibility are with him-as well when
he is a Senior Circuit Judge as when he is the Chief Justice or a Circuit Justice. His' decision that there is a requiring public interest is not open to a collateral attack
such as is here presented.." And were it so open, no litigant could with any safety submit any matter to an
assigned judge-a situation which would involve intolerable uncertainty and embarrassment to both public and
private interests.
"People v. Ballard, 134 N.Y. 269, 293; 32 N.E. 54; People ex rel.
Saranac L. & T. Co. v. Supreme Court, 220 N.Y. 487, 491; 116 N.E.
384; State v. Lewis, 107 N.C. 967, 977; 12 S.E. 457; 13 S.E. 247;
Cocke v. Halsey, 16 Pet. 71, 87; Ex parte American Steel Barrel Co.,
230 U.S. 35, 45.

502

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

In the course of his opinion the District Judge suggested that the assault on the assignment and on the
Senior Circuit Judge's authority to act under it "sounded
in quo warranto," and so might possibly be regarded as
being direct rather than collateral. But the suggestion
was ill-grounded. Quo warranto is addressed to preventing a continued exercise of authority unlawfully asserted,
not to a correction of what already has been done under
it or to a vindication of private rights. It is an extraordinary proceeding, prerogative in nature, and in this instance could have been brought by the United' States, and
by it only, for there is no statute delegating to an individual the right to resort to it. 5 Besides, such a proceeding, to reach its objective in a situation like that here disclosed, must be brought against the person who is charged
with exercising an office or authority without lawful
right.'0 The Johnson suit was not against the judge acting under the assignment, but was wholly between others
who were private litigants. So, granting that an attack
in a quo warranto proceeding would have been direct, and
not merely collateral, it must be held that the suit before
the District Judge was not such a proceeding.
It follows from the views already expressed that there
was no jurisdictional infirmity in the Senior Circuit
Judge's orders in the American Brake Shoe Company suit,
unless such an infirmity arose from his disregard of rules
1-a and 11-a of the District Court. His status when
making the orders was that of a Circuit Judge specially
assigned to and sitting in the District Court to hear and
determine all applications and proceedings in the suit
wherein the orders were made; and his powers and duties
Wallace v. Anderson, 5 Wheat. 291; Territory v. Lockwood, 3
Wall. 236; Newman v. U.S. ex ret. Frizzell, 238 U.S. 537; First Na-,
tional Bink v. Fellows, 244 U.S. 416, 427-428; First National Bank v.
Missouri, 263 US. 640, 660-661.

High on Extraordinary Legal Remedies, 3d ed., § 604..

. JOHNSON v. MANHATTAN RY. CO.
479

Opinion of the Court.

in that connection were just what they. would have been
had he been so assigned by the Chief Justice or the Circuit Justice, instead of by himself. No doubt he was
under a duty to recognize and respect all valid rules of
the District Court which were applicable to the proceedings before him; but he was not under i duty to give
effect to rules which were either invalid or inapplicable.
One of the rules disregarded, 1-a, provides that an assigned judge shall "do such work only as may be assigned
to him by the senior district judge. In this there is an
attempt to invest the senior judge of the district with a
discretion to determine what work an assigned judge shall
do, and also an attempt to exclude him from any other
work. Here the Circuit Judge was sitting in -theDistrict
Court under an assignment specially designating the work
which he was to do. The rule says in effect that this
work could not be done by him unless the senior, judge
of the district approved the special designation; and it
means that this judge may either alprove or disapprove.
In short, it attempts to give him a power of veto over the
designation and thus to interfere with the work specified.
By statute, 28 U.S.C., § 731, the power of the District
Courts to make rules is confined to such as are "not inConsistent with any law of the United States "; and it obviously would be thus limited even without the statute."
Not only does § 22 authorize a special assignment such as
is shown here, but § 23 requires the assigned judge to discharge the duties for which he is so assigned. It is apparent, therefore, that, as applied to such an assignment,
the rule operates as an interference with the discharge of
those duties and is in that regard inconsistent with §§-22
and 23 and invalid.
The other rule which was disregarded, 11-a, provides
that all applications for the appointment of receivers in
17 Washington-Southern Navigation Co.

v. Baltimore & Philadelphia

Steamboat Co., 263 U.S. 629, 635, and cases cited.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

equity causes shall be made to the judge holding the motion part of the court, and "to no other judge." As it is
sought to be applied here, this rule is subject to objections
like those just assigned for condemning the application
sought to be made of rule 1-a. The judge to whom the
application for receivers was presented was sitting in the
District Court on the equity side. Under § 22 he was
specially assigned to that court to hear and determine all
proceedings in the suit in which the application was
made; and § 23 laid on him a duty to conform to the assignment. The rule forbids him to hear the application
notwithstanding his special assignment. Thus the rule
conflicts with § § 22 and 23 and must fall.
What has been said shows that the collateral attack
cannot succeed and that the decree of the Circuit Court
of Appeals must be affirmed.. But in the interest of right
judicial administration, and to avoid any misapprehension as to what is here decided, something more needs to
be said.
The possession of power is one thing; the propriety of
its exercise in particular circumstances is quite a different
thing. This is true of the power of a Senior Circuit Judge
to assign himself to sit in a particular case in a District
Court. In its very nature this power is one which should
be sparingly exercised, and then only in special exigencies
and with commensurate care and discretion. The occasions are rare in which the matter cannot be referred to
the Chief Justice or the Circuit Justice and committed to
his consideration and judgment. A receivership is not
grantable as of course, but only for reasons strongly appealing to the judge to whom the application is made.
When large properties are involved a receivership usually
involves widely conflicting interests and presents questions fraught with difficulty and exceptional delicacy.
This was true of the receivership here in question. Jt involved properties, estimated to approximate $500,000,000
in value, which were held and used by a public carrier em-

JOHNSON v. MANHATTAN RY. CO.
479

505

Opinion of the Court.

ploying thousands of persons in its work and carrying
hundreds of thousands of passengers each day. The carrier was in greatly embarrassed condition, had thousands
of creditors whose interests were divergent, and was confronted with possible forfeiture of some of its franchises.
All this shows that the situation was one in which the
assignment of a judge to take charge of the receivership, if
-one was to be assigned, was a task which needed to be
performed upon careful consideration and with the utmost
impartiality. The difference of opinion between the
SeniorCircuit Judge and the District Judges, respecting
the relative fitness of individuals and trust companies as
equity receivers, was not a proper ground for taking the
cause away from the District Judge before whom it ordinarily would come, and bringing it before the assigning
Senior Circuit Judge."8 Granting that the latteir was
most sincere in what he did, there was yet no compelling
reason for assigning himself. Had he reflected he prob,
ably would not have made such an assignment; but he
acted hastily and evidently with questionable wisdom.
This action has embarrassed and is embarrassing the receivership. If he were now to withdraw from further
participation in the receivership proceedings the embarrassment would be relieved; and the belief is ventured
here that, on further reflection, he will recognize the propriety of so doing and, by withdrawing, will open the way
for another judge with appropriate authority to conduct
Decree affirmed.
the further proceedings.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

The

CHIEF JUSTICE

concurs in the result.

and

MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS did-not

hear the argument or participate in the decision.
'See

Appleton v. Smith, 1 Fed. Cas. No. 498, p. 1075; Cole Silver

Ming Co. v. Virginia & G. H. Water Co., 6 Fed. Cas. No. 2990, pp.

72, 74; Hadden v. Natchaug Silk Co., 84 Fed. 80; Harkin v. Brundav.
276 US. 36, 55.

