UNITED STATES v. FLORES.
130

Syllabus.

fiscatory is not sufficient and that, in order to invoke constitutional protection, the facts relied on must be specifically set forth and from them it must clearly appear that
the rates would necessarily deny to plaintiff just compensation and deprive it of. its property without due process
of law. Aetna Insurance Co. v. Hyde, 8upra, 447. This
Reversed.
allegation is not sufficient.
UNITED STATES v. FLORES
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT O1. THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA

No. 567. Argued March 14, 1933.-Decided April 10, 1933
1. The clause of the Constitution, Art. I, § 8, specifically granting to
Congress the power "to define and punish piracies and felonies
committed on the high seas, and offenses against the law of nations,"
and the general provision of Art. III, § 2, extending the judicial
power "to all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction," are the
results of separate steps independently taken in the Convention, by
which the jurisdiction in admiralty, previously divided between the
Confederation and the States, was transferred to the National
Government. P. 146.
2. In view of the history of the two clauses and the manner of their
adoption, the grant of power to define and punish piracies and
felonies on the high seas can not be deemed to be a limitation on
the powers, either legislative or judicial, conferred on the National
Government by Art. III, § 2. P. 149.
3. To. construe the one clause as limiting rather than supplementing
the other would be to ignore their history, and without effecting
any discernible purpose of their enactment, to deny to bqth the
States and the National Government powers which were common
attributes of sovereignty before the adoption of the Constitution,
including the power to define and punish crimes, of less gravity
than felonies, committed on vessels of the United States while on
the high seas, and crimes of every grade committed on them while
in. foreign territorial waters. P. 149.
4. The jurisdiction over admiralty and maritime cases extends to crimes
committed on vessels of the United States while in navigable waters
within the territorial jurisdiction of foreign sovereigns. P. 150.

138 '

OCTOBER TERM,, 1932.
Argument for the United States.

289 U.S.

5. The jurisdiction is not affected by the fact that the vessel is on a
river at a place remote from the sea where the water is not salt or
%
tidal.. P. 153.
6. Section 272 of' the Criminal Code, making murder and other
roffenses punishable "when committed within the admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction of the United States and out of the jurisdiction of any particular State, on board any vessel belonging in whole
or in part to the United States ' or any of its citizens, etc., is broad
enough to include crimes in "the territorial waters of foreign
sovereignties. Pp. 145, 155.
7. Congress, by incorporating in the statute the very language of the'constitutional grant of' power, has made its exercise of the power
co-extensive with the grant. - P. 155.
8. 1Th6 general rule that criminal statutes of the United States are not
.to be given extraterritorial effect, is inapplicable to our merchant
vessels. P. 155.
9. A merchant ship, for purposes of the jurisdiction of the courts
of the sovereignty whose flag it flies to punish crimes comimitted
upon it, is deemed to be a part of the territory of that sovereignty,
and not to lose that character when in 4navigable waters within the
territorial limits of another sovereignty. P. 155.
10. For some purposes, the jurisdiction to punish crimes committed
on a foreign vessel in territorial waters is concurrent in the territorial sovereign and the sovereign of the vessel's flag. P. 157.
11. In the absence of any controlling treaty provision, and of any
assertion of jurisdiction by the territorial sovereign, it is the duty
of the courts of the United States to apply to offenses committed
by its citizens on vessels flying its flag, its own statutes, interpreted
in the light of recognized principles of international law. P. 159.
3 F.Supp. 134, reversed.

APPEAL from a judgment sustaining a demurrer to an

,indictment, which charged the' appellee, an American
citizen, with having, murdered aiiother American citizen
aboard an American ship in foreign territorial waters.
The case was decided below on the authority of United
States v. Mathues, 21 F. (2d) 533; 27 id. 518.
Solicitor General Thacher, with whom Mr. Robert P.
Reeder was on the brief, for the United States.
Section 2 of Art. III, extending the judicial power to all
cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, dealt with

UNITED STATES v. FLORES.
137

Argument for the United States.

the powers retained by the States under the Articles of
Confederation over matters within the admiralty and
jurisdiction; and clause 10, § 8, of Art. I dealt
maritime
with the power granted to Congress under
the Articles of
Confederation to define and punish piracies and felonies
on the high seas and offenses against the Law of Nations.
Although Art. III, § 2, contains no express grant of legislative power over the substantive maritime law, the provision was regarded from the beginning as implicitly
investing such power in the United States. This provision is therefore to be read as if it contained an express
grant. to Congress of legislative power over all matters
within the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction. Panama
R. Co. v. Johnson, 264 U.S. 375, 386-388; (7nited States
v. Bevans, 3 Wheat. 33, 389; Crowell v. Benson, 285 U.S.
22, 39.
Considering the source and purpose of these two clauses
of the Constitution, they must be regarded as complementary and as inclusive of all powers of sovereignty over
maritime matters whether exercised by the Congress or by
the States under the Articles of Confederation. To construe the express grant of power to define and punish
piracies and felonies committed on the high spas as an
eXclusive. definition of the power of Congress to punish
offenses within tho admiralty and maritime jurisdiction
would at once bring the two clauses into irreconcilable
conflict, with the result that a power inherent in sovereignty would be found to reside neither in the States nor
in the United States.
The offense charged in the indictment was within the
maritime and admiralty jurisdiction as that jurisdiction
was understood when the, Constitution was framed and
adopted. De Lovio v. Boit, 2 Gall. 398, 459, 7 Fed. Cas.
418, 438.
The -admiralty from the highest antiquity has exercised
a very extensive criminal jurisdiction. 27 Henry VIII,

140

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for the United States.

_

289 US.

c. 4; 28 id., c. 15; Holdsworth, History of English Law, 4th
ed., I, 550-552; C. M. Andrews, Guide to Materials for
American History in Pub. Records Office Great Britain,
Vol. 2, 305, 306; Hale, Pleas of the Crown, 17; 15 Richard
II, c. 3; Benedict on Admiralty, 5th ed.,'743,748,774; King
v. Bruce, 2 Leach, Crown Cases, 353; Stephen, History of
Criminal Law, II, 16-23; Brooks, Trial of Captain- Kidd,
40, 57; Queen v. Carr, L.R., 10 Q.B.D. 76; Queen v.
Anderson, L*R. 1 Crown Cases Reserved 161.
In the Colonies, as in England, offenses committed on
the high seas or on streams within the ebb and flow of the
tides were considered to be within the admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction. 28 Henry VIII, c. 15; 11 and 12
Will. 3, c. 7; 2 Stephen, History of Criminal Law, 20. So
far as we have been able to discover, only p'etty maritime
offenses were tried before the Colonia Vice-Adiralty
Courts. Serious offenses, such as piracy, murder, and
other felonies were tried before special 4dmiralty Court;
in the Colonies or were-sent to England for trial by Commissioners appointed under the Statute of Henry VIII.
Publications of Colonial Society of Massachusetts, Vol.
II, 237, 288; Benedict on Admiralty, 5th ed., 792-811;
Record Book of Maryland Court of Vice-Admiralty, in
Manuscripts Division, Library of Congress, fols. 74, 82;
Rhode Island, Letters from Governors in America, 1756,
P.R.O.:C.O. 5: 17, p. 639; Jameson, Privateering and
Piracy in the Colonial Period, pp. 143, note 2; 278, note
1 -286, note 1;1 577-580; 3 Hening 176. See Hough's
Cases in Vice-Admiralty and Admiralty: King v. Booth
(1730), p. 12; King v. Burgess (1748), p. 56;' King v.
White (1754), p. 81.
Both Congress and this Court have recognized that
criminal offenses, even when committed within the territorial waters of a foreign sovereignty, are within the maritime jurisdiction of the United States. Act of Apr. 30,
1790, c. 9, § 8, 1 Stat. 112, 113; United States v. Bevana, 3

UNITED STATES v. FLORES.
137

Argument for Appellee.

Wheat. 336, 389; United States v. Wiltberger, 5 Wheat.
76, 104; Act of Mar. 3, 1825, c. 65, §§ 4, 5,4 Stat. 115;
Gale & Seaton's Register of Debates, vol. 1, cols. 154, 1587
Rev. Stats., §§ 5339, 5346; Wynne v. United States, 217
U.S. 234' United States v. Rodgers, 150 U.S. 249.
The exercise by Congress of its admiralty and, maritime
jurisdiction over offenses committed on board American
vessels lying in foreign ports is in accord with the Law of
Nations. United States v. Rodgers, 150 U.S. 249; Queen
v. Anderson, L.R. 1 Crown Cases Reserved 161; Queen v.
Carrand Wilson, 10 Q.B.D. 76; Fiore's Internat. L. Codified (trans. by E. M. Borchard), pp. 192, 193; 6th English
ed., Wheaton's Internat. L., I, 245; Hall, Internat. L.
-8th ed., p. 258; Moore, Internat. Law Digest, II, p. 297.
Mr. John V. Lovitt for appellee.
The criminal jurisdiction of the United States is based
upon the territorial principle. United States v. Bowman,
260 U.S. 94, 98; Moore, Dig. Internat. L., vol. 2, p. 263.
A vessel is part of the territory of the nation whose flag
she flies only in a metaphoric sense. Wharton, Internat.
L., 2d ed., vol. 1, §35a; Woolsey, §54; Field, Code, § 309.
Distinguishing: King v. Bruce, 2 Leach 353; Queen v.
Carr, L.R., 10 QB.D. 76; Queen v. Anderson, L.R. 1
Crown Cases Reserved 161; Crowell v. Benson, 285 U.S.
241; ana PanamaR. Co. v. Johnson, 264 U.S. 375. See
Jessup, Law of Territorial Waters, p. 119; Wildenhus's
Case, 120 U.S. 1.
The prior legislation now embodied in § 272 of the
Criminal Code and the interpretation of these statutes by
the Court show that Congress did not intend to depart
from the territorial principle and punish murder committed within the territorial jurisdiction of another sovereign. De Lovio v. Boit, 7 Fed. Cas. 418; United States
v. Coombs, 12 Pet. 70; IUnited States v. McGill, 4 Dall.
424, 427; United States v. Bevans, 3 Wheat. 336, 388;

,OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for Appellee.

289 U.S.

United States v. Wiltberger, 5 Wheat. 76; Wynne v.
United States, 217 U.S. 234, 241, 244. Distinguishing:
United States v. Rodgers, 150 U.S. 249, 258, 266; U. S. ex
rel. Maro v. Mathues 21 F. (2d) 533, 534; Mathues v.
U. S. ex rel. Maro, 27 F. (2d) 518.
We are here d~aling with the criminal jurisdiction of
the district courts which is entirely distinct from the
admiralty courts' jurisdiction over contracts and torts and
other special cases. Cf. Waring v. Clarke, 5 How. 441,
.454, 464; Genesee Chief v. Fitzhugh, 12 How. 443, 454.
If we assume that all navigable waters are comprehended by the phrase "admiralty and maritime
jurisdiction" in the Criminal Code, the jurisdiction Will
be absurdly extended. Such a construction would cover
a crime committed on a foreign ship by a foreigner against
another foreigner in any navigable river on the" globe
(excepting only waters within the jurisdiction of a State
of the JJnited States.) Furthermore, if this were so, th&
third clause of the section referring to crimes committed
on an American vessel would have no meaning since the
case would be covered by the second clause.
Obviously, the general words of the statute must be
limited to the jurisdiction of the sovereign and the intended objects of the legislation. United States v.Palmer,
3 Wheat. 610.
If in the statute of 1825 the general provision was to
operate within a foreign jurisdiction, there would be no
need for the limited jurisdiction over certain offenses
committed on American ships covered by § 5, which sction by its very terms applies to foreign ports. The conclusion. therefore seems irresistible that the general
.provision did not contemplate a foreign port and since
thw general phraseology is carried into the present Act, its
construction must be the same as it was in prior Acts.
The provision respecting crimes on American vessels
irl the Revised Statutes and in the Criminal Code is like-

UNITED STATES v. FLORES.
137

Argument for Appellee.

wise generalized and not limited to the personnel of the
ship or its internal regulation. Congress must have been
aware that under previous legislation the only crimes in a
fbreign port made punishable were those under § 5 of the
Act of 1825., Can it be said that by dropping the express
language extending the jurisdiction to a foreign port,
Congress intended to assert greater jurisdiction -in such a
port.0 Failure to state expressly an extraterritorial operation of a criminal statute negatives the purpose of
Congress in this regard. United States v. Bowman, 260
U.S. 94, 98.
Every principle which takes out of the operatiol of the
Acts of Congress crimes committed by Americans on
foreign vessels on the high seas, applies with greater force
to offenses committed within the acknowledged and .fixed
territorial limitsof a foreign State, because it is dependent
entirely on the national character of the, place of the
offense, and can not, by any sound reasoning; reach that
which is territorial by implication only, and yet be
excluded from that whih is actual territory.
It is submitted that at most, Congress, by the broad
phraseology of the Criminal Code covering offenses commited on American ships, intended no enlargement of the
jurisdiction given by § 5 of the Act of March 3, 1825, c. 65,
in foreign ports. Such jurisdiction would not cover the
case at bar because it is not alleged in the indictment that
the defendant and the deceased were members of the crew
or passengers. Only such a construction would bring the
statute into conformity with international law and the
territorial principle of criminal jurisdiction as applied by
the federal courts.
Criminal statutes must be 6onstrued strictly and the
phrase "admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of the
United States" must be construed as including those
places where that jurisdiction is complete-where, as a
matter of absolute right, the executive officers of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 US.

Government can enforce the laws and make arrestswhere no other sovereign has jurisdiction. This applies
externally only to the "high seas" or waters which are in
their nature high seas over which no one nation can
exercise exclusive dominion. 7 Op.A.G. 721.
The grant of legislative power to Congress to define and
punish felonies committed on waters rests on Art. I, § 8,
cl. 10, of the Constitution and the Criminal Code must
be construed with reference to the constitutional grant.
Congress is given no grant of legislative power over the
substantive maritime law. The grant of jurisdiction of
admi.-alty and maritime cases occurs in an entirely separate article and it is submitted that the concluding paragraph of Art. I, giving Congress the right "to make all
laws which shall be necessary and proper," etc. has no
direct application to § 2 of Art. III, since -this section
merelj transferred the existing admiralty jurisdiction residing in the States under the Articles of Confederation
to the Federal Government. "Authority of Congress
under this clause of the Constitution does not extend to
punishing offenses committed above and beyond high
water mark." United States v. Coombs, 12 Pet. 72, 78;
United States v. McGill, 4 Dall. 424; U. S. ex rel. Maro v.
Mathues, 21 .,-(2d) 533; Mathue8 v. U. S. ex rel. Maro,
27 F. (2d) 518.
Where a power is given in express terms, Congress can
not ignore the express power and infer the same power
without 'limitation from some other, provision in which
the power is not expressed. People v. Tyler, 7
Mich. 162.
MR.

JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.

By indictment found in the District Court for Eastern
*Pennsylvania, it was charged that appellee, a citizen of
the United States, murdered another citizen of the United
States , upon the S.S., "Padnsay," an American vessel,

UNITED STATES v. FLORES.
137

Opinion of the Court.

while at anchor in the Port of Matadi, in the Belgian
Congo, a place subject to the sovereignty of the Kingdom
of Belgium, and that appellee, after the commission of
the crime, was first brought into the Port of Philadelphia,
a place within the territorial jurisdiction of the District
Court. By stipulation it was conceded, as though stated
in a bill of particulars, that the "Padnsay," at the time
of the offense charged, was unloading, being attached
to the shore by cables, at a point two hundred and fifty
miles inland from the mouth of the Congo River.
The District Court, following its earlier decision in
United States ex rel. Maro v. Mathues, 21 F. (2d) 533,
affirmed, 27 F. (2d) 518, sustained a demurrer to the
indictment and discharged the 'prisoner on the ground
that the court was without jurisdiction to try the offense
charged. The case comes here by direct appeal under
the Act of March 2, 1907, c. 2564, 34 Stat. 1264, 18 U.S.C.
§ 682 and § 238 of the Judicial Code, as amended by Act
of February 13, 1925, 28 U.S.C. § 345, the court below
certifying that its decision was founded upon its construction of § 272 of the Criminal Code, 18 U.S.C. § 451.
Sections 273 and 275 of the Criminal Code,' 18 U.S.C.
§§ 452, 454, define murder and fix its punishment. Section 272,1 upon the construction of which the cdurt below
rested its decision, makes punishable offenses defined by
other sections of the Criminal Code, among other cases.
'§ 272. "The crimes and offenses defined in this chapter shall
be punished as herein prescribed:
"First: When committed upon the high seas, or on any other
waters within the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of the United
States and out of the jurisdiction of any particular State, or when
committed within the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of the
United States and out of the jurisdiction of any particular State on
board any vessel belonging in whole or in part to the United States or
any citizen thereof, or to any corporation created by or under the

laws of the United States, or of any State, Territory, or District
thereof. . .
.
15450--33-10

146,

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 US.

"when committed within the admiralty and maritime
jurisdiction of the United States and out of the jurisdiction of any particular state, on board any vessel belonging in whole or in part to the United States" or any of its
nationals. And by § 41 of the Judicial Code, 28 U.S.C.
§ 102, venue to try offenses "committed upon the high
seas or elsewhere out of the jurisdiction of any particular
State or district," is "in the district where the offender
is found or into which he is first brought." As the offense
charged here was committed on board a vessel lying outside the territorial jurisdiction of a state, see Wynne v,
United States, 217 U.S. 234; United States v. Rodgers,
150 U.S. 249, 265, and within that of a foreign sovereignty,
the court below was without jurisdiction to try and
punish the offense unless it was within the admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction of the United States.
Two questions are presented 'on this appeal, first,
whether-the extension of the judicial power of the federal
government "to all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction," by Art. III, § 2 of the Constitution confers on
Congress power to define and punish offenses perpetrated
by a citizen of the United States on board one of its merchant vessels lying in navigable waters within the territorial limits of another sovereignty; and second, whether
Congress has exercised that power by the enactment of
§ 272 of the Criminal Code urider which 'the indictment
was found.
The court below thought, as appellee argues, that as§ 8 of Art. I of the Constitution specifically granted to
Congress the power "to define and punish piracies and
felonies committed on the high seas, and offenses against
the law of nations," and "-to make rules concerning captures on land and water," that provision must be regarded
as a limitation on the general provision of § 2 of Art. III,
that. the judicial power shall extend "to all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction "; that as the specific

UNITED STATES v. FLORES.
137

Opinion of .the Court.

grant of power to punish offenses outside the territorial
limits of the United States was thus restricted to offenses
occurring on the high seas, the more. general grant could
not be resorted to as extending either the legislative or
judicial power over offenses committed on vessels outside the 'territorial limits of the United States and not on
the high seas.'
Before the adoption of the Constitution, jurisdiction in
admiralty and maritime cases was distributed between
the Confederation and the individual States. Article IX
of the Articles of Confederation provided that "the
Urited States, in Congress assembled, shall have the sole
and exclusive right and power ... of establishing rules
for deciding in all eases what captures on land or water
shall be legal, ...
appointing courts for the trial of piraon the high seas and estabcommitted
cies and felonies
lishing courts for receiving and determining finally appeals
in all cases of captures . . ." So much of the general
admiralty and maritime jurisdiction as was not included
in this grant of power remained with the States. The
powers thus granted were in substance the same as those
later conferred on the national government by Article I,
§ 8 of the Federal Constitution, This section was adopted
to carry out a resolution of the Convention "that the
national legislature ought to possess the legislative rights
vested in .Congress by the Confederation." Its primary
purpose and effect were to transfer to the newly organized
government the powers in admiralty matters previously
vested in the Confederation.2
'On July 16, 1787, the Convention agreed nem. con. "that the
national legislature ought to possess the legislative rights vested n
Congress by the Confederation." This proposal was committed to
the Committee of Detail in resolution VI, of July 26th. The Committee, on August 6th in Article VII of their draft, recommended a
provision, based on the articles of Confederation, which, as formulated
by the Convention on August 17th, and amended in matters not now

148

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 UB.

A proposal independently made and considered in the
Convention that "the admiralty jurisdiction ought,to be
given wholly to the national government," resulted in the
adoption of Article III, § 2, by which the judicial power
of the United States was extended to all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction.'
This section has been consistently interpreted as adopting for the United States the system of admiralty and
maritime law, as it had been developed in the admiralty
courts of England and the 'Colonies, and, by implication,
conferring on Congress the power, subject to well recognized limitations not here material,' to alter, qualify, or
material by the Committee on Style, was included in Article I, § 8,
of the Constitution. See Madison's Diary, International Edition, pp.
260, 333, 340, 341, 415, 416.
'On June 5, 1787, Wilson stated tV the Convention that he thought
the admiralty, jurisdiction should be given wholly to the national
government. Rtesolution XVI, which was referred to the Committee
on Detail on July 26th, provided that the jurisdiction of the national
judiciary "shall extend to cases arising under laws passed by the
general legislature and to such other questions as involve the natural
peace and harmony." Wilson was one. of the five member of the
Committee on Detail, chosen on -July 24th, which reported, August
6th, Article XI, dealing with the jurisdiction of 'federal courts, and
containing in § 3 a provision extending the jurisdiction of the Suprenme
Court "to all cases of admiraliy and maritime jurisdiction," whi ch.
was ultimately incorporated in § 2 of Article III of the Constitution,
as finally adopted. Madison's Diary, International Edition, pp. 61,
336, 317, 318, 344.
In Panama R. Co. v. Johnson, 264 U.S. 375, 386, 387, the (qourt
said: "When all is considered, therefore, there is no room to doubt
that the power of Congress extends to the entire subject and permits
of the exercise of a wide discretion. But there are limitations which
have come to be well recognized. One is that there are boundaries to
the maritime law and admiralty jurisdiction which inhere in those
subjects and cannot be altered by legislation, as by excluding a thing
falling clearly withip them or including a thing falling clearly without.
Another is that the spirit and purpose of the constitutional provision
require that the enactments,--when not relating to matters whose

UNITED STATES v. FLORES.
137

Opinion of the Court.

supplement it as experience or changing conditions may
require. Panama R. Co. v. Johnson, 264 U.S. 375, 386,
388; Crowell v. Benson, 285 U.S. 22, 39; see The Oconee,
280 Fed. 927; United States v. Bevans, 3 Wheat. 336, 389.
In view of the history of the two clauses and the manner of their adoption, the grant of pov-er to define and
punish piracies and felonies on the high seas cannot be
deemed to be a limitation on the powers, either legislative or judicial; conferred on the national government by
Article III, § 2. The two clauses are the result of separate steps independently taken in the Convention, by
which the jurisdiction in admiralty, previously divided
between, the Confederation and the States, was transferred to the national government. It would be a surprisipg result, and one plainly not anticipated by the
framers or justified by principles which ought to govern
the interpretation of a constitution devoted to the redistril~ution of governmental powers, if part of them were
lost in the process of transfer. To construe the one'clause
as limiting rather than supplementing the other would be
to ignore their history, and without effecting any discernible purpose of their enactment, to deny to both the states
and the national government powers which were common
,attributes of sovereignty before the adoption of the Constitution. The result would be to deny to both the power
to define and punish crimes of less gravity than felonies
committed on vessels of the United States while on the
existence or influence is confined to a more, restricted field, as in
Cooley v. Board of Wardens, 12 How. 299, 319,-hall be coextensive
with and operate uniformly in the whlbole of the United States. Waring v. Clarke, 5 How. 441, 457; Te Lottawanna, 21 Wall. 558, 574,
577; Butler v. Boston & Savannah.S.S. Co., 130 U.S. 527, 556, 557;

In re Garnett, 141 U.S. 1, 12; Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen, 244 U.S.
205, 215; Knickerbocker Ice Co. v. Stewart, .253 U.S. 149, 164;
Washington v. Dawson & Co., 264 U.S. 219; 2 Story Const., 5th ed.,
§§ 1663, 1664, 1672."

150

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

high seas, and crimes of every grade 0ornmitted on them
while in foreign territorial waters.
As we cannot say that the specific grant of power to
define and punish felonies on the high seas operated to
.curtail the legislative or judicial power conferred by Art.
III, § 2, we come to the question principally argued,
whether the jurisdiction over admiralty and maritime
cases, which it gave, extends to the punishment of crimes
committed on vessels of the United States while in foreign waters. As was pointed out by Mr. Justice Story, in
the course of an elaborate review of the history of admiralty jurisdiction, in DeLovio v. Boit, 7 Fed. Cas. 418, 438,
-admiralty "from the highest antiquity has exercised a
very extensive criminal jurisdiction and punished offenses
The English courts have
by fine and imprisonment."
'In England, serious offenses committed "upon the sea, or in any
other haven, river, creek or place where the admiral or admirals
have or pretend to have power, authority or jurisdiction " were,
after the statutes 27 Henry VIII, c. 4, and 28 Henry VIII, c. 15, tried
according to the course of the common law before specially constituted admiralty couits, the judges of which were designated to
sit' by the Lord Chancellor. They were often coinmon law judges
who sat as commissioners for the trial of crimes 'ithin the admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction. Holdsworth, History of Engliish Law, 3d
ed., Vol. I, 550-552; Hale, Pleas of the Crown, Vol. II, 17; Stephen,History of Criminal Law of England, Vol. II, 16-23; cf. Brooks,

Trial of Captain Kidd, 40, 57. There is evidence that during the
seventeenth century the courts of Virginia and Maryland tried
felonies and piracies which, in England, would have been within the
jurisdiction of the Admiralty Commissioners. See Crump, Colonial
Admiralty Jurisdictibn in the Seventeenth Century, 68. 'The practice
under the statute, 28 Henry VIII, c. 15, was extended to the Colonies
in cases of "piracy, felonies and robberies," by statute 11 and 12
William III, c. 7. See 2 Stephen, supra, 20. In Virginia, very shortly

before the enactment of this statute, an act was passed adopting the
provisions of the statute of Henry VIII. 3 Hening, Statutes at
Large of Virginia, 176. For instances of minor offenses prosecuted in
the Colonial Courts of Vice-Admiralty in the eighteenth century,
see Hough's Cases in Vice-Admiralty nd Admiralty: King v. .Booth

UNITED STATES v. FLORES
137

11

Opinion of the Court.

consistently held that jurisdiction is not restricted to ves-,
sels within the navigable waters of the realm, but follows
its ships upon the high seas and into. ports and rivers
within the territorial jurisdiction of foreign sovereigns.
Queen v. Carr & Wilson, 10 Q.B.D. 76; Queen V. Anderson, 'L.R. 1 Crown Cases Reserved 1.61; Rex v. Allen, 1
Moody C.C. 494; see Rex v. Jemot, 1 Russell on Crimes,
4th ed. 153.
The criminal jurisdiction of the United States is wholly
statutory, see United States v. Hudson, 7 Cranch 32,. but
it has never been doubted that the grant of admiraltyand
maritime jurisdiction to the federal government includes
the legislative power to define and punish crimes committed upon vessels lying in navigable waters of the
United States. From the very organization of the government, and without intermission, Congress has also asserted the power, analogous to that exercised by'English
courts of admiralty, to punish crimes committed oi vessels of the United States while on 'the high seas or on
navigable waters not within the territorial jurisdiction of
(1730), p. 12; King v. Burgess (1748), p. 56; King v. White (1754),
p. 81. Eighteenth century Vice-Admiralty cornmssi6ns in the Colonies
contain verbal grants of jurisdiction over crimes within the admiralty
juxidiction. Publications of Colonial Society of Massachusetts, vol. II,
237,238; Benedict on Admiralty, 5th ed., 787-811; Record Book of
Maryland Court bf Vice-Admiralty in Manuscripts Division of the
Library of Congress, fols. 74, 82. And there is evidence of the trial of
piracies in the Colonies, see Jameson, Privateering find Piracy in the
Colonial Period, pp. 143, 278, note 1, 2S6, note 1; and see 577 to 580.
Compare Rhode Island: Letters from Governors in America, 1756,
P.R.O.: CO. 5: 17, p. 639 (Ms. copy in Library of Congress), which
indicates a trial at Providence for murder on the high seas in a special
admiralty court constituted under the statute 11 and 12 William III.
Captain Kidd, who was arrested in Boston prior to 1700 for murder
and piracy on the high seas, was transported to England for trial
before an admiralty court- organized pursuant to royal commission
(see 14 Howell's State Trials, 123, 147, 191) and this practice may
well have continued after the statute of William III.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 US.

a State. The Act of April 30, 1790, c. 9, § 8, 1 Stat. 112,
113, provided for the punishment of murder committed
"upon the high seas or in any river, haven, basin or bay
out of the jurisdiction of any particular state," and pro-.
vided for the trial of the offender in the district where he
might be apprehended or "into which he may first be
brought." Section 12 of this Act dealt with manslaughter, but only when committed upon the. high seas.
It is true that in United States v. Bevans, 3 Wheat. 336,
the prisoner, charged with murder on a warship in Boston
Harbor, was. discharged, as was one charged with manslaughter committed or a vessel on a Chinese River in
United States v. Wiltberger, 5 Wheat. 76. But the judgments were based not upon a want of power in Congress
to define and punish the crimes charged, but upon the
ground that the statute did not apply, in the one case,
for the reason that the place of the offense was not out of
the jurisdiction of a state, and in the other, because the
offense, manslaughter, was not committed on the high
8
seas.
The Act of March 3, 1825, c. 65, § 4, 4 Stat. 115, provided for the punishment of any person committing murder "upon the high seas or in any arm of the sea or in
any river, haven, creek, basin or bay, within the admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction of the United States and out of
the jurisdiction of any particular state," and § 22 provided for the punishment of- assault with a dangerous
'In United States v. McGill, 4 Dall. 426, Mr. Justice Washington,
sitting in the Circuit Court in a case where the offense charged wai
murder committed on a vessel lying in the haven of Cape Francois,
held that the statute did not apply where the mortal stroke was given

on the vessel, but the death occurred on shore, since the murder was
not committed on the high seas or any river, basin or bay. He
doubted whether the offense thus committed was cognizable in admiralty in the absence of statute, but stated he had no doubt of the
power of Congress to provide for it.

UNITED STATES v. FLORES.
137

Opinion of the Court.

weapon, committed under similar circumstances." The
provisions of the latter section, carried into § 5346 of the
Revised Statutes, were upheld in United States v. Rodgers, supra, as a constitutional exercise of the power of
Congress to define and punish offenses occurring in
American vessels while within territorial waters of another sovereignty. Rodgers had been convicted of assault with a dangerous weapon, committed on a vessel of
the United States lying in the Detroit River within the
territorial jurisdiction of Canada, and his conviction was
sustained by this Court. It was assumed that the statute was applicable only with respect to offenses committed on the high seas and waters tributary to them, and
the decision turned on whether the Great Lakes were to
be deemed "high seas" within the meaning of the statute.
It was held that they were, and the power of Congress to
punish offenses committed on an American vessel within
the territorial waters of Canada, tributary to the Lakes,
was expressly affirmed.
As the offense charged here appears to have been committed on an American vessel while discharging cargo in
port, the jurisdiction is not affected by the fact that she
By § 5, the provisions of the act of 1825 were specifically made
applicable to any offense "commitied on board of any, ship or vessel,
belonging to any citizen or citizens of the United States, while lying
in a port or place within the jurisdiction of any foreign state or
sovereign, by any person belonging to the company of said ship, or
any passenger, on any. other person belonging to the company of
said ship, or any other. passenger . . ." This language was not, in
terms, incorporated in the Revised Statutes.
Daniel Webster, Chairman of the House Committee having in
charge the bill which became the Act of 1825, pointed out in introducing it that the offenses for which .it provided punishment had
actually occurred upon our ships, while lying in the harbors of
foreign nations and had gone unpunished for want of such legislation. Gall & Seaton's Register of Debates in Congress, Vol. 1, cols.
154, 158.

154

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

was then at a point on the Congo remote from the sea,
where it does not affirmatively appear'that the water is
salt or tidal. On this point also United Statesv. Rodgers,
supra,is controlling, for there the offepse committed within a foreign territorial jurisdiction was upon non-tidal
fresh water2
That the jurisdiction in admiralty "extends as far as the tide
ebbs and flows "' was a convenient definition of its limits in the historic
controversy over the conflictin* claims of jurisdiction of the English
courts of common law and admiralty over waters within the realm
(see DeLoviav. Boit, 7 Fed. Cas. 418,428; compare Waring v. Clarke,
5 How. 441, 453; United States v. 'Coombs, 12 Pet.'72; Manchester v.
Massachusetts, 139 U. S. 240), a conflict which was but an aspect
of the struggle for supremacy of the common 'law and the prerogative
courts. Cf.' Julius Goebel, Cases and Materials on the Development
of Legal Institutions (1931), 225. But it is a very different question
whether the traditional jurisdiction of admiralty conferred upon the
United States by the Constitution, extends to non-tidal waters. In
England public navigable waters are tidal, and with respect to them
the terms have been used interchangeably. But there is nothing in
the nature of maritime transactions or the maritime law, which is
concerned with the affairs of vessels and those who sail, own, use or
injure them, which, need limit its application to tidal waters. See
Benedict on Admiralty, 5th ed., §§ 39, 43. This was recognized and

acted upon by the Vice-Admiralty Courts in the Colonies.

See

Waring v. Clarke, supra, 454, 455, 456. In Queen v. Anderson, L. R. 1

Crown Cases Reserved 161, Mr. Justice Blackburn, in upholding the
admiralty jurisdiction over manslaughter committed on a British
ship forty-five miles up the River Garronne, said, p. 169, that "the
jurisdiction of the Admiralty extends over vessels, not only when
they are on the open sea, but also when in places where great ships
do generally go." And in Rex v. Allen, 1 Moody C. C. 494, the
judg6s of England upheld the admiralty jurisdiction of the crime of
larceny committed on a British vessel on a Chinese river, twenty or
thirty miles from the sea, although it did not appear that the water
was tidal. Following the decision in The Genesee Chief, 12 How. 443,
that there Was' constitutional power in Congress to extend the admiralty jurisdiction to non-tidal waters of the United States navigable
in fact, civil jurisdiction of admiralty over a collision occurring in the
non-tidal waters of the Detroit River within the territorial jurisdiction

UNITED STATES v. FLORES.
137

Opinion of the Court.

The appellee insists that even though -Congress has
power to define and punish crimes on American vessels
in foreign waters, it has not done so by the present statute since the criminal jurisdiction of the United States is
based upon the territorial principle and the statute cannot
rightly be interpreted to be a departure from that principle. But the language of the statute making it applicable to offenses committed on an American vessel outside the jurisdiction of a State "within the admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction of the United States" is broad
enough-to include crimes in the territorial waters of a foreign sovereignty. For Congress, by incorporating in the
statute the very language of the constitutional grant of
power, has made its exercise of the power co-extensive
with the grant. Compare The Hine v. Trevor, 4 Wall.
555.
It is true that the criminal jurisdiction of the United
States is in general based on the territorial principle, and
criminal statutes of the United States are not by implication given an extra-territorial effect. United States v.
Bowman, 260 U.S. 94, 98; compare Blackmer v. United
States, 284 U.S. 421. But that principle has never been
thought' to be applicable to a merchant vessel which, for
purposes of: the jurisdi~tion of the courts of the sovereignty whose flag it flies to punish crimes committed upon
it; is deemed to be a part of the territory of that sovereignty, and not to lose that character when in navigable
of Canada, was sustained in The Eagle, 8 Wall. 15, and a like jurisdiction over a crime defined and punished by Act of Congress was
sustained in United States v. Rodgers, 150 U. S. 249. See also Jack8A v. The Magnolia, 20 How. 296; The Hine v. Trevor, 4 Wall. 555;
and In re Garnett, 141 U. S.1, 17, 18, whereMr. Justice Bradley said,

p. 18, that "we have no hesitation in saying that the Savannah River
from its mouth to the highest point to which it is navigable is subject
to the -maritime law and the admiralty jurisdiction of the United

States."

156

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

(waters within the territorial limits of another sovereignty.
United States v. Rodgers, supra;compare Thomas v. Lane,
2 Sumner 1; Queen v. Anderson, supra; Queen v. Carr &
Wilson, supra; Rex v. Allen, supra;Rex. v. Jemot, supra.
This qualification of the territorial principle in' the case
of vessels of the flag was urged by Mr. Webster while

Secretary of State, in his letterto Lord Ashburton " of
August 1, 1842, quoted with approval in United States v.
"' It is natural to consider the vessels of a ntion as parts of its
territory, though at sea, as the State retains its jurisdiction over them;
and, according to the commonly received custom, this jurisdiction is
preserved over the vessels even in parts of the sea subject to a foreipn
dominion. This is the doctrine bf the law of natiois, clearly laid down
by writers of received authority, and entirely conformable, as it is
supposed, with 'the practice of modem nations. If a murder be committed on board of an American vessel by one of the crew, upon
another or upon h'passenger, or'by a passenger on one of the crew
or apother passenger, while such vessel is lying in a port within the
jurisdiction of a foreign State or sovereignty, the offense is cognizable
and punishable by the proper court of the United States in the same
manner as if such offence had been committed on' board the vessel
on the high seas. The law of England is supposed to be the same.
It is true that the jurisdiction of a nation over a vessel belinging to
it, while lying in the port of another, is, not necessarily wholly exclusive. We do not so consider or so ,assert it. For any unlawful acts
done by her while thus lying in port, and for all contracts entered
into while there, ,by her master or owners, she and they must, doubtless, be answerable to the laws of the place. Nor, if her master or
crew, while on board'in such port, break the peace of the community
by the commission of crimes, can exemption be claimed for them.
But, nevertheless, the law of nations, as I have stated it, and the
statutes, of governments founded on that law, as I have referred to
them, show that enlightened nations, in modem times, do clearly
hold that the jurisdiction and laws of a nation accompany her ships
not only over the high seas, but into ports and harbors, or wheresoever else they may be water-borne, for the general purpose of governing, and regulating the rights, duties, and obligations of those on
board thereof, and that, to the extent of the exercise :of this jurisdiction, they are considered as parts of the territory of the nation
herself." 6 Webster's Works, 306,'307.

UNITED STATES v. FLORES.
137

Opinion of the Court.

Rodgers, supra, 264, 265. Subject to the right' of the
territorial sovereignty to assert jurisdiction over offenses
disturbing the peace of the port, it has been supported
by writers on international law, and has been recognized
by France, Belgium, and other continental countries, as
well as by England and the United States. See Moore,
International Law Digest, Vol. 2, 287, 297; Fiore, International Law Codified, translated by E. M. Borchard, 192,
193; Wheaton, Internatiopal Law, Vol. I, 245; 'Hall, International Law, 8th ed. 253-258, Jessup, The Law of
Territorial Waters, 144-193.
In view of the wide recognition of this principle of
extra-territorial jurisdiction over crimes committed on
merchant vessels and its explicit adoption in United
States v. Rodgers, supra, we cannot say that the language
of the present statute punishing offenses on United States
vessels out of the jurisdiction of a State, "when com'hitted within the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of
the United States," was not intended to give effect to it.
If the meaning of the statute were .doubtful, the doubt
would be resolved by the report on these sections by the
Special Joint Committee on the Revision of the Laws,
60th Congress, 1st Sess., Rep. 10, part 1, p. 10, in which
it was pointed out that the jurisdiction extends to vessels
of the United States when on navigable waters within the
limits of a foreign state, and "all cases arising on board
such vessels while on any such waters, are clearly cases
within the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of the
United States."
I A related but different question, not presented here,
may arise when jurisdiction over an offense committed on
a foreign vessel is asserted by the sovereignty in whose
waters it was lying at. the time of its commission, since
for some purposes the jurisdiction may be regarded as
concurrent, in that the courts of either sovereignty may
try the offense.

158

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 Us.

There is not entire agreement among nations or the
writers on international law as to which sovereignty
should yield to the other when the jurisdiction is asserted
by both. See Jessup, the Law of Territorial Waters, 144193. The position of the United States, exemplified in
Wildenhus's Case, 120 U. S. 1, has been that at least in
the case of major crimes, affecting the peace and tranquillity of the port, the jurisdiction asserted by the.sovereignty of the port must prevail over that of the vessel. In
that case the Belgian Consul sought release on habeas
corpus of Wildenhus, a seaman, who was held in a New
Jersey jail on a charge of homicide committed on a Belgian
vessel lying in New Jersey waters, on the ground that
Article XI of the Convention between Belgium and the
United States of March 9, 1880,. 21 Stat. 781, gave consular officers of the sovereignty of the vessel sole cognizance of offenses on board ship, except those of a nature
to disturb the tranq'uillity and public order on shore and
those involving a person not belonging to the crew. The
court construed the Convention as inapplicable to. the
prime of murder and upheld the jurisdiction of the local
court as conforming to the principles of international law.
It said, p. 12:
"And so by comity it came to be generally'understood
among civilized nations that all matters of discipline" and
all 'things done on board which affected only the vessel
or those belonging to her, and did not involve the peace or
dignity of the country, or the tranquillity of the port,
should be left by the local government to be dealt with
by the authorities of the nation to which the vessel belonged as the laws of that nation or, the interests of its
commerce should require. But if crimes are committed on
board of a character to disturb the peace and tranquillity
of the country to which the vessel has been brought, the
offenders have never by comity or usage been entitled to
any exemption from the operation of the local laws for
their punishment, if the local tribunals see fit to assert
their authority."

UNITED STATES v. BURROUGHS.
137

Syllabus.

This doctrine does not impinge on that laid down in
United States v. Rodgers, supra, that the United States
may define and punish offenses committed by its &wn
citizens on its own vessels while within foreign waters
where the local sovereign has not .asserted its jurisdiction.10 In the absence of any controlling treaty provision, and any assertion of jurisdiction by the territorial
sovereign, it is the duty of the courts of the United States
to apply to offenses committed by its citizens on vessels
flying its flag, its own statutes, interpreted in the light
of recognized principles of international law. So applied
the indictment here sufficiently charges an offense within
the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of the United
States and the judgment below must be
Reversed.

UNITED STATES v. BURROUGHS
CANNON, JR.

AND

JAMES

CERTIFICATE FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA

No. 683.

Argued March 14, 15, 1933.-Decided April 10, 1933

1. Under § 935 of the Code of Laws for the District of Columbia,
passed in 1901, the Court of Appeals of the District has jurisdiction
of an appeal by the United States from a judgment of the Supreme
Court of the District which sustained a demurrer to an indictment
on two grounds, one. involving a construction of the statute on
which the indictment was founded, and the other a constrution
of the indictment; and on such *appeal the ruling of the trial court
based on the construction of the statute is reviewable. P. 161..
2. The Criminal Appeals Act, passed in 1907, providing for direct
review by this Court of decisions of the "district or circuit courts"
quashing indictments when based upon the invalidity or construction of the statutes upon which the indictments are founded, etc.,
SThat the doctrines are not in conflict was pointed out by Webster
in his letter to Lord Ashburton, quoted supra note 9.
International Law, 8th ed., 255-256.

See also Hall,

