TRANSIT COMMISSION v. U.S.
113

Syllabus.

U.S. 47, and Claiborne-AnnapolisFerry v. United States,
285 U.S. 382. In each of these a carrier brought suit to
set aside an order of the Commission. No question of its
capacity to sue was involved. The order assailed directly
affected its transportation business.
Here plaintiffs have neither capacity to sue nor legal
interest or right affected by the order.
Affirmed.
TRANSIT COMMISSION ET AL. v. UNITED STATES
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK

No. 535.

Argued. March 13, 14, 1933.-Decided April 10, 1933

1. By paragraphs 18-20 of § 1 of the Interstate Commerce Act
(added by the Transportation Act, 1920), Congress intended to
confer on the Interstate Commerce Commission plenary power to
limit the expenditures of interstate carriers for construction or
operation to lines of railroad reasonably necessary for the service
of the public. P. 127.
2. The Act is to be construed so that this authority may be fully
effective. P. 128.
3. Extension of the traffic of' an interstate carrier beyond its own
terminus over the line and to and from the terminus of another
carrier, under a trackage agreement allowing it the use of these
facilities jointly with their owner, is an "extension" of the railroad of the lessee or licensee and an "operation of a line of railroad" by it, within the meaning of § 1 (18) of the Interstate
Commerce Act; and the making of such agreement and its terms,
including the rental, are subject to the jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce Commission to the exclusion of state authority.
P. 128.
4. Where such joint use began before the date of the Transportation
Act under 'anagreement approved by the State, and was continued
after that date and after 'the agreement had expired, the arrangement, and, the terms of a new agreement for it, necessarily fell
within the provisions of § 1 (18). P. 129.
1 F.Supp, 595, affirmed.

122

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for Appellants.

289 US.

APPAL from a decree of the District Court of three
judges denying a preliminary, injunction and dismissing

the bill in a suit to set aside an order of the Interstate
Commerce Commission.
Mr. George H. Stover, with whom Messrs. John J. Bennett, Jr., Wendell P. Brown, and Philip Hode8 were on
the brief, for appellants.
Section 1 (18) of the Interstate Commerce Act confers
jurisdiction over the making, by an interstate carrier, of
additions to its own -line, through construction or acquisi
tion, and over the operation of lines so added, but not
over the mere use by such carrier jointly with the owner,
of existing lines of another interstate carrier.
The intent of Congress was to guard against the unnecessary building or acquisition of additional lines, the construction or operation of which might strain the resources
of the owner or weaken its competitors.
. The statements by those in charge of the Transportation Act in Congress confirm the view that the purpose
of § 1 (18) was merely, by restricting construction, to
prevent the unnecessary duplication of existing facilities.
H.Rep. No. 456, 66th Cong., 1st Sess.; 58 Cong. Rec., pp.
8309-8319; 59 Cong. Rec., pp. 748-750, 862-863.
The previous attitude of the Interstate Commerce
Commission did not give rise to a practical construction
which can be considered in construing the plain language
of the statute.
The provisions of § 1 (18) are not retroactive; and,
even assuming that they apply to operation under trackage rights, do not apply to operation begun ten years
before the paragraph was enacted and carried on continuously ever since.
If the Commission did have jurisdiction, it would extend merely to the granting of the certificate; and the
matter of controlling the contractual rights and obligations of the parties would remain with the State.

TRANSIT COMMISSION v. U.S.
121

Opinion of the Court.

The court below erred in holding that the Long Island,
in operating under the trackage rights, was operating a
line of railroad, and was extending its line of railroad; and
that jurisdiction was properly assumed by the Interstate
Commerce Commission, because the Long Island, when
running its trains under the proposed trackage agreement, would be preventing an abandonment.
Mr. John Lord O'Brian, with whom Solicitor General
Thacher and Messrs. Charles H. Weston, Hammond E.
Chaffetz, Daniel W. Knowlton, and H. L. Underwood
were on the brief, for the United States and Interstate
Commerce Commission, appellees.
Mr. Alfred A. Gardner, with whom Messrs. D. P. Wil'liams and Joseph F. Keany were on the brief, for the
Pennsylvania and Long Island Railroad Companies, appellees.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
Each appellant sued the United States and the railroad
companies to set aside an order made by the Interstate
Commerce Commission under § 1 (18) of the Interstate
Commerce Act. The Coin mission intervened. The order
certifies that the present and future public convenience
and necessity require that upon terms specified the Long
Island continue to operate over tracks, and to share in the
use of other facilities, of the Pennsylvania Tunnel and
Terminal Railroad Company. Appellants applied for a
temporary injunction, the cases were consolidated, the
evidence before the Commission was introduced and, the
cases having been submitted on such application and upon
the merits, thp court made findings of fact, stated its conclusions of law and entered a decree that the preliminary
injunction be denied and that the -bills be dismissed.
1 F. Supp. 595.

124

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

Appellants contend that the use by thi Long Island of
the terminal company's tracks and facilities is not within
the jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce Commission
but is governed by § 148 of the New York Railroad Law.
That section provides that, subject to the permission and
approval of the public service commission (the transit
commission is its successor), any corporation owning or
operating a railroad route may contract with any other
such corporation for the use of their respective roads.
And appellants maintain that the Interstate Commerce
Commission was not authorized to issue the certificate:
that § 1 (18) does not apply to railroad operation under
trackage rights; that, if it does, it is not retroactive and
does not apply to a use which began before the enactment,
and that the Commission is without power, to the exclusion of the state authorities, to pass on or prescribe the
terms and conditions of the agreement made by the carriers to govern such operation.
The Pennsylvania railway station and yards in midtown Manhattan constitute the eastern terminus of that
system. In addition to such station and yards the terminal properties include four single-track tunnels extending
easterly under the city and East river, the Sunnyside
yard in Queens, and connecting lines. The Long Island
Railroad connects with that yard. The legal title of the
terminal properties is in the terminal company. The
Pennsylvania Railroad Company is its lessee and owns
all its stock and practically all that of the Long Island.
The station was opened for use in 1910, and in September of that year the Long Island commenced to
operate its trains over the terminal lines of railroad
through the tunnels, to and from the station and yards
in Manhattan. This operation was pursuant to an agreement -made by the carriers for. which they obtained the
approval of the first district state public service commission. The rental payable by the Long Island was, in

TRANSIT COMMISSION v. U.S.,
121

Opinion of the Court.

1920 and again in 1922, increased, with the approval of
the public service commission, and, after 1921, of its
successor, the transit commission. In 1923 the carriers
sought approval of an amendment of the agreement that
would involve a further increase. The application was
denied. In March, 1925, the carriers submitted another
agreement. After modification to lessen the proposed
rental, the transit commission, July 28, 1925, approved.
In November the carriers made application for approval
of a higher charge. In December the commission disallowed it but granted extension to January 1, 1927, of
the agreement which it had approved July 28, 1925.
In 1929 the carriers, invoking § 1 (18), applied to the
Interstate Commerce Commission for a certificate of public convenience and necessity authorizing the Long Island
to continue operation at the rental rejected by the transit
commission in December, 1925. The Interstate Comiherce Commission held that it had jurisdiction but denied the application without prejudice upon the ground
that the agreement imposed unreasonable terms on the
Long Island. 162 I.C.C. 218. December 27, 1930, the
carriers submitted a proposed agreement somewhat more
favorable to the Long Island. February 8, 1932, the
Commission approved and, subject to conditions specified,
granted the certificate. 180 I.C.C. 439. The carriers
accepted the prescribed terms. In addition to the facts
above stated, the court found that between January 1,
1927, and the consummation of the agreement pursuant
to the certificate, the Long Island was a tenant at will
and that the carriers continued during that period to
operate under the conditions approved July 28, 1925.
The Commission found, and it is conceded, that public
convenience and necessity require that the Long Island
continue to use the lines and other facilities covered by
the trackage agreement. It declared that the reasonableness of a joint facility rental is a matter of public inter-

126

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of. the Court.

289 US.

est, as well as one affecting the operations of the carriers,
and should be considered in deciding upon public convenience and necessity; that the financial as well as the
transportation features of the carriers' application, might
be dealt with under the authority conferred by § 1 (18);
and that in cases of extensions of operations under trackage rights, the cost is not less important than in cases of
extension by construction, acquisition, or lease. Appellants raise no question as to the sufficiency of the evidence
to sustain the order or as to the-reasonableness of the
rentals or other terms of the agreement.
The district court found that operation under trackage
agreements over existing lines of another carrier may
affect interstate commerce; that an extension, whether
arising out of such agreements or otherwise, has a vital
effect on such commerce and that the same dangers that
are to be guarded against when a railroad extends its line
for its own use, or leases it for the sole use of another,
exist where it agrees to a joint use by itself and another
road. And upon a consideration of the language of § 1
(18) in the light of facts found and of settled governmental policies in respect of the regulation of interstate
transportation, the court concluded that the case is within the statute; that the federal commission had jurisdiction over the trackage agreements and that § 148 of the
New York Railroad Law no longer applies.
Section 1 (18) was added by Transportation Act, 1920.
It provides: "No carrier . . . shall undertake the ex-

tension of its line of railroad, or the construction of a
new line of railroad, or shall acquire or operate any line
of railroad, or extension thereof, or shall-engage in transportation under this Act over or by means of such additional or extended line of railroad, unless and until there
shall first have been obtained from the Commission a
certificate that the present or future public convenience

TRANSIT COMMISSION v. U.S.
121

Opinion of the Court.

and necessity require or will require the construction, or
operation, or construction and operation, of such additional or extended line of railroad

."

The para-

graph also declares that no carrier shall abandon the
operation. of any portion of a line of railroad until it
obtains the Commission's certificate that public convenience and necessity permit it. Paragraph (20) authorizes the Commission to impose such terms and conditions
as in its judgment the public convenience and. necessity
may require, and provides that "without securing approval other than such certificate" the carrier may "proceed with the construction, operation, or abandonment
*covered thereby.':
These provisions do not specifically mention trackage
agreements providing for-joint use of railroad lines, tracks
or other facilities by two or more carriers. The question
is whether the general language of paragraph (18) includes the arrangement under consideration. Prior to
the Transportation Act, 1920, regulations coincidentally
made by federal and state authorities were frequently
conflicting, and often the enforcement of state measures
interfered with, burdened and destroyed interstate commerce. Multiple control in respect of matters affecting
such transportation has been found detrimental to the
public interest as well as to the carriers. Dominant federal action was imperatively, called for. Minnesota
Rate Cases, 230 U.S.* 352, 433. And it was everywhere
known that enormous sums had been expended by interstate railroad carriers for the construction and operation.
of lines that were not needed or likely to be needed. Such
investments had brought financial ruin to some and had
made doubtful the power of many to continue operation
in other than flush times. Need for effective regulation
in this field had become urgent; and undoubtedly the
Congress, by the provisions above referred to, intended to

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

confer upon the Commission plenary power to limit interstate carriers' expenditures for construction or operation
to lines of railroad reasonably necessary for the service
of the public.
So far as concerns the purpose to be attained by this
legislation, there is no room for a distinction between unjustifiable expenditures for the construction or operation
of new mileage, on the one hand, and inadequate rentals
or extortionate exactions under trackage agreements, on
the other. The reasons for the exertion of federal authority, to the exclusion of state regulation, apply with like
force to both. The Act, including paragraph (18) and
related provisions, is construed to make federal authority
effective to the full extent that it has been exerted and
with a view of eliminating the evils that Congress intended to abate. Wisconsin R. R. Comm'n v. C., B. & Q.
R. Co., 257 U.S. 563, 585, 589-590. New England Divisions Case, 261 U.S. 184, 189. Railroad Comm'n v.
Southern Pac. Co., 264 U.S. 331, 343. Texas & Pac.Ry. v.
Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry., 270 U.S. 266, 277. Colorado v.
United States, 271 U.S. 153, 163. Alabama & V. Ry. v.
Jackson & E. Ry., 271 U.S. 244, 249.
The words employed are broad enough to include the
Long Island operations under the trackage agreement.
The phrase "to operate any line of railroad" seems quite
sufficient to include such use. There is nothing to suggest that the "operation " for which the commission's approval is required may not be by other than the owner
or lessee of the line or that it is to be limited to exclusive
use. For more than a score of years the Long Island has
used these lines for the passage of frequent trains carrying an enormous and ever increasing traffic between the
terminus of its owned railroad at Sunnyside and the Pennsylvania station. It is no stretch to say that it has been
operating such lines or that they constitute an "exten-

TRANSIT COMMISSION v. U.S.
121

Opinion of the Court.

sion" of its own railroad.

The use is a joint one but it

is nevertheless "operation." And the phrase, "engage
in transportation . . . by means of such additional or extended line of railroad " reasonably may be deemed to
include a line owned by another carrier. The Long Island's use of the Pennsylvania lines covered by the agreement serves the same purpose as would the acquisition of
such lines by purchase or the construction by it of a like
extension into Manhattan. The provision as to abandonment is also significant, for if the Long Island were to
cease to use the lines covered by the agreement, it reasonably might be held to have abandoned a "portion of a
line of railroad." Any interpretation excluding the lines
of railroad in question would conflict with implications of
our decisions. Alabama & V. Ry. v. Jackson & E. Ry.,
supra, 250. Cleveland, C., C. & St. L. Ry. v. United
States, 275 U.S. 404, 409. The provisions of paragraph
(18) undoubtedly apply to the operations under trackage
agreements such as that under consideration.
There is no merit in appellants' contention that, because
the joint use commenced prior to the Transportation Act
and has since been continuous, the provisions of paragraph (18) do not apply.' The extended term of the contract approved by the state commission expired January
1, 1927. The agreement submitted to the Interstate
Commerce Commission for approval was made long after
such expiration and when there was no agreement for
continuing joint operation or use of the lines and -other
facilities. On the taking effect of the Transportation Act
the state commission was stripped of power to prescribe
terms for such operation. The authority of the Interstate Commerce Commission is paramount and, in respect of the operation and agreement under consideration,
it is necessarily exclusive.
Affirmed.
15450°-33-9

