PUB. SERV. COMM'N v. WIS. TEL. CO.

67

Syllabus.

60

chattel mortgages. The national banks would never
handle such business. They prefer to-and do in factlend to such companies." These findings are supported
by the record.
As we should not be warranted in disturbing these, or
any of the other, findings of the Supreme Court complained of, compare Georgetown National Bank v. McFarland, 273 U.S. 568, we have no occasion to consider an
alternative ground urged for affirmance-that the operation of the taxing system of the State resulted, in fact, in
substantial equality between bank shares and other
moneyed capital.

Affirmed.

PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION OF WISCONSIN
ET AL.

v. WISCONSIN TELEPHONE CO.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN

No. 517.

Argued March 15, 1933.-Decided March 27, 1933

1. The importance of statements by the District Courts of the
grounds of their decisions, covering both facts and law, is again
emphasized. P. 69.
2. It is particularly important that the appellate court should be
adequately advised of the basis of the determination of the court
below when the decree enjoins the enforcement of a state law or the
action of state officials under state law. P. 70.
3. The reasons exist, and are not the less imperative, when the injunction is interlocutory. Id.
4. Although Equity Rule 701/2, requiring that "in deciding suits in
equity" the court of first instance shall find the facts specially and
state separately its conclusions of law thereon, does not embrace
interlocutory applications, the duty to set forth the grounds and
reasons for an interlocutory injunction restraining enforcement of
rates fixed by a state commission was not altered by the adoption
of that Rule. P. 70.
5. Where the court below fails to perform this duty, this Court will
not search a,voluminous record to find a basis for the interlocutory
decree, but will vacate the decree and remand the cause for proper
findings and conclusions. P. 71.

68

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

APPEAL from a decree of interlocutory injunction
granted by the District Court of three judges, restraining
the enforcement of reduced telephone rates, fixed by the
Public Service Commission.

Mr. Alvin C. Reis, with whom Mr. James E. Finnegan,
Attorney General of Wisconsin, was on the brief, for
appellants.
Mr. Edwin S. Mack, with whom Messrs. Arthur. W.
Fairchild,J. Gilbert Hardgrove, Frederic Sammond, and
Charles M. Bracelen were on the brief, for appellee.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of
the Court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the District Court,
composed of three judges, granting an interlocutory injunction which restrained the enforcement of an order of
the Public Service Commission of Wisconsin reducing
telephone rates. 28 U.S.C., ยง 380.
In July, 1931, the Public Service Commission of Wisconsin instituted a statewide investigation of the rates,
rules, services and practices Of the Wisconsin Telephone
Company. While hearings in this investigation were in
progress, and on June 30, 1932, the Commission issued
an "interlocutory" order reducing the rates for "exchange" service, that is, rates for local service within a
single exchange, by 121/2 percent. The Commission
found that the existing rates were unjust and unreasonable and that the reduced rates would be just and reasonable to be applied for a temporary period. The rates
were to be effective for one year from July 31, 1932, the
Commission retaining jurisdiction to modify its order at
any time for cause shown. The Commission rendered
an elaborate opinion (154 printed pages) setting forth
the "reasons and facts" underlying its findings.

PUB. SERV. COMM'N v. WIS. TEL. CO.
67

69

Opinion of the Court.

On July 28, 1932, the Company brought this suit to restrain the enforcement of the prescribed rates and two
days later the District Judge made a temporary restraining order. Application for an interlocutory injunction
was heard by three judges on September 21, 1932. The
hearing was upon the pleadings and voluminous affidavits
making a record of several hundred pages. On the same,
day, after argument, the court announced its decision
granting the injunction upon the giving of a bond for
$1,000,000 and meanwhile continuing the temporary restraining order. The decree for injunction was entered
on October 18, 1932, and contained a general statement
that the rates prescribed by the Commission's order
"would result in the confiscation of the property" of
the complainant, would deprive it of its property "without compensation and without due process of law," and
that there would be irreparable injury if an interlocutory
injunction were not issued.
No opinion was rendered by the District Court and,
apart from the general statement above mentioned, the
court made no findings. Not only did the court fail to
set forth the facts pertinent to a conclusion that an. interlocutory injunctioh should issue,,but the court declared
that the prescribed rates were confiscatory 'without any
findings warranting such a conclusion. Appellee moves
to affirm the decree. Appellants, resisting the motion,
contend that the District Court abused its discretion and
that the decree should be reversed, or at least should be
set aside and the cause "remanded for findings of fact and
conclusions of law.
We have repeatedly emphasized the importance of a
statement of the grounds of decision, both as to facts and
law, as an aid to litigants and to this Court. While it is
always desirable that an' appellate court should be adequately advised of the basis of the determination of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

court below, we have pointed out that it is particularly
important that this basis should appear when the decree
enjoins the enforcement of a state law or the action of
state officials under that law. Virginian Ry. Co. v.
United States, 272 U.S. 658, 675; Lawrence v. St. LouisSan Francisco Ry. Co., 274 U.S. 588, 596; Hammond v.
Schappi Bus Line, 275 U.S. 164, 171, 172; Railroad Commission v. Maxcy, 281 U.S. 82, 83. "For then, the respect due to the State demands that the need for nullifying the action of its legislature or of its executive officials
be persuasively shown." These reasons exist, and are not
the less imperative, when the injunction is interlocutory.
Lawrence v. St. Louis-San Francisco Ry. Co., supra. It
was to insure careful and deliberate action upon such
interlocutory applications that the Congress has required
that they should be heard before three judges. That requirement applies only when an interlocutory injunction
is sought. Stratton v. St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co.,
282 U.S. 10, 15.
It is true, as the appellee contends, that the terms of
Equity Rule 70/2, relating to decisions of suits in equity,
apply to decisions upon final hearing and do not embrace
decisions upon interlocutory applications. But the duty
of the court in dealing with interlocutory applications, to
which this Court had previously directed attention, was
not altered by the adoption of that rule. While an application for an interlocutory injunction does not involve
a final determination of the merits, it does involve the
exercise of a sound judicial discretion. That discretion
can be exercised only upon a determination, in the light
of the issues and of the facts presented, whether the complainant has made, or has failed to make, such a showing
of the gravity of his complaint as to warrant interlocutory
relief. Thus, if the issue is confiscation, the complainant
must make a factual showing of the probable confiscatory
effect of the statute or order with such clarity and per-

ROBERTS v. IRRIGATION DIST.
Syllabus.

67

suasiveness as to demonstrate the propriety in the interest of justice, and in order to prevent irreparable injury,
of restraining the State's action until hearing upon the
merits can be had. Phoenix Ry. Co. v. Geary, 239 U.S.277, 281; Gilchrist v. Interborough Rapid Transit Co.,
279 U.S. 159, 207; Ohio Oil Co. v. Conway, 279 U.S. 813,
815.. The result of the court's inquiry into the issues and
into the facts presented upon the interlocutory application, in order to satisfy itself as to the gravity of complainant's case and the probable consequences of unrestrained enforcement of the statute or order, should be
set forth by the court in a statement of the facts and
law constituting the grounds of its decision. While that
decision is not on the merits and does not require the
findings of fact and conclusions of law which would be
appropriate upon final hearing, the court should make the
findings of fact and conclusions of law that are appropriate to the interlocutory proceeding.
That duty the court below failed to perform in the
instant case and we are not called upon, unaided by
opinion or findings, to search this voluminous record to
find a basis for the court's decree. The decree is accordingly vacated and the cause is remanded to the District
Court, as specially constituted, for findings and conclusions appropriate to a decision upon the application for
an interlocutory injunction, the temporary restraining
order to remain in force pending that determination.
Decree vacated and cause remanded.
ROBERTS v. RICHLAND IRRIGATION DISTRICT
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF WASHINGTON

No. 516.

Argued February 16, 1933.-Decided March 27, 1933

1. A State has power to create irrigation districts with authority to
lay taxes, distributed in ac~ordance with estimated benefits, on the

