238.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Counsel for Parties.

HURN

ET AL.

v. OURSLER

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT

No. 565. Argued February 17, 1933.-Decided April 17, 1933
1. A bill In the District Court made a claim of copyright infringement, raising a substantial federal' question, and also sought relief
upon the ground that the very same acts constituting the alleged infringement constituted unfair competition under the state law. Held:
(1) That the federal question raised by the pleading gave jurisdiction of the case. P. 240.
(2) When the federal claim was rejected on the merits, the court
still had jurisdiction to decide the claim of unfair competition on

the merits. Leschen Rope Co. v. Broderick, 201 US. 166, and Elgin
Watch Co. v. Illinois Watch Co., 179 U.S. 665, criticized. Pp.
240-244.
2. It is 'a.
general rule that where the federal court has acquired
jurisdiction by virtue of a substantial federal question raised in
the bill or the complaint, it may decide not only that question buto
also the local questions involved. P. 243.
3. This rule does not go so 'ar as to permit a federal cQurt to assume
jurisdiction of a separate and distiimt non-federal cause of action
because it is joined in the same complaint with a federal cause of
action. P. 245.
4. From the jurisdictional standpoint, the claims of copyright infringement and of unfair competition pleaded in this case are not
separate causes of action, but are different grounds asserted in
support of the game cause of action. P. 246.
61 F. (2d) 1031, modified and affirmed.

288 U.S. 595, to review the affirmance of a
decree dismissing a bill on the merits in so far as grounded
on copyright infringement, ana for want of jurisdiction
in so far as grounded on unfair competition.
Mr. Joseph, Lorenz, with whom Messrs. Keith Lorenz
and Louis W. McKernan were on the brief, for petitioners.
CERTIORARI,

Mr. Alan S. Hays, with whom Mr. Arthur Garfield
Hays was on the brief, for Oursler, respondent.

HURN v. OURSLER.
238

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Benjamin Pepper for Lewis et al., respondents.
Emily Holt for Brentano, respondent.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion ot the

Court.
Petitioners brought this suit to enjoin respondents from
publicly producing, presenting or performing a play called
"The Spider," on the ground that it infringed a copyrighted play of petitioners, called "The Evil Hour."
There was also a prayer for damages and an accounting.
The bill, as amended, alleged that "The Evil Hour" had
been composed by petitioners and duly copyrighted under
the laws of the United States; that the play thereafter
was revised, but the revision was uncopyrighted; that the
play, both in its copyrighted and its revised uncopyrighted
form, was submitted to certain of the respondents, who
considered and discussed its production; that the feature
of the play consisted in the representation of a spiritualistic seance on the stage, with the audience taking part
therein; that respondents were the owners of "The
Spider," also copyrighted, but as originally produced containing no representation of a spiritualistic seance of any
kind; that respondents, instead of producing petitioners'
play, altered their own by incorporating therein the idea
of a spiritualistic seance on the stage, and also bertain incidental "business and effects" and certain portions of
"The Evil Hour "; that their action in that respect was a
violation of the copyright laws of the United States and
also constituted "unfair business practices and unfair
competition against the [petitioners]." The parties are
citizens of the same state.
The trial court, considering the claim of infringement
on the merits, found that "The Spider" did not infringe
in any way "The Evil Hour," in contravention of the
copyright law of the United States, and concluded that

240

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 US.

in view thereof, the court was without jurisdiction to
entertain the allegations in so far as they were based upon
claims other than for a violation of the copyright law. A
decree followed dismissing the bill. The circuit court of
appeals affirmed upon the authority of cases cited. 61 F.
(2d) 1031.
It is apparent from the language of the trial court that
the claim of unfair competition in respect of the copyrighted play, as well as in respect of the uncopyrighted
version, was rejected not on the metits .but for lack of
jurisdiction. In that view the decree of the court was
assailed and defended here.
One. We consider the question first from the standpoint
of the copyrighted play. While, as presently will appear,
the claim of unfair competition is without merit and the
dismissal must stand in any event, it is important that if
the determination of the court was put upon the wrong
ground we should so declare, that if may not be followed
as a precedent.
The unfair competition in respect of the copyrighted
play, according to the allegations, results fr6m the same
acts which constitute the infringement and is inseparable
therefrom. The court below proceeded upon the theory
that the allegations of the bill in respect of infringement
presented a substantial' federal question. Certainly, the
question is not plainly unsubstantial; and the jurisdiction of the federal court was rightly upheld. Disposal of
the infringement, therefore, on the merits was proper;
and the precise question for determination is whether the
claim of unfair competition was properly dismissed for
lack of jurisdiction, or, likewise, should have been considered and disposed of on.the merits.
A multitude of cases in the lower federal courts have
dealt with the question in its various phases and have
reached different conclusions. The opinions present, a
'great variety of views and of differences. We shall not

HURN v. OURSLER.

241

Opinion of the Court.

238

undertake to review these cases. A few out of many are
mentioned in the footnote * as illustrative of the confusion and as indicating the importance of attempting to
formulate some rule on the subject. And to that end
we first direct attention to certain decisions of this court
which seem most nearly in point.
In Stark Bros. Co. v. Stark, 255 U.S. 50, suit was
brought for infringement of a trademark and unfair competition. The circuit court of appeals limited damages
to the date when notice was given of the registered mark,
and refused to allow damages for earlier injuries. This
court pointed out that the suit was for infringement of a
*Some cases seem to hold that however intimately the claims of
unfair competition and infringement are related, the federal court
is without power to consider the former. Planten v. Gedney, 224 Fed.
382, 386; Recamier Mfg. Co. v. Harriet Hubbard Ayer, Inc., 59 F.
(2d) 802, 806. This is what is sometimes spoken of as the "second
circuit rule," and has been followed in a large number of cases. Other
cases have denied jurisdiction on the ground that the two claims constitute separate causes of action, although in some the separateness
does not clearly appear. U. S. Expansion Bolt Co. v. Kroncke Hardware Co., 234 Fed. 868, 872-875. Compare Moore v. N. Y. Cotton
Exchange, 270 U.S. 593, 607, et seq., Dickinson Tire & Machine Co.
v. Dickinson, 29 F. (2d) 493. In Onondaga Indian Wigwam Co. v.
Ka-Noo-No Indian Mig. Co., 182 Fed. 832, the rule of the-Siler case,
infra, was definitely applied to a case where the acts of defendant
were alleged as constituting an infringement of a patent and also unfair competition. Some courts have taken jurisdiction of unfair competition in infringement suits as an element constituting "aggravation
of damages." Lidwigs v. Pay son Mg.Co., 206 Fed. 60, 65; W. F.

Burns Co. v. Automatic Recording Safe Co., 241 Fed. 472, 486;
Payton v. Ideal Jewelry Mfg. Co., 7 F. (2d) 113. Relief has been
denied for unfair competition where the patent or trademark has
been held valid but not infringed-Sprigg v. Fisher, 222 Fed. 964;
Detroit Showcase Co. v. Kawneer Mfg. Co., 250 Fed. 234, 240; Taylor v. Bostic, 299 Fed. 232, while the contrary is stated with much
force in Vogue Co. v. Vogue Hat Co., 12 F. (2d) 991, 992-995. One
case, at least, seems to consider the question of retention of jurisdiction a matter of discretion. Mallinson v. Ryan, 242 Fed. 951, 953.
15450*-.3.-.--16

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

registered trademark, not simply of a trademark, and that
this was the scope of the federal jurisdiction. Agreeing
with the lower court that the cause of action for the
earlier damages lay outside the federal jurisdiction, this
court assumed, though without deciding, that plaintiff
"could recover for unfair Competition that was inseparable from the statutory wrong, but it could not reach
back and recover for earlier injuries to rights derived
from a different source."
In that view, so far as the unfair competition alleged
was thus inseparable from the statutory wrong, it would
seem that a failure to establish the infringement would
not have deprived the federal court of jurisdiction of the
claim of unfair competition, but would have left that
matter to be disposed of upon the merits. And that is
the effect of the decision of this court in Moore v. N.Y.
Cotton Exchange, 270 U.S. 593, 607-610. In that case
federal jurisdiction was invoked under the federal antitrust laws. The answer set up a counterclaim non-federal in character, but arising out of the same transaction.
This court held that although the allegations of the bill
were insufficient to make a case under the federal law,
they were not plainly unsubstantial .so as to deprive the
federal court of jurisdiction, and sustained a dismissal of
the bill on the merits and not for the want of jurisdiction.
Nevertheless, we held, under Equity Rule 30, that the
counterclaim was so much a part of the case sought to
be stated in the bill that the dismissal of the latter on the
merits did not deprive the court of jurisdiction to dispose
of the former on the merits. We think the question there
and the one here, in principle, cannot be distinguished.
That a statement of the particular counterclaim there was
required by the rule is not material, since the federal jurisdiction can neither be extended nor abridged by a rule
of court.

HURN v. OURSLER.
238

243

Opinion of the Court.

As early as Osborn v. U. S. Bank, 9 Wheat. 738, 823,
Chief Justice Marshall, speaking for the court, said:
"We think, then, that 'when a question to which the
judicial power of the Union is extended by the constitution, formis an ingredient of the original cause, it is in the
power of Congress to give the Circuit Courts- jurisdiction
of that cause, although other questions of fact or of law
may be involved in it."
In Siler v. Louisville & Nashville R. Co., 213 U.S. 175,
191, the bill sought to enjoin the enforcement of an order
made by the railroad commission of Kentucky fixing intrastate rates of transportation upon the railroad of the coinpany. The validity of the order was assailed on the
ground that the Kentucky statute under which the commission assunied to act was violative of the federal Constitution in several particulars, and upon the further
ground that such order was unauthorized by the statc
statute. This court held that the c&rcuit court, having
acquired juris(Iictioti by reason of the federal questi(ons
involved, " had the right to decide all the questions in the
case, even though it decided the Federal questions adversely to the party raising them, or even if it omitted to
(lecide them at all, but decide(ld the case on local or state
questions only."
Lincoln Gas Co. v. Lincoln, 250 U.S. 256, involved,
among other things, the validity of an ordinance assessing
an annual occupation tax upon gas companies in the city.
The ordinance was attacked on the ground that it violated
the due process and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment, and also upon groun(Is of slate law.

The federal district'court held that the ordinance violated
the constitution of Nebraska, and upon that ground
granted a permanent injunction against its enforcement.
This court, in disposing of the appeal, said (p. 264):
if the bill presented a substantial controversy under
the Constitution of the United 6tates, and the requisite
...

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

amount was involved, the jurisdiction extended to the
determination of all questions, including questions of
state law, and irrespective of the disposition made of the

federal questions."
These decisions are illustrative of many cases where the'
rule has been stated and restated in substantially the
same way. See Louisville & Nash. R. Co. v. Garrett,231
U.S. 298, 303; Ohio Tax Cases, 232 U.S. 576, 586-587;
Greene v. Louisville & Interurban R. Co., 244 U.S. 499,
508; Louisville & N. R. Co. v. Greene, 244 U.S. 522, 527;
Davis v. Wallace, 257 U.S. 478, 482; Sterling v. Constantin, 287 U.S. 378, 393-394.
Leschen Rope Co. v. Broderick Co., 201 U.S. 166,
is said to establish a different doctrine. In that case the
plaintiff alleged that it owned a duly registered trademark
which had been infringed by defendant. Upon demurrer
the bill was dismissed on the ground that it disclosed that
the trademark was not a lawful and valid trademark.
This court sustained the dismissal for want of jur'isdiction, holding that the jurisdiction of the federal court depended entirely upon whether the registered trademark
was valid. Having held that the lower court was without jurisdiction because of the invalidity of the trademark, the court further said that jurisdiction of the case
could not then be assumed as one wherein the defendant
had made use of the device for the purpose of defrauding
the plaintiff and palming off its goods as those of plaintiff's manufacture.
Whether the court was right or wrong in denying jurisdiction to consider the claim of infringement, the ground
of the decision seems to be that such denial necessarily
carried with it, also for lack of jurisdiction, any claim of
unfair competition dependent upon the same facts. That
is to say, if the court had no jurisdiction of the former
claim, it followed that it had no jurisdiction of the latter.
Whether the federal question averred by the bill was
plainly unsubstantial was not considered. The court

HURN v.- OURSLER.
238

245.

Opinion of the Court.

summarily disposed of' the matter (p. 1.72) in a single
sentence: "Our jurisdiction depends solely upon thequestion whether .plaintiff has a registered trade-mark valid
under 'the act of Congress,, and, for the reasons above
given, we think it has not.': This is a broad, statement,
which, takeni literally, applies whether the invalidity of
the registry so appears on the face of the bill as to renderthe federal question plainly unsubstantial,. or, the bill being sufficient to meet this test, such invalidity is otherwise
disclosed.
Elgin Watch Co. v. Illinois Watch Co., 179 U.S. 665,
677, goes no further than to recognize the same doctrine,
the court, simply saying: "Was it a lawfully registered
trade mark? If the absolute right td the'word as a trade
mark belonged to appellant,'then the Circuit Court had
jurisdiction under the statute to award relief for infringementr but if it were not a lawfully registered trade mark..
then the Circuit Court of Appeals correctly held .that
jurisdiction could not be maintained."
We shall not. attempt to harmonize the two cases last
cited with the Siler and the other cases following it. It
is not easy to do so unless on the ground that cases involving patents, trademarks, and copyrights constitute an exception to the. general rule stated in the Siler and other
like cases. And accepting the view that this is the'effect
of the Leschen Rope and the Elgin Watch cases, supra,
we are of opinion that such a distinction is altogether
unsound. The Siler and like cases announce the rule
broadly, without qualification- and we perceive no suffi- .
cient reason for the exception suggested. It is stated in
these decisions as a rule of general application; and we
hold it to be such-as controlling in patent, trademark,
.and copyright cases as it was in the cases where it. is
announced.
" But the rule does not go so far as to permit a federal
court to assume jurisdiction of a separate and distinct
non-federal cause of action because it is joined in the

OCTOBER -TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

same complaint with a federal cause of action. The distinction to be observed is between a case where two distinct grounds in support of a single cause of action are alleged, one only of which presents a federal question, and
a case where two separate and distinct causes of action
are alleged, one only of which is federal in character. In
the former, where the federal question averred is not
plainly wanting in substance, the federal court, even
though the federal ground be not established, may nevertheless retain and dispose of the case upon the non-federal ground; in the latter it may not do so upon the nonfederal cause of action.
The case at bar falls within the first category. The bill
alleges the violation of a single right, namely, the right
to protection of the copyrighted play. And it is this violation which constitutes the cause of action. Indeed, the
claims of infringement and unfair competition so precisely
rest upon identical facts as to be little more than the
equivalent of different epithets to characterize the same
group of circumstances. The primary relief sought is an
injunction to put an end to an essentially single wrong,
however differently characterized, not to enjoin distinct
Wrongs constituting the basis for independent causes of
action. The applicable rule is stated, and authorities
cited, in BaltimoreS. S. Co. v. Phillips,274 U.S. 316. "A
cause. of action does not consist of facts," this court there
said (p. 321), "but of the unlawful violation of a right
which the facts show. The number and variety of the,
facts alleged do not establish more than one cause of action so long as their result, whether they be considered
severally or in combination, is the violation of but one"
right by a single legal wrong

....

'The facts are merely

the means, and not the end. They do not constitute the
cause of action, but they show its existence by making
the wrong appear."'

HURN v. OURSLE .

:247

Opinion of the Court.
Thus tested, the claims of infringement and of unfair
competition averred in the present bill of complaint are
not separate causes of action, but different grounds asserted in support of the same cause of action.
We do not mean by what has just been said to lay
down a hard and fast test by which. to determine in all
situations what constitutes a cause of action. "A 'cause
of action' may mean one thing for one purpose and something different for another," United States v. Memphis
Oil Co., 288 U.S. 62; but for the purpose of determining
the bounds between state and federal jurisdiction, the
meaning should be kept within the limits indicated.
Compare B. & 0. S. W. R. Co. v. Carroll, 280.U.S. 491,
494-495., and cases cited.
It is entirely plain that the holding of the trial court
disposing of the claim of infringement on the merits also
disposed of the claim of unfair competition in respect of
the copyrighted play, since both depended upon the same
allegations of wrongful appropriation of certain parts of,
and conceptions embodied in, petitioners' play. The
finding of the court is comprehensive-" That no version
of the defendahs' play 'The Spider' infringed in any
way, either with respect to plot, material, arrangement
or sequence of events, or incidents, or otherwise, the
plaintiffs' copyrighted play." This finding-not challenged here-contains every essential element necessary
to justify the conclusion that there was likewise no unfair
competition in respect of the copyrighted play, since
it negatives the allegations of the bill made for the
purpose of establishing by the same facts an infringement of the copyrighted play and unfair competition in
relation thereto. Upon this finding the court was right
in dismissing the bill in so far as it set up a claim of unfair business practices and unfair competition; but was
wrong in dismissing it for the want of jurisdiction. It

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 US.

should have been dismissed, as was the infringement claim,
upon the merits. Since a decree to that effect must
follow, upon this record, as a matter of course, no further
proceedings in the district court are necessary. Accordingly the decree will be modified in the respect suggested,
and as so modified, will be affirmed.
Two. During the pendency of the suit petitioners
amended their bill so as to make its allegations apply to
the uncopyrighted version of their play, namely, that the
wrongful acts of respondents were in violation of the
rights of petitioners and constituted unfair business practices and unfair competition with respect to that version
as well as to the original. Since that claim did not rest
upon any federal ground and was wholly independent of
the claim of copyright infringement, the district court was
clearly right in dismissing it for want of jurisdiction. The
bill as amended, although badly drawn, sets forth facts
alleged to be in violation of two distinct rights, namely,
the right to -the protection of the copyrighted play, and
the right to the protection of the uncopyrighted play.
From these averments two separate and distinct causes
of action resulted, one arising under a law of the United
States, and the other arising under general law. For
reasons that have already been made manifest, the latter
is entirely outside the federal jurisdiction and subject
to dismissal at any stage of the case. It is hardly necessary to say that a federal court is without the judicial
power to entertain a cause of action not within its jurisdiction, merely because that cause of action has mistakenly been joined in the complaint, with another which
is within its jurisdiction.
Decree modified in accordance
with the foregoing opinion, and
as modified, affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS and MR. JUSTICE SToNE. think

the decree should be affirmed without modification.

