UNITED STATES v. BURROUGHS.
137

Syllabus.

This doctrine does not impinge on that laid down in
United States v. Rodgers, supra, that the United States
may define and punish offenses committed by its &wn
citizens on its own vessels while within foreign waters
where the local sovereign has not .asserted its jurisdiction.10 In the absence of any controlling treaty provision, and any assertion of jurisdiction by the territorial
sovereign, it is the duty of the courts of the United States
to apply to offenses committed by its citizens on vessels
flying its flag, its own statutes, interpreted in the light
of recognized principles of international law. So applied
the indictment here sufficiently charges an offense within
the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of the United
States and the judgment below must be
Reversed.

UNITED STATES v. BURROUGHS
CANNON, JR.

AND

JAMES

CERTIFICATE FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA

No. 683.

Argued March 14, 15, 1933.-Decided April 10, 1933

1. Under § 935 of the Code of Laws for the District of Columbia,
passed in 1901, the Court of Appeals of the District has jurisdiction
of an appeal by the United States from a judgment of the Supreme
Court of the District which sustained a demurrer to an indictment
on two grounds, one. involving a construction of the statute on
which the indictment was founded, and the other a constrution
of the indictment; and on such *appeal the ruling of the trial court
based on the construction of the statute is reviewable. P. 161..
2. The Criminal Appeals Act, passed in 1907, providing for direct
review by this Court of decisions of the "district or circuit courts"
quashing indictments when based upon the invalidity or construction of the statutes upon which the indictments are founded, etc.,
SThat the doctrines are not in conflict was pointed out by Webster
in his letter to Lord Ashburton, quoted supra note 9.
International Law, 8th ed., 255-256.

See also Hall,

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 Us.

is not to be construed as applicable to the courts of the District
of Columbia and as working an implied repeal of the appellate system established under § 935 of the D. C. Code. P. 161.
3. Implied repeals are not favored, and if effect can reasonably be
given to both statutes, the presumption is that the earlier is
intended to remain in effect. P. 164.
,4.The declarations of the District Code (Title 18, § 43) that the
Supreme Court of the District is to be "deemed a court of the
United States, ' and "shall possess the same powers and exercise
the same jurisdiction as district courts of the United States," do not
make that court a district court of the United States. P. 163.

RESPONSE to questions certified by the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia upon appeal by the
United States from a judgment sustaining a demurrer to
an indictment for violation of the Federal Corrupt
Practices Act."
Solicitor General Thacher, with whom Mr. W. Marvin
Smith was on the brief, for the United States.
Messrs. Robert H. McNeill and Levi H. David for
Burroughs and Cainon.
MR. JUSTIFC
Court.

ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the

The Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia has
certified the following questions:
"Question No. 1: Where on a criminal indictment a
demurrer is sustained and the indictment quashed on
two grounds, one involving a construction of the statute
and the other the interpretation of the indictment as a
pleading, will an appeal lie at the instance of the United
States from the trial court of the District of Columbia
to the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia?
"If Question No. 1 be answered in the affirmative, then
"Question No. 2: May the Court of Appeals of the
District of Columbia on such appeal review the ruling of
the trial court based on the construction of the statute?"

UNITED STATES v. BURROUGHS.
Opinion of the Court.

159

We are advised by the certificate that the defendants
were indicted by a grand jury of the District of Columbia
for violation of the Federal Corrupt Practices Act.1
They interposed a demurrer asserting that the conduct
imputed to them did not constitute the offense defined
by the Act, and that, in any event, the indictment was
insufficient as a pleading in omitting to aver knowledge
on the part of the defendants, which was claimed to be
an essential element of the crime. From a judgment of
the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia sustaining,
the demurrer and quashing the indictment, the Government appealed to the Court of Appeals. The appellees
contended that court lacked jurisdiction, since the Criminal Appeals Act ' governs the right of review in such
cases and permits. only a direct appeal to this court. The
solution of the questions propounded therefore requires
that we answer another: Does the Criminal Appeals Act
embrace cases triable in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia?
In the absence of express statutory authority no appeal
may be taken on behalf of the United States in any criminal case. United States v. Sanges, 144 U.S. 310; United
States v. Ainsworth, 3 App.D.C. 483. March 3, 1901,Congress adopted the Code of Law for the District of
Columbia,' whereby it defined the jurisdiction of the Police Court and the Supreme Court of the District, sanctioned appeals from both to the Court of Appeals, and by
§ 935 enacted:'
"In all criminal prosecutions the United States or the
District of Columbia, as the case may be, shall have the
'Act of February .28, 1925; U.S.C.,.Tit. 2, Chap. 8.
.'Act of Match 2, 1907; 34 Stat. 1246; U.S.C., Tit. 18, § 682.
831 Stat. 1189.
•31 Stat. 1341. By the Act of March 19, 1906, 34-Stat. 73, a Juvenile Court was 'established and appeals from its judgments to the
Court of Appeals authorized and regulated.
15450-3-----11

162

1

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

same right of appeal that is given to the defendant, including the right to a bill Of exceptions: Provided, That
if on such appeal it shall be found that there was error in
the rulings of the court during the trial, a verdict in favor
of the defendant shall not be set aside."
The Criminal Appeals Act was not adopted until 1907.
It authoriied a writ of error (now an appeal) "by and on
behalf of the United States from the district or circuit
courts direct to" this court "in all criminal cases, in the
following instances." Three claises are enumerated: decisions quashing or sustaining a demurrer to an indictment, based upon the invalidity, or construction of the
statute on which the indictmeiit is founded; decisions arresting judgment for insufficiency of the indictment,
based upon such invalidity or construction of the statute;
and decisions sustaining a special plea in bar when the
defendant has not been put in jeopardy. No appeal is
permitted where there has been a verdict in favor of the
defendant. The Court of Appeals, holding this Act, so
far as applicable, superseded § 935 of the District Code,'
desires, a ruling as to its jurisdiction on appeal where a decision will involve both a construction of the statute on
which the indictment is based and a ruling as to the validity of the indictment as a pleading.. We think, however,
the answer is clear; for we are of opinion that, the Criminal Appeals Act is inapplicable to criminal cases tried in
the Supreme Court of the District. These are regulated
solely by § 935 of the Code.
It is said that the Criminal Appeals Act is pertinent
because the Code provides that the Supreme Court is to
In United States v. Evans, 28 App.D.C. 264,
297, it was held that the proviso was ineffective
ernment a review of alleged errors in the course
in acquittal.
.$See United States Y. Denison, 47 F. (2d) 433;

approved 213 U.S.
to afford the Govof a trial resulting
60 App.D.C. 71.

UNITED STATES v. BURROUGHS.
159

Opinion of the Court.

be "deemed a court of the United States" 7 (compare
Embry v. Palmer, 107 U.S. 3), but designation of'a tribunal as a court of the United States, does not constitute
it a district. court. In re Mills, 135 U.S. 263, 267-8;
Stephens v. Cherokee Nation, 174 U.S. 445.
Appellees further urge the statement in the Code '
that the Supreme Court "shall possess the same powers
and exercise the same jurisdiction as the district courts
of the United States" has the effect of making
it a district court as that phrase is used in the Criminal Appeals
Act. Where a statute uses this or similar language to
define the jurisdiction of a- court, such a court is authorized to try statutory actions declared to be cognizable by
district courts, as if the tribunal were in fact a district
court of the United States. And the same rule is applicable to appellate proceedings. Compare In re Cooper, 143
U.S. 472, 494; Hine v. Morse, 218 U.S. 493; Federal Trade
Commission v. Klesner, 274 U.S. 145, 154; United States
v. California Co6perative Canneries, 279 U.S. 553, 558.
But vesting a court with "the same jurisdiction as is
vested in district courts" does not make it a district
court -of the United States. This has been repeatedly said
with reference to territorial, courts. Reynolds v. United
States, 98' U.S. 145, 154; Stephens v. Cherokee Nation,
supra,p. 476; Summers v. United States, 231 U.S. 92, 101.
. The Criminal Appeals Act, in naming the'courts from
which appeals may be taken to this court, employs the
phrase "district courts"; not- "courts of the United
States," or "courts exercising the same jurisdiction as
district 'courts."
We need not, however, determine
whether the statute should be construed to embrace
criminal cases tried in the Supreme Court of the District'
if § 935 of the District Code were not in effect. That
'qode, District of Columbia, Tit. 18, § 43.
Ibid.

-OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

section deals comprehensively with appeals in criminal
cases from all of the courts of first instance of the District and confers on the Court of Appeals jurisdiction
of appeals by the Government seeking review of the
judgments of those courts. The Criminal Appeals Act,
on the other hand, affects only certain specified classes
of decisions in district courts, contains no repealing
clause, and no reference to the courts of the District of
Columbia or the territorial courts, upon many of which
jurisdiction is conferred by language quite similar to that
of the Code of Law of the District.' We cannot construe
it as impliedly repealing the complete appellate, system
created for tho District of Columbia by § 935 of the
Code, in the absence of expression on the part of Congress indicating that purpose. Implied repeals are not
favored; and if effect can reasonably be given to both
statutes, the presumption is that the earlier is intended
to remain in force. Frost v. Wenie, 157 U.S. 46, 58;
United States v. Heatey, 160 U.S. 136, 147; United States
v. Greathouse, 166 U.S., 601, 605; Petri v. Creelman
'Alaska: "There is established a district court for the Territory
of Alaska, with the jurisdiction of district courts of the United
States . . ." U.S. Code, Tit. 48, § 101.
Hawaii: "There shall be ...

a district court..." "The said

court shall have the jurisdiction of district courts of the United
States ..

."

U.S. Code, Tit. 48, §§ 641, 642.

Puerto Rico: " Porto Rico shall constitute a judicial district to be
called 'the district of Porto Rico.' . . Suc& district court shall
have jurisdiction of all cases cognizable in the district courts of the
United States . .

."

U.S. Code, Tit. 48, § 863.

Congress has expressly provided for direct appeal from the District
Court of Puerto Rico to this court, thus: "The said district -court
shall be attached to and included in the first circuit of the United
States, with the right of appeal and review by said circuit court of
appeals in all cases where the same would lie from any district court
to a circuit court of appeals of the United States, and with the right
of appeal and review directly by the Supreme Court of the United
States in all cases where a direct appeal would be from such district
courts." U.S. Code, Tit. 48, § 864.

ROYAL IND. CO. v. AMER. BOND CO.
159

165

Statement of th ' Case.

Lumber Co., 199 U.S. 487, 497; Ex parte. United States,
226 U.S. 420, 424; Washington v. Miller, 235 U.S. 422,

428.
The Court of Appeals has jurisdiction of both issues
presented by the appeal from the decree of the Supreme
Court.
Question No. 1 answered " Yes!'
Question No. 2 answered " Yes."
MR. JUSTICE CARDozo

concurs in the result.

ROYAL INDEMNITY CO. ET AL. v., AMERICAN
BOND & MORTGAGE CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT
Nos. 585 and 586.

Argued March 21, 1933.-Decided April 10, 1933

1. The principal place of business of a corporation does not cease
to be such, for the purposes of jurisdiction in bankruptcy, because
its assets and affairs were in the custody and control of equity
-receivers for the greater portion of six months preceding the filing
of the petition.. P. 167.
2. This is. equally true whether the purpose of the receivership is to
wind up, or is merely to rehabilitate, tle business. P. 169.
3. A state statute forbidding the transfer, except in the usftal course
of business, of the franchises or assets of a corporation, without the
Iassent of stockholders, does not prevent the filing of a voluntary
petition in bankruptcy by authority of a resolution of the board of
directors. P. 170.
4. Creditors of a corporation have no standing to attack an adjudication in bankruptcy based on a petition filed by 'authority of the
directors, although a statute of the State of incorporation forbids
transfer, except in the usual course of business, of the franchises or
assets of the company, without the assent of stockholders. P. 171.
61 F. (2d) 875, affirmed.

288 U.S. 596, to review a decree affirming
orders of the district court refusing to vacate an adjudication of bankruptcy.
CERTIORARI,

