ROBERTS v. IRRIGATION DIST.
Syllabus.

67

suasiveness as to demonstrate the propriety in the interest of justice, and in order to prevent irreparable injury,
of restraining the State's action until hearing upon the
merits can be had. Phoenix Ry. Co. v. Geary, 239 U.S.277, 281; Gilchrist v. Interborough Rapid Transit Co.,
279 U.S. 159, 207; Ohio Oil Co. v. Conway, 279 U.S. 813,
815.. The result of the court's inquiry into the issues and
into the facts presented upon the interlocutory application, in order to satisfy itself as to the gravity of complainant's case and the probable consequences of unrestrained enforcement of the statute or order, should be
set forth by the court in a statement of the facts and
law constituting the grounds of its decision. While that
decision is not on the merits and does not require the
findings of fact and conclusions of law which would be
appropriate upon final hearing, the court should make the
findings of fact and conclusions of law that are appropriate to the interlocutory proceeding.
That duty the court below failed to perform in the
instant case and we are not called upon, unaided by
opinion or findings, to search this voluminous record to
find a basis for the court's decree. The decree is accordingly vacated and the cause is remanded to the District
Court, as specially constituted, for findings and conclusions appropriate to a decision upon the application for
an interlocutory injunction, the temporary restraining
order to remain in force pending that determination.
Decree vacated and cause remanded.
ROBERTS v. RICHLAND IRRIGATION DISTRICT
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF WASHINGTON

No. 516.

Argued February 16, 1933.-Decided March 27, 1933

1. A State has power to create irrigation districts with authority to
lay taxes, distributed in ac~ordance with estimated benefits, on the

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

lands in the districts, in order to pay the general bonded indebtedness incurred by the districts in the making of the irrigation
improvements. P. 74.
2. An assessment for this purpose, made necessary by the delinquencies of some of the landowners and permitted by the statute governing the district, is not confiscatory and unconstitutional as applied
to another of the landowners, even though, when added to prior
assessments paid by him, it exceeds the amount in which his land
was actually benefited by the improvement. P. 75.

169 Wash. 156; 13 P. (2d) 437, affirmed.

APPEAL from the affirmance of a judgment dismissing a
bill to enjoin the assessment of a tax on land in an irrigation district.
Mr. R. J. Venables, with whom Mr. Charles H. Farrell
was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. 0. B. Thorgrimson, with whom Messrs. Harold
Preston and L. T. Turner were on the brief, for appellees.

MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of
the Court.
Richland Irrigation District is a corporation organized
under the laws of Washington; and appellant owns forty
acres of agricultural land within its limits. In 1920, at
an election duly held, a majority of the votes cast (appellant objecting) authorized the Directors to issue and sell
$538,000 of its interest-bearing bonds. This was done and
the proceeds were devoted to improvements for irrigation
purposes as contemplated. Interest on the bonds was
made payable semi-annually; the principal in annual installments commencing July 1, 1931.
For ten years the Directors assessed against separate
tracts of land lying within the District, in proportion to
estimated benefits received by each from the improvements, such sums as were necessary to pay accruing obligations. Prior to 1931 the appellant paid a total of
$1,168.65 on account of assessments against his land. In

ROBERTS v. IRRIGATION DIST.
71 .

Opinion of the Court.

January of that year the Directors threatened to make a
further assessment of $757.53 to meet deficiencies resulting from failure of others to pay assessments against their
lands.
It is now asserted that appellant's land was benefited
no more than $350 by the improvements ($10 for each
irrigable acre); that he has already paid far more than
that sum, with interest; and that to require further contributions to discharge the obligation represented by the
bonds would deprive him of property without due process
of law and thus violate the XIV Amendment. By bill,
filed January 12, 1931, in the Superior Court of Benton
County, he sought an injunction forbidding the threatened
action. The trial court sustained a demurrer. The Supreme Court.affirmed the judgment [169 Wash. 156; 13 P.
(2d) 437]; and in support of its action said [pp. 160161]"An irrigation district is a public corporation having
some of the powers of a municipal corporation. The
bond obligation is a general corporate obligation. The
landowner is not entitled to a segregation of his share of
the obligation at the time it is created, or at a later time.
There is no provision in the irrigation act for a segregation at any time. The obligation is a general one and
all lands within the district are subject to taxation for
the payment of the 6ntire obligation. State ex rel.
Clancy v. Columbia IrrigationDistrict, 121 Wash. 79, 208
Pac. 27; State ex rel. Wells v. Hartung, 150 Wash. 490,
274 Pac. 181.
"In 1919 there was a due adjudication of the organization of the district determining the lands to be included
within the district, the amount of bonds to be issued and
the interest to be paid thereon. It must be conclusively
presumed, from that adjudication, as we said in State ex
rel. Wells v. Hartung,supra,' . . . that the total benefits
to the lands comprised in the district were then finally ad-

74

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

judicated. Each tract of land within the district then
became generally liable for the payment of the bonds and
interest.' . . Under the statute (Rem. Comp. Stat.,
ยง 7434) all lands within the district became and will remain subject to specific assessment, in proportion to benefits, until the obligation is paid. The statute provides
that irrigation district bonds and interest thereon shall
be paid by revenue derived from an annual assessment
upon the real property of the district '...
and all
the real property in the district shall be and remain liable
to be assessed for such payment until fully paid as hereinafter provided.' . . ."
Counsel for appellant admit that the Directors rightly
assessed appellant's land so long as the total did not substantially exceed actual benefits received. They concede
liability because of delinquencies within the limit of
benefits; but they assert that the threatened assessment
would create a substantially larger charge and therefore
is not permissible. The sole question now presented,
they submit, is this: To what extent has the Irrigation
District the right to assess in order to provide for payment of delinquencies?
The Supreme Court of the State has declared that
under her laws the obligation of the bonds is a general
one; that "all lands within the District became and will
remain subject to specific assessment, in proportion to
benefits, until the obligation is paid." And thus the only
question for our consideration-the federal one-is
whether the State had power to create such a corporation
as that court has declared the Irrigation District to be
and to authorize the questioned assessm6nt.
The power of a State to create local improvement districts with authority to lay takes according to value, acreage, front foot, or benefits is definitely recognized by this
Court. Also that the action of such a district in apportioning the burden of taxaticin cannot be assailed under

ROBERTS v. IRRIGATION DIST.
71

Opinion of the Court.

the XIV Amendment unless palpably arbitrary and a
plain abuse. Fatlbrook Irrigation District v. Bradley,
164 U. S. 112, 176. Houck v. Little River DrainageDist.,
239 U. S. 254, 262; Miller & Lux v. Sacramento & San
Joaquin Drainage Dist., 256 U.S. 129; Valley Farms Co.
v. Westchester County, 261 U.S. 155.
If to meet a general obligation an irrigation district,
proceeding under authority granted by the State, should
lay a tax distributed according to value, there hardly
could be reasonable doubt of its validity under the XIV
Amendment. Fallbrook Irrigation District v. Bradley,
supra; French v. Barber Asphalt Paving Co., 181 U.S.
324; Webster v. Fargo, 181 U.S. 394. And in the present case we are unable to say that, because the assessment
was distributed in proportion to estimated benefits, an
exaction exceeding such benefits would amount to spoliation and represent a plain abuse of power. A general
tax distributed in proportion to benefits received is not
indicative of arbitrary action.
The principle applied in Norwood v. Baker, 172 U.S.
269, and similar cases, has no application here. Appellant's land will be assessed to meet a general obligation
of the corporation; and the mere fact that the apportioned
burden will exceed estimated benefits gives no color to the
claim of confiscation. As pointed out in the cases cited,
lands may be taxed to pay for local improvements although they receive no actual benefitS. Never, as the
Supreme Court of the State has said, was appellant entitled to the segregation of his share of the corporate
obligation. The statute did not contemplate that assessments against any tract should be limited to payment of
its increased value. A general obligation Was created and
every tract subjected thereto.
Affirmzed.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

took no part in the consid-

eration or decision of this case.

