EDELMAN v. BOEING AIR TRANSP.
Opinion of the Court.

EDELMAN, STATE TREASURER,

ET

AL. v.

BOEING

AIR. TRANSPORT, INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR. THE
TENTH CIRCUIT

No. 571.

Argued March 21, 1933.-Dedided April 17, 1933

1. A state use-tax may constitutionally be impbsed on gasoline that

has been imported and stored by an air-transport company and is
drawn from the tanks to fill the airplanes that use it in interstate
commerce, if the " use" to which the tax is applied iqin the withdrawal of the gasoline from the tanks and the placing of it in the
fuel tanks of the planes, before its use in interstate transportation
begins. Nashville, C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v. Wallace, 288 U.S. 249.
P. 251.
2. A possible interpretation of a state tax law which niight render it
unconstitutional, but which has not been and may never be adopted
by the state taxing officers or the state courts, will not be ruled
upon in a suit in a federal court of equity to enjoin collection of
the tax. P. 253.
61 F. (2d) 319, reversed.

SCERiORARI, 288 U.S. 595, to review the reversal of a

decree dismissing a bill to enjoin collection of a state tax.
Messrs. James A. Greenwood, Attorney General of
Wyoming, and George W. Ferguson, Assistant Attorney
General, with whom Messrs. Richard J. Jackson, Deputy
Attorney General, R. Dwight Wallace, Assistant Attorney
General, and T. S. Taliaferro, Jr., were on the brief, for
petitioners.
Mr. William M. Allen, with whom Messrs. John W.
Lacey, Elmer E. Todd, and Clarence R. Innis were on
the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Respondent, a Washington corporation operating airolanes in Wyoming, brought this suit in equity in the

250

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

District Court of Wyoming against petitioners, state tax
officials, and the cities of Cheyenne and Rock Springs, rto
enjoin the collection of a state excise tax levied upon the
use of gasoline by respondent within the State, as a violation of the commerce clause of the Constitution. As respondent waived relief by interlocutory injunction, see
Smith v. Wilson, 273 U.S. 388, 391, tho case was tried
before a single judge who upheld the tax and dismis sed
the case on the merits. 51 F. (2d) 130. On appeal the
Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit reversed the decree and directed that the petitioners be enjoined from
assessing the tax on gasoline procured by respondent by
"purchases completed outside the State of Wyoming and
then brought into that State and used in its planes in
interstate commerce." 61 F. (2d) 319. 'This Court
granted certiorari.
The statute1 levies a "license tax of four cents per
gallon . . . on all gasoline used or sold in this State . . .
for domestic consumption" and requires every "wholesaler" engaged in the "sale or use of gasoline" within
the State to report to the state treasurer each month' all
the gasoline "sold or used" by it in the State, and to
pay the tax upon it. Gasoline "exported or sold for exportation. from the State" is exempted from the tax. A
" wholesaler " is defined, as any person (1) who "imports
or causes to be imported gasoline ... for sale in the
State . . . to the jobber or consumer, or to the persons
. . . who, in turn, sell to the jobber or consumer," or
(2) who "produces, refines, manufactures, blends or compounds gasoline" in Wyoming " for use, sale or distribution in this State." In addition the statute provides that
"every person . . . who shall use any gasoline in this
State upon which the said tax has not been paid by any
'Wyoming Laws of 1929, c. 14, amending Laws of 1929, c. 139;
Laws of 1927, c. 70; Laws of 1925, c. 89; Laws of 1923, c. 73.

EDELMAN v. BOEING AIR TRANSP.
249

Opinion of the Court.

wholesaler in this State," shall render a like statement
and pay a like tax.
Respondent maintains an airplane service for the transportation in interstate commerce of passengers, mail and
express with airports at Cheyenne and Rock Springs. It
purchases gasoline both within and without the State,
which it intermingles and stores in tanks . . the two airports. It pays the tax without objection on all gasoline
which it sells within the State at its airports or withdraws
from the tanks for local use. But it contends, and the
court below held, that the tax cannot validly be applied
to the gasoline imported from outside the State, stored in
tanks at the airports and used for " filling" the interstate
airplanes in which it is eventually consumed.
The opinion below leaves us uncertain whether the injunction was granted upon the ground that the taxing
statute does not, in any event, apply to gasoline purchased
without the state, if not sold within it, or upon the ground
that the taxation of gasoline purchased, outside the state
and used at respondent's airports to " fill" its interstate
planes, though authorized by the statute, is a prohibited
burden on interstate commerce. But the bill of coinplaint sought no relif on the ground that the statute does
not apply to the gasoline so used and no question of the
applicability of the tax is argued here. Issue is joined on
the only question raised by the pleadings, whether the
taxation of the gasoline which respondent withdraws from
storage and uses for "filling " its planes imposes an unconstitutional burden on interstate commerce. Hence we
confine our decision to that question.
As the statute has been administratively construed and
applied, the tax is not levied upon the consumption of
gasoline in furnishing motive power for respondent's interstate planes. The tax is applied to the stored gasoline
as it is withdrawn from the storage tanks at the airport
and placed in the planes. No tax is collected for gasoline

252

OCTOBER TERM. 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 Us.

consumed in respondent's planes either on coming into the,
State or on going out. It is at the time of withdrawal
alone that "use" is measured for the purposes of the tax.
The stored gasoline is deemed to be "used" within the
State and therefore subject to the tax, when it is withdrawn from the tanks. Compare Nashville, Chattanooga
& St. Louis Ry. v. Wdllace, 288 U.S. 249; Gregg Dyeing
Co. v. Query, 286 U.S. 472; Hart Refiteries v. Harmon,
278 U.S. 499; Bowman v. Continental Oil Co., 256 U.S.
642.
A State may validly tax the "use'" to which'gasoline is
put in withdrawing it from storage within the State,
and placing it in the tanks of the planes, notwithstanding
that its ultimate function is to generate motive power for
carrying on interstate commerce. Such a tax cannot be*
distinguished from that considered and upheld in Nashvillz, Chattanooga & St. Louis R:V. v. Wallace, supra.
There it was pointed out that "there can be no valid objection to the taxation of the exercise of any right or power
incident to . . .. ownership of the gasoline, which falls
short of a tax directly imposed on its use in interstate commeroe, deemed forbidden in Helson v. Kentucky," 279 U.S.
245. As the exercise of the powers taxed, the storage and
withdraal from storage of the gasoline, was 'complete
before interstate commerce began, it was held that the
burden of the tax was too indirect and remote from the
functiop* of interstate commerce, to transgress constitutional limitations.
Despite the fact that the statute as applied is identical
in operation with that sustained in Nashville, Chattanooga & St. Louis Ry. v. Wallace, supra, respondent contends that as the statute is written, the tax is one on the
consumption of gasoline in propelling its airplanes in
interstate commerce, invalid under Helson v. Kentucky,
supra. In that case a Kentucky statute taxing the use of
gasoline was "applied to that purchased and placed in the
tanks of a ferry boat'outside the State for use in operat-

YOUNG v. MASCI.
249

253

Syllabus.

ing it in interstate commerce. The tax, which was levied
only with respect to the gasoline consumed while the ferry boat was within the State, was held to be invalid as, in
effect, a direct tax on the privilege of carrying on interstate commerce.
But the officers of Wyoming, charged with the enforcement of the taxing statute, are giving no such application
to it as was. given, to that in Ilelson v. Kentucky, supra,
and it is not suggested that they will. All that has been
done or threatened by them, under their interpretation
of the statute, infringes no constitutional right of the complainant. In the circumstances, no. case is presented,
either by pleadings or proof, calling on a federal court of
equity to rule upon the correctness of some, other construction which may never be adopted by the state administrative officials or by the state courts.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
YOUNG v. MASCI
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF ERRORS AND APPEALS OF NEW
JERSEY

No. 643.

Argued March 24, 1933.-Decided April 24, 1933

A state statute making the owner of an automobile liable for personal
injuries resulting from its negligent operation by another to whom
he has entrusted it, is consistent with due process as applied to a
non-resident owner who was not in that State when the accident
occurred and who had merely lent his machine to one not his agent
or engaged on business for him, with express or implied permission to
take it there from the State ofthe owner's. residence, where the bailment occurred and whose laws did not impose such liability. P. 256.
109 N.J.L. 453,-affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment affirming a recovery for personal injuries.

