OCTOBER TERM, 1932.

20

Sta.3ment of the Case.

289 U.S.

We have considered the arguments to the contrary, and
find them without merit.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is acAffirmed.
cordingly
ANDERSON, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v. WILSON ET AL., EXECUTORS *
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT

No. 460. Argued February 8, 9, 1933.-Decided March 13, 1933
1. A New York will, providing for the liquidation of residuary real
estate, the proceeds of which it bequeathed to designated beneficiaries, directed the executors within the period of two lives in
being to dispose of the property, as and when in their judgment
it could be sold to advantage. They were free to form and use
for this purpose a holding company if they saw fit, and to decide,
in their discretion, whether to distribute the proceeds of any sale
or to retain them for further conversion before distribution. Until
the time of distribution, the net income was to be paid semiannually to the beneficiaries. Held:
(1) That the executors took the fee title in trust, and not merely
a power. P. 24.
(2) By the law of New York, where land is left by will to
executors to convert into money and distribute, the executors take
the fee title upon the trust, and the beneficiaries have no interest in
the corpus other than to enforce performance of the trust. P. 25.
2. A loss resulting from a sale of real estate by executors holding
fee title on a trust to manage and sell and to distribute the proceeds, is a loss of the estate, and can not be deducted by the
beneficiary in making his personal return of income under the
Revenue Act of 1921. P. 26.
60 F. (2d) 52, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 287 U.S. 592, on cross petitions to review a
judgment reversing a judgment-51 F. (2d) 268-against
the Tax Collector and directing a retrial. Upon this reTogether with No. 461, Wilson et al., Executors, v. Anderson,
Collector of Internal Revenue.
*

ANDERSON v. WILSON.
Opinion of the Court.

20

view, the reversal is affirmed, but the cause is remanded
to the District Court with direction to dismiss'the complaint.
Assistant Attorney General Rugg, with whom Solicitor
General Thacher, Assistant Attorney General Youngquist,
Miss Helen R. Carloss, and Messrs. Sewall Key and Erwin
N. Griswold were on the brief, for Anderson, Collector.
Mr. George E. Cleary, with whom Mr. Clark T. Brown
was on the brief, for Wilson et al., Executors.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The question to be decided is whether the difference
between the value of real estate at the death of a testator
and the proceeds realized thereafter upon a sale by the
trustees may be deducted as a loss by the taxpayer, the
beneficial owner of the proceeds, upon his return to the
collector for the income of the year.
Richard T. Wilson, Sr., a resident of New York, died
in November, 1910, the owner of a large estate. By the
fourth article of his will he directed his executors to sell
and convert into personalty his entire residuary estate, and
to divide the proceeds thereof into five equal parts. Out
of the fifth part set aside for the use of his son, Richard
T. Wilson., Jr., the sum of $500,000 was to be held for
the use of the son during life with remainder to lineal
descendants, and in default of such descendants to others.
"The balance of such part I give to my said son, Richard
T. Wilson, Jr., to be his absolutely."
This gift, if it had stood alone, might have seemed to
allow to the executors no discretion as to the time of sale,
and might have bred uncertainty as to their powers and
duties before the time for distribution. The next or fifth
article clarifies the meaning. Thc testator there recalls
the fact that after setting tip the trust for 5500.000 and

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

other special funds, a large part of his residuary estate will
consist of real estate in New York and other states, and
shares of manufacturing and business corporations,
"which should not be sold excepting under favorable conditions." Accordingly he lays upon his executors the
following command: "to hold and manage such remaining portion of my residuary estate until in their judgment
it can from time to time be advantageously sold and disposed of, not exceeding, however, a period longer than
the lives of my sons Marshall Orme Wilson and Richard
T. Wilson, Jr., and the survivor of them, and I hereby
authorize and empower my said executors within said
period to sell, convey, assign and transfer the same, or
any part thereof, at such time or times as they may deem
for the best interests of my estate, and upon such terms
and conditions as they may deem proper, including the
terms and mode of payment thereof." Nor is this all.
The executors are authorized in their discretion to organize a corporation, to convey to it the whole or any
part of the residuary estate in return for the capital stock,
and to hold the stock "until it can in their judgment be
advantageously disposed of." Finally there is a provision
that upon the making of a sale, the executors in their discretion may distribute the proceeds, "or retain the same,
or any part thereof for further conversion before distribution, not, however, beyond the period of the lives of
my said sons and the survivor of them." Until the time
of distribution the net income is to be paid semi-annually
to those entitled to receive it.
Included in the real estate at the death. of the testator
was a building in the City of New York known as the
"Commercial Building," of a value at that time of
$290,000. This building the executors held till 1922, when
they sold it for $165,000. After allowance for depreciation,
the loss to the estate by reason of this sale was $113,300.
The executors were at liberty to distribute the entire pro-

ANDERSON v. WILSON.
20

Opinion of the Court.

ceeds ($165,000) among the residuary legatees if their
judgment moved them to that course. They did not do
so. They distributed only $50,000, and held the balance
in the trust. One fifth of the part distributed belonged
and was paid to Richard T. Wilson, Jr. One fifth of the
part retained was held for his use as it had been before
the sale.
The present controversy grows out of a tax return of
income for 1922. From the gross income of that year the
taxpayer, Richard T. Wilson, Jr., deducted $25,001.17,
one-fifth, according to his computation, of the loss resulting from the sale. It was aftervards agreed that one-fifth
of the loss was not more than $22,660, and that the
amount of the claimed deduction should be corrected
accordingly. The Commissioner disallowed the loss altogether, and assessed an additional tax. The taxpayer
upon payment bf the tax filed a claim for refund which
the Commissioner rejected. This suit was then brought
to recover the amount paid upon the additional assessment. During the pendency of the suit the taxpayer died,
and his executors were substituted. The District Court
gave judgment in their favor, holding that one-fifth of the
loss upon the sale of the Commercial Building was a loss
suffered by the taxpayer, the beneficiary of the trust, and
was a proper deduction from his income for the year of
sale. Upon an appeal by the Government, the Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit sustained the representatives of the taxpayer in their claim for a deduction,
but reduced the amount. In the view of that court the
loss allowable to the beneficiary was not one-fifth of the
entire loss that had been suffered by the trust estate, but
only that part of one-fifth of the total loss represented
by the ratio between the part of the proceeds presently
distributed (not more than $50,000), and $165,000, the
entire proceeds of the sale. The record left room for
some uncertainty whether the payment of $50,000 had

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

been derived altogether from a sale of the Commercial
Building, or in part from other sources. To the end that
this uncertainty might be removed, the judgment of the
District Court was reversed, and the cause remanded for
retrial in'accordance with the opinion. •60 F. (2d) 52.
Cross-petitions for certiorari, allowed by this court, have
brought the controversy here. In No. 460, the Government complains that there was error in the refusal to
disallow the deduction altogether. In No. 461, the representatives of the taxpayer complain that there was error
to their prejudice in restricting the amount.
To determine whether the loss was one suffered by
the trust estate, or one suffered by the taxpayer to whom
the proceeds of the sale were payable, there is need at
the outset to determine the meaning of the will. The
Government contends, and so the courts below have held,
that title to the realty was given to the executors upon a
valid trust to sell and to apply the rents and profits in
the interval., The representatives of the taxpayer contend that the executors had no title, but only a power in
trust, and that subject to'the execution of that power, the
taxpayer was owner. If that be so, the loss was his and
no one else's. A mere donee ofa power is not the owner
of an estate, nor to be classed as a juristic entity to which
a loss can be attributed. We think, however, that what
passed to the executors was owneiship or title. True the
will Ooes not say in so many words that the residuary
estate is given or devised to them, but the absence of
such wbrds is of no controlling significance when a gift
or devise is the appropriate and normal medium for the
attainment of purposes explicitly declared. Robert v.
Corning, 89 N.Y. 225, 237; Vernon v. Vernon, 53 N.Y.
351, 359; Tobias v. Ketihum, 32 N.Y. 319; Brewster v.
Striker, 2 N.Y.''19. Nothing less than ownership will
supply that medium here. The executors are charged

ANDERSON v. WILSON.
20

Opinion of the Court.

with active and continuing duties not susceptible of fulfilment without possession and dominion. They are to
collect the income and pay it over in semi-annual, instalments after deducting the expenses. They are to "hold
and' manage" the estate with full discretionary powers.
They are even at liberty to convey it to a corporation
if they believe that efficient administration will thereby
be promoted. Under reiterated judgments of the highest
court of New York they are more than the donees of a
power. They are the repositories of title. Morse v.
Morse, 85' N.Y. 53.; Robert v. Coming, supra; Ward v.
Ward, 105 N.Y. 68; 11 N.E. 373; Mee v. Gordon, 187
N.Y. 400; 80 N.E. 353; Putnam v. Lincoln Safe Deposit
Co., 191 N.Y. 166, 182; 83 N.E. 789; Striker v. Daly,
223 N.Y. 468, 472; 119 N.E. 882.
Another. question of construction has yet to be considered. We have seen that the effect of the will was to
clothe the executors with title to the land. We' have yet
to determine whether the title that came to them was
the fee or something less. If it was the fee, the whole
estate was in them, and no one else had any ownership
or interest in the land as distinguished from ownership
or interest in the proceeds of a sale. Delafield v. Barlow,
107 N.Y. 535; 14 N.E. 498; Salisbury v. Slade, 160 N.Y.
278, 290; 54 N.E. 741; Weintraub v. Siegel, 133 App.
Div. (N.Y.) 677, 681; 118 N.Y.S. 261. If it was less
than the fee, .there may have vested in others upon the
death of the testator a future estate in remainder, which
would take effect in possession on the termination of the
trust. Losey v. Stanley, 147 N.Y. 560, 568; 42 N.E. 8;,
Stevenson v. Lesley, 70 N.Y. 512; Matter of Easterly,
202 N.Y. 466, 474; 96 N.E. 122. Under the law of New
York',what passed to! these executors was the title to the
fee. By the will of this testatorall his property, real and
personal ' (with exceptions not now material) v¢as to be

26

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

converted into money.' The five sons and daughters
among whom the money was to be divided had no interest in the land, aside from a right in equity to compel
the performance of the trust. Real Property Law of New
York, § 100; Schenck v. Barnes, 156 N.Y. 316, 321; 50
N.E. 967; Melenky v. Melen, 233 N.Y. 19, 23; 134 N.E.
822. What was given to them was the money forthcoming
-from a sale. Delafield v. Barlow, Salisbury v. Slade,
Weintraub v. Siegel, supra. Their interest in the corpus
was that and nothing more.
Our answer to the inquiry as to the meaning of the
will comes close to being an answer to the inquiry as to
the incidence of the loss. The taxpayer has received the
only legacy bequeathed to him, and received it as it was
given without the abatement of a dollar. What was bequeathed was an interest in a fund to be made up when
the trustees were of opinion that it would be advisable
to sell. This alone was given, and this has been received.
There has been no loss by the taxpayer of anything that
belonged to him before the hour of the sale, for nothing
was ever his until the sale had been made and the fund
thereby created. A shrinkage of values between the creation of the power of sale and its discretionary exercise
is a loss to the trust, which may be allowable as a deduction upon a return by the trustees. It is not a loss to a
legatee who has received his legacy in full. One might
as well say that a legatee of shares of stock to be bought
by executors out of the moneys of the estate would have
an allowance of a loss upon a showing that the value
would have been greater if the executors in the exercise
of their discretion had bought sooner than they did.
The legatee must take the legacy as the testator has
bequeathed it.
We hold that the trust, and not the taxpayer, has
suffered the loss resulting from the sale of the Commercial

ANDERSON v. WILSON.
20

Opinion of the Court.

Building,, and it follows that where loss has not been
suffered, there is none to be allowed. Whether the result
would be the same if the beneficiaries had been the owner
of future estates in remainder, we are not required to
determine. Cf. Francis v. Commissibner, 15 B.T.A.
1332, 1340. Our ruling will be kept within the limits of
the case before us. In so ruling we do not forget that the
trust is an abstraction, and that the economic pinch is
felt by men of flesh and blood,. Even so, the law has seen
fit to deal with this abstraction for income tax purposes
as a separate existence, making its own return under the
hand of the fiduciary and claiming and receiving its own
appropriate deductions. The levenue Act of 1921 under
which the tax in question was imposed defines the word
"taxpayer" as including a trust or an estate. Revenue
Act of 1921, c. 136; 42 Stat. 227, § 2 (9). 'The definition
is pursued to its logical conclusion in a long series of
decisions. Baltzell v. Mitchell, 3 F. (2d) 428; Whitcomb
v. Blair, 58 App.D.C. 104; 25 F. (2d) 528; Abell v. Tait,
30 F. (2d) 54; Busch v. Commissioner, 50 F. (2d) 800,
801; Roxburghe v. Burnet, 61 App.D.C. 141; 58 F. (2d)
693; cf. Merchants Loan & Trust Co. v. Smietanka, 255
U.S. 509. These and other cases bear witness to the rule
that an equitable life tenant may not receive a deduction
for the loss of capital assets of the trust, though the result
of such a loss is a reduction of his income. The argument
will not hold that what was lost to this taxpayer was not
the capital of the trust, but rather his own capital, withdrawn from his possession, but held for his account by the
executors as custodians or bailiffs. His capital was in the
proceeds, to the extent that they were distributed, and
never in the land. We do not pause to consider whether
a statute differently conceived and framed would yield
results more consonant with fairness and reason. We
take the statute as we find it.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.

28

Counsel for Parties.

289 U.S.

The Circuit Court of Appeals did not err in reversing
the judgment of the District Court. It did err in its
instructions as to the relief upon a second trial.
The judgment of reversal is accordingly affirmed, and
the cause remanded to the District Court with instructions that a judgment should be entered dismissing the
Affirmed.

complaint.

BEMIS BRO. BAG CO. v. UNITED STATES
CERTIORARI

No. 515.

TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF
EIGHTH CIRCUIT

APPEALS FOR THE

Argued February 13, 14, 1933.-Decided March 13, 1933

A claim for a tax refund giving notice that, in the assessment of excess profits, items have been erroneously omitted from invested
capital, and praying for a special assessment under §§ 327 (a) and
328, Revenue Act of 1918, on the ground that invested capital can
not be determined in the ordinary way, is amendable, after the
period for filing original claims has expired, by adding an alternative prayer that, if the special assessment be denied, the omitted
items may be restored to invested capital and the tax be recalculated on that basis. United States v. Henry Prentiss & Co., 288
U.S. 73; United States v. Factors & Finance Co., 288 U.S. 89.
P. 33.
60 F. (2d) 944, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

288 U.S. 594, to review a judgment of the

Circuit Court of Appeals which affirmed a judgment of
the Distriat Court rejecting a claim for refund of income
and excess profits taxes.
Mr. Abraham Lowenhaupt, with whom Messrs. Stanley

S. Waite and R.S.Doyle were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Erwin N. Griswold, with whom Solicitor General
Thacher, Assistant Attorney General Youngquist, and
Messrs. Sewall Key and J. P. Jackson were on the brief,

for the United States.

