LANG v. COMMISSIONER.

109

Statement of the Case.
LANG

v.

COMMISSIONER
REVENUE

OF

INTERNAL

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOURTH

No. 595.

FOR THE

CIRCUIT

Argued March 22, 1933.-Decided April 10, 1933

1. Section 204 (a) of the Revenue Act of 1926 provides: "The basis
for determining the gain or loss from the sale or other disposition
of property acquired after February 28, 1913, shall be the -cost of
such property; except that"(5) If the property was acquired by bequest, devise, or inheritance, the basis shall be the fair market value of such property at
the time of such acquisition." Held:
(1) That upon the termination of an estate by the entirety
through the death of one spouse, the survivor does not succeed to
anything by "inheritance," within the meaning of this exception,
but holds the estate under the original limitation, it being merely
freed from participation by the other tenant. Tyler v. United
States, 281 U.S. 497, distinguished. P. 110.
(2) Therefore, upon a sale of the property by the survivor, the
gain was properly determined on the basis of what the two tenants
paid for the property when acquired, and not upon the basis of the
part of that payment that was contributed by the survivor added
to a part of the value of the property at the time of the other
spouse's death proportionate to his contribution to the purchase. Id.
2. This construction is confirmed by the fact that the statute expressly declares the exception applicable to certain of the interests
that are listed in § 302 as embraced in decedents estates, but significantly omits from the declaration the interest of a tenant by the
entirety, although it also is listed in that section. P. 111.
3. Unless there is a violation of the Constitution, Congress may select
the subjects of taxation and tax them differently as it sees fit; and
if it does so in plain words, the courts are not at liberty to modify
the Act by construction in order to avoid special hardship. P. 113.
61 F. (2d) 280, affirmed.
.- CERTIORARI, 288 U.S. 596, to review the affirmance of
a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals, 23 B.T.A. 854,

sustaining a deficiency assessment of income taxes.

110

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

Mr. Washington Bowie, Jr., with whom Mr. J. R. Sherrod was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Whitney North Seymour, with whom Solicitor
General Thacher and Messrs. Sewall Key and Norman
D. Keller were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
In 1915 petitioner and her husband purchased certain
real property at a cost of $13,000, title being vested in
them as tenants by the entirety. Of this amount petitioner contributed $1,560 (12 per cent.), and her husband
the remaining 88 per cent. The husband died in 1924,
the property at that time having a market value of
$40,000; and 88 per cent. of that amount was included
in the value of the decedent's gross estate for the purposes
of the federal estate tax. In 1925 the property was sold.
for the sum last named. Petitioner, in her income tax
return for that year, computed the profit on the basis of
the market value of the property at the time of her husband's death, with the exception of 12 per cent., representing the sum which she had contributed to the purchase price of $13,000. The Commissioner determined a
deficiency, using the entire 1915 cost as the basis for
computing the amount of profit realized. The Commissioner's ruling was affirmed by a decision of the Board
of Tax Appeals (23 B.T.A. 854), and that in turn was
affirmed by the court below. 61 F. (2d) 280.
The question to be determined, therefore, is Whether
cost of the property in i915, or its market value at the
time of decedent's death (with allowable deductions), is
the proper basis for determining the gain from the sale
in 1925.
The solution of the problem depends upon the meaning
of the provision contained in § 204 (a) of the Revenue
Act of 1926, c. 27,.44 Stat. 9, 14, which reads:

LANG v. COMMISSIONER.
109

Opinion of the Court.

"The basis for determining the gain or loss from the
sale or other disposition of property acquired after February 28, 1913, shall be the cost of such property: except
that"(5) If the property was acquired by bequest, devise,
or inheritance, the basis shall be the fair market value of
such. property at the time of such acquisition."
An estate by the entirety is held by the husband and
wife in single ownership, by a single title. They do not
take by moieties, but both and each take the whole estate,
that is to say, the entirety. The tenancy results from the
common law principle of marital unity; and is said to be
sui generis. Upon the death of one of the tenants "the
survivor does not take as a new acquisition, but under
the original limitation, his estate being simply freed from
participation by the other; .
"
1 Washburn, Real
Property, 6th ed., § 912. In the present case, therefore,
when the husband died, the wife, in respect of this estate,
did not succeed to anything. She simply continued, in
virtue of the nature of the tenancy, to, possess and own
what she already had. Giving the words of the statute
their natural and ordinary meaning, as must be done, it is
obvious that nothing passed to her by bequest, devise, or
inheritance.
The foregoing view is confirmed, if that be necessary,
by a consideration of the language immediately following
the quotation from paragraph (5), § 204 (a), supra,
namely, "The provisions of this paragraph shall apply to
the acquisition of such property interests as are specified
in subdivision . . . (c) or (f) of section 302 of this
Act." Subdivision (c) deals with transfers by the decedent made in contemplation of or intended to take effect
in possession or enjoyment at or after his death; and subdivision (f) has reference to property passing under a
general power of appointment, exercised by the decedent

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

by will or deed in like contemplation' or with like intention. Ch. 27, 44 Stat. 70-71. The significant circumstance is that subdivision (e), which relates to interests'
held as joint tenants by the decedent and any other person, or as tenants by the entirety by the decedent and
spouse, is not included in the enumeration. The result is
that the interest held by a joint tenant or tenants by the
entirety is expressly included in determining the value of
the gross estate for purposes of the estate tax, but not so
included as a basis for determining gain or loss under
§ 204 (a). The express inclusion of the subdivision in the
former case and its omission in the latter persuasively
suggests that Congress did not intend to include estates
by the entirety under the phrase "by bequest, devise, or'
inheritance." If Congress did so intend, it is hard to
understand why subdivision (e) of § 302 was not expressly adopted as were (c) and (f). Compare Bend v.
Hoyt, 13 Pet. 263, 272-273.
It is said that the decision of this court in Tyler V.
United States, 281 U.S. 497, requires a different conclusion. But that case does not decide that property held
by tenants by the entirety is inherited by the survivor
or passes from the dead to the living by right of succession. The decision rests alone "upon the fact that Congress had provided in express words-§ 202 (c), Revenue
Act of 1916, c. 463, 39 Stat. 756, 777-778-that the value
of such property, to the extent designated in subdivision
(c), should be included for the purpose of determining
the value of the. gross estate. And the tax was upheld
not upon the theory that there was a "transfer" of the
.property by the death of decedent, or a receipt of it by
right of succession, but upon the ground that death had
resulted in such an accession of rights in respect of the
control of the property as to make appropriate the imposition of a tax upon that result. In other words, the
death of thehusband had the effect of freeing the estate

MOFFAT TUNNEL LEAGUE v. U.S.
Syllabus.

109

from his equal right of participation in its possession, use
and disposition, which, while he lived, stood in the way
of the wife's exclusive enjoyment of those rights which
ordinarily flow from ownership; and this expansion of her
power of control, and consequent enlargement of its value,
furnished a sufficient occasion for the imposition of an
excise tax, which Congress might denominate a death tax,
or a transfer tax, or anything else it saw fit, although, in
the absence of an expression of the legislative will, it properly could not thu be characterized. Tyler v. United
States, supra, at pp. 502-503.
If the legislation here under review results in imposing
an unfair burden upon the taxpayer, the remedy is with
Congress and not with the courts. Unless there is a violation of the Constitution, Congress may select the. subjects of taxation and tax them differently as it sees fit;
and if it does so in plain words, as it has done here, the
courts are not at liberty to modify the act by construction
in order to avoid special hardship. Crooks v. Harrelson,
Judgment affirmed.
282 U.S. 55, 61.

MOFFAT TUNNEL LEAGUE ET
STATES ET AL.

AL.

v. UNITED

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF DELAWARE

No. 499.

Argued February 15, 1933.-Decided April 10, 1933

1. Voluntary associations which are not corporations, or quasicorporations, nor organized pursuant to or recognized by any
law, are not legal persons, and without the authority of statute
have no capacity to sue. P. 118.
2. In a suit against the United States to set aside an order of the
Interstate Commerce Commission authorizing one railroad company to acquire control of another by purchase of its stock, the
complaint must show that the plaintiff has, or represents others
having, a legal right or interest that will be injuriously affected by
the order. P. 119.
15450*-33-8

