SINCLAIR RFG. CO. v. JENKINS CO.
685

Syllabus.

cipal intact for return to the grantor unless instructed to
retain it longer. The situation in its legal effect would
not be greatly different if the trusts had been created for
a month or from day to day. One who retains for himself
so many of the attributes of ownership is not the victim
of despotic power when for the purpose of taxation he
is treated as owner altogether.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER, MR. JUSTICE MIcREYNOLDS, MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

concur upon the reasons stated in the last paragraph.
SINCLAIR REFINING CO. v. JENKINS PETROLEUM PROCESS CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 752.

Argued May 11, 12, 1933.-Decided May 29, 1933.

1. A bill of discovery will lie in a federal court to aid in proving
damages of the plaintiff in an action on the law side, if the complication of accounts or other practical impediments make it necessary that the evidence be sifted in advance of the jury trial. P. 693.
2. Granting of this remedy is discretionary; and the party against
whom it is sought will be protected from impertinent intrusion into
his business affairs. P. 696.
3. In the present case discovery was sought in good faith and on
probable cause, and the defendant was properly protected by a
decree limiting the discovery in advance of trial to general facts,
but providing that the bill be retained for fuller inspection of
records, etc., without delay, in case of need. P. 697.
4. In an action at law to recover the damages resulting from the
breach of a contract to assign an application for a patent, the use
made by the defendant of the patented device, after the breach
of contract, may be considered in appraising the value*of the invention as of the time of the breach. P. 697.
62 F. (2d) 663, affirmed.
15450--3-44

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 UB.

CERTIORARI* to review the reversal of a decree, 56 F.
(2d) 272, dismissing a bill of discovery in aid of an action
at law to recover -damages for breach of a contract to
assign an application for a patent. For earlier phases,
see,32 F. (2d) 247; id., 252.

Mr. Dean S. Edmond8, with whom Mr. Frank E. Barrows was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. C. Stanley Thompson, with whom Mr. Frederick
Sc4afer was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUsTIcE CMADozo delivered the opinion of the
Court.
A bill of discovery in aid of an action at law was dismissed by the District Court, 56 F. (2d) 272, but upheld
upon appeal by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 62 F. (2d)
663. The question is whether the bill is good upon its
face.
The respondent, Jenkins Petroleum Process Company,
loaned to the petitioner, Sinclair Refining Company, then
known as the Cudahy Refining Company, an experimental still for cracking petroleum oils to produce gasoline.
By written agreement, any improvements developed as
the result of the work of the petitioner's engineers and
experts in making themselves familiar with the Jenkins
apparatus or process were to belong to the respondent.
The petitioner, or its predecessor, undertook, so far as it
was able, to cause its employees to execute applications
for patents in the United States and elsewhere in order
to protect such improvements, and to assign the applications to the petitioner together with the improvements
affected thereby.
In January, 1921, the respondent filed a bill in equity
for specific performance. Isom, an employee of the peti*Bee

Table of Cases Reported in this Volume.

SINCLAIR RFG. CO. v. JENKINS CO.
689

Opinion of the Court.

tioner, applied for a patent on September 10, 1917, and
when the patent was issued on November 19, 1918, assigned it to his employer. The respondent made claim
to the patent on the ground that it was an improvement
of the Jenkins invention. After a trial upon the merits,
the bill for specific performance was dismissed, the court
holding that there was doubt whether Isom's invention
was the outcome of his use of the Jenkins apparatus, or
of independent thought and knowledge. 32 F. (2d) 247.
There was an appeal from the decree to the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the First Circuit. That court invoked the
principle that to uphold a decree for specific performance
there must be clear and convincing evidence, and not
merely such evidence as would sustain a recovery at law.
In that view the decree was affirmed in so far as it dismissed the prayer for equitable relief, but the dismissal
was coupled with a direction that the cause be transferred
to the law side of the court, the plaintiff to have leave to
amend by turning his cause of action into one for the
recovery of damages. 32 F. (2d) 252.
The action at law is now at issue, and the plaintiff
prays for a discovery. It alleges in its bill that the evidence of the facts to be discovered is contained in voluminous books and documents which could not be inspected
or proved upon a trial at law for damages without confusion and delay. Discovery is demanded as to the number of cracking stills constructed by the defendant under
the Isom patent; as to the extent and time of operation;
and as to the amount of gasoline and other petroleum
products yielded thereby, with an inspection of the relevant designs and drawings. The District Court granted
a motion to dismiss the bill, placing its decision upon two
grounds, (1) that a bill of discovery will not lie when
the facts to be discovered relate to damages only, and (2)
that the value of the patents has no relation ' to the sales
of the patented device, and that evidence of such sales

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

would be inadmissible if offered. The Court of Appeals
reversed, one judge dissenting. In the view of the majority of the court, the damages to be recovered in an
action at law may be proved by resort to a discovery in
equity, if the ancillary remedy is reasonably necessary
to advance the ends of justice. Munger v. Firestone Tire
& Rubber Co., 261 Fed. 921, and Loose v. Bellows Falls
Pulp Plaster Co., 266 Fed. 81, were disapproved to the
extent that they involve a ruling to the contrary. As to
the measure of damages, and the evidence pertinent
thereto, the court held that the plaintiff was not concerned with the defendant's profits, since it was suing for
breach of contract, and not as equitable owner. Even so,
in ascertaining the value of the patent at the time of the
breach, the triers of the facts would be at liberty to consider the commercial use that had been made of the
patented device. The court went on to indicate restrictions as -to the order of proof which were thought to be
appropriate. At first and as part of the case in chief,
the plaintiff was to be confined within rather narrow
limits. It might show "the general facts about the Isom
invention, not specific instances of profitable use by this
person or that." The need for greater detail, however,
might develop with the trial. "If . . . the defendant should deny the utility and commercial success of the
invention, evidence of the defendant's use of it might be
highly significant; and under those circumstances the
plaintiff would be entitled to discovery of them." The
information to be exacted of the defendant was thus, in
the view of the court, to be adjusted to the need. To
permit that adjustment the bill was to be retained until
the trial, and prompt discovery would then be ordered
if the situation thus developed should call for that relief.
A writ of certiorari prayed for by the defendant, has
brought the case here.

SINCLAIR RFG. CO. v. JENKINS CO.
689

693

Opinion of the Court.

1. The remedy of discovery is as appropriate for proof
of a plaintiff's damages as it is for proof of other facts
essential to his case.
Help for the solution of problems of this order is not
to be looked for in restrictive formulas. Procedure must
have the capacity of flexible adjustment to changing
groups of facts. The law of discovery has been invested
at times with unnecessary mystery. There are few fields
where considerations of practical convenience should play
a larger rSle. The rationale of the remedy, when used
as an auxiliary process in aid of trials at law, is simplicity
itself. At times, cases will not be proved, or will be
proved clumsily or wastefully, if the litigant is not permitted to gather his evidence in advance. When this necessity is made out with reasonable certainty, a bill in
equity is maintainable to give him what he needs. Equity
Rule 58. There were other reasons in times past, when
parties were not permitted to be witnesses, and when
there was no compulsory process for the production of
books or documents. Carpenter v. Winn, 221 U.S. 533;
Pressed Steel Car Co. v. Union Pacific R. Co., 240 Fed.
135, 136. Today the remedy survives, chiefly, if not
wholly, to give facility to proof. In the practice of many
states there is a summary substitute by an order for examination before trial or for the inspection of books and
papers. The substitute has never found its way into the
procedure of the federal courts. Ex parte Fisk, 113 U.S.
713. The remedy in those courts is still by bill in equity
as in days before the codes. Colgate v. Compagnie Francaise, 23 Fed. 82; Pressed Steel Car Co. v. Union Pacific
R. Co., supra.
To state the function of the remedy is to give the password to its use. There are times when a suit is triable in
separate parts, one affecting the right or liability, and
the other affecting the measure of recovery. In suits of

694

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

that order a discovery as to damages will commonly be
postponed till the right or liability has been established
or declared. Schrieber v. Heyman, 63 L.J.Rep. 749
(1894); Elkin v. Clarke, 21 W.R. 447 (1873); Parker v.
Wells, L.R. 18 Ch. Div. 477; Fennessy v. Clark, L.R. 37
Ch. Div. 184; De la Rue v. Dickinson, 3 K. & J. 388;
Peile, The Law and Practice of Discovery, pp. 26-29;
Bray, Principles and Practice of Discovery, pp. 14, 15;
Wigram, Points in the Law of Discovery, ยง 45. As a
general thing it will be useless to decree it any earlier,
and may even be oppressive. "The principle of judicial
parsimony" (L. Hand, J., in Pressed Steel Cqr Co. v.
Union Pacific R. Co., supra), if nothing more, condemns
a useless remedy. This division of the trial into stages or
instalments will happen oftenest in suits in equity, though
it is not unknown in actions at law where a jury has been
waived. In equity it is common practice. Thus, a suit
to establish a partnership or to restrain the infringement
of a patent culminates, if successful, in an interlocutory
decree, which will be followed by an accounting and a
discovery of documents. In these and like cases, the
accounts will not be probed until the right has been
adjudged.
A different situation is presented where the action is
at law and is triable by judge and jury. There interlocutory judgments are unknown, at all events where the defendant has answered generally and not by special plea,
and the verdict establishing the right establishes at the
same time the amount to be recovered. The answer beirg general, the case according to common la-- practice
must be tried as a unit and nQt broken into parts. In
such circumstances damages may be proved with the aid
of a discovery, if the complication of accounts or other
practical impediments make it necessary that the evidence
be sifted in advance. Pape v. Lister, L.R. 6 Q.B. 242;
Saunders v. Jones, L.R. 7 Ch. Div. 435, 452; Elkin v.

SINCLAIR RFG. CO. v. JENKINS CO.
68

695

Opinion of the Court.

Clarke, supra; Sherwood Bros. v. Yellow Cab Co., 283

Pa. St. 488, 491, 492; 129 Atl. 563; Wells v. Holman, 115
S.C. 443; 106 S.E. 224; McKinnon Young Co. v. Stockton,
55 Fla. 708; 46 So. 87; Burns v. Lipson, 204 App. Div.
(N.Y.) 643; 198 N.Y.S. 810; Webb v. Homer W. Hedge.
Co., 133 App. Div. (N.Y') 420; 117 N.Y.S. 643; Iroquois
Hotel & Apartment Co. v. Iroquois Realty Co., 126 App.
Div. 814; 111 N.Y.S. 172; Harbaugh v. Middlesex Securities Co., 110 App. Div. 633; 97 N.Y.S. 350; Peile,
supra, p. 112; Bray, supra, p. 21. "I have consulted my
learned Brothers," said Lush, J., in Pape v. Lister, supra,
"and the conclusion at which we have arrived is that thi:
rule must be made absolute. I do not agree with Mr.
Wills's contention that 'relating to such action' means
relating to the issues raised. I think if documents relate
to the amount of damages, 'that is quite sufficient."
Munger v. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co., 261 Fed. 921,
is cited by the petitioner as supporting a general rule that
the necessity of proving damages is never a sufficient
ground for a discovery in equity. If confined to its special facts, the decision may not be wrong. Very likely
the bill was insufficient to make out a prima facie showing of right or liability. If the case stands for more than
that, as the opinion indicates it does, it does not have our
approval. The point is made in it that damages are not
part of the "issues" in a lawsuit, and that the interrogdtories to be answered by a defendant under a bill of
discovery are to be directed to the issues and not to anythinielse. There is indeed a rule of common law pleading that the statement of general damages in the ad
damnum clause of a complaint is not an issuable allegation. McClelland v. Climax Hosiery Mills, 252 N.Y. 347,
356; 169 N.E. 605; Howell v. Bennett, 74 Hun 555, 558;
26 N.Y.S. 627. This does not mean, however, that the
plaintiff will not have to prove his damages if he wishes
to get more than a nominal verdict. Quite to the con-

696

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opiron of the Court.

289 U.S.

trary, it means that he will have to prove them though
the defendant has omitted to deny them in the answer.
It is a non sequitur to argue from this that the quantum
of the damages is not a part of the case to be proved
through the aid of a discovery if proof upon the trial will
be burdensome or difficult. To this it must be added
that interrogatories today are no longer any part of the
pleadings, whatever they may once have been. Equity
Rule 58 has taken that quality away from them. Luten
v. Camp, 221 Fed. 424. They are not instruments in any
technical sense for the joinder of issue. They are forms
of examination preliminary to trial.
The petitioner is not helped by our decision in United
States v. Bitter Root Development Co., 200 U.S. 451, 472.
The complainant in that suit did not seek a discovery in
aid of an action at law for the recovery of damages. The
suit was for general relief as well as for discovery, the
prayer for discovery being merely incidental. The complainant was attempting to trangfer to a court of equity
the control of a suit that was triable at law. Cf. Colgate
v. Compagnie Francaise,supra,p. 85; Whittemore v. Patten, 81 Fed. 527; Wigram, supra, ยง 10. The incident fell
with the fall of the principal.
Loose v. Bellows Falls Pulp Plaster Co., supra, also
cited by the petitioner, has a dictum approving the decision in Munger v. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co., supra,
but the point was not involved, for the plaintiff was, not
asking for discovery as an auxiliary remedy in furtherance of his remedy at law, but was attempting, like the
complainant in the Bitter Root case, to subject the entire
suit to the jurisdiction of equity
To hold that the plaintiff in an action at law may have
discovery of damages is not to say that the remedy will
be. granted as of course, or that protection will not be
given to his adversary against impertinent intrusion.
Wigram, supra, ยง 115. The court may decline to open

SINCLAIR RFG. CO. v. JENKINS CO.
689

Opinion of the Court.

the defendant's records to the scrutiny of a competitor
posing as a suitor, if the suit has been begun without
probable cause or as an instrument of malice. It is all a
matter of discretion. Good faith and probable cause were
here abundantly established. The remedy of specific performance had been refused, but the very court that refused it had found sufficient merit in the suit to call for
an amendment of the pleadings that would give the
plaintiff an opportunity to maintain a remedy at law.
The decree under review protects the petitioner with
sedulous forethought against an oppressive inquisition.
Only the most general facts are to be discovered in advance of trial. The bill is to be retained, however, to be
available in case of need. If the occasion for fuller
scrutiny shall afterwards develop, there may thus be an
inspection of the records without the delay that would be
inevitable if a new bill had to be filed with a new opportunity to the defendant to answer or demur. Presumably the jury could be held together in the interval, and
the trial at law adjourned. This relief may have been
less than the plaintiff should have had. It was certainly
not more.
2. The use that has been made of the patented device
is a legitimate aid to the appraisal of the value of the
patent at the time of the breach.
This is not a case where the recovery can be measured
by the current prices of a market. A patent is a thing
unique. There can be no contemporaneous sales to express the market value of an invention that derives from
its novelty its patentable quality. Cf. United States v.
Swift &.Co., 270 U.S. 124; Todd v. Gamble?148 N.Y. 382;
42 N.E. 982. But the absence of market value does not
mean that the offender shall go quit of liability altogether.
The law will make the best appraisal that it can, summoning to its service whatever aids it can command.
United States, v. Swift & Co., supra; U.S. Frwmentum

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

Co. v. Lauhoif, 216 Fed. 610; Industrial& General Trust,
Ltd. v. Tod, 180 N.Y. 215, 232; 73 N.E. 7; Sedgwick,
Damages, 9th ed., vol. 1, pp. 491, 504. At times the only
evidence available may be that supplied by testimony of
experts as to the state of the art, the character of the
improvement, and the probable increase of efficiency or
saving of expense. Dowagiac Mfg. Co. v. Minnesota
Moline Plow Co., 235 U.S. 641, 648, 649; Suffolk Co. v.
Hayden, 3 Wall. 315, 320; U.S. Frumentum Co. v. Lauhoff, supra. This will generally be the case if the trial
follows quickly after the issue ot the patent. But a
different situation is presented if years have gone by
before the evidence is offered. Experience is then available to correct uncertain prophecy. Here is a book of
wisdom that courts may not neglect. We find no rule of
law that sets a clasp upon its pages, and forbids us to
look within.
Ithaca Trust Co. v. United States, 279 U.S. 151, does
not commit us to a different holding. The problem there
before the court was one as to the appraisal of a life
estate for the purpose of the assessment of a tax. The
intention of the lawmakers was held to be that the computation of the tax should be made as of the death of the
testator on the basis of a law of averages. Cf. Matter of
Wagner v. Wilson & Co., 251 N.Y. 67, 71; 167 N.E. 174.
A different question would have been here with a different
result if we had been measuring the damages for a breach
of contract or a tort. To correct uncertain prophecies in
such circumstances is not to charge the offender with
elements of value non-existent at the time of his offensr.
It is to bring out and expose to light the elements of value
that were there from the beginning. Brightson v. Claflin
Co., 180 N.Y. 76, 83, 84; 72 N.E. 920; Wakeman v.
Wheeler & Wilson Mfg. Co., 101 N.Y. 205, 217; 4 N.E.
264; cf. City of New York v. Sage, 239 U.S. 57; Cincin-

SINCLAIR RFG. CO. v. JENKINS CO.
689

699

Opinion of the Court.

nati Siemens Lungren Gas Co. v. Western Siemens Lungren'Co., 152 U.S. 200; Henry v. North American Railway Construction Co., 158 Fed. 79, 80, 81; Williston, Contracts, Vol. III, p. 2394.
Value for exchange is not the only value known to
the law of damages. There are times-when heed must
be given to value for use, if reparation is to be adequate.
Barker v. Lewis Storage & TransportationCo., 78 Conn.
198; 61 Atl. 363; Green v. Boston & Lowell R. Co., 128
Mass. 221; Citizens Bank v. Fitchburg Fire Ins. Co.,
86 Vt. 267; 84 Atl. 970; McAnarney v. Newark Fire Ins.
Co., 247 N.Y. 176, 184, 185; 159 N.E. 902; Sedgwick,
supra, pp. 504-507. An imaginary bid by an iinaginary
buyer, acting upon the informatiofi available at the moment of the breach, is not the limit of recovery where the
subject of the bargain is an undeveloped patent. Information at such a time might be so scanty and imperfect
that the offer would be nominal. The promisee of the
patent has less than fair compensation if the criterion
of value is the price that he would have received if he
had disposed of it at once, irrespective of the value that
would have been uncovered if he had kept it as his own.
Formulas of measurement declared alio intuitu may be
misleading if wrested from their setting and applied to
new conditions. See, e.g., Standard Oil Co. v. So. Pac.
Co., 268 U.S. 146, 155. The market test failing, there
must be reference to the values inherent in the thing
itself, whethef for use or for exchange. Industrial General & Trust Co. v. Tod, supra. These will not be known
by first imagining a forced sale, and then accepting as a
measure its probable results. The law is not so tender
to sellers in default.
3. Section 724 of the Revised Statutes permitting the
use of a subpoena duces tecum for the production of
books and papers has not superseded the remedy of dis-

700

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 US.

covery in cases where inspection during the trial and in the
presence of the jury will produce delay or inconvenience.
Carpenterv. Winn, supra; Pressed Steel Car Co. v. Union
Pacific R. Co., supra.
The court did not exceed the bounds of a legitimate
discretion in holding that these embarrassments might
reasonably be expected to follow if discovery were refused.
The decree should be
Affirmed.

