OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

289 U.S.

deemed to accrue from property of someone other than
Douglas Smith. The case is plainly distinguishable from
Hoeper v. Tax Commission, 284 U.S. 206, on which respondents rely, for there the attempt was to tax income
arising from property always owned by one other than the
taxpayer, who had never had title to or control over either
the property or the income from it. The measure of control of corpus and income retained by the grantor was
sufficient to justify the attribution of the income of the
trust to him. The enactment does not violate the Fifth
Amendment.
A contrary decision would make evasion of the tax a
simple matter. There being no legally significant distinction between the trustee and a stranger to the trust
as joint-holder with the grantor of a power to revoke, if
the contention of the respondents were accepted it would
be easy to select a friend or relative as co-holder of such
a power and so place large amounts of principal and income accruing therefrom beyond the reach of taxation
upon the grantor while he retained to all intents and purposes control of both. Congress had power, in order to
make the system of income taxation complete and con-.
sistent and to prevent facile evasion of the law, to make
provision by § 219 (g) for taxation of trust income to the
grantor in the circumstances here disclosed. Compare
Taft v. Bowers, 278 U.S. 470, 482, 483; Tyler v. United
States, supra, at p. 505.
Judgment reversed.
UNITED STATES v. DUBILIER CONDENSER
CORP
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEAI
THIRD CIRCUIT

Nos. 316, 317, and 318.

FOR THE

Argued January 13, 16, 1933.-Decided
April 10, 1933

1. One who is employed to invent is bound by contractual obligation
to assign the patent for the invention to his employer,

P. 187.

U.S. v. DUBILIER CONDENSER CORP.
178

179

Argument for the United States.

2. Where the contract of employment does not contemplate invention,
but an invention is made by the employee during the hours of his
employment and with the aid of the employer's materials and appliances, the right of patent belongs to the employee, and the
employer's interest in the invention is limited to a non-exclusive
right to practice it-a "shop-right." P. 188.
3. These' principles are settled as. respects private employment and
they apply also as between the United States and its employees.
P. 189.
4. No servant of the United States has by statute been disqualified
from applying for and receiving a patent for his invention, save
officers and employees of the Patent Office duringthe poriod for
which they hold their appointments. P. 189.
5. Scientists employed by the United States in the Radio Section of
the Electric Division of the Bureau of Standards, while assigned to
research concerning use of radio in airplanes, made discoveries concerning tfe use of alternating current in broadcast receiving sets-a
subject not within their assignment and not being investigated by
the Section; and, having with the consent of their superior perfected their inventions in the Bureau laboratory, obtained patents.
Held, upon the facts, that there was no employment to invent and
no basis for implying a contract to assign to the United States, or
a trust in its favor, save as to shop-rights. P. 193.
6. The proposition that anyone who is employed by the United States
for scientific research should be forbidden to obtain a patent for
what he invents is at variance with the policy heretofore evidenced
by Congress. P. 199.
7. If public policy demands such a prohibition, Congress, and not the
courts, mus't declare it. Pp. 197, 208.
59 F. (2d) 387, affirmed.

287 U.S. 588, to review the affirmance of
decrees dismissing the bills in three suits brought by the
United States to compel the exclusive licensee under certain plitents to assign all its right, title and interest in
them to the United States, and for an accounting.
CERTIORARI,

Solicitor General Thacher, with whom Assistant Attorney General Rugg and Messrs. Alexander HoltzoJ,
Paul D. Miller, and H. Brian Holland were on the brief,
for the United States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for the United States.

289 U.S.

This Court has held that if one is expressly hired for
the purpose of making a specific invention, or is designated or directed to develop such invention, the patent
rights arising out of such invention become the property
of the employer. The ratio decidendi of this holding is
that in making the invention the employee is merely
doing what he was hired to do, having contracted in advance for the performance of work of an inventive character, and therefore the fruits of his work belong to the
employer.
The same result should follow if an employee, instead
of being hired or being assigned to make a specific invention, is hired for the purpose of doing inventive work in a
particular field. If in such event the employee makes an
invention within that field, he has only done that which
he was hired to do and accordingly the patent rights to
such invention are the property of the employer.
The employment of Lowell and Dunmore included the
duty to exercise their inventive faculties within the general field to which they were assigned. - It is not disputed
that they were in the actual performance of their employment while engaged in the research which led to the
inventions in question. Their, duties were not confined
to the solution of specially designated problems, but they
were expected to and did follow "leads" uncovered during the progress of their work. The inventions in question represented a natural and progressive development
of the work which they were pursuing under the direction of their superiors, and which they systematically
described in their official reports.
Essentially the purpose of industrial research is to apply to industry the discoveries of. science. When one is
employed for scientific research to meet the needs of a
rapidly advancing industrial art, such as radio, his employment necessarily includes the duty to employ his

U.S. 'v. DUBILIER CONDENSER CORP.
178

181

Argument for the United States.

talent in devising new and useful appliances for the improvement of the art. If, in this process, discovery and
application to useful purposes rise to the level of-invention, the invention is the fruit of the employment.
There is no basis for the holding that 'because "research" and "invention" are not synonymous, the research work of i bwell andkDunmore did not include the
duty to make inventions. 'The research work in which
they were engaged had for its express purpose the improvement of the radio art by invention.
In theefficient conduct of modern researich laboratories
it is necessary to permit scientists' to exercise initiative
and freedom in the solution of particular problems and in
following suggestions or leads arising out of a specific
task. Discoveries and inventions seldom can be anticipated and, hence, it is- often impossible to assign the
development of a particular invention as a task, to be
performed.
Research work regularly resulting in numerous inventions is continually being carried on in laboratories conducted by governmental agencies. It is against public
interest that private individuals shouhl-collect royalties
for the use of inventions developed at public cost.
The rule adopted, by the courts below, if allowed to
stand, would tend to demoralize the Bureau of Standards as a. center for' scientific, and industrial research.
The experience of private industry shows that invention is not discouraged where the employer retains property rights to the, inventions of employees engaged in
inventive work.
The Act of March 3, 1883, as amended by the Act of
April 30, 1928, does not express the entire governmental
policy with regard to patent rights on inventions of government employees. Its obvious purpose was to accord
the privilege of obtaining patents without charge to gov-

182

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

ernment employees who might make an invention under
such circumstances that the Government would have
neither title to the patent nor a license under it.
Mr. James H. Hughes, Jr., with whom Messrs. E.
Ennalls Berl and John B. Brady were on the brief, for
respondent.
MR. JUSTIcE

ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Three suits were brought in the District Court for Delaware against the respondent as exclusive licensee under
three separate patents issued to Francis W. Dunmore and
Percival D. Lowell. The bills recite that the inventions
were'made while the patentees were employed in the radio
laboratories of the Bureau of Standards, and are therefore,
in equity, the property of the United States. The prayers
are for a declaration that the respondent is a trustee for
the Government, and, as such, required to assign to the
United States all its right, title and interest in the patents;
for an accounting of all moneys received as licensee, and
for general relief. The District Court consolidated the
cases for trial, and after a hearing dismissed the bills.'
The Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit affirmed the
decree.2
The courts below concurred in findings which are not
challenged and, in summary, are:
The Bureau of Standards is a subdivision of the Department of Commerce.' Its functions consist- in the
custody of standards; the comparison of standards used
in. scientific investigations, engineering, manufacturing,
commerce, and educational institutions with those adopted
F. (2d) 306.
59 F. (2d) 381.
8
See Act of March 3,1901, 31 Stat. 1449, Act of February 14, 1903,
149

" 4,32 Stat. 826.

U.S. v. DUBILIER CONDENSER CORP.
178

183

Opinion of the Court.

or recognized by the Government; the construction of
standards, their multiples or subdivisions; the testing and
calibration of standard measuring apparatus; the solution
of problems which arise in connection with standards; and
the physical properties of materials. In 1915 the Bureau
was also charged by Congress with the duty of investiga
Iion and standardization of methods and instruments employed in radio communication, for which special appropriations were made.' In recent years it has been engaged
in research and testing work of various kinds for the benefit of private industries, other departments of the Government, and the general public.;
The Bureau is composed of divisions, each charged with
a specified field of activity, one of which is the electrical.
division. These are further subdivided in'to sections.
One section of the electrical division is the radio section.
In 1921 and 1922 the employees in the laboratory of this'
section numbered approximately twenty men doing technical work, and some draftsmen and mechanics. The
twenty were engaged in testing radio apparatus and methods and in radio research work. They were subdivided
into ten groups, each group having a, chief. The work of
each group was defined in outlines by the chief or alternate chief of the section.
Dunmore and Lowell were employed in the radio section and engaged in research and testing in the laboratory. In the outlines of laboratory work the subject of
"airplane radio" was assigned to the group of which
Dunmore was chief and Lowell a member. The subject
of " radio receiving sets" was assigned to a group of which
J. L. Preston was chief, but to which neither Lowell nor
Dunmnore belonged.
'Act of March 4, 1915, 38 Stat. 1044; Act of May 29, 1920, 4i
Stat. 684; Act of March 3, 1921, 41 Stat. 1303.
The fees charged cover merely the cost of the service rendered,
as provided in the Act of June 30, 1932, § 312, 47 Stat. 410.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

In May, 1921, the Air Corps of the Army and the Bureau of Standards entered into an arrangement whereby
the latter undertook the proseeution of forty-four research
projects for the benefit of the Air Corps. To pay the cost
of such work, the Corps transferred and allocated to the
Bureau the sum of $267,500. Projects Nos. -7 to 42, inclusive, relating to the use of radio in connection with
aircraft, were assigned to the radio section and $25,000
was allocated to pay the cost of the work. Project No.
38 was styled "visual indicator for radio signals," and
suggested the construction of a modification,of what was
known as an "Eckhart recorder." Project No. 42 was
styled ",airship bomb control and marine torpedo control." Both were problems of design merely.
In the summer of 1921 Dunmore, as chief of the group
to which "airplane radio" problems had been assigned,
without further instructions from his superiors, picked
out for himself one of these navy problems, that of operating a relay for remote control of bombs on airships and
torpedoes in the sea, "as one of particular interest and
having perhaps a rather easy solution, and worked on it."
In September he solved it.
In the midst of aircraft investigations and numerous
routine problems of the section, Dunmore was wrestling
in his own mind, impelled thereto solely by his own scientific curiosity, with the subject of substituting houselighting alternating current for direct battery current in
radio apparatus. He obtained a relay for operating a
telegraph instrument which was in no way related to the
remote control relay devised for aircraft use. The conception of the application of alternating current concerned
particularly broadcast reception. This idea was conceived by Dunmore August 3, 1921, and he reduced the
invention to practice December 16, 1921. Early in 1922
he advised his superior of his invention and spent addi-

U.S. v. DUBILIER CONDENSER CORP.
178

185

Opinion of the Court.

tional time in perfecting the details. February 27, 1922
he filed an application for a patent.
In the fall of 1921 both Dunmore and Lowell were considering the problem of applying alternating current to
broadcast receiving sets. This project was not involved
in or suggested by the problems with which the radio section was then dealing and was not assigned by any superior as a task to be solved by either of these employees.
It was independent of their work and voluntarily assumed.
While performing theirregular tasks they experimented
at the laboratory in devising apparatus for operating
a radio receiving set by alternating current with the hum
incident thereto eliminated. The invention was completed
on December 10, 1921. Before its completion no instructions were received from and no conversations relative
to the invention were held by these employees with the
head of the radio section, or with any superior.
They also conceived the idea of energizing a dynamic
type of loud speaker from an alternating current houselighting circuit, and reduced the invention to practice on
January 25, 1022. March 21, 1922, they filed an application for a "power amplifier." The conception embodied
in this patent was devised by the patentees without suggestion, instruction, or assignment from any superior.
Dunmore and Lowell were permitted by their chief
after the discoveries had been brought to his attentigI,
to pursue their work in the laboratory and to perfect thedevices embodying their inventions. No one advised
them prior to the filing of applications for patents that
they would be expected to assign the patents to the
United States or to grant the Government exclusive
rights thereunder.
The respondent concedes that the United States may
practice the inventions without payment of royalty, but
asserts that all others are excluded, during the life of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

patents, from using them without the respondent's consent. The petitioner insists that the circumstances require a declaration either that the Government has sole
and exclusive property in the inventions or that they
have been dedicated to the public so that anyone may use
them.
First. By Article I, § 8, clause 8 of the Constitution,
Congress is given power to promote the progress of science
and the useful arts by securing for limited times to inventors the exclusive rights to their respective discoveries.
R.S. 4886 as amended (U.S. Code, Title 35, § 31) is
the last of a' series of statutes which since 1793 have
implemented the constitutional provision.
Though often so characterized, a patent is not, accurately speaking, a monopoly, for it is not created by the
executive authority at the expense and to the prejudice
of all the community except the grantee of the patent.
Seymour v. Osborne, 11 Wall. 516, 533. The term monopoly connotes the giving of an exclusive privilege for
buying, selling, working or using a thing which the public freely enjoyed prior to the grant.6 Thus a monopoly,
takes something from the people. An inventor deprives
the public of nothing which it enjoyed before his discovery, but gives something of value to the community by
adding to the sum of human knowledge. United States
v. Bell Telephone Co., 167 U.S. 224, 239; Paper Bag
Patent Case, 210 U.S. 405, 424; Brooks v. Jenkins, 3 McLean 432, 437; Parker v. Haworth, 4" McLean 370, 372;
Allen v. Hunter, 6 McLean 303, 305-306; Attorney General v. Rumford Chemical Works, 2 Bann. & Ard. 298,
302. He may keep his invention secret and reap its
fruits indefinitely. In consideration of its disclosure and
the consequent benefit to the community, the patent is
granted. An exclusive enjoyment is guaranteed him for
'Webster's New International Dictionary: " Monopoly."

U.S. v. DUBILIER CONDENSER CORP.
178

187

Opinion of the Court.

seventeen years, but upon the expiration of that period,
the knowledge of the invention enures to the people, who
are thus enabled without restriction to practice it and
profit by its use. Kendall v. Winsor, 21 How. 322, 327;
United States v. Bell Telephone Co., supra, p. 239. To
this end the law requires such disclosure to be made in
the application for patent that others skilled in the art
may understand the invention and how to put it to use.7
A patent is property and title to it can pass only by
assignment. If not yet issued an agreement to assign
when issued, if valid as a contract, will be specifically
enforced. The respective rights and obligations of employer and employee, touching an invention conceived
by the latter, spring from the contract of employment.
One employed to make an invention, who succeeds, during his term of service, in accomplishing that task, is
bound to assign to his employer any patent obtained.
The reason is that he has only produced that which he
was employed to invent. His invention is the precise
subject of the contract of employment. A term of the
agreement necessarily is that what he is paid to produce
belongs to his paymaster. Standard Parts Co. v. Peck,
264 U.S. 52. On the other hand, if the employment be
general, albeit it cover a field of labor and effort in the
performance of which the employee conceived the invelltion for which he obtained a patent, the confract is not
so broadly construed as to require an assignment of the
patent. Hapgood v. Hewitt, 119 U.S. 226; Dalzell V.
Dueber Watch Case Mfg. Co. 149 U.S. 315. In the
latter case it was said [p. 320]:
"But a manufacturing corporation, which has employed a skilled workman, for a stated compensation, to
take charge of its works, and to devote his time and services to devising and making improvements in articles
TU.S.

Code, Tit. 35, § 33.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion, of the Court.

289 U.S.

there manufactured, is not entitled to a conveyance of
patents obtained for inventions made by him while so
employed, in the absence of express agreement to that
effect."
The reluctance of courts to imply or infer an agreement
by the employee to assign his patent is due to a recognition of the peculiar nature of the act of invention, which
consists neither in finding out the laws of nature, nor in
fruitful research as to the operation of natural laws, but
in discovering how those laws may be utilized or applied
for some beneficial purpose, by a process, a device or a
machine. It is the result of an inventive act, the birth of
an idea and its reduction to practice; the product of original thought; a concept demonstrated to be true by practical application or embodiment in tangible form. Clark
Thread Co. v. Willimantic Linen Co., 140 U.S. 481, 489;
Symington Co. v. National Castings Co., 250 U.S. 383,
386; Pyrene Mfg. Co. v. Boyce, 292 Fed. 480, 481.
Though the mental concept is embodied or realized in
,a mechanism or a physical or chemical aggregate, the embodiment is not the invention and is not the subject of a
patent. This distinction between the idea and its application in practice is the basis of the rule that employment
merely to design or to construct or to devise methods of
manufacture is not the same as employment to invent.,
Recognition of the nature of the act of inv ention also defines the limits of the so-called shop-right, which shortly
stated, is that where a servant, during his hours of employment, working with his master's materials and appliances, conceives and perfects an invention for which he
obtains a patent, he must. accord his master a non-exclusive right to practice the invention. McClurg v. Kingsland,,1 How. 202; Solomons v. United States, 137 U.S.
342; Lane & Bodley Co. v. Locke, 150 U.S. 193. This is an
application of 'equitable principles. Since the servant
uses his master's time, facilities and materials to attain a

U.S. v. DUBILIER CONDENSER CORP.
178

189

Opinion of the Court.

concrete result, the latter is in equity entitled to use that
which embodies his own property and to duplicate it as
often as he may find occasion to employ similar appliances
in his business. But the employer in such a case has no
equity to, demand a conveyance of the invention, which is
the original conception of the employee alone, in which
the employer had no part. This remains the property of
him who conceived it, together with the right conferred
by the patent, to exclude all others than the employer
from the accruing benefits. These principles are settled
as respects private employment.
Second. Does the character of the service call for different rules as to the relative rights of the United States and
its employees?
The title of a patentee is subject to no superior right of
the Government. 'The 'grant of letters patent is not, as
in England, a matter of grace or favor, so that conditions
rhay be annexed at the pleasure of the executive. To the
laws passed by the Congress, and to them alone, may we
look for guidance as to the extent and the limitations of
the respective rights of the inventor and the public. Attorney.General v. Rumford Chemical Works, supra, at pp.
303-4. And this court has held that the Constitution
evinces no public policy, which requires the holder of a
patent to cede the use or benefit of the invention to the
United States, even though the discovery concerns matters which can properly be used only by the Government;
as, for example, munition s of war. James v. Campbell,
104 U.S. 356, 358. Hollister v. Benedict Mfg. Co., 113
U.S. 59, 67.
No servant of the United States has by statute been disqualified from applying for and receiving a patent for his
invention, save officers and employees of the Patent Office
during the period for which they hold their appointments.8
'R.S. 480; U.S. Code, Tit. 35, § 4.

190

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

This being so, this court has applied the rules enforced
as between private employers and their servants tb the
relation between the Government and its officers and
employees.
United States v. Burns, 12 Wall. 246, was a. suit in the
Court of Claims by an army officer as assignee of a patent
obtained by another such officer for a military fent, to recover royalty under a contract made by the Secretary of
War for the use of the tents. The court said, in affirming
a judgment for the plaintiff [p. 252]:
"If an officer in the military service, not specially employed to make experiments with a view to suggest improvements, devises a new and valuable improvement in
arms, tents, or any other kind of war material, he is
entitled to the benefit of it, and to letters-patent for the
improvement from the United States, equally with any
other citizen not engaged in such service; and the government cannot, after the patent is issued, make use of the
improvement any more than a private individual, without
license of the inventor or making compensation to him."
In UnitedStates v. Palmer, 128 U.S. 262, Palmer, a lieutenant in the army, patented certain improvements in infantry accoutrements. An army board recommended
their use and the Secretary of War confirmed the recommendation. The United States manufactured, and purchased a large number of the articles. Palmer brought
suit in the Court of Claims for a sum alleged to be a fair
and reasonable royalty. From a judgment for the plaintiff the United States appealed. This court, in affirming,
said [p. 270]:
"It was at one time somewhat doubted whether the
government might not be entitled to the use and beriefit
of every patented invention, by analogy to the English
law which reserves this right to the crown. But that

U.S. v. DUBILIER CONDENSER CORP.
178

191

Opinion of the Court.

notion no longer exists. It was ignored in the case of
Burns."
These principles were recognized in later cases involving the relative rights of the Government and its employees in instances where the subject-matter of the
patent was useful to the public generally. While these
did not involve a claim to an assignment of the patent,
the court reiterated the views earlier announced.
In Solomons v. United States, 137 U.S. 342, 346, it was
said:
"The government has no more power to appropriate a
man's property invested in a patent than it has to take
his property invested in real estate; nor does the mere
fact that an inventor is at the time of his invention in the
employ of -the government transfer to it any title to, or
interest in it. An employ6, performing all the duties assigned to him in his department of service, may exercise
his inventive faculties in any direction he chooses, with
the assurance that whatever iniention he may thus conceive and perfect is his individual property. There is
no difference between the government and any other employer in this respect."
And in Gill v. United States, 160 U.S. 426, 435:
"There is no doubt whatever of the proposition laid
down in Solomons case, that the mere fact that a person
is in the employ of the government does not preclude him
from making improvements in the machines with which
he is connected, and obtaining patents therefor, as his
individual property, and that in such case the government would have no more right to seize upon and appropriate such property, than any other proprietor would
have ..

The distinction between an employment to make an
invention and a general employment in the course of

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
. Opinion of the Court.

289 US.

which the servant conceives an invention has been recognized by the executive department of the Government.
A lieutenant in the navy patented an anchor while he was
on duty in the Bureau of Equipment and Recruiting,
which was charged with the duty of furnishing anchors
for the navy; he was not while attached to the bureau
specially employed to make experiments with a view to
suggesting improvements to anchors or assigned, the duty
of making or improving. The Attorney General advised
that as the invention did not relate to a matter as to which
the lieutenant was specially directed to experirent with
a view to suggesting improvements, he was entitled to
compensation from the Government for the use of his
invention in addition to his salary or pay as a navy
officer.'
A similar ruling was made with respect to an ensign
who obtained a patent for improvements in "B.L.R. ordnance" and who offered to spll the improvements,, or the
right to use them, to the Government. It was held that
the navy might properly make a contract with him to this
end."0
The United States is entitl~d, in the same way and to
the same extent as a private employer, to shop-rights,
that is, the free and non-exclusive use of-'a patent which
results from effort of its employee in his working hours
and with material belonging to the Government. Solomons v. United States, supra, pp.. 346-7; McAleer v.
United States, 150 U.S. 424;- Gilt v. United States, supra.
The statutes, decisions and administrative practice
negate the existence of a duty binding one in the service
of the Government different from the obligation of one in
private employment.
19 Opinions Attorney-General, 407.
1020 Opinions Attorney-Gecral, 329

And compare Report Judge

Advocate General of the Navy, 1901, p. 6; Digest, Opinions Judge
Advocate General of the Army, 1912-1930, p. 237; Opinions, Judge
Advocate General of the Army, 1918, Vol. 2, pp. 529, 988, 1066.

U.S. v. DUBILIER CONDENSER CORP.
178

193

Opinion of the Court.

Third. When the United States filed its bills it recognized the law as heretofore declared; realized that it must
like any other employer, if it desired an assignment of the
respondent's rights, prove a c9ntractual obligation on the
part of Lowell and Dunmore to assign the patents to the
Government. The averments clearly disclose this. The
bill in No. 316 is typical. After reciting that the employees were laboratory apprentice and associate physicist,
and laboratory assistant and associate physicist, respectively, and that one of their duties-was "to carry on investigation research and experimentation in such problems relating to radio and wireless as might be assigned to
them by their superiors," it is charged "in the course of
his employment as aforesaid, there was assigned to said
Lowell by his superiors in said radio section, for investigation and research, the problem of developing a radio
receiving set capable of operation by alternating current .
Thus the Government understood that respondent
could be deprived of rights under the patents only by
proof that Dunmoie and Lowell'were employed to devise the inventions. The findings of the courts below
show how far the proofs fell short of sustaining these
averments.
The Government is consequently driven to the contention that though the employees were not specifically
assigned the task of making the inventions (as in Standard PartsCo. v. Peck, supra), still, as the discoveries were
"within the general field of their research and inventive
work," the United States is entitled to an assignment of
the patents. The courts below expressly found that Dunmore and Lowell did not agree to exercise their inventive
faculties in their work, and that invention was not within
its scope. In this connection it is to be remembered that
the written evidence of their employment does not mention research, much less invention; that never was there
1545033-13

194

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

a. word said to either of them, prior to their discoveries,
concerning invention or patents or their duties or obligations respecting these matters; that as shown by the
records of the patent office, employees of the Bureau of
Standards and other departments had, while so employed,
received numerous patents and enjoyed the exclusive
rights obtained as against all private persons without let
or hindrance from the Government. 1' In no proper
"No exhaustive examination of the. official records has been attempted. It is sufficient, however, for present purposes, to call
attention to the following instances.
Dr. Frederick A. Koister was employed in the radio section, Bureau
of Standards, from December, 1912, until about March 1, 1921. He
applied for the following patents: No. 1,609,366, for radio apparatus,
application dated November 26, 1920. No. 1,447,165, for radio
method and apparatus, application dated January 30, 1919. No.
1,311,654, for radio method and apparatus, application dated March
25, 1916. No. 1,394,560, for apparatus for transmitting radiant energy,
application dated November 24, 1916. The Patent Office records
show assignments of .these patents to Federal Telegraph Company,
San Francisco, Cal., of which Dr. Kolster is now president. He testified that these are all subject to a non-exclusive license in the United
States to use and practice the same.
Burten McCollum was an employee of the Bureau of Standards between 1911 and 1924. On the dates mentioned he filed the following
applications for patents, which were issued to him. No. 1,035,373,
alternating current induction motor, March 11, 1912. No. 1,156,364,
induction motor, February 25, 1915. No. 1,226,091, alternating current induction motor, August 2, 1915. No. 1,724,495, method and
apparatus for determining the slope of subsurface rock boundaries,
October 24, 1923. No. 1,724,720, method and apparatus for studying subsurface contours, October 12 ,1923. The last two inventions
were assigned to McCollum Geological Explorations, Inc., a Delaware corporation.
Herbert B. Brooks, while an employee of the Bureau between 1912
and 1930, filed, November 1, 1919, an application on which patent
No. 1,357,197, for an electric transformer, was issued.
William W. Coblentz, an employee of the Bureau of Standards
from 1913, and still such at the date of the trial, on the dates mentioned, filed applications on which patents issued as follows: No.

U.S. v. DUBILIER CONDENSER CORP.
178

195

Opinion of the Court.

sense may it be said that the contract of employment contemplated invention; everything that Dunmore and Lowell knew negatived the theory that they were employed
to invent; they knew, on the contrary, that the past and
'then present practice was that the employees of the Bureau were allowed t9 take patents on their inventions and
have the benefits thereby conferred save as to use by the
1,418,362, for electrical resistance, September 22, 1920. No. 1,458,165,
system of electrical control, September 22, 1920. No. 1,450,061, optical
method for producing pulsating electric current, August 6, 1920. No.
1,563,557, optical means for rectifying alternating currents, September
18, 1923. The Patent Office records show that all of these stand in
the name of Coblentz, but are subject to a license to the United
'States of America.
August Hund, who was an employee of the Bureau from 1922 to
1927, on the dates mentioned filed applications on which letters patent
issued: No. 1,649,828, method of preparing Piezo-electric plates, September 30, 1925. No. 1,688,713, Piezo-electfic-crystal oscillator system, May 10, 1927. No. 1,688,714, Piezo-electric-crystal apparatus,
May 12, 1927. -No. 1,648,689, condenser transmitter, April 10, 1926.
All of these patents are shown of record to have been assigned to
Wired Radio, Inc., a corporation.
Paul R. Heyl and Lyman J. Briggs, while employees of the Bureau,
filed an application January 11, 1922, for patent No. 1,660,751, on
inductor compass, and assigned the same to the Aeronautical Instrument Company of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
C. W. Burrows-was an employee of the Bureau of Standards between 1912 and 1919. While such employee he filed applications on
the dates mentioned for patents, which Were issued: No. 1,322,405,
October 4, 1917, method and apparatus for testing magnetizable
objects by magnetic leakage; assigned to Magnetic Analysis Corporation, Long Island City, N.Y. No. 1,329,578, relay, March 13, 1918;
exclusive license issued to make, use and sell for the field of railway
signaling and train control, to Union Switch & Signal Company,
Swissvale, Pa. No. 1,459,970, method of and apparatus for testing
magnetizable objects, July 25, 1917; assigned to Magnetic Analysis
Corporation, Long Island City, N.Y.
John A. Willoughby, an employee of the Bureau of Standards between 1918 and 1922, while so employed, on June 26, 1919, applied
for and was granted a patent, No. 1,555,345, for a loop antenna.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

United States. The circumstances preclude the implication of any agreement to assign their inventions or
patents.
The record affords even less basis for inferring a contract
on the part of the inventors to refrain from patenting
their discoveries than for finding an agreement to assign
them.
The bills aver that the inventions and patents are held
in trust for the United States, and that the court should
so declare. It is claimed that as the work of the Bureau,
including all that Dunmore and Lowell did, was in the
public interest, these public servants had dedicated the
offspring of their brains to the public, and so held their
patents in'trust for the common weal, represented here
in a corporate capacity by the United States. The patentees, we are told, should surrender the patents for cancellation, and the respondent must also give up its rights
under the patents.
The trust cannot be express. Every fact in the case
negatives the existence of one. Nor can it arise ex maleficio. The employees' conduct was not fraudulent in any
respect. They promptly disclosed their inventions. Their
superiors encouraged them to proceed in perfecting and
applying the discoveries. Their note books and reports
disclosed the work they were doing, and there is not a
syllable to suggest their use of time or material was
clandestine or improper. No word was spoken regarding
any claim of title by the Government until after applications for patents were filed. And, as we have seen, no such
trust has been spelled out of the relation of master and
servant, even in the cases where the employee has perfected his invention by the use of his employer's time and
materials. The cases recognizing the doctrine of shop
rights may be said to fix a trust upon the employee in
favor of his master as respects the use of the invention

U.S. -v.DUBILIER CONDENSER CORP.
178

197

Opinion of the Court.

by the latter, but they do not affect the title to the patent
and the exclusive rights conferred by it against the public.
The Government's position in reality is, and must be,
that a public policy, to be declared by a court, forbids one
employed by the United States, for scientific research, to
obtain a patent for what he invents, though neither the
Constitution nor any statute so declares.
Where shall the courts set the limits of the doctrine?
For, confessedly, it must belimited. The.field of research
is as broad as that of science itself. If the petitioner is
entitled to. a cancellation of the patents in this* case,
would it be so entitled if the employees had done their
work at home, in their own time and with their own
appliances and materials? What is to be said of an invention evolved as the result of the solution of a problem in a
realm apart from that to which the employee is assigned
by his official superiors? We have seen that the Bureau
has numerous divisions. It is entirely possible that an
employee in one division may make an invention falling
within the work of some other division. Indeed this
case presents that exact situation, for the inventions in
question had to do with radio reception, a matter assigned
to a group of which Dunmore and Lowell were not members. Did the mere fact of their employment by the
Bureau require these employees to cede to the public
every device they might conceive?
Is the doctrine to be applied only where the employment is in a bureau devoted to scientific investigation pro
bono publico? Unless it 'is to be so circamscribed, the
statements of this court in United States v. Burns, supra,
Solomons v. United States, supra, and Gill v. United
States, supra, must be held for naught.
Again, what are to be defined as bureaus devoted
entirely to scientific research? It is common knowledge
that many in the Department of Agriculture conduct re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

searches and investigations; that'divisions of the War
and Navy Departments do the like; and doubtless there
are many other bureaus and sections in various departments of government where employees are set the task
of solving problems all of which involve mole or less of
science. Shall the field of the scientist be distinguished
from the art of a skilled mechanic? Is it conceivable
that one working on a formula for a drug or an antiseptic
in the Department of Agriculture stands in a different
class from a machinist in an arsenal? Is the distinction
to be that where the government department is, so to
speak, a business department operating a business activity
of the government, the employee has the same rights as
one in private employment, whereas if his work be for. a
bureau interested more particularly in what may be
termed Scientific research he is upon notice that whatever he invents 'in the field of activity of the bureau,
broadly defined, belongs to the public and is unpatentable? Illustrations of the difficulties which would attend
an attempt to define the policy for which the Government
contends might be multiplied indefinitely.
The courts ought not to declare any such policy; its
formulation belongs solely to the Congress. Will permission to an employee to enjoy patent rights as against all
others than the Government tend to the improvement of
the public service by attracting a higher class of employees? Is there in fact greater benefit to -the people
in a dedication to the public of inventions conceived by
officers of government, than in their exploitation under
patents by private industry? Should certain classes of invention be treated in one way and other classes differently? These are not legal questions, which courts are
competent to answer. They are practical questions, and
the decision as to what will accomplish the greatest good
for the inventor, the Government and the public rests

U.S. v. DUBILIER CONDENSER CORP.
178

199

Opinion of the Court.

with the Congress. We should not read into the patent
laws limitatiois and conditions which the legislature has
not expressed.
Fourth. Moreover, we are of opinion Congress has approved a policy at variance with the petitioner's contentions. This is demonstrated by examination of two statutes, with their legislative history, and the hearings and
debates respecting proposed legislation which failed of
passage.
Since 1883 there has been in force all act 12 which
provides:
"The Secretary of the Interior [now the Secretary of
Commerce, Act of February 14, 1903, c. 552,'§ 12, 32
Stat. 830] and the Commissioner of Patents are authorized to grant any officer of the government, except officers
and employees of the Patent Office, a patent for any invention of the classes mentioned in section forty eight
hundred and eighty six of the Revised Statutes, when
such invention is used or to be used in the public service,
without the payment of any fee: Provided, That the applicant in his application shall state that the invention
described therein, if patented, may be used by the government or Any of its officers or employees in the prosecution of work for the government, or by any other person
in the United States, without the payment to him of
any royalty tbereon, -which stipulati?n shall be included
'in the patent."
This 'law. was evidently intended to encourage government employees to obtain pitents, by relieving them of
the payment of the usual fees. The condition upon
which the privilege was accorded is stated as the grant
of free use by the government, "its officers or employees
in the prosecution of work for the government, or by any
12Act of March 3, 1883, c. 143, 22 Stat. 625.

200

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

other person in the United States." For some time the
effect of the italicized phrase was a matter of doubt.
In 1910 the Judge Advocate General of the Army rendered an opinion to the effect that one taking a patent
pursuant to the act threw his invention " open to public
and private use in the United States." 13 It was later realized that this view made such a patent a contradiction in
terms, foF it secured no exclusive right to anyone. In
.1918 the Judge Advocate General gave a well-'reasoned
opinion ", holding that if the stitute were construed to
involve a dedication to the public, the so-called patent
would at most amount to a publication or prior reference.
He concluded that the intent of the act was that the free
use of the invention extended only to the Government or
those doing work for it. A* similar construction was
adopted in an opinion of the Attorney General. 5 Several federal courts referred to the statute and in dicta
indicated disagreement with the views expressed in these
later opinions.1"
The departments of government were anxious to have
the situation cleared, and repeatedly requested that the
act be amended. Pursuant to the recommendations of
the War Department an amendment was enacted April
30, 1928."7 The proviso was changed to read:
"Provided, That the applicant in his application shall
state that the invention described therein, if patented,
18

4

See Squier v. American T. & T. Co., 21 F. (2d) 747, 748.

' November 30, 1918; Opinions of Judge Advocate General, 1918,
Vol. 2, p. 1029.
32 Opinions Attorney General, 145.
- See Squier v. American Tel. & Tel. Co., 7 F. (2d) 831, 21 F. (2d)
747; Hazeltine Corporation v. Electric Service Engineering Corp.,
18 F. (2d) 662; Hazeltine Corporation v. A. W. Grebe & Co., 21 F.
(2d) 643; Selden Co. v. National Aniline & Chemical Co., 48 F. (2d)
270.
1 45 Stat. 467, 468.

U.S.'v. DUBILIER CONDENSER CORP.
178

201

Opinion of the Court.

may be manufactured or used by or for the Government
for governmental purposes without the payment to him
of any royalty thereon, which stipulation shall, be included
in the patent."
The legislative history of the amendment clearly discloses the purpose to save to the employee his right to
exclude the public."' In the report of the Senate Committee on Patents submitted with the amendment, the
object of the bill was said to be the protection of the interests of the Government, primarily by securing patents
on inventions made by officers and employees, presently
useful in the interest of the national defense or those
which may prove useful in the interest of national defense
in the future; and secondarily, to encourage the patenting
of inventions by officers and employees of the Government with the view to future protection of the Government against suits for infringement of patents. The
committee stated that the bill had the approval of the
Commissioner of Patents and was introduced at the request of the Secretary of War. Appended to the report
is a copy of a letter of the Secretary of War addressed to
the committees of both Houses stating that the language
of the legislation then-existing was susceptible of two interpretations contrary to each other. The letter quoted
the proviso of the section as it then stood, and continued:
"It is clear that a literal construction of this proviso
would work a dedication to the public of every patent
taken out under the act. If the proviso must be construed literally we would have a situation wherein all the
patents taken out under the act would be nullified by the
Report No. 871, 70th Cong., 1st Sess., House of Representatives,
to accompany H.R. 6103; Report No. 765, 70th Cong., 1st Sess..
is

Senate, to accompany H.R. 6103; Cong. Rec., House of Representatives, March 19, 1928, 70th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 5013; Cong. Rec.,
Senate, April 24, 1928, 70th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 7066.

202

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

very terms of the act under which they were granted, for
the reason that a patent which does not carry with it the
limited monopoly referred to in the Constitution is in
reality not a patent at all. The .only value that a patent
has is the right that it extends to the patentee to exclude
all 'others from making, using, or selling the invention
for a certain period of years. A patent that is dedicated
to the public is virtually the same as a patent that has
expired:"
After referring to the interpretation of the Judge Advocate General and the Attorney General and mentioning that no satisfactory adjudication of the question had
been afforded by the courts, the letter went on to state:
"Because of the ambiguity referred to and the unsettled condition that has arisen therefrom, it has become
the policy 'bf the War Department to advise all its personnel Who desire to file applications for letters patent,
to do so under the general law and pay the required
patent-office fee in each case."
And added:
"If the proposed legislation is enacted into law, Government officers and employees may unhesitatingly avail
themselves of the benefits of the act with full assurance
that in so doing their patent is not dedicated to the public
by operation of law. The War Department has been
favoring legislation along the lines of the proposed bill
for the past five or six years."
When the bill .came up for passage in the House a
colloquy occurred which clearly disclosed the purpose of
the amendment."9 The intent was that a government
5013:
' Cong. Rec., 70th Cong,, 1st Sess., Vol. 69, Part 5, 15.
"Mr. LaGuardia. Mr. Speaker, reserving the right to object, is not
the provisb too broad? Suppose an employee of the Government invents some improvement which is vely valuable, is he compelled to
give the Government free use of it?
"Mr, Vestal [who reported the bill for the Committee and was
in charge of it]. If he is employed by the Government and the in-

U.S. v. DUBILIER CONDENSER CORP.
178

203

Opinion of the Court.

employee who in the course of his employment conceives
an invention should afford the Government free use
thereof, but should be protected in his right to exclude
all others.- If Dunmore and Lowell, who tendered the
Government a non-exclusive license without royalty, and
always understood that the Government might use their
inventions freely, had proceeded under the act of 1883,
they would have retained their rights as against all but
the United States. This is clear from the executive interpretation of the act. But for greater security they pursued the very course then advised by the law officers of
the Government. It would be surprising if they thus
lost all rights as patentees; especially so, since Congress
has now confirmed the soundness of the views held by
the law officers of the Government.
vention is made while working in his capacity as an agent of the
Government. If the head of the bureau certifies this invention will
be used by the Government, then the Government, of course gets it
without the payment of any royalty.
"Mr. LaGuardia. The same as a factory rule?
"Mr. Vestal. Yes; but the man who takes out the patent has his
commercial rights outside.
"Mr. LaGuardia. Outside of the Government?
"Mr. Vestal. Yes.
"Mr. LaGuardia. But the custom is, and without this bill, the
Government has the right to the use of the improvement without payment if it is invented in. Government time and in Government work.
"Mr. Vestal. That is correct; and then on top of that, may I say
that a number of instances, have occurred where an employee of the
Government, instead of taking out a patent had some one else take
out the patent and the Government has been involved in a number
of suits. There is now $600,000,000 worth of such claims in the
Court of Claims."
It will be noted from the last statement of the gentleman in charge
of the bill that Congress was concerned with questions of policy in the
adoption of the amendment. These, as stated above, are questions
of business policy and business judgment-what is to the best advantage of the Government and the public. They are not questions as to
which the courts ought to invade the province of the Congress.

204

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

Until the year 1910 the Court of Claims was without
jurisdiction to award compensation to the owner of a
patent for unauthorized use by the United States or its
agents. Its power extended only to the trial of claims
based upon an express or implied contract for such use."0
In that year Congress enlarged the jurisdiction to embrace the former class of claims." 'In giving consent to
be sued, the restriction was imposed that it should not
extend to owners of patents obtained by employees of the
Government while in the service. From this it is inferred that Congress recognized no right in such patentees
to exclude the public from practicing the invention. But
'See Belknap v. Schild, 161 U.S. 10, 16; Eager v. United States,
35 Ct. Cls. 556.
'Act of June 25, 1910, 36 Stat. 851: (See Crozier v. Krupp, 224
U.S. 290.)
"That whenever an invention described in and covered by a
patent of the United States shall hereafter be used by the United
States without license of the owner thereof or lawful right to use the
same, such owner may recover reasonable compensation for such use
by suit in the Court of Claims: Provided, however, That said Court of
Claims shall not entertain a suit or reward [sic] compensation under
the provisions of this Act where the claim for compensation is based
on the use by the United States of any article heretofore owned, leased,
used by, or in the possession of the United States: Provided further',
That in any such suit the United States may avail itself of any and
all defenses, general or special, which might be pleaded by a defendant in an action for infringement, as set forth in Title Sixty of the
Revised Statutes, or otherwise: And provided further, That the benefits of this Act shall not inure to any patentee, who, when he makes
such claim is in the employment or service of the Government of the
United States; or the assignee of any such patentee; nor shall this
Act apply to any device discovered or invented by such employee
during the time of his employment or service."
The Act was amended in respects immaterial to the present question, July 1, 1918, 40 Stat. 705. See William Cramp & Sons Co. v.
Curtis Turbine Co., 246 U.S. 28; Richmond Screw Anchor Co. v.
United States, 275 U.S. 331, 343. As amended it appears in U.S.C.,
Tit. 35, § 68.

U.S. v. DUBILIER CONDENSER CORP.
178

205

Opinion of the Court.

an examination of the legislative record completely refutes the contention.
The House Committee in reporting the bill, after referring to the law as laid down in the Solomons case, said:
"The United States in such a case has an implied license
to use the patent without compensation, for the reason
that the inventor used the time or the money or the material of the United States in perfecting his invention.
The use by the United States of such a patented invention
without any authority from the owner thereof is a lawful
use under existing law, and we have inserted the words
' or lawful right to use the same' in order to make it plain
that we do not intend to make any change in existing
law in this respect, and do not intend to give the owner of
such a patent any claim against the United States for its
use." 22 From this it is clear that Congress had no purpose to declare a policy at variance with the decisions of
this court.
The executive departments have advocated legislation
regulating the taking of patents by government employees
and the administration by government agencies of the
patents so obtained. In 1919 and 1920 a bill sponsored
by the Interior Department was introduced. It provided
for the voluntary assignment or license by any government employee, to the Federal Trade Commission, of a
patent applied for by him, and the licensing of manufacturers by the Commission, the license fees to be paid into
the Treasury and such part of them as the President
might deem equitable to be turned over to the patentee."3
In the hearings and reports upon this measure stress was
laid not only upon the fact that action by an employee
thereunder wbuld be vbluirtary, but that the inventor
would be protected at least to some extent in his private
House Report 1288, 61st Cong., 2d Sess.
5265, 65th Cong. 3d Sess.; S. 3223, 66th Cong., 2d Sess.;

2'S.

H.R. 9932, 66th Cong., 2d Sess.; H.R. 11984, 66th Cong., 3d Sess.

206

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

right of exclusion. It was recognized that the Government could not compel an assignment, was incapable of
taking such assignment or administering the patent, and
that it had shop-rights in a patpnt perfected by the use of
government material and in government working time.
Nothing contained 'n the bill itself or in the hearings or
reports indicates any intent to change the existing and
well understood rights of government employees who obtain patents for their inventions made while in the service.
The measure failed of passage.
. In 1923 the President sent to the Congress the report
of an interdepaitmental patents-board created by executive order to study the question of patents within the
government service and to recommend regulations establishing a policy to be followed in respect. thereof. The
report adverted to the fact that in the absence of'a contract providing otherwise a patent taken out by a government employee, and any invention developed by on&
in the public service, is the sole property of the inventor.
The committee recommended strongly against public
dedication of such an invention, saying that this in effect
voids a patent, and, if this were not so, "there is little
incentive for anyone to take up a patent and spend time,
effort, and money . . . on its commercial development
without at least some measure of protection against
others free to take the patent as developed by him and
compete in its use. In such a case one of the chief objects of the patent law would be defeated." 24 In full
accord is the statement on behalf of the Department of
the Interior in a memorandum furnished with respect to
the bill introduced in 1919.25
With respect to a policy of permitting the patentee to
take a patent and control it in his own interest (subject,
" Sen. Doc. No. 83; 68th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 3.
' Hearings, Senate Patent Committee, 66th Cong., 2d Sess., January 23, 1920, p. 11.

U.S. v. DUBILIER CONDENSER CORP.
178

207

Opinion of the Court.

of course, to the Government's right of use, if any) the
committee said:
"...
it must not be lost sight of that in general
it is the constitutional right of every patentee to exploit
his patent as he may desire, however -expedient it may
appear to endeavor to modify this right in the interest
of the public when the patentee is in the Government
service." "
Concerning a requirement that all patents obtained by
government employees be assigned to the United States
or its agent, the committee said:
it would, on the one hand, render difficult securing the best sort of technical men for the service and,
on the other, would influence technical workers to resign
in order to exploit inventions which they might evolve
and suppress while still in the service. There has always.
been more or less of a tendency for able men in the
service to do this, particularly in view of the comparative meagerness of Government salaries; thus the Government has suffered loss among its most capable class
of workers." 2
The committee recommended legislation to create an
Interdepartmental Patents Board; and further that the
law make it part of the express terms of employment,
having the effect of a contract, that any patent application made or patent granted for an invention discovered
or developed during the period of government service and
incident to the line of official duties, which in the judgment of the board should, in the interest of the national
defense, or otherwise in the public interest, be controlled
by the Government, should upon demand by the board
be assigned by the employee to an agent of the Government. The recommended measures were not adopted.
'" Sen. Doc. No. 83, 68th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 3.
'Ibid., p. 4.

208

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

Fifth. Congress has refrained from imposing upon
government -servants a contract obligation' of the sort
above described. At least one department has attempted
to do so .by regulation. 8 Since the record in this case
discloses that the Bureau of Standards had no such regulation, it is unnecessary to consider whether: the various
departments have power to impose such a contract upon
employees without authorization by act of Congress.
The question is more difficult under our form of government than under that of Great Britain, where such departmental regulations seem to settle the matter.29
All of this legislative history. emphasizes what we have
stated-that the 'courts are incompetent to answer the
difficult question whether the patentee is to be allowed
his exclusive right or compelled to dedicate his invention
to the public. It is suggested that the election rests with
the auth9ritative Officers of the Government. Under
what power, express or implied, may such officers, by ad- :
ministrative fiat, determine the nature and extent of
.rights exercised under a charter granted a patentee pursuant to constitutional and legislative provisions? Apart
from the fact that express authority is nowhere to befound, the question arises, who are the authoritative officers whose determination 'shall bind the United States
and the patentee? The Government's position comes to
this-that the courts may not rexamine the exercise of
an authority by some officer, not named, purporting to
deprive the patentee of the rights conferred upon him
by law. Nothing would be settled by such a holding,
except that the determination of the reciprocal rights and
obligations of the Government and its employee as re'See Annual Report, Department of Agriculture, for 1907, p. 775..
See Selden Co. v. National Aniline & Chemical Co., 48 F. (2d)
270, 273.
"Queen's Regulations (Addenda 1895, 1st February); Ch.. 1,
Instructions for Officers in General, pp. 15-16.

U.S. v. DUBILIER CONDENSER CORP.
178

STONE,

209

J., dissenting.

spects inventions are to be adjudicatead; " without review,
by an unspecified department hea~l or bureau chief.
Hitherto both the executive and the legislative branches
of the Government have concurred in what we consider
the correct view,-that any suc declaration of policy
must come from Congress and that no power to declare
it is vested in administrative officers.
Affirmed.
The decrees are
MR.JUSTICE STONE,

dissenting.

I think the decrees should be reversed.
The Court's conclusion that the employment of Dunmore and Lowell did not contemplate that they should
exercise inventive faculties in their service to the government, and that both courts below so found, seems to
render superfluous much that is said inthe opinion. For
it has not been contended, and I certainly do not contend,
that if such wefe the fact there would be any foundation
for the claim asserted'by the government. But I think
the record does not support the Court's conclusion of
fact. I am also unable to agree with the reasoning of the
opinion, although on my view of the facts it would lead
to the reversal of the decree below, which I favor.
When originally organized' as a Subdivision of the Department of Commerce, the; functions of the Bureau of
Standards consisted principally of the custody, comparison, construction, testing and calibration of standards and
the solution of problems arising in connection with standards. But in the course of its investigation of standards
of quality and performance it has gradually expanded into
a laboratory for research of the broadest character in
various branches of science and industry and particularly
'Act of March 3,. 1901, 31 Stat. 1449; Act of February 14, 1903,

§ 4, 32 Stat. 825, 826. For an account .of the origin and development of the Bureau and its predecessor, see Weber, The Bureau of
Standards, 1-75.
15450°

33-14

210

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
STONE,

J., dissenting.

289 U.S.

in the field of engineering.2 Work of this nature is carried on for other government departments,8 the general
public ' and private industries.' It is almost entirely
supported by public funds,' and is maintained in the pub'Much of the expansion of the Bureau's activities in this direction
took place during the war. See Annual Report of the Director,
Bureau of Standards, for 1919, p. 25; War Work of the Bureau of
Standards (1921), Misc. Publications of the Bureau 'of Standards No.
46. The scope of the Bureau's scientific work is revealed by the annual
reports of the Director. See also the bibliography of Bureau publications for the years 1901-1925, Circular of the Bureau of Standards
No. 24 (1925).
"The Act of May 29, 1920, 41 Stat. 631, 683, 684, permitted other
departments to transfer funds to' the Bureau of Standards for such
purposes, though even before, that time it was one of the major
functions of the Bureauto be of assistance to other branches of the
service. See e.g. Annual Reports of the Director for 1915, 1916,
1917, p. 16; Annual Report for 1918, p. 18; compare Annual Report
for 1921, p. 25; for 1922, p. 10.
'The consuming public is directly benefited not only by the
Bureau's work in improving the standards of quality and perform.ance of industry, but also by the assistance Which it lends to governmental bodies, state and city. See Annual Reports of the Director
for 1915, 1916, 1917, p. 14; Annual Report for 1918, p. 16; National
Bureau of Standards, Its Functions and Activity, Circular of the
Bureau of Standards, No. 1 (1925), pp. 28, 33.
'Co6peration with private industry has been the major method
relied upon to make the accomplishments of the Bureau effective.
See Annual Report for 1922, p. 7; Annual Report for 1923, p. 3. A
system of research associates permits industrial groups to maintain
men at the Bureau for research of mutual concern. The plan has
facilitated co~peration. See Annual Report for 1923, p. 4; Annual
Report for 1924, p. 35; Annual Report for 1925, p. 38; Annual Re.ports for 1926, 1928, 1929, 1931, 1932, p. 1; Research Associates at
the Bureau of Standards, Bureau Circular No. 296 (1926). For a
list of co~perating organizations as of December 1, 1926, see Misc.
Publications No. 96 (1927),
No fees have been charged except to cover the cost of testing, but
the Act of June 30, 1932, c. 314, § 312, 47 Stat. 410, directs that "for
all comparisons, calibrations, tests or ,investigations, performed" by
the Bureau except those performed for the Government of the United

U.S. v. DUBILIER CONDENSER CORP.
178

STONE,

211

J., dissenting.

lic interest. In 1915, as the importance of radio to the
government and to the public increased, Congress appropriated funds' to the Bureau "for investigation and
standardization of methods and instruments employed in
radio communication." Similar annual appropriations
have been made since and public funds were allotted by
Acts of July 1, 1916, c. 209, 39 Stat. 262, 324 and October
6, 1917, c. 79,.40 Stat. 345, 375, for the construction of a
fireproof .laboratory building "to provide additional space
to be used for research and testing in radio communication," as well as "space and facilities for coSperative research and experimental work in radio communication"
by other departments of the government. Thus, the conduct of research and scientific investigation in the field of
radio has been a duty imposed by law upon the Bureau of
Standards since 1915.
Radio research has been conducted in the Radio Section of the Electric Division of the Bureau. In 1021 and
1922, when Dunmore and Lowell made the inventions' in
controversy, they were employed in this section as members of the scientific staff. They were not, of course,
engaged to invent, in the sense in which a carpenter is
employed to build a chest, but they were employed to
conduct scientific investigations in a laboratory devoted
principally to applied rather than pure science with full
knowledge and expectation of all concerned that their
investigations might normally lead, as they did, to invention. The Bureau was as much devoted to the advancement of the radio art by invention as by discovery which
falls short of it. Hence, invention in the field of radio
was a goal intimately related to and embraced within the
purposes of the work of the scientific staff.
States or a State, "a fee sufficient in each case to'compensate the..
Bureau . . . for the entire cost of the services rendered shall be
"
charged ...

'Act of March 4, 1915, c. 141, 38 Stat. 997, 1044.-

212

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
STONE, J., dissenting.

289 U.S.

Both courts below found that Dunmore and Lowell
were impelled to make these inventions "solely by their
own scientific curiosity." They undoubtedly proceeded
upon their own initiative beyond the specific problems
upon which they were authorized or directed to work by
their superiors in the Bureau, who did not actively supervise their work in its inventive stages. But the evidence
leaves no doubt that in all they did they were following
the established practice of the Section. For members of

the research staff were expected and encouraged to follow
their own scientific impulses in pursuing their researches
and discoveries to the point of useful application, whether
they involved invention or not, and' even though they did

not relate to the immediate problem in hand.

After the

inventions had been conceived they were disclosed by the
inventors to their chief and they devoted considerable
time to perfecting them, with his express approvol. All
the work was carried on by them in the government laboratory with the use of government materials and facilities, during the hours for which they received a governmint salary. Its progress was recorded throughout in
weekly and monthly reports -which they were required to
file, 4s well as in their laboratory notebooks.. It seems
clear 'that in thus exercising their inventive powers in the
pursuit of ideas reaching beyond their specific assignments, the inventors were discharging the duties expected
of scientists employed in the laboratory; Dunmore as well
as his supervisors, testified that such was their conception
of the nature of the work. The conclusion is irresistible
that their scientific curiosity was precisely what gave the
inventors value as research workers; the government employed it and gave it free rein in performing the broad
duty of the Bureau of advancing the radio art by discovery and invention.
The courts below did not find that there was any agreement between the government and the inventors as to

U.S. v. DUBILIER CONDENSER CORP.
178

STONE,

213

J.,dissenting.

their relative rights in the patents and there was no evidence to support such a finding. They did not find, and
upon the facts in evidence and within the range of judicial notice, they could not find that the work done by
Dunmore and Lowell leading to the inventions in controversy was not within the scope of their employment.
Such-a finding was unnecessary to support the decisions
below, which proceeded on the theory relied on by the respondent here, that in the absence of an express contract
to assign it, an employer is entitled to the full benefit of
the patent granted to an employee, only when it is for
a particular invention which the employee was specifically hired or directed.to make. ' The bare references by
the court below to the obvious facts that "research " and
"invention" are not synonymous, and that all research
work in the Bureau is not concerned with invention, fall
far short of a finding that the work in the Bureau did not
contemplate invention at all. Those references were directed to a different end, to the establishment of what
is conceded here, that Dunmore and Lowell were not specifically hired*or directed to make the inventions because
in doing so they proceeded beyond the assignments given
them by their superiors. The court's conception of the
law, applied to. this ultimate fact, led inevitably to its
stated conciusion that the claim of the government is
without support in reason or authority " unless we should
regard a general employment for research work as synonymous with a particular employment (or assignment) for
inventive work."
The opinion of this-Court apparently rejects the distinction between specific employment or assignment and
general employment to invent, adopted by the court below and supported by authority, in favor of the broader
position urged by the, government that wherever the
.employee's duties involve the exercise of inventive powers, the employer is entitled to an assignment of the pat-

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
STONE,

J., dissenting.

289 U.S.

ent on any invention made in the scope of the general
employment. As I view the facts, I think such a rule,
to which this Court has not hitherto given explicit support, would require a decree in favor of the government.
It would also require, a decree in favor of a private employer, on the ground stated by the court that as the employee "has only produced what he is employed to invent," a specifically enforcible "term of the agreement
necessarily is that what he is paid to produce belongs to
his paymaster." A theory of decision so mechanical is
not forced upon us by precedent and cannot, I think, be
supported.
What the employee agrees to assign to his employer is
always a question of fact. It1 cannot be said that merely
because an employee agrees to invent, he also agrees to
assign any patent secured for the invention. Accordingly, if an assignment is ordered in such a case it is no
more to be explained and supported as the specific "enforcement of an agreement to transfer property in the
patent than is the shop-right which equity likewise decrees,
where the employment does not contemplate invention.
All the Varying and conflicting language of the books
cannot obscure the reality that in any case where the
rights of the employer to the invention are not fixed by
express contract, and no agreement in fact may fairly
be implied, equity determines after the event what they
shall be. In thus adjudicating in invitum the consequences of the employment relationship, equity must
reconcile the conflicting claims of the employee who has
evolved the idea and, the employer who has paid him for
his time and supplied the materials utilized in experimentation, and construction.; A task so delicate cannot be
performed by accepting the formula advanced by the petitioner any more than by adopting that urged by the
respondent, though both are not, without support in the

U.S. v. DUBILIER -CONDENSER CORP.
178

215

STONE, J., dissenting,

opinions of this Court. Compare Hapgood v. Hewitt,
119 U.S. 226; Dalzell v. Dueber Mfg. Co., 149 U.S. 315;
Solomons v. United States, 137 U.S. 342, 346; Gill. v.
United States, 160 U.S. 426, 435; Standard Parts Co. v.
Peck, 264 U.S. 52.
Where the employment does not contemplate the exercise of inventive talent the policy of. the patent laws to
stimulate invention by avarding the benefits of the monopoly to the inventor and not to someone else leads to aready compromise: a shop-right gives the employer an
adequate share in the unanticipated boon.8 Hapgood v.
Hewitt, supra;Lane & Bodle Co. V. Locke, 150 U.S. 193;
Dalzell v. Dueber Mfg. Co., supra; Pressed Steel Car Co.
v. Hansen, 137 Fed'. 403; Amdyco Corp. v. Urquhart, 39
F. (2d) 943, aff'd 51 F. (2d) 1072; Ingle v. Landis Tool
Co., 272 Fed. 464; see Beecroft & Blackman v. Rooney,
2,68 Fed. 545, 549.
But where, as in this case, the employment contemplates
invention, the adequacy of such a compromise is more
doubtful not because it contravenes an agreement for an
assignment, which may not exist, but because, arguab y,
as the patent is the fruit of the very work'which the employee is hired to do and foir which he is paid, it should
no more be withheld from the employer, in equity and
good conscience, than the product of any other service
which the employee engages to render. This result has
been reached where the contract was to devise a means
for solving a defined problem, Standard Parts Co. v. Peck,
supra, and the decision has been thought to establish the
employer's right wherever the employee is hired or assigned to evolve a process or mechanism for meeting a
specific need. Magnetic Mg. Co. v. Dings Magletic
Separator Co., 16 F. (2d) 739; Goodyear Tire & Rubber
'See the cases collected in 30 Columbia Law Rev. 1172; 36 Harvard

Law Rev. 46S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
STONE, J., dissenting.

289 U.S.

Co. v. Miller, 22 F. (2d) 353, 356; Houghton v. United
States, 23 F. (2d) 386. But the court below and others
have thought (Pressed Steel Car Co. v. Hansen, supra;
Houghton v. United States, supra; Amdyco Corp. v. Urquhart, supra), as the respondent argues, that only in cases
where the employment or assignment is thus specific may
the employer demand all the benefits of the employee's
invention. The basis of such a limitation is not articulate
in the cases. There is at least a question whether its
application may not be attributed, in some instances, to
the readier implication of an actual promise to assign the
patent, where the duty is to invent a specific thing (see
Pressed Steel Car Co. v. Hansen, supra, 415), or, in any
case, to the reluciance of equity logically to extend, in
this field, the principle that the right to claim the service
includes the right to claim its product. The latter alternative may find support in the policy of the patent laws
to secure to the inventor the fruits of his inventive genius,
in the hardship which may be involved in imposing a duty
to assign all inventions, see Dalzell v. Dueber Mfg. Co.,
supra, 323, cf. Aspinwall Mfg. Co. v. Gill, 32 Fed. 697,
700, and in a possible inequality in bargaining power of
employer and employee. But compare Goodyear Tire &
Rubber Co. v. Miller, supra, 355; Hulse v. Bonsack Mach.
Co., 65 Fed. 864, 868; see 30 Columbia Law Rev. 1172,
1176-8. There is no reason for determining now the
weight which should be accorded these objections to complete control of the invefition by the employer, in cases
of ordinary employment for private purposes. Once it
is recognized, as it must be, that the function of the
Court in every case is to determine whether the employee
may, in equity and good conscience retain the benefits of
the patent, it is apparent that the present case turns upon
considerations which distinguish it from any which has
thus far been decided.

U.S. v. DUBILIER CONDENSER CORP.
178

STONE,

217

J., dissenting.

The inventors were not only employed to engage in
work which unmistakably required them to exercise their
inventive genius as occasion arose; they were a part of a
public enterprise. It was devoted to the improvement of
the art of radio communication for the benefit of the
people of the United States, carried on in a government
laboratory, maintained by public funds. Considerations
which might favor the employee where the interest of
the employer is only in private gain are therefore of slight
significance; the policy dominating the research in the
Bureau, as the inventors knew, was that of the government to further the interests of the public by advancing
the radio art. For the work to be successful, the government must be free to use the results for. the benefit of
the public in the most effective way. A patent monopoly)
in individual employees, carrying with it the powei t'
suppress the invention, or at least to exclude others from
using it, would destroy this freedom; a shop-right in the
government would not confer it. For these employees, in
the circumstances, to attempt to withhold from the public and from the government the full benefit of the inventions which it has paid them to produce, appears to
me so unconscionable and inequitable as to demand the
interposition of a court exercising chancery powers. A
court which habitually enjoins a mortgagor from acquiring and setting ulf a tax title adversely to the mortgagee,
Middletown Savings Bank v. Bacharach,46 Conn. 513,524;
Chamberlain v. Forbes, 126 Mich. 86; 85 N.W. 253;
Waring v. National Savings & Trust Co., 138. Md. 367;
114 Atl. 57; see 2 Jones on Mortgages (8th ed.), § 841,
should find no difficulty in enjoining these employees and
the respondent claiming under them from asserting, under
the patent laws, rights which would defeat the very object of their employment. The capacity of equitable doctrine for growth and of courts of equity to mould it to

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
STONE,

J., dissenting.

289 US.

new situations, was not exhausted with the establishment
of the employer's shop-right. See Essex Trust Co. v. Enwright, 214 Mass. 507; 102 N.E. 441; Meinhaid v. Salmon, 249 N.Y. 458; 164 N.E. 545.
If, in the application of familiar principles to the situation presented here, we must advance somewhat beyond
the decided cases, I see nothing revolutionary in the step.
We need not be deterred by fear of the necessity, inescapable in the development of the law, of setting limits to
the doctrine we apply, as the need arises. That prospect
does not require us to shut our eyes to the obvious consequences of the decree which has been rendered here.
The result is repugnant to common notions of justice and
to policy as well, and the case must turn upon these considerations if we abandon the illusion that equity is called
upon merely to enforce a contract, albeit, one that is
"'implied." The case would be more dramatic if the inventions produced at public expense were important to
the preservation of human 'life, or the public health, or
the agricultural resources of the country. The principle
is the same here, though the inventions are of importance
only in the furtherance of human happiness. In enlisting their scientific talent and curiosity in the performance
of the public service in which the Bureau was engaged,
Dunmore and Lowell necessarily renounced the prospect
of deriving from their work commercial rewards incompatible with it.? Hence, there is nothing oppressive or
'It has been said that many scientists in the employ of the government regard the acceptance of patent rights leading to commercial
rewards in any case as an abasement of their work. Hearings on Exploitation of Inventions by Government Employees, Senate Committee
on Patents, 65th Cong., 3d Sess. (1919), pp. 16, 17; see also the
Hearings before the same Committee, January 23, 1920, 66th Cong.,
2d Sess. (1920), p. 5. The opinion of the Court attributes importance to the fact, seemingly irrelevant,. that other employees of the
Bureau have in some instances in the past taken out patents on their

U.S. v. DUBILIER CONDENSER CORP.
178

STONE,

J., dissenting.

unconscionable in requiring them or their licensee to surrender their patents at the instance of the United States,
as there probably would be if the inventions had not been
made within the scope of their employment or if the employment did not contemplate invention at all.
The issue raised here is unaffected by legislation. Undoubtedly the power rests with Congress to enact a rule
of decision for determining the ownership and control of
patents on inventions made' by government employees in
the course of their employment. But I find no basis for
saying that Congress has done so or that it has manifested
any affirmative policy for the disposition of cases of this
kind, which is at variance with the considerations which
are controlling here.
The Act of June 25, 1910, 36 Stat. 851, as amended
July 1, 1918, 40 Stat. 704, 705, permitted patentees to sue
the government in the Court of Claims for the unauthorized use of their patents. It was in effect an eminent
domain statute by which just compensation'was secured
to the patentee, whose patent had been used by the government. See Richmond Screw Anchor Co. v. United
States, 275 U.S. 331.' This statute excluded government
employees from the benefits of the Act in order, as the
House Committee Report ekplicitly points out, to leave
unaffected the shop-rights of the government. See H.R.
Report No. 1288, 61st Cong. 2d Sess. A statute thus
inventions which, so far as appears, the government has not prevented
them from enjoying. The circumstances under which those inventions were made do not appear. But even if they were the same as
those in the present case there is no basis for .contLnding that becaus6
the government saw fit not to assert its rights in other cases it has
lost them in this. Moreover, there is no necessary inconsistency in
the government's position if it' concluded in those' cases that the
public interest would be served best by permitting the employees
to' exploii their inventions themselves, and adopted a contrary
conclusion here.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
STONE,

J., dissenting.

289 U.S.

aimed at protecting in every case the minimum rights of
the government can hardly be taken to deny other and
greater rights growing out of the special equity of cases
like'the present.
The Act of April 30, 1928, 45 Stat. .467, 468, amending
an earlier statute of 1883 (22 Stat. 625), so as to permit
a patent to be issued to a government employee without
payment of fees, for any invention which the head of a
department or independent bureau certifies "is used or
liable to be used in the public service," and which the
application specifies may, if patented, "be manufactured
and used by or for the Government for governmental purposes without the payment of . . . any royalty," was
passed, it is, true., with the general purpose of encouraging
government employees to take out patents on their inventions. But this purpose was not, as the opinion of the
Court suggests, born of a Congressional intent that a
government employee who conceives an invention in the
course of his employment should be protected in his
right to exclude 'all others but the government from using
it. Congress was concerned neither with enlarging nor
with narrowing the relative rights of the government and
its employees.' ° This is apparent from the language of
the statute that the patent shall be issued without a fee
"subject to existing law," as well as from the records of
its legislative history.1 1
the various speculations in -committee as to what
those rights were, it was generally agreed that they were intended
See Hearings before the House
to remain unchanged by the bill.
Committee on Patents, 68th Cong., 2d Sess., on H.R. 3267 and 11403
(1925); Hearings before the same Committee, 70th Cong., 1st Sess.
(1928), especially at pp. 8-13. The discussion on the floor of the
House, referred to in the opinion of the Court (see note 19) does not
indicate the contrary.
"'In addition to the hearings cited supra, note 10, see H.R. Report
No. 1596, 68th Cong., 2d Sess.; H.R. Report No. 871, Senate Report
1Throughout

U.S. v. DUBILIER CONDENSER CORP.
178

STONE,

221

J., dissenting.

The purpose of Congress in facilitating the patenting
of inventions by government employees was to protect
the existing right of the government to use all devices
invented in the service, whether or not the patentee was
employed to use his inventive powers. Experience had
shown that this shop-right was jeopardized unless the
employee applied for a patent, since without the disclosure incident to the application the government was
frequently hampered in its defense of claims by others
asserting priority of invention. But doubt which had
arisen whether an application for a patent under the
Act of 1883 did not operate to dedicate the patent to
the public," and reluctance to pay the fees otherwise
required, had led government employees to iYeglect to'
make applications, even when they were entitled to the
benefits of the monopoly subject only to the government's
right of use. This doubt the amendment removed. It
can hardly be contended that in removing it in order
to aid the government in the protection of its shopright,
Congress declared a policy that it should have no greater
right to control a patent procured. either under this
special statute or under the general patent laws by fraud
or any other type of inequitable conduct. Haa such a
policy been declared, it is difficult to see on what basis
we could award the government a remedy, as it seems
to be agreed we would, if Dunmore and Lowell had been
specifically employed to make the inventions. There is
nothing to indicate that Congress adopted one policy for
such a case and a contrary one for this.
No. 765, 70ih Cong., 1st Sess. The bill was originally a companion
proposal to the Federal Trade Commission bill discussed infra, note
13. See the references given there.
See Selden Co. v. National Aniline & Chemical Co., 48 F. (2d)
270, 272; Squier v. American Telephone & Telegraph Co., 7 F. (2d)
831, 832, affirmed 21 F. (2d) 747.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
STONE,

J., dissenting.

289 U.S.

Other legislation proposed but not enacted, 3 requires
but a word. Even had Congress expressly rejected a
bill purporting to enact into law the rule of decision
which I think applicable here, its failure to act could
not be accorded the force of law. But no such legislation has been proposed to Congress, and that which was
suggested may have been and probably was defeated for
reasons unconnected with the issue presented in this
case. 'The legislative record does show, as the opinion
of the Court states, that it is a difficult question which
has been the subject of consideration at least since the
war, whether the public, interest is best Served by the
'The bill referred to in the opinion of the Court was one sponsored
by the executive departments to endow the Federal Trade Commission with the power to accept assignments of patents from government
employees and administer them in the public interest. It passed the
Senate on one occasion and the House on another but failed to become
a law. (S. 5265, 65th Cong., 3d Sess., S. 3223, 66th Cong.,. 1st Sess.,
H.R. 9932, 66th Cong., 1st Sess., H.R. 11984, 66th Cong., 3d Sess.)
In the course of hegrings and debates many points of view were expressed. See Hearings on Exploitation of Inventions by Government
-Employees, Senate Committee on Patents, 65th Cong., 3d Sess.
(1919); Hearing before the same Committee, 66th Cong., 2d Sess.
(1920); Senate Report No. 405, H.R. Report No. 595, 66th Cong., 2d
Sess., recommending passage. See 59 Cong. Rec., 2300, 2421, 2430,
3908, 4682, 4771, 8359, 8360, 8483, 8490; 60 ibid. 356; Conference Report, H.R. No. 1294, Sen. Doe. No. 379, 66th Cong., 3d Sess. And
see 60 Cong. Rec., 2890, 3229, 3264-3269, 3537. Differences were
stressed in the purposes and needs of different agencies of the Government. See especially Hearings (1919), supra, pp. 22, 24-5. The need
of commercial, incentives to private exploiters, as well as the general
desirability of such exploitation were admitted, but the dangers were
recognized as well. It was thought that the public interest would
best be served by the establishment of a single agency for government
control, with the power to determine upon some compensation for the
inventor.
After the death of this bill in the Senate, February 21, 1921, the
subject was again considered by an Interdepartmental Board estab-

U.S. v. DUBILIER CONDENSER CORP.
178

HUGHES,

223

C. J., dissenting.

dedication of an invention to the public or by its exploitation with patent protection under license from the
government or the inventor. But the difficulty of resolving the question does not justify a decree which does
answer it in favor of permitting government employees
such as these to exploit their inventions without restriction, rather than one which would require the cancellation of their patents or their assignment to the United
States.
The decrees should be reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO

concurs in this opinion.

dissenting:
I agree with Mr. Justice Stone's analysis of the facts
showing the nature of the employment of Dunmore and
Lowell, and with his conclusions as to the legal effect
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES,

lished by executive order of President Harding, August 9, 1922. Its
report was transmitted to Congress by President Coolidge, in December, 1923. Sen. Doe. No. 83, 68th Cong., 1st Sess. The Board found
that there had never been any general governmental policy established
with respect to inventions, that whether public dedication, private
exploitation or governmental control and administration is desirable,
depends largely on the nature of the invention. Accordingly, legislation was recommended establishing a permanent Interdepartmental
Patents Board with the power to demand assignments of patents on
those inventions thereafter developed in the service which "in the
interest of the national defense, or otherwise in the public interest"
should be controlled by the Government. No action was taken upon
this proposal.
Since that time the Director of the Bureau of Standards has recommended that a "uniform, equitable policy of procedure" be defined
for the government by legislation. (Annual Report for 1925, p. 40.)
In the Report for 1931 it is said (p. 46) that the "patent policy of
this Bureau has always been that patentable devices developed by
employees paid out of public funds belong to the public," and the
Report for 1932 adds (p. 40) "if not so dedicated directly, the vested
rights should be held by the Government."

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

of that employment. As the people of the United States
should have the unrestricted benefit of the inventions in
such a case, I think that the appropriate remedy would be
to cancel the patents.

UNITED STATES v. DARBY
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF MARYLAND

No. 653.

Argued March 14, 1933.-Decided April 10, 1933

Under R.S., § 5209, as amended, which makes it a crime for an.
officer of a Federal Reserve Bank, or of any member bank, to make
any false entry in its books with intent to defraud, the entry of a
name appearing on a discounted note as that of co-maker, is a
false entry if made with knowledge that the name is a forgery.
P. 226.
2 F.Supp. 378, reversed.
APPEAL

from a judgment quashing an indictment.

Mr. Whitney North Seymour argued the cause,, and
Solicitor General Thacher and Messrs. Paul D. Miller and
William H. Ramsey filed a brief, on behalf of the United
States.
Mr. Lucien H. Mercier for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The case involves the construction of a statute of the
United States which makes it a crime for an officer or
employee of a federal reserve bank, or of any member
bank, to make any entry in its books with intent to defraud. R.S. § 5209 as amended by the Act of Septem-

