OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

289 U.S.

reach them. Clearly the power of Congress and of the
Commission to prevent interstate carriers from practicing
discrimination against a particular locality is not confined to those whose rails enter it."
The judgment should be affirmed.
The

CHIEF JUSTICE,

JUSTICE CAADozo

MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS and MR.

concur in"this opinion.

BURNET, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v. WELLS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 792.

Argued May 10, 1933.-Decided May 29, 1933.

1. Under § 219 (h) of the Revenue Acts of 1924 and 1926, where
an irrevocable trust is established to pay for insurance on the
settlor's life, collect the policy upon his death, and hold or apply
the proceeds, under the trust, for the benefit of his dependents, income of the trust fund used by the trustee in paying the premiums, is taxable to the settlor as part of his own income. P. 675.
2. This tax is constitutional as applied to income accruing since
the enactment of the legislation from trusts created earlier.
Pp. 677, 682.
3. Refinements of title are without controlling force in determining
whether a statute arbitrarily attributes to one person a taxable
interest in the income of another. The question is not whether
the concept of ownership reflected in the statute squares with
common-law traditions, but rather whether that concept could
reasonably be adopted because of privilege enjoyed or benefit derived by the taxpayer, some regard being had also to administrative convenience and the practical necessities of an efficient taxing
system. P. 678.
4. To overcome this statute the taxpayer must show that in attributing to him the ownership of the income of the trusts, or something
fairly to be dealt with as equivalent to ownership, the lawmakers
have done a wholly arbitrary thing, have found equivalence where
there was none nor anything approaching it, and laid a burden
unrelated to privilege or benefit. P, 679.

BURNET v. WELLS.
670

Argument for Respondent.

5. Income permanently applied by the act of the taxpayer to the
maintenance of contracts of insurance made in his name for the
support of his dependents is income used for his benefit in such a
sense and to such a degree that there is nothing arbitrary or
tyrannical in taxing it as his. P. 679.
63 F. (2d) 425, reversed.

to review the reversal, in part, of a ruling
of the Board of Tax Appeals, 19 B.T.A. 1213, upholding
certain assessments of income.
CERTIORARI*

Mr. Erwin N. Griswold, with whom Solicitor General
Thacher,Miss Helen R. Carlo8s, and Mr. Sewall Key were
on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. J. S. Y. Ivins, with whom Messrs. Kiftgman Brewster, Percy W. Phillips, and Richard B. Barker were on
the brief, for respondent.
Mr. Wells, throughout the taxable years involved, had
no interest in the corpus or income of the trusts nor in
the ie insurance policies. Section 219 (h) of the Revenue Acts of 1924 and 1926 is unconstitutional in attempting to tax him upon the income of the trusts, for Congress
is limited by the Fifth Amendment in the same manner
that state legislatures are limited by the Fourteenth
Amendment. Heiner v. Donnan, 285 U.S. 312. And a
State can not tax one person on the income of another.
Hoeper v. Wisconsin Tax Comm'n, 284 U.S. 206. The
situation is entirely different from that in Reinecke v.
Smith, 289 U.S. 172, and Porter v. Commissioner, 288
U.S. 436, where the settlor retained power to revoke the
trust or to completely revise it and make different disposition of the property, but is similar to Reinecke v.
Northern Trust Co., 278 U.S. 339, where, the title having
been put beyond the control of the settlor, the property
was no longer a part of his estate.
* See Table of Cases Reported in this Volame.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

The capriciousness of the tax is demonstrated in the
Revenue Act of 1932, under which a gift tax is imposed
in cases such as this in addition to the income tax.
The trusts were in no sense testamentary. Nichols v.
Coolidge, 274 U.S. 531, 540. And the trust property
could not have been taxed as a part of Wells's estate.
Coolidge v. Long, 282 U.S. 582; Lewellyn v. Frick, 268
U.S. 238. The fact that the purposes served by the trusts
were the settlor's purposes does not render him taxable.
A gift from B to A is not taxable as income to A,
whether paid directly to A or in discharge of A's obligation to C. Distinguishing: Old Colony Trust Co. v. Commissioner, 279 U.S. 716; Adams v. Commissioner, 18
B.T.A. 381; *and Danforth v. Commissioner, 18 B.T.A.
1221; United States v. Boston & Maine R. Co., 279 U.S.
732; United States v. Mahoning Coal R. Co., 51 F. (2d)
208.
The fact that the settlor discharged a moral obligation
does not render him taxable on the income any more than
if he had discharged it by a direct gift to the beneficiaries.
There is no evasion in electing a method of managing
one's affairs which will result in no tax liability. Congress is not at liberty to violate the Constitution in its
effort to prevent such avoidance.
. Since these trusts were created irrevocably before the
effective date of the first statute, the subject thereof was
no part of the estate of Mr. Wells. Nichols v. Coolidge,
274 U.S. 531, 542-3. And "the same considerations as
to ownership and 'control affect the power to impose a
tax on the transfer of the corpus and upon the income."
Reinecke v. Smith, 289 U.S. 172.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Income of a trust has been reckoned by the taxing officers of the Government as income to be attributed to

BURNET v. WELLS.
670

Opinion of the Court.

the creator of the trust in so far as it has been applied
to the maintenance of insurance on his life. Section 219
(h) of the Revenue Acts of 1924 and 1926 permits this
to be done. The question is whether as applied to this
case the acts are constitutional.
On December 30, 1922, the respondent, Frederick B.
Wells, created three trusts, referred to in the record as
numbers 1, 2 and 3, and on August 6, 1923, two additional ones, numbers 4 and 5, all five being irrevocable.
By trust number 1, he assigned certain shares of stock
of the par value of $100,000 to the Minneapolis Trust
Company as trustee. The income of the trust was to be
used to pay the annual premiums upon a policy of insurance for $100,000 on the life of the grantor. After the
payment of the premiums, the excess income, if any, was
to be accumulated until an amount sufficient to pay an
additional annual premium had been reserved. Any additional income was, in the discretion of the trustee, to be
paid to a daughter. Upon the death of the grantor, the
trustee was to collect the policy, and with the proceeds
was to buy securities belonging to the Wells estate
amounting to $100,000 at their appraised value. The securities so purchased, which were a substitute for the cash
proceeds of the policy, were to be held as part of the trust
during the life of the daughter, who was to receive the
income. On her death the trust was to end, and the
corpus was to be divided as she might appoint by her will,
and, in default of appointment or issue, to the grantor's
sons.
The other trusts carried out very similar plans, though
for the use of other beneficiaries. Thus, trust number 2
had in view the preservation of a policy of life insurance
which was to be held when collected for the use of one
Lindstrom, said to be a kinswoman. Trust number 3
was directed to the maintenance of four policies of insurance for named beneficiaries, three of them relatives of the
. 15450*-33-43

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

grantor and one a valued employee, who later became his
wife. Trust number 4 kept alive seven policies of life
insurance which had been taken out by the grantor for
the use of sons and daughter, and three accident policies
for his own use. Trust number 5 kept alive nine life
policies for his sons and daughter, and two accident policies for himself. Several of the deeds made provision for
contingent limitations for the benefit of charities.
The grantor in making the returns of his own income
for the years 1924, 1925, and 1926, did not include any
part of the income belonging to the trusts. Upon an
audit of the returns the Commissioner of Internal Revenue assessed a deficiqncy to the extent that the income
of the trusts had been applied to the payment of premiums
on the policies of insurance. There was no attempt to
charge against the taxpayer the whole income of the
trusts, to charge him with the excess applied to other
uses than the preservation of the policies. The deficiency
assessment was limited to that part of the income which
had kept the policies alive. The Board of Tax Appeals
upheld the Commissioner. 19 B.T.A. 1213. The Circuit
Court of Appeals reversed except as to the premiums on
the policies of accident insurance, those policies, in the
event of loss thereunder, being payable to the insured himself. As to the income applied to the maintenance of the
policies of life insurance, payable, as they were, to persons
other than the insured or his estate, the Court of Appeals
held that an assessment could not be made against the
creator of the trust without an arbitrary taking of his
property in violation of the Fifth Amendment. 63 F.
(2d) 425. Section 219 (h) of the Revenue Acts of 1924
and 1926, permitting such an assessment, was adjudged
to be void. The court drew no distinction between the
validity of the statute in its application to trusts in existence at the time of its enactment and its validity in

BURNET v. WELLS.
670

675

Opinion of the Court.

application to trusts to be created afterwards. A writ of
certiorari brings the case here.
The meaning of the statute is not doubtful, whatever
may be said of its validity. "Where any part of the income of a trust is or may be applied to the payment of
premiums upon policies on the life of the grantor (except
policies of insurance irrevocably payable for the purposes
and in the manner specified in paragraph (10) of subdivision (a) of section 214 [the exception having relation
to trusts for charities]), such part of the income of the
trust shall be included in computing the net income of
the grantor." Section 219 (h), Revenue Act of 1924,
c. 234; 43 Stat. 253; 26 U.S. Code, § 960; Revenue Act
of 1926, c. 27, 44 Stat. 9; 26 U.S. Code App., § 960.
The purpose of the law is disclosed by its legislative
history, and indeed is clear upon the surface. When the
bill which became the Revenue Act of 1924 was introduced
in the House of Representatives, the Report of the Committee on Ways and Means made an explanatory statement. Referring to § 219 (h) it said: "Trusts have
been used to evade taxes by means of provisions
allowing the distribution of the income to the grantor or
its use for his benefit. The purpose of this subdivision of
the bill is to stop this evasion." House Report, No. 179,
68th Congress, 1st Session, p. 21. There is a like statement in the Report of the Senate Committee on Finance.
Senate Report, No. 398, 68th Congress, 1st Session, pp. 25,
26. By the creation of trusts, incomes had been so divided
and subdivided as to withdraw from the Government the
benefit of the graduated taxes and surtaxes applicable to
income when concentrated in a single ownership. Like
methods of evasion, or, to speak more accurately, of avoidance (Bullen v. Wisconsin, 240 U.S. 625, 630), had been
used to diminish the transfer or succession taxes payable
at death. One can read in the revisions of the revenue

676

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

acts the record of the Government's endeavor to keep pace
with the fertility of invention whereby taxpayers had
contrived to keep the larger benefits of ownership and be
relieved of the attendant burdens.
A method, much in vogue until an amendment made
it worthless, was the creation of a trust with a power of
revocation. This device was adopted to escape the
burdens of the tax upon incomes and the tax upon estates.
To neutralize the effect of the device in its application
to incomes, Congress made provision by § 219 (g) of the
Revenue Act of 1924 that "where the grantor of a trust
has, at any time during the taxable year, either alone or
in conjunction with any person not a beneficiary of the
trust, the power to revest in himself title to any part of
the corpus of the trust, then the income of such part of
the trust for such taxable year shall be included in computing the net income of the grantor." The validity of
this provision was assailed by taxpayers. It was upheld
by this court in Corliss v. Bowers, 281 U.S. 376, as applied to a trust in existence at the enactment of the
statute, the power of revocation in that case being reserved to the grantor alone, and recently, at the present
term, was upheld where the power of revocation had been
reserved to the grantor in conjunction with some one else.
Reinecke v. Smith, ante, p. 172. Cf. Burnet v. Guggenheim, 288 U.S. 280. Other amendments of the statute
were directed to the trust as an instrument for the avoidance of the tax upon estates. By § 302 (d) of the Revenue Act of 1924, the gross estate of a decedent is to be
taken as including the subject of any trust which he has
created during life "where the enjoyment thereof was
subject at the date of his death to any change through
the exercise of a power, either by the decedent alone or
in conjunction with any person, to alter, amend or revoke,
or where the decedent relinquished any such power in
contemplation of his death, except in case of a bona fide

-BURNET v. WELLS.
670

677

Opinion of the Court.

sale for a fair consideration in money or money's worth."
The validity of this provision as to trusts both past and
future is no longer open to debate. Porter v. Commissioner, 288 U.S. 436. Cf. Reinecke v. Northern Trust Co.,
278 U.S. 339; Chase National Bank v. United States, 278
U.S. 327; Saltonstall v. Saltonstall, 276 U.S. 260.
Through the devices thus neutralized as well as through
many others there runs a common thread of purpose. The
solidarity of the family is to make it possible for the taxpayer to surrender title to another and to keep dominion
for himself, or if not technical dominion, at least the substance of enjoyment. At times escape has been blocked
by the resources of the judicial process without the aid of
legislation. Thus, Lucas v. Earl, 281 U.S. 111, held that
the salary earned by a husband was taxable to him,
though he had bound himself by a valid contract to assign it to his wife. Burnet v. Leininger, 285 U.S. 136,
laid down a like rule where there had been an assignment
by a partner of his interest in the future profits of a
partnership. Old Colony Trust Co. v. Commissioner, 279
U.S. 716, and United States v. Boston & Maine R. Co.,
279 U.S. 732, held that income was received by a taxpayer when pursuant to a contract a debt or other obligation was discharged by another for his benefit, the transaction being the same in substance as if the money had
been paid to the debtor and then transmit'.ed to the creditor. Cf. United States v. Mahoning Coal R. Co., 51 F.
(2d) 208. In these and other cases there has been a
progressive endeavor by the Congress and the courts to
bring about a correspondence between the legal concept
of ownership and the economic realities*of enjoyment or
fruition. Of a piece with that endeavor is the statute now
assailed.
The controversy is one as to the boundaries of legislative power. 'Itmust be dealt with in a large way, as questions of due process always are, not narrowly or pedanti-

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

cally, in slavery to forms or phrases. "Taxation is not
so much concerned with the refinements of title as it is
with the actual command over the property taxed-the
actual benefit for which the tax is paid." Corliss v.
Bowers, supra, p. 378. Cf. Burnet v. Guggenheim, supra,
p. 283. Refinements of title have at times supplied the
rule when the question has been one of construction and
nothing more, a question as to the meaning of a taxing act
to be read in favor of the taxpayer. Refinements of title
are without controlling force wh~en a statute, unmistakable in meaning, is assailed by a taxpayer as overpassing
the bounds of reason, an exercise by the lawmakers of
arbitrary power. In such circumstances the question is no
longer whether the concept of ownership reflected in the
statute is to be squared with the concept embodied, more
or less vaguely, in common law traditions. The question is whether it is one that an enlightened legislator
might act upon without affront to justice. Even administrative convenience, the practical necessities of an efficient system of taxation, will have heed and recognition
within reasonable limits. Milliken v. United States, 283
U.S. 15, 24, 25; Reinecke v. Smith, supra. Liability does
not have to rest upon the enjoyment by the taxpayer of
all the privileges and benefits enjoyed by the most favored
owner at a given time or place. Corliss v. Bowers, supra;
Reinecke v. Smith, supra. Government in casting about
for proper subjects of taxation is not confined by the traditional classification of interests or estates. It may tax
not only ownership, but any right or privilege that is a
constituent of ownership. Nashville, C. & St. L. Ry. Co.
v. Wallace, 288 U.S. 249, 268; Bromley v. McCaughn,280
U.S. 124, 136. Liability may rest upon the enjoyment
by the taxpayer of privileges and benefits so substantial
and important as to make it reasonable and just to deal
with him as if he were the owner, and to tax him on that
basis. A margin must be allowed for the play of legisla-

BURNET v. WELLS.
670 "

Opinion of the Court.

tive judgment. To overcome this statute the taxpayer
must show that in attributing to him the ownership of
the income of the trusts, or something fairly to be dealt
with as equivalent to ownership, the lawmakers have done
a wholly arbitrary thing, have found equivalence where
there was none nor anything approaching it, and laid a
burden unrelated to privilege or benefit. Purity Extract
& Tonic Co. v. Lynch, 226 U.S. 192, 204; Hebe Co. v.
Shaw, 248 U.S. 297, 303; Milliken v. United States, supra.
The statute, as we view it, is not subject to that reproach.*
A policy of life insurance is a contract susceptible of
ownership like any other chose in action. It "Is not an
assurance for a single year with a privilege of renewal from
year to year by paying the annual premium." It is "an
entire contract of assurance for life, subject to discontinuance and forfeiture for nonpayment of any of the stipulated premiums." N.Y. Life Insurance Co. v. Statham,
93 U.S. 24, 30; Vance on Insurance, pp. 260, 262, and cases
there cited. One who takes out a policy on his own life,
after application in his own name accepted -by the company, becomes in so doing a party to a contract, though
the benefits of the insurance are to accrue to some one
else. Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Hurni Packing Co., 263
U.S. 167, 177; Vance on Insurance, pp. 90, 91 and 108.
The rights and interests thereby generated do not inhere
solely in those who are to receive the proceeds. They
inhere also in the insured who in co6peration with the
insurer has brought the contract into being. If the Minneapolis Trust Company, the trustee, were to refuse to
apply the income to the preservation of the insurance,
* The trusts, having been created in 1922 and 1923, were not subject
to the gift tax of 1924, 43 Stat. 253, 313, c. 234, §§ 319, 320; 26 U.S.
Code, §§ 1131, 1132. Whether they would have been subject to that
tax if they had been created at a later date is a question not before us.
There is no inconsistency between a gift to take effect in enjoyment
upon the death of a grantor and the reservation of benefits to be
enjoyed during his life.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

the insured might maintain a suit to hold it to its duty.
If the insurer without cause were to repudiate the policies,
the insured would have such an interest in the preservation of the contracts that he might maintain a suit in
equity to declare them still in being. Cohen v. N.Y. Mut.
L. Ins. Co., 50 N.Y. 610, 624; Meyer v. Knickerbocker L.
Ins. Co., 73 N.Y. 516, 524; Fidelity National Bank v.
Swope, 274 U.S. 123, 132; cf. Croker v. N.Y. Trust Co.,
245 N.Y. 17, 18, 20; 156 N.E. 81; Johnson Service Co. v.
Monin, Inc., 253 N.Y. 417, 421; "171 N.E. 692; American
Law Institute, Restatement of the Law of Contracts,
§§ 135, 138; Williston, Contracts, §§ 358, 359. The contracts remain his, or his at least in part, though the fruits
when they are gathered are to go to some one else.
American Law Institute, Restatement of the Law of
Contracts, supra.
With the aid of this analysis the path is cleared to a
conclusion. Wells, by the creation of these trusts, did
more than devote his income to the benefit of relatives.
He devoted it at the same time to the preservation of his
own contracts, to the protection of an interest which he
wished to keep alive. The ends to be attained must be
viewed in combination. True he would have been at.liberty, if the trusts had not been made, to put an end to his
interest in the policies through nonpayment of the premiums, to stamp the contracts out. The chance that economic changes might force him to that choice was a motive,
along with others, for the foundation of the trusts. In
effect he said to the trustee that for the rest of his life he
would dedicate a part of his income to the preservation
of these contracts, so much did they mean for his peace of
mind and happiness. Income permanently applied by the
act of the taxpayer to the maintenance of contracts of
insurance made in his name for the support of his dependents is income used for his benefit in such a sense and to

BURNET v. WELLS.
670

Opinion of the Court.

such a degree that there is nothing arbitrary or tyrannical
in taxing it as his.
Insurance for dependents is today in the thought of
many a pressing social duty. Even if not a duty, it is a
common item in the family budget, kept up very often
at the cost of painful sacrifice, and abandoned only under
dire compulsion. It will be a vain effort at persuasion to
argue to the average man that 9 trust created by a father
to pay premiums on life policies for the use of sons and
daughters is not a benefit to the one who will have to pay
the premiums if the policies are not to lapse. Only by
closing our minds to common modes of thought, to everyday realities, shall we find it in our power to form another
judgment. The case is not helped by imagining exceptional conditions in which the advantage to the creator
of the trust would be slender or remote. By and Jarge
the purpose of trusts for the maintenance of policies is to
make provision for dependents, or so at least the lawmakers might not unreasonably assume. Trusts to give
insurance to creditors are beneficial to the grantor by reducing his indebtedness. Trusts for charities are expressly excepted from the operation of the tax. § 219
(h); § 214 (a) (10). If other classes of life policies exist,
they must be relatively few. The line of division between the rational and the arbitrary in legislation is not
to be drawn with an eye to remote possibilities. What the
law looks for in establishing its standards is a probability
or tendency of general validity. If this is attained, the
formula will serve, though there are imperfections here
and there. The exceptional, if it arises, may have its
special rule. Dahnke-Walker Co. v. Bondurant, 257 U.S.
282, 289.
Trusts for the preservation of policies of insurance involve a continuing exercise by the settlor of a power to
direct the application of the income along predetermined

682

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

channel. In this they are to be distinguished from trusts
where the income of a fund, though payable to wife or
kin, may be expended by the beneficiaries without restraint, may be given away or squandered, the founder of
the trust doing nothing to impose his will upon the use.
There is no occasion at this time to mark the applicable
principle for those and other cases. The relation between
the parties, the tendency of the transfer to give relief
from obligations that are recognized as binding by normal
men and women, will be facts to be considered. Cf.
Reinecke v. Smith, supra, distinguishing Hoeper v. Tax
Commission, 284 U.S. 206. We do not go into their bearing now. Here the use to be made of the income of the
trust was subject, from first to last, to the will of the
grantor announced at the beginning. A particular expense, which for millions of men and women has become
a fixed charge, as it doubtless was for Wells, an expense
which would have to be continued if he was to preserve,
a contract right, was to be met in a particular way. He
might have created a blanket trust for the payment of all
the items of his own and the family budget, classifying
the proposed expenses by adequate description. If the
transaction had taken such a form, one can hardly doubt
the validity of a legislative declaration that income so
applied should be' deemed to be devoted to his use. Instead of shaping the transaction thus, he picked out of
the- total budget an item or class of items, the cost of
continuing his contracts of insurance, and created a source
of income to preserve them against lapse.
Congress does not play the despot in ordaining that
trusts for such uses, if created in the future, shall be
treated for the purpose of taxation as if the income of
the trust had been retained by the grantor.
It does not play the despot in ordaining a like rule as
to trusts created in the past, at all events when ih so doing
it does not cast the burden backward beyond the income

BURNET v. WELLS.
670

SUTHERLAND, VAN DEVANTER, McRwTNowS,

and BuTER, JJ., dissenting.

of the current year. Reinecke v. Smith, supra; Corliss v.
Bowers, supra; Brushaber v. Union Pacific R. Co., 240
U.S. 1; Cooper v. United States, 280 U.S. 409, 411;
Milliken v. United States, supra.
The judgment is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND,

dissenting.

MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER, MR. JUSTICE McR.YNOLDS, MR. JUSTICE BUTLER and I think otherwise.

The powers of taxation are broad, but the distinction
between taxation and confiscation must still be observed.
So long as the Fifth Amendment remainb unrepealed and
is permitted to control, Congress may not tax the property
of A as the property of B, or the income of A as the income
of B.
The facts here show that Wells created certain irrevocable trusts. He retained no vestige of title to, interest
in, or control over, the property transferred to the trustee.
The result was a present, executed, outright gift, which
could then have been taxed to the settlor. Burnet'v. Guggenheim, 288 U.S. 280. That the property which was the
subject of the gift could never thereafter, without a change
of title, be taxed to the settlor is, of course, too plain
for argument. To establish the contention that the income from such property, the application of which for
the benefit of others had been irrevocably fixed, is nevertheless the income of the settlor and may lawfully be taxed
as his proDerty, requires something more tangible than a
purpose to perform a social duty, or the recognition of a
moral claim as distinguished from a legal obligation, which,
we think, is not supplied by an assumption of his desire
thereby to secure his own peace of mind and happiness
or relieve himself from further concern in the matter. If
the trusts in question had irrevocably devoted the income

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
SUTHERLAND, VAN DEVANTER, MCREYNOLDS,

289 U.S.

and BUTLER, JJ., dissenting.

to charitable purposes, to the cause of scientific research,
or to the promotion of the spread of religion among the
heathen, and the statute had authorized its taxation, probably no thoughtful person would have insisted that the
relation of the settlor to the benefaction was such as constitutionally to justify the tax against him. And yet in
each of these supposed cases it would not be hard to find
a purpose to discharge a social duty, or unreasonable to
assume the desire of the settlor thereby to enjoy the mental comfort which is supposed to follow the voluntary
performance of righteous deeds.
If 'there be any difference between the cases supposed
and the present one, it is a difference without real substance. In each the motive of the taxpayer is immaterial.
The material question is, what has he done?-not, why
has he done it?-however pertinent the latter query might
be in a different case. Obviously, as it seems to us, the
distinction to be observed is between the devotion of
income to payments which the settlor is bound to make,
and to those which he is free to make or not make, as he
may see fit. In the former case the payments have the
substantial elements of income to the settlor. In the
latter, whatever may be said of the moral influence which
induced the settlor to direct the payments, they are income of the trustee for the benefit of others than the
settlor.
It is not accurate, we think, to say that these trusts
involve the continuing exercise by the settlor of a power
to direct the application of the income along predeter'mined channels. The exertion of power on the part of the
settlor to direct such application begins and ends with the
creation of the irrevocable trusts. Thereafter, the power
is to be exercised automatically by the trustee under a
grant which neither he nor the settlor can recall or
abridge. The income, of course, is taxable, but to the
trustee, not to the settlor. The well reasoned opinion of

DUPONT v. COMMISSIONER.
670

Argument for Petitioner.

the court below, which fully sustains respondent's contention here, renders it unnecessary to discuss the matter at
greater length. We think that opinion should be sustained. It finds ample support in Hoeper v. Tax Commission, 284 U.S. 206, 215; Heiner v. Donnan, 285 U.S. 312,
326; and other decisions of this court.

DuPONT v. COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 791.

Argued May 10, 1933.-Decided May 29, 1933.

1. Section 219 (h) of the Revenue Acts of 1924 and 1926, taxing
incomes of trust funds as income of the settlor, when applied to
payment of premiums on policies insuring his life for the benefit of
the trust beneficiaries,-held valid under Burnet v. Wells, ante,

p. 670. P. 687.
2. One who conveys securities in trust to keep up insurance, on his
life for the benefit of others, but reserves the right to retake the
securities at the end of a stated period if he survives, retains such
an interest in the securities, apart from his interest in having the
premiums paid, that the income from the securities applied to the
premiums during the trust period may constitutionally be taxed
as his own. P. 688.
63 F. (2d) 44, affirmed.

to review a judgment which affirmed a
decision, 20 B.T.A. 482, sustaining an assessment on
income.
CERTIORARI*

Mr. J. S. Y. Ivins, with whom Messrs. Kingman Brewster, Percy W. Phillips, and Richard B. Barker were on
the brief, for petitioner.
Petitioner, at the time of the enactment of the Revenue Act of 1924, and throughout the taxable years inSee Table of Cases Reported in this Volume.

