OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

289 U.S.

Carolina at the time of the homicide. Stated otherwise,
he should not have been released unless it appeared beyond reasonable doubt that he was without the State of
South Carolina when the alleged offense was committed
and, consequently, could not be a fugitive from her
justice.
The record discloses only a: conflict of evidence; the requirement which we have indicated has not been met;
and the challenged judgment must be reversed.
The cause will be remanded to the Supreme Court of
North Carolina for further proceedings not inconsistent
Reversed.
with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER are of
the opinion that the evidence, while possibly sufficient to
sustain, does not require a finding that there is probable
cause to believe that the accused was a fugitive from
South Carolina, and therefore this court is not warranted
in reversing the judgment of the Supreme Court of North
Carolina.

UNITED STATES

EX REL.

VOLPE v. SMITH, DIREC-

TOR OF IMMIGRATION.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 724.

Argued May 10, 1933.-Decided nay 22, 1933.

1. The crime of counterfeiting obligations of the United States
involves moral turpitude. P. 423.
2. In § 19 of the Immigration Act of February 5, 1917, the provision
that any alien who was convicted, or who admits the commission,
"prior to entry," of a crime involving moral turpitude shall be
deported, applies to an alien who committed the crime in this
country while lawfully here, and who afterwards went abroad and
returned. P. 424.
3. The second coming of an alien from a foreign country into the
United States is an entry. P. 425.

UNITED STATES v. SMITH.
422

Opinion of the Court.

4. The fact that an immigration officer to whose custody an alien
was remanded for deportation, in a habeas corpus proceeding, had
beep moved to another station, held not to have caused the proceeding to abate, it appearing that he remained attached to the
Department of Labor, presumably with authority .to execute the
order of deportation, and the question of abatement not having
been raised until long after his transfer and after the case had
reached this Court. P.'426.
62 F. (2d) 808, affirmed.
CERTIORARi *

to review the affirmance of a judgment

dismissing a proceeding in habeas corpus.
Mr. John Elliott Byrne, with whom Mr. Frank R.
Reid
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Whitney North Seymour, with whom Solicitor General Thacher and Messrs. WV. Marvin Smith and Albert
E. Reitzel were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
In 1906, when sixteen years old, petitioner, Volpe, entered the United States from Italy as an alien. He has
resided here continuously since that time, but has
remained an alien.
In 1925 he pleaded guilty and was imprisoned under a
charge of counterfeiting obligations of the United Statesplainly a crime involving moral turpitude.
During June, 1928, without a passport, he made a brief
visit to Cuba. Returning, he landed from an airplane at
Key West, Florida, and secured admission by Immigrant
Inspector Phillips.
December 15, 1930, Volpe was taken into custody under
a warrant issued by the Secretary of Labor which charged
him with being unlawfully in this country because "he
has been convicted of, or admits the commission of a
*See

Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

424A

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
0pition of the Court.

289 U.S.

felony, or other crime or misdemeanor, involving moral
turpitude, to-wit: possessing and passing counterfeit U.S.
War Savings Stamps, prior to his entry into the United
States."
Following a hearing, a warrant of deportation issued
and he was taken into custody. Claiming unlawful detention, he instituted habeas corpus proceedings in the
District Court of the United States at Chicago. That
court dismissed the petition and remanded him to the
custody of S. D. Smith, District Director of Immigration
at Chicago, for deportation. The Circuit Court of Appeals
affirmed the judgment [62 F. (2d) 808] and the matter is
here by certiorari.
The only substantial point which we need consider is
this:-Was the petitioner subject to deportation under
the provisions of the Immigration Act of February 5, 1917,
c. 29, 39 Stat. 874, '875, 889, 890, (U.S.C., Title 8, §§ 136;
155, 173) because he reentered the United States from a
foreign country after conviction, during permitted residence in the United States, of a crime committed therein
which involved moral turpitude? Relevant provisions of
the Act of 1917 are in the margin.*
*Sec. 1. That the word "alien" wherever used in this Act shall
include any person ndt a native-born or naturalized citizen of the
United States; . ..
Sec. 3. That the following classes of aliens shall be excluded from
admission into the United States: . . . persons who have been convicted of or admit having committed a felony or other crime or'misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; . . .'
See. 19. That at.any time within five years after entry, any alien
who at the time of entry was a member of one or more of the classes
excluded by law; any alien who shall have entered or who shall be
found in the United States in violation of this Act, or in violation of
any other law of the United States; . ..except as hereinafter provided, any alien.who is hereafter sentenced to imprisonment for a
term of one year or more because of conviction in this country of a
crime involving moral turpitude, committed within five years after
the entry of the alien to the United States, or who is hereafter
sentenced more than once to such a term of imprisonment because of
conviction in this country of any crime involving moral, turpitude,

UNITED STATES v. SMITH.
422

425

Opinion of the Court.

Upon this question federal courts have reached diverse
views. The cases are cited in the opinion announced below in the present cause.
We accept the view that the word "entry" in the provision of § 19 which directs that "any alien who was convicted, or who admits the commission, prior to entry, of
a felony or other crime or misdemeanor involving moral
turpitude; . . . shall, upon the warrant of the Secretary

of Labor, be taken into custody and deported," includes
any coming of an alien from a foreign country into the
United States whether such coming be the first or any
subsequent one. And this requires affirmance of the challenged judgment.
The power of Congress to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which aliens may enter or remain -in the
United States is no longer open to serious question. Turner v. Williams, 194 U.S. 279; Low Wah Suey v. Backus,
225 U.S. 460, 468; Bugajewitz v. Adams, 228 U.S. 585,
591.
That the second coming of an alien from a foreign
country into the United States is an entry within the
usual acceptation of that word is clear enough from Lewis
v. Frick, 233 U.S. 291; Claussen v. Day, 279 U.S. 398.
An examination of the Immigratioh Act of 1917, we
think, reveals nothing sufficient to indicate that Congress
did not intend the word "entry" in § 19 should have its
ordinary meaning. Aliens who have committed crimes
while permitted to remain here may be decidedly more
objectionable than persons who have transgressed laws of
another country.
committed at any time after entry; . .. any alien who was convicted, or who admits the commission, prior to entry, of a felony or
other crime or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; at any time
within three years after entry, any alien . . . who enters without
inspection, shall, upon the warrant of the Secretary of Labor, be
taken into custody and deported: .

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

289 US.

It may be true that if Volpe had remained within the
United States, he could not have been expelled because
of his conviction of crime in 1925, more than five years
after his original entry; but it does not follow that after
he voluntarily departed he had the right of reentry. In
sufficiently plain language Congress has declared to the
contrary.
With hesitation, the Solicitor General suggested here
that possibly the cause had abated, since S. D. Smith is
no longer District Director of Immigration at Chicago,
where he formerly held the petitioner in custody. The
.record indicates that Smith has continued to be an officer
in the Department of Labor, although not presently stationed at Chicago. So far as we are advised, under existing regulations, he may carry into effect the order of deportation. Moreover, the cause was permitted to Proceed
without question, as instituted, long after Smith is said
to have left Chicago; and the petitioner insists that no.
cause has been shown for abatement. The point, we
think, lacks merit.
The judgment is

Affirmed.
NATIONAL SURETY CO.

ET AL.

v. CORIELL ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 8. Argued .December 15, 1932.-Decided May 22, 1933.
1. It is improper for the District Court in a receivership case to pass
upon the wisdom and fairness of a plan of reorganization and the
rights of non-assenting creditors, without definite, detailed- and
authentic information. Held that a decree of approval, made without any trustworthy appraisal of assets, or account showing the
result of recent operations of the business; without an accurate
determination of the number of creditors, the amounts of their re-

