VERMONT v. NEW HAMPSHIRE.

593

Syllabus.

VERMONT v. NEW HAMPSHIRE.
HEARING UPON EXCEPTIONS TO REPORT OF THE SPECIAL
MASTER.
No. 2, Original.

Argued April 20, 21, 1933.-Decided May 29, 1933.

1. The boundary between the States of Vermont and New Hampshire is the low-water mark, on the western side of the Connecticut
River,-not the top or westerly margin of the bank as claimed by
New Hampshire; and the low-water mark for this purpose is
taken to be (as found by the Special Master and not challenged by
the parties) the line to which the river recedes at its lowest stage,
,without reference to extreme droughts. Pp. 596, 619.
2. Vermont's failure to file exceptions to the Special Master's report,
eliminates her claim to the thread of the channel, which the master
rejected. P. 597.
3. In determining the boundary the Court considers the history of
the subject from the creation of New York and New Hampshire
as adjoining Royal Provinces to the admission of Vermont into
the Union as an independent State, and also the subsequent acts
and claims of Vermont and New Hampshire respecting the subject
down to the present time, and finds and decides:
(1) That the boundary of New York and New Hampshire
originally was the river on its westerly side, and not a line on the
bank above low water. P. 598.
(2) That the Order-in-Council of July 20, 1764, declaring the
boundary between New York and New Hampshire to be "the
western banks of the River Connecticut" reaffirmed the original
river boundary. P. 600.
. (3) In view of the nature of the controversy before the King-inCouncil, which was settled by this Order-a dispute between the
two Provinces, not as to whether the line dividing their respective
jurisdictions ran higher or lower on the Connecticut River bank,
but as to whether it was located near the Hudson River, as in the
cases of Connecticut and Massachusetts,--there is no ground to
suppose that a shifting of the line from low-water to the top of
the bank of the Connecticut was the intent of the Order. P. 600.
(4) The presumption is against any intention to cut off New
York from access to the river. Pp. 603, 605.
15450-33-

38

594

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

289 U.S.

(6) In this respect, the Order, like a treaty or grant fixing the
boundary between two States, is to be construed with a view to
public convenience and avoidance of controversy. P. 606.
(6) Decisions of this Court establishing a "bank" boundary in
other circumstances, held inapplicable. P. 604.
(7) This construction of the Order-in-Council is confirmed by
the construction put upon it subsequently by the Governors of the
two Provinces and the Lords of Trade. P. 603.
(8) That the east boundary of Vermont, upon her admission as
a State of the Union in 1791, was the low-water mark of the Connecticut River, and not on the bank above the shore, is equally
manifest whether the State be considered as carved out of New
York territory pursuant to the formal consent given by that State,
or as an independent revolutionary State set up by the inhabitants
of the "New Hampshire Grants "; for, in the one case, she took
the New York boundary declared by the Order-in-Council of 1764;
and in the other case that same boundary was established by conditions laid down by Congress in 1781, during the negotiations for
statehood, and by Vermont's assent thereto and New Hampshire's
acquiescence. Pp. 606, 608.
(9) The acceptance by the Vermont Legislature on February 22,
1782, of the resolutions of Congress oZ August 20, 21, 1781, requiring the relinquishment by the inhabitants of Vermont of "all demands of lands or jurisdiction on the east side of, the west bank of
the Connecticut River," operated to relinquish any claim on the
part of Vermont to jurisdiction extending to the thread of the
river in the territory of the New Hampshire Grants as defined by
their declaration of independence; also to confirm the eastern
boundary of Vermont as a boundary extending to the river as it
had been fixed by the Order-in-Council of 1764. P. 611.
(10) In the negotiations with Congress the controversy respecting this boundary was whether Vermont had extended her boundary
eastward beyond the line fixed by the Order-in-Council. It is not
to be supposed that her acceptance of the "west bank" was intended to relinquish more than the resolutions of Congress, supra,
required. P. 612.
(11) Considerations of practical convenience fortify the conclusion that Vermont, upon her admission as a State, took a boundary
to normal low-water mark. P. 612.
(12) The conclusion here reached as to the construction of the
Order-in-Council and the resolution of Congress under which Vermont was admitted to statehood finds support in the practical con-

VERMONT v. NEW HAMPSHIRE.
593

Opinion of the Court.

struction given by both States to the boundary, thus defined, in the
long continued failure of New Hampshire to assert any dominion
over the west bank of the river, and in her long acquiescence in

the dominion asserted there by Vermont. P. 613.
(13) Further important confirmation is found in the location of

a monument at low-water mark, fixing the southeast corner of Vermont and the southwest corner of New Hampshire, under authority
from the two States. P. 616.

The bill in this boundary suit was filed on December 18,
1915, and the answer on July 11, 1916. There were several amendments of the pleadings, some before and some
after issue joined. On October 13, 1930, Edmund F.
Trabue, Esquire, of Kentucky, was appointed Special
Master. (282 U.S. 796.) His report was filed on February 6, 1933. The case was heard upon exceptions to
the report taken by New Hampshire.

Mr. Warren R. Austin, with whom Messrs. Lawrence
C. Jones, Attorney General of Vermont, and Warren R.
Austin, Jr., were on the brief, for plaintiff.

Mr. Charles E. Hughes, Jr., with whom Messrs. Francis
W. Johnston, Attorney General of New Hampshire,

Jeremy R. Waldron, John Fletcher Caskey, and Charles
A. Wallace were on the brief, for defendant.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This is an original suit, brought by the State of Vermont December 18, 1915, for the determination of the
boundary line between that state and the State of New
Hampshire. By the amended bill of complaint Vermont
alleged that the boundary is " the thread of the channel"
of the Connecticut River for its entire course, except for
that part from the northerly limits of the town of Vernon,
Vermont, south to the Massachusetts line where it " is
the west bank of Connecticut River at low-water mark."
In the original bill of complaint there was an alternative

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

claim that if this Court should be of the opinion that
the boundary is not the thread, but is "the west bank
of the Connecticut River," then, "such line is the westerly edge of the waters of the Connecticut River at its
average and mean stage during the entire year without
reference to the extraordinary freshets or extreme
droughts." New Hampshire, by its amended answer, asserts that the boundary is "at the top or westerly margin of the westerly bank of the Connecticut River and
the east branch thereof."
Vermont's claim of a boundary at the thread of the
channel was based upon the following propositions:
Township grants made by the Governor of the Province
of New Hampshire, by royal authority, between 1741 and
1764, on the west side of the Connecticut River in the
territory now Vermont, were bounded by the river, which
was non-tidal, and carried title to its thread by virtue of
the common law of England; an order of the King-inCouncil of July 20, 1764, fixinj the boundary between
the Provinceq of New York and New Hanpshire at the
"western banks of the River Connecticut," thus including the territory now Vermont in the Province of New
York, was nullified by the successful revolution of the
inhabitants of the New Hampshire Grants; henoe the
eastern boundary of the revolutionary state of Verfm. t
was the same as the eastern limits of the township grati t-,
namely, the thread of the river; Vermont was admitted
to the Union as a sovereign independent state with hei
boundaries those established by her revolution. Hpc
eastern boundary was therefore the thread of the
Connecticut River.
The Special Master sustained all these contentions except the last one. With respect to it he found that Vermont had, by resolution of her legislature of February
22, 1782, relinquished any claim to jurisdiction east of
the west side of the river, at low-water mark, in conform-

VERMONT v. NEW HAMPSHIRE.
Opinion of the Court.
ity to a Congressional resolution of August 20, 21, 1781
prescribing terms upon which Congress would consider
the admission of Vermont to the Union. In addition to
the findings already indicated the Special Master also
concluded that the order of the King-in-Council of July
20, 1764, even if not rendered ineffective by the revolution
of Vermont, was not intended to recognize any rights of
New Hampshire west of the west side of the river at low
water; that Vermont's claim of a boundary at the thread
"of the river would be defeated by her acquiescence in New
Hampshire's exercise of dominion over the waters of the
river even if it had not been relinquished by acceptance of
the resolutions of Congress of August, 1781, and finally
that by practical construction of the two states by long
usage and acquiescence, the boundary of Vermont was
fixed at the low-water mark on the west side of the river.
Accordingly the Special Master found that:
"The eastern boundary of the State of Vermont upon
her admission to the Union was that stated in the resolutions of Congress of August 20, and 21, 1781, and in the
resolution of the Vermont legislature of February 22, 1782,
and this I find to be the low-water mark on the west side
of the Connecticut River."
The line of low-water mark thus specified was further defined as " the point to which the river recedes at its lowest
stage without reference to extreme droughts," and no exception has been taken to this definition.
Vermont's claim of a boundary to the thread of the
channel is no longer before us as New Hampshire alone
has filed exceptions to the report of the Special Master.
Those exceptions narrow the issue to the single question
whether the boundary line is at low-water mark on the
west side of the river as the Master found or at the top
or westerly margin of the bank as contended by New
Hampshire; in other words, whether New Hampshire acquired and retained jurisdiction of a narrow ribbon of land

598

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 US.

of varying width on the west side of the Connecticut
River, extending along the entire eastern boundary of
Vermont, which at some stages of the river is submerged
and at others left uncovered by the water. In support of
this contention New Hampshire relies on the order of
the King-in-Council of 1764, which it is argued established
the eastern boundary of Vermont at the west bank of the
Connecticut River, not at low-water mark, but at the top
of the bank or the line upon it where vegetation ceases.
The Order-in-Council must be considered in the light
of the colonial history out of which it grew, which is
elaborately reviewed in the Special Master's report. The'
royal Province of New Hampshire was established on September 18, 1679, by commission of Charles II, establishing
the president and council of that province. On July 3,
1741, Benning Wentworth was appointed Governor by
George II. His commission, like that later issued to him
by George III in 1760, defined the western boundary of
the province only by the provisicin that its south line and
its north line should extend westward "till it meets with
our other governments." The government on the west
of New Hampshire was the Province of New York, originating in the grant of June 29, 1674, by Charles II to his
brother James, Duke of York, which included "all the
lands from the west side of Connecticut river to the east
side of Delaware Bay." This grant merged in the Crown
when James, Duke of York, became King James II in
1685.
Despite the language of the New York grant fixing its
eastern boundary as the west side of the Connecticut
River, that province did not assert jurisdiction as far east
as the Connecticut River at any point south of the New
Hampshire line. The western boundary of the Province
of Connecticut was fixed about 1684 with the acquiescence
of New York as a line, approximately north and south,
twenty miles east of the Hudson River, and before 1750

VERMONT v. NEW HAMPSHIRE.
593

Opinion of the Court.

Massachusetts had settled westerly to about the same line
and New York had made no attempt to disturb those
settlements.
Governor Wentworth, construing his commission as extending the Province of New Hampshire westwardly at
least to this line east of the Hudson River, acting under
authority of a royal commission, made, from about 1752
to 1764, numerous grants of townships in the territory
west of the Connecticut River, now a part of Vermont.
Each of these grants comprised a territory six miles square
and conferred on the inhabitants authority to organize
town gbvernments. Twenty-three of the towns were
adjacent to the Connecticut River, and with the exception of Vernon, which extended across the river at the
southeastern corner of the present State of Vermont, the
boundary line of these townships was described expressly
or by implication as extending to or beginning at a tree or
other designated monument standing on the westerly side
or the west bank of the river and extending "thence up
the river" or "thence down the river." At the time of
these grants the river was extensively used by the inhabitants on both sides for hunting and fishing.
The Special Master, upon an exhaustive examination
of the evidence and the law, concluded that these boundaries were on the river and, with the exception of the
town of Vernon, carried the boundary of the townships
to the thread of the river. Although this conclusion is
challenged by 'the exceptions filed in behalf of New
Hampshire, it is not denied that the boundary in the description of the New Hampshire township grants carried
at least to the river.
In 1749, before the township grants before us were
made, a controversy had arisen between the Royal Governors of New Hampshire and New York over their
respective authority to make grants in the territory between the Hudson and Connecticut rivers. Although sus-

600

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 Us.

pended during the French and Indian wars, the conflict
was renewed at the end of 1763. and in 1764 was submitted to the King-in-Council for determination. New
York asserted that under the grant to the Duke of York,
that province included "all the lands from the west side
of Connecticut River." New Hampshire claimed that its
boundary extended to the line approximately twenty
miles east of the Hudson corresponding roughly to a
prolongation northerly of the westerly boundaries of
Massachusetts and Connecticut. The controversy was
referred to the Lords of Trade, who made their report'
of July 10, 1764. Their recommendation was 9pproved
by the order of the King-in-Council, on July 20, 1764,
which fixed the boundary in the following language:
"His Majesty,

.

..

doth accordingly, hereby order

and declare the western banks of the River Connecticut, from where it enters the Province of the Massachusetts Bay, as far north as the forty-fifth degree of
northern latitude, to be the boindary line between the
said two Provinces of New Hampshire and New York."
As it is conceded that the King-in-Council had authority to fix the boundary between the two royal provinces, the meaning and effect of the order of 1764, must
first be considered. The Special Master concluded that
the purpose and effect of the order were to leave undisturbed the boundary of New York as established by the
grant to the Duke of York of all the lands from the west
side of the Connecticut River; that the boundary fixed
was therefore at the river and not at some point upon
its bank. We think this conclusion correct.
New Hampshire contends th t the designation of the
"western banks" of the river as the boundary established
a "bank" boundary above low-water mark as distinguished from one upon the river which admittedly would
carry at least to low water. But the language of the
order was adopted to express a judgment upon conflicting

VERMONT v. NEW HAMPSHIRE.
593

Opinion of the Court.

claims, each clearly defined, neither of which involved
the question whether the line was to be drawn at low water
or at some point above. New York, relying on the Duke
of York's grant, contended that its jurisdiction extended
to the Connecticut River and not, as New Hampshire
argued, to the line about twenty miles east of the Hudson,
continuing that which marked the boundary of Massachusetts and Connecticut. In the entire history of the
controversy there appears to have been no suggestion that
the jurisdiction of New York would not extend to the
Connecticut River if it were found to extend east of the
western boundary of Connecticut and Massachusetts.
Thus the written statement of January 20, 1764, presenting the claims of New York to the Lords of Trade stated
that "This Province is bounded eastward by Connecticut River" and the Lords of Trade in their report informed the Crown that "Your Majesty's Lieutenant Governor of New York contends that
. 'the Province
of New York does, both by the words and construction
of the grant to the Duke of York, extend eastward as far
as Connecticut River.'" This was the claim in favor of
which the Lords of Trade decided.' True, they recom'In the Report of the Lords of Trade of 1764 the arguments said to
have been advanced by the Governor of New York in support of his
boundary claim are, in addition to the language of the Duke of York's
Grant, that "the River Connecticut is in all respects the most certain
and proper boundary; that it will be more convenient that the lands
to the Westward of that river should be included in New York, because Hudson's River being navigable by Vessels of considerable
Burthen to Albany, the Trade of that part of the Country will probably center there, to which place the Transportation or Carriage will
be much easier, than to the Ports of New Hampshire, and where the
Inhabitants are likely to meet with a better Market for their produce;
that as the Quit Rent in New .Hampshire is but one shilling the hundred Acres, and that of New York, two shillings and six pence, the
revenue to your Majesty, if the Lands are settled under New York,
will be greater than if granted under New Hampshire; and that there
is another Circumstance of great weight at this Juncture, and operat-

602

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

mended that "The western banks of the River Connecticut from where it enters the Province of the Massachusetts Bay as far north as the forty-fifth degree of northern
latitude should be declared to be the boundary line between the two Provinces." But the evidence is conclusive that there was no thought that the designation of
the banks as the boundary would have a different effect
than the designation of the river itself. A communication
from the Lords of Trade to Lieutenant Governor Colden
of New York with respect to the boundary dispute, July13, 1764, three days after their report to the Crown, advised him that "as the reasons you assign for making

Connecticut River the boundary line between the two
provinces appear to us to have great weight, we have
adopted and recommended that proposition." In adopting the reference to the banks of the river contained in
the recommendation of the Lords of Trade the Order-inCouncil did not give it any different meaning.'
ing in favor of this proposition, which is, that a great number of
reduced Officers have located their Claims to Lands under Your
Majesty's Proclamation in this part of the Country, and were willing
to take out Giants for the same under the Province of New York,
but absolutely decline any application to the Government of New
Hampshire." The Lords of Trade advised that these "arguments
urged by the Lieutenant Governor of New York in support of his
proposition, appear to us to have great weight, if not absolutely to
decide upon the Question; and the only probable inconvenience, that
is stated to arise from making the River Connecticut' the boundary
line between the two Provinces, is the effect which the limitation of
New Hampshire, to narrower Limits than is contended for, may have
to disable them from making such a provision for its establishment as
may be necessary to support it as a separate Government; But as we
humbly apprehend, that the great extent of this Province to the
Northward leaves sufficient room for much further improvement and
Settlement, this objection does not appear to us to be of sufficient
weight to counterbalance the convenience and advantage that seems
to attend the other proposition;
.
'Compare the Proclamation of Lt.-Gov. Colden of New York of
December 28, 1763 declaring "that the province of New York is

VERMONT v. NEW HAMPSHIRE.
593

Opinion of the Court.

Subsequent events attest the validity of this conclusion. After the receipt of the order by the Governors of
New Hampshire and New York, and the publication of
its terms, it was interpreted by three governors of New
York, Moore, the Earl of Dunmore and Tryon, ' to establish the river as the eastern boundary of the province
and, except for a petition of New Hampshire to the
Crown in 1771 for a rescission of the order, the royal
governments of both provinces recognized its validity up
to the time of the revolution. In reporting to the Crown
December 3, 1772, upon New Hampshire's petition for
rescission, the Lords of Trade recommended adherence
to "those principles of true policy and sound wisdom
which appear to have dictated the proposition of making
the River Connecticut the boundary between the two
colonies." And the response of the Governor of New
Hampshire to a questionnaire sent out by the Lords of
Trade in 1774, recited that ".The River Connecticut from
Hinsdale runs through this Province, and is its boundary
"
to the 450 of north latitude. .
. As we have said, New Hampshire admits that 'a boundary on the river or including lands west of the river
would normally carry at least to low-water mark. -andly's Lessee v. Anthony, 5 Wheat. 374; Thomas v. Hatch,
3 Sumner 170; see Oklahoma v. Texas, 260 U.S. 606, 27;
Massachusetts v. New York, 271 U.S. 65, 93. But the
contends, relying upon the rule said to have been laid
down in Howard v. Ingersoll, 13 How. 381, and followed
bounded to the eastward by the River Connecticut" and commanding
"all judges, justices and other civil officers within the same, to continue to exercise jurisdiction in their respective functions as far as to
the banks of Connecticut River, the undoubted eastern limits of that
part of the province of New York, notwithstanding any contrariety of
jurisdiction claimed by the Government of New Hampshire."
"See letters of Governor Moore'to the Earl of Shelbourne, June 9,
1767, the Earl of Dunmore to the Earl of Hillsborough, July 20, 1764,
Governor Tryon to the Rev. Mr. Dewey, May 19, 1772.

604

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

280 U.S.

in Oklahoma v. Texas, supra, that the designation of the
banks of the river as the boundary rather than the river
itself necessarily implies that the line is higher upon the
bank than low-water mark, stated in brief .and argument
to be the place where vegetation ceases.
Obviously the meaning of the words of the order could
not be established by a rule of law declared long after its
promulgation; and nothing in the decisions relied upon by
New Hampshire admonishes us to disregard that meaning
when, as here, it is clearly established. In the Ingersoll
case the court held that lands ceded by Georgia to the
United States, situated "west of a line beginning on the
western bank of the Chattahoochie River" and "running
.. . along the western bank thereof" were bounded
by a line governed by the "permanent fast land bank"
and not by low-water mark. The court emphasized the
fact that uncertainty which might be created by the use
of the word bank alone, as in the order before us, was
removed by the additional phrase running "along the
bank" which was thought to have a popular significance
excluding "the idea that a line was to be traced at the
edge of the water as that may be at one or another time
or at low water or at the lowest low water." (pp. 415,
417.) See also Alabama v. Georgia, 23 How. 505. Oklahoma v. Texas, supra, held that a treaty, interpreted to
designate a boundary "along the south bank" of the Red
River, (260 U.S. pp. 624, 626), fixed the line at a point
4
on and along the bank rather than at low-water mark.
'Upon the argument of the present case it was conceded that the
flow of the Connecticut River, always of substantial volume, is confined by precipitous banks extending to or near the water at all normal
stages of the river, except for relatively small stretches where the
banks are low and overflowed at high water. It does not appear that
there are flats of any substantial area lying between the precipitous
banks and the water at its lowest stage or that the river has shifted its
bed to any material extent at any time. In all these respects the physical characteristics of the Connecticut River differ from those of the
Red River, described in Oklahoma v. Texas, supra, 634, 635.

VERMONT v. NEW HAMPSHIRE.
593

,605

Opinion of the Court.

At most the decision may be thought to establish a rule
of interpretation which must govern in the absence of
affirmative evidence that the language used was intended
to have a different meaning, for the Court was careful to
say that the conclusion reached "has full confirmation in
available historical data respecting the negotiations which
attended the framing and signing of the treaty." (p. 632.)
Here, it is apparent on the face of the documents that the
language of the order was not used with the intention of
fixing a line upon the bank above low-water mark; and
the history of the controversy clearly establishes that the
intention of the order was to confirm and not to change
the boundary as fixed by the grant to the Duke of York of
"all the landson the west side of Connecticut River."
We cannot disregard this history without disregarding
decisions of this Court, which establish either expressly
or by example that in the interpretation of a treaty or
grant between two states for the settlement of boundary
dispute the nature and history of the controversy must
be considered. Massachusetts v. New York, supra; Martin v. Waddell, 16 Pet. 367, 411. Upon considerations of
this nature we held in Massachusettsv. New York, supra,
that the words "shore" and "lake" Used in the treaty
of Hartford of 1786 in defining the boundary of New York
and Massachusetts, were synonymous and the boundary
upon the shore was fixed at low-water mark on Lake
Ontario.
Moreover, in the present case, it must be remembered
that the governors of New Hampshire and New York
were contesting each other's authority to grant land west
of the Connecticut River and jurisdiction over the lands
already granted there. It would be difficult to conclude
that in settling that dispute it was intended to deny to
New York or the grantees lawful access to the river at
any of its usual seasonal states; and inasmuch as there
are no public rights in the shores of non-tidal waters,

606

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

the abutting owner, on the view insisted upon by New
Hampshire, could not cross the bank to the water without trespass. Compare Massachusetts v. New York,
supra, 93. Like a treaty or grant fixing the. boundary between states the Order-in-Council is to be construed
"with a view to public convenience and the avoidance
of controversy." Handly's Lessee v. Anthony, supra,
383. As was said by Chief Justice Marshall in Handly's
Lessee v. Anthony, supra, 380:
"Even when a State retains its dominion over a river
which constitutes the boundary between itself and another State, it would be extremely inconvenient to extend its dominion over the land on the other side, which
was left bare by the receding of the water. And this inconvenience is not less where the fising and falling is
annual, than where it is diurnal. Wherever the river is a
boundary between States, it is the main, the permanent
river, which constitutes. the boundary; and the mind will
find itself embarrassed with insurmountable difficulty in
attempting to draw any other line than the low water
mark."
It is true that a different rule has been applied in the
case of grants bounded by tidal waters, which carry only to
high-water mark. Shively v. Bowlby, 152 U.S. 1; Maryland v. West Va.,.217 U.S. 577; Smoot Sand& Gravel Corp.
v. Washington Airport, 283 U.S. 348. But as was pointed.
out in Massachusetts v. New York, supra, 93, such grants,
since they carry to tidal water, and since the public has
rights in the foreshore, do not deny access to the sea, and
even grants of this class may, by construction, be deemed
to carry to low-water mark where the surrounding circumstances show that such was the boundary intended.
Our conclusion as to the meaning and effect of the
Order-in-Council of 1764 would be decisive of the boundary of Vermont upon her admission to the Union were it
not for the history of Vermont as a revolutionary govern-

VERMONT v. NEW HAMPSHIRE.
593

Opinion of the Court.

ment and the consequent uncertainty whether she was
admitted under the second clause of Article IV, § 3, of
the Constitution as a new state formed out of the territory of New York, with her boundary accordingly determined by that of New York, or whether she was admitted
under the first clause of Article IV, § 3, as an independent revolutionary state with self-constituted boundaries.
The Special Master found that attempts by the New
York authorities after 1764 to interfere with the possession of the holders of the New Hampshire Grants made
prior to the Order-in-Council led to protest and forcible
resistance which assumed the proportions of a revolutionary movement. This movement culminated in 1777
in the Declaration of Independence by the towns comprising the New Hampshire Grants on both sides of the
Green Mountains, which proclaimed that the jurisdiction granted by the Crown "to New York government
dver the people of the New Hampshire Grants is totally
dissolved" and that a free and independent government
is set up within the territory now Vermont, bounded
"east on Connecticut River

.

.

.

as far as the New

Hampshire Grants extends." From that time until the
admission of Vermont into the Union in 1791 an independent government was maintained with defined geographical limits extending on the east to the Connecticut
River. In view of these facts the Special Master concluded that the Order-in-Council was nullified by successful revolution, and Vermont was admitted as an independent state with self-constituted boundaries. But he
also. found, as we have said, that Vermont's claims of
jurisdiction to the thread of the river were restricted
to the low-water mark on the western side by resolutions
of Congress of August 20, 21, 1781, and their acceptance
by resolution of the Vermont Legislature, February 22,
1782. In addition, he found that Vermont was not recognized as an independent state by Congress either under

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

the Articles of Confederation or under the Constitution, but that her independence was recognized by New
Hampshire in 1777, by Massachusetts in 1781, and by
New York in 1790. The latter finding is contested by
New Hampshire as is his conclusion of law that even if
Vermont was not recognized as an independent state
prior to her admission to the Union, her status as a
revolutionary state may be determined by this Court
where necessary to the settlement of a boundary dispute
between two states.
Under the circumstances of the present case the questions raised by these conclusions of the Special Master
and the contentions of New Hampshire with respect to
them need not be decided. For New York, by Commissioners acting under a resolution of her legislature of
March 6, 1790, gave formal consent to the admission of
Vermont into the Union, and if Vermont was admitted
as a state carved out of the territory of New York her
boundaries on the east were those of New York, as fixed
by the Order-in-Council. If admitted as a free and independent state her boundaries were those fixed by her
own declaration of independence as limited by her acceptance of the conditions of the Congressional resolution of August 20, 21, 1781. That boundary we conclude
was also one carrying to the river and to low-water mark.
Following Vermont's declaration of independence, and
until her admission to statehood in 1791 she, from time to
time, sent representatives to Congress seeking admission
to the Union and published to the world numerous appeals, vindications and arguments to develop public
opinion in favor of her admission. During that period
New York, at times, made formal assertion of jurisdiction
over the territory now Vermont. A committee report to
the New Hampshire legislature of April 2, 1779, adopted
by the legislature June 24, recommended that New Hampshire make claim to the whole of the New Hampshire

VERMONT v. NEW HAMPSHIRE.
593

Opinion of the Court.

Grants, with the qualification that if the Continental
Congress should recognize Vermont as an independent
state New Hampshire would acquiesce and until Congress
settled the dispute would exercise jurisdiction "as far
west as the western banks of Connecticut River and no
further." Vermont, on her part, attempted to annex
towns in New Hampshire on the east side of the river.
After various efforts to enlist the interest of the Continental Congress in a settlement of the controversy, the
Vermont legislature on June 22, 1781, adopted a report
of a committee recommending the appointment of dele.
gates to propose to Congress and receive from it terms
for a union with the United States. The matter was also
brought to the attention of Congress by a letter from the
President of New Hampshire of June 30, 1781.
On July 31, a committee of Congress to which the matter had been referred, recommended that Congress guaranty to New York and New Hampshire their respective
territory lying outside the New Hampshire Grants "in
case the said states shall relinquish their respective claims
to said districts called the New Hampshire Grants or the
State of Vermont, bounded east by Connecticut
River

.

..

. formerly granted by the Governor of New

Hampshire,;' a recommendation which was renewed in a
further report of August 2. Congress, by resolution of
August 7, reciting that New Hampshire and New York
have submitted to it the decision of the dispute§ between
them and "the people inhabiting the New Hampshire
Grants on the west side of Connecticut River called the
State of Vermont, concerning their respective claims of
jurisdiction over the said territory" and that the parties
"have been heard thereon," declared that in case Congress should recognize the independence of the people of
Vermont, it would "consider all the lands belonging to
New Hampshire and New York respectively without the
limits of Vermont aforesaid, as coming within the mutual
154o0-83-39

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

guaranty of territory contained in the Articles of Confederation." And, in pursuance -of the same resolution,
Congress, on August 8, appointed a committee of five to
confer with persons representing the New Hampshire
Grants "on the west side of Connecticut River," with
respect to their claim to be an independent state and the
terms upon which they should be admitted to the Union,
in case Congress should recognize their independence.
On August 18, Vermont's representatives proposed that
Vermont be recognized as an independent state with a
boundary extending eastward "to the west bank of the
Connecticut River; thence up the river as it tends to the
45th degree of north latitude." The same day, answering
written interrogatories of the Committee of Congress, they
stated that the boundaries of Vermont specified in their
proposal were .the same as those contained in the resolution of Congress of August 7th, in which the New Haiipshire Grants were described as being "on the west side of
Connecticut River."
The Congressional resolutions of August 20, 21, on
which the Special Master relied, provided, in final form,
"that it be an indispensible preliminary to the recognition of the independence of the people inhabiting the
territory called Vermont, and their admission into the
federal union, that they explicitly relinquish all demands
of lands or jurisdiction on the east side of the west bank
of Connecticut River.
. ."
On February 19, 1782,
the Vermont Assembly, in Committee of the Whole, after
considering the resolutions of Congress of August 7, 20
and 21, 1781, recommended that the Assembly of the
State "pass resolutions, declaring their acquiescence in,
and accession to, the determination made by Congress of
the said boundary lines, between the states of New Hampshire and New York, respectively, and this state, as they
are, in said resolutions, defined and described, and also, expressly relinquishing all claim to and jurisdiction of, and

VERMONT v. NEW HAMPSHIRE.
593

Opinion of the Court

over, the said districts of territory without said boundary
lines." On February 22, 1782, the Legislature, after reciting the quoted recommendation of the Committee of the
Whole, resolved that it be complied with and "that the
west bank of Connecticut River" and a specified boundary on the New York side of the state "shall be considered
as the east and west boundaries of this state "; any claim
to jurisdiction over all territory "without said boundary
lines" was formally relinquished. On April 17, 1782, a
committee of Congress to which the matter had been submitted reported that the Congressional resolutions of the
20th and 21st of August had been fully complied with,
and recommended that the territory of Vermont as
defined in these resolutions be recognized and admitted
to the Union, as a free and independent state.
But action by Congress was postponed and no further
progress was made towards the admission of Vermont
until July 16, 1789, when the New York legislature passed
an act; reaffirmed March 6, 1790, authorizing the appointment of commissioners with power to declare, upon such
terms as they might think proper, the consent of New
York to her admission. Vermont in turn appointed commissioxiers to treat with the representatives of New York.
Their negQtiations resulted in agreement between the two
states as to the eastern boundary of New York and payment by Vermont to New York of the sum of $30,000 for
the relinquishment of all claims of sovereignty by New
York, and for the confirmation of the New Hampshire
township grants. In 1791 the matter of admission was
again presented to Congress by commissioners selected for
the purpose under resolution of the Vermont legislature
of January 20, 1791, and the admission of Vermont followed by Act of Congress of February 18, 1791.
The acceptance by the Vermont Legislature on February 22, 1782, of the resolutions of Congress of August 20,
21, 1781, requiring the relinquishment by the iihabitants

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

of Vermont of "all demands of lands or jurisdiction on
the east side of the west bank of Connecticut River," operated to relinquish any claim on the part of Vermont to
jurisdiction to the thread of the river in the territory of
the New Hampshire Grants as defined by their declaration of independence. We think it also operated to confirm the eastern boundary of Vermont as a boundary extending to the river as it had been fixed by the Order-inCouncil of 1764. It is true that the resolution of acceptance of the Vermont Legislature named "the west bank of
Connecticut River" as the boundary, but it cannot be supposed that it was intended by this language to relinquish
any greater jurisdiction than Congress required Vermont
to surrender-that "on the east side of the west bank."
And the terms of the Congressional resolution cannot be
interpreted without regard to the previous negotiations
including the proposal of the Vermont representatives of
1781 designating the west bank as the boundary and their
statement of the same date that the boundary intended
was the same as that contained in the Congressional resolution of August 7th in which the New Hampshire Grants
were described as being "on the west side" of the river.
When the negotiations are considered as a whole, the conclusion is irresistible that the sole controversy with respect to the boundary line was whether Vermont had extended her boundary eastward beyond the line at the
river established less than a generation earlier " by the
Order-in-Council of 1764. Congress required the relinquishment of any claims to such an extension but we cannot say that it required more without ignoring the language of the negotiations as well as the history of the
Order-in-Council, already detailed. Moreover, the con'The Order-rn-Council was specifically referred to in the resolution
of Congress of August 7, as having "superseded the pretensions of
New Hampshire in favor of New. York" and having been "assented
to on part of the former."

VERMONT v. NEW HAMPSHIRE.
593

.613

Opinion of the Court.

siderations of practical convenience which fortify the conclusion that the boundary fixed by the order carried to the
river lead to the like conclusion that the boundary intended by the resolutions of Congress and of the Vermont
Legislature to be that of Vermont upon her admission into
the Union, was a boundary on the river carrying to normal
low-water mark.
New Hampshire does not appear to have assented
formally to the resolutions of Congress of August 20, 21,
1781, but she was represented by agents before the Congressional Committee on whose reports of July 31 and
August 2, the*resolution was, in part, based. Both -they
and the New Hampshire representatives in Congress
were -familiar with the terms 6f the resolutions and could
not have been unaware of the fact that in all the formal
representations made to Congress in behalf of Vermont
and in the various reports and resolutions of committees
and the resolutions of Congress itself, the eastern boundary of Vermont was described interchangeably as the west
side of the Connecticut RiVer or- as not extending east
.of the west banks of the river. Although these were
public acts of notoriety, Ne* Hampkhire does not appear
ever to have made any objection to these definitions of
the boundary line.
The conclusion we have reached as to the correct construction of the Order-in-Council of 1764 and the resolution of Congress under which Vermont was admitted to
statehood finds support in the practical construction given
by both states to the boundary, thus defined, in the long
continued failure of.. New Hampshire to assert any dominion over the west bank of the river, and in her long

acquiescence in the dominion asserted there by Vermont.
See Michigan v. Wisconsin, 270 U.S. 295, 308; Indiana v.
Kentucky, 136 U.S. 479, 509, 511; Maryland v. We8t
Virginia, 217 U.S. 1, 17; Rhode lsland v. Massachusetts,
4 Low. 591, 639. Vermont, it is.true, made several

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

attempts to revive its ancient claim to dominion over
the river to its thread, by invitations to New Hampshire
to join in the appointment of commissioners to settle the
boundary (Resolution of Vermont Legislature of November 6, 1792, as amended October 20, 1794; Resolution of
October 25, 1830; Resolution of November 6, 1830).
None of these efforts except the last appears to have
provoked any formal action in behalf of New Hampshire,
but in response to the resolution of November 6, :1830,
the New Hampshire Legislature- adopted a resolution of
July 1, 1831, declining to appoint commissioners as requested, and declaring that no doubt had 'hitherto been
entertained or suggested in relation to the boundary and
that "the river Connecticut for the whole extent of the
line between the tWo states " was "conceded to be within
the limits and. exclusive jurisdiction of the State of New
Hampshire.," No jurisdiction over the west bank was
asserted.
A large amount of evidence, thought to have some bearing on the practical construction given to the boundary
by the two states, has been introduced in the present suit.
Most of it, when examined in detail, is of such slight
weight and so inconclusive as to make unnecessary any
extensive review of it here. Of some, but by no means
controlling significance, are instances of action by towns
in New Hampshire recognizing low-water mark on the
west bank as the boundary of the towns and of the state,'
and numerous deeds or other formal documents introduced in evidence affecting titles in each of the towns
on the west bank of the river by which the property conveyed was extended to the river or included the privilege
'Authorization of the town of Stratford, New Hampshire, October 1,
1893, for laying out a highway between Stratford and Bloomfield, Vermont; Contract of April 24, 1896, between Lyme, New Hampshire, and
Thetford, Vermont, for the erection of a bridge across the river between the two towns.

VERMONT v. NEW HAMPSHIRE.
593

615

Opinion of the Court.

of the use of the water. In the absence of evidence of
like character showing the assertion of title or jurisdic-

tion in New Hampshire above the low-water line, these
facts have some persuasive force in showing that inhabitants along the questioned boundary considered that it
extended along the river at low-water mark. See Handly's
Lessee v. Anthony, supra,384.
Voluminous evidence was given with respect to the
history of taxation by the two states of property along
the contested boundary line. New Hampshire taxed
thirty bridges and several dams, all structures extending
across the river, but the tax records give no clear indication of any purpose or intention to tax property above
low-water mark on the west bank or to do more than tax
so much of it as was within the state, without reference
to any defined boundary. Vermont taxed five of the
bridges in varying years, the property taxed being the
"abutment" to the bridge on the Vermont side, or the
"end of the bridge with abutment,". in several instances
a fractional part of a bridge and, in one, the "end of
bridge abutment to low water inark." Only in this last
instance does it definitely appear that the property taxed
extended to low water, although it seems probable that
the abutment or the fractional part of the bridges taxed
may in some other cases have-extended to that point.
Of persuasive force is the fact found by the Special
Master that New Hampshire appears never tQ have asserted definitely any right to tax land or structures located
on the west side of the river before 1909 or 1912. From
1909 to 1927, New Hampshire taxed structures on the west
side of the river belonging to the Connecticut River Power
Company at Vernon, the property of which appears also
to have been taxed by Vermont from 1916 to 1927. While
it may be inferred that the property taxed by both states
included structures on the west bank of the river between
the high and low-water marks, the Special Master did

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

not so find and the fact does not clearly appear. In 1912
the New Hampshire taxing authorities taxed seven corporations, three partnerships and persons unknown having structures located on the Vermont bank of the river
near Bellows Falls, at a valuation in excess of $1,000,000.
The same property appears to have been taxed by Vermont, the record of taxation of some of it belonging to
the Bellows Falls Canal Company, going back to a. date
as early as 1820. It is conceded that the property taxed
included structures extending on-the bank below the line
of vegetation. The Special Master's finding that it was
this " unprecedented" taxation by New Hampshire which
precipitated the present suit is unchallenged. The fact
that in the period of over a century following Vermont's
admission to statehood this is the first well authenticated
instance of an. effort on the part of the New Hampshire
authorities to tax property located on the west bank of
the river is of substantial weight in indicating acquiescence by New Hampshire in the boundary line restricting
her jurisdiction to the river at the low-water mark.
An important practical confirmation of this boundary
line was the location in 1897 of the monument fixing the
southeast corner of Vermont and the southwest comer
of New Hampshire by Commissioners of the States of
Vermont, New Hampshire and Massachusetts, pursuant
to agreement between the three states of October 26, 1894.
By the agreement it was stipulated that: "The southwest corner of the State of New Hampshire and the southeast corner of the State of Vermont on the northerly line
of Massachusetts is at a point on the west bank of the
Connecticut River, about two hundred and sixty-five feet
northerly of the mouth of Little Meadow Brook, so
called, near South Vernon Railroad Station, and directly
east of a point designated on the maps of said engineers
as' Belding'; and that a substantial monument be erected
as near to said corner on the westerly bank of the Con-

VERMONT v. NEW HAMPSHIRE.
593

Opinion of the Court.

necticut River as is practicable, having reference to its
stability." It is shown by the evidence that the point
designated as "Belding" or sometimes as "Belden" was
at a marker located on the line between Massachusetts
and Vermont at the top of the west bank of the river.
The point designated as the corner by the agreement between the states was therefore east of the top of the bank.'
The monumentwas placed in position under the supervision of the commissioners in 1897. Its location was
approved in identical language by the Legislature of Vermont on November 15, 1900, and by the Legislature of
New Hampshire on March 22, 1901, as follows: "The
southwest corner of New Hampshire and southeast corner
of Vermont are marked by a copper bolt in the apex of
a granite block set upon a stone pier and sunk in the
shore of the western bank of the Connecticut River, and
its location designated by a large polished granite monument five hundred and eighty-two feet distant on the
western bank of the river above high water mark." The
Special Master found, upon voluminous testimony that
the granite block marking the boundary was set at the lowwater mark. Its location was described by the person
who erected it, who testified that it was placed in position
at a-point marked by the Commissioners and in accordance with specifications furnished to the witness by them
calling for its erection "at low water line between Vermont and New Hampshire." The monument was buried
eight feet deep with the apex level with the surface of the
sand so as to avoid ice, and other things "running down
the river." It was set at an opportune time when the river
was "very low "; at that time, it was eight feet east of the
shore line, and about ten or twelve feet west of the water
line. This testimony is neither contradicted nor impeached. It iF corroborated by a second witness and by
surrounding cirumstances, as well as by evidence that the
monument is -.'abmerged by the4 water at higher stages of

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

the river. The monument is shown by other testimony to
be seventeen feet below and 36.5 feet east of the Belding
marker referred to in the agreement between the states for
establishing the corner. This marker, as already mentioned, is shown to be located at the top of the bank. It
is so located in New Hampshire's amended answer of October 6, 1930, which alleges that the boundary "from the
ancient 'Belden' bound, so called, on the west bank of
the Connecticut River . . . is at said top or westerly
margin of said [westerly] bank."
The evidence fully supports the conclusion that the
monument was intended to be located at low-water mark
and was in fact placed below the shore line at a point
near the water's edge when the river was "very low."
After the monument had been located the Commissioners of New Hampshire filed their report to the Governor
of the State. The report is undated but refers "to the
action of the commissions and the boundary line and state
corner established by them " as having "received the
legislative sanction of the three states." In this report
the following statement appears:
"The position of the southwest corner of New Hampshire having been agreed upon, as before stated, the commissioners of New Hampshire and Vermont, after careful
deliberation and consultation with experts competent to
advise in such matters, proceeded to mark the same in
this manner. The corner is situate on the west bank of
the Connecticut River, at the line where vegetation ceases,
and it was difficult to place a suitable monument, that
should always be visible, at this precise point, owing to
the great variations in the level of the river at different
seasons of the year, without incurring a large and useless
expense."
New Hampshire places reliance on this language and a
statement in the report of the Vermont Commissioners
of July 26, 1900 that the monument was placed "at a

VERMONT v. NEW HAMPSHIRE.
593

610

Opinion of the Court.

point where the vegetation ceases to grow" as showing
that the monument was erroneously located.
In the entire history of the boundary between these
two states, this appears to be the first occasion when any
reference to the boundary as being "the line where vegetation ceases" is to be found in any official document.
Aside from the location of the monument at such a point
being inconsistent with the statement in the New Hampshire report itself that it was difficult., owing to variation
in the level of the river, to place a suitable monument
there, where it would be visible, this pronouncement of
the Commissioners is plainly insufficient to impeach the
formal declaration of the legislatures of both states that
the monument had been "sunk in the shore of the western bank of the Connecticut River" or the conclusion of
the Special Master that it had been placed at the point
chosen and intended by the Commissioners, and that that
point was at the low-water line.
It is significant, also, that no definite and certain location of the boundary has ever been continuously claimed
by New Hampshire either by her public acts or by her
pleadings in this suit. Her claim as originally stated in
her answer that the boundary was at high-water mark
was changed by amendments to a line at the top of the
west bank. In brief and argument here, the contention is
that the line is to be fixed at the point where vegetation
ceases.
We think that- the practical construction of the boundary by the acts of the two states and of their inhabitants
tends to support our interpretation of the Order-in-Council of 1764, and of the resolutions of Congress and of the
Vermont legislature, preceding the admission of Vermont
to the Union. We conclude that the true boundary is at
the low-water mark on the western side of the Connecticut
River, as the Special Master has found. We adopt his
definition of low-water mark, which is not challenged here,

620

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

289 Us.

as the line drawn at the point to which the river recedes at
its lowest stage without reference to extreme droughts.
The costs will be divided between the parties in accordance with the general rule in cases of this kind. Michigan
v. Wisconsin, supra, 319; North Dakota v. Minnesota,
263 U.S. 583. The parties, or either of them, if so advised,
may, within thirty days, submit the form of decree to
carry this opinion into effect, failing which the Court will
prepare and enter the decree.
It is so ordered.

The

CHIEF JUSTICE

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
TAIT, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL, REVENUE, v.
WESTERN MARYLAND RAILWAY CO'.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THEB.

FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 842. Argued May 12, 1933.-Decided May 29, 1933.
1. In computing income tax, the Commissioner of Internal Revenue
and Board of Tax Appeals denied the right of a corporation to
deduct from gross income an amortized proportion of the discount
on sales of bonds by its predecessors. On appeal to the Circuit
Court of Appeals the right was sustained. Held that the judgment
worked an estoppel against the United States and the Collector
in later litigation with the corporation, as to its right to make
like deductions for subsequent years under the same statutory
provisions and Treasury regulations. Pp. 623, 625.
2. It will not be inferred that Congress, merely by adopting the
scheme of annual tax periods, and without express declaration of
purpose, intended to abolish the doctrine of res judicata in tax
cases and thus to deprive Government and taxpayer of relief from
redundant litigation of identical questions as to the liability of the
same taxpayer under the same taxing provisions. United States v.
Stone & Downer, 274 U.S. 225, respecting res judicata in tariff
cases, distinguished. P. 624.

