LEVERING & G. CO. v. MORRIN.
Counsel for Parties.

98

ordinance conferring a privilege is not rendered invalid
merely because it chances that particular persons find it
hard or even impossible to comply with precedent conditions upon which enjoyment of the privilege is made to
Decree affirmed.
depend.
LEVERING & GARRIGUES CO.

ET AL.

v. MORRIN

ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT

No. 423.

Argued February 17, 1933.-Decided April 10, 1933

1. The jurisdiction of the District Court on the ground of federal
question is to be determined by the allegations of the bill, and not
upon the facts as they may turn out, or by a decision of the merits.
P. 105.
2. If the bill or the complaint sets forth a substantial claim under a
federal statute, the case is witin the federal jurisdiction, however
the court may decide upon the legal sufficiency of the facts alleged
to support the claim. Id.
3. But if the claim pleaded is plainly unsubstantial, jurisdiction is
wanting. Id.
4. The federal claim averred may be plainly unsubstantial either
because obviously without merit or because it is clearly foreclosed
by the previous decisions of this Court. Id.
5. A conspiracy to halt or suppress local building operations solely
for the purpose of compelling employment of union labor can not
be adjudged a conspiracy to restrain interstate enmmerce, merely.
because, incidentally, by checking the local use of building materials, it will curtail the sale and shipment of those materials in
interstate commerce. Industrial Assn. v. United States, 268 U.S,
64, 77-78, 80-82. P. 106.
61 F. (2d) 115, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 287 U.S. 590, to review the reversal of a
decree of injunction in a suit by building concerns alleging
conspiracy by union labor organizations.

Mr. Merritt Lane for petitioners.

Mr.Frank P. Walsh for respondents.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

289 U.S.

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a suit brought by petitioners against respondents in the federal district court for the southern district
of New York to enjoin respondents from combining or
conspiring to compel petitioners to employ, in their work
of fabricating and erecting structural iron and steel, only
members of a labor union, and to refrain from employing
non-members; from conducting,'-inducing, or advising a
boycott of petitioners; and from other enumerated acts.
The bill invoked the jurisdiction of the federal court upon
the ground of diversity of citizenship, and also upon the
ground that acts complained of unlawfully interfered with
interstate commerce and constituted a violation of the
federal anti-trust acts. The case was sent to a referee,
who, after a hearing, made a report and decision sustaining the charge of boycotting, but holding that the interference occasioned thereby was local in character and did
not constitute an interference with interstate commerce.
The report and decision were confirmed by the district
court, and the bill dismissed as to certain of the respondents, and an injunction issued against others, the particulars of which, in the view we take of the case, it is not
necessary to state.
The circuit court of appeals reversed the decree of the
district court, holding that the allegations of the bill were
insufficient to establish jurisdiction on the ground of diversity of citizenship, and that the case having failed on
the federal question, the court was without power to consider the nonfederal question because it was asserted in
an independent cause of action. While resting its decision upon these considerations, that court expressed the
further view that the allegations of the bill in respect of
the claim of federal jurisdiction under the anti-trust acts
were probably so unsubstantial as to disclose, on the face

LEVERING & G. CO. v. MORRIN.
103

Opinion of the Court.

of the bill, a lack of federal jurisdiction. The district
court was directed to dismiss the bill without prejudice
for lack of jurisdiction unless amendments could be made
to correct the defect in respect of diversity of citizenship.
61 F. (2d) 115. This court granted certiorari limited to
the question of federal jurisdiction other than questions
relating to diversity of citizenship.
The question of jurisdiction as thus limited is to be
determined by the allegations of the bill, and not upon
the facts as they may turn out, or by a decision of the
merits. Mosher v. Phoenix, 287 U.S. 29, 30, and cases
cited. Whether an objection that a bill or a complaint
fails to state a case under a federal statute raises a question of jurisdiction or of merits is to be determined by
the application of a w6ll settled rule. If the bill or the
complaint sets forth a substantial claim, a case is presented within the federal jurisdiction, however the court,
upon consideration, may decide as to the legal sufficiency
of the facts alleged to support the claim. But jurisdiction, as distinguished from merits, is wanting where the
claim set forth in the pleading is plainly unsubstantial.
The cases have stated the rule in a variety of ways, but
all to that effect. See for example, Mosher v. Phoenix,
supra; Hull v. Burr, 234 U.S. 712, 720; Western Union
Tel. Co. v. Ann Arbor R. Co., 178 U.S. 239, 244; Binderup
v. Pathe Exchange, 263 U.S. 291, 305, et seq.; South Covington & C. St. Ry. Co. v. Newport, 259 U.S. 97, 99; NilesBement-Pond Co. v. Iron Moulders Union, 254 U.S. 77,
82; Montana Catholic Missions v. Missoula County, 200
U.S. 118, 130; Newburyport Water Co. v. Newburyport,
193 U.S. 561, 576.' And the federal question averred may
be plainly unsubstantial either because obviously without merit, or "because its unsoundness so clearly results
from the previous decisions of this court as to foreclose
the subject and leave no room for the inference that the
questions sought fo be raised can be the subject of con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

troversy." Hannis Distilling Co. v. Baltimore, 216 U.S.
285, 288; McGilvra v. Ross, 215 U.S. 70, 76-77, 80; Norton v. Whiteside, 239 U.S. 144, 153; Bianchi v. Morales,
262 U.S. 170; Kansas v. Bradley, 26 Fed. 289, 290; Harris v.'Rosenberger, 145 Fed. 449, 452.
Passing, without inquiry, the first of these tests, a consideration of the decisiono of this court rendered prior to
the filing of the present bill demonstrates that the question is concluded by an application of the second test.
The prayer for relief primarily is based upon the averments that petitioners are engaged in fabricating and
erecting structural iron and steel; that they are, and have
been for a long time, operating in such business on the
open shop method in relation to their employment of
labor; that they have large contrdcts for the construction
of work in the City of New York; that respondents are
organizations of labor and officers and agents thereof;
that by means and in wiys which are set forth, respondentz,
have conspired, and are attempting, to compel petitioners
and others to employ, exclusively, union labor in their
building operations; that in pursuance of the conspiracy
respondents have called out on strike petitioners'. union
employees, and conducted boycotts, and undertaken
other injurious interferences particularly set forth in the
bill. These allegations conclude with the statement:
"The sole purpose of the activities of the said defendants
[respondents] is to compel a putting into effect the closed
union shop in the industry of erecting structural iron and
steel and inasmuch as this branch of the building industry is the only branch of the building industry where a
person not a member of the labor union can secure employment if successful the entire building industry in the
entire Metropolitan District will be closed union."
Following these allegations the bill contains averments
to the effect that all the steel used by petitioners in the
City of New York is transported from other states, being

LEVERING & G. CO. v. MORRIN.
103

Opinion of the Court.

either bought or fabricated by petitioners in other states
and transported to New York to be erected by petitioners
therein; that the purpose and intent of respondents is
to prevent the uso of said steel therein, and wherever
erected by petitioners; that the effect of the success of
respondents would be, among other things, to destroy the
interstate traffic of petitioners in steel. All this, however,
is no more than to say that respondents' interference with
the erection of the steel in New York will have the effect
of interfering with the bringing of the steel from other
states. Accepting the allegations of the bill at their full
value, it results that the sole aim of the conspiracy was to
halt or suppress local building operations as a means of
compelling the employment of union labor, not for the
purpose of affecting the sale or transit of materials in
interstate commerce. Use of the materials was purely a
local matter, and the suppression thereof the result of the
pursuit of a purely local aim. Restraint of interstate
commerce was not an object of the conspiracy. Prevention of the local use was in no sense a means adopted to
effect such a restraint. It is this exclusively local aim,
and not the fortuitous and incidental effect upon interstate commerce, which gives character to the conspiracy.
Compare Bedford Cut Stone Co. v. Stone Cutters Assn.,
274 U.S. 37, 46-47; Anderson v. Shipowners Assn., 272
U.S. 359, 363-364. If thereby the shipment of steel in
interstate commerce was curtailed, that result was incidental, indirect and remote, and, therefore, not within the
anti-trust acts, as this court, prior to the filing of the
present bill, had already held. United Mine Workers v.
Coronado Coal Co., 259 U.S. 344, 410-411; United
Leather Workers v. Herkert & Meisel Trunk Co., 265 U.S.
457. The controlling application of these cases to the
present one is apparent from the review of them in the
later case of the Industrial Assn. v. United States, 268
U.S. 64, 77-78, 80-82.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

That case involved a combination on the part of building contractors and others to establish the "open shop"
plan of employing labor by requiring builders who desired materials of certain kinds to obtain permits from a
builders exchange, and by refusing such permits to those
who did not, support the plan. We held that any resulting interference with the free movement of materials
from other states, due to the lack of demand therefor
upon the part of builders who were excluded from purchasing such materials by reason of their refusal to support the plan, was incidental, indirect and remote, and,
therefore, not an unlawful interference with interstate
commerce. After pointing out that the question was
thus determined by applying the Coronado and United
Leather Workers cases, we said:
"The alleged conspiracy and the acts here complained
of, spent their intended and direct force upon a local
situation,-for building is as essentially local as mining,
manufacturing or growing crops,-and if, by a resulting
diminution of the commercial demand, interstate trade
was curtailed either generally or in specific instances, that
was a fortuitous consequence so remote and indirect as
plainly to cause it to fall outside the reach of the Sherman
Act."
The pertinent facts of that case and those here alleged
are substantially the same, and subject to the same rule.
It follows that the federal district court was without jurisdiction because the federal question presented was plainly
unsubstantial, since it had, prior to the filing of the bill,
been foreclosed by the two previous decisions last named,
and was no longer the subject of controversy. See also
Browning v. Waycross, 233 U.S. 16, 22-23; General Railway Signal Co. v. Virginia, 246 U.S. 500, 509-510. The
decree must be affirmed for this reason and it becomes
unnecessary to consiqer the other ground discussed by the
court below and upon which its decision primarily was
predicated.
Decree affirmed.

