76

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Counsel for Parties.

289 U.S.

ST. LOUIS SOUTHWESTERN RAILWAY CO. v.
MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILROAD CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ARKANSAS

No. 364. Argued January 18, 1933.-Decided March 27, 1933
1. In a proceeding under an Arkansas statute to determine the place
and manner in which a proposed track of one railroad may cross
the track of another railroad, the question whether the proposed
track is an " extension" for the construction of which a certificate
must first be obtained from the Interstate Commerce Commission
was irrelevant. P. 81.
2. The remedy of a railroad company which objects to a proposed
crossing as an "extension" for which no certificate has been
granted by the Interstate Commerce Commission, is not b defense
in the state proceeding to fix the place and manner of crossing, but
by suit for injunction under paragraph 20 of § 1 of the Interstate
Commerce Act. P. 82.
3. A judgment of the Supreme Court of Arkansas inthe state statutory proceeding, merely fixing the place and manner of the crossing,
is not in conflict with the federal law, whether the proposed track
will be a spur or an extension. P. 83.
4. Where the state supreme court, besides ordering the fixing of the
place and manner of crossing, characterized the proposed track as a
spur and not an extension, thus undertaking to decide an irrelevant
federal question,-held that the judgment, and its affirmance in
other respects by this Court, would not operate as res judicata on
that question. P. 84.
185 Ark. 824; 49 S.W. (2d) 1054, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

287 U.S. 589, to review the affirmance of

a judgment which reversed an order of the Arkansas
Railroad Commission denying an application to fix the
place and manner of a proposed crossing of railroad tracks.
Mr. Harold R. Small, with whom Mr. Arthur L. Adams
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Robert E. Wiley, with whom Mr. Edward J. White
was on the brief, for respondent.

ST. LOUIS S.W. RY. v. MO. PAC. R. CO.

77

Opinion of the Court.

76

MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

delivered the opiaon of the

Court.
The Constitution of Arkansas, Article XVII, § 1, declares: "Every railroad company shall have the right
with its road to intersect, connect with, or cross any other
road." A statute provides that the Railroad Commission
"shall have exclusive power to determine and prescribe
the manner, including the particular point of crossing
and the terms of installation, operation, maintenance,
apportionment of expenses, use and protection of each
crossing of one railroad by another railroad. . . ." Act
April 1, 1919, p. 411, § 9; Crawford & Moses Digest,
§ 1643.
Proceeding under that statute, without first obtaining
from the Interstate Commerce Commission a certificate
of public convenience and necessity under paragraph 18
of § 1 of the Interstate Commerce Act as amended by
Transportation Act, 1920,1 the Missouri Pacific Railroad
applied to the Arkansas Commission for a crossing with
an industrial track of a spur of the St. Louis Southwestern
Railway-at grade, at a point in North Little Rock-the
crossing to be constructed at the applicant's expense and
in accordance "with the terms of installation, operation,
maintenance and protection of such crossing as may be
fixed by" the Commission. At the hearing thereon the
St. Louis Southwestern appeared in opposition; but it
filed no pleading and made no statement as to the ground
of its opposition.
"No carrier by railroad subject to this Act shall undertake the
extension of its line of railroad, or the construction of a new line
of railroad,

. .

. unless and until there shall first have been obtained

from the Commission a certificate that the present or future public
convenience and necessity require or will require the construction, or
operation, or construction and operation, of such additional or ex" Act of February 28, 1920, c. 91, § 402
tended line of railroad ..
(18), 41 Stat. 456, 477.

.78

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

Both companies are interstate carriers. The record of
the proceedings before the Arkansas Commission occupies
82 pages of the printed record. But there is in it nothing
which indicates that either party had then in mind any
question arising under the Interstate Commerce Act.
The application to the Arkansas CommissionI alleged that
the Missouri Pacific hauls over its extensive system most
of the traffic to and from the plant of the Dixie Cotton
Oil Mills at North Little Rock; that in order to handle
this traffic, cars must now be switched from or to its lines
for a distance of 500 feet over tracks of the St. Louis
Southwestern; that if the Missouri Pacific were enabled
to reach the plant wholly over its. own lines, operations
would be facilitated; that to this end it had arranged to
build to the plant a spur 5,460 feet long; and that to
make this connection with its main line the crossing is
necessary. At the opening of the hearing, counsel for the
Missouri Pacific asked leave to amend the application
by
alleging that the proposed industrial track would be "an
industrial lead throughout its entire length, for the service of the public generally, and operation and serving of
industries that may be located in this new territory "that is, an industrial track from which switches would
lead to new industries that might be located there.
The St. Louis Southwestern objected to the allowance
of the amendment; its objection was sustained by the
Commission; and its counsel stated that the introduction
of any evidence of the purpose to make the track an industrial lead would be objected to. But as the hearing
proceeded there was evidence (brought out largely
through the cross-examination by the St. Louis Southwestern's counsel) that it was the hope of the Missouri
Pacific that the proposed, track would ultimately be used
as an industrial lead track. The Arkansas Commission
denied the Missouri Pacific's application to fix the place

ST. LOUIS S.W. RY. v. MO. PAC. R. CO.
76

79

Opinion of the Court.

and manner of the crossing. Why it did so does not
appear. It rendered no opinion; and its order stated
merely that "having heard all the evidence" and "after
having made a personal inspection of all the physical
properties described in the petition and involved in this
proceeding, [the Commission] is of the opinion that said
application should be denied." A rehearing sought was
also denied without opinion or other indication of the
reason for the Commission's action.
From the order, and upon the record made before the
Commission, the Missouri Pacific appealed to the Circuit
Court of Pulaski County. Act of February 15, 1921, p.
177, § 20; Crawford & Moses Digest (Castle's 1927
Supp.), § 8417z3. There, the St. Louis Southwestern set
up, by requests for findings and rulings, several objections
to the granting of the application. Among them, was a
request to find that the proposed track of the Missouri
Pacific was an extension of its lines into new territory, as
distinguished from a spur to an industry; and tQ rule that,
for this reason, the track could not be lawfully built or
used without first procuring from the Interstate Commerce Commission a certificate of public convenience and
necessity. The Circuit Court refused to make the finding and ruling requested; held that the Missouri Pacific
was entitled to the crossing as prayed for; and directed
the Commission to take action accordingly. The St. Louis
Southwestern then appealed to the Supreme Court of Arkansas; and, besides a claim- based wholly on the state
law, insisted that the Arkansas Commission was without
power to fix the point and manner of crossing, since no
certificate of public convenience and necessity had been
secured from the Interstate Commerce Commission.
That court, in affirming the judgment, held specifically
that the proposed track was a spur located wholly in the
State of Arkansas, within the meaning of paragraph 22

80

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

of § 1 of the Interstate Commerce Act,' and so not subject to the requirement of a certificate from the federal
Commission. 185 Ark. 824; 49 S.W. (2d) 1054. Because of the decision of that federal question- certiorari
was granted. 287 U.S. 589.
The St. Louis Southwestern asks us to reverse the judgment on the ground that upon the evidence introduced
before the Arkansas Commission the proposed track
should be held to be an extension of the Missouri Pacific's
line into new territory, within the meaning of paragraph
18, as applied in Texas PacificRy. Co. v. Gulf, Colorado &
Santa Fe Ry. Co., 270 U.S. 266. The Missouri Pacific
insists that its right to the crossing cannot be questioned
in this proceeding, which is limited to fixing the place and
manner of the cro ssing; that under the state -practice its
right to a crossing could be challenged only by an independent suit-a bill in equity; that, in any event, the
judgment should be affirmed, because, if the character of
the proposed track is relevant in this enquiry the Supreme Court properly held it to be a spur; and that since
it is located wholly within the State of Arkansas, the
Interstate Commerce Commission had no authority over
its construction.
The Supreme Court of Arkansas stated in its opinion
the contentions of the St. Louis Southwestern and then
proceeded to answer them. The contentions stated were
that "the circuit court erred in directing the Commission
to fix the point and manner of crossing, because first:
under the statute it has no authority to act until appellee
acquires the right of way by condemnation proceedings,
The authority of the Commission conferred by paragraphs (18)
to (21), both inclusive, shall not extend to the construction or abandonment of spur, industrial, team, witching, or side tracks, located
or to be located wholly within one State ...

1920, c. 91, § 402 (22), 41 Stat. 456, 478.

"

Act of February 28,

ST. LOUIS S.W. RY. v. MO. PAC. R. CO.

81

Opinion of the Court.

76

and second: until it obtains a certificate of convenience
and necessity for the crossing from the Interstate Commerce Commission." That court's answers to the contentions were:. First, that the right to the crossing exists
under the state -constitution and that "the orderly way
would be to first fix the place and manner of crossing and
then proceed in the proper tribunal to condemn the land
needed to effect the crossing at the place fixed or designated." Second, that upon the evidence the proposed
track, which is located wholly within Arkansas, is a spur;
and being so, it was unnecessary to secure the certificate
from the Interstate Commerce Commission. Thus, the
Arkansas court decided the case by determining the character of the proposed track, without expressly passing
upon, or so far as appears considering, the question
whether that federal issue Was relevant in the proceeding
under review.
We think that it was not relevant. If the proposed
track is believed to be an extension, the remedy is not by
way of defense to an application to fix the place and
manner of the crossing. The statute of Arkansas which
confers upon the Railroad Commission exclusive power
to determine ihe place and manner of crossing antedates
Transportation Act, 1920, which introduced paragraphs
18 to 22 of § 1 of the Interstate Commerce Act. The St.
Louis Southwestern does not contend that the law of
Arkansas requires denial of the application in the absence of a certificate from the Interstate. Commerce Commission. It contends that the federal law requires the
state commission to refrain from fixing the place and
manner of crossing unless a certificate for building the
proposed track shall have been secured from the"Interstate Commerce Commission. There is no basis for such
a contention. Transportation Act, 1920, which confers
upon an interested carrier the right not to be subjected
15450-33----.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

to such new competition unless it is found to be in the
public interest, prescribes the remedy for the protection
'of that right. The remedy prescribed is a proceeding to
enjoin. Paragraph 20 of § 1 declares that "ahy construction or operation" contrary to the provisions of paragraphs 18, 19 or 20 "may be enjoined by any court of
competent jurisdiction at the suit of the United States,
the Commission, any commission or regulating body of
the State or States affected, or any party in interest."
That procedure affords an opportunity "to secure an
orderly hearing and proper determination, of the matter,"
Western Pacific CaliforniaR. Co. v. Southern Pacific Co.,
284 U.S. 47, 52; and the remedy is "both affirmative and
complete," Texas Pacific Ry. Co. v. Gulf, Colorado &
Santa Fe Ry. Co., 270 U. S. 266, 273. The propriety of
'The method prescribed by paragraph 20 was pursued in the
following cases: Texas v. Eastern Texas- R. Co., 258 U.S. 204;
Smyth v. Asphalt Belt Ry. Co., 267 U.S. 326; Texas Pacific Ry. Co.
v. Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fe Ry. Co., 270 U.S. 266, 273; Alabama
& Vicksburg Ry. Co. v. Jackson & Eastern Ry. Co., 271 U.S. 244;
Texas & N. 0. R. Co. v. Northside Belt Ry. Co., 276 U.S. 475; Western
Pacific California R. Co. v. Southern Pacific Co., 284 U.S. 47; Claiborne-Annapolis Ferry Co. v. United States, 285 U.S. 382, 391-392;
Piedmont & Northern Ry. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission,
286 U.S. 299; Detroit & M. Ry Co. v. Boyne City, G. & A. R. Co.,
286 Fed. 540; El Dorado & W. Ry. Co. v. Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co.,
5 F. (2d) 777; Detroit Terminal R. Co. v. Pennsylvania-DetroitR.
Co., 15 F. (2d) 507; Missouri-Kansas-Texas R. Co. v. Northern
Oklahoma Rys., 25 F. (2d) 689; Missouri Pacific R. Co. v. Chicago,
R. I. & P. Ry. Co., 41 F. (2d) 188; Bremner v. Mason City & C. L.
R. Co., 48 F. (2d) 615; Missouri Pacific R. Co. v. Union Pacific
Ry. Co., 60 F. (2d) 126; Marion & E. R. Co. v. Missouri Pacific R.
Co., 318 Ill. 436; 149 N.E. 492; compare State v. Atlantic Coast Line
R. Co., 95 Fla. 14; 116 So. 48. No case in the federal courts has been
found in which any other method was pursued to secure relief against
what was believed to be an unauthorized extension. Compare, however, Seaboard Air Line v. Tampa Southern R. Co., 97 Fla. 340; 121
So. 477. In Missouri Pacific R. Co, v, Chicago, R, 1. & P. Ry. Co., 41

ST. LOUIS S.W. RY. v. MO. PAC. R. CO.
76

83,

Opinion of the Court.

requiring resort to the remedy by injunction is illustrated
by the pioceedings in the case at bar. The question
whether the proposed track is a spur or an extension has
been,decided by the Supreme Court of the State upon a
record made before the state commission although, so far
as appears, the issue was not raised there and neither that
body nor the parties treated it as relevant.
Confining the St. Louis Southwestern to the remedy
prescribed by Tramnsportation Act, 1920, does not abridge
the protection of its rights. If the proposed track is a
spur, the question of the place and manner of the crossing presents a purely local problem to be decided by the
state commission under the laws of the State, unless a
claim were made that by allowing a crossing at grade the
operation of trains in interstate commerce over the spur
of the St. Louis Southwestern would be obstructed. The
record is barren of any such suggestion. If, the proposed
track is an extension, the order of the state commission
does not impair the right of the St. Louis Southwestern
to be free from invasion of its territory unless the extension is in the public interest. The application to the Arkansas commission is not for leave to build the track or
for leave to use it; it is solely to have fixed the place, manner and terms of the crossing. The order of the state
commission does not purport to authorize the construction of the track, or its use when constructed. It would
seem that a proposed larger use of the track, if an industrial lead and not a spur to a single industry, might well
have been deemed relevant to the state commission's determination of the appropriate place and manner of crossing. But its determination of that matter in no way
F. (2d) 188; cited above, the relief sought and granted was an
injunction against unauthorized construction and also against prosecution before the Arkansas railroad commission of a petition for a
crossing.

84

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

concludes the federal claim of the St. Louis Southwestern
here asserted. And postponement of the determination
whether the track is a spur or an extension will prejudice
no federal right of the St. Louis Southwestern. If the
track should be held in the later proceeding to be a spur,
obviously the St. Louis Southwestern will have no ground
to complain of the order of the state commission. If the
track is held to be an extension, that order will not become
effective unless the Missouri Pacific should secure a certificate from the Interstate Commerce Commission. Indeed, the prior determination by the state commission of
the place, manner and terms of the crossing may, by making the plan more concrete and definitive, aid the federal
commission in reaching an informed judgment on the
application. Compare Los Angeles Passenger Terminal
Cases, 100 I.C.C. 421, 459.
,.For the reasons stated, we are of opinion that the judgment of the Supreme Court of Arkansas, as it directed
merely that an order be entered fixing the place and manner of the crossing, is not in conflict with the federal law,
whether the proposed track is a spur or an extension; and
that in passing upon the character of the track, the state
court determined a federal question not pertinent to the
decision of the case. It was stated at the bar that there
is now pending, in the federal court for Arkansas, a suit
commenced by the St. Louis Southwestern, under paragraph 20 of § 1 of the Interstate Commerce Act, to enjoin
construction of the proposed track on the ground that it
is an extension. Since the question whether the proposed
track is a spur or an extension was not pertinent to the
decision of this .case in the state courts, and as we necessarily refrain from passing on that question, it follows
that neither the judgment of the Supreme Court of Arkansas, nor the judgment of this Court, will operate as
?e judicataon that issue. As thus defined the judgment is
Affirmed.

