I.C.C. v. UNITED STATES.

385

Syllabus.

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION v.

UNITED STATES

EX EL.

CAMPBELL

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 748.

Argued April 21, 1933.-Decided May 8, 1933.

1. Where the 'Interstate Commerce Commission finds that a system
of rates discriminates unjustly against a shipper, and orders the
discrimination removed for the future, but also finds that the rates
he paid were not in themselves unreasonable, and dismisses his
complaint for damages because the record before it will not support
an award of reparation based on the undue prejudice, its action in
the latter aspect is judicial in character, negative in form and not
reviewable elsewhere. P. 387.
2. Discrimination alone being the gist of the offense, the difference
between one rate and another is not the measure of the damages
suffered by the shipper, though it is one of the evidentiary circumstances. P. 389.
3. When a shipper who paid only reasonable rates sues for damages
on account of rate discrimination, he must prove, not merely that
business competitors enjoyed lower rates, but how much he himself
lost through diversion of business and profits, lowered market
prices, etc., because of the discrimination; and such consequences
are not necessarily to be inferred from .the discrimination without
more. P. 390.
4. Mandamus is an appropriate remedy to compel a judicial officer to
act, but it may not be used to compel a decision in a particular
way, or as a substitute for an appeal or writ of error to dictate the
manner of his action. P. 394.'
5. Even if the Interstate Commerce Commission committed an error
of law in the present case in refusing to find the ultimate fact of
damage as an inference from the evidentiary facts set out in its
decision, the error can not be corrected by mandamus. P. 393.
6. The policy of the law has been to give finality to orders of the
Commission negative in form and substance, and to keep them out
of the courts. A dissatisfied complainant is not permitted to escape
these limitations indirectly by broadening the functions of mandamus when he is barred from more direct review. P. 394.
61 App. D.C. 382; 63 F.'(2d) 358, reversed.
1545 0 -3-25

386

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 US.

CERTIORARI * to review the reversal of a judgment of the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia refusing a writ
of mandamus.

Mr. Daniel W. Knowlton, with whom Mr. Edward M.
Reidy was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. A. Henry Walter, with whom Mr. Johnston B.
Campbell was on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO

delivered- the opinion of the Court.

Upon a complaint filed by the Birch Valley Lumber
Company against carriers by rail engaged in interstate
commerce, the Interstate Commerce Commission determined that rates maintained by the carriers were unduly
prejudicial to the complainant and unduly preferential
to its competitors, but that the record would not support
an award of damages. Thereupon the complainant sued
in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia for a
writ of mandamus commanding the Commission to make
an award of damages in accordance with a stated formula..
The Court of Appeals, reversing the determination of the
lower court, held that the writ should issue. 61 App.D.C.
382; 63 F. (2d) 358. The case is here on certiorari.
The complainant before the Commission, the respondent in this court, is a lumber company engaged in business
at Tioga, West Virginia. Transportation service to and
from Tioga is supplied by the Strouds Creek and Muddlety Railroad Company (the S. C. & M.), a short line
railroad running from Delphi, West Virginia, to Allingdale in that state, a distance of nine and a half miles.
The terminus of this road at Allingdale is a junction point
with the Baltimore & Ohio Railroad (the B. & 0.), and
through it with connecting lines 5eyond. Lumber dealers
on the route of the B. & 0. have had the benefit of blanket
*See

Table of Cases Reported in this volume,

I.C.C. v. UNITED STATES.
385

Opinion of the Court.

or group rates established by that road and others jointly.
The complainant has had to pay the group rate, and in
addition a charge for carriage on the S. C. & M., the short
line connection. The result has been to put it at a disadvantage as compared with competitors in the same producing territory. "Complainant," it is found, "does not
question the reasonableness per se of the blanket or group,
rates for Allingdale or the other points in the group, but'
assails only what it terms the relatively high through rates
from Tioga and Delphi. It also admits that the charge
of the S. C. & M. is not unreasonably high." The controversy hinges upon the effect of an unlawful preference.
For rate making purposes the producing territory
tributary to the B. & 0. in Pennsylvania, Maryland,
and West Virginia is divided into several groups. "One
of these gr~ips known as the Richwood group has its
terminus at Allingdale. So also has another group known
as number 9. Lumber dealers competing with the complainant -do business within this territory, and pay the
group or blanket rate, which ,takes no heed of distances
within the group area. Cf. United States v. Illinois Central "R. Co., 263 U.S. 515, 522. In some instances the
blanket rate has been extended to short line connections,
but this has been exceptional, and has not included any
points on the S. C. & M. The additional charge paid
by the complainant for the short line connection between
Allingdale and Tioga (7.1 miles) is $15 per car. Another lumber company, engaged in business at Delphi,
intervened in the proceedings and joined in the complaint..
Both the complainant and the intervening shipper were
"forced to base their prices on the group rates and absorb the charges of the S. C. & M."
The Commission found that the failure of the carriers
to establish joint or group rates over the short line connections had the effect of an undue preference to lumber
companies doing business within the group territory,

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

though apart from the preference the rates were not unreasoiiable. Accordingly it made an order directed to
the B. & 0. and other connecting railroads to "cease
and desist" from the unlawful practice. There was no
award of damages. "The record," the Commission held,
"will not support an award of reparation based on the
undue prejudice found to exist."
The Interstate Commerce Act makes it unlawful for
a carrier to give any undue or unreasonable preference
to a person or locality, or to subject any person or locality
to an undue disadvantage (24 Stat. 380, § 3; 41 Stat.
479, § 405; 49 U.S.C., § 3), and charges the offender
with liability for the full amount of damages resulting
from the unlawful act. § 8. Upon the hearing of a
complaint, the Commission is empowered to ascertain
the damages and award them. § 16 (1). The respondent
by its complaint to the Commission invoked this dual
jurisdiction, the administrative jurisdiction to prescribe
a rule for the future (Great Northern Railway Co. v.
Merchants Elevator Co., 259 U.S. 285, 291; Baltimore &
Ohio R. Co. v. Brady, 288 U.S. 448), and the judicial or
quasi-judicial jurisdiction to give reparation for the past.
Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v.. Brady, supra. In dismissing such a complaint, the Commission speaks with finality. Its orders purely negative-negative in form and
substance-are not subject to review by this court or
any other. Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 283 U.S.
235; Alton R. Co. v. United States, 287 U.S. 229; Procter
& Gamble Co. v. United States, 225 U.S. 282; Baltimore
& 0. R. Co. v. Brady, supra. Damages for discrimination denied by the Commission are not recoverable somewhere else.
.The respondent, conceding these restrictions upon the
remedies available in the courts, professes to abide by
them. The argument is that damages were found by the

I.C.C. v. UNITED STATES,
385

389

Opinion of the Court.

Commission, and after being found were arbitrarily withheld. Damages were found, it is said, because the evidentiary facts set forth in the findings lead to a conclusion
of damage in a. determinate amount, and lead to that con-'
clusion as an inference of law.. Damages, -being found,
were arbitrarily withheld, because discretion is excluded
when the loss is ascertained. In that view, the denial of.
an award is the breach of a ministerial duty to be corrected by mandamus, as if a court after determining in
favor of a suitor the amount of his recovery were to refuse
him execution.
1. "The record will not support an award 'of repara,
tion based on the undue prejudice found to exist." This
is not a finding that damages in the sum of $15 per car or
in any other sum have been suffered by the complainant,
but will not be awarded. This is a finding that upon the
evidence before the Commission, which is not before us,
there is not a sufficient basis for a finding of any damage
whatever. Nothing in the recital of evidentiary facts is
inconsistent as a matter of law with this negation of loss.
The Commission does not find, and the complainant does
not assert, that the rate was unreasonable in the sense that
it would be subject to condemnation if a like rate had
been charged to others similarly situated. What is unlawful in the action of the carriers inheres in its discriminatory quality, and not in anything else. When discrimination and that alone is the gist of the offense, the difference between one rate and another is not the measure of
the damages suffered by the shipper. Penn. R. Co. v.
InternationalCoal Co., 230 U.S.. 184; Mitchell Coal Co. v.
Penn. R. Co., 230 U.S. 247, 258; Southern Pacific Co. v.
Darnell-Taenzer Co., 245 U.S. 531, 534; Keogh v. C. &
N. W. Ry. Co., 260 U.S. 156, 165. Cf. Postal Tl. Cable
Co. v. Associated Press, 228 N.Y 370, 379, 380; 127 N.E.
256. It is an evidentiary circumstance to be viewed along

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

with others in the setting of the occasion. It is not the
measure without more. Penn. R. Co. v. Internationa
Coal Co., supra;Keogh v. C. & N. W. Ry. Co., supra,
Overcharge and discrimination have very different consequences, and must be kept distinct in thought. When
the rate exacted of a shipper is excessive or unreasonable
in and of itself, irrespective of the rate exacted of competitors, there may be recovery of the overcharge with-

out other evidence of loss. "The carrier ought not to be
allowed to retain his illegal profit and the only one who
can take it from him is the one that alone was in relation with him, and from whom the carrier took the' sum."
Southern Pac.'Co. v. Darnell-Taenzer Co., supra, p. 534.
But a different measure of recovery is applicable "where
a party that has paid only the reasonable rate sues upon
a discrimination because some other has paid less." So.
Pac. Co. v. Darnell-Taenzer Co., supra. Such a one is
not to recover as of course a payment reasonable in
amount for a service given and accepted. He is to recover the damages that he has suffered, which may be
more than the preference or less (Penn. R. Co. v. International Coal Co., supra, pp. 206, 207), but which,
whether more or less, is something to be proved and not
presumed. Ibid, p. 204. "Recovery cannot be had unless it is shown that, as a result of defendant's acts,
damages in some amount susceptible of expression in
figures resulted." Keogh v. C. & N. W. Ry. Co., supra,
p. 165. The question is not how much better off the
complainant would be today if it had paid a lower rate.
The question is how much worse off it 'is because others
have paid less.
The answer to that question is not independent of time
and place and circumstance. It calls for something more
than the use of a math-ematical formula. If by reason
of the discrimination, the preferred producers have been

I.C.C. v. UNITED STATES.
385

Opinion of the Court.

able t6 divert business that would otherwise have gone
to the disfavored shipper, damage has resulted to the extent of the diverted profits. If the'effect of the discrimination has been to force the shipper to sell at a lowered
market price (Penn. R. Co. v. International Coal Co.,
supra, p. 207; Hoover v. Penn. R. Co., 156 Pa. St. 220,
244; 27 Atl. 282), damage has resulted to the extent of
the reduction. But none of these consequences is a necessary inferdnce from discrimination without more. This
complainant was in competition with producers in the
Allingdale group. It was in competition, however, with
many other producers doing business in distant territory,
for its dealings were far flung. It had markets in Canada, Kentucky, Illinois, Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania,
New York, New Jersey, Maryland, and the New England
states. The finding is that "the lumber is sold in competition with that produced throughout the country,"
though" especially with that produced in the same general territory." For all that appears the prices charged
for lumber by producers within the group were the market
prices current generally throughout the entire field of
competition.' If that is so, the producers in the favored
territory were not making use of the preference to mark
the price down to an equivalent extent, and thus deprive
the complainant, less favorably situated, of a reasonable
return. They were letting the price stpnd as it would
have been if the tariff had been equal, and taking advantage of the preference to increase the profit for themselves.
'Cf. Donner Steel Co. v. Delaware, Lackawanna & Western R. Co.,
92 I.C.C. 59,, 599; Hylton Flour Mills v. Los Angeles & Salt Lake
R. Co., 152 I.C.C. S1; Coal Switching Reparation Cases at Chicago,
36 I.C.C. 226; also tihe following cases in which the prices had been
fixed by the government: Home Packing & Ice Co. v. Director General, 57 I.C.C. 691; Wharton Steel Co. v. Director General, 59
I.C.C. 11.

392

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 US.

That was gain to them but it was not loss to the complainant.
The truth of this is seen more clearly when we keep in
mind the varying methods available to remove discrimination and restore equality. The respondenit argues as if
there were one method, and one only, and this by cutting
down the Tioga and Delphi rates and thus reducing them
to the level of the rates within the group. But that is to
ignore the other methods of adjustment open to the carriers. The discrimination might be removed either by
cutting one set of charges down, or by lifting the other
up, or by establishing a new rate intermediate between
them. United States v. Illinois Central R. Co., supra, at
p. 521; American Express Co. v. South Dakota, 244 U.S.
617, 624. The situation comes out into clear relief if we
assume recourse to be had to the second of these methods.
Rates within the favored territory might be raised to the
same level as those outside of it, and yet after the change
the complainant would be no better off, if the discrimination had not tended to hold market prices down. The
profit of the favored shippers would in that event be less,
just as it would be if they had been receiving a rebate from
the published tariff (Penn. R. Co. v. International Coal
Co., supra); but because their profit would be less, the
conclusion would not be inevitable that the complainant's
would be greater. The two would not fluctuate in
any
constant ratio. There would be no necessary correspondence between preference and damage. In varied situations
the Interstate Commerce Commission has thus interpreted
the doctrine of the International Coal case, and so given
or withheld relief. The rulings of the Commission are
consistent to the effect that the absorption by a complainant of a discriminatory charge does not avail to establish damage, or to measure its extent, in the absence
of a showing that prices were affected by the differential

I.C.C. v. UNITED STATES.
385

393

Opinion of the Court.

rate. There must be full disclosure of the conditions of
the business, or of those affecting competition, including,
in particular, the capacity of the preferred producers to
fix the prices for the market. Only then will the ultimate
fact of damage emerge from the evidentiary facts' as an
appropriate conclusion. One cannot say from this record
that there was that disclosure here.
2. The result, however, would be the same if we were
to assume arguendo, that there was error of law in the
refusal to find the ultimate fact of damage as an inference
from the evidentiary facts set out in the decision. The
respondent even then is faced with the difficulty that
the Commission did not think the inference permissible,
and so declined to make it. One has only to read the
opinions in PennsylvaniaR. Co. v. Inter'nationalCoal Co.,
supra, and the cases that have followed it, to see how
much the rule of damages is beset by delicate distinctions,
how preeminently in applying it there is a call upon the
judge to think and act judicially, to use judgment and
discretion. Errors.of law in the discharge of a function
essentially judicial are not subject to be corrected through
the writ of mandamus any more than errors of fact. If
the Commission had declined to listen to the' claim for
reparation, or finding reparation due had declined to order
payment, mandamus might have been available to hold it
2 Memphis Freight Bureau v. Chicago & Eastern Illinois Ry. Co.,
101 I.C.C. 26; Hylton Flour Mills v. Los Angeles & Salt Lake R. Co.,
152 I.C.C. 81; Coal Switching Reparation Cases at Chicago, 36 I.C.C.226; Wharton Steel Co. v. Director General, 59 I.C.C. 11; Home
Packing & Ice Co. v. Director General, 57 I.C.C. 691; Donner Steel
Co. v. D.L. & W. R. Co., 57 I.C.C. 745; Badger Lumber & Coal Co..
v. A. T. & S. F. Ry. Co., 136 I.C.C. 350; Iten Biscuit Co. v. Chicago.
B. & Q. R. Co., 53 I.C.C. 729; Stauffer Chemical Co. v. Houston &
Brazos Valley Ry. Co., 142 I.C.C. 327. Cf. Gallagher v. Pennsylvania
R. Co., 160 I.C.C. 563; Brooks Coal Co. v. Wabash R. Co., 39 I.C.C.
426; Chicago Bridge & Iron Works v, Director General, 85 I.C.C. 99.

394.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion

-of

the Court.

289 US.

to its duty. That is not what happened. The Commission heard the complaint and proceeded to. a decision. If
the mandamus were to stand; the result would not be to
compel the Commission to adjudicate the cause, for that
it has already done; the result would be to compel an
adjudication in a particular way. The rule is elementary
that this is not the function of the writ. Mandamus is
an appropriate remedy to compel a judicial officer to act.
It may not be used as a substitute for an appeal or writ
of error to dictate the manner of his action. Interstate
Commerce Commission v. Waste Merchants Ass'n, 260
U.S. 32, 34; Wilbur v. Kadrie, 281 U.S. 206, 218; Interstate Commerce Commission v. N. Y., N. H. & H. R. Co.,
287 U.S. 178, 204.
The policy of the law has been to give finality to.orders
of the Commission negative in form and substance, and
to keep them out of the courts. Standard Oil Co. v.
United States,.supra; Alton R. Co. v. United States,
supra; Procter & Gamble Co. v. United States, supra,
B. & 0. R. Co. v. Brady, supra. A dissatisfied complainant is not permitted to escape these limitations indirectly
by broadening the functions of :mandamus when he is
barred from more direct review. I.C.C. v. Waste Merchants Ass'n, supra,p. 35.- There have been like attempts
before in other branches of the law of remedies. In re
Pennsylvania Co., 137 U.S. 451,454; Missouri PacificRy.
Co. v. Fitzgerald, 160 U.S. 556; 581. .They have met
with no success.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals should be reversed and the petition for the writ denied.
Reversed.

