OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

289 U.S.

prior to November 11, 1918.' These provisos did not by
referring to obligations "incurred" enlarge the Secretary's authority to "pay such net losses as hive been suffered." On the contrary, their purpose was to make clear
that where expenditures were alleged, the Secretary must
be satisfied that payment therefor had actually been made
or that there was a valid agreement to pay therefor.
When this Court stated in the Wilbur case that in determining the loss as of March 2, 1919, there shall be
taken into account "the amount of interest which has
been paid or incurred by relator for money borrowed and
lost," the word "incurred" was used to mean interest
accrued on that date, as well as interest paid. The language of the opinion was correctly construed by the Secretary when he limited the additional award, on account
of interest, to $44,451.45.
Reversed.

O'DONOGHUE v. UNITED STATES.*
CERTIFICATES FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 729.

Argued April 12, 1933.-Decided May 29, 1933.

1. The Supreme Court and the Court of Appeals of the District of
Columbia are constitutional courts of the United States, ordained
and established under Art. III of the Constitution. Their judges
hold their offices during good behavior; and their compensation
' Among the provisos are the following: "And provided further that
no claim shall be allowed or paid by said Secretary unless it shall
appear to the satisfaction of the said Secretary that the expenditures
so made or obligations so incurred by the claimant were made in good
faith for or upon property which contained either manganese, chrome,
pyrites, "or tungsten in sufficient quantities to be of commercial importance. And provided further, that no claim shall be paid unless
it shall appear to the satisfaction of said Secretary that moneys were
invested or obligations were incurred subsequent to April sixth, nineteen hundred and seventeen. .. "
* Together with No. 730, Hitz v. United States.

O'DONOGHUE v. UNITED STATES.
516

517

Syllabus.

c"n not, under the Constitution, be diminished duringr their continuance in office. Pp. 529, 551.
2. The division of powers of government into tnree separate and
distinct departments,-the legislative, the executive, and the
judicial-was not for convenience merely, but with the basic and
vital object of precluding the commingling of these essentially
different powers in the same hands. P. 530.
3. The exceptions found in the Constitution do but emphasize the
generally inviolate character of-this plan. P. 530.
4. Equally as important as the separation is it that each department
shall be kept completely independent, in the sense that its acts
shall never be controlled by, or subjected directly or indirectly to
the coercive influence of, either of the other two departments.
P. 530.
5. The anxiety of the framers of the Constitution to preserve this
independence, especially of the judicial department, was manifested by the provision forbidding the diminution of the compensation of the judges of courts. exercising the judicial power-of the
United States. P. 531.
6. The power to diminish the compensation of the federal judges was
explicitly denied by the Constitution, in order, inter alia, that their
judgment or action might never be swayed in the slightest degree
by the temptation to cultivate the favor or avoid the displeasure
of the department which, as master of the purse, would otherwise
hold the power to reduce their means of support. P. 531.
7. There rests upon every federal judge affected a duty to withstand
any attempt, directly or indirectly, in contravention of the Constitution, to diminish this compensation, not for his private advantage but in the interest of preserving unimpaired an essential safeguard adopted as a continuing guaranty of an independent judicial
administration for the benefit of the whole people. P. 533.
8. The judges of the Supreme Court and-of the Court of Appeals of
the District of Columbia are of equal rank and power with those
of the other inferior courts of the federal system, and plainly within
the spirit and reason of the compensation provision. P. 534.
9. Indeed, the reasons which impelled the adoption of this constitutional limitation apply with even greater force to the courts of the
District than to the inferior courts of the United States located
elsewhere, because the judges of the former courts are in closer
contact with, and more immediately open to the influences of, the
legislative department, and exercise a more extensive jurisdiction

518

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

289 U.S.

in matters affecting the operations of the General Government in
its various departments. P. 535.
10. Territorial courts are legislative courts, created in virtue of the
national sovereignty or under Art. IV, § 3, cl. 2, of the Constitution, vesting in Congress the power "to dispose of and make all
needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States "; and their judicial power is
not and could not be derived from Art. III of the Constitution.
P. 535.
11. The so-called territories were parts of the outlying domain of
the United States organized in preparation for their becoming
States. The Constitution could not have intended that the judges
appointed for such provisional and temporary governments should
have permanent tenure and irreducible compensation. P. 536.
12. The District of Columbia, unlike the territories, is a permanent
part of the United States-the very heart of the Union--over
which Congress, under Art. I, § 8, cl. 17, has permanent and exclusive power of legislation-the combined powers of national and
state governments where legislation is possible. P. 538.
13. Possession of the plenary power under Art. I, § 8, cl. 17, does
not preclude Congress from exercising in the District other appropriate powers conferred upon it by the Constitution, or authorize
a denial to the inhabitants of any constitutional guaranty not
plainly inapplicable. P. 539.
14. It is important to bear in mind that the District was made up
of portions of two of the original States, and was not taken out
of the Union by the cession. Prior thereto its inhabitants were
entitled to all the rights, guaranties, and immunities of the Constitution, among which was the right to have their cases arising
under the Constitution heard and determined by federal courts
created under, and vested with the judicial power conferred by,
Art. III. It is not reasonable to assume that the cession stripped
them of these rights, and that it was intended that at the very seat
of the national government the people should be less fortified by
the guaranty of an independent judiciary than in other parts of
the Union. P. 540.
15. Because, for the reasons stated, the provisions of Art. III are not
applicable to the territories, it does not follow that they are likewise inapplicable to the District where these peculiar reasons do
not obtain. P. 541.

O'DONOGHUE v. UNITED STATES.
516

Statement of the Case.

16. The Supreme Court and Court of Appeals of the District of
Columbia are permanent establishments-federal courts of the
Unit.1 States and parts of the federal judicial system. P. 544.
17. They are vested generally with the same jurisdiction as that
possessed by the inferior federal courts located elsewhere in respect
of the cases enumerated in § 2 of Art. III; and it logically follows
that where jurisdiction over these cases is conferred upon the courts
of the District, the judicial power, since they are capable of receiving it, is, ipso facto, vested in such courts as inferior courts of
the United States. P. 545.
18. Subject to the guarantees of personal right in the Amendments
and the original Constitution, Congress has as much power to vest
courts of the District of Columbia with a variety of jurisdiction
and powers as a State has in conferring jurisdiction on its courts.
P. 545.
19. Since Congress has the same power under Art. III to ordain
and establish federal courts in the District of Columbia as in a
State, whether it has done so in any particular instance depends
upon whether the judicial power conferred extends to the cases
enumeratedc in that Article. If it does, the judicial power thus
conferred is not, and can not be, affected by the additional congressional legislation, enacted under Art. I, § 8, cl. 17, imposing
upon such courts other duties which, because that special power
is limited to the District, Congress can not impose upon inferior
courts elsewhere. P. .546.
20. The conclusion to which the Court has come in this case is in
accord with the continuous and unbroken practice of Congress
from the beginning of the Government. P. 548.
21. Observations in Ex parte Bakelite Corp., 279 U.S. 438, touching
the status of the courts of the District of Columbia, characterized
as obiter; Postum Cereal Co. v. California Fig Nut Co., 272 U.S.
693, qualified and distinguished. P. 550.
22. General expressions in any opinion axe to be taken in connection with the case in which those expressions are used. If they go
beyond the case, they may be respected, but ought not to control
the judgment in a subsequent suit when the very point is presented for decision. P. 550.
RESPONSE to questions certified by the Court of Claims
in two actions, one by a Justice of the Supreme Court of

the District of Columbia and the other by a Justice of

"520

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for Plaintiffs.

289 U.S.

the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia, in
which the claimants sought to recover sums withheld
from their respective salaries by a ruling of the Comptroller General of the United States, based on his construction of an appropriation act which reduced the
salaries of all judges except those "whose compensation
may not, under the Constitution, be diminished during
their continuance in office." This case was argued with
Williams v. United States, reported next after this one.
Messrs. John W. Davis and John S. Flannery, with
whom Messrs. George E. Hamilton and Daniel W. O'Donoghue, Jr., were on the brief, for plaintiffs.
The territory embraced within the District of Columbia,
once part of the States of Maryland and Virginia; has
never ceased to be'a part of the United States. Doues
v. Bidwell, 182 U.S. 244, 261.
When the District was established by the Act of July 16,
1790, and when the seat of the National Government was
moved there and circuit courts for the District were created by Congress, they became vested with all of the judicial power under Article III, and, as held in Kendall v.
United States, 12 Pet. 524, they were given not only the
same powers exercisable by other circuit courts of the
United States but also certain additional powers which the
latter courts did not possess.
Aside from provisions of the District of Columbia Code,
it has been held repeatedly that. the Supreme Court of
the District is a Court of the United States. Embry v.
Palmer, 107 U.S. 3; Callan v. Wilson, 127 U.S. 540; Benson v. Henkle, 198 U.S. 1; James v. United States, 202
U.S. 407-8; Cross v. United States, 145 U.S. 571, 576;
Moss v. United States, 23 App.D.C. 475, 481, 482.
Whether the courts of the District were established
under the powers given Congress by Art. I, § 8, "to constitute tribunals inferior to the Supreme Court" or "to

O'DONOGHUE v. UNITED STATES.
516

Argument for Plaintiffs.

exercise exclusive legislation in all cases whatsoever over
such District," etc., or under Art. III, § 1, it can not be
denied that they are "tribunals inferior to the Supreme
Court" of the United States and repositories of the judicial power under Art. III. They are a part of the Federal Judicial System. Federal Trade Comm'n v. Klesner,
274 U.S. at p. 145.
These courts possess (1) the jurisdiction appertaining to
all of the other federal courts which grows out of the
exercise of the judicial powers granted in Art. III; (2) an
extensive jurisdiction involving matters of substantive
law, controversies arising, and crimes committed, in the
District, similar to that exercised by the courts of the several States, and also special administrative supervision
over certain bodies like the Utility Commission, which
can not be conferred upon the other federal courts of the
United States and finds its source in Art. I, § 8; and (3)
the novel and peculiar jurisdiction which has been conferred upon them from time to time over controversies
which are national in character, and which have no relation to the District other than the fact ,that the executive
and legislative branches of the Government are located in
and perform their important functions at the Capital.
This latter very important jurisdiction might be conferred by Congress upon the other federal courts instead
of being localized in the District for the convenience of
the National Government, as was in fact done by the Act
of February 13, 1925, conferring certain appellate jurisdiction in such matters on the Circuit Courts of Appeals.
This national jurisdiction relates to the National Government and might be exercised anywhere in the United
States.
The granting to the courts of the District of an extensive jurisdiction in purely national matters establishes
their status as courts of the United States and their exercise of judicial power under Art. III of the Constitution.

522

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for Plaintiffs.

289 U.S.

There is -a vast distinction between jurisdiction and
judicial power. The former may be granted, qualified or
taken away at the will of Congress. Congress has frequently increased and diminished the appellate jurisdiction of this Court and created and abolished inferior
courts. But after having created an inferior court of the
United States and defined the subjects over which it
shall have jurisdiction, Congress can not, limit the exercise of the judicial power, because that comes directly
from the Constitution and is not derived from Congress.
Story, J., in Martinv. Hunter'sLessee, 1 Wheat. 305, 328;
Chief Justice Hughes, "The Supreme Court of the United
States," p. 133; Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U.S. 46.
Nor can the fact that Congress has assigned to the
courts of the District of Columbia certain administrative
functions which can not be given to the other federal
courts change their character from judicial to legislative
tribunals.'
It can not be contended that the power that was conferred upon the courts of the District in the granting of
patents has any relation to the government of the District or was granted under the power of exclusive legislation for the District.
The only case in which it was directly decided that the
courts of the District are inferior courts of the United
States under Art. III of the Constitution was James v.
United States, 38 Ct. Cls. 615; 202 U.S. 401.
The only question before the Court in the Bakelite case
was the status of the Court of Customs Appeals. The
opinion does not assert that the courts of the District of
Columbia were established exclusively under the legislative power of Congress over the District. There being no
prohibition in the Constitution, Congress has the right to
give to the District courts the judicial power under Art.
III and to give them the administrative functions under
Art. I; in other words, Congress could exercise its dual

O'DONOGHUE v. UNITED STATES.
516

Argument for the United States.

powers of a national legislature and of a state legislature
in granting jurisdiction to our local courts. McAllister
v. United States, 141 U.S. 174, distinguished. Cf. Cross
v. United States, 145 U.S. 571. See Pitts v. Peak, 50 F.
(2d) 485.
The judicial power granted over places acquired as forts
and dockyards is the judicial power under Art. III plus
the judicial power of the State in which the property is
located; and this latter jurisdiction arises out of the cession by the particular State. The United States, therefore, possesses as to such places a dual power, and it was
this dual power that Chief Justice Taft meant in Keller
v. Potomac Electric Co. 261 U.S., at p. 443, in speaking
of the power of Congress over the District of Columbia.
See Claiborne-AnapolisFerry Co. v. United States, 285
U.S. 382.
Solicitor General Thacher, with whom Messrs. Win. W.
Scott, Robert P. Reeder, Erwin N. Griswold, and H.
Brian Holland were on the brief, for the United States,
in this case and the case next following.
The constitutional provisions in question must be construed in the light of their history and of the development
of our institutions, and not without reference to the distinction which has so clearly been drawn between constitutional and legislative courts.
This Court's decision in Ex parte Bakelite Corp., 279
U.S. 438, is a direct and conclusive authority against the
contention of the plaintiffs. I p that case both the Court
of Claims and the Courts of the District of Columbia
were considered and expressly held to be legislative
courts. Even if that decision is to be regarded as decisive only with respect to the Court of Customs Appeals,
with which it was primarily concerned, the reasoning of
the opinion leaves no room for the contention made by
the plaintiffs here.

524

.OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for the United States.

289 U.S.

It is, of course, well recognized that a constitutional
court may not be empowered to determine legislative or
administrative questions. Hayburn's Case, 2 Dall. 409;
United States v. Ferreira,13 How. 40; Gordon v. United
States, 2 Wall. 561; 117 U.S. 697; Federal Radio Comm'n
v. General Electric Co., 281 U.S. 464. Congress has repeatedly conferred such powers upon the Court of Claims,
and their exercise by that court has not been questioned.
See §§ 12 and 14 of the Act of Mar. 3, 1887, c. 359, '24
Stat. 505, 507; Act of June 25, 1910, c. 409, 36 Stat. 837;
Judicial Code, § 151; In re Sanborn, 148 U.S. 222; Widmayer v. United States, 42 Ct. Cls. 519; Montgomery v.
United States, 49 Ct. Cls. 574. Similar powers have been
vested in and exercised by the courts of the District of
Columbia. Keller v. Potomac Electric Power Co., 261
U.S. 428; Postum Cereal Co. v. CaliforniaFig Nitt Co.,
272 U.S. 693; Federal Radio Comm'n v. General Electric
Co., 281 U.S. 464. The advisory power of the District
of Columbia Courts in patent cases began as early as the
Act of Mar. 3, 1839, c. 88, §§ 11, 13, 5 Stat. 353, 354-355.
Both the majority and minority opinions in the Crowell
case accept the Bakelite case, supra, as authoritative in its
analysis of the distinctions between legislative and constitutional courts. See 285 U.S. at pp. 57-58, 86-91.
In Miles v. Graham, 268 U.S. 501, this Court's attention
was not drawn to the question whether the Court of
Claims is a statutory court or a constitutional court.
This Court has thus repeatedly recognized that the
power of Congress, in legislating for the courts of the
District of Columbia and for the Court of Claims, is free
of the limitations imposed by Art. III of the Constitution.
This does not mean that the tribunals in question are not
courts, or that they do not exercise judicial power. The
exercise of judicial power is common to both legislative
and constitutional courts and determines the status of
neither. Ex parte Bakelite Corp., 279 U.S. 438, 449.

O'DONOGHUE v. UNITED STATES.
516

.525

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE STHERLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
These cases are here on certificates from the Court of
Claims. They involve the same questions, were argued
together at the bar, and may well be disposed of by the
same opinion.
Daniel W. O'Donoghue is an associate justice of the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, having been
duly appointed to that position by the President, by and
with the advice and consent of the Senate. He duly
qualified as such justice on February 29, 1932, and has
ever since been engaged in the performance of the duties
of the office. At the time of his appointment and entry
upon his duties, his salary was fixed by act of Congress
(c. 6, 44 Stat. 919) at the rate of $10,000 per year, which
was paid to him until June 30, 1932.
William Hitz is an associate justice of the Court of
-Appeals of the District of Columbia, having been appointed on December 5, 1930, by the President, and later
confirmed by the Senate. On February 13, 1931, he duly
qualified as such associate justice and has ever since been
engaged in performing the duties of his office. By the
act of Congress already referred to, his salary was fixed at
the rate of $12,500 per year. This amount he received
until June 30, 1932.
By the Legislative Appropriation Act of June 30, 1932,
(c. 314, 47 Stat. 382, 401) Congress provided as follows:
"Sec. 105. During the fiscal year ending June 30, 1933"(d) In the case of the following persons the rate of
compensation is reduced as follows: If more than $1,000
per annum but !' ss than $10,000 per annum, 81/3 per centum;. if $10,000 per annum or more, but less than $12,000
per annum, 10 per centum; if $12,000 per annum or more,
but less than $15,000 per annum, 12 per centum; if

OCTQBER TERM, 1932.

526

Opinion of the Court.

289 US.

$15,000 per annum or more, but less than $20,000 per annum, 15 per centum; if $20,000 per annum or more, 20
per centum."
"Sec. 106. During the fiscal year ending June 30, 1933,
the retired pay of all judges (except judges whose compensation may not, under the Constitution, be diminished
during their continuance in office) and the retired pay
of all commissioned and other personnel (except enlisted)
of the, Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Coast Guard, Coast
and Geodetic Survey, Lighthouse. Service, and the Public
Health Service shall be reduced as follows: If more than
$1,000 per annum but less than $10,000 per annum, .81/3
pbr centum; if $10,000 per annum or more, but less than
$12,000, 10 per centum; if $12,000 per annum or more,
but less than $15,000 per annum, 12 per centum; ff $15,000 per annum or more, but less than $20,000, 15 per
centum; if $20,000 per- annum or more, 20 per centum,
This section shall not operate so as to reduce any rate
of retired pay to less than $1,000 per annum."
-

SPECIAL SALARY REDUCTIONS"

Sec. 107. .(a) During the fiscal year ending June 30,
1933"(5) the salaries and retired pay of all judges (except
judges whose compensation may not, under the Constitution, be diminished during their continuance in office),
if such salaries or retired pay are at a rate exceeding $10,000 per annum, shall be at the rate of $10,000 per annum."
In July, 1932, the Comptroller General of the United
States held that the Court of Appeals and the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia are "legislative" courts
and not" constitutional" courts whose judges are entitled
to the protection of Art. III, § 1, of the Constitution,
which provides:

O'DONOGHUE v. UNITED STATES.
516

Opinion of the Court.

"The judicial power of the United States shall be vested
in one Supreme Court, and in such inferior Courts as the
Congress may from time to time ordain and establish.
The Judges both of the Supreme and inferior Coqrts, shall
hold their offices during good behavior, and shall, at stated
times, receive for their services, a compensation, which
shall not be diminished during their continuance in office."
Thereupon, the disbursing officer of the Department of
Justice, pursuant to the ruling of the Comptroller General, reduced the annual compensation by 10 per cent. in
the case of Justice O'Donoghue, and by 20 per cent. in
the case of Justice Hitz, and over their protest paid to
them for the months of July to December, 1932, inclusive,
their compensation at this reduced rate.
On January 19, 1933, suits were brought in the Court of
Claims to recover the amount of the deductions which
had been made and enforced up to that time.
These suits are based upon the contention that the ruling of the Comptroller General, and the deductions made
in pursuance thereof, are in violation of the provisions
of the appropriation act just quoted, because § 107 specifically excepts from their operation "judges whose compensation may not, under the Constitution, be diminished
during their continuance in office," and these plaintiffs
are such judges. It is averred in the petitions that the
ruling of the Comptroller General and the resulting deductions contravene Art. III, § 1, of the Constitution,
since plaintiffs were appointed to serve during good behavior and to receive a compensation which constitutionally cannot be diminished during their continuance in
office. It is further averred that the Supreme Court and
Court of Appeals of the District are vested by acts of
Congress with all the jurisdiction and all the power conferred on the United States by the Constitution under
Art. III; that such jurisdiction and power have been
exercised by the Court of Appeals from its organization

. 528

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

in 1893, and by the Supreme Court of the District and its
predecessor courts from the establishment of the government; that, therefore, in the organization of these courts
Congress acted in virtue of Art. III, and thereby constituted said courts inferior courts of the United States;
that only to the extent that Congress has enlarged and!
extended the powers of said courts did that body act under
any other than Art. III; and that they are none the less
such inferior courts because, by reason of their location
*at the seat of government, Congress, under Art. I, § 8.*
*hasconferred upon them powers and jurisdiction which it
may not confer upon other federal courts. Each plaintiff
avers a reluctance to institute a suit which may result in
personal benefit to himself, but that he feels it a duty to
the court, to the bar, to the citizens of the District of
Columbia, and to the people of the United States to have
the status of these important courts, defined and settled
as soon as possible.
The Government demurred to the petitions, upon the
ground, among others, that the justices of the District
Supreme Court and Court of Appeals are not "judges of
inferior courts" within the meaning of § 1 of Art. III of
the Constitution, and are, therefore, not "judges whose
compensation may not, under the Constitution, be diminished during the*,, continuance in office," within the
meaning of § 107 of the appropriation act hereinbefore
quoted.
Upon this state of the record the Court of Claims certified the following questions upon which it desires instruc*Art. I,

§ 8, cl. 17: "The Congress shall have power . . . To

exercise exclusive legislation in all cases whatsoever, over such district
(not exceeding ten miles square) as may, by cession of particular States
and the acceptance of Congress, become the seat of the government
of the United States, and to exercise like authority over all places
purchsed by the consent of the legislature of the State in which the
same shall be, for the erection of forts, magazines, arsenals, dockyards,
and other needful buildings."

O'DONOGHUE v. UNITED STATES.
516

529

Opinion of the Court.

tions, under § 3 (a) of the Act of February 13, 1925, c.
229, 43 Stat. 936, 939:
"I. Does Section 1, Article III, of the Constitution of
the United States apply to the Supreme Court [and to.
the Court of Appeals] of the District of Columbia and
forbid a reduction of the compensation of the Justices
thereof during their continuance in office?"
"II. Can the compensation of a Justice of the Supreme
Cort [or of the Court of Appeals] of the District of Columbia be lawfully diminished during his continuance in
office?"
Before entering upon a consideration of the subject, it
is well to observe that Congress has not undertaken by
the legislation under review to assume or indicate any
view of the meaning of the constitutional provision involved, but has left open the question whether these
judges or others are judges " whose, compensation may
not, under the Constitution, be diminished during their
continuance in office." This relieves us from the duty,
always a delicate one, of passing upon the constitutionality of the congressional act, and only requires us to ascertain and determine the meaning and application of the
constitutional provision, to which determination, by the
plain intent of Congress, the act will immediately accommodate itself. That is to say, neither the terms nor intent of the statute, but only the application made of it
by the Comptroller General, will be affected by the, construction which we shall put upon the constitutional
limitation.
The questions propounded by the court below, find no
answer in any conclusive adjudication of this court; and
it will materially assist us in arriving at a correct determination if we shall first consider the great underlying purpose which the framers of the Constitution had in mind
and which led them to .incorporate in that instrument the
provision in respect of the permanent tenure of office
15450°-33---34

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

and the undiminishable character of the compensation of
the judges.
The Constitution in distributing the powers of government, creates three distinct and separate departmentsthe legislative, the executive, and the judicial. This
separation is not merely a matter of convenience or of
governmental mechanism. Its object is basic and vital,
Springer v. PhilippineIslands, 277 U.S. 189, 201, namely,
to preclude a commingling of these essentially different
powers of government in the same hands. And this object is none the less apparent and controlling because
there is to be found in the Constitution an occasional
specific provision conferring upon a given department
certain functions, which, by their nature, would otherwise
fall within the general scope of the powers of another.
Such exceptions serve rather-to emphasize the generally
inviolate character of the plan.
If it be important thus to separate the several departments of government and restrict them to the exercise of
their appointed powers, it follows, as a logical corollary,
equally important, that each department should be kept
completely independent of the others--independent not
in the sense that they shall not co6perate to the common
end of carrying into effect the purposes of the Constitution, but in the sense that the acts of each shall never be
controlled by, or subjected, directly or indirectly, to, the
coercive influence of either of the other departments.
James Wilson, one of the framers of the Constitution and
a justice of this court, in one of his law lectures said that
the independence of each department required that its
proceedings "should be free from the remotest influence,
direct or indirect, of either of the other two powers."
Andrews, The Works of James Wilsbn (1896), Vol. 1,
p. 367. And the importance of such independence was
similarly recognized by Mr. Justice Story when he said
that in reference to each other, neither of the departments

O'DONOGHUE v. UNITED STATES.
516

Opinion of the Court.

"ought to possess, directly or indirectly, an overruling influence in the administration of their respective powers."'
1 Story on the Constitution, 4th ed., § 530. To the same
effect, The Federalist (Madison) No. 48. And see Massachusetts v. Mellon, 262 U.S. 447, 488.
The anxiety of the framers of the Constitution to preserve the independence especially of the judicial depart,ment is manifested by the provision now under review, forbidding the diminution of the compensation of
the, judges of courts exercising the judicial power of the
United States. This requirement was foreshadowed, and
itstvital character attested, by the Declaration of Independence, which, among the injuries and usurpations recited against the King of Great Britain, declared that he
had "made judgds dependent oh his will alone, for the
tenure of their offices, and the amount and payment of
their salaries."
In framing the Constitution,. therefore, the power to
diminish the compensation of the federal judges was
explicitly denied, in order, inter alia, that their' judgment or action might never be swayed in the slightest degree by the temptation to cultivate the favor or avoid the
displeasure of that department which, as master of the
purse, would otherwise hold the power to reduce their
means of support. The high importance of the provision,
as the contemporary history shows, was definitely pointed
out by the leading statesmen of the time. Thus, in The
Federalist, No. 78, Hamilton said-" The complete independence of the courts of justice is peculiarly essential in
a limited Constitution." And, in No. 79--4.' Next to permanency in office, nothing can contribute more to the independence of the judges than a fixed provision for their
support. . . . In the general course of human nature,
a power over a man's subsistence amounts to a power over
his will." (The italics are in the original.)

532

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

Chief Justice Marshall, in the course of the debates of
the Virginia State Convention of 1829-1830 (pp. 616,
619), used the following strong and frequently quoted
language:
"The Judicial Department comes home in its effects to
every man's fireside; it passes on his property, his reputation, his life, his all. Is it not, to the last degree
important, that he [the judge] should be rendered perfectly and completely independent, with nothing to
influence or control him but God and his conscience? . . . I have always thought, from my earliest
youth till now, that the greatest scourge an angry Heaven
ever inflicted'upon an ungrateful and a sinning people,
was an ignorant, a corrupt, or a dependent Judiciary."
In a very early period of our history, it was said, in
words as true today as they were then, that "if they
[the people] value and wish to preserve their Constitution, they ought never to surrender the independence of
their judges." Rawle on the Constitution, 2d ed., 281.
We need not pursue this phase of the subject further.
It is fully discussed in Evans v. Gore, 253 U.S. 245, where
this court (pp. 248-249) said:
"With what purpose does the Constitution provide that
the compensation of the judges 'shall not be diminished
during their continuance in office'? Is it primarily to
benefit the judges, or rather to promote the public weal
by giving them that independence which makes for an
impartial and courageous discharge of the judicial function? Does the provision merely forbid direct diminution, such as expressly reducing the compensation from a
greater to a less sum per year, and thereby leave the way
open for indirect, yet effective, diminution, such as withholding or calling back a part as a tax on the whole? Or,
does it mean that the judge shall have a sure and continuing right to the compensation, whereon he confidently
may rely for his support during his continuance in office,

O'DONOGHUE v. UNITED STATES.
516

Opinion of the Court.

so that he need have no apprehension lest his situation in
this regard may be changed to his disadvantage?"
And, after referring to statements from which we have
quoted and others, the court added (p. 253):
"These considerations make it very plain, as we think,
that the primary purpose of the prohibition against diminution was not to benefit the judges, but, like the clause
in respect of tenure, to attract good and competent men to
the bench and to promote that independence of action and
judgment which is essential to the maintenance of the
guaranties, limitations and pervading principles of the
Constitution and to the administration of justice without
respect to persons and with equal concern for the poor and
the rich. Such being its purpose, it is to be construed, not
as a private grant, but as a limitation imposed in the
public interest; in other words, not restrictively, but in
accord with its spirit and the principle on which it
proceeds.
"Obviously, diminution may be effected in more ways
than one. Some may be direct and others indirect, or
even evasive as Mr. Hamilton suggested. But all which
by their necessary operation and effect withhold or take
from the judge a part of that which has been, promised by
law for his services must be regarded as within the prohibition. Nothing short of this will give full effect to its
spirit and principle."
In the light of the foregoing Views,-time honored and
never discredited-it is not extravagant to say that there
rests upon every federal judge affected nothing less than
a duty to withstand any attempt, directly or indirectly in
contravention of the Constitution, to diminish this compensation, not for his private advantage-which, if that
were all, he might willingly forego-but in the interest of
preserving unimpaired an essential safeguard adopted as
a continuing guaranty of an independent judicial administration for the benefit of the whole people. It was this

534

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

motive that impelled Chief Justice Taney to protest
against the attempt of the Treasury Department to exact
a tax upon the compensation of the judges under an act
of Congress passed in 1862, c. 119, § 86, 12 Stat. 472.
157 U.S., App. 701; Evans v. Gore, supra, pp. 257-259.
The judges of the Court of Appeals of Virginia, as far
back as 1788, in discharge of the same duty, directed to
the members of the state assembly a "respectful remonstrance" against an act which had the effect of reducing
their compensation. 4 Call (Va.) 135, 141. In the
course of that remonstrance these judges said (pp. 143,
145):
"The propriety and necessity of the independence of
the judges is evident in reason and the nature of their office; since they are to decide between government and the
people, as well as between contending citizens; and, if
they be dependent on either, corrupt influence may be
apprehended, sacrificing the innocent to popular prejudice; and subjecting the poor to oppression and persecution by the rich. And this applies more forcibly, to exclude a dependence on the legislature; a branch, of whom,
For
in cases of impeachment, is itself a party.....
vain would be the precautions of the founders of our government to secure liberty, if the legislature, though retrained from changing the tenure of judicial offices, are
at liberty to compel a resignation by reducing salaries to
a copper, . . .
Actuated by like considerations of public duty, as it is
averred, these plaintiffs brought the present suits.
The judges of the Supreme Court and of the Court of
Appeals of the District of Columbia are of equal rank and
power with those of other inferior courts of the federal
system, and plainly within the spirit and reason of the
compensation provision; and also within its intent, unless
there-be&smething in the Constitution, or in the character or organization of the District, or its relations to the

O'DONOGHUE v. UNITED STATES.
516

•535

Opinion of the C6urt.

general government, or in the character of the courts
themselves which precludes that conclusion, Indeed, the
reasons which have been set forth, and which impelled
the adoption of the constitutional limitation, apply with
even greater force to the courts of the District than to
the inferior courts of the United States lQcated elsewhere,
because the judges of the former courts are in closer contact with, and more immediately open to the influences
of, the legislative department, and exercise a more extensive jurisdiction in cases affecting the operations of the
general government and its various departments.
This court has repeatedly held that the territorial courts
are "legislative" courts, created in virtue of the natioijal
sovereignty or under Art. IV, § 3, cl. 2, of the ConstitUtion, vesting in Congress the power "to dispose of and
make all needful rules aid regulations respecting the territory or other property,'belonging to the United States";
and tlat they are not invested with any part of the judicial power defined in the third article of the Constitution. And this rule, as if affects the territories, is no
longer open to question. Do the courts of the District
of Columbia occupy a like situation in virtue of the plenary power of Congress, under Art. I, § 8, el. 17, "To exercise exclusive legislation in all cases whatsoever, over such
district (not exceeding ten miles square) as may, by
cession of particular 'States and the acceptance of Congress, become the seat of the government of the United
States..."?

This inquiry requires a consideration,

first, of the reasons upon which rest the decisions in
respect of the territorial courts.
The authority upon which all the later cases rest is
American Insurance Co. v. Canter, 1 Pet. 511, 546, where
the opinion was delivered by Chief Justice Marshall. The
pertinent question there was whether the judicial power
of the United' States described in Art. III of the Constitution vested in the superior courts of the Territory of

OCTOBER TERM, 19N2.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

Florida; and it was answered in the negative. "The
Judges of the Superior Courts of Florida," the court said,
"hold their offices for four years. These Courts, then,
are not constitutional Courts, in which the judicial power
conferred by the Constitution on the general government,
can be deposited. They are incapable of receiving it.
They are legislative Courts, created in virtue of the general right of sovereignty which exists in the government,
or in virtue of that clause which enables Congress to make
all needful rules and regulations, respecting the territory
belonging to the United States. The jurisdiction with
which they are invested, is not a part of that judicial
power which is defined in the 3d article of the Constitution, but is conferred by Congress, in the execution of
those general powers which that body possesses over the
territories of the United States."
This view was accepted and followed in Benner V.
Porter,9 How. 235, 242-244; Clinton v. Englebrecht, 13
Wall. 434, 447; Hornbuckle v. Tobmbs; 18 Wall. 648, 655;
Good v. Martin,95 U.S. 90,98; Reynolds v. United States,
98 U.S. 145, 154; The City of Panama,101 U.S. 453, 460;
McAllister v. United States, 141 U.S. 174, 180 et seq.;
United States v. McMillan, 165 U.S. 504,510; and Romeu
v. Todd, 206 U.S. 358, 368.
A sufficient foundation for these decisions in respect of
the territorial courts is to be found in the transitory character of the territorial governments. In the McAllister
case, supra, this court, after stating that the Constitution had secured the independence of the judges
of courts in which might be vested the judicial power of
the United States by an express provision that they should
hold office during good behavior and their compensation
should not be diminished during their continuance therein,
concluded (pp. 187-I88)-" The absence from the Constitution of such guaranties for territorial judges was no
doubt due to the fact that the. organization of govern-

O'DONOGHUE v. UNITED STATES.
516

Opinion ot the Court.

ments for the Territories was but temporary, and would
be superseded .when the Territories became States of the
Union." And in the concurring opinion of Mr. Justice
White in Downes v. Bidwell, 182 U.S. 244, 293, these
decisions are said to grow'out of the "presumably ephemeral nature of a territorial government."
In this connection, the peculiar language of the territorial clause, Art. IV, § 3, cl. 2, oF the Constitution, should
be noted. By that clause Congress is given power "to
dispose bf and make all needful rules and regulations
respecting the territory or other property belonging to the
United States." Literally, the word "territory," as there
used, signifies property, since the language is not " territory or property," but "territory or' other property."
There thu§ arises an evident difference between the words
"the territory" and "a territory" of the United States.,
The former merely designates a particular part or parts
of the earth's surface-the imperially extensive real estate holdings of the nation; the latter is a governmental
subdivision which happened to be called' a ",territory,"
but which quite as well could have been called a," colony"
or a "province." "The Territories," it was said in National Bank v. County of Yankton, 101 U.S. 129, 133, "are
but political subdivisions of the outlying dominion of the
United States." Since the Constitution provides for the
admission by Congress of new states (Art. IV, § 3, cl. 1),
it properly may be said that the outlying continental
public domain, of which the United States was the proprietor, was, from the beginning, destined for admission
as a state or states into the Union; and that as a preliminary step toward that foreordained end-to tide over
the period of ineligibility-Congress, from time to time,
created territorial governments, the existence of which
was necessarily limited to the period of pupilage. In that
view it is not unreasonable to conclude that the makers
of the Constitution could never' have intended to give

OCTOBER -TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

permanent tenure of office or irreducible compensation
to a judge who was to serve during this limited and sometimes very brief period under a purely provisional government which, in all cases probably and .Jn some cases
certainly, would cease to exist during his incumbency of
the office.
The impermanent character of these governments, has
often been noted. Thus, it has been said, "The territorial state is one of pupilage at best," Nelson v. United
States, 30 Fed. 112, 115; "A territory, under the constitution and laws of the United States, is an inchoate state,"
Ex parte Morgan, 20 Fed. 298, 305; "During the term of
their pupilage as Territories, they are mere dependencies
of the United States." Snow v. United States, 18 Wall.
317, 320. And in Pollard'sLessee v. Hagan, 3 How. 212,
224, the court characterizes them as "the temporary terri-'
torial governments."
How different are the status and characteristics of the
District of Columbial The pertinent clause of the Constitution (Art. I, § 8, cl. 17) confers the power on Congress
to "exercise exclusive legislation . . . over such district . . . as may . . . become the seat of the government
of the United States." These are words of permanent
governmental po.ver. The District, as the seat of the
national government, is as lasting as the States from
which it was carved or the union whose permanent capital
it became. It could not have been intended otherwise;
and it was thus recognized by the act of acceptance in
1790 (§ 1, c. 28, 1 Stat. 130): ". . the [District] is
hereby accepted for the permanent seat of the government
of the United States."
In the District clause, unlike the Territorial clause,
there is no mere linking of the legislative processes to the
disposal and regulation of ihe public domain-the landed
estates of the sovereign-within which transitory governments to tide over the periods of pupilage may be con-

O'DONOGHUE v. UNITED STATES.
516 -

Opinion of the Court.

stituted, but an unqualified grant of permanent legislative power over a selected area set apart for the enduring
purposes of the general government, to which the administration of purely local affairs is obviously subordinate
and incidental. The District is not an "ephemeral" subdivision of the "outlying dominion of the United States,"
but the capital-the very heart-of the Union itself, to
be maintained as the "permanent" abiding place of all
its supreme departments, and within which the immense,
powers of the general government were destined to be
exer(?ed for the great and expanding population of fortyeight states, and for a future immeasurable beyond the
prophetic vision of those who designed and created it.
Over this District Congress possesses "the combined
powers of a general and 'of a State. government in all
cases where legislation is possible." Stoutenburgh v.
Hennick, 129 U.S. 141, 147. The power conferred by Art.
I, § 8, cl. 17, is plenary; but it does not exclude, in respect
of the District, the exercise by Congress of other appropriate powers 'conferred upon that body by ,the Constitution, or authorize a denial to the inhabitants of any
constitutional guaranty not plainly inapplicable. Circuit
Judge Taft, afterwards Chief Justice of this court, speaking for himself, Judge Lurton,-afterwards an associate justice of this court, and Judge Hammond, in Grether v.
Wright, 75 ,Fed. 742, 756-757, after reciting the foregoing
clause and the organization of the District under it, said:
"It was meet that so powerful a sovereignty should
have a local habitation the character of which it might absolutely control, and the government of which it should
not share with the states in whose' territory it exercised
but a limited sovereignty, supreme, it is true, in. cases
where it could be exercised at all, but much restricted in
the field of its operation. The object of the grant of exclusive legislation over the district was, therefore, national
in the highest sense, and the city organized under the

540

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

grant became the city, not of a state, not of a district, but
of a nation. In the same article which granted the powers of exclusive legislation over its seat of government are
conferred all the other great powers which.. make the nation, including the power to borrow money on the credit
of the United States. He would be a strict constructionist, indeed, who should deny to congress the exercise of
this latter power in furtherance of that of organizing and
maintaining a proper local government at the seat of government. Each is for a national purpose, and the one
may be used in aid of the other."
Cailan v. Wilson, 127 U.S. 540, 550:
"There is nothing in the history of the Constitution
or of the original amendments to justify the assertion
that the people of this District may be lawfully deprived
of the benefit of any of the constitutional guarantees of
life, liberty, and property--especially of the privilege of
trial by jury in criminal cases."
It is important to bear constantly in mind that the
District was made up of portions of two of the original
states of the Union, and was not taken out of the Union
by the cession. Prior thereto its inhabitants were entitled to all the rights, guaranties, and immunities of the
Constitution, among which was the right to have their
cases arising under the Constitution heard and determined by federal courts created under, and vested with the
judicial power conferred by, Art. III. We think it is not
reasonable to assume that the cession stripped them of
these rights, and that it was intended that at the very
seat of the national government the people should be less
fortified by the guaranty of an independent judiciary than
in other parts of the Union.
In Doumes v. Bidwell, supra, [162 U.S. 244,] in the
opinion delivered by Mr. Justice Brown, at pp. 260-261,
it is said:

O'DONOGHUE v. UNITED STATES.
516

Opinion of the Court.

"This District had been a part of the States of Maryland and Virginia. It had been subject to the Constitution, and was a part of the United States. The Constitution had attached to it irrevocably. There are steps
which can never be taken backward. The tie that bound
the States of Maryland and Virginia to the Constitution
could not be dissolved, without at least the consent of
the Federal and state governments to a formal separation. The mere cession of the District of Columbia to
the Federal government -relinquished the authority of
the States, but it did not take it out of the United States
or from under the aegis of the Constitution. Neither
party had ever consented to that construction of -the cession. If, before the District was set off, Congress had
passed an unconstitutional act, affecting its inhigbitants,
it would have been void. If done after the District was
created, it would have been equally void; in other words,
Congress could not do indirectly by carving out the District what 'it could not do directly. The District still
remained a part of the United States, protected by the
Constitution. Indeed, it would have been a fanciful construction to hold that territor- which had been once a
part of the United States ceased to be such by being
ceded directly to the Federal government."
That the Constitution is in effect in the territories as
well as in the District has been so often determined in
the affirmative that it is no longer an open question.
Whether that instrument became operative in virtue of
its own force, or because of its formal extension by acts of
Congress, is a consideration which does not affect the
present inquiry. It is enough that the Constitution is in
force, and the question here, as well as in the case of the
territories, is simply whether the provisions of Art. III
relied upon are applicable. Because, for the peculiar reasons already stated, they are inapplicable to the terri-

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

tories, it does not follow that they are likewise inapplicable to the District where these peculiar reasons do not
obtain. In the concurring opinion of Mr. Justice White
in the Downes case, certain principles applicable to the
situation with which we are dealing are enumerated:
Among them (pp. 289,292) are these: "Every function of
the government being thus derived from the -Constitution,
it follows that that instrument is everywhere and at all
times potential in so far as its provisions are applicable.
In the case of the territories, as in every other
instance, when a provision of the Constitution is invoked,
the question which arises, is not whether the Constitution
is operative, for that is self-evident, but whether the provision relied on is applicable." And then follows, almost
immediately, at page 293, the observation already quoted,
that the decisions in respect of the inapplicability of the
third, Article of the Constitution to the territorial courts
grow out of the "presumably ephemeral nature of a territorial government."
In the opinion delivered by Mr. Justice Brown, following the quotation which we have already made, .it is said
(p. 266):
"As the only judicial power vested in Congress is to
create courts whose judges shall hold their offices during
good behavior, it necessarily follows that, if Congress
authorizes the creation of courts and the appointment of
judges for a limited time, it must act independently of the
Constitution, and upon territory which is not part of the
United States within the meaning of the Constitution.
. ..

It is sufficient to say that this case [American

Insurance Co. v. Canter, supra] has ever since been accepted as authority for the proposition that the judicial
clause of the Constitution has no application to courts
created in the territories, and that with respect to them
Congress has a power wholly unrestricted by it."

O'DONOGHUE v. UNITED STATES.
516

543

Opinion of the Court.

After an exhaustive review of the prior decisions of
this court relating to the matter, the following propositions, among others, were stated ,as being established:
"1. That the District of Columbia and the territories
are not States, within the judicial clause of the Constitution giving jurisdiction in cases between citizens of
different States;
"2. That territories are not States, within the meaning
of Revised Statutes, sec. 709, permitting writs of error
from this court in cases where the validity of a state
statute is drawn in question;
"3. That the District, of Columbia and the territories
are States, as that word is used in treaties with foreign
powers, with respect to the ownership, disposition and
inheritance of. property;
"4. That the territories are not within the clause of the
Constitution providing. for the creation of a Supreme
Court and such inferior courts as Congress may see fit to
establish."
The significant point to be observedin this enumeration
is: that the opinion is careful to distinguish between those
propositions which relate both to the territories and the
District of Columbia, and those which relate to the territories alone; so that when the court in paragraph 4 excepts
from the operation of Art. III of the Constitution only the
territories, it is equivalent to a determination either that
the District was not subject to the same rule, or that the
question in respect of the District had not then been'
decided.
No less significant in, this respect is the decision in
Cross v. United States, 145 U.S. 571, 576. In that case
it was held that a writ of error would not lie to review a
judgment of the Supreme Court of the District, sitting in
appellate review of the conviction of a person of a capital
crime. The government contended that the writ would

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

not lie because the Supreme Court of the District was not
a court of the United States within the intent and meaning
of the act of Congress of February 6, 1889, c. 113, 25 Stat.
655, which provided that in capital cases tried before" any
court of the United States" the final judgment could be
reviewed by this court upon a writ of error. McAllister
v. United States, supra, was cited in support of that contention, but this court said, ".. . it is to be remembered that that case referred to territorial courts only."
And the contention of the government in this respect
was rejected, the writ being dismissed on a different
ground.
In American Insurance Co. v. Canter, supra, the Chief
Justice gave as a conclusive reason why the territorial
courts were not constitutional courts vested with the judicial power designated in Art. III of the Constitution
that-" They are incapable of receiving it." It is not
hard to justify this observation in respect of courts created for a purely provisional government to serve merely
between events; but the District Supreme Court and
Court of Appeals are permanent establishments-federal
courts of the United States and part of the federal judicial
system. Federal Trade Comm'n v. Klesner, 274 U.S.
145, 154, 156:
"The parallelism between the Supreme Court of the
District and the Court of Appeals of the District, on the
one hand, and the district courts of the United States and
the circuit courts of appeals on the other, in the consideration and disposition of cases involving what among the
States would be regarded as within federal jurisdiction, is
complete."
To the same effect, see Claiborne-Annapolis Ferry v.
United States, 285 U.S. 382, 390-391.
'In the light of all that has now been said, we are unable
to perceive upon what basis of reason it can be said that
these courts of the District are incapable of receiving the

O'DONOGHUE v. UNITED STATES.
516

Opinion of the Court.

judicial power under -Art. III. In respect of them we
take the true rule to be that they are courts of the United
States, vested generally with the same jurisdiction as that
possessed by the inferior federal courts located elsewhere
in respect of the cases enumerated in § 2 of Art. III. The
provision of this section of the article is that the" judicial
power shall extend" to the cases enumerated, and it logically follows that where jurisdiction over these cases is
conferred upon the courts of the 'District, the judicial
power, since they are capable of receiving it, is, ipso facto,
vested in such courts as inferior courts of the United
States.
The fact that Congress, under another and plenary
grant of power, has conferred upon these courts jurisdiction over non-federal causes of action, or over quasijudicial or administrative matters, does not affect the
question. In dealing with the District, Congress possesses
the powers which belong to it in respect of territory within
a state, and also the powers of a state. Keller v. Potomac
Elec. Co., 261 U.S. 428, 442-443. "In other words," this
court there said, "it possesses a dual authority over the
District and may clothe the courts of the District not only
with the jurisdiction and powers ,of federal courts in the
several States but with such authority as a State may confer on her courts. Kendall v. United States, 12 Pet. 524,
619. Instances in which congressional enactments have
been sustained which conferred powers and placed duties
on the courts of the District of an exceptional and advisory character are found in Butterworth v. Hoe, 112 U.S.
50, 60; United States v. Duell, 172 U.S. 576, and Baldwin
Co. v. Howard Co., 256 U.S. 35. Subject to the guaranties
of personal liberty in the amendments and in the original
Constitution, Congress has as much power to vest courts
of the Distriet with a variety of jurisdiction and powers
as a state legislature has in conferring jurisdiction on its
courts.
In Prentis v. Atlantic Coast Line Co., supra, we
15450°-33--35

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

held that when ' a state constitution sees fit to unite legislative and judicial powers- in a single hand, there is
nothing to hinder so far as the Constitution of the United
States is concerned.' (211 U.S. 225.) Dreyer v. Illinois,
187 U.S. 71, 83, 84."
If, in creating and defining the jurisdiction of the courts
of the District, Congress were limited to Art. III, as it is
in dealing with the other federal courts, the administrative and other jurisdiction spoken of could not be conferred upon the former. But the clause giving plenary
power of legislation over the District enables Congress to
confer such jurisdiction in addition to the federal jurisdiction which the District courts exercise under Art. III,
notwithstanding that they are recipients of the judicial
power of the United States under, and are constituted in
virtue of, that article.
Since Congress, then, has the same power under Art.'
III of the Constitution to ordain and establish inferior
federal courts in the District of Columbia as in the states,
whether it has done so in any particular instance depends
upon the same inquiry-Does the judicial power conferred extend to the cases enumerated in that article?
If it does, the judicial power thus conferred is not and
cannot be affected by the additional congressional legislation, enacted under Article I, § 8, cl. 17, imposing upon
such courts other duties, which, because that special
power is limited to the District, Congress cannot impose
upon inferior federal courts elseivhere. The two powers
are not incompatible; and we perceive no reason for holding that the plenary power given by the District clause of
the Constitution may be used to destroy the operative
effect of the judicial clause within the District, where,
unlike the territories occupying a different status, that
clause is entirely appropriate and applicable.
The matter has been well stated by Mr. Justice Groner,
speaking for the District Court of Appeals, in Pitts v.

O'DONOGHUE v. UNITED STATES.
516

Opinion of the Court.

Peak, .60 App.D.C. 195, 197, 50 F. (2d) 485, 487, a case
which we had occasion very recently to cite (ClaiborneAnnapolis Ferry v. United States, supra, at p. 391):
"But it by no means follows that because Congress
has seen fit, by virtue of its authority over the District of
Columbia, to confer upon the courts of the District administrative functions, which outside the District it may
not confer upon courts created solely Under article 3, these
courts are any the less created, under that article of the
Constitution, nor do we know of anything in the history of
these courts or in the legislation with relation to them
which would indicate the contrary. We think a reasonable and correct view of the subject would indicate that,
in the creation and organization of the superior courts of
the District of Columbia, Congress has availed of its dual
constitutional right in the first place to establish courts
of law and invest them, as it has, with power and jurisdiction over all cases and controversies [with] which, under the authority of article 3, it has invested the district
courts of the United States, and, in the second place, in
the exercise of the power of a sovereign state, under the
provisions of section 8 of article 1, has further imposed
upon them jurisdiction and power which it cannot impose
upon other like courts functioning outside the District.
There is no inhibition in the Constitution against the
exercise by Congress of this dual power, arising as it does
out of an express grant in the one case (article 3) and an
implied grant in the other (article 1, § 8), nor does its exercise in the one case exhaust its power and prevent its
exercise in the other, and therefore we assume, when Congress created the two courts-the District Courts of the
United States and the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia-and gave to each, within its own sphere,
identical jurisdiction, that it drew its power from the same
source, even though it was necessary it should have recourse to another .provision of the Constitution in order

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

to clothe the courts at the seat of government with other
and additional authority not permissible under article 3."
And see also James v. United States, 38 Ct. Cls. 615,
627-631, which this court on appeal disposed of on another
ground, saying it was unnecessary to decide the constitutional question. 202 U.S. 401.
The conclusion to which we have come is in accord
with the continuous and unbroken practice of Congress
from the beginning of the government. In 1801 (c. 15,
§ 3, 2 Stat. 103, 105) Congress established the Circuit
Court of the District of Columbia, the judges thereof to
hold office during good behavior, giving the court and the
judges the same powers as were vested in the circuit
courts of the United States and the judges thereof. In
1863, that court was superseded by, and its jurisdiction
conferred upon, the present District Supreme Court (c.
91, 12 Stat. 762), the judges to hold their offices during
good behavior. Many acts of Congress refer to these
courts as "courts of the United States." In the District
Code, passed March 3, 1901 (c. 854, 31 Stat. 1189), it is
provided, § 61, that the Supreme Court of the District
"shall be deemed a court of the United States." And
§ 84 provides that it "shall have and exercise the same
powers and jurisdiction as the other district courts of the
United States." In Swift & Co. v. United States, 276
U.S. 311, 324, it was contended that the District Supreme
Court lacked jurisdiction of a case arising under the Sherman Anti-Trust Act, because it was not a district court
of the United States within the meaning of that act; but
this court held that the contention had been adversely
disposed of by Federal Trade Comm'n v. Klesner, supra;
and in a footnote at page 325 attention was called to the
fact that suits to enjoin patent infringements under R.S.
§ 4921 are entertained by the Supreme Court of the District solely by virtue of its general powers as "a District
Court of the United States."

O'DONOGHUE v. UNITED STATES.
516

Opinion of the Court.

The District Court of Appeals was established in 1893
(c. 74, 27 Stat. 434), the judges to hold office during good
behavior. Congress invariably has ixed the same salaries
for the judges of the Supreme Court of the District as for
the judges of the district courts of the United States sitting elsewhere, and the salaries of the judges of the District Court of Appeals the same as for the judges of the
United States circuit courts of appeals. When one has
been increased, the other has been increased in like
amount. Indeed, the congressional practice from the beginning recognizes a complete parallelism between the
courts of the District and the district and circuit courts
of appeals of the United States. See Federal Trade
Comm'n v. Klesner, supra, generally, and especially the
language already quoted.
The protest of Chief Justice Taney apparently did not
bear fruit until 1869, at which time Attorney General
Hoar delivered an opinion in response'to a request of the
Secretary of the Treasury, holding that if the act of 1862
imposed a tax upon the salaries of the President and the
justices of the Supreme and inferior courts of the United
States, it was unconstitutional. 13 Op. Atty. Gen. 161.
Upon this authority the taxes which had been paid were
refunded, and in 1872 a like refund of taxes was made to
the judges of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, as shown by the records and files of the Treasury
Department.
It is true, of course, that Congress, in conferring the
life tenure upon the judges of the courts of the District,
and in doing the other things mentioned above, might
have done so merely as a matter of legislative discretion,
without deeming it to be a matter of constitutional compulsion. Nevertheless, a practice so uniform and continuous indicates, with some degree of persuasive force, that
Congress entertained the view that the courts of the District and the inferior courts of the United States sitting

550

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

elsewhere, stood upon the same constitutional footing. In
any event, it is not without significance that in the acts of
Congress from the beginning of the government to the
present day, nothing has been brought to our attention
that is inconsistent with that view.
The government relies almost entirely upon the decision
of this court in Ex parte Bakelite Corp., 279 U.S. 438.
In that case we held that the Court of Customs Appeals
was a legislative court, not a constitutional court under
Art. III of the Constitution. In-the course of the opinion
attention was called to the decisions in respect of the
territorial courts, and it was said that a like view had
been taken in respect of the status and jurisdiction of the
courts provided by Congress for the District of Columbia.
This observation, made incidentally, by way of illustration merely and without discussion or elaboration, was
not necessary to the decision, and is not in harmony with
the views expressed in the present opinion. "It is a
maxim, not to be disregarded," said Chief Justice Marshall
in Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264, 399, " that general
expressions, in every opinion, are to be taken in connection with the case in which those expressions are used.
If they go beyond the case, they may be respected, but
ought not to control the judgment in a subsequent suit
when the very point is presented for decision. The reason of this maxim is obvious. The question actually before the Court is investigated with care, and considered
in its full extent. Other principles which may serve to
illustrate it, are considered in their relation to the case decided, but their possible bearing on all other cases is seldom completely investigated."
Two cases are cited in support of the dictum in the
Bakelite opinion-Kellerv. Potomac Elec. Co., supra, and
Postum Cereal Co. v. Calif. Fig Nut Co., 272 U.S. 693,
700. The Keller case we have already discussed. It
simply holds that in virtue of its dual power over the

O'DONOGHUE v. UNITED STATES.
516

HUGHiES, C. J., VAN DEVANTER and CARiozo, JJ., dissenting.

District, Congress may vest non-judicial functions in the
courts of the District. We find nothing in that decision
which cannot be reconciled with what we have here said.
In the case of Postum Cereal Co., the court follows the
Keller case in holding that administrative or legislative
functions may be vested in the courts of the District, but
adds that this may not be done with any federal court
established under Art. III of the Constitution. Taken
literally, this seems to negative the view that the superior
courts of the District are established under Art. III. But
the observation, read in the light of what was said in the
Keller case in respect of the dual power of Congress in
dealing with the courts of the District, should be confined
to federal courts in the states as to which no such dual
power exists;. and thus confined, it is not in conflict with
the view that Congress derives from the District clause
distinct powers in respect of the constitutional courts of
the District which Congress does not possess in respect
of such courts outside the District.
We hold that the Supreme Court and the Court of
Appeals of the District of Columbia are constitutional
courts of the United States, ordained and established under Art. III of the Constitution; that the judges of these
courts hold their offices during good behavior, and that
their compensation cannot, under the Constitution, be
diminished during their continuance in office.
In accordance with that view the questions propounded
are answered.
Question No. 1, Yes.
Question No. 2, No.
The CHIEF

JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE VAN

DEVANTER,

and MR. JUSTICE CARDOzo, dissenting.
We are of the opinion that the courts of the District
of Columbia, as this court has repeatedly declared, are

552

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.

HUGHES, C. J., VAN DEVANTER

and CARDOZO, JJ., dissenting. 289 U.S.

not courts established under § 1 of Article III of the Constitution, but are established under the broad authority
conferred upon the Congress for the government of the
District of Columbia by paragraph 17 of § 8 of Article I.
Hence, the limitations imposed by § 1 of Article III, with
respect to tenure and compensation, are not applicable
to judges of these courts. The special authority conferred
for the government of the District of Columbia necessarily includes the power to establish courts deemed to
be appropriate for the District (Kendali v. United States,
12 Pet. 524, 619), including the power 'to fix and alter
tenure and compensation. It is a power complete in itself and derives nothing from § 1 of Article III. It is*
a power not less complete, but essentially the same as
that which is conferred upon the Congress for the governmen, of territories. American Insurance Co. v. Canter,
1 Pet. 511, 546; McAllister v. United States, 141 U.S. 174.
It is not a dual power in the sense that it is derived
from two sources, that is, both from Article III and also
from the constitutional provision for the government of
the District, but is dual only in the sense that the latter
provision confers an authority so broad that it enables
the Congress to invest the courts of the District not only
with jurisdiction and powers analogous to those of federal
courts within the States but also with jurisdiction and
powers analogous to those which States may vest in their
own courts. As the courts of the District do not rest
for their creation on § 1 of Article III, their creation is
not subject to any of the limitations of that provision.
Nor would those limitations, if considered to be applicable, be susceptible of division so that some might be
deemed obligatory and others might be ignored. If the
limitations relating to courts established under § 1 of
Article III applied to the courts of the District of Columbia, they would necessarily prevent the attaching to the
latter courts of jurisdiction and powers of an adminis-

WILLIAMS v. UNITED STATES.
516

Syllabus.

trative sort. It is only because the Congress, in establishing the courts of the District of Columbia, is free
from the limitations imposed by § 1 of Article III that
administrative powers can be, and are, conferred upon
them. Keller v. Potomac Electric Co., 261 U.S. 428, 442,
443; Postum Cereal Co. v. California Fig Nut Co., 272
U.S. 693, 700; Ex parte Bakelite Corp., 279 U.S. 438, 450.
With the question of policy, this court is not concerned, save as policy is determined by the Constitution.
The question is one of constitut'nal interpretation which
has hitherto been deemed to be settled.
WILLIAMS v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 728.

Argued April 12,' 1933.-Decided May 29, 1933.

1. The judicial power of the Court of Claims is not vested in virtue
of Art. III of the Constitution, so as to bring its judges within
the protection of that Article as to tenure of office and compensation. Ex parte Bakelite Corp., 279 U.S. 438. Expressions in
United States v. Klein, 13 Wall. 128, and other cases criticized.
Pp. 567, 568, 581.
2. The Court of Claims, originally an administrative or advisory
body, is, under the existing laws, a court exercising judicial power
and-capable of rendering final judgments reviewable by this Court.
P. 564.
3. Judicial power, apart from that defined by Art. III of the Constitution, may be conferred by Congress upon legislative courts as well
as upon constitutional courts; which is exemplified in the instances
of territorial courts, and also of state courts when sitting in naturalization. proceedings. P. 565.
4. The judicial power of Art. III does not attach to the Court of
Claims in virtue of the consent of the United States to be sued
therein coupled with the clause of that Article extending the
judicial power of the United States to "controversies to which
the United States shall be a party." Expressions in Minnesota v.
Hitchcock, 185 U.S. 373, and Kansas v. United States, 204 U.S.
331, disapproved. Pp. 571, 577.

