506

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

LEIGHTON ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COfURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 735.

Argued May 11, 1933.-Decided May 29, 1933.

The right of the United States to maintain a suit in equity against
stockholders of a corporation to require them to account for distributed corporate assets to the end that such assets may be
applied to taxes due from the corporation to the United States
'and interest thereon from date of assessment against the corporation, was not taken away by § 280 of the Revenue Act of 1926.
P. 509.
61 F. (2d) 530, affirmed.

CERTIORARI

*

to review the affirmance of a decree re-

quiring stockholders to, account for assets of the corporation distributed among them, in order that the funds might
be applied in satisfaction of taxes owed by the corporation
-to the United States.
Mr. Herman Weinberger, with whom Messrs. Walter
C. Fox, Jr., and Blair S. Shuman were on the brief, for
petitioners.
Mr. 'PaulD. Miller, with hom Solicitor General Biggs
and Messrs. Sewall Key and Hayner N. Larson were on
the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In 1921 all assets of Leighton and Co., Inc., of California, were sold and the proceeds distributed pro rata among
stockholders, including petitioners. Nothing remained to
satisfy outstanding corporate obligations.
September, 1925, within the time permitted by statute,
or written waivers, the Commissioner of: Internal ReveSee Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

LEIGHTON v. UNITED STATES.
506

Opinion of the Court.

nue notified the corporation of tax deficiencies for 1918,
1919, and 1920; and on January 16, 1926, he assessed these
against it. There was no contest. Efforts to enforce payment by distraint were unsuccessful. The present equity
suit seeks to compel petitioners severally to account for
corporate property in order that it may be applied toward
payment of taxes due by the company. No. assessment
was made against any petitioner.
The District Court ruled that the distributed assets constituted a trust fund and adjudged that each petitioer
should account for the amount he received, with interest,
from January 16, 1926. The Circuit Court of Appeals
affirmed this judgment. [61 F. (2d) 530.] The matter
comes here by certiorari.
Pertinent provisions of The Revenue Act of 1926, c. 27,
44 Stat. 9, 55, 59, 61, are in the margin.*
Prior to the Revenue Act of 1926, the United States
in an equity proceeding might recover from distributees
*

See. 274. -(a) If in the case of any taxpayer, the Commissioner

determines that there is a deficiency in respect of the tax imposed by
this title, the Commissioner is authorized to send notice of such deficiency to the taxpayer by registered mail. Within 60 days after such
notice is mailed (not counting Sunday as the sixtieth day), the tax-,
payer may file a petition with the Board of Tax Appeals for a redetermination of the deficiency. k]xcept as otherwise provided in subdivision (d) or (f) of this section or in section 279, 282, or 1001, no
assessment of a deficiency in respect of the tax imposed by this title
and no distraint or proceeding in court for its collection shall be made,
begun, or prosecuted until such notice has been mailed to the taxpayer,
nor until the expiration of such 60-day period, nor, if a petition has
been filed with the Board, until th, decision of the Board has become
final. Notwithstanding the provisions of section 3224 of the Rev.
Stats. the making of such assessment or the beginning of such proceeding or distraint during the time such prohibition is in force may
be enjoined by a proceeding in the proper 6ourt.
Sec. 278. (a) In the case of a false or fraudulent return with intent
to evade tax or of a failure to file a return the tax may be assessed,

508

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of tie Court.

289 U.S.

of corporate assets, without
assessment against them, the
/
..value of what they received in order to discharge taxes
assessed against the corporation. "Phillips v. Commissioner, 283 U.S. 589, 592; United States v. Updike, 281
U.S. 489. And this right remained unless taken away
by the specific words or clear intendment of the 1926
enactment.. United States v. Chamberlain, 219 U.S. 250,
261; United Statc,? v. Nashville, C. & St. L. Ry., 249 Fed.
678, 681.
Petitioners rely upon § 280 of that Act and maintain
that while the words of this standing alone would not
suffice to destroy the right, nevertheless when read in connection with §§ 274 (a) and 278 there is enough clearly
or a proceeding in court for the collectiofi of such tax may be begun
without assessment, at any time.
(b) Any 'deficiency attributable to a change in a deduction tentatively allowed under paragraph (9) of subdivision (a) of section 214,
or paragraph (8) of subdivision (a) of section 234, of the Revenue Act
of 1918 or the Revenue Act of 1921, may be assessed, or a proceeding
in court for the collection of such tax may be begun without assessment, at any time.
(c) Where both the Commissioner and the taxpayer have consented
in writing to the assessment of the tax after the time prescribed in
section 277 for its assessment the tax may be assessed at any time
prior to the expiration of the period agreed upon.
(d) Where the assessment of any income, excess-profits, or warprofits tax imposed by this title or by prior Adt of Congress has been
made (whether before or after the enactment of this Act) within the
statutory period of limitation properly applicable thereto, such tax
may be collected by distraint or by a proceeding in court (begun
before or after the enactment of this Act), but only if begun (1) within
six years after the assessment of the tax, or (2) prior to the expiration
of any period for collection agreed upon in writing by the Commissioner and the taxpayer (U.S.C.App., Title 26, Sec. 1061).
Sec. 280. (a) The amounts of the following liabilities shall, except
as hereinafter in this section provided, be assessed, collected, and paid
in the same manner and subject to the same provisions and limitations
as in the case of a deficiency in a tax imposed by this title (including
the provisions in case of delinquency in payment after notice and

LEIGHTON v. UNITED STATES.
506

Opinion of the Court.

to show the purpose of Congress to require an assessment
against them before suit for restitution. And, further,
that the sole remedy available in the present circumstances is the one prescribed by § 280.
The meaning of the statute is not free from uncertainty.
The insistence presented in behalf of the petitioners is at
least plausible, but this has been before the courts several
times and none has approved it. On the other hand, the
right of the United States to proceed against transferees
by suit since the Act of 1926 has been definitely recognized. United States v. Updike, 25 F. (2d) 746 (Dist.
Ct.); affirmed, C.C.A. 32 F. (2d) 1. Phillips v. Commissioner, 42 F. (2d) 177; affirmed, 283 U.S. 589, 593 (Note);
U ited States v. Greenfield Tap & Die Corp., 27 F. (2d)
933 (Dist. Ct.); United States v. Garfunkel, 52 F. (2d)
727 (Dist. Ct.).
Considering the established rule. of strict construction,
the views expressed in the, cases cited-, also -the possible
conflict with other statutory provisions pointed out in
those opinions, we cannot accept petitioners' interpreta'tion of the statute. The present suit was properly
brought, we think, and the courts below reached the correct conclusion. There was no abuse of discretion in.
respect of interest.
Affirmed.
demand, the provisions authorizing distraint and nrocepdings in court
for collection, and the provisions prohibiting claims and suits for

refunds):
(1) The liability, at law or in equity, of a transferee of property
of a taxpayer, in respect of the tax (including interest, additional
amounts, and additions to the. tax provided by law) imposed upon
the taxpayer by this title or by any prior income, excess-profits, or
war-profits tax Act.
(b) The period of limitation for assessment of any such liability of
atransferee or fiduciary shall be as follows:
(1) Within one year after the expiration of the period of limitation
for assessment against the taxpayer.

