ROYAL IND. CO. v. AMER. BOND CO.
159

165

Statement of th ' Case.

Lumber Co., 199 U.S. 487, 497; Ex parte. United States,
226 U.S. 420, 424; Washington v. Miller, 235 U.S. 422,

428.
The Court of Appeals has jurisdiction of both issues
presented by the appeal from the decree of the Supreme
Court.
Question No. 1 answered " Yes!'
Question No. 2 answered " Yes."
MR. JUSTICE CARDozo

concurs in the result.

ROYAL INDEMNITY CO. ET AL. v., AMERICAN
BOND & MORTGAGE CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT
Nos. 585 and 586.

Argued March 21, 1933.-Decided April 10, 1933

1. The principal place of business of a corporation does not cease
to be such, for the purposes of jurisdiction in bankruptcy, because
its assets and affairs were in the custody and control of equity
-receivers for the greater portion of six months preceding the filing
of the petition.. P. 167.
2. This is. equally true whether the purpose of the receivership is to
wind up, or is merely to rehabilitate, tle business. P. 169.
3. A state statute forbidding the transfer, except in the usftal course
of business, of the franchises or assets of a corporation, without the
Iassent of stockholders, does not prevent the filing of a voluntary
petition in bankruptcy by authority of a resolution of the board of
directors. P. 170.
4. Creditors of a corporation have no standing to attack an adjudication in bankruptcy based on a petition filed by 'authority of the
directors, although a statute of the State of incorporation forbids
transfer, except in the usual course of business, of the franchises or
assets of the company, without the assent of stockholders. P. 171.
61 F. (2d) 875, affirmed.

288 U.S. 596, to review a decree affirming
orders of the district court refusing to vacate an adjudication of bankruptcy.
CERTIORARI,

166

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289US.

Mr. Selden Bacon, with whom Mr. Saul S. Myers was
on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. William E. Leahy, with whom Messrs. Edmund M.
Toland, William J. Hughes, Jr., and A. L. Schapiro were
on the brief, for respondent.

MR.

JUSTICE ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These cases present two questibns:
Has the location where a corporation maintained its
main office and -transacted most of its business ceased to
be the principal place of business for the purposes of
jurisdiction in bankruptcy if, during the greater portion
of six months preceding, the filing of the petition, the
company's assets and affairs were in custody and control
of equity receivers?
Have creditors standing to ask the vacation of an adjudication based on a petition filed by authority of the directors of the bankrupt. where a statute of the state of
incorporation forbids transfer, except in the usual course
of business, ,of the. franchises or assets of the company;
without stockholders' assent?
The relevant facts may be briefly stated.
The respondent, a Maine corporation, had its principal
place of business in Chicago, Illinois. May 21, 1931, unsecured creditors brought suit against it in the United
States District Court for Northern Illinois, averring solvency and existing difficulty in meeting pressing' obligations, and praying the appointment of receivers. On the
same day other creditors filed a petition in bankruptcy
in the same court. The company appeared in the equity
suit and consented to the granting of the prayer of the-bill.
Receivers were appointed, took possession of the assets
and proceeded to administer them. An answer to the
petition in bankruptcy denied insolvency or acts of bankruptcy. May 25, 1931, the Royal Indemnity Company

ROYAL IND. CO. v. AMER. BOND CO.
165

167

Opinion of the Court.

and others filed a petition in bankrifptcy against the respondent in the United States Court for the District of
Maine. Answer was made denying insolvency and the
commission of the alleged acts of bankruptcy. The company sought to transfer the cause to the court in Illinois, which the petitioners 'opposed. Thereafter the petitioners moved in the Illinois bankruptcy proceeding to
dismiss the petition, for alleged defects, and'to stay all
proceedings under General Order No. 6, pending hearing
upon the involuntary petition in Maine. The court denied the motion to dismiss, ' but granted a stay effective
until hearing in the Maine district. September 5, 1931,
the respondent withdiew its answers in the Illinois and
Maine bankruptcy cases, thus abandoning its contest of
adjudication in both. On the same day it. filed a voluntary petition in the Illinois District Court, and adjudication was immediately entered
September 10, 1931, the petitioners prayed the Illinois
court to vacate the adjudication and for a stay pending
action in Maine. The motion to vacate raised the questions of law we have stated. The court set the cause
down under Equity Rule 29 for disposition of these questions. By order entered April .6, 1932, it decided them
adversely to the petitioners. The respondent having
filed an answer denying certain of the averments of the
petition, the court directed that the cause be set for hearing so that the petitioners, if they desih.d, might offer
proof. No' evidence was offered, and in default, thereof
the court held a hearing on the petition and'answer, and
on May 3, 1932 made a final order refusing to vacate.the
adjudication. Separate appeals were allowed from both
orders, and the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed them.
The case is here on certiorari.
First. The Bankruptcy Act invests each district court,
as a court of bankruptcy, with jurisdiction to "adjudge
persons bankrupt who have had their principal place of

168

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 US.

business, resided, or had their domieile" within the
court's territorial jurisdiction,. "for the preceding six
months, or the greater portion thereof."1 For three
months and ten days of the six months preceding the filing of the respondent's voluntary petition, its affairs had
been in the control of receivers having the usual powers
of management. The decree appointing them included
an injunction restraining the corporation, its officers and
agents, from interfering with, transferring, selling, or disposing of the property, assets or ihcome of the respondent,
or taking possession or attempting to sell or dispose of
any part of the same. . The result, say the petitioners, is
that the corporation thereupon ceased to have a principal
place of business in the Northern District of Illinois.
The claim is. that the Bankruptcy Act refers to the place
where the bankrupt is doing business, and not to a place
where a business the company once owned is being conducted by someone else; that the business is not a separate entity or essence irrespective of the identity of the
person conducting it. The business is said to have passed
out of the hands of the respondent and to have been taken
over in such sense that the company ceased to be in the
business theretofore conducted at its former place of
business, even though the business itself, as such, was
continued by the receivers.
The argument ignores the practical purpose of the
statute as applied to such a situation. The decree in
equity and its execution by officers of the court did not
change the ownership of the assets or of the business.
The corporation continued to have the only business
owned before the appointment of receivers, though the
actual conduct of its operations was for the time being
vested in the court's appointees. Its corporate existence
zU.S.C.,

Tit. 11, § 11.

tion includes corporations.

The word "persons"

as used in this sec-

U.S.C., Tit. 11, § 1 (19).

ROYAL IND CO. v. AMER. BOND CO.
165

169

Opinion of the Court.

and functions as a corporation continued. Whether its
affairs were in the course of winding up or were being
managed in the hope of restoration of full control to the
corporate agencies is immaterial. Until a winding up
had been effected, the business formerly conducted by the
company in Chicago continued to be the respondent's
business and not that of another, and the place where
that business was conducted, whether by receivers or by
the corporate officers, still remained the "principal place
of business," in the common acceptation of the phrase.
In these days of corporate activity it is not unusual for a
company chartered in one of the states to conduct most,
if not all, of its business in another state far removed
from that of incorporation. Considerations of convenience no doubt prompted the Congress to permit the
initiation of a bankruptcy in the state where the business
is in fact transacted rather than that of the domicile,
where often none is done. Unnecessary inconvenience
and expense may be inflicted upon creditors if they are
required to participate in a proceeding conducted hundreds or thousands of miles from the situs of the bankrupt's activities, where the books and records are usually
kept. That Congress was mindful of this is evident from
the provisions for transfer of a cause by one court of
bankruptcy to another where a proceeding is pending
against the same bankrupt, for the greater convenience of
the parties in interest 2 We should therefore construe
the language of the act so as to effectuate the evident
purpose of the legislation, and not so narrowly as to defeat the true intent of Congress. We hold that the District Court for the Northern District of Illinois, in re'The respondent petitioned the Maine District Court to transfer
the proceeding there initiated to the Illinois District Court, as authorized by U.S. Code, Tit. 11, §§ 11 (19) and 55. An order for such
transfer was made, 58 F. (2d) 379, for the reason that administration
in Illinois would be more convenient to the parties in interest.

170

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

289 U.S.

spect of respondent's principal place of business, had
jurisdiction to entertain the petition.3
Second. The Revised Statutes of Maine, Chap. 56, under the caption "Rights of Minority Stockholders,"
enact:
"SEc. 63. Corporation not to sell franchises or entire
property without consent of stockholders. No corporation shall sell, lease, consolidate or in any mainner part
with its franchises, or its entire property, or any of its
property, corporate rights or privileges essential to the
conduct of its corporate business and purposes, otherwise
than in the ordinary and usual course of its business, except with the consent of its stockholders at an annual or
special meeting, the call for which shall give notice of the
proposed sale, lease or consolidation. All such sales,
leases and consolidations shall be subject to the provisions
of this and the eleven, following sections, and to-the prior
lien of stockholders as therein defined."
After providing that the act shall not apply to mortgages of corporate property, the sections following regulate methods of effecting consolidations, the valuation and
payment for the stock of dissenting minority shareholders,
etc. We are told that this statute prohibits the filing of a
voluntary petition in bankruptcy by authority of a resolution of the board of directors, and that a shareholders'
vote is required to authorize such action... No case decided by the Maine courts is cited in support of this assertion. But it is said that the'filing of such a petition is A
conveyance of all of the corporate property, and so plainly
within the statutory prohibition. We cannot agree.
"Compare In re C. Moench & Son Co., 130 Fed. 685; Tiffany v.
La Plume Condensed Milk Cb., 141 Fed. 444; In re Monarch Oil
Corp., 272 Fed. 524; In re American & British Mfg. Co., 300 Fed.
839. Contra, In re Perry Aldrich Co., 165 Fed. 249; In. re McNally Co., 208 Fed. 291."

ROYAL IND. CO. v. AMER. BOND CO.
165

171

Opinion of the Court.

The petition in a voluntary or involuntary proceeding is
a pleading. The entry of an adjudication vests title in
the trustee, and this is the act of the court, not of the
petitioner. Moreover, it seems too plain to need elaboration that the statute does not in terms affect the initiation
of a bankruptcy proceeding, and was passed for a wholly
purpose.
different
We might
rest our decision as to the second question
upon this ground. But there is another equally persuasive. Statutes such as the one relied on are intended
for the protection of stockholders and have nothing to
do with the interests or rights of creditors. Even if action of directors authorizing the filing of a voluntary petition, or admitting inability of the corporation to pay
its debts and its willingness on that ground to be adjudged
a bankrupt, thus creating an act of bankruptcy under § 21
of the Act,' were in excess of the authority conferred, or
otherwise invalid, creditors could not for that reason attack the consequent. adjudication. 5 The question is
purely one of the internal management of the corporation. Creditors have no standing to plead statutory requirements not intended for their protection. If the
stockholders' rights had been infringed, and they chose
to waive them, a creditor could not assert them in opposing an adjudication.
The judgments are
Affirmed.
U.S.C., Tit. 11, § 21 (a) (5).
"See In re Guanacevi Tunnel Co., 201 Fed. 316; In re United
Grocery Co., 239 Fed. 1016; In re Ann Arbor Mach. Corp., 274 Fed.
24; In re E: T. Russell Co., 291 Fed. 809; In re A. C. Wagy & Co., Inc.,
22 F. (2d) 9; In re Pneumatic T. S. eo., 60 F. (2d) 524; Chicago
Bank of Commerce v. Carter, 61 F. (2d, 986. Contra: In re Bates
Machine Co., 91 Fed. 625; Home Powder Co. v. Gels, 204 Fed. 568;
In re Russell Wheel & Foundry Co., 222 Fed. 569; In re Standard
Shipyard Co., 262 Fed. 522.

