OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Sylabus.

256 U. S.

MR. JusTIcE BRANDEis delivered the opinion of the

court.
This case comes here on writ of certiorari (251 U. S. 550)
to the Supreme Court of North Carolina, which affirmed
(178 N. Car. 325) a judgment of $21 against the NorfolkSouthern Railroad Company in favor of Owens, a shipper.
The amount was assessed under a statute of the State
as a penalty for undue delay in making delivery of an
intrastate shipment made March 27, 1918. At that time
the railroad was in the possession and control of the Government, and was being operated by the Director General
under the Federal Control Act of March 21, 1918, c. 25,
40 Stat. 451. The only question presented for decision
is whether the company was liable for the penalty. We
are of opinion that it was not, for the reasons stated in.Missouri PacficR. R. Co. v. Au, decided this day, ante, 554.
Reversed.

WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH COMPANY
ESTEVE BROTHERS & COMPANY.

v.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT, OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 491.

Argued April 12, 13, 1921.-Decided June 1, 1921.

A company engagd in transmitting telegraphic messages in this
country and by cable between here and France, established a tariff
offering a lower rate for unrepeated and a higher rate for repeated
messages, and limiting its liability for mistakes in transmitting unrepeat messages to the tolls accruing to it therefrom, and filed
the tariff with the Interstate Commerce Commission under the
Interstate Commerce Act, as amended June 18, 1910, c. 309, § 7, 36
Stat. 539; an unrepeated message sent by plaintiffs from Spain
passed over other lines to Havre, where it was received by the com-

WESTERN UN. TEL. CO. v. ESTEVE BROS. & CO. 567
566.

Counsel for Parties.

pany and sent to .New Orleans, an error being introduced on the land
lines in this country which caused the plaintiffs heavy loss. The
provision limiting liability was not expressed on the blank used in
sending; nor did the senders know of its adoption and filing. Held:
1. Whatever the legal incidents of the transmission over the foreign
lines, the company in carrying the mege over its own lines from
Havre was governed by the Interstate Commerce Act, as amended
P. 570.
2. The senders of the message were bound as a matter of law by the
provision limiting liability, without regard to their knowledge or
assent, because it was a part of a lawfully established rate which
could not be departed from without creating an undue preferene
or advantage in violation of 13 of the statute. P. 570. Boston &
Maine Railroad v. Hooker, 2.3 U. S. 97; GaIreston, Harrisburg& San
Antonio Ry. Co. v. Woodbury? 254 U. S. 357.
3. Quare, Whether the rule that carriers of goods, in order to limit
liability for negligence, must offer an alternative rate attended by
full liability, (Union Padif R. R. Co. v. Burke, 255 U. S. 317),
applies to telegraph and cable companies? P. 574.
4. Where a cable company offered a lower rate, with limited liability,
for unrepeated messages, and a higher rate for repeated messages,
with a higher but still limited liability, held, that the senders of an
unrepeated message who paid the lower rate could not escape its attendant limitation ipon the gound that liability under the higher
was also limited, since the latter limitation, if invalid, would not bind
those who used the higher rate, and the question of its validity was
not material in the case. P. 575.
268 Fed. Rep. 22, reversed.

CEToIRAw to review a judgment of the Circuit Court
of Appeals affirming a judgment rendered against the
present petitioner, by the District Court, in an action for
damages resulting from a mistake in a telegram. The
facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Rush Taggartand Mr. John G. Milunzm, with whom
Mr. Francis Rapond Stark, Mr. Joseph L. Egan and
Mr. W. B. Spencer were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Monte M. Lemann, with whom Mr. J. Blanc Monroe was on the brief, for respondent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JuSm

25 U. S.

BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the

court.
In September, 1917, the Western Union Telegraph
Company delivered to Esteve Brothers & Company at
New Orleans, Louisiana, an unrepeated cable message
from the latter's main office at Barcelona, Spain, directing
a sale for future delivery of two thousand bales of cotton.
The message actually sent had directed the sale of two
hundred bales. The error in transmission resulted in a loss
to Esteve Brothers & Company of $31,095. To recover
compensation for this loss they sued the Western Union
in a state court of Louisiana. The case was removed to
the Federal District Court and there was tried by jury
upon these additional stipulated facts:
The message was sent over lines of the Spanish Government Telegraph from Barcelona to Paris and thence
over lines of the French Government to Havre. There
it was delivered to the Western Union, transmitted by its
cable to New York City and thence over its land lines to
New Orleans. The error in transmission occurred on these
land lines. The charge of $6.60, paid at Barcelona for
transmitting the message, represented the sum of the
local rates on the several connecting lines. The Western
Union's share was $4.65; and of this $3.75 was apportioned
to the cable system and 90 cents to the land lines. This
Western Union rate was established by its tariff of telegraph and cable rates, in force since some time prior to
June 18, 1910. Under the act of that date, c. 309, 36
Stat. 544, making telegraph and cable companies subject
to the Act to Regulate Commerce, this tariff had been
filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission in May,
1916, by its permission and pursuant to an appropriate
resolution of the company. The tariff so filed embodied
the long used classification of messages, rules and regulations. including the provision that the company "shall not

WESTERN UN. TEL. CO. v.ESTEVE BROS. & CO. 569
566.

Opinion of the Court.

be liable for mistakes . . . in transmission
of any unrepeated message, beyond the amount of that
portion of the tolls which shall accrue to it." The plaintiffs did not in fact assent to this limitation of liability.
They did not, in sending the message at Barcelona, use a
blank containing the provisions so limiting liability. They
did not have actual knowledge oi the resolution of the
company or of the filing of the ta.Js with the Interstate

Commerce Commission.
The plaintiffs contended at the trial that in view of
the above facts they were entitled to a verdict for the full
amount of their loss. The company contended that, since
the message had not been repeated, the verdict should be
limited to $4.65, the amount received by it as toils. A
verdict was directed for $31,095 with interest; judgment
thereon was affirmed by the United States Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, 268 Fed. Rep. 22; and
a petition for writ of certiorari was granted. 254 U. S.
624. The sole question presented for our decision is the
amount of damages recoverable.
For more than fifty years prior to the transaction here
in suit the Western Union had maintained these two
classes of rates for general cable and telegraph servime.
The usual or basic rate was for service practically at the
sender's risk, liability being limited to the amount of the
toll collected. Another special rate entitled the sender
to have the message repeated back to the point of origin
and rendered the company liable in case of mistake or
nondelivery up to fifty times the amount of the extra
charge. The extra charge for this additional service was
for telegrams one-half and for cables one-quarter of the
basic rate. In Primrose v. Western Union Telegraph Co.,
154 U. S. 1, decided in 1894, this classification of rates
and the limitations upon the company's liability were
declared by this court to be reasonable and valid, in the
absence of willful misconduct or gross negligence. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

limitation upon the company's common-law liability was
held to be in the nature of contract; and this liability unlike that of a common carrier, was not an insurer's. It
was merely for the damage flowing from failure to use
due care in transmission. Primrose v. Western Union
Telegraph Co., supra, 14. Since the limitation of liability
was in the nature of contract, the provision had to be
brought home to the sender of a message in order to be
legally binding upon him. Assent by the sender was
ordinarily established if the message was written upon
one of the company's blanks which set forth the limitation
of liability. Primrose v. Western Union Telegraph Co.,
supra, 25; compare Cau v. Texas & Pacific Ry. Co., 194
U. S, 427, 431. Whether, in view of long established
practice, the mere sending of a message, although not

written on such a blank, imported assent to the usual
terms of the rate involved then an issue of fact. See Neui
Jersey Nauigation Co. v. MercMants' Bank, 6 How. 344,
383. Ie question presented for our decision is whether
since the amndment of June 18, 1910, to the Act to
Regulate Commerce, the sender is, without assent in fact,
bound as matter of law by the provision limiting liability,
because it is a part of the lawfully established rate.
The Act of June 18, 1910, c. 309, § 7, 36 Stat. 539, 544,
broadened the scope of the Act to Regulate Commerce to
include "telegraph, telephone, and cable companies

(whether wire or wireless) engaged in sending messages
from [a] State . . . to any foreign country." And
whatever may have been the legal incidents of transmitting the message from Barcelona to Havre under Spanish
and French law, the Western Union in sending the message over its own lines from Havre to New Orleans was
governed by the provisions of that act. Gaveston, Harrisburg & San Antonio Ry. Co. v. Woodbury, 254 U. S.
357. In the third paragraph of J 1 of the amended act
Congress provided that messages might be "classified

ESTEVE BROS. & CO. 571
WESTERN UN. TEL. CO. v,.

566.

Opinion of the Court.

into day, night, repeated, unrepeated, letter, commercial,
press, Government, and such other classes as are just and
reasonable, and different rates [might] be charged for
the different classes of messages." Acting, in May, 1916,
under the authority of that provision, the Western Union
by appropriate action approved the tariff involved in the
present case and by permission of the Interstate Commerce
Commission filed with it the tariff, including the provisions here in question. The company was not required
so to do by the terms of the act or by any order of the
Commission; compare 25th Annual Report I. C: C. (1911)
pp. 5, 6. But the rate, long before established, then
formally adopted and filed, was thereafter the only lawful rate for an unrepeated message, and the limitation of
liability became the lawful condition upon which it was
sent. Postal Telegraph-Cable Co. v. Warren-Godwin
Lumber Co., 251 U. S. 27, 30; Clay County Produce Co.
v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 44 1. C. C. 670, 674.
The lawful rate having been established, the company
was by the provisions of § 3 of the Act to Regulate Commerce prohibited from granting to anyone an undue preference or advantage over the public generally. For, as
stated in Postal Telegraph-Cable Co. v. WarrenGodwin
Lumber Co., supra, 30, the "Act of 1910 was designed to
and did subject such companies as to their interstate
business to the rule of equality and uniformity of rates."
If the general public upon paying the rate for an unrepeated message accepted substantially the risk of error
involved in transmitting the message, the company could
not, without granting an undue preference or advantage
extend different treatment to the plaintiffs here. The
limitation of liability was an inherent part of the rate.
The company could no more depart from it than it could
depart from the amount charged for the service rendered.
The Act of 1910 introduced a new principle into the
legal relations of the telegraph companies with their

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

patrons which dominated and modified the principles
previously governing them. Before the act the companies
had a common-law liability from which they might or
might not extricate themselves according to views of
policy prevailing in the several States. Thereafter, for
all messages sent in interstate or foreign commerce, the
outstanding consideration became that of uniformity and
equality of rates. Uniformity demanded that the rate
represent the whole duty and the whole liability of the
company. It could not be varied by agreement; still less
could it be varied by lack of agreement. The rate became, not as before a matter of contract by which a legal
liability could be modified, but a matter of law by which
a uniform liability was imposed. Assent to the terms of
the rate was rendered immaterial, because when the rate
is used, dissent is without effect. This principle was
established in eases involving the limitation upon a
carrier's liability for baggage by Boston & Maine Raioad
v. Hooker, 233 U. S. 97, and Galeston, Harrisburg& San
AntonioRy.Co. v. Woodbury, 254 U. S. 357. In the former
cam it was said, "If the charges filed were unreasonable,
the only attack that could be made upon such regulation

[limiting liability] would be by proceedings contesting
their reasonableness before the Interstate Commerce
Comminion. While they were in force they were equally
binding upon the railroad company and all passengers
whose baggage was transported by carriers in interstate
commerce." So here the limitation of liability attached to
the unrepeated cable rate is binding upon all who send
messages to or from foreign countries until it is set aside

as unreasonable by the Commission.
It is strongly argued that the rule is not applicable to
the situation before us, because of the difference in the
provisions of law which govern the establishment of railroad and of telegraph rates. The railroad rate is established, and can only be established by filing the tariff with

WESTERN UN. TEL. CO. v. ESTEVE BROS. & CO. 573
566.

Opinion of the Court.

the Commission. Telegraph companies may initiate
rates without filing tariffs with the Commission, (Clay
County Produce Co. v. Western Union Telegraph Co.,
supra). Plaintiffs insist that it is the filing and subsequent
publication of the railroad rate which gives it the force of
law and requires the shipper to take notice of it. But
the contention, by dwelling unduly upon the procedural
features of the act, would defeat the end which Congress
had in view. Both railroad and telegraph-cable rates are
initiated by the carrier. It is true that a railroad rate
does not have the force of law unless it is filed with the
Commission. But it is not true that out of the filing of
the rate grows the rule of law by which the terms of this
lawful rate conclude the passenger. The rule does not
rest upon the fiction of constructive notice. It flows from
the requirement of equality and uniformity of rates laid
down in § 3 of the Act to Regulate Commerce. Since any
deviation from the lawful rate would involve either an undue preference or an unjust discrimination, a rate lawfully established must apply equally to all, whether there
is knowledge of it or not. Congress apparently concluded,
in the light of discrimination theretofore practiced by
railroads among shippers and localities, that in transportation by rail equality could be secured only by provisions involving the utmost definiteness and constant
official supervision. Accordingly by § 6 it forbade a
carrier of goods from engaging in transportation unless
its rates had been filed with the Commission; and it prohibited, under heavy penalties, departure in any way
from the terms of those rates when filed. In the case of
telegraph and cable companies Congress appears to have
considered that such stringent provisions were not required to secure the end in view. It did not make filing
with the Commission a condition precedent to the existence of a lawful telegraph and cable rate. When, therefore, the Western Union initiated and established this

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

reasonable rate, the principle of equality and uniformity
laid down in § 3 required that it should have exactly the
same force and effect as the rate initiated by a rail carrier
and filed according to the provisions of § 6.
It was suggested that the attempted limitation of liability must fail under the rule recently applied in Union
Pacific R. R. Co. v. Burke, 255 T. S. 317; because both
the alternative rates offered in the Western Union tariff
for cable messages were for limited liability, and because,
therefore, no offer was made to the sender of a rate under
which the company would assume full liability for all
losses suffered through its negligence. It is by no means
clear that the rule of the Burke Case-established for
common carriers of goods-should be applied to telegraph
and cable companies. See the PrimroseCase, supra, p. 14.
In any event, it is not applicable here. The Western
Union did not, as in the case of telegrams, offer to send
cable messages upon a- special valuation to be made by
the sender and paid for by an extra charge "based on
such value equal to one-tenth of one per cent. thereof."
But it offered alternative rates for repeated and for unrepeated cable messages. This long-established classification was expressly recognized as just and reasonable
for cable as well as for telegraph messages in the amendment made by the Act of June 18, 1910, to § 1 of the Act
to Regulate Commerce. The provision in the terms
offered by the company is:
"To guard against mistakes or delays the sender of a
cable message should order it repeated, that is, telegraphed back to the originating office for comparison.
For this, one-quarter of the unrepeated cable message
rate is charged in addition. Unless otherwise indicated on
its face this is an unrepeated cable message and paid for
as such.
" .
this company shall not be liable for mistakes
or delays in transmission or delivery . . . of any un-

SUTTON v. UNITED STATES.
566.

Syllabus.

repeated message, beyond the amount of that portion of the
tolls which shall accrue to this company; . . . [nor]
of any repeated message, beyond fifty times the extra
sum received by this company from the sender for repeating such message over its own lines.
The repeated rate, offering greater accuracy and greater
liability in case of error, was open to anyone who wished
to pay the extra amount for extra security. Whether
the limitation of liability prescribed for the repeated
message would be valid as against a sender who had endeavored, by having the message repeated, to secure the
greatest care on the part of the company, we have no
occasion to decide, because it is not raised by the facts
before us. It is enough to sustain the limitation of liability
attached to the unrepeated rate that another special rate
was offered for messages of value and importance, and
not availed of. The fact that the alternative rate had
tied to it a provision which, if tested, might be found to
be void, is not material in a case where no effort was made
to take advantage of it.
Reversed.
MR.JusTIcE PrrNEY and MR.JUSTICE CLAxm

dissent.

SUWrON, TRUSTEE OF ESTATE OF HILLSBORO
DREDGING COMPAN-Y, BANKRUPT, v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 307.

Argued April 29, 1921.-Decided June 1, 1921.

1. Acts appropriating specific amounts for the improvement of a
navigable channel and for "completing " the improvement, with
provision for using the fund in the prosecution of the work if in-

