CHOCTAW, 0. & G. R. R. CO. v. MACKEY.

531

Statement of the Case.

CHOCTAW, OKLAHOMA & GULF RAILROAD COMPANY ET AL. v. LACKEY, AS COUNTY
TREASURER OF HUGHES COUNTrY, OKLAHOMA, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEAL
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 211.

FOR THE

Argued April 21, 1921.-Decided June 1, 1921.

1. The railroad right of way and station grounds here in question,
now constituting, with the consent of Congress, parts of a through
line of an extensive interstate system, are not exempt from state
special tax assessments upon the ground that they are parts
of a federal instrumentality, though originally granted by Congress
with a purpose to develop coal lands of the Choctaw Nation,
and though coal mines leased from the tribe are served by the
railroad. P. 535
2. A special assessment for a street improvement, levied by a city
under Oklahoma Comp. Laws, 1909, § 724, on railroad property

abutting on the improved street and designated on a map prepared
by the city engineer, he/d to have sufficiently identified the property.
P. 537.
3. The removal of such map from the city files and its possession
meanwhile by purchasers of the improvement bonds, did not invalidate the assessment. the railroad companies not having been injured
or misled by its absence and having had full knowledge of the assessment proceedings and the improvement. P. 538.
4. A railroad right of way and station grounds in Oklahoma, owned
by a company in fee but subject to a right of reverter in the Creek
Nation in case they cease to be used for railroad purposes, are liable
to special assessment, under the Oklahoma laws, for a street improvement enhancing the value of the railroad use. P. 538.
261 Fed. Rep. 342, affirmed.

Tins was a sit brought in the District Court by the
present appellants to avoid and enjoin enforcement of a
special street improvement tax. The appeal is from a
judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals reversing a

OCIOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Appelant.

judgment in their favor.
opinion, pot, 534.

256 U. S.

The facts are stated in the

Mr. C. 0. BLake, with whom Mr. W. R. Bleakmore, Mr.
R. A. Tolbert, Mr. Roy St. Letwis, Mr. Thomas P. Littlepage and Mr. Sidney F. Taliaferro were on the brief, for

appellants:
The purpose of the acts of Congress was not alone to
provide transportation, but both acts have as their
principal object the development of the coal lands belonging to the Indians, and to this end the purchasers of the
property and franchises of the Coal Company were
authorized to organize and become a federal corporation,
with the rights, immunities, powers and duties of the Coal
Company, which was primarily a mining company with
the power to build, acquire, maintain and operate roads,
ways and railroads necessary or useful in the operation of
any mine or quarry owned or operated by the corporation.
By these acts of the Government, accepted by the companies, the premises sought to be charged with the assement were impressed with a duty in relation to the congressional purpose, which would be obstructed by the
sale, apart from the franchise, of portions of the lands
so devoted to such use. The appellants were more than
ordinary common carriers, in that they were charged
and entrusted with a duty to accomplish the operation
of the mines identified in the acts bf Congress, and to
transport the products thereof, as well as the United
States maiL
The nature and purpose of such grants as those made
to the Coal Company and to the Choctaw Company
and of the estate thereby conferred have been definitely
settled by this court. Chicago &c. Ry. Co. v. United
States, 217 U. S. 180; Spokane & B. C. Ry. Co. v. Washington & Great Northern Ry. Co., 219 U. S. 166; Northern
Pacific Ry. Co. v. Townsend, 190 U. S. 267.

CHOCTAW, 0. & G. R. R. CO. v. MACKEY.
531.

533

Argument for Appellants.

This contention, that the way and grounds were not
subject to assessment, is supported by the decision in
Choctaw, Oklahoma & Gulf R. R. Co. v. Harrison, 235
U. S. 292.
It is true that the court was there speaking more with
reference to the mining of the coal.than the transportation
thereof, but the mining and the transportation are inseparably connected and it was as much the duty of the
Government to see that the avenues of transportation for
which it, as guardian of the interest of the Indians, had
appropriated a portion of their lands, were kept open and
that the lands of the Indians which were taken for rights
of way and station grounds were held intact, as it was
to see tnat the coal mines were opened and operated.
At the time of the making of the grants to the Coal
Company and its succesor, the Choctaw Company,
and of the authorization of the letting to the Rock Island
Company, there was in effect in the United States a rule
of property, arising out of the decision of this court in
the case of East Alabama Ry. Co. v. Doe, 114 U. S. 340,
that no part of the right of way of a railway line may
be sold under process separate from the franchise under
which it is held.
There are numerous state decisions to the contrary,
but they are in the minority and do not relate to congressional grants. It is fair to assume that Congress, in
granting the way and grounds, incorporated as integral
parts thereof the rule of property so disclosed by the highest court and generally accepted in the courts of the land.
We do not think that this court has since shown any disposition to change the rule so established. Nadeau v.
Union Pacific R. R. Co., 253 U. S. 442; Buneombe Coury
Commissioners v. Tommey, 115 U. S. 122.
It may be said that no intention should be imputed to
Congress to empower or suffer the State or its municipalities to dismember the thoroughfare so secured, either

OCTOBER TERM, 1920
Opinion of the Cour

256U 8.

with or without the consent of private investment therein.
Congress was creating a public thoroughfare for all of
the general uses and for a specific use to which a special
interest of the Government and of the Indian nations
attached.
The grantee and its lessees and assigns, in fact all persons, were forbidden to use the granted ways and grounds
for any other purposes.
The proceedings to make and enforce the
were not such as to afford due process of law.
The state laws did not authorize the asment.
Mr.Jacob B. Puffy, with whom Mr. Geo. S. Romj,
Mr. W. H. Haris,Mr. J. W. Harbaugh,Mr. W. T. Anglin
and Mr. Alfred Steeion were on the brief, for appellee&

MI. JwrcE B R"Ems delivered the opinion of the

court.

This suit was brought in the United States District
Court for the Eastern District of Oklahoma by the
Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Railway Company to
have declared void a special at
for street improvement made against part of its right of way and station
grounds in the City of Holdenvile, Oklahoma, and to
enjoin the taking of any proceedings to enforce the same.
The Choctaw, Oklahoma & Gulf Railroad Company,
the lessor, was joined as plaintiff. The defendants are
the county treasurer, the city, and holders of bonds
issued to pay for the improvement. The street improved,
called Oklahoma Avenue, rnms paralel to the main tracks.
The station grounds abut on the Avenue for a distance of
1641 feet, and the parcel messed exEends back from the
Avenue 150 feet to the centre of the right of way. Over
this street a large part of the traffic to and from the
station necessarily passes. For between it and the main

CHOCTAW, 0. & G. R. R. CO. v. MACKEY.
531.

535

Opinion of the Court.

tracks lie the passenger depot, the freight houses, the
express office, the cotton platform, an oil warehouse,
grain elevators, coal bins and the team tracks. The assessment is assailed as invalid on several grounds. The chief
contention is that the property is immune from assessment
by the State because that part of the railroad was an
instrumentality of the Federal Government. The other
grounds of attack are that in laying the assessment the
property was not sufficiently identified, and that the
assessment of a railroad right of way and station grounds
is not authorized by the law of the State. The District
Court entered a decree for plaintiffs which was reversed
by the Circuit Court of Appeals with directions to dismiss the bill. 261 Fed. Rep. 342. The case comes here
under § 241 of the Judicial Code.
First. The claim of immunity. from assessment rests
upon these facts: The right of way and station grounds
are on land which had belonged to the Creek Nation
before the town (now city) was established under direction
of the Secretary of the Interior, pursuant to the original
Creek Agreement. Act of March 1, 1901, c. 676, § 10, 31
Stat. 861, 864. The Rock Island acquired its interest
on March 24, 1904, under a lease from the Choctaw,
Oklahoma & Gulf, for a period of 999 years, of all of its
railroad property. The lessor company had in locating
its railroad through Holdenville taken, besides the right
of way 100 feet wide, an additional strip for station purposes 200 feet wide with a length of 3,000 feet; having
acquired the power so to do by succeeding to the powers
and franchises of the Choctaw Coal and Railway Company. To that company Congress had in 1888 granted the
right to build a railroad in Indian Territory, with a branch
line to coal mines leased from the Choctaw Nation.'
,Act of Congress, February 18, 1888, e.13, 25 Stat. 35. Section 2,
provides:
"That said corporation is authorized to take and use for all prposes

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

The contention is that the railroad is an instrumentality
through which the Government undertook to perform
its obligation to develop coal lands belonging to the
Indians; and that, if the railroads' interest in the right
of way and station grounds could be subjected to a
special assessment and possible sale thereunder apart
from the railroad franchises, the congressional purpose
might be obstructed. Chodaw, Oklahoma & Gulf R. R.
Co. v. Harrison,235 U. S. 292; see also Northern Pacific
Ry. Co. v. Townsend, 190 U. S. 267; Indian Territory
Illuminating Oil Co. v. Oklahoma, 240 U. S. 522.
The mere fact that property is used, among others, by
the United States as an instrument for effecting its purpose does not relieve it from state taxation. The most
that can be said here is that among the public served by
this railroad are some mines on land leased from the
Choctaw Nation. The right of way and station grounds

in question, instead of being as was perhaps originally
contemplated by the Act of February 18, 1888, part of a
branch to leased "coal veins," have become an integral
of railway, and for no other purpose, a right of way one hundred feet
in widih through said Indian Terrtory for moid main line and branch
of the Choctaw Coal and Railway Company; and to take and use a
strip of land two hundred feet in width, with a length of three thousand
feet, in addilion to right of way, for stations, for every ten miles of
rod. . . .
" Proidedfurthff, That no part of the lands herein authorized to be
taken shall be leased or sold by the company, and they shall not be
used except in such maner and for such purposes only as shall be
necessary for the construction and convenient operation of said railroad, telegraph, and telephone lines; and when any portion thereof
shall cease to be so used, such portion shall revert to the nation or
tribe of Imdians from which the same shall be taken."
See also Acts of February 13, 1889, c. 152, 25 Stat. 668; October 1,
180, e. 1252, 26 Stat. 640: February 21, 1891, c. 249, 26 Stat. 765;
January 22, 1894, c. 14, 28 Stat. 27; August 24, 1894, c. 330, 28 Stat
2; Aprl 24, 1896, c. 122, 29 Stat. 98; March 28, 1900, c. 111, 31
Stat, 52.

CHOCTAW, 0. & G. R. R. CO. v. MACKEY.
531.

537

Opinion of the Court.

part of through lines of a great railroad system. Holdenville is on the main line of the Choctaw, Oklahoma and
Gulf which extends from the west bank of the Mississippi
River through Arkansas and Oklahoma to the Texas state
line, a distance of nearly 650 miles. By the lease to the
Rock Island, this railroad has become a part of the through
lines of a much larger system. And even though it be
granted that the Federal Government utilized the railroad as an instrument in working out its policy toward
the Indians the tax upon the railroad property would
be none the less valid. Ratlroad Co. v. Peniston, 18 Wall.
5, 36; Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Massachusetts, 125
U. S. 530, 546-548; CentralPacific R. R. Co. v. California,
162 U. S. 91, 125; Thomas v. Gay, 169 U. S. 264.
Second. Equally unfounded is the contention that the
assessment did not sufficiently identify the property, and
was hence a denial of due process of law. The Oklahoma
statute under which the assessment was made (Comp.
Laws, 1909, § 724), provides that:
"If any portion of the property abutting upon such
improvement shall not be platted into lots and blocks,
the mayor and council shall include such property in
proper quarter block districts for the purpose of appraisement and assessment, as herein provided."
The railroad premises not having been platted, the
Mayor and Council adopted a map of the city engineer,
on which the right of way and station grounds were set
forth in proper quarter block districts. The premises
I When Congress authorized the purchasers of the property and
franchises of the insolvent Choctaw Coal and Railway Company to
reorganize as the Choctaw, Oklahoma and Gulf, it conferred upon the
latter "perpetual succession." Act of August 24, 1894, c. 330, § 5, 28
Stat. 502, 503. Later it greatly enlarged its powers, conferring authority without limit, to construct its railroad over any Indian reservation
and to acquire and consolidate with practically any connecting line.
Acts of April 24, 1596, c. 122, 29 Stat. 98; March 28, 1900, c. 111, 31
Stat. 52.

OCTOBER TERMNI, 1920.

Opinion of the Court

256 U. S.

assessed were those quarter blocks thereon designated as
abutting on that portion of -Oklahoma Avenue which
was improved; and the designation was clear. Some
time after the passage of the ordinance providing for the
assessment this map was inadvertently removed from the
city files, sent to the purchasers of the bonds issued for
the improvement, and not returned until after the lapse
of a considerable time. But the railroad companies had
full knowledge of the proceedings relating to the assemmnt and of the commencement, the progress and the completion of the improvement. There is not even a suggestion that they were injured or misled by the temporary
absence of the map from the city files. Such removal did
not invalidate the assessment. Furthermore, mere iW
sufficiency of description or other irregularity in the proceeding would not entitle abutting landowners to the
relief sought here Their right would be limited to having
the Mayor and Council make a reassesment conforming
to the regulations prescribed by the statute. See Oklahoma Laws, 1907-8, p. 176, J§ 7-8; Oklahoma Ry. Co. v.
S==s Paving Co., 251 U. S. 104.
Third. Th remaining contention is that the statutes
of the State do not authorize assessment for betterments
upon a railroad right of way and station grounds. The
mere fact that there is a possible right of reverter in the
Creek Nation does not preclude the railroad's interest
from being subject to general taxation; see Baltimore Shipbuilding Co. v. Baltimore, 195 U. S. 375; Maricopa &
Phenix R. R. Co. v. Arizona, 156 U. S. 347, 352. The
railroad's interest, as stated in Rio Grande Western Ry.
Co. v. Stringham, 239 U. S. 44, 47, is "neither a mere
easement, nor a fee simple absolute, but a limited fee,
made on an implied condition of reverter in the event
that the company ceases to use or retain the land for the
purposes for which it is granted, and carries with it the
incidents and remedies usually attending the fee." In

CHOCTAW, 0. & G. R. &. CO. v. MACKEY.
531.

539

Opinion of the Court.

effect the railroad is the absolute owner of the land. Its
use is, and necessarily must be, exclusive. The betterment
for which the assessment was levied is of a nature to
enhance the value of that use. And it is the railroad, as
distinguished from the Creek Nation, owner of a possible
reversionary interest, to which the benefit from the improvement enures. For the railroad's use will continue
indefinitely, while the specific improvement to be paid
for can have but a short, life.
Street paving is a class of betterment to which the railroad right of way and station property is generally held
to be subject. See Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v.
Barber Asphalt Co., 197 U. S. 430; Branson v. Bush, 251
U. S. 182. The rule appears to have been accepted in
Oklahoma. Compare Missouri, Kansas & Texas Ry. Co.
v. Tulsa, 45 Oklahoma, 382; Okdahoma Ry. Co. v. &verns
Paving Co., 251 U. S. 104. It is urged that, if the assessment is left unpaid, a sale to enforce the lien would sever
an integral part of the railway. The same objection
might be urged against the validity of a lien for general
taxes locally assessed upon railroad property or a mechanic's lien upon the same. The objection is clearly
unsound. Compare Kansas City Southern Ry. Co. v.
Tansey, 41 Oklahoma, 543; Kansas City Southern Ry. Co.
v. Rosier, 38 Oklahoma, 231; Kansas City Southern Ry. Co.
v. Wallace, 38 Oklahoma,233. If the validityof the assessment is established, it may be assumed that due payment
will follow. At all events we have no occasion to deal now
with the method and means to be pursued in enforcing it.

Affirned.

