OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

256 U. S.

plus, and the sentence quoted continues "and for the
purposes of this act such corporation shall be deemed to
have employed in this state that proportion of its entire
outstanding capital stock and surplus that its property
and assets in this state bears to all its property and assets
wherever located." We cannot much doubt that the
tax was intended to be measured by the proportion of
stock and surplus in the State, and that the omission of
reference to surplus in the clause first quoted is a misprision or abbreviation that does not conceal the purpose
to be gathered from the previous and following words.
We think it unnecessary to go into further details.
Decree affirmed.

NEWBERRY ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
No. 559.

Argued January 7, 10, 1921.-Decided May 2, 1921.

1. Section 8 of the "Federal Corrupt Practices Act " (June 25, 1910,
c. 392, 36 Stat. 822; amended August 19, 1911, c. 33, 37 Stat. 25),
which undertakes to limit the amount of money which any candidate
for the office of Representative in Congress or of United States
Senator shall give, contribute, expend, use, or promise. or cause to
be given, contributed, expended, used, or promised, in procuring
his nomination or election, is unconstitutional. So held, as applied
to a primary election of candidates for a seat in the Senate. P. 247.
2. The power of Congress over elections of Senators and Representatives has its source in § 4 of Art. I of the Constitution, which provides: "The times, places and manner cf holding elections for
Senators and Representatives, shall be prescribed in each State by
the Legislature thereof; but the Congress may at any time by law
make or alter such regulations, except as to the places of chusing
Senators." P. 247.

NEWBERRY v. UNITED STATES.
232.

Syllabus.

3. An indefinite, undefined power in Congress over elections of Senators
and Representatives, not derived from Art. I, § 4, cannot be inferred
from the fact that the offices were created by the Constitution, or
by assuming that the Government must be free from any control
by the States over matters affecting the choice of its officers,-a
false assumption, ignoring powers clearly vested in the States under
the Constitution and the federal character of the Government.
P. 249.
4. Elections, within the original intendment of § 4 of Art. I, were
those wherein Senators should be chosen by legislatures and Representatives by voters possessing "the qualifications requisite for
electors of the most numerous branch of the State Legislature."
Art. I, §§ 2 and 3. P. 250.
5. The Seventeenth Amendment neither announced nor requires a
new meaning of election, and the word now has the same general
significance as it did when the Constitution came into existence,final choice of an officer by the duly qualified electors. P, 250.
6. Primaries are in no sense elections for office, but merely methods
by which party adherents agree upon candidates whom they intend
to offer and support for ultimate choice by all qualified electors.
P. 250.
7. The Seventeenth Amendment does not modify Art. I, § 4, the
source of congressional power to regulate the times, places and
manner of holding elections; that section remains intact and applicable to the election of both Representatives and Senators. P. 252.
8. The Act of June 4, 1914, c. 103, 38 Stat. 384, providing a temporary
method of conducting the nomination and election of Senators,
sheds no light on the power of Congress to regulate primaries and
conventions. P. 253.
9. Even if the Seventeenth Amendment gave power to regulate
primaries for the choice of senatorial candidates, its adoption did
not validate the earlier penal statute on the subject (Act of 19101911, supra, par. 1); an after-acquired power cannot ex proprio
vigore validate a statute void when enacted. P. 254.
10. Section 2 of the Act of June 4, 1914, supra, if it could be regarded
as an attempt to regulate nominations of Senators, based on the
Amendment, would have no bearing on a prosecution under the
Act of 1910-1911, for conduct occurring after that section expired
by its own limitation. P. 254.
11. The power to control party primaries for designating candidates
for the Senate is not within the grant of power. "to regulate the
manner of holding elections " (Art. I, § 4),-neither within the

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

256 U. S.

fair intendment of the words used nor the meaning ascribed to
them by the framers of the Constitution; it is not necessary in order
to effectuate the power expressly granted (Art. I, § 8, cl. 18); and its
exercise would interfere with purely domestic affairs of the States
and infringe upon liberties reserved to the people. P. 256.
Reversed.
WRIT of error to a conviction and sentence under an
indictment charging conspiracy to violate the Federal

Corrupt Practices Act.

The case is stated in the opinion,

post, 243.

Mr. Charles E. Hughes, with whom Mr. James 0.
Murfin, Mr. Martin W. Littleton and Mr. George E.
Nichols were on the briefs, for plaintiffs in error:
The statutory provision in question is without constitutional authority. Article I, § 4, of the Constitution,
is the only provision of the Constitution which can be
invoked in the attempt to find authority for the legislation
upon which this prosecution is based. United States v.
Gradwell, 243 U. S. 476, 481, 482. The power thus conferred upon Congress is a limited one, confined to regulations of "the times, places and manner of holding
elections."
The qualifications of electors, and of those who might
be elected, are defined in other provisions. It is apparent
that while Congress should have the power to regulate
the times, places and manner of holding elections, it was
not intended otherwise to detract from the freedom of
the people of the States with respect to their political
activities. The conditions with respect to suffrage in
the several States, at the time of the adoption of the
Constitution, are stated in Minor v. Happersett, 21 Wall.
162, 172. Each State had determined for itself who
should have the right to vote, and, in creating the new
government, it was provided, with respect to the choice
of members of the House, that "the electors in each
State shall have the qualifications requisite for electors

NEWBERRY v. UNITED STATES.
232.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

of the most numerous branch of the state legislature"
(Art. I, § 2); and with respect to the Senators that they
should be "chosen by the legislature " of each State
(Art. I, § 3). And when the Seventeenth Amendment
was adopted, a provision was made with respect to the
qualifications of electors similar to that which obtains
in the case of electors of the members of the House.
With these provisions as to qualifications of electors,
the measure of control given to Congress was the control
of "the times, places and manner of holding elections "
with the exception as to "the places of chusing Senators."
As to the Senate, the extent of the power was to regulate
the "time " and "manner." The Federalist, No. LX.
See, also, Farrand, Records of Federal Convention, vol. 3,
pp. 194, 195, 267, 311, 319, 344, 345, 359.
The sole question then is whether the statute is a
regulation of the "manner of holding elections."
The "election " is the choice of the Senator or Representative, and the "holding "of the election is the taking
of the vote to determine the choice. The regulation of
the "manner " of holding elections is manifestly the
regulation of the way in which the vote to determine
the choice shall be taken and registered.
As Congress has the power to regulate the taking of
the vote, Congress has the power to protect the qualified
voters in exercising their right to vote at the time when
the vote is taken. Congress also has the power to supervise the taking of the vote in order to make sure that the
vote is duly taken, and Congress may also prescribe how
the vote shall be counted and the result registered. In
this power to regulate there would be involved the power
to protect the voter in the casting of his vote, to protect
the evidence of the vote, to insure freedom from any
improper tampering with the vote or with the counting
of the vote or with the registration of its result.
Congress is thus authorized to surround the election,

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

256 U. S.

that is, the taking of the vote, with appropriate safeguards and with such adequate supervision as will insure
to the voter the free exercise of his right and establish
the choice as shown by the vote properly taken and
counted. Ex parte Siebold, 100 U. S. 371, 396; Ex parte
Yarbrough, 110 U. S. 651, 661; United States v. Mosley,
238 U. S. 383; In re Coy, 127 U. S. 731, 752.
The history of the action of Congress under the authority conferred by Art. I, § 4, reviewed by Mr. Justice
Clarke in United States v. Gradwell, supra, 482-484, is
most instructive. A distinction is at once apparent
between the regulation of the manner of holding elections,
in order to protect the rights of the voter and to secure
a fair count, and the attempt to interfere with or control
the activities of the people of the States in the conduct
of political campaigns. In other words, if we assume
the validity of regulations which protect each qualified
voter in the exercise of his right to vote and which provide for the supervision of the casting of the vote and
the proper ascertainment of the result, then the question
is whether Congress can go further and attempt to control the educational campaign. Upon what ground can
it be said that Congress can provide how many meetings
shall be held, where meetings shall be held, how many
speakers shall be allowed to speak for a candidate, how
many circulars may be distributed, how many committees
may act in behalf of a candidate, how they shall be organized and what shall be the limit of their honest activity?
In the exercise of the power conferred, prior to the
legislation now under consideration, Congress always
dealt with the election and the conduct of the election,
and never with the nominating process.
If it be said that it was not the intention of Congress
by this legislation to regulate the "election," but to
impose a restriction upon the candidate as an individual,
the act nevertheless would be invalid.

NEWBERRY v. UNITED STATES.
232.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

The so-called "nominating primary " was unknown at
the time of the adoption of the Constitution; it is a
development of comparatively recent years. The nominating primary, like the nominating convention and its
predecessor, the caucus, is not the "election." The nominating process is distinct from the election, and it was so
regarded at the time of the adoption of the Constitution.
What the term "elections " meant at the time of the
adoption of the Constitution, it means now. See Hawke
v. Smith, 253 U. S. 221, 227, 228, involving the meaning
of the word "legislatures," as used in Article V with
respect to the ratification of amendments. The ruling
in that case is not at all at variance with the familiar
decisimns that when a constitutional provision embodies
a certain concept, whatever is properly within the concept is embraced within the words of the Constitution,
although it lay far beyond the vision of the framers of
the Constitution. In re Debs, 158 U. S. 564, 591; Hammer
v. Dagenhart, 247 U. S. 251.
No one would have the hardihood to suggest that within
the meaning of the framers of the Constitution the word
"elections " had reference to anything else than the
taking of the vote for Senators or Representatives.
At the time of the adoption of the Constitution, the
nomination process was a very simple one. No one could
have confused it with an "election."
Nominations
were early made at the caucus, which was either an informal gathering of the voters of a particular district or
a "legislative" or "congressional" caucus. It was not
regulated by law and no one regarded it as an "election."
Later, the caucus gave way to the nominating convention
to which delegates were chosen. But no one supposed
that the nominating convention was an "election."
It is only recently that nominating conventions have
been subject to legal regulation in the States. The
introduction of the so-called primary system was simply

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

256 U. S.

another phase of the nominating process. The primary
was no more an "eledion," within the meaning of the
Constitution, than the nominating convention or the
caucus was an "election." It is a mere accidental circumstance that because of the method adopted in the
primary there has come into use the expression "primary
election." The present use of this term has nothing to
do with the meaning of "elections "as used in Art. I, § 4.
In providing that Congress might substitute its regulation for that of the States with reference to the "election " the framers of the Constitution had reference to a
very distinct subject of regulation, to-wit, the "election "
itself. There had been no-attempt to regulate by law
the nominating process. There was nothing at the time
of the adoption of the Constitution, or for approximately
a hundred years after, which savored of an attempt to
regulate the political activities of citizens so far as these
related to nominations.
It follows then that the Constitution used a term
with a well-defined meaning. There is nothing in the
knowledge, spirit or conditions of the times which suggests
any purpose to widen that term so to embrace that which
according to its natural significance it did not embrace.
It is inconceivable that, had there been any intention
to delegate power to regulate the process of nominations, the framers of the Constitution would have been
content to provide for the regulation of the "times,
places and manner of holding elections."
We think there is far more to be said for the proposition
that the word "legislatures " in Art. V referred to those
who legislated whether a representative body or the
people themselves than to say that the word "elections "
in Art. I, § 4, embraces the nominating process.
Even under state constitutions the term "elections "
does not embrace so-called "primary elections " when
the term refers to the election of public officers.

NEWBERRY v. UNITED STATES.
232.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

State v. Eridcon, 119 Minnesota, 152, 156; State v.
Taylor, 220 Missouri, 618, 631; Zent v. Nichols, 50 Washington, 508, 522; Ledgerwood v. Pitts, 122 Tennessee,
570, 587; State v. Woodruff, 68 N. J. L. 89, 94; Commonwealt v. Wells, 110 Pa. St. 463, 468; People v. Cavanaugh, 112 California, 674, 676, 677, and other cases,
including United States v. O'Toole, 236 Fed. Rep. 993,
996 (heard with United States v. Gradiell, 243 U. S. 476,
and affirmed).
We find in Art. I, § 6, subdiv. 2, the provision that
"No Senator or Representative shall, during the time
for which he was elected, be appointed to any civil office
under the authority of the United States," etc. It is
obvious that the word "eleted " does not mean "nominated." And the Senator or Representative is elected
at the "lection " and not before.
The "elections" of Representatives to which Art. -I,
§ 4, refers, and the manner of holding which may be regulated by Congress, are the "elections " at which the
"electors," to whom reference is made in Art. I, § 2,
vote. It is because they vote at the "elections " for
members of the House that they are called "electors."
But the term celectors " like the term "elections " has
no reference to a nominating primary. If Congress has
the power to regulate a nominating primary, it has also
the power to regulate a nominating convention and the
vote of delegates at a nominating convention.
We venture to say that there is not a word in the Constitution, or in any contemporary document, which can
be tortured into a support of the view that "electiomn"
in Art. I, § 4, comprehends any nominating system.
The meaning of the word "elections " is not extended
by the expression "manner of holding " elections, for the
manner of holding the election is necessarily limited to
the election which is held.
If Congress under Art. I, § 4, has the power which

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for the United States.

256 U. S.

it has sought to exercise in the statute in question, it has
the power to abolish all primary elections for Senators
and Representatives in every State of the Union. It has
the power to establish conventions, to overthrow conventions, to provide any sort of a primary that it may
desire to provide. Such interferences with the rights
and privileges of the citizens of the several States have no
warrant in the Constitution.
The Solicitor General and Mr. Frank C. Dailey, Special
Assistant to the Attorney General, for the United States:
A Senator being an officer of the United States holding
an office created by the Constitution and constituting
a part of the Federal Government, all matters relating
to his election belong to the Government of the United
States, which has the same power over them that the
States have over matters relating to the election of state
officers, unless restricted by the Constitution itself.
It is assumed in the argument in behalf of the plaintiffs
in error that the only power which Congress has over the
election of Senators and Representatives is derived from
Art. I, § 4, of the Constitution, relating to the times,
places, and manner of holding such elections. This is
by no means true. That section, on the contrary, contains only a grant of power to the States to be exercised
subject to the control of Congress, in the exercise of a
power which would be its, even if this section were not
in the Constitution.
The Government of the United States is not a confederation of States. It is a government ordained by the
people of the United States and, within the sphere of
its powers, wholly independent of the state governments.
A Senator or a Representative in Congress holds an office
which was created by the Constitution. He is chosen
not by the States but by that portion of the people of
the United States who reside in the State in which he

NEWBERRY v. UNITED STATES.
232

Argummt for the United States

is elected. He is an officer not of any State but of
the Federal Government. Lamar v. United States, 241
U. S. 103, 112. Unless, therefore, the Constitution
itself indicates a contrary intention, his. election is a
matter which concerns only the Federal Government
and in no way a state government. It would certainly
be an anomaly if one government had the unrestricted
power to control matters affecting the choice of the
officers of another and entirely independent government.
Control of matters relating to the selection of those who are
to function as a part of a particular government would
seem necessarily to inhere in that government itself.
Ez parte Yarbiough, 110 U. S. 651, 657.
It is true that the Constitution fixes the qualification
of voters by reference to state laws. This does not mean,
however, that the voter derives his right to vote from
the State rather than from the Constitution of the United
States. Ez parte Yarbrough, supra, 663.
Whatever power the States have over matters relating
to the election of federal officers is not one of their reserved powers but a power expressly conferred by the
Constitution.
The only power conferred on the States by the Constitution over matters relating to the election of Senators
and Representatives is expressly made subordinate to
the power of Congress over the same matter. Const.,
Art. I, § 4; Seventeenth Amdt. In effect, what was done
by § 4 was to provide that the first Congress should be
elected through the use of the election machinery of
the various States, and that this method of electing congremm should continue, except as Congress might,
from time to time, see fit to alter it or to supplant it
with election machinery of its own. If, therefore, the
power to make regulations relating to primary elections
is included in the power to prescribe the manner of holding elections, the exercise of this power is subject to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for the United States.

256 U. S.

control of Congress. Whatever power the States may
exert over congressional or senatorial primaries, in the
absence of action by Congress, may be exerted under
the express provision of § 4 by Congress whenever deemed
necessary.
If Congress has no power to make regulations of the
kind now involved, neither have States, and there is
no power anywhere which can control and prevent excessive expenditures by candidates for senatorial or
congressional nominations. And yet, practically, and
to all intents and purposes in many States, the most
important and decisive act in the choosing of officers
is the nomination.
The States undoubtedly have the power to regulate
primary elections for the selection of candidates for
state offices, because such regulations are necessary to
protect the integrity of elections themselves. For the
same reason Congress has the power to regulate primary
elections for choosing candidates for federal offices.
Ample authority to sustain this legislation is found
in Art. I, § 4, of the Constitution, even if the necessary
power must be derived from that section; and, even if
the word "elections" as there used is not construed as
including primary elections, the law is still constitutional.
This section must be read in connection with the last
clause of Art. I, § 8, which confers upon Congress the
power to make all laws which shall be necessary and
proper for carrying into execution the powers expressly
granted. Ex parte Sieboid, 100 U. S. 371, 396; Ex parte
Yarbrough, 110 U. S. 651, 658; United States v. Gradweil,
243 U. S. 476, 482.
Manifestly, this provision of the Constitution grew
out of the conviction that it would be suicidal for the
new government to commit to any other government a
controlling power over the choosing of its officers without
reserving to itself a supervisory power. For a State to

NEWBERRY v. UNITED STATES.
232.

Opinion of the Court.

arrange its election laws by providing for two elections,
the first for the purpose of reducing the number of
candidates and the second for the purpose of choosing
between the surviving candidates, is, in many States,
for all practicable purposes, equivalent to choosing the
officials in the first or primary elections.
MJ. Jusncz McRzyNoLs delivered the opinion of
the court.
Plaintiffs in error-Tuman H. Newberry, Paul H.
King and fifteen others-were found guilty of conspiring

(Criminal Code, § 37) to violate § 8, Act of Congress
approved June 25, 1910, c. 392, 36 Stat. 8824, as
amended by Act of August 19, 1911, c. 33, 37 Stat. 25-29,The Federal Corrupt Practices Act-which provides:
"No candidate for Representative in Congress or for
Senator of the United States shall give, contribute, expend, use, or promise, or cause to be given, contributed,
expended, used, or promised, in procuring his nomination
and election, any sum, in the aggregate, in excess of the
amount which he may lawfully give, contribute, expend,
or promise under the laws of the State in which he resides:
Provided, That no candidate for Representative in Congrew shall give, contribute, expend, use, or promise any
sum, in the aggregate, exceeding five thousand dollars
in any campaign for his nomination and election; and
no candidate for Senator of the United States shall give,
contribute, expend, use, or promise any sum, in the
aggregate, exceeding ten thousand dollars in any campaign for his nomination and election: Provided further,
That money expended by any such candidate to meet
and discharge any assessment, fee, or charge made or
levied upon candidates by the laws of the State in which
he resides, or for his necessary personal expenses, incurred
for himself alone, for travel and subsistence, stationery

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

and postage, writing or printing (other than in newspapers), and distributing letters, circulars, and posters,
and for telegraph and telephone service, shall not be
regarded as an expenditure within the meaning of this
section, and shall not be considered any part of the sum
herein fixed as the limit of expense and need not be shown
in the statements herein required to be filed."
Act No. 109, § 1, Michigan Legislature, 1913, prohibits
expenditure by or on behalf of a candidate, to be paid
by him, in securing his nomination, of any sum exceeding
twenty-five per centum of one year's compensation;
and puts like limitation upon expenditures to obtain
election after nomination, Section 1 is copied below.'
Taken with the state enactment, the federal statute
in effect declares a candidate for the United States Senate
punishable by fine and imprisonment, if (except for cer' Act No. 109, Michigan Legislature, 1913:
"Section 1. No sums of money shall be paid, and no expenses
authorized or incurred by or on behalf of any candidate to be paid by
him in order to secure or aid in securing his nomination to any public
office or position in this State, in excess of twenty-five per cent of
one year's compensation or salary of the office for which he is candidate:
Provided, That a sum not exceeding fifty per cent of one year's salary
may be expended by the candidates for Governor and Lieutenant
Governor; or where the office is that of member of either branch of
the Legislature of the State, the twenty-five per cent shall be computed
on the salary fixed for the term of two years: Providedfurther. That
no candidate shall be restricted to less than one hundred dollars in
his campaign for such nomination. No sums of money shall be paid
and no expense authorized or incurred by or on behalf of any candidate
who has received the nomination to any public office or position in
this State, in excess of twenty-five per cent of one year's salary or
compensation of the office for which he is nominated; or where the
office is that of member of either branch of the Legislature of the State,
the twenty-five per cent shall be computed on the salary fixed for the
term of two years: Provided, That no candidate shall be restricted
to leas than one hundred dollars. No sum of money shall be paid and
no expenses authorized or incurred by or on behalf of any candidate
contrary to the provisions of this act."

NEWBERRY v. UNITED STATES.
232.

Opinion of the Court.

tam specified purposes) he give, contribute, expend,
use, promise or cause to be given, contributed, expended,
used or promisesd in procuring his nomination and election
more than $3,750.00-one-half of one year's salary.
Under the construction of the act urged by the Government and adopted by the court below it is not necessary
that the inhibited sum be paid, promised or expended
by the candidate himself, or be devoted to any secret or
immoral purpose. For example, its open and avowed
contribution and use by supporters upon suggestion
by him or with his approval and co6peration in order to
promote public discussion and debate touching vital
questions or to pay necessary expenses of speakers, etc.,
z enough. And upon such interpretation the conviction
below was asked and obtained.
The indictment charges: That. Truman H. Newberry
became a candidate for the Republican nomination for
United States Senator from Michigan at the primary
election held August 27, 1918; that by reason of selection
and nomination theremin he became a candidate at the
general election, November 5, 1918; that he and 134
others (who are named) at divers times from December 1,
1917, to November 5, 1918, unlawfully and feloniously
did conspire, combine, confederate, and agree together
to commit the offense on his part of wilfully violating
the Act of Congress approved June 25, 1910, as amended,
by giving, contributing, expending, and using and by
causing to be given, contributed, expended and used,
in procuring his nomination and election at said primary
and general elections, a greater sum than the laws of
Michigan permitted and above ten thousand dollars, to
wit, $100,000.00, and on the part of the other defendants
of aiding counseling, inducing, and procuring Newberry
as such candidate to give, contribute, expend, and use
or cause to be given, contributed, expended and used said
large and excessive sum in order to procure his nomination

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

and election. Plaintiffs in error were convicted under
count one, set out in the margin. 1
(CouNT ONE)
'That Truman H. Newberry, Chase S. Osborne, Henry Ford and
William B. Simpson, before and on August 27, 1918, were candidates
for the Republican nomination for the office of Senator in the Congress
of the United States from the State of Michigan at the primary
election held in said State on that day under the laws of said State,
and Henry Ford and James Helm, before and on said August 27, 1918,
were candidates for the Democratic nomination for the same office at
said Primary election; that from said August 27, 1918, to and including
November 5, 1918, said Truman H. Newberry and said Henry Ford,
by reason of their election and nomination at said Primary election,
became and were opposing candid"tes for election to the office of
Senator in the Congress of the United States from said State of Michigan at the general election held in said State on said November 5, 1918,
-said Truman H. Newberry of the Republican Party and said H airy
Ford of the Democratic Party,-each of said candidates having, on
said A ugust 27, 1918, and said November 5, 1918, attained tb the age
of thirty years and upwards and been a citizen of the United States
far more than nine years and each then being an inhabitant and resident
of said State; and that said Truman H. Newberry, Paul H. King [and
133 others], hereinafter called the defendants, continuously and at
all and (livers times throughout the period of time from December 1,
1917, to and including said November 5, 1918, at and within said
Southern Division of said Western District of Michigan, unlawfully
and feloniously did conspire, combine, confederate and agree together,
and with divers other persons to said grand jurors unknown, to commit
an offense against the United States, to-wit, the offense on the part
of said Truman H. Newberry of wilfully violating the Act of Congress
approved June 25, 1910, as amended by the Acts of August 19, 1911,
and August 23, 1912, by giving, contributing, expending and using
and by causing to be given, contributed, expended and used, in procuring his nomination and election as such Senator at baid primary
and general elections, a sum, in the aggregate, in excess of the amount
which he might lawfully give, contribute, expend, or use, or cause
to be given, contributed, expended or used for such purpose under
the laws of said State of Michigan, to-wit the sum of one hundred
thousand do~lars, amql by. giving, contributing, expending and using
and causing to be given, contributed, expended and used in procuring
his nomination and election as such Senator, at said primary and

NEWBERRY v. UNITED STATES.
232.

247

Opinion of the Court.

The court below overruled a duly interposed demurrer
which challenged the constitutionality of § 8; and by so
doing we think fell into error.
Manifestly, this section applies not only to final elections for choosing Senators but also to primaries and
conventions of political parties for selection of candidates.
Michigan and many other States undertake to control
these primaries by statutes and give recognition to their
results. And the ultimate question for solution here
is whether under the grant of power to regulate "the
manner of holding elections " Congress may fix the
maximum sum which a candidate therein may spend,
or advise or cause to be contributed and spent by others
to procure his nomination.
Section 4, Art. I, of the Constitution provides: "The
times, places and manner of holding elections for Senators
and Representatives, shall be prescribed in each State
general elections, a sum in the aggregate, in excess of ten thousand
dollars, to-wit, said sum of one hundred thousand dollars, and on the
part of said other defendants of aiding, counseling, inducing and procuring said Truman H. Newberry so to give, contribute, expend and
use and cause to be given, contributed, expended and used said large
sum of money in excess of the amounts permitted by the laws of the
State of Michigan' and the said Acts of Congress; the same to be money
so unlawfully given, contributed, expended and used by said Truman H.
Newberry: and by him caused to be given, contributed, expended and
used as such candidate for the following and other purposes, objects
and things, to-wit:
Advertisements in newspapers and other publications;
Print paper, cuts, plates and other supplies furnished to newspaper

publishers;
Subscriptions to newspapers;
Production, distribution and exhibition of moving pictures;
Traveling and subsistence expenses of campaign managers, public
speakers, secret propagandists, field, district and county agents and
solicitors, and of voters not infirm or disabled;
Compensation of campaign managers, public speakers and secret
propagandists, and of field, district and county agents and solicitors;
Appropriating and converting to the use of the defendants them-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

by the Legislature thereof; but the Congress may at any
time by law make or alter such regulations, except as
to the places of choosing Senators." Here is the source
of congressional power over the elections specified. It
has been so declared by this court--Ex parte Siebold,
100 U. S. 371; Unite States v. Gradwell, 243 U. S. 476,
481-and the early discussions clearly show that this was
then the accepted opinion. The Federalist, LVIII, LIX,
LX; Elliot's Debates, vol. II, 50, 73, 311; vol. III, 86,
183, 344, 375; vol. IV, 75, 78, 211.
selves, and each of them, large sums of money under the guise and: pretense of payment of their expenses and compensation for their services;
Rent of offices and public halls;
Bribery of election officials;
Unlawful assistance of election officials;
Bribery of voters;
Expenses and compensation of Democratic obstructionist candidate
at the primary election;
Expenses and compensation of detectives;
Dinners, banquet and other entertainments given to persons believed to be influential in said State of Michigan;
And no part of which said money was to be money expended by
said Truman H. Newberry, as such candidate, to meet or discharge
assessments, fees, or charges made or levied upon candidates by the
laws of said State, or for his necessary personal expenses, incurred for
himself alone, for travel and subsistence, stationery and postage,
writing or printing (other than in newspapers), or for distributing
letters, circulars, or postage, or for telegraph or telephone service, or
for proper legal expenses in maintaining or contesting the results of
either of said elections.
[38 distinct and separate overt acts are specified].
And so the grand jurors aforesaid, upon their oaths aforesaid, do
say, that said defendants, continuously and at all and divers times
thrughout the period of time in this count mentioned, at and within
said division and district, in manner and form in this count aforesaid,
unlawfully and feloniously did conspire to commit an offense against
the United States, and certain of them did do acts to effect the object
of the conspiracy; Against the peace and dignity of the United States,
and contrary to the form of the statute of the same in such case made

and pro-Adei

NEWBERRY v. UNITED STATES.
232.

Opinion of the Court.

We find no support in reason or authority for the
argument that because the offices were created by the
Constitution, Congress has some indefinite, undefined
power over elections for Senators and Representatives
not derived from §4. "The government, then, of the
United States, can claim no powers which are not granted
to it by the Constitution, and the powers actually granted,
must be such as are expressly given, or given by necessary
implication." Martin v. Hunter's Lessee, 1 Wheat. 304,
326. Clear constitutional provisions also negative any
possible inference of such authority because of the supposed anomaly "if one government had the unrestricted
power to control matters affecting the choice of the

officers of another."

Mr. Iredell (afterwards of this

court) in the North Carolina Convention of 1788, pointed
out that the States may-must indeed--exert some unrestricted control over the Federal Government. "The
very existence of the general government depends on
that of the state governments. The state legislatures
ae to choose the senators. Without a Senate there can
be no Congress The state legislatures are also to direct
the manner of choosing the President. Unless, therefore,
there are state legislatures to direct that manner, no
President can be chosen. The same observation may be
made as to the House of Representatives, since, as they
are to be chosen by the electors of the most numerous
branch of each state legislature, if there are no state
legislatures, there are no persons to choose the House of
Representatives. Thus it is evident that the very existence of the general government depends on that of the
state legislatures." Elliot's Debates, vol. IV, p. 53.
See also The Federalist, XLIV. The federal features
of our Government are so dIear and have been so often
declared that no valuable discussion can proceed upon
the opposite assumption.
Undoubtedly elections within the original intendment

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

of § 4 were those wherein Senators should be chosen by
Legislatures and Representatives by voters possessing
"the qualifications requisite for electors of the most
numerous branch of the State Legislature." Art. I, §§ 2
and 3. The Seventeenth Amendment, which directs that
Senators be chosen by the people, neither announced nor
requires a new meaning of election and the word now
has the same general significance as it did when the Constitution came into existence-final choice of an officer
by the duly qualified electors. Hawke v. Smith, 253 U. S.
221. Primaries were then unknown. Moreover, they
are in no sense elections for an office, but merely methods
by which party adherents agree upon candidates whom
they intend to offer and support for ultimate choice by
all qualified electors. General provisions touching elections in constitutions or statutes are not necessarily
applicable to primaries-the two things are radically
different. And this view has been declared by many
state courts. People v. Cavanaugh, 112 California, 674;
State v. Erieksm, 119 Minnesota, 152; Stahe v. Taylor,
220 Missouri, 618; State v. Woodruff, 68 N. J. L. 89;
Commonwealth v. Wells, 110 Pa. St. 463; Ledgerwood v.
Pitts, 122 Tennessee, 570.
Su Iry provisions of the Constitution indicate plainly
enough what its framers meant by elections and the
"manner of holding " them. "The House of Representatives shall be composed of members chosen every
second year by the people of the several States." "No
person shall be a Representative.
who shall not,
when elected, be an inhabitant of that State in which
he shall be chosen." "When vacancies happen in the
representation from any State, the executive authority
thereof shall issue writs of election to fill such vacancies."
"Immediately after they [the Senators] shall be assembled
in consequence of the first election, they shall be divided
as equally as may be into three classes." "No person

NEWBERRY v. UNITED STATES.
232.

Opinion of the Court.

who shall not, when elected,
shall be a Senator
be an inhabitant of that State for which he shall be
chosen." "Each House shall be the judge of the elections,
returns and qualifications of its own members." "No
Senator or Representative shall, during the time for
which he was elected, be appointed to any civil office,"
etc. "The executive power shall be vested in a President
of the United States of America. He shall hold his office
during the term of four years, and, together with the
Vice-President, chosen for the same term, be elected as
follows" "The President shall, at stated times, receive
for his services a compensation, which shall neither be
increased nor diminished during the period for which
he shall have been elected." And provisions in the Seventeenth Amendment are of like effect.
The plain words of the Seventeenth Amendment and
those portions of the original Constitution directly affected

by it, should be kept in mind

Art. I, § 3-"The Senate

of the United States shall be composed of two Senators
from each State, chosen by the Legislature thereof, for
six years; and each Senator shall have one vote. Immediately after they shall be assembled in consequence
of the first election, they shall be divided as equally as
may be into three classes." "And if vacancies happen
by resignation, or otherwise, during the recess of the
legislature of any State, the executive thereof may make
temporary appointments until the next meeting of the
legislature, which shall then fill such vacancies." Seventeenth Amendment-"The Senate of the United States
shall be composed of two Senators from each State,
elected by the people thereof, for six years; and each
Senator shall have one vote. The electors in each State
shall have the qualifications requisite for electors Gf the
most numerous branch of the State legislatures. When
vacancies happen in the representation of any State in
the Senate, the executive authority of such State shall

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

issue writs of election to fill such vacancies: Provided,
That the legislature of any State may empower the
executive thereof to make temporary appointment until
the people fill the vacancies by election as the legislature
may direct. This amendment shall not be so construed
as to affect the election or term of any Senator chosen
before it becomes valid as part of the Constitution."
As finally submitted and adopted the Amendment
does not undertake to modify Art. I, § 4, the source of
congressional power to regulate the times, places and
manner cf holding elections. That section remains "intact and applicable both to the election of Representatives

and Senators."

(Cong. Rec., vol. 46, p. 848.)

When

first reported, January 11, 1911, by Senator Borah for
the Judiciary Committee, the proposed Seventeenth
.Amendment contained a clause providing, "The times,
places and manner of holding elections for Senators shall
be as prescribed in each state by the legislature thereof "the avowed purpose being thereby to modify § 4, Art. I,
by depriving Congress of power to regulate the manner
of holding elections for Senators. (A copy of the original
resolution as presented to the Senate is in the margin.)1
'S. J. Res., 134, 61st Congress, Cong. Rec., vol. 46, p. 847.
"Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States of America in Congress assembled (two-thirds of each
House concurring therein), That in lieu of the first paragraph of
section 3 of Article I of the Constitution of the United States, and in
lieu of so much of paragraph 2 of the same section as relates to the
filling of vacancies, and in lieu of all of paragraph 1 of section 4 of
said Article I, in so far as same relates to any authority in Congress
to make or alter regulations as to the times or manner of holding
elections for Senators, the following be proposed as an amendment
to the Constitution, which shall be valid to all intents and purposes
as part of the Constitution when ratified by the legislatures of threefourths of the States:
" 'The Senate of the United States shall be composed of two Senators
from each State, elected by the people thereof for six years; and each

NEWBERRY v. UNITED STATES.
232.

Opinion of the Court.

Upon recommendation of a minority of the Judiciary
Committee this clause was eliminated and reference to
§ 4, Art. I, omitted from the Resolution. After prolonged debate in the 61st and 62nd Congresses the
Amendment in its present form was submitted for ratification. See Sen. Rep. 961, 61st Cong., 3rd sess.; Sen.
Rep. 35, 62nd Cong., 1st ses.; Cong. Rec. vol. 46, pp. 847,
851, et 8eq.; vol. 47, passim, and pp. 1924, 1925, 1966.
Apparently because deemed unimportant no counsel
on either side referred to "An Act Providing a temporary
method of conducting the nomination and election of
United States Senators," approved June 4, 1914, c. 103,
38 Stat. 384. To show its irrelevancy and prevent misapprehension the act is copied in the margin.I Section
Senator shall have one vote. The electors in each State shall have
the qualifications requisite for electors of the most numerous branch
of the State legislatures.
"'The times, places, and manner of holding elections for Senators
shall be as prescribed in each State by the legislature thereof.
"'When vacancies happen in the representation of any State in the
Senate, the executive authority of such State shall issue writs of election
to fill such vacancies: Provided,That the legislature of any State may
empower the executive thereof to make temporary appointments
until the people fill the vacancies by election, as the legislature may
direct.
"'This amendment shall not be so construed as to affect, the election
or term of any Senator chosen before it becomes valid as part of the
Constitution.'"
IAct of June 4, 1914, c. 103, 38 Stat. 384.
"An Act Providing a temporary method of conducting the nomination and election of United States Senators.
"Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That at the regular election
held in any State next preceding the expiration of the term for which
any Senator was elected to represent such State in Congress, at, which
election a Representative to Congress is regularly by law to be chosen,
a United States Senator from said State shall be elected by the people
thereof for the term commencing on the fourth day of March next
thereafter.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

2, which contains the only reference to nomination of
candidates for Senator, expired by express limitation
June 4, 1917, more than a year prior to the conduct here
challenged. The act has no criminal provisions, makes
no reference to the earlier statute upon which this prosecution is founded and sheds no light on the power of Congress to regulate primaries and conventions. Its terms
indicate intention that the machinery for designating
party candidates shall remain under state control. But
in no view can an attempt to exercise power be treated as
conclusive evidence that Congress possesses such power.
Otherwise serious discussion of constitutional limitations
must cease. Moreover, the criminal statute now relied
upon antedates the Seventeenth Amendment and must be
tested by powers possessed at the time of its enactment.
An after-acquired power can not ex proprio vigore validate

a statute void when enacted. See Sutherland Stat.
Constr., 2nd ed., vol. I, § 107.
A concession that the Seventeenth Amendment might
"Sec. 2. That in any State wherein a United States Senator is
hereafter to be elected either at a general election or at any special
election called by the executive authority thereof to fill a vacancy,
until or unless otherwise specially provided by the legislature thereof,
the nomination of candidates for such office not heretofore made shall
be made, the election to fill the same conducted, and the result thereof
determined, as near as may be in accordance with the laws of such
State regulating the nomination of candidates for and election of
Members at Large of the National House of Representatives: Provided, That in case no provision is made in any State for the nomination
or election of Representatives at Large, the procedure shall be in
accordance with the laws of such State respecting the ordinary executive and administrative officers thereof who are elected by the vote of
the people of the entire State: And provided further, That in any case
the candidate for Senator receiving the highest number of votes shall
be deemed elected.
"Sec. 3. That section two of this Act shall expire by limitation at
the end of three years from the date of its approval."
Approved, June 4, 1914.

NEWBERRY v. UNITED STATES.
232.

Opinion of the Court.

be applicable in this controversy if assisted by appropriate
legislation would be unimportant since there is none.
Section 2, Act of June 4, 1914, had expired by express
limitation many months before Newberry became a candidate, and counsel very properly disregarded it.
Because deemed appropriate in order effectively to
regulate the manner of holding general elections, this
court has upheld federal statutes providing for supervisors
and prohibiting interference with them, declaring criminal
failure by election officers to perform duties imposed by
the State, and denouncing conspiracies to prevent voters
from freely casting their ballots or having them counted.
Ex parteSiebold, 100 U. S. 371; Ex parte Clarke, 100 U. S.
399; Ex parte Yarbrough, 110 U. S. 651; In re Coy, 127
U. S. 731; United States v. Mosley, 238 U. S. 383. These
enactments had direct and immediate reference to elections
by the people and decisions sustaining them do not control the present controversy. Congress clearly exercised
its power to regulate the manner of holding an election
when it directed that voting must be by written or printed
ballot or voting machines. c. 154, 30 Stat. 836.
Section 4 was bitterly attacked in the State Conventions
of 1787-1789, because of its alleged possible use to create
preferred classes and finally to destroy the States. In
defense, the danger incident to absolute control of elections by the States and the express limitations upon the
power, were dwelt upon. Mr. Hamilton asserted: "The
truth is that there is no method of securing to the rich the
preference apprehended, but by prescribing qualifications
of property either for those who may elect, or be elected.
But this forms no part of the power to be conferred upon
the National Government. Its authority would be
expressly restricted to the regulation of the times, the
places, ard the manner of elections. The qualifications
of the persons who may choose, or be chosen, as has been
remarked upon other occasions, are defined and fixed

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

25 U. S.

in the Constitution, and are unalterable by the Legislature." The Federalist, LIX, LI. The history of the
times indicates beyond reasonable doubt that, if the
Constitution makers had claimed for this section the
latitude we are now asked to sanction, it would not have
been ratified. See Story on the Const., §§ 814, et seq.
Our immediate concern is with the clause which grants
power by law to regulate the "manner of holding elections
for Senators and Representatives "-not broadly to regulate them. As an incident to the grant there is, of course,
power to make all laws which shall be necessary and proper
for carrying it into effect. Art. I, § 8, ci. 18. Although
the Seventeenth Amendment now requires Senators to be
chosen by the people, reference to the original plan of selection by the legislatures may aid in interpretation.
Who should participate in the specified elections was
clearly indicated-members of state legislatures and
those having "the qualifications requisite for electors
of the most numerous branch of the state legislature."
Who should be eligible for election was also stated. "No
person shall be a Representati-e who shall not have
attained the age of twenty-five years, and been seven
years a citizen of the United States, and who shall not,
when elected, be an inhabitant of that State in which he
shall be chosen." "No person shall be a Senator who
shall not have attained to the age of thirty years, and been
nine years a citizen of the United States, and who shall
not, when elected, be an inhabitant of that State for
which he shall be chosen." Two Senators were allotted
to each State and the method was prescribed for determining the number of Representatives. Subject to these
important limitations, Congress was empowered by law
to regulate the times, places and manner of holding the
elections, except as to the places of choosing Senators.
"These words are used without any veiled or obscure.
significance " but in their natural and usual sense.

NEWBERRY v. UNITED STATES.
232.

Opinion of the Court.

If it be practically true that under present conditions
adesignated party candidate is necessary for an electiona preliminary thereto-nevertheless his selection is in
no real sense part of the manner of holding the election.
This does not depend upon the scheme by which candidates
are put forward. Whether the candidate be offered
through primary, or convention, or petition, or request
of a few, or as the result of his own unsupported ambition,
does not directly affect the manner of holding the election.
Birth must precede but it is no part of either funeral or
apotheosis.
Many things are prerequisites to elections or may
affect their outcome--voters, education, means of transportation, health, public discussion, immigration, private
animosities, even the face and figure of the candidate;
but authority to regulate the manner of holding them
gives no right to control any of these. It is settled, e. g.,
that the power to regulate interstate and foreign commerce does not reach whatever is essential thereto. Without agriculture, manufacturing, mining, etc., commerce
could not exist, but this fact does not suffice to subject them
to the control of Congress. Kidd v. Pearson, 128 U. S. 1.
Elections of Senators by state legislatures presupposed
selection of their members by the people; but it would
hardly be argued that therefore Congress could regulate
such selection. In the Constitutional Convention of
1787, when replying to the suggestion that state legislatures should have uncontrolled power over elections
of members of Congress, Mr. Madison said: "It seems
as improper in principle, though it might be less inconvenient in practice, to give to the state legislatures this
great authority over the election of the representatives
of the people in the general legislature, as it would be to
give to the latter a like power over the election of their
representatives in the state legislatures." Supplement
to Elliot's Debates, vol. V, p. 402.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
WHITE, CH. J.,

concurring in part.

256 U. S.

We cannot conclude that authority to control party
primaries or conventions for designating candidates was
bestowed on Congress by the grant of power to regulate
the manner of holding elections. The fair intendment of
the words does not extend so far; the framers of the Constitution did not ascribe to them any such meaning.
Nor is this control necessary in order to effectuate the
power expressly granted. On the other hand, its exercise
would interfere with purely domestic affairs of the State
and infringe upon liberties reserved to the people.
It should not be forgotten that, exercising inherent
police power, the State may suppress whatever evils may
be incident to primary or convention. As "Each House
shall be the judge of the elections, returns and qualifications of its own members," and as Congress may by
law regulate the times, places and manner of holding
elections, the National Government is not without power
to protect itself against corruption, fraud or other malign
influences.
The judgment of the court below must be reversed
and the cause remanded for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUsTICE

McKYENNA concurs in this opinion as

applied to the statute under consideration which was
enacted prior to the Seventeenth Amendment; but he
reserves the question of the power of Congress under that
Amendment.
M111. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE, dissenting from the opinion,
but concurring with a modification -in the judgment of
reversal:
The conviction and sentence under review were based
on an indictment charging a conspiraoy to commit vio-

NEWBERRY v. UNITED STATES.
232.

WrE, Ch. J., concurring in part.

lations of the act of Congress known as the Corrupt
Practices Act, as made applicable to state laws dealing
with state nominating primaries for, and the ensuing
state elections 6f, United States Senators and Representatives in Congress. The case is here by direct writ of
error, because of the contention that primaries of that character are not subject to the regulating power of Congress,
and as an incident there is involved the contention that,
even if the act of Congress was constitutional, it had been
prejudicially misconstrued. Sustaining the first of these
contentions and therefore deciding the act to be unconstitutional, the court reverses and finally disposes of the
case.- Although I am unable to concur in the conclusion
as to the want of power of Congress and in the judgment of reversal as rendered, I am nevertheless of opinion
that there should be a judgment of reversal without
prejudice to a new trial, because of the grave misapprehension and grievous misapplication of the statute upon
which the conviction and sentence below were based.
I state the reasons which control me as to both these
subjects.
By an amendment to the Corrupt Practices Act of 1910,
Congress, in 1911, dealt with state primaries for the
nomination of Senators and Representatives in Congress
and with the election after nomination of such candidates
(Act of June 25, 1910, c. 392, 36 Stat. 822; Act of August 19,
1911, c. 33, § 8, 37 Stat. 25, 28). At that time there
existed in the State of Michigan a law regulating state
nominating primaries which included candidates for
state offices as well as for the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States. These primaries were
held in the month of August in each year preceding the
November general election. By that law the result of
the primaries determined the right to have a person's
name placed as a candidate on the ballot at the general
election, and, in the case of United States Senators,

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
WsITE,

Ch. J., concurring in part.

256 U. S.

provision was made for the return of the result of the
primary to the state legislature before the time when the
duty of that body to elect a Senator would arise.
The Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution,
providing for the election of United States Senators by
popular vote, was promulgated in May, 1913. In June,
1914, Congress by legislation carrying out the Amendment provided that thereafter Senators should be elected
by popular vote, and, where state laws to that effect
existed, made them applicable. But, evidently to give
time for the States to enact the necessary legislation
substituting for election by the legislature the method
of election established by the Amendment, it was provided that, where no law for primaries by popular vote
as to Senators existed, that subject should be controlled
by the state law regulating primaries for the nomination
of Representative at Large, if provided for, and if not,
by the provisions controlling as to primaries for general
state officers, the operation of these latter provisions
being expressly limited to a term of three years (Act
of June 4, 1914, c. 103, 38 Stat. 384). Within the time
thus fixed and before the election which was held in this
case, the State of Michigan, in order to conform its laws
to the Amendment, modified them so as to provide for
the election of Senators by popular vote, and made the
general nominating state primary law applicable to that
condition (Act No. 156, Mich. Acts of 1915), and, by
virtue of the Amendment, the act of Congress, and the
state law just stated, the primary with which we are
concerned in this case was held in August, 1918.
The plaintiff in error, 'Newberry, was a candidate for
the nomination of the Republican party as United States
Senator, and, having been nominated at such primary,
became a candidate at the ensuing November election,
and was returned as elected. Subsequently the indictment under which the conviction below was had was

NEWBERRY v. UNITED STATES.
232.

Wwii, CH. J., ooncurring in part.

presented, charging him and others, in six counts, with
a conspiracy to commit violations of provisions of the
Corrupt Practices Act relating to state nominating
primaries as well as to the resulting general election.
It is not at this moment necessary to describe the nature
of these accusations further, since it is not questioned
that the indictment charged a conspiracy to commit
crimes within the intendment of the Corrupt Practices
Act and hence involved the question of the constitutional
power of Congress which the court now adversely decides
and the basis for which I now come to consider.
As tha nominating primary was held after the adoption
of the Seventeenth Amendment, the power must have
been sanctioned by that Amendment, but for the purpose
of clarity I consider the question of the power, first
from the provisions of the Constitution as they existed
before the Amendment, and second in contemplation
of the light thrown upon the subject by the force of the
Amendment.
The provisions of §§ 2 and 3 of Article I of the Constitution, fixing the composition of the House of Representatives and of the Senate and providing for the election
of Representatives by vote of the people of the several
States and of Senators by 'the state legislatures, were
undoubtedly reservoirs of vital federal power constituting
the generative sources of the provisions of § 4, cl. 1, of
the same Article,, creating the means for vivifying the
bodies previously ordained (Senate and House), that
is, providing: "The times, places and manner of holding
elections for Senators and Representatives, shall be prescribed in each State by the Legislature thereof; but the
Congress may at any time by law make or alter such
regulations, except as to the places of choosing Senators."
As without this grant no state power on the subject
was possessed, it follows that the state power to create
primaries as to United States Senators depended upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
WHITE, CH.

J., concurring in part.

256 U. S.

the grant for its existence. It also follows that, as the
conferring of the power on the States and the reservation
of the authority in Congress to regulate were absolutely
coterminous, except as to the place of choosing Senators
which is not here relevant, it results that nothing is
possible of being done under the former which is not
subjected to the limitation imposed by the latter. And
this is illustrated by the legislation of Congress and the
decisions of this court upholding the same. See, "Act
to regulate the Times and Manner of holding Elections
for Senators in Congress," approved July 25, 1866, 14
Stat. 243; Act of May 31, 1870, 16 Stat. 144; Act of July 14,
1870, 16 Stat. 254; Act of June 10, 1872, 17 Stat. 347;
Ex parte Siebold, 100 U. S. 371; Ex pare Clarke, 100 U. S.
399; Ex parte Yarbrough, 110 U. S. 651; United States v.
Mosley, 238 U. S. 383.
But it is said that, as the power which is challenged
here is the right of a State to provide for and regulate
a state primary for nominating United States Senators
free from the control of Congress, and not the election
of such Senators, therefore, as the nominating primary
is one thing and the-election anotber and different thing,
the power of the State as to the primary is not governed
by the right of Congress to regulate the times and manner
of electing Senators. But the proposition is a suicidal
one, since it at one and the same time retains in the State
the only power it could possibly have as delegated by the
clause in question and refuses to give effect to the regulating control which the clause confers on Congress as
to that very power. And mark, this is emphasized by
the consideration that there is no denial here that the
States possess the power over the federal subject resulting from the provision of the Constitution, but a holding
that Congress may not exert as to such power to regulate
authority which the terms of the identical clause of the
Constitution confer upon it.

NEWBERRY v. UNITED STATES.
232.

WHr , CH. J., concurring in part.

But, putting these contradictions aside, let me test
the contention from other and distinct points of view:
(1,) In last analysis the contention must rest upon the
proposition that there is such absolute want of relation
between the power of government to regulate the right
of the citizen to seek a nomination for a public office
and its authority to regulate the election after nomination,
that a paramount government authority having the
right to regulate the latter is without any power as to
the former. The influence of who is nominated for
elective office upon the result of the election to fill that
office is so known of all men that the proposition may
be left to destroy itself by its own statement.
(2) Moreover, the proposition, impliedly at least, excludes from view the fact that the powers conferred upon
Congress by the Constitution carry with them the right
"to make all laws which shall be necessary and proper
for carrying into execution the foregoing powers "
(Art. I, § 8, cl. 18), and in doing so virtually disregards
the previous legislative history and the decisions of this
court sanctioning the same, to which we have referred,
since that practice and those decisions unmistakably
recognize that the power under the clause in question
extends to all the prerequisite and appropriate incidents
necessary to the discharge of the authority given.
(3) From a somewhat different point of view the same
result is even more imperatively required. Thus, as has
been seen, the election was had under the Seventeenth
Amendment to the Constitution, providing for the election of Senators by popular vote instead of by the state
legislatures. In the resolution providing for the passage
of that Amendment through Congress, as first reported
by Senator Borah on behalf of the judiciary committee,
after making the changes necessary to substitute a provision causing Senators to be elected by popular vote
instead of by the legislatures of the several States, the

264

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
WHIM, CH.J., concurring in part.

256 U. S.

provision of § 4 of Article I reserving to Congress the
power "to make or alter," except as to places, the regulations adopted by the several States as to the "times,
places and manner " of electing Senators, was omitted,
thus leaving all power on the subject in the States, free
from any regulating control of Congress. (S. Rep. 961,
61st Cong., 3d sess.)
There was division, however, concerning the matter,
manifested by a proposition to amend the resolution,
as reported, so as to retain the omitted provision, thus
preserving the power-of Congress as originally conferred
(Cong. Rec., vol. 46, Part 1, p. 847). The legislative
situation thus created was aptly stated by Senator Borah,
referring to the report of the committee and to the proposition (submitted by Senator Sutherland of Utah) to
amend that report and the resolution accompanying it.
He said:
"In reference to the amendment which has been suggested by the Senator from Utah [Mr. Sutherland], it
was considered at some length before the committee. The
proposition is a simple one. As the joint resolution now
stands, the times, places, and manner of electing United
States Senators is left entirely to the State. The State
may determine the rules and regulations, and the times,
places, and manner of holding elections for United States
Senators.
"If the amendment as offered by the Senator from Utah
should prevail, then the matter would be left as it now is,
subject to the supervision and control of Congress."I
After much consideration, the amendment offered by
But the reported
Senator Sutherland was carried.'
resolution, as thus amended, did not pass during that
Congress. In the first session of the following Congress,
however, the 62d Congress, a resolution identical in
' Cong. Rec., vol. 46, Part 1, p. 851.
2 Cong. Rec., vol. 46, Part 4, p. 3307.

NEWBERRY v. UNITED STATES.
232.

WHri=, Ca. J., concurring in part.

terms with the one which had been reported in the Senate
at the previous session was introduced in the House and
passed the same.' In the Senate the House resolution
was favorably reported from the committee by Senator
Borah,2 accompanied, however, by a minority report by
Senator Sutherland,3 offering as a substitute a resolution
preserving the complete power of Congress, as had been
provided for in the Senate in the previous Congress, and
an amendment to the same effect offered by Senator
Bristow was subsequently adopted, and as thus amended
the resolution was ultimately submitted for ratification,
and, as we have seen, was ratified and promulgated. (38
Stat. 2049.)
When the plain purpow of the Amendment is thus
seen, and it is borne in mind that, at the time it was
pending, the amendment to the Corrupt Practices Act
dealing with state primaries for nominating United
States Senators which is now before us was in the process
of consideration in Congress, and when it is further
remembered that, after the passage of the Amendment,
Congress enacted legislation, so that the Amendment
might be applied to state senatorial primaries, there
would seem to be an end to all doubt as to the power
of Congress.
It is not disputable that originally instructions to
representatives in state legislatures by party- conventions
or by other unofficial bodies, as to the persons to be
elected as United States Senators, were resorted to as a
means of indirectly controlling that subject and thus, in
a sense, restricting the constitutional provision as to
the mode of electing Senators. The potentiality of
instructions of that character to accomplish that result is
H. Rep., No. 2, 62d Cong., 1st ses.
'Cong. Rec., vol. 47, Part 1, p. 787.
S. Rep., No. 35, 62d Cong., 1st sess.
' Cong. Rec., vol. 47, Part 2, p. 1205.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
WHITE, CH. J., concurring in part.

256 U. S.

amply shown by the development of our constitutional
institutions as regards the electoral college, where it has
come to pass that the unofficial nomination of party
has rendered the discharge of its duties by the electoral
college a mere matter of form. That in some measure at
least a tendency to that result came about under the
constitutional direction that Senators should be elected by
the people [legislatures] would appear not doubtful. The
situation on this subject is illustrated by a statement in a
treatise by Haynes on "Election of Senators," 1906, p. 132,
as follows:
"Notwithstanding our rigid Constitution's decree that
the senators from the several States shall be elected by
'the legislatures thereof,' this act of the legislatures may
be deprived of nearly all of its vitality. The election
of President offers an illustration of the filching of actual
power away from the electors in whom it is vested by
law. When James Russell Lowell, a Republican elector
for Massachusetts in 1876, was urged to exercise his
independence and vote for Tilden, he declined, saying
that 'whatever the first intent of the Constitution was,
usage had made the presidential electors strictly the
instruments of the party which chose them.' The Constitution remains unchanged, yet presidential electors
recognize that they have been stripped of all discretion.
It appears that under certain conditions the election
of Senators by state legislatures has been and can be
made an equally perfunctory affair."
The growth of the tendency to make the indirect result
thus stated more effective evidently was the genesis of
the statutory primary to nominate Senators. See statement concerning an amendment to the constitution of
Nebraska on that subject as early as 1875, in the same
treatise, p. 141.
The large number of States which at this day have by
law established senatorial primaries shows the develop-

NEWBERRY v. UNITED STATES.
232.

WnrTz, CH. J., concurring in part.

ment of the movement which originated so long ago under
the circumstances just stated. They serve to indicate
the tenacity of the conviction that the relation of the
primary to the election is so intimate that the influence
of the former is largely determinative of the latter. I
have appended in the margin a statement from a publication on the subject,1 showing how well founded this
conviction is and how it has come to pass that in some
cases at least the result of the primary has been in substance to render the subsequent election merely perfunctory. Under these conditions I find it impossible
to say that the admitted power of Congress to control and
regulate the election of Senators does not embrace, as
"In many western and southern states the direct primary method
has been applied to the choice of United States senators as well as to
state officers.' In the southern states, victory in such a primary, on
the Democratic side, is practically the equivalent of an electiob, as
there is but one effective party in that section of the country. The
direct nomination of senators is generally accomplished under voluntary
party regulations, as in Alabama, Arkansas, South Carolina, and
Virginia. In other cases, however, this method of choice has been
placed under legal protection, as in Florida (1901), Mississippi (1902),
Louisiana (1906), and Texas (1907). Some northern states have also
adopted this method of direct nomination. Among northern states,
Wisconsin led the way in 1903, followed by Oregon in 1904, Montana
in 1905, Iowa, Washington, Nebraska, North Dakota in 1907, Illinois,
Kansas, New Jersey, Ohio, and Oklahoma in 1908. . . . In some
of the states, as in Oregon, candidates for the legislature are afforded an
opportunity to pledge themselves to vote for the party candidate
receiving the highest vote in the regular election. In other cases a
pledge is made to vote for the candidate receiving the highest number
of votes in the primary.2" (Merriam, Primary Elections, 1908, pp.

83-85.)
, On this general topic, see the excellent treatise on The Election of
Senators, by George H. Haynes (1906), especially c. XI.
tOregoi, '1904, § 13. In Washington the candidate may pledge
himself to vote for the party choice for United States senator (1907
§ 31). This latter is the general rule.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
WimT,

CH. J., concurring in part.

256 U.S.

appropriate to that power, the authority to regulate the
primary held under state authority.
(4) It is true that the plenary reservation in Congress
of the power to control the States in the exercise of the
authority to deal with the times, places, and manner of
electing Senators and Representatives, as originally
expressed in the Constitution, caused much perturbation
in the conventions of the several States which were
called upon to consider ratification, resulting from the
fear that such power to regulate might be extended to
and embrace the regulation of the election of the members
of the state legislatures who were to exercise the power
to elect Senators. It is further true that articles in the
Federalist and other papers published at the time served
to dispel the fear by directing attention to the fact that
the regulating power of Congress only extended to the
times and manner of electing Senators and did not
include an authority, even by implication, to deal with
the election of the state legislatures, which was a power
reserved to the States. But this only served to emphasize the distinction between the state and federal
power and affords no ground at this late day for saying
that the reserved state power has absorbed and renders
impossible of exercise the authority of Congress to regulate the federal power concerning the election of United
States Senators, submitted, to the extent provided, to the
authority of the States upon the express condition that
such authority should be subordinate to and controlled
by congressional regulation.
Can any other conclusion be upheld except upon the
theory that the phantoms of attenuated and unfounded
doubts conuerning the meaniag of the Constitution,
which have long perished, may now be revived for the
purpose of depriving Congress of the right to exert a
power essential to its existence, and this in the face of
the fact that the only basis for the doubts which arose in

NEWBERRY v. UNITED STATES.
232.

WmwT, CH. J., concurring in part.

the beginning (the election of Senators by the state
legislatures) has been completely removed by the Seventeenth Amendment?
I do not stop to refer to the state cases concerning the
distinction between state legislative power to deal with
elections and its authority to control primaries, as I
cannot discover the slightest ground upon which they
could be apposite, since here an inherent federal right
and the provision of the Constitution in dealing with it
are the subjects for consideration.

Moreover, in passing, I observe that, as this case concerns a state primary law imposing obligatory results,
and the act of Congress dealing with the same, it is obvious
that the effect of individual action is wholly beside the
issue.
The consequence to result from a denial to Congress
of the right to regulate is so aptly illustrated by the case
in hand that in leaving the question I refer to it. Thus,
it is stated and not denied that, in the state primary in
question, one of the candidates, as permitted by the state
law, propounded himself at the primary election as the
candidate for the nomination for Senator of both the
Republican and the Democratic parties. If the candidacy
had been successful as to both, the subsequent election
would have been reduced to the merest form.
In view, then, of the plain text of the Constitution, of
the power exerted under it from the beginning, of the
action of Congress in its legislation, and of the amendment to the Constitution, as well as of the legislative
action of substantially the larger portion of the States,
I can see no reason for now denying the power of Congress to regulate a subject which from its very nature
inheres in and is concerned with the election of Senators
of the United States, as provided by the Constitution.
The indictment remains to be considered. It contained
six counts. For the moment, it suffices to say that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
WmE, Cn. J., concurring in part.

256 U. S.

first four all dealt with a common subject, that is, a
conspiracy between Newberry and others named to contribute and expend, for the purposes of the state primary
and general election, more money than allowed by the
Corrupt Practices Act. The fifth count charged a conspiracy on the part of the defendants to commit a great
number, to wit, one thousand, offenses against the United
States,- each to consist of giving money and things of
value to a person to vote for Newberry at said election,
and a great, number, to wit, one thousand, other offenses
against the United States, each to consist of giving money
and things of value to a person to withhold his vote from
Henry Ford at said general election. The sixth count
charged a conspiracy to defraud by use of the mails.
At the trial, before the submission of the case to the
jury, the court put the fifth count entirely out of the
case by instructing the jury to disregard it, as there was
no evidence whatever to sustain it. The bribery charge,
therefore, disappeared. The second, third and fourth
counts, dealing, as I have said, with one general subject,
were found by the court to be all in substance contained
in the first count. They were, therefore, by direction of
the court, either eliminated or consolidated with the
first count. Thus, as contained in that count, the matters
charged in the first four counts were submitted to the
jury, as was also the sixth count; but the latter we need
not further consider, as upon it there was a verdict of
not guilty.
The case therefore reduces itself solely to the matters
covered in the first count. That count charged a conspiracy on the part of the defendants, 135 in number,
including Newberry, to commit an offense against the
United States, that is, the offense on the part of Newberry of violating the Corrupt Practices Act by giving,
contributing, expending and using and by causing to
be given, contributed, expended and used, in procuring

NEWBERRY v. UNITED STATES.
232.

Wnim, CH. J., concurring in part.

his nomination and election as such Senator at said primary and general elections, a sum in excess of the amount
which he might lawfully give, contribute, expend or use,
and cause to be given, contributed, expended or used for
such purpose under the laws of Michigan, and in excess
of $10,000, to wit, the sum of $100,000; and on the part
of the other defendants of aiding, counseling, inducing,
and procuring Newberry as such candidate to give, contribute, expend and use, or cause to be given, contributed,
expended or used, said large and excessive sum, in order
to procure his nomination and election.
Conspiracy to contribute and expend in excess of
the amount permitted by the statute was, then, the sole
imsue, wholly disassociated from and disconnected with
any corrupt or wrongful use of the amount charged to
have been illegally contributed and expended. As, putting out of view the constitutional question already
considered, the errors asgned are based solely upon asserted misconstructions of the statute by the court in
ts charge to the jury, we bring the statute at once into
view. It provides, so far as relevant to the case before us:
"No candidate for
Senator of the United
States shall give, contribute, expend, use, or promise,
or cause to be given, contributed, expended, used, or
promised, in procuring his nomination and election, ary
sum, in the aggregate, in excess of the amount which he
may lawfully give, contribute, expend, or promise under
the laws of the State in which he resides: Provided, That
. . .no candidate for Senator of the United States
shall give, contribute, expend, use, or promise any sum,
in the aggregate, exceeding ten thousand dollars in any
campaign for his nomination and election:
"
Coming to deal with the statute, the court, after pointing out n the most explicit terms that the limitation on
the amount which might be lawfully contributed and
expended or caused to be contributed and expended in

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
WHiTE,

CH.J., concurring in part.

256 U. S.

the case at hand was $3,750 (that being the limitation
imposed by the laws of Michigan adopted by the statute
of the United States just quoted), then proceeded, over
objections duly reserved, to instruct as to the significance
of the statute, involved in the prohibitions, (a) against
giving, contributing, expending, or using, and (b) against
causing to be given, contributed, expended, or used,
money in excess of that permitted by the statute, saying
on these subjects as follows:
(a) "It is important, therefore, that you should understand the meaning of the language employed in this
Corrupt Practices Act, and that you should understand
and comprehend the effect and scope of the act, and the
meaning of the language there employed, and the effect
and scope and extent of the prohibition against the
expenditure and use of money therein contained.
"The words 'Give, contribute, expend or use' as
employed in this statute have their usual and ordinary
significance, and mean furnish, pay out, disburse, employ, or make use of. The term 'To cause to be expended,
or used' as it is employed in this statute, means to
occasion, to effect, to bring about, to produce the expenditure and use of the money.
"The prohibition contained in this statute against the
expenditure and use of money by- the candidate is not
limited or confined to the expenditure and use of his own
money. The prohibition is directed against the use and
expenditure of excessive sums of money by the candidate
from whatever source or from whomsoever those moneys
may be derived."
(b) "The phrase which constitutes the prohibition
against the candidate 'Causing to be given, contributed,
expended or used excessive sums of money,' is not limited
and not confined to expenditures and use of money made
directly and personally by himself. This prohibition
extends to the expenditure and use of excessive sums of

NEWBERRY v. UNITED STATES.
232.

WmTz, CH. J., concurring in part.

money in which the candidate actively participates, or
assists, or advises, or directs, or induces, or procures.
The prohibition extends not only to the expenditure and
use of excessive sums of money by the candidate directly
and personally, but to such use and expenditure through
his agency, or procurement or assistance.
"To constitute a violation of this statute knowledge
of the expenditure and use of excessive sums of money
on the part of the candidate is not sufficient; neither is it
sufficient to constitute a violation of this statute that the
candidate merely acquiesces in such expenditures and
use. But it is sufficient to constitute a violation of this
statute if the candidate actively participates in doing
the things which occasion such expenditures and use of
money and so actively participates with knowledge that
the money is being expended and used."
Having thus fixed the meaning of the prohibitions of
the statute, the court came to apply them as thus defined
to the particular case before it, saying:
(c) "To apply these rules to this case: If you are satisfied from the evidence that the defendant Truman H.
Newberry at or about the time that he became a candidate
for United States Senator was informed and knew that
his campaign for the nomination and election would require the expenditure and use of more money than is
permitted by law and with such knowledge became a
candidate, and thereafter by advice, by conduct, by his
acts, by his direction, by his counsel, or by his procurement he actively participated and took part in the expenditure and use of an excessive sum of money, of an
unlawful sum of money, you will be warranted in finding
that he did violate this statute known as the Corrupt
Practices Act."
Whether the instructions marked (a) and (b), if unexplained, were, in view of the ambiguity lurking in
many of the expressions used therein, prejudicially

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
WHrr, Ca. J., concurring in part.

256 U. S.

erroneous, I do not think necessary to consider, since I
see no escape from the conclusion that the instruction
marked (c), which made application of the view of the
statute stated in the previous passages (a) and (b), was
in clear conflict with the text of the statute and was
necessarily of a seriously prejudicial nature, since in substance it announced the doctrine that, under the statute,
although a candidate for the office of Senator might not
have contributed a cent to the campaign or caused others
to do so, he nevertheless was guilty if he became a candidate or continued as such after acquiring knowledge
that more than $3,750 had been contributed and was
being expended in the campaign. The error in the instruction plainly resulted from a failure to distinguish
between the subject with which the statute dealtcontributions and expenditures made or caused to be
made by the candidate-and campaign contributions
and expenditures not so made or caused to be made,
and therefore not within the statute.
There can be no doubt, when the linfitations as to
expenditure which the statute imposed are considered
in the light of its context and its genesis, that its prohibitions on that subject were intended, not to restrict
the right of the citizen to contribute to a campaign, but
to prohibit the candidate from contributing and expending or causing to be contributed and expended, to secure
his nomination and election, a larger amount than the
sum limited as provided in the statute. To treat the
candidacy, as did the charge of the court, as being necessarily the cause, without more, of the contribution of
the citizen to the campaign, was therefore to confound
things which were wholly different, to the frustration of
the very object and purpose of the statute. To illustrate:
Under the instruction given, in every case where to the
knowledge of the candidate a sum in excess of the amount
limited by the statute was contributed by citizens to the

NEWBERRY v. UNITED STATES.
232. Pnr,

BBANrDis and C~imu, JJ., concurring in part.

campaign, the candidate, if he failed to withdraw, would
be subject to criminal prosecution and punishment. So
also, contributions by citizens to the expenses of the
campaign, if only knowledge could be brought home to
them that the aggregate of such contributions would
exceed the limit of the statute, would bring them, as
illustrated by this case, within the conspiracy statute
and accordingly subject to prosecution. Under this
view, the greater the public service, and the higher the
character, of the candidate, giving rise to a correspondingly complete and self-sacrificing support by the electorate to his candidacy, the more inevitably would
criminality and infamous punishment result both to the
candidate and to the citizen who contributed.
As it follows from the considerations which I have
stated that the judgment below was, in my opinion, clearly
wrong and therefore should be reversed, it is not necessary
that I should go further and point out how cogently under
the case presented the illustrations just previously made
apply to it. For the reasons stated, although I dissent
from the ruling of the court as to the unconstitutionality
of the act of Congress, I nevertheless think its judgment
of reversal should be adopted, qualified, however, so as
to reserve the right to a new trial.
Mi. JusTIcz PITNEY, concurring in part:

I concur in the judgment reversing the conviction of
plaintiffs in error, but upon grounds fundamentally
different from those adopted by the majority: my view
being that there is no constitutional infirmity in the act
of Congress that underlies the indictment, but that there
was an error in the submission of the case to the jury
that calls for a new trial.
The constitutional question is so important that it
deserves treatment at length.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
P=ET, BRA DEis and CLARKE, JJ., concurring in pwat.

256 U. S.

The Federal Corrupt Practices Act (Act of June 25,
1910, c. 392, 36 Stat. 822; amended by Act of August 19,
1911, c. 33, 37 Stat. 25, 28) limits the amount of money
that may be given, contributed, expended, used, or
promised, or caused to be given, contributed, expended,
used, or promised by a candidate for Representative in
Congress or for Senator of the United States in procuring
his nomination and election, to a sum not in excess of
the amount he may lawfully give, contribute, expend, or
promise under the laws of the State of his residence; with
a proviso that in the case of a candidate for Representative
the amount shall not exceed $5,000, and in the case of a
candidate for Senator shall not exceed $10,000, in any
campaign for nomination and election; and a further
proviso that any assessment, fee, or charge made or
levied upon candidates by the laws of the State, or moneys
expended for the candidate's necessary personal expenses
for travel and subsistence, stationery and postage, writing
or printing (other than in newspapers), and distributing
letters, circulars, and posters, and for telegraph and
telephone service, shall not be regarded as an expenditure
or considered as a part of the sum fixed as the limit of
expense. Section 10 of the act (36 Stat. 824), renumbered
as § 11 by the amendment (37 Stat. 26), prescribes fine
or imprisonment for a willful violation of any of its provisions. The act and amendment were passed before
the adoption of the Seventeenth Amendment, providing
for the election of Senators by direct vote of the people
(declared adopted May 31, 1913; 38 Stat. 2049); but it
is clear-indeed undisputed-that, for present purposes,
they are to receive the same construction and effect as
if enacted after adoption of the Amendment.
The present case arose out of a campaign for nomination and election of a Senator in the State of Michigan,
where a statute (Act No. 109, § 1, Mich. Pub. Acts, 1913)
limits the amount of money that may be paid, and of

NEWBERRY v. UNITED STATES.
232. Pmiuy, BwRnrns and CLAmz, JJ., eonurring in part.

expenses that may be authorized or incurred by or on
behalf of any candidate to be paid by him in order to
secure his nomination to any public office in the State, to
25 per centum of one year's salary of the office, and imposes a similar limit upon expenditures by or on behalf
of any candidate who has received the nomination. By
§ 19 of the same statute "public office" is made to apply
to any national office filled by the voters of the State, as
well as to the office of presidential elector and United
States Senator. The acts of Congress, in connection
with the statute of the State, limit the amount that a
candidate for Senator of the United States may give,
contribute, expend, use, or promise, or cause to be given,
contributed, expended, used, or promised, in procuring
his nomination and election, to $3,750 in the aggregate,
aside from those expenditures that are specifically permitted without limit.
Plaintiffs in error were indicted and convicted in the
United States District Court for a conspiracy (§37,
Criminal Code) to commit an offense against the United
States, to wit, the offense, on the part of Truman H. Newberry, of willfully violating the acts of Congress above
referred to by giving, contributing, expending, and using,
and by causing to be given, contributed, expended, and
used, in procuring his nomination and election as Senator
of the United States at the primary and general elections
in the year 1918, a sum in excess of the amount thus
limited, to wit, the sum of $100,000, and on the part of
the other defendants of aiding, counseling, inducing, and
procuring (1 332, Criminal Code) said Truman H. Newberry so to give, contribute, expend, and use, and cause
to be given, contributed, expended, and used said large
sums of money in excess of the amounts permitted, etc.;
no part of which money was to be expended for any of
the purposes specifically permitted without limit; numerous overt acts being alleged to have been done by one

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Prrrz, BRANDS

and CT.Agx, JJ., concurring in part.

256 U. S.

or more parties defendant to effect the object of the conspiracy.
The averments of the indictment and the evidence at
the trial related especially to expenditures contemplated
to be made, and in fact made, to bring about Mr. Newberry's selection at a nominating or primary election
held in August, 1918, with only minor expenditures made
after that date and in contemplation of the general election which was held in the following November. The
case is brought to this court by direct writ of error, upon
the fundamental contention that the acts of Congress,
in so far as they assume to regulate primary elections and
limit the expenditures of money that may be made or
caused to be made by a candidate therein, are in excess
of the power conferred upon Congress to regulate the
"manner of holding elections for Senators and Representatives" by §4 of Article I of the Constitution of
the United States. This question was raised, but not
decided, in United Stata v. Gradoell, 243 U. S. 476,
487-488; Blair v. United Staie, 250 U. S. 273, 278279.
For reasons to be stated below, I consider it erroneous
to treat the question as dependent upon the words of the
cited section alone. I will, however, first deal with that
section, viewing it in connection with other provisions
immediately associated with it and here quoted-:
"Article I. Section 1. All legislative Powers herein
granted shall be vested in a Congress of the United States,
which shall consist of a Senate and House of Representatives.
"Section 2. The House of Representatives shall be
composed of Members chosen every second Year by the
People of the several States, and the Electors in each
State shall have the Qualifications requisite for Electors
of the most numerous Branch of the State Legislature

NEWBERRY v. UNITED STATES.
232.

Primr, Bwmuis and C0L&Mm, JJ., concurring in part.

(Section 3 is superseded by the Seventeenth Amendment, which provides):
"Article XVII. The Senate of the United States shall
be composed of two Senators from each State, elected by
the people thereof, . . . The electors in each State
shall have the qualifications requisite for electors of the
most numerous branch of the State legislatures.
"
"Section 4. The Times, Places and Manner of holding Elections for Senators and Representatives, shall be
prescribed in each State by the Legislature thereof; but
the Congress may at any time by Law make or alter such
Regulations, except as to the Places of chusing Senators
"Section 5.

Each House shall be the Judge of the

Elections, Returns and Qualifications of its own Membens,

.

.

It is contended that Congress has no power to regulate
the amount of money that may be expended by a candidate to secure his being named in the primary election;

that the power "to regulate the manner of holding elections," etc., relates solely to the general elections where
Senators or Representatives are finally chosen. Why
should "the manner of holding elections " be so narrowly
construed? An election is the choosing of a person by
vote to fill a public office. In the nature of things it is a
complex proces, involving some examination of the
qualifications of those from whom the choice is to be
made and of those by whom it is to be made; some opportunity for the electors to consider and canvass the claims
of the eligibles; and some method of narrowing the choice
by eliminating candidates until one finally secures a
majority, or at least a plurality, of the votes. For the
process of elimination, instead of tentative elections participated in by all the ele tors, nominations by parties
or groups of citizens have obtained in the United States
from an early period. Latterly the processes of nomin-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
PiT-Ey, BRA-N'DEIS and CLARKE, JJ., concurring in part.

256 U. S.

ation have been regulated by law in many of the States,
through the establishment of official primary elections.
But in the essential sense, a sense that fairly comports
with the object and purpose of a Constitution such as
ours, which deals in broad outline with matters of substance and is remarkable for succinct and pithy modes
of expression, all of the various processes above indicated
fall fairly within the definition of "the manner of holding
elections." This is not giving to the word "elections "
a significance different from that which it bore when the
Constitution was adopted, but is simply recognizing a
content that of necesgity always inhered in it. The
nature of that instrument required, as Chief Justice
Marshall pointed out in McCuVoch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat.
316, 407, "that only its great outlines should be marked,
its important objects designated, and the minor ingredients which compose those objects, be deduced from
the nature of the objects themselves."
It is said that § 4 of Art. I does not confer a general
power to regulate elections, but only to regulate "the
manner of holding" them. But this can mean nothing
less than the entire mode of procedure-the essence, not
merely the form, of conducting the elections. The only
specific grant of power over the subject contained in the
Constitution is contained in that section; and the power
is conferred primarily upon the legislatures of the several
States, but subject to revision and modification by Congress. If the preliminary processes of such an election
are to be treated as something so separate from the final
choice that they are not within the power of Congress
under this provision, they are for the same reason not
within the power of the States, and, if there is no other
grant of power, they must perforce remain wholly unregulated. For if this section of the Constitution is to be
strictly construed with respect to the power granted to
Congress thereunder, it must be construed with equal

NEWBERRY v. UNITED STATES.

232. Prrmy, Bau&mzxs and CiMME, JJ., concuring in part.
strictness with respect to the power conferred upon the
States; if the authority to regulate the "manner of holding elections" does not carry with it ex vi terminiauthority
to regulate the preliminary election held for the purpose
of proposing candidates, then the States can no more
exercise authority over this than Congress can; much
less an authority exclusive of that of Congress. For the
election of Senators and Representatives in Congress
is a federal function; whatever the States do in the matter
they do under authority derived from the Constitution
of the United States. The reservation contained in the
Tenth Amendment cannot properly operate upon this
subject in favor of the state governments; they could not
reserve power over a matter that had no previous existence; hence if the power was not delegated to the United
States it must be deemed to have been reserved to the
people, and would require a constitutional amendment
to bring it into play--a deplorable result of strict construction.
But if I am wrong in this, and the power to regulate
primary elections could be deemed to have been reserved
by the States to the exclusion of Congress, the result
would be to leave the general Government destitute of
the means to insure its own preservation without governmental aid from the States, which they might either
grant or withhold according to their own will. This
would render the Government of the United States something less than supreme in the exercise of its own appropriate powers; a doctrine supposed to have been laid at
rest forever by the decisions of this court in McCulloch v.
Maylad, 4 Wheat. 316, 405, et seq.; Cohen8 v. Virginia,
6 Wheat. 264, 381, 387, 414; and many other decisions
in the time of Chief Justice Marshall and since.
But why should the primary election (or nominating
convention) and the final election be treated as things so
separate and apart as not to be both included in 1 4 of

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Pxivqy, BADD .s and CuAm , JJ., concurring in part. 256 U. S.

Article I? The former has no reason for existence, no
function to perform, except as a preparation for the latter;
and the latter has been found by experience in many
States impossible of orderly and successful accomplishment without the former.
Why should this provision of the Constitution-so vital
to the very structure of the Government-be so narrowly
construed? It is said primaries were unknown when the
Constitution was adopted. So were the steam railway
aLl the electric telegraph. But the authority of Congress
to regtilate commerce among the several States was
extended over these instrumentalities, because it was
recognized that the manner of conducting the commerce
was not essential. And this court was prompt to recognize
that a transportation of merchandise, incidentally interrupted for a temporary purpose, or proceeding under
successive bills of lading or means of transport, some
operating wholly intra-state, was none the less interstate
commerce, if such commerce was the practical and essential result of all that was done. The Daniel Ball, 10 Wall.
557, 565; Southern Pacifc Terminal Co. v. Interstate
Commerce Commission, 219 U. S. 498, 526, 527; Ohio Railroad Commission v. Worthington, 225 U. S. 101, 108, 110;
United States v. Union Stock Yard Co., 226 U. S. 286, 304;
Texas & New Orleans R. R. Co. v. Sabine Tram Co., 227
U. S. 111, 124.
Why is it more difficult to recognize the integral relation of the several steps in the process of election?
Congress, by the so-called Enforcement Act of May 31,
1870, c. 114, §20, 16 Stat. 140, 145, and the supplement
approved February 28, 1871, c. 99, §§ 1, 2, 3, 4, 16 Stat.
433, 434, prascribed a variety of regulations relating to
elections of members of the House of Representatives,
including provisions for safeguarding the registration
of voters. These were carried into the Revised Statutes
as §§ 2011, 2016, 2021, 2022, 5522. They were attacked

NEWBERRY v. UNITED STATES.
232.

P rw, BR&Nuxs and CiiixE, JJ., concurring in pIt.

as unconstitutional in Ex parte Siebold, 100 U. S. 371, and
were sustained as an exertion of the authority of Congress
to pass laws for regulating and superintending such elections and for securing their purity-without suggestion
that the registration of voters was not, for practical purposes, a part of the election itself and subject to regulation as such. Yet, in point of causation, identification
of voters is related to the election no more closely than
is the naming of candidates.
It is said that if "the manner of holding elections"
had'been understood in a sense to include the nominating
procedure, ratification of the Constitution by the state
conventions could not have been secured. I do not see
how this can be confidently asserted, in view of the fact
that, by the very hypothesis, the conventions ratified a
specific provision for regulating the only manner of holding elections with which they were familiar-dealt with
the entire subject without limitation. Mr. Justice Story,
in rehearsing the objections, and the reasoning by which
they were met, with citations from the debates and from
the Federalist, refers to no objection that would be more
1cogent, supposing the regulation were extended to nominating procedure, than it would be if the regulation were
confined to the ultimate election. Story Const., §§ 814827. The sufficient answer to all objections was found
in Hamilton's "plain proposition, that every government

ought to wntain in itself the meas of its own preservation."
Federalist, No. 59.
What. was said, in No. 60 of the Federalist, about the
authority of the national government being restrited to
the regulation of the times, the places, and the manner
of elections, was in answer to a criticism that the national
power over the subject "might be employed in such a
manner as to promote the election of some favorite class
of men in exclusion of others," as by discriminating "between the different departments of industry, or between

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
PimTEy, BRA.DEIS and CLARK , JJ., concurring in part.

256 U. S.

the different kinds of property, or between the different
degrees of property"; or by a leaning "in favor of the
landed interest, or the moneyed interest, or the mercantile
interest, or the manufacturing interest"; and it was to
support his contention that there was "no method of
securing to the rich the preference apprehended, but by
prescribing qualifications of property either for those who
may elect, or be elected," which formed no part of the
power to be conferred upon the national government,
that Hamilton proceeded to say that its authority would
be "expressly restricted to the regulation of the times,
the places, and the manner of elections." This authority
would be as much restricted, in the sense there intended,
if "the manner of elections " were construed to include
all the processes qf election from first to last. The restriction arose from the express qualifications prescribed for
members of House. and Senate, and for those who were
to choose them; subject to which all regulation of preliminary, as well as of final, steps in the election necessarily would have to proceed.
In support of a narrow construction of the power of
Congress to regulate "the manner of elections " of its
membership, it is said there is a check against corruption
and kindred evils affecting the nominating procedure,
in the authority of each House to judge of the elections,
returns, and qualifications of its own members; the suggestion being that if-to take a clear case-it appeared
that one chosen to the Senate had secured his election
through bribery and corruption at the nominating primary,
he might be refused admittance. Obviously, this amounts
to a concession that the primary and the definitive election, whose legal separateness is insisted upon, are essentially but parts of a single process; else how could the
conduct of a candidate with reference to the primary
have legitimate bearing upon the question of his election
as Senator? But the suggestion involves a fundamental

NEWBERRY v. UNITED STATES.
232.

Prftm, BRAM=s and CxJwm, JJ., concurring in part.

error of reasoning. The power to judge of the elections
and qualifications of its members, inhering in each House
by virtue of § 5 of Art. I, is an important power, essential
in our system to the proper organization of an elective
body of representatives. But it is a power to judge, to
determine, upon reasonable consideration of pertinent
matters of fact according to established principles and
rules of law; not to pass an arbitrary edict of exclusion.
And I am unable to see how, in right reason, it can be
held that one of the Houses of Congress, in the just exercise of its power, may exclude an elected member for
securing by bribery his nomination at the primary, if the
regulation by law of his conduct at the primary is beyond
the constitutional power of Congress itself. Moreoveri
the power of each House, even if it might rightfully be
applied to exclude a member in the case suggested, is not
an adequate check upon bribery, corruption, and other.
irregularities in the primary elections. It can impose no
penal consequences upon the offender; when affirmatively
exercised it leaves the constituency for the time without
proper representation; it may exclude one improperly
elected, but furnishes no rule for the future by which
the selection of a fit representative may be assured; and
it is exerted at the will of but a single House, not by Congress as a law-making body.
But if I am wrong thus far-if the word "elections"
in Art. I, § 4, of the Constitution must be narrowly confined to the single and definitive step described as an
election at the time that instrument was adoptednevertheless it seems to me too clear for discussion that
primary elections and nominating conventions are so
closely related to the final election, and their proper
regulation so essential to effective regulation of the latter,
so vital to representative government, that power to
regulate them is within the general authority of Congress.
It is matter of common knowledge that the great mass of

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

Pm , BRNEIas and CLARxE, JJ., concurring in part. 256 U. S.
the American electorate is grouped into political parties,
to one or the other of which voters adhere with tenacity,
due to their divergent views on questions of public policy,
their interests, their environment, and various other influences, sentimental and historical. So strong with the great
majority of voters are party associations, so potent the
party slogan, so effective the party organization, that the
likelihood of a candidate succeeding in an election without
a party nomination is practically negligible. As a result,
every voter comes to the polls on the day of the general
election confined in his choice to those few candidates who
have received party nominations, and constrained to consider their eligibility, in point of personal fitness, as affected by their party associations and their obligation to
pursue more or less definite lines of policy, with which the
voter may or may not agree. As a practical matter, the ultimate choice of the mass of voters is predetermined when
the nominations have been made. Hence, the authority
of Congress to regulate the primary elections and nominating conventions arises, of necessity, not from any indefinite or implied grant of power, but from one clearly
expressed in the Constitution itself (Art. I, § 8, cl. 18)"To make all Laws which shall be necessary and proper
for carrying into Execution the foregoing Powers, and all
other Powers vested by this Constitution in the Government of the United States, or in any Department or
Officer thereof." This is the power preservative of all
others, and essential for adding vitality to the framework
of the Government. Among the primary powers to be
carried into effect is the power to legislate through a
Congress consisting of a Senate and House of Representatives chosen by the people-in short, the power to
maintain a law-making body representative in its character. Another is the specific power to regulate the "manner
of holding elections for Senators and Representatives,"
conferred by § 4 of the first Article; and if this does not in

NEWBERRY v. UNITED STATES.
232.

Prrsmr, BRANvu. and CL

,JJ., concurring in part.

literal terms extend to nominating proceedings intimately
related to the election itself, it certainly does not in
terms or by implication exclude federal control of those
proceedings. From a grant to the States of power to
regulate the principal matter, expressly made subject
to revision and alteration by the Congress, it is impossible
to imply a grant to the States of regulatory authority
over accessory matters exclusive of the Congress. And
it is obvious that if clause 18 adds nothing to the content
of the other express powers, when these are literally
interpreted, it has no efficacy whatever and must be
treated as surplusage. It has not, heretofore, been so
regarded. The subject was exhaustively treated by
Chief Justice Marshall, speaking for the court in the
great case already referred to, McCUuoch v. Marylami,
4 Wheat. 316, 411-424, where he pointed out, pp. 419,
420: "1st. The clause is placed among the powers of
Congress, not among the limitations on those powers.
2nd. Its terms purport to enlarge, not to diminish the
powers vested in the government. It purports to be an
additional power, not a restriction on those already
granted." Aecording to the conclusive reasoning adopted
in that case, whatever meaning may be attributed to
§ 4 of Art. I, there is added by clause 18 of § 8 everything
necessary or proper for carrying it into execution-which
means, into practical and complete effect.
The passage of the act undei consideration amounts
to a determination by the law-making body that the
regulation of primary elections and nominating conventions is necessary if the Senate and House of Representatives are to be, in a full and proper sense, representative
of the people. Not only is this true of those cases referred
to in the report of the Senate Committee (Senate Rept.
No. 78, 62d Cong., 1st sems., p. 2) where the parties are so
unequally divided that a nomination by the majority
party is equivalent to election; but it is true in every case

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
PTirEy, BAwNDis

and CLARKE, JJ., concurring in part. 256 U. S.

to the extent that the nominating processes virtually
eliminate from consideration by the electors all eligible
candidates except the few-two or three, perhaps-who
succeed in receiving party nominations. Sinister influences exerted upon the primaries inevitably have their
effect upon the ultimate election-are employed for no
other reason. To safeguard the final elections while
leaving the proceedings for proposing candidates-unregulated, is to postpone regulation until it is comparatively futile. And Congress might well conclude that, if
the nominating procedure were to be left open to fraud,
bribery, and corruption, or subject to the more insidious
but (in the opinion of Congress) nevertheless harmful
influences resulting from an unlimited expenditure of
money in paid propaganda and other purchased campaign
activities, representative government would be endangered.
The question of the authority of Congress to determine
that laws regulating primary elections are "necessary and
proper for carrying into execution" the other powers
specified, admits of but one answer-the same given by
Chief Justice Marshall in the memorable case last cited
(4 Wheat. 421): "We think the sound construction of the
Constitution must allow to the national legislature that
discretion, with respect to the means by which the powers
it confers are to be carried into execution, which will
enable that body to perform the high duties assigned to it,
in the manner most beneficial to the people. Let the end
be legitimate, let it be within the scope of the Constitution,
and all means which are appropriate, which are plainly
adapted to that end, which art, not prohibited, but consist
with the letter and spirit of the Constitution, are constitutional."
This principle has been consistently adhered to and
liberally applied from that day until this. Among a
multitude of illustrative cases that might be cited, some

NEWBERRY v. UNITED STATES.
232.

Prl.Tr, BRmDm and CIz&xz, JJ., concurring in part.

recent notable, but not exceptional, ones may be instanced:
Second EmployeWLiability Cases, 223 U. S. 1, 49, holding
that the power of Congress to regulate commerce among
the States brings within its authority the relations between
common carriers by rail and their employees engaged in
such commerce; Houston, East & West Texas Ry. Co. v.
United States, 234 U. S. 342, 350, 355, holding that the
same power authorizes Congress to regulate rates of
transportation in the internal commerce of a State, to
the extent of preventing injurious discrimination against
the movement of traffic from State to State; Wilson v.
New, 243 U. S. 332, 353, holding that the power over
interstate commerce extends to regulating the wages of
the employees of common carriers engaged therein;
Selective Draft Law Cases, 245 U. S. 366, 377, et seq.,
sustaining an act imposing involuntary military duty
upon the citizen as "necessary and proper for carrying
into execution" the power to declare war, raise and
support armies, and make rules for the government and
regulation of the land and naval forces; United States v.
Ferger, 250 U. S. 199, 2Q5, upholding the authority of
Congress to prohibit and punish the fraudulent making of
spurious interstate bills of lading even in the absence of
any actual or contemplated movement of commerce from
-State to State; Hamilton v. Kentucky Distilleries Co.,
251 U. S. 146, 155, 163, sustaining war time prohibition
of the sale of distilled spirits for beverage purposes as a
measure necessary and proper for carrying into execution
the war power; Jacob Ruppert v. Caffey, 251 U. S. 264,
282, 299-301, sustaining an act prohibiting the manufacture and sale of non-intoxicating beer as "necessary and
proper" to render effective a prohibition against intoxicants; First National Bank v. Union Trust Co., 244 U. S.
416, 419, sustaining an act conferring upon national banks
powers not inherently federal but deemed appropriate to
enable such banks to compete with state banks having

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
PrT1Y, BBANDEIs

and CLARm,

JJ., concurring in part. 256 U. S.

like powers; and Smith v. Kansas City Title & Trust Co.,
255 U. S. 180, sustaining an act establishing federal land
banks and joint stock land banks having broad powers not
national in their character, but deemed by Congress to
be reasonably appropriate for performing certain limited
fiscal functions in aid of the national treasury.
It would be tragic if that provision of the Constitution
which has proved the sure defense of every outpost of
national power should fail to safeguard the very foundation of the citadel.
But its function in preserving our representative
government has long been recognized. In Ex parte Yarbrough, 110 U. S. 651, where the question was as to the
constitutionality of §§ 5508 and 5520, Rev. Stats.the question having arisen upon an indictment for a
conspiracy to intimidate a citizen of African descent in
the exercise of his right to vote for a member of Congressthe court, by Mr. Justice Miller, said (p. 657): "That a
government whose essential character is republican, whose
executive head and legislative body are both elective,
whose most numerous and powerful branch of the legislature is elected by the people directly [now true of both
branches], has no power by appropriate laws to secure
this election from the influence of violence, of corruption,
and of fraud, is a proposition so startling as to arrest
attention and demand the gravest consideration. If
this government is anything more than a mere aggregation
of delegated agents of other States and governments, each
of which is superior to the general government, it must
have the power to protect the elections on which its existence depends from violence and corruption. If it has not
this power it is left helpless before the two great natural
and historical enemies of all republics, open violence and
insidious corruption. The proposition that it has no
such power is supported by the old argument, often heard,
often repeated, and in this court never assented to, that

NEWBERRY v. UNITED STATES.
232. Prr-,

BR&i.'zis and CLAwAK

JJ., concurring in part.

when a question of the power of Congress arises the
advocate of the power must be able to place his finger
on words which expressly grant it. . . . It destroys at
one blow, in construing the Constitution of the United
States, the doctrine universally applied to all instruments of writing, that what is implied is as much a part
of the instrument as what is expressed. This principle,
in its application to the Constitution of the United States,
more than to almost any other writing, is a necessity, by
reason of the inherent inability to put into words all
derivative powers-a difficulty which the instrument
itself recognizes by conferring on Congress the authority
to pass all laws necessary and proper to carry into execution the powers expressly granted and all other powers
vested in the government or any branch of it by the Constitution. Article I, sec. 8, clause 18."
I conclude that it is free from doubt that the Congress
has power under the Constitution to regulate the conduct
of primary elections and nominating conventions held
for-choosing candidates to be voted for in general elections
for Representatives and Senators in Congress, and that
the provisions of the Act of August 19, 1911, 37 Stat.
26-28, in that behalf are valid.
Since the majority of the court hold that the act is
invalid, it would serve no useful purpose to spend time in
discussing those assignments of error that relate to the
conduct of the trial. It may be said, however, that, in
my opinion, the trial court did not err in refusing to direct
a verdict for the defendants for want of evidence of the
alleged conspiracy; nor in instructing the jury that the
prohibition of the statute against the expenditure and
use of money by a candidate beyond the specified limit
is not confined to his own money, but extends to the
expenditure or use of excessive sums of money by him,
from whatever source and from whomsoever derived;
nor in instructing them that in order to warrant a ver-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

Prr-zy, BA-onzi and CL&RnE, JJ., concurring in part. 256 U. .
dict of guilty upon an indictment for conspiracy it was
not necessary that the Government should show that
defendants knew that some statute forbade the acts
they were contemplating, but only to show an agreement
to do acts constituting a violation of the statute; their
knowledge of the law being presumed.
I find prejudicial error, however, in that part of the
charge which assumed to define the extent to which a
candidate must participate in expenditures beyond the
amount limited in order that he may be held to have
violated the prohibition-an instruction vitally important
because it was largely upon avert acts-supposed to have
been done in carrying out the alleged conspiracy that the
Government relied to prove the making of the conspiracy
and its character, and because, unless the purposes of
defendants involved a violation of the Corrupt Practices
Act, they were not guilty of a conspiracy to commit an
"offense against the United States" within the meaning
of § 37, Criminal Code.
The instruction upon this topic, excepted to and assigned for error, was as follows: "The phrase which
constitutes the prohibition against the candidate 'Causing
to be given, contributed, expended or used' excessive
sums of money, is not limited and not confined to expenditures and use of money made directly and personally
by himself. This prohibition extends to the expenditure
and use of excessive sums of money in which the candidate actively participates, or asists, or advises, or directs,
or induces, or procures. The prohibition extends not only
to the expenditure and use of excessive sums of money by
the candidate directly and personally, but to such use
and expenditure through his agency, or procurement, or
assistance. To constitute a violation of this statute
knowledge of the expenditure and use of excessive sums
of money on the part of the candidate is not sufficient;
neither is it sufficient to constitute a violation of this

NEWBERRY v. UNITED STATES.
2S2.

PRmwir, Bwmwjus and CLAnzmz JJ., concurring in part.

statute that the candidate merely acquiesces in such
expenditures and use. But it is sufficient to constitute
a -violation of this statute if the candidate actively participates in doing the things which occasion such expenditures and use of money and so actively participates
with knowledge that the money is being expended and
used. To apply these rules to this case: If you are satisfied from the evidence that the defendant, Truman H.
Newberry, at or about the time that he became a candidate for United States Senator was informed and knew
that his compaign for the nomination and election would
require the expenditure and use of more money than is
permitted by law and with such knowledge became a
candidate, and thereafter by advice, by conduct, by his
acts, by his direction, by his counsel, or by his procurement he actively participated and took part in the expenditure and use of an excessive sum of money, of an
unlawful sum of money, you will be warranted in finding
that he did violate this statute known as the Corrupt
Practices Act."
However this may be regarded when considered in the
abstract, the difficulty with it, when viewed in connection
with the evidence in the case to which the jury was called
upon to apply it, is that it permitted and perhaps encouraged the jury to find the defendants guilty of a conspiracy to violate the Corrupt Practices Act if they merely
contemplated a campaign requiring the expenditure of
money beyond the statutory limit, even though Mr. Newberry, the candidate, had not, and it was not contemplated
that he should have, any part in causing or procuring
such expenditure beyond his mere standing voluntarily
as a candidate and participating in the campaign with
knowledge that moneys contributed and expended by
others without his participation were to be expended.
The language of the Corrupt Practices Act (37 Stat. 28)
.
is "No candidate .
. shall give, contribute, ex-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Pir-=, BsA&Nsm and CLAmE, JJ., concurring in part. 256 U. S.

pend, use, or promise, or cause to be given, contributed,
expended, used, or promised," etc. A reading of the entire act makes it plain that. Congress did not intend to
limit spontaneous contributions of money by others than
a candidate, nor expenditures of such money except as
he should participate therein. Of course, it does not
mean that he must be alone in expending or causing to
be expended the excessive sums of money; if he does it
through an agent or agents, or through associates who
stand in the position of agents, no doubt he is guilty; qui
facit per alium facit per 8e; but unless he is an offender as a
principal there is no offense. Section 332, Criminal Code,
declares: "Whoever directly commits any act constituting
an offense defined in any law of the United States, or aids,
abets, counsels, commands, induces, or procures its commission, is a principal." Clearly this makes anyone who
abets a candidat4 in expending or causing to be expended
excessive sums a principal offender; but it cannot change
the definition of the offense itself as contained in the
Corrupt Practices Act, so as to make a candidate a principal offender unless he directly commits the offense denounced.- Spontaneous expenditures by others being
without the scope of the prohibition, neither he nor anybody else can be held criminally responsible, for merely
abetting such expenditures.
It follows that one's entry upon a candidacy for nomination and election as a Senator with knowledge that such
candidacy will come to naught unless supported by expenditure of money beyond the specified limit, is not
within the inhibition of the act unless it is contemplated
that the candidate shall have a part in procuring the
excessive expenditures beyond the effect of his mere candidacy in evoking spontaneous contributions and expenditures by his supporters; and that his remaining in the
field and participating in the ordinary activities of the
campaign with knowledge that such activities furnish in

NEWBERRY v. UNITED STATES.
232. PrmTy, Bn&xsm aW CLm, JJ., concurring in part.
a general sense the "occasion " for the expenditure is
not to be regarded as a "causing " by the candidate of
such expenditure within the meaning of the statute.
The state of the evidence made it important that, in
connection with that portion of the charge above quoted,
the jury should be cautioned that unless it was a part of
defendants' plan that Mr. Newberry should actually
participate in giving, contributing, expending, using, or
promising, or causing to be given, contributed, expended,
used, or promised moneys in exess of the limited amount
-either himself or through others as his agents---his
mere participation in the activities of the campaign, even
with knowledge that moneys spontaneously contributed
and expended by others, without his agency, procrment, or assistance, were to be or were being expended,
would not of -itself amount to his causing such excessive
expenditure. The effect of the instruction that was given
may well have been to convey to the jury the view that
Mr. Newberry's conduct in becoming and remaining a
candidate with knowledge that spontaneous contributions
and expenditures of money by his supporters would exceed
the statutory limit, and his active participation in the
campaign, were necessarily equivalent to an active participation by him in causing the expenditure and use of
an excessive sum of money, and that a combination among
defendants having for its object Mr. Newberry's participation in a campaign where money in excess of the
prescribed limit was to be expended, even without his
participation in the contribution or expenditure of such
money, amounted to.a conspiracy on their part to commit
an offense against the act.
For enror in the instructions in this particular the judgmnit should be reversed, with directions for a new trial.

Mi. Juencz Bw,.m= and MR.JuscTICE CL
eur in this opinion.

con-

