OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Order.

256 U. S.

Authorities easily might be multipled, but it is unnecessary. Convinced that the ruling now made, if adhered to,
will seriously hamper the courts of the United States in
carring into effect the prohibition of Congress against
combinations in restraint of interstate trade, I respectfully dissent from the opinion and judgment of the court.

I MR. JUsTICE DAY and Ma. JUSTICE CLARKE concu in
this dissent.

STATE OF NORTH DAKOTA v. STATE OF

MINNESOTA.
IN EQurY.
No. 14, OriginaL Argued January 3, 4, 1921.--Orde eaed April 18,
1921.

Order restoring the case to the docket, direcg the taking of supplemental proofs and suggesting the oonsolidaWn of this cause with
another between the States of South Dakota and Minnesota.

Mr. M. H. Boutelle, with whom Mr. Wiliam Langer, Attorney General of the State of North Dakota, Mr. John
Lind, and Mr. I. C. Pinkney were on brief, for complanant.
Mr. John E. Palmer and Mr. Egbert S. Oakley, with
whom Mr. Clifford L. Hi7lon, Attorney General of the
State of Minnesota, and Mr. Monlrev
J. Brown were on
the brief, for defendant.
ORDER. To afford an opportunity for the taking of
supplemental proof deemed by the court necessary to
an adequate consideration and disposition of the caue,

NORTH DAKOTA v. MINNESOTA.
M2.

Order.

it is ordered that the case be restored to the docket to
the end that the parties may proceed promptly to take
the testimony of not exceeding three engineering experts on each side as to the possibility, within the limit.9
of a reasonable expenditure, of doing away with or ameliorating the flood conditions along the Bois de Sioux
River by means other than the injunction prayed for in
the bill herein, the testimony thus to be taken to be particularly directed, among other things, to the possibility
and effect and estimated cost of any of the following
projects: (a) the construction of detaining basins for
drainage water throughout the watershed of the Mustinka River for the purpose of withholding a part of the
spring waters until the flood period is past; (b) the construction of a sluice dam at any point in Lake Traverse
for the purpose of increasing its capacity as a detaining
basin; (c) artificial improvement in the channel of the
Bois de Sioux River in order to improve its capacity as an
outlet for the waters of Lake Traverse in times of flood,
so as to prevent overflow and the inundation of the Bois
de Sioux valley, the works to include a sluice dam at the
foot of Lake Traverse if necessary in order to maintain its level in times of normal flow; (d) lowering the
level of Lake Traverse by means of an outlet to Big Stone
Lake, controlled by a sluice dam, with a view to increasing its capacity as a detaining basin during the flood
period; (e) by diverting some of the drainage water from
the so-called Delta Zone, in order to discharge the same
down the Mustinka River, to the Rabbit River.
It is further ordered that the parties may take the testimony of not exceeding three witnesses on each side
concerning the proper equitable basis for apportioning
the expense of any feasible project among the States
drained by the Lake Traverse-Bois de Sioux watershed, taking into account, among other considerations,
the amount of water discharged by each State into Lake

OCTOBER TERM, 192D.
Syllabus.

258 U. s.

Traverse or the Bois de Sioux River and the benefit conferred by the improvement.
It is further ordered that testimony shall be taken
sufficient to advise the Court as to the flood conditions
which have prevailed, since the filing of the bill herein,
in the area claimed to have been flooded by the action
of the State of Minnesota.
Before the taking of the testimony on the subject above
referred to and the resubmission of the cause the Court
will entertain a motion in this case and the case of The
State of South Dakota v. The State of Minnesota, No. 15,
Original, to consolidate that case with this if counsel are
so advised, to the end that the possibility may be considered of alleviating flood conditions in Lake Traverse
and along the Bois de Sioux River by other means than
the injunction prayed for in that case and to permit
South Dakota to take testimony at the hearing now
ordered in this case.

NICKEL ET AL, AS TRUSTEES, &c., ET AL v.
COLE, AS STATE CONTROLLER OF THE
STATE OF NEVADA.
NICKEL ET AL., AS TRUSTEES, &c., ET AL v.
STATE OF NEVADA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COuT OF THE STATE OF
NEVADA.
No. 268 269.

Argued March 24, 1921.-Decided April 25, 1921.

1. Remamder interests which vested after a state Unuder tax law
was approved but before the time when, as construed by the state

Supreme Court, it became eective, but which n

were

