EX PARTE MATTHEW ADDY S. S. CO.

417

Opinion of the Court.

EX PARTE IN THE MATTER OF MATTHEW ADDY
STEAMSHIP & COMMERCE CORPORATION,
PETITIONER.
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDAMUS.
No. 30, Original.

Argued April 11, 1921.-Decided May 16, 1921.

An order of the District Court remanding a case to the state court
can not be reviewed by this court by mandamus. P. 418. Jud.
Code, ยง 28.
Rule discharged; petition dismissed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. T. K. Schmuck, with whom Mr. Nelson B. Cramer
was on the briefs, for petitioner.
Mr. Edward R. Baird, Jr., and Mr. Gilbert R. Swink for
respondent.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE delivered the opinion of the court.

The Coalmont Moshannon Coal Company, a Pennsylvania corporation, filed its petition in the Circuit Court of
the City of Norfolk, Virginia, against the petitioner,
Matthew Addy Steamship & Commerce Corporation, a
Delaware company, for the recovery of damages for the
alleged breach of a contract, and, under Virginia practice,
garnisheed other defendants. In due time, and in proper
form, the defendant, the petitioner herein, filed its petition for the removal of the case to the District Court of
the United States for the Eastern District of Virginia.
Thereafter the plaintiff in the state court filed a motion to
remand the case, claiming that it was not removable for
the reason that the plaintiff and the principal defendant

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

were non-residents of the Eastern District of Virginia.
The District Court sustained this motion and ordered the
case remanded to the state court.
The petition in this proceeding prays that a writ of
mandamus shall be issued, directing the District Judge for
the Eastern District of Virginia, to vacate the order remanding the case, to redocket it in the District Court, and
that it thereupon be heard and determined according to
law. A rule to show cause was issued and the judge has
filed his return, in which he asserts that the petition should
be dismissed, for the reason that mandamus is not an
appropriate remedy, because not permitted by the provisions of ยง 28 of the Judicial Code, reading as follows:
. Whenever any cause shall be re"Sec. 28 ..
moved from any State court into any district court of the
United States, ajid the district court shall decide that the
cause was improperly removed, and order the same to be
remanded to the State court from whence it came, such
remand shall be immediately carried into execution, and
no appeal or writ of error from the decision of the district
court so remanding such cause shall be allowed."
This language of the Judicial Code first appeared in the
Act of Congress of March 3, 1887, c. 373, 24 Stat. 552, as
reenacted on August 13,1888, c. 866, 25 Stat. 433, and it
has continued unchanged except by the substitution of the
District for the Circuit Court.
In 1890, in the case of In re Pennsylvania Co., 137 U. S.
451, it was held that the power which this court had
before the passage of the acts, supra, to afford a remedy by
mandamus when a cause, removed from a state court was
improperly remanded thereto, was taken away by these
acts. Upon full consideration of the prior legislation, this
court inthe opinion in that case said of the language of the
statute quoted, p. 454:
"In terms, it only'abolishes appeals and writs of error,
it is true, and does not mention writs of mandamus; and

EX PARTE MATTHEW ADDY S. S. CO.
417.

419

Opinion of the Court.

it is unquestionably a general rule, that the abrogation of
one remedy does not affect another. But in this case, we
think it was the intention of Congress to make the judgment of the Circuit Court remanding a cause to the state
court final and conclusive. The general object of the act
is to contract the jurisdiction of the federal courts. The
abrogation of the writ of error and appeal would have had
little effect in putting an end to the question of removal, if
the writ of mandamus could still have been sued out in
this court. It is true that the general supervisory power
of this court over inferior jurisdictions is of great moment
in a public point of view, and should not, upon light
grounds, be deemed to be taken away in any case. Still,
although the writ of mandamus is not mentioned in the
section, yet the use of the words 'such remand shall be
immediately carried into execution,' in addition to the
prohibition of appeal and writ of error, is strongly indicative of an intent to suppress further prolongation of the
controversy by whatever process. We are, therefore, of
opinion that the act has the effect of taking away the
remedy by mandamus as well as that of appeal and writ of
error."
In Fisk v. Henarie, 142 U. S. 459, 468, In re Pennsylvania Co., supra, was cited as authority for the declaration
that "review on writ of error or appeal, or by mandamus
is taken away" by the statutes cited.
In Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v. Fitzgerald, 160 U. S.
556,,581, this court said: "It was subsequenily decided in
the case of In re Pennsylvania Co., 137 U. S.451, 454, that
the power to afford a remedy by mandamus when a cause,
removed from a state court, is improperly remanded, was
taken away by the Acts of March 3, 1887, and August 13,
1888."
In Powers v. Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co., 169 U. S.92, 98,
it was said that an order remanding a case such as we
have here "is not reviewable by this court."

-M0

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

In McLaughlin Brothers v. Hallowell, 228 U. S. 278, it is
held that an order of the United States Circuit Court, remanding a case to a state court, is not reviewable here,
directly or indirectly, citing Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v.
Fitzgerald, 160 U. S. 556.
It is obvious that this statute, and these decisions
interpreting it, rule the case at bar and require that the
petition for mandamus be dismissed.
It is not important to inquire to what extent, if at all,
Ekx parte Wisner, 203 U. S. 449, and In re Moore, 209 U. S.
490, departed from the statute and decisions cited, for the
correct rule with respect to the function and use of the
writ of mandamus has been so often announced in other
later cases that it has become entirely settled. Ex parte
Harding,210 U. S. 363; McLaughlin Brothers v. Hallowell,
228 U. S. 278; Ex parte Roe, 234 U. S. 70; Pacific Live
Stock Co. v. Lewis, 241 U. S. 440, 447; Ex parte Park
Square Automobile Station, 244 U. S. 412; Ex parte Park
& Tilford, 245 U. S. 82.
The conflict of opinion in the lower courts with respect
to the right of removal from a state court of a case in
which the opposing parties are citizens of different States
and neither is a resident of the State in which the case is
commenced, is much to be regretted, but ยง 28 of the
Judicial Code is controlling, and Congress alone has power
to afford relief.
Rule discharged.
Petition dismissed.

