BLOCK v. HIRSH.
134.

Syllabus.

charges entered by the trial court was affirmed by the

highest court of the State.
The case comes here on writ of error, the railroad contending that the statute as construed violates rights
secured to it by the Federal Constitution. The only
federal question which was substantial and properly
raised below was decided adversely to the railroad's
contention in Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v. McGrew Coal
Co., 244 U. S. 191, a case between the same parties and
involving transactions precisely simi r. The objection
now made, that the shipper did not pay freight charges
and, therefore, was not damaged, raised no substantial
federal question but a question of state law which we
have no jurisdiction to review. See Osborne v. Gray, 241
U. S. 16, 20.

Affirmed.
BLOCK, TRADING UNDER THE NAME OF
WHITES, v. HIRSH.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPCALS OF THE DISTRICT o
COLUMBIA.
No. 640. Argued March 3, 1921.-Decided April 18, 1921.
The Act of October 22, 1919, c. 80, Title II, 41 Stat. 297, created a
commission with power, upon notice and hearing, to determine
whether the rent, service and other terms and conditions of the use
and occupancy of apartments, hotels and other rental property
in the District of Columbia, were fair and reasonable and, if found
otherwise, to fix fair and reasonable rents, etc., in lieu; it provided
that a tenant's right of occupancy should, at his option, continue,
notwithstanding the expiration of his term, subject to regulation by
the commission, so long as he paid the rent and performed the conditiomr ficed by his lease or as modified by the commission; reserved,
however, to the owner his right to possession for actual bona fide
occupancy by himself, his wife, children or dependents, upon giving

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

256 U. S.

a 30 days' notice to quit; made the commission's findings conclusive
on matters of fact, but reviewable by the Court of Appeals of the
District on matters of law; limited the regulation thus established
to a period of two years; and declared that its provisions were made
necessary by emergencies growing out of the War, resulting in rental
conditions dangerous to the public health and burdensome to public
officers, employees and accessories, and thereby embarrassing the
Federal Government in the transaction of the public business.In an action in which an owner, ignoring this legislation, and without
serving the required notice, sought to oust a tenant, holding over in
violation of a lease made before the act was passed, and in which the
act was relied on by the tenant, particularly its requirement, of
notice, but was declared unconstitutional by the court below,Held: (1) That the-legislative decljration of facts affording the ground
for the regulation was entitled to great respect and was confirmed
by common knowledge. P. 154.
(2) That the exigency existing in the District clothed the letting of
buildings there with a public interest so great as to justify regulation
by law, i. e., by the police power of Congress,-while such exigency
lasts. P. 155.
(3) That, assuming the owner in this case did not desire the premises
for his own use (as it might have turned out if the entire law had not
been declared void) and treating the property as held for rent, the
effect of t6,: h.t, in allowing the tenant to retain possession at the
rent stipulated in the expired lease or as it might be modified by the
commission, was not, under the circumstances, an unconstitutional
restriction of the owner's dominion and right of contract or a taking
of his property for a use not public. P. 156.
(4) That such regulation was justified as a temporary measure, even
though it might not be as a permanent change. P. 157.
(5) That it did not become otherwise if the "reasonable rent" it secured meant depriving the owner, in part at least, of the power of
profiting by the sudden influx of people to Washington, caused by the
needs of the Government and the War. P. 157.
(6) That the preference given to the tenant in possession was justified
as an incident of the policy of the legislation. P. 157.
(7) That, the end being legitimate and the means reasonably related to
it, the wisdom of the means was not for the courts to pass upon. P. 158.
(8) That the court was not prepared to say in this crse that the law,
being valid in its principal aspects, was invalid in so far as it might
operate to deprive landlords and tenants of trial by jury on the right
to possession. P. 158.
50 App. D. C. 56, 73; 267 Fed. Rep. 614. 631, reversed.

BLOCK r. HIESH.

135.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Emnon to review a judgment of the court below holding
unconstitutional the act regulating rents, etc., in the District of Columbia, in proceedings by a landlord to oust a
tenant holding over. The facts are stated in the opinion,

~,153.

Mr. Jese C. Adkins, with whom Mr. Julius I. Peyser,
Mr. George E. Edelin and Mr. Theodore D. Peyser were on
the brief, for plaintiff in error:
I. The requirement of thirty days' notice is constitutional It but restores the law as it existed in the District
prior to 1864 and is a mere change in the remedy. Antoni v. Greenhow, 107 U. S. 769.
Defendant in error cannot question the constitutionaity of the regulatory provisions of the act. He is not
within the class affected by them because he failed to
give the required notice. Turpin v. Lemon, 187 U. S. 51;
Colims v. Texas, 223 U. S. 288. Giving such a notice
would not estop him to attack the statute. He invoked
relief under the District Code, not the Rents Act. -If the
tenant questioned his good faith, the tenant would proceed before the Rent Commission. Mere defense to that
complaint would not estop an attack on the constitutionality of the statute.
11. The regulatory provisions of the Rents Act are
constitutional under the war power. That power includes the remedying of evils which have arisen from war.
Stewart v. Kaln, 11 Wall. 493, 507. War existed when
the act was approved. Ruppert v. Caffey, 251 U. S. 264.
The shortage of houses in the District ensued from the
rise and progress of the war. Section 122 of the act so
declares, and this declaration is supported by the facts.
The Drait Law, approprmitng the liberty and lives of
citizens, was sustained in Selective Draft Law Cases, 245
U. S. 366. This man-power was made effective by a mass
of iegislation, some taking rrivate property and some

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

256 U. S.

regulating its use. The railroads were taken. The Lever
Act of August 10, 1917, provided for the control of necessities of life. Under it fuel and articles of food were regulated in the minutest degree. Prices were fixed under
this statute as well as under other legislation.
III. During the emergency caused by the war Congress
in the exercise of its plenary police power in the District
of Columbia may regulate rents of real property devoted
to rental purposes.
The court below held that the owner of a reversion in
real property which was under rental for a fixed term lad
the absolute right to oust the tenant instantly at the expiration of the term and to immediately regain possession,
and that no economic or other condition could justify
modification of these rights. But an owner never had an
absolute right to use his property as he pleased. His rights
over real property are not absolute. Unimproved real
estate is regulated. The owner may be compelled to abate
a nuisance: to erect fences, Atlantic Coad Line R. R. Co.
v. Goddsboro, 232-U. S. 548, 561; to abstain from building
without a permit. Every regulation deemed essential for
health and safety has been sustained. Sometimes the use
of the land is impeded, sometimes part of the land is taken,
sometimes the value of the property is greatly lessened.
Control over personal property is not absolute. Interest
and the price of bread have always been regulated. Personal property devoted to unlawful uses may be confiscated. Goldsmith-GrantCo. v. United States, 254 U. S. 505.
An owner's right to transfer property is limited. The
wife has always been protected. Certain formalities always attended the transfer of property. Familiar instances are statutes requiring conditional sales to be in
writing and recorded; bulk sales acts, Lemeux v. Young,
211 U. S. 489; blue-sky laws, Hal v. Geiger-Jones Co.,
242 U. S. 539. In Nebraska a mortgagor of personal property cannot sell without the written consent of the mort-

BLOCK v. HERSH.
13

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

gagee. State v. Heldenbrand,62 Nebraska, 136. The consent of the selling agent of a pool must be obtained before
tobacco may be bought from the grower who pooled it.
Commonweath v. Hodges, 137 Kentucky, 233. Grain
sales must be made on the basis of actual weight. House
v. Mayes, 227 Missouri, 641. Lard must be in containers

of specified weight Armour & Co. v. North Dakota, 240
U. S. 510.
If during the emergency the business of renting real
property in the District of Columnbia holds such a peculiar
relation to the public interest as to justify it, there will be
superinduced upon that business the right of public regulation. This is the underlying principle- German Aliance
Insurne Co. v. Lewis, 233 U. S. 389; Munn v. Illi s,
94 U. S. 113; Budd v. New York, 143 U. S. 517; Bras v.
Stoew, 153 U. S. 391,410.
State legislatures have applied it to economic conditions
affecting their own people and industries. Nash v. Page,
80 Kentucky, 547; Commonwealth v. Hodges, 137 Kentucky, 244; Douglas Park Jockey Club v. Talbott, 173
Kentucky, 685; Davis v. Staie, 68 Alabama, 63; State v.
Mudlina, 87 S. Car. 510. Indiana regulates the taking of
natural gas. Ohio Oil Co. v. Indiana, 177 U. S. 190.
Wyoming forbids the consumption of natural gas without
the heat therein contained being utilized. Walls v. Midland Carbon Co., 254 L. S. 300. New York has endeavored
to protect its mineral springs. Lindsey v. Natural
Carbomic Gas Co., 220 U. S. 61. Idaho forbids the grazing
of sheep on public lands within two miles of another's
lands. Bacon v. Walker, 204 U. S. 311. In Florida and
Wa ington a special license tax is imposed on merchants
using trading stamps. Rat v. Van Deman & Lewis Co.,
240 U. S. 342; Tanner v. Li k, 240 U. S. 369. In many
States the common-law rules of liability are abolished and
the rights and-duties of employer and employee are regulated. In Maine municipalities are authorized to estab-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

256 U. S.

lish yards for the sale of fuel at cost. Jone8 v. Portland,
245 U. S. 217. North Dakota has authorized the lending
of money to citizens for the construction of homes. Green
v. Frazier. 253 U. S. 233. In other States an ulterior
public advantage has justified a comparatively insignificant tadng of private property for what in its immediate
purpose is private use. Clark v. Nash, 198 U. S. 361;
Stricley v. Highland Boy Gold Mining Co., 200 U. S.
527; Offield v. N. Y., N. H. & H. R. R. Co., 203 U. S. 372;
Noble State Bank v. Haskell, 219 U. S. 104; Perley v.

North Carolina,249 U. S. 510. Indiana has created a coal
commission with power to regulate prices. American Coal
Mining Co. v. Special Coal & Food Commission, 2f§8

Fed. Rep. 563. In Oklahoma laundry prices are regulated. Oklahoma OperatingCo. v. Love, 252 U. S. 331.
The business of renting property in the District has
risen to such public importance that it may be regulated.
The legislative declaration in Section 122 of the act is
controlling if a state of facts could exist which would
justify it. Munn v. Illinois, supra.

A state of facts does exist justifying the legislation. The
virtual monopoly of rental property causes great economic
disparity between house-owners and their tenants; there
is serious danger of oppression and extortion; the remedy of competition cannot be made effective for years;
lack of regulation will result in serious injury to the health,
safety, morals, order and welfare of the community.
The legislative determination is supported by a mas of

public opinion. The shortage of housing is world-wide. New
South Wales created a fair rents court. England, France,
Spain, Germany, WLconsin, New York, Maine, Massachu-

setts and New Jersey have sought relief through statutes.
Mr. Win. G. Johnson, with whom Mr. Myer Cohen and
Mr. Richard D. Daniels were on the brief, for defendant
in error:

BLOCK v. HIRSH.
135.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

The legislation is plainly unconstitutional and void,
because its effect is to deprive the defendant in error of
his property without due process of law, to take his property for private use and bestow it upon another, without
compensation, and, in-an action at law, in which the
value in controversy exceeds twenty dollars, to deny to
him, and to-deprive him of, the right of trial by jury.
It is indisputable that., at the time of making the lease
to Block and of his entry into possession thereundex,
the owners had a vested estate, a reversion in fee, to come
into possesson, absolutely, on January 1, 1920; Block
was a tenant in possession whose right of possession absolutely terminated on December 31, 1919, and by his covenant in the lease he had specifically agreed to surrender
possession on that date. Also, that there existed legal
remedies for enforcing this right of possession,' should
the tenant violate the agreement in his lease, and fail
to surrender possession at the expiration of the term

demised.
The owners also had an unrestricted right of alienation
of the property, in the open market, to any purchaser
whomsoever, and such alienation would confer upon their
alienee all their rights of possession, subject to no lien,
claim or charge of any kind, in behalf of the tenant, beyond
the rights conferred by the lease itself.
They and their grantee would also have the right,
either during or at the end of the term, to let the property
anew, by successive lease, to begin at the expiration of
the term demised, to another tenant, at the same or a
higher or lower rent, or upon any other consideration,
and the lessors and their grantee might, if they so preferred, occupy the property themselves or allow it to remain vacant; all without let or hindrance from the tenant.
The lease to Block, as appears on its face, preserved
to the lessors and their grantee all of these rights to their
utmost extent,

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

256 U. S.

But he now claims that these rights of the lessors, and
of their grantee, under the lease by which he obtained
that possession, have all been swept away; not by any contract or agreement.of the parties, but by subsequent legislation of Congress. And further, that by that legislation there has been conferred upon him the right and
power, at his option, to retain possession of said property,
in iolation of his covenant in the lease, and after the
expiration of the term demised.
The requirement for notice to the tenant embodied in
the act is neither an applicable nor valid provision of
law. The act was not operative when Hirsh's right of
possession and right of action accrued. Any notice under
the act would have extended Block's right of possession
beyond the term of the lease. The notice required was a
direct limitation upon Hirsh's right of possession under
the lease, and required Hirsh to surrender in advance his
constitutional right to a trial by jury.
Giving the notice would have precluded Hirsh from
questioning the constitutionality of the statute. The
statute undertook to take from Hirsh his right of possession of his property and transfer it to Block to hold at
Block's option. The same statute gave Hirsh a means of
escape from this spoliation for Block's benefit in two
cases; if he wished the property for his own occupancy,
or wished to tear down the building and inunediately rebuild for rental purposes. But the escape from this spoliation was conditioned, in the same section of the same act.
The conditions were, first, that he give Block a thirty
days' notice, containing a full and correct statement of
the facts and circumstances upon which it was based;
second, that Block might dispute that notice as to its
accuracy, sufficiency, good faith and service and, third,
that the commission should finally determine that dispute, without a jury trial and its decision on the facts
should be final, and binding upon every court.

BLOCK v. HIRSH.
135.

Azgtment for Defendant in Error.

Hirsh had another mode of escaping this spoliation, in
Block's behalf, and that was by appealing to the courts
for protection under the Constitution.
He had perfect freedom to pursue either course but
could not pursue both. If he elected to avail himself of
the mode of escape given by the statute and gave the
notice, he was then bound by his choice and could not
question the constitutionality of the statute. Such is
the settled law of this court, Daniels v. Tearney, 102
U. S. 415, 421; Rldric Co. v. Dow, 166 U. S.489, 490;
Wight v. Davidson, 181 U. S. 371, 377; Grand Rapids &
Indiana Ry. Co. v. Osborn, 193 U. S. 17, 29; Shepard v.
Boron, 194 U. 8. 553, 567.
The legislation of Congress relied upon by plaintiff
in error is unconstitutional and void. Language and
purpose are alike plain. It enacts that notwithstanding
the fact that Blocks lease expires, absolutely, on the 31st
of December, 1919, and that the unconditional right toimmediate pomsson, on that day, accrued to the lessors
and to their assignee, neerthels, Block, if he so please,
may retain Iosesiim for two years longer and the rightful owner shall not maintain any proceeding to recover
Another provision,-that "every purchaser shall take
conveyance of any rental property, hotel, or apartment
subject to the rights of tenants as provided in this title,"subjects the fee simple owner's title to a lien in favor of
the tenant and cuts down the owner's power of alienation
by requiring that all purchasers shall take subject to that
lien. This restaint upon the power of alienation is heightened by the fact that the lien is for no definite time, but

at the caprice of the tenant.
Without any mew contract between the parties, without
the owner's consent, without any act done by either,
without any consideration or compensation to the fee
simple owner,, and without a hearing or notice of any

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

256 U. S.

kind, but. solely by legislative denlaration, this reversion
of the owner is taken from him and given to the tenant
and the owner's power of sale is made subject to this
lien for an extension of lease at the will of the tenant.
By another provision the tenant may, however, with
the consent of the commission, assign or sublet this reversion of the owner, at a profit to the tenant.
Nor is this all. By the terms of the "Saulsbury Resolution" (40 Stat. 593) the rent to be paid for this statutory appropriation of the owner's reversion to the use
of the tenant is fixed by the legislature at the rate of rent
fixed by the lease, no matter how much the rental value
may have increased.
A yet further invasion of the owner's rights is provided
by § 106 of the act. Under that provision, a tenant may
call upon the commission to reduce the rent, and the
commission may make that reduction and under § 107
require the owner to refund rent paid under the lease.
It is earnestly insisted that these invasions of private
property rights are all unconstitutional and void, because they take private property for private use, they
take private property without compensation and they deprive the owner of his property without due process of
law. Missouri Pacifw Ry. Co. v. Nebraska, 164 U. S.
403, 412, 413, 417; Calder v. Bull, 3 Dali. 386, 388, 389;
Wilkinson v. Ldand, 2 Pet. 627, 657, 658; Vonongahla
Natigation Co. v. United S"te, 148 U. S. 312, 324, 325;
Ochoa v. Hernandez, 230 U. S. 139, 161; Sinking-Fund
Cases, 99 U. S. 700, 718, 719.
There is no power in the United States. through Congress or otherwise, to take private property for private
use. The right to take it at all, is not expressly conferred
by the Constitution, but, as held in Kohl v. United States,
91 U. S. 367, 374, 375, the right of eminent domain, to
which all lawful taking is referred, is a necessary attribute
of sovereignty, but limited to it for sovereign purposes.

BLOCK v.HIRSH.
135.

Argument for Defendant in Errw.

Not only does this legislation attempt to take from the
landlord owner his reversion and bestow it upon the
tenant, to hold at the tenant's will, but it also denies
all right of judicial redress. It does not change or substitute remedies, but denies them in toto. By the express
terms of the act, the tenant's "right" to "use or occupancy" shall "continue" "and such tenant shall not be
evicted or dispossessed so long as he pays the rent."

But the previously existing right of action in the
landlord to recover his property against wrongful detention is also "property" of which he may not be deprived
without due process of law. Ptichardv. Norton, 106 U. &
124, 132; Munn v. Mioims, 94U. 8- 113, 134.
It is also the constitutional right of the citizen to
decide for himself with whom he will contract and whom
he will accept or continue as tenant, and he may not

lawfully be compelled to accept one as tenant of whom he
does not approve. Adair v. United &Stak, 208 U. 8
161, 173; Coppage v. Kan=s,236 U. S. 1.
The existence of a state of war gives no validity to the
statute. War carries many and grievous afflictions, but
among them is not the abrogation, temporary or permanmt, of the constitutional limitations upon the power
of Congress. Not one of the powers conferred, or restrictions imposed, upon Congress, by the Constitution, is
accompanied with or qualified by any exception in the
case of the existence of a state of war, unless it be the
Third Amendment, which provides that--"No soldier
shall, in time of peace be quartered in any house, without
the consent of the owner, nor in time of war but in a
manner to be prescribed by law." In this Amendment
there is a plainly implied power in Congress to legislate as
to the manner of quartering soldiers in a private house in

time of war, but with this exception there is no restriction
upon the power of Congress not equally applicable in both
peace and war.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

256 U. S.

And it is not going too far to say that there is also a
plain implication in this Amendment that no civilian
shall be quartered in any house in time of either peace or
war, without the consent of the owner. Hamilton v.
Kentucky Distidleries Co., 251 U. S. 146, 156; Mitchel v.
Harmony, 13 How. 115, 134, 135.
There is nothing in the record to suggest that Block's
retention of possession against the right of the owner
could in any way aid or influence the prosecution of the
war.
The legislative declaration that this property is affected
with a public interest is, itself, invalid.
The facts, undisputed on the record, show that neither
Hlrsh nor his grantors did any act admitting or inviting
the public to the possession or use of this property-on
the contrary they did all that it was legally possible for
them to do to exclude the public. The record also shows
that the public has acquiesced in that exclusion, for it left
Block in undisturbed possession throughout the term
demised.
In Munn v. //inois, supra, this court did not base its
decision that the grain elevators were clothed with a
public interest on any statutory declaration to that effect,
but upon the facts admitted by the plaintiff in error.
It then became necessary to determine whether, in the
exercise of the police power to regulate the use of such
property, the legislature had exceeded its powers. It was
with reference to the facts calling for the exercise of the
particular kind of regulation which the statute provided
that the court uses the language quoted in the diss-zenting
opinion of the court below, and not upon the question of
fact whether the property was or was not affected with a
public interest. Producers TransportationCo. v. Railroad
Commission, 251 U. S. 228, 230.
Even if the mere legislative declaration that private
property "is affected with a public interest" could be

BLOCK v. HLRSH.
135.

Argument for the United States.

evidence of that fact, it could not be conclusive; otherwise
the use of those six words in a statute could destroy all
private ownership in the whole country. The record in
this case conclusively shows that Hirsh's property was not
affected with a public interest; that it has not been subjected to a public use but that it has been, ever since the
execution of the lease, private property in the strictest
sense. Weems Steamboat Co. v. People's Steamboat Co.,
214 U. S. 345, 356; Terminal Tazicab Co. v. District of
Columbia, 241 U. S. 252, 256.
It v-a3 contended in the court below that the uni-

versally admitted right of the legislature to regulate
the rate of interest on loans of money was a recognition of
the power to regulate purely private contracts between
individuals. It may be said in this connection that
interest statutes do not assume to compel the lending of
money to particular persons nor the continuation of loans
after they are due, on the condition that the interest be
paid, as this legislation attempts to continue leases after
their expiration.
But interest is a creature of statute and may be regulated or abolished by that power which gave it legal
existence. Lord Bacon, Essay on Usury; Lloyd v. Scott,
4 Pet. 205, 224. There is, therefore, no analogy between
the case of a statute fixing rates of interest and one
transferring the landlord's reversion to his tenant, without the consent of the landlord.
Mr. Henry H. Glassie, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom The Solicitor General was on the
brief, for the United States as amicus curim, by special
leave of court:
I. A declaration by Congress that emergencies growing
out of the war caused apartments, hotels, and other rental
property at the seat of government to be affected with a
public interest is conclusive, unless the inference be

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for the United States.

256 U. S

such as no rational mind could draw. Prce v. Illinois, 2.38
U. S. 446, 451; Rast v. Van Deman & Lewis Co., 240 U. S.
342, 365.
II. The conclusion that, under the facts found, the
relation between the owners and the users of such property
could not be safely left to the unregulated action of
individual economic interest, so far from being irrational,
was a sound legislative judgment reached after an elaborate investigation into prices, rents and related subjects. Sen. Rep. 150, 66th Cong., 1st sess.; Sen. Rep. 327,
66th Cong., 2d sers.; House Rep. 349, 66th Cong., 2d sess.;
House Rep. 269, 62d Cong., 2d sers. It is shared by other
responsible legislatures forced to deal with similar conditions in areas of congested population. N. Y. Laws 1920,
c. 136-145; c. 942-953; Wisconsin Laws Special Session
1920, c. 16; New Jersey Laws 1920, c. 193, c. 357; Massachusetts Acts of 1920, c. 555.
HI. The whole argument against the statute proceeds
upon an extreme individualistic conception of real property which, in effect, denies the existence of any police
power in respect thereof. It is said that when a tenant's
estate ceases by expiration of the term, the landlord's right
to repossess the property is in its nature absolute, that he
has an immediate right to let the property anew to
another tenant at a higher rent, or not to lease it, and that
his vendee has the same unqualified right. This is but a
statement of the existing incidents of a reversion after a
term of years in the absence of regulation. To say that
an owner of a building not used by himself has, under
whatsoever economic and social stress, an indestructible
right to grant such use only upon such terms, for such
price, during such time, and to such person as he may
choose, immune from the possibility of any regulating
control whatever, is but to assert., contrary to fundamental conceptions of the common law, that private
ownership in land is absolute. This conception would

BLOCK v. HIRSH.
13&

Axgumet for the United States.

exclude the very things to which the term "affected with
a public interest" was first applied, and cannot be reconciled with the long list of acts collected inHead v. Amoskeag Maiwadwing Co., 113 U. S. 9, 17-18. It is immaterial whether such statutes are deemed to rest on the
right of eminent domain (113 U. S. 19), or upon the power
to regulate use even to the extent of coercing it upon fair
compensation where the public interest so require. 113
U. S. 24-26; M dock v. Stickney, 8 Cush. 113, 116. They
all embody the principle of the subordination of owner-

ship to utilization, where use by others is essential to the
maintenance of general living conditions or increases the
productive power or economic welfare of any considerable
part of the population. Thus it has come to be established
that real property may, under special circumstances of
grave general concern, become so far affected with a public
interest that uses which, in their immediate purpose, are
private must be regarded as public. Clark v. Nash, 198
U. & 361; Sb*Aiy v. Highland Boy Gold Mining Co., 200
U. S. 527. These e cases of expropriation. But a like
power to regulate must equally exist where the use of
certain claes of property is so bound up with the characteristic life of the community and the operations of
government that both will suffer utter diorganization
unless fair and stable conditions are maintained in respect
of the terms of such use.
IV. The public interest may be protected by regulating,
on the basis of a reasonable charge, the compensation or
rental to be paid for use of property by persons let into
possession by the owners. Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113;
Budd v. New York, 143 U. S. 517; Noble State Bank v.
Haskde, 219 U. S. 104; German Alliance Insurance Co. v.
Lewis, 233 U. S. 389.
The owne has devoted his property to a public use in
tat he has engaged in a business relation which the
legislature has reasonably held to need regulation. It may

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for the United States.

256 U. S.

therefore be regulated after it has been entered into.
Louis zle & Nashrtle R. R. Co. v. Mottley, 219 U. S. 467,
482, 485. Nor is "public use" limited to a community use
enjoyed by the public generally or one which the public
has a right to demand. German Alliance Insurance Co. v.
Lewis, supra.
The business of renting out apartments and houses
under the existing circumstances discloses the same
fundamental elements found in other cases where a public
interest has been held to warrant the regulation of a business not enjoying any statutory privilege. There is in
such cases a state of virtual monopoly, or, conversely
stated, an absence of effective competition. The consuming public stands in a position of economic helplessness.
This may result from conditions on the side of supply or on
the side of demand, from limitations natural in the
physical sense, Spring Valley Water Works v. S&hottler, 110
U. S. 347; Van Dyke v. Geary, 244 U. S. 39, 47; or, natural
only in the sense that, under the circumstances of a given
community, facilities available for the particular purpose
are not susceptible of multiplication or enlargement.
Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113; Budd v. New York, 143
U. S. 517, 531,535; Brass v. Stoeser, 153 U. S. 391, 402.
The public interest arising from the existence of an
instant need naturally receives a vast extension in all
periods of abnormal economic stress. Wilson v. New, 243
U. S. 332, 348. But to concede that rent regulation might
exist as a war power is to concede that it exists under certain conditions of social fact, whether arising from that
emergency or some other.
The recognition of such conditions of economic dependence lies at the root of practically all the social legislation of our time. Knoxville Iron Co. v. Harbison, 183
U. S. 13, 20; Muller v. Oregon, 208 U. S. 412, 422; Erie
R. R. Co. v. New York, 233 U. S. 671, 704; German
Alliance Lnsurance Co. v. Lewis, 233 U. S. 389,417.

BLOCK v. HIRSH.
135.

Argument for the United States.

V. The housing situation in a city like New York or
Washington presents all the features of a practical monopoly; the normal competitive system has completely
broken down.
VI. The conditions are intensified by the special
relations in which the District of Columbia stands to the
Federal Government.
VII. Temporary continuance of occupancy is an
appropriate means of making rent regulation effective.
(a) With respect to leases subsequent to the act, such
authority seems clear since the contract clause has no
application, Munday v. Wisconsin Trust Co., 252 U. S.
499, 503; and Congress, having power to mould the laudlord and tenant relation, may make it a statutory term in
every tenancy that a tenant may continue to occupy the
property for a limited time, upon payment of the stipulated rent or a fair rent fixed by authority. Pollock & M.,
HisL Eng. L, voL I, p. 338; voL II, 106, 109; Holdsworth, Mt. Eng. L., vol. M, pp. 107, 180; Mountain
Timber Co. v. Washington, 243 U. S. 219, 238; New York
CentralR R. Co. v. White, 243 U. S. 188,196,200. Cf. The
Maryland Acts for the redemption of ground rents. Md.
Code, art. 53, 1§ 24-25; Md. Acts 1884, c. 485; 1888, c. 395;
1900, c. 207; Stewart v. Gorter, 70 Maryland, 242; Swan
v. Kemp, 97 Maryland, 686. The only limitation is that
the essntial property itself shall not be taken away, and
that is not done when the owner throughout the emergency period gets the fair and reasonable value of the use.
(b) In respect of leases made before but expiring after
the act, the power to extend the occupancy is a reasonable

eomllary of the power to regulate the rental.

United

States v. Ferger, 250 U. S. 199, 203, 205; Jacobson v.
Ma
197 U. S. 11; Mler v. Wason, 236 U. S.
373,380.
(c) The owner's right to use the property is secured
by the statute. The occupancy provision, therefore,

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for the United States.

256 U. S.

operates only to limit his future liberty to contract; that
is, his liberty "to choose his own tenant." The impairment of any express covenant to surrender is merely inci-

dental. What the statute regulates is the present rent for
occupation subsequent to the act. If the landlord does
not wish that there should be any subsequent occupation he ha his old remedies. But if he wishes not to use
but to rent, then the whole matter resolves itself into a
question of the fair incidents of the regulation of the
rent. Manigault v. Springs, 199 U. S. 473, 480; Mutual
Loan Co. v. Martell, 222 U. S. 225, 231; Knoxville
Iron Co. v. Harbison, 183 U. S. 13; Keokee Coke Co. v.
Taylor, 234 U. S. 224; Rast v. Van Deman & Lewis Co.,
240 U. S. 342; Thornton v. Duffy, 254 U. S. 361.
(d) The landlord's ordinary power to contract is not
interfered with in favor of persons not already in privity
with him, but in respect of a class recognized as having a
natural equity beyond the technical termination of the
term. This interest has been often recognized by courts
as well as legislatures, especially when supported by local
usage or when special economic circumstances give it
peculiar significance. Boyle v. Lysaght, 1 Vernon & Scriyen (Ir.) Rep. 135, 142, 144; Banks v. Haskie, 45 Maryland, 207, 220. Cf. Murray v. Bateman, Ridgway's
Cas. Parl. 187, 19 & 20 Geo. m, c. 30. Landlord and
Tenant (Ireland) Act 1870 (33 & 34 Vict. c. 46); Land
Law (Ireland) Act 1881 (44 & 45 Vict. c. 49); Small Landholders (Scotland) Act 1911 (1 & 2 Geo. V., c. 49). See
also 5 & 6 Geo. V. c. 97; 9 Geo. V, c. 7; 9 & 10 Geo. V. c.
90; 10 & 11 Geo. V. c. 17; Nevile v. Hardy, 37 Times Law
Rep. 129.
(e) The landlord is not prevented from going out of
the renting business or required to continue it upon the
terms fixed by the act. He may stop renting. But, in
an emergency such as that declared by Congress, the
right to regulate rents effectively can not be thwarted

BLOCK v. HIRSH.
135.

Opinion of the Court.

upon a ground so abstract and socially injurious as a
theoretical right to evict tenants for the purpose of destroying the building or keeping it vacant.
VIII. The statute makes due provision for the recovery
of possession upon evidence of withdrawal from the rental
claClearly the legislature may require a notice of the
fact of withdrawal, may prescribe a reasonable time for
the purpose, and may further require the notice to be
submitted in the first place for the determination of the
commission, because, if valid, it marks the end of their
authority. That the commission has no jury is of no conThere is no jury in the court in which the
sequence.
issue of pssession is first tried. That the parties have one
on appeal is sufficient. Capikd Tradion Co. v. Hof, 174
U. S. 145.
MnL Jusmz HoLmes delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a proceeding brought by the defendant in error,
Hlrah, to recover possession of the cellar and first floor
of a building on F Street in Washington which the plaintiff in error, Block, holds over after the expiration of a
lease to him. Hush bought the building while the lease
was running, and on December 15, 1919, notified Block
that he should require possession on December 31, when
the lease expired. Block declined to surrender the premise, relying upon the Act of October 22, 1919, c. 80, Title
II-"District of Columbia Rents"; especially § 109, 41
Stat. 297, 298, 301. That is also the ground of his defence in this Court, and the question is whether the statute isconstitutional, or, as held by the Court of Appeals,
an attempt to authorize the taking of property not for
public use and without due process of law, and for this
and other reasons void.
By 1 109 of the act the right of a tenant to occupy any
hotel, apartment, or "rental property," i.e., any building

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

or part thereof, other than hotel or apartment, (§ 101),
is to continue notwithstanding the expiration of his term,
at the option of the tenant, subject to regulation by the
Commission appointed by the act, so long as he pays the
rent and performs the conditions as fixed by the lease or
as modified by the Commission. It is provided in the
same section that the owner shall have the right to possession "for actual and bona fide occupancy by himself,
or his wife, children, or dependents .
. upon giving
thirty days' notice in writing." According to his affidavit Hfiish wanted the premises for his own use, but he did
not see fit to give the thirty days' notice because he denied
the validity of the act. The statute embodies a scheme
or code which it is needless to set forth, but it should be
stated that it erds with the declaration in § 122 that the
provisions of Title II are made necessary by emergencies
growing out of the war, resulting in rental conditions in
the District dangerous to the public health and burdensome to public officers, employees and accessories, and
thereby embarrassing the Federal Government in the
transaction of the public busines. As emergency legislation the Title is to end in two years unless sooner re-

pealedL
No doubt it is true that a legislative declaration of
facts that are material only as the ground for enacting a
rule of law, for instance, that a certain use is a public one,
may not be held conclusive by the Courts. Shoemaker v.
United States, 147 U. S. 282, 298. Hairston v. Dantile
& Western Ry.Co., 208 U. S. 598,606. Prentis v. Atlantic
Coast Line Co., 211 U. S. 210, 227. Producers Transportation Co. v. Railroad Commission, 251 U. S. 228, 230.
But a declaration by a legislature concerning public conditions that by necessity and duty it must know, is entitled at least to great respect. In this instance Congress
stated a publicly notorious and almost world-wide fact.
That the emergency declared by the statute did exist

BLOCK v. HIRSH.
135.

Opinion of the Court.

must be assumed, and the question is whether Congress
was incompetent to meet it in the way in which it has been
met by most of the civilized countries of the world.
The general proposition to be maintained is that circumnstances have clothed the letting of buildings in the
District of Columbia with a public interest so great as
to justify regulation by law. Plainly circumstances may
so change in time or so differ in space as to clothe with
such an interest what at other times or in other places
would be a matter of purely private concern. It is enough
to refer to the decisions as to insurance, in German Alliace Insurance Co. v. Lewis, 233 U. S. 389; irrigation, in
Clark v. Nash, 198 U. S. 361; and mining, in Strickley v.
Highlrm Boy Gold Minin Co., 200 U. S. 527. They
sufficiently illustrate what hardly would be denied.
They illustrate also that the use by the public generally
of each specific thing affected cannot be made the test
of public interest, M. Vernon-Woodberry Cotton Duck
Co. v. Albama Interstate Power Co., 240 U. S. 30, 32, and
that the public interest may extend to the use of land.
They dispel the notion that what in its immediate aspect
may be only a private transaction may not be raised by
its clas or character to a public affair. See also Noble
State Bank v. Haskel, 219 U. S. 104, 110, 111.
The fact that tangible property is also visible tends to
give a rigidity to our conception of our rights in it that
we do not attach to others less concretely clothed. But
the notion that the former are exempt from the legisla-

tive modification required from time to time in civ"lized
life is contradicted not only by the doctrine of eminent
domain, under which what is taken is paid for, but by
that of the police power in its proper sense, under which
property rights may be cut down, and to that extent
taken, without pay. Under the police power the right
to erect buildings in a certain quarter of a city may be
limited to from eighty to one hundred feet. Welch v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

Swasey, 214 U. S. 91. Safe pillars may be required in
coal mines. Plyrnouth Coal Co. v. Pennsylhunia, 232 U.
S. 531. Billboards in cities may be regulated. St. Louis
Poster Adrtising Co. v. St. Louis, 249 U. S. 269. Watersheds in the country may be kept clear. Perey v. North
Carolina, 249 U. S. 510. These cases are enough to establish that a public exigency will justify the legislature
in restricting property rights in land to a certain extent
without compensation. But if to answer one need the
legislature may limit height to answer another it may
limit rent. We do not perceive any reason for denying
the justification held good in the foregoing cases to a law
limiting the property rights now in question if the public
exigency requires that. The reasons are of a different
nature but they certainly are not less pressing. Congress has stated the unquestionable embarrassment of
Government and danger to the public health in the existing condition of things. The space in Washington is
necessarily monopolized in comparatively few hands,
and letting portions of it is as much a business as any
other. Housing is a necessary of life. All the elements
of a public interest justifying some degree of public control are present. The only matter that seems to us open
to debate is whether the statute goes too far. For just as
there comes a point at which the police power ceases and
leaves only that of eminent domain, it may be conceded
that regulations of the present sort pressed to a certain
height might amount to a taking without due process of
law. Martin v. District of Columbia, 205 UI. S. 135, 139.
Perhaps it would be too strict to deal with this case as
concerning only the requirement of thirty days' notice.
For although the plaintiff alleged that he wanted the
premises for his own use the defendant denied it and
might have prevailed upon that issue under the act. The
general question to which we have adverted must be
decided, if not in this then in the next case, and it should

BLOCK v. HUM.
135

Opinim of the Cort

be disposed of now.--The main point against the law is
that tenants are allowed to remain in possession at the
same rent that they have been paying, unless modified by
the Commission established by the act, and that thus the
use of the land and the right of the owner to do what he
will with his own and to make what contracts he pleae
are cut down. But if the public interest be established the
regulation of rates is one of the first forms in which it is
asserted, and the validity of such regulation has been
settled since Munn v. lllinois, 94 U. S. 113. It is said that
a grain elevator may go out of business whereas here the
use is fastened upon the land. The power to go out of
business, when it exists, is an illusory answer to gas companies and waterworks, but we need not stop at that. The
regulation is put and justified only as a temporary measure. See Wihm v. New, 243 U. S. 332, 345, 346. Fort
Smith & Weaem R. R. Co. v. Mils, 253 U. S. 206. A limit
in time, to tide over a passing trouble, well may justify
a law that could not be upheld as a permanent change.
Machinmy is provided to secure to the landlord a
reasonable rent § 106. It may be assumed that the
interpretation of "reasonable" will deprive him in part at
least of the power of profiting by the sudden influx of
people to Washington caused by the needs of Government
and the war, and thus of a right usually incident to
fortunately situated property-of a part of the value of his
property as defined in Internatima/Harmster Co. v. Kentueky, 234 U. S. 222. Southern Ry. Co. v. Greene, 216
U. S. 400, 44. But while it is unjust,to pursue such profits
from a national misfortune with sweeping denunciations.
the policy of restricting them has been embodied in taxation and is accepted. It goes little if at all farther than the
restriction put upon the rights of the owner of money by
the more debatable usury laws. The preference given to
the tenant in possession is an almost necessary incident of
the policy and is traditional in English law. If the tenant

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
McKxlNA, J., WHITE, Ch. J., and others, dissenting.

256 U. S.

remained subject to the landlord's power to evict, the

attempt to limit the landlord's demands would fail.
Assuming that the end in view otherwise justified the
means adopted by Congress, we have no concern of course
with the question whether those means were the wisest,
whether they may not cost more than they come to, or will
effect the result desired. It is enough that we are not warranted in saying that legislation that has been resorted to
for the same purpose all over the world, is futile or has no
reasonable relation to the relief sought. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co. v. McGuire, 219 U. S. 549, 569.
The statute is objected to on the further ground that
landlords and tenants are deprived by it of a trial by jury
on the right to possession of the land. If the power of the
Commission established by the statute to regulate the
relation is established, as we think it is, by what we have
said, this objection amounts to little. To regulate the
relation and to decide the facts affecting it are hardly
separable. While the act is in force there is little to decide
except whether the rent allowed is reasonable, and upon
that question the courts are given the last word. A part
of the exigency is to secure a speedy and summary administration of the law and we are not prepared to say that the
suspension of ordinary remedies was not a reasonable provision of a statute reasonable in its aim and intent. The
plaintiff obtained a judgment on the ground that the
statute was void, root and branch. That judgment must
be reversed.
Judgment reversed.
MP. JusTcE McKENNA, with whom concurred
THE CHIEF JUSTICE, MIL JUSTICE VAN DEVASTER and
MR. JUsTICE McREYNOLDS, dissenting:

THE CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JusTcE VAN DzvANTEa,
MR. J-sTIcE McRE"'OLDS and I dissent from the opinion

BLOCK v.HIRSH.
13.

McKENK,

J., WwmI,

159

Ch. J., and others, dismnting.

and judgment of the court. The grounds of dissent are
the explicit provisions of the Constitution of the United
States; the specifications of the grounds are the irresistible
deductions from those provisions and, we think, would
require no expression but for the opposition of those whose

judgments challenge attention.
The National Government by the Fifth Amendment to
the Constitution, and the States by the Fourteenth
Amendment, are forbidden to deprive any person of
"life, liberty, or property, without due process of law."
A further provision of the Fifth Amendment is that private property cannot be taken for public use, without
just compensation. And there is a special security to
contracts in § 10 of Article I in the provision that "No
State shall . . . pass any . . . law impairing the
obligation of contract& . . ." These provisions are limitations upon the national legislation, with which this case
is concerned, and limitations upon state legislation, with
which Marcus Brown Holding Co. v. Fddman, post, 170,
is concerned. We shall more or less consider the cases together, as they were argued and submitted on the same
day and practically depend upon the same principles; and
what we say about one applies to the other.
The statute in the present case is denominated "The
Rent Law" and its purpose is to permit a lessee to continue
in possession of leased premises after the expiration of his
term, against the demand of his landlord and in direct
opposition to the covenants of the lease, so long as he pays
the rent and performs the conditions as fixed by the lease
or as modified by a comnission created by the statute.
This is contrary to every conception of leases that the
world has ever entertained, and of the reciprocal rights
and obligations of lessor and lessee.
As already declared, the provisions of the Constitution
seem so direct and definite as to need no reinforcing words
and to leave no other inquiry than, Does the statute under

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
McK..-.'A, J., Wnri, Ch. J., and others, diesenting.

256 U. S.

review come within their prohibition? It is asserted, that
the statute has been made necessary by the conditions
resulting from the "Imperial German war." The thought
instantly comes that the country has had other wars with
resulting embarrassments, yet they did not induce the
relaxation of constitutional requirements nor the exercise of arbitrary power. Constitutional restraints were
increased, not diminished. However, it may be admitted
that the conditions presented a problem and induced an
appeal for government remedy. But we must bear in
mind that the Constitution is, as we have shown, a
restraint upon government, purposely provided and declared upon consideration of all the consequences of what
it prohibits and permits, making the restraints upon government the rights of the governed. And this careful
adjustment of power and rights makes the Constitution
what it was intended to be and is, a real charter of liberty,
receiving and deserving the praise that has been given it
as "the most wonderful work ever struck off at any given
time by the brain and purpose of man." And we add that
more than a century of trial "has certainly proven the
sagacity of the constructors, and the stubborn strength of
the fabric."
The "strength of the fabric" can not be assigned to any
one provision, it is the contribution of all, and, therefore,
it is not the expression of too much anxiety to declare that
a violation of any of its prohibitions is an e-Al-an evil in
the circumstance of violation, of greater evil because of its
example and malign instruction. And against the first
step to it this court has warned, expressing a maxim of
experience,-" W tstand beginnings." Boyd v. Uniled
States, 116 U. S. 616, 635. Who can know to what end
they will conduct?
The facts of this litigation point the warning. Recurring
to them, we may ask, Of what concern is it to the public
health or the operations of the Federal Government who

BLOCK v. HIRSH.
135.

McKMA, J., WnHM Ch. J., and others, dissenting.

shall occupy a cellar, and a room above it, for business
purposes in the City of Washington?-(the question in
this case); and, Why is it the solicitude of the police power
of the State of New York to keep from competition an
apartment in the City of New York?-(the question in the
other case). The answer is, to supply homes to the homeless. It does not satisfy. If the statute keeps a tenant in,
it keeps a tenant out, indeed, this is its assumption. Its
only basis is, that tenants are more numerous than landlords and that in some way this disproportion, it is assumed, makes a tyranny in the landlord, and an oppression
to the tenant, notwithstanding the tenant is only required
to perform a contract entered into, not under the statute,
but before the statute; and that the condition is remedied
by rent fixing-value adjustment-by the power of the

GovaenL And this, it is the view of the opinion, has
justification because "space in Washington is limited"
and "housing is a necessary of life." A causative and
remedial relation in the circumstances we are unable to
see. We do see that the effect and evil of the statute is
that it withdraws the dominion of property from its
owner, superseding the contracts that he confidently

made under the law then existing and subjecting them to
the fiat of a subsequent law.
If such emercise of government be legal, what exercige of
government is illegal? Houses are a necessary of life, but
other things are as necessary. May they too be taken
frmn the direction of their owners and disposed of by the
Government? Who supplies them, and upon what inducement? And, when supplied, may those who get them
under promise of return, and who had no hand or expense
in their supply, dictate the terms of retention or use, and
be bound by no agreement concerning them?
An affirmative answer seems to be the requirement of
the decision. If the public interest may be concerned, as
in the statute der review, with the control of any form

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
McKE1 A, J., WHn

, Ch. J., and others, dissenting.

256 U. 8.

of property, it can be concerned with the control of all
forms of property. And, certainly, in the first instance,
the necessity or expediency of control must be a matter of
legislative judgment. But, however, not to go beyond
the case-if the public interest can extend a lease it can
compel a lease; the difference is only in degree and boldness. In one as much as in the other, there is a violation
of the positive and absolute right of the owner of the
property. And it would seem, necessarily, if either can be
done, unoccupied houses or unoccupied space in occupied
houses can be appropriated. The efficacy of either to
afford homes for the homeless cannot be disputed. In
response to an inquiry from the bench, counsel replied
that the experiment had been tried or was being tried in a
European country. It is to be remembered, that the
legality of power must be estimated not by what it will do
but by what it can do.
The prospect expands and dismays when we pass outside of considerations applicable to the local and narrow
conditions in the District of Columbia. It is the assertion
of the statute that the Federal Government is embarrased
in the transaction of its business, but, as we have said, a
New York statute is submitted to us and counsel have
referred to the legislation of six other States. And, there is
intimation in the opinion that Congress in its enactment has imitated the laws of other countries. The facts
are significant and suggest the inquiry, Have conditions
come, not only to the District of Columbia, embarrassing
the Federal Government, but to the world as well, that
are not amenable to passing palliatives, so that socialism,
or some form of socialism, is the only permanent corrective
or accommodation? It is indeed strange that this court,
in effect, is called upon to make way for it and, through the
instrument of a constitution based on personal rights and
the purposeful encouragement of individual incentive and
energy, to declare legal a power exerted for their destruc-

BLOCK v. HIRSH.
135.

McKmA, J., Wnin, Ch. J., and others, dissenting.

tion. The inquiry occurs, Have we come to the realization
of the observation that "War unless it be fought for liberty
is the most deadly enemy of liberty?"
But, passing that, and returning to the Constitution, it
will be observed, as we have said, that its words are a
restraint upon power, intended as such in deliberate
persuasion of its wisdom as against unrestrained freedon
And it is significant that it is not restraint upon a
"Governing One" but restraint upon the people themselves, and in the persuasion, to use the words of'one of the
supporters of the Constitution, that "the natural order of
things is for liberty to yield and for government to gain
ground." Sinister interests, its conception is, may move
government to exercise; one class may become dominant
over another; and, against the tyranny and injustice that
will result, the framers of the Constitution believed precautions were as necessary as against any other abuse of
power. And so careful is it of liberty that it protects in
many provisions the individual against the magistrate.
Has it suddenly become weak-become, not a restraint
upon evil government, but an impediment to good government? Has it become an anachronism, and is it to become "an archmeological relic," no longer to be an efficient
factor in affairs but something only to engage and entertain the studies of antiquarians? Is not this to be dreaded
-- indeed will it not be the inevitable consequence of the
decision just rendered? Let us see what it justifies, and
upon what principle! But first and preliminary to that
inquiry are the provisions it strikes down. We have given
them, but we repeat them. By § 10 of Article I it is
provided, "No State shall
. . paw any
law impairing the obligation of contracts, . . ." By
the Fifth Amendment, no person can be deprived of
property without due process of law. The prohibitions
need no strengthening comment. They are as absolute
as axioms. A contract existing, its obligation is impreg-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
McKZNA, J., WmTE, Ch. J., and others, dissenting.

256 U. S.

nable. The elements that make a contract or its obligation we need not consider. The present case is concerned
with a lease, and that a lease is a contract we do not pause
to demonstrate either to lawyers or to laymen, nor that
the rights of the lessor are the obligations of the lessee,
and, of course, the rights of the lessee are the obligations of
the lessor-the mutuality constituting the consideration
of the contract-the inducement to it and its value, no
less to the lessee than to the lessor.
What were the rights and obligations in the present case
and what was the right of Hirsh to control his property?
Hirsh is the purchaser of a lot in the City of Washington;
Block is the lessee of the lot and he agreed that at the end
of his tenancy he would surrender the premises, and this
and "each and every one of the covenants, conditions and
agreements," he promised "to keep and perform." Hirsh
at the end of the term demanded possession. It was refused, and against this suit to recover possession there was
pleaded the statute. The defense prevailed in the trial
court; the statute was declared unconstitutional in the
Court of Appeals. It is sustained by the decision just
announced.
It is manifest, therefore, that by the statute the Government interposes with its power to annul the covenants of a
contract between two of its citizens and to transfer the
uses of the property of one and vest them in the other.
The interposition of a commission is but a detail in the
power exerted-not extenuating it in any legal sense-indeed, intensifies its illegality, takes away the right to a
jury trial from any dispute of fact.
If such power exist, what is its limit and what its consequences? And by consequences we do not mean who shall
have a cellar in the City of Washington or who shall have
an apartment in a million-dollar apartment house in the
City of New York, but the broader consequences of unrestrained power and its exertion against property, having

BLOCK v. HIRSH.
135.

McK mNA, J., Wmm, Ch. J., and othem, dissenting.

example in the present case, and likely to be applied in
other cases. This is of grave concern. The security
of property, next to personal security against the exertions
of government, is of the essence of liberty. They are
joined in protection, as we have shown, and both the
National Government (Fifth Amendment) and the States
(Fourteenth Amendment) are forbidden to deprive any
person "of life, liberty, or property, without due process
of law," and the emphasis of the Fifth Amendment is
that private property cannot be "taken for public use,
without just compensation." And, in recognition of the
purpose to protect property and the rights of its owner
from governmental aggression, the Third Amendment provides, "No soldier shall, in time of peace be quartered in
any house, without the consent of the owner, nor in time of
war, but in a manner to be prescribed by law."
There can be no conception of property aside from its
control and use, and upon its use depends its value.
Branson v. Bush, 251 U. S. 182, 187. Protection to it has
been regarded as a vital principle of republican institutions. It is next in degree to the protection of personal
liberty and freedom from undue interference or molestation. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co. v. Chicago,
166 U. S. 226. Our social system rests largely upon its
sanctity, "and that State or community which seeks to
invade it will soon discover the error in the disaster which
follows." Knoxvile v. Knoxville Water Co., 212 U. S. 1, 18.
There is not a contention made in this case that this
court has not pronounced untenable. An emergency is
asserted as a justification of the statute and the impairment of the contract of the lease. A like contention was
rejected in Ex parte Milligan, 4 Wall. 2. It was there
declared (page 120) "that the principles of constitutional
liberty would be in peril, unless established by irrepealable
law." And it was said that "the Constitution of the
United States is a law for rulers and people, equally in war

OCTOBER TEBM, 1920.
McKEN.A, J., WHrrE, Ch. J., and others, dissenting.

256 U. S.

and in peace, and covers with the shield of its protection
all classes of men, at all times, and under all circumstances.
No doctrine, involving more pernicious consequences, was
ever invented by the wit of man than that any of its proisions can be suspended during any of the great exigencies
of government."
But what is the power that is put in opposition to the
Constitution and supersedes its prohibitions? It is not
clear from the opinion what it is. The opinion gives to
the police power a certain force but its range is not defined.
Circumstances, it is said, "have clothed the letting of
buildings in the District of Columbia with a public interest
so great as to justify regulation by law," though at other
times and places such letting may be only of private con3ern; and the deduction is justified, it is said, by analogy
to the business of insurance, the business of irrigation and
the business of mining. German Alliance Insurance Co. v.
Lewis, 233 U. S. 389; Clark v. Nash, 198 U. S. 361; Strickley v. HighlandBoy Gold Mining Co., 200 U. S. 527. It is
difficult to handle the cases or the assertion of what they
decide. An opposing denial only is available.
To us the difference is palpable between life insurance
and the regulation of its rates by the State and the exemption of a lessee from the covenants of his lease with the
approval of the State, in defiance of the rights of the lessor.
And as palpably different is the use of water for mining or
irrigation or manufacturing, and eminent domain exercised for the procurement of its means with the requirement of compensation, and as palpably different is eminent domain, with attendant compensation, exercised for
railways and other means for the working of mines.
And there is less analogy in laws regulating the height of
buildings in business sections of a city; or the requirement
of boundary pillars in coal mines to safeguard the employees of one in case the other should be abandoned and
allowed to fill with water; or the regulation of bill-boards

BLOCK v. HIRSH.
135.

MCKMONA, J., Wmf=, Ch. J., and others, dissenting.

in cities on account of their menace to morality, health and
decency (in what way it is not necessary to specify); or
the keeping clear of watersheds to protect the water
reservoirs of cities from damage by devastating fires or the
peril of them, from accumulation of "tree tops, boughs
and lops" left upon the ground.'
The cases and their incidents hardly need explanatory
comment. They justify the prohibition of the use of
property to the injury of others, a prohibition that is expressed in one of the maxims of our jurisprudence. Such
use of property is, of course, within the regulating power
of government. It is one of the objects of government to
prevent harm by one person to another by any conduct.
The police power has some pretense for its invocation,
Regarding alone the words of its definition, it embraces
power over everything under the sun, and the line that
separate, its legal from its illegal operation can .not be
easily drawn. But it must be drawn. To borrow the illustration of another, the line that separates day from
night can not be easily discerned or traced, yet the light
of day and the darkness of night are very distinct things.
And as distinct in our judgment is the puissance of the
Constitution over all other ordinances of power, and -as
distinct are the cited cases from this case; and if they
can bear the extent put upon them, what extent can be
put upon the case at bar or upon the limit of the principle
it declares? It is based upon the insistency of the public
interest and its power. As we understand, the assertion
is, that legislation can regard a private transaction as a
matter of public interest. It is not possible to express
the possession or exercise of more unbounded or irresponsible power. It is true, in mitigation of this declaration
and of the alarm that it causes, it is said that the declaraWtch v. Sibtay, 214 U. S. 91; Plymouth Coal Co. v. Permsylrvnia,
22 U. S. 531; 8t. Louii Poser Adrtising Co. v. St. Louis,.249 U. S.
269; Parley v. North Carla.249 U. S. 51M

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
McKwNNA, J., WHITz, Ch. J., and othe s, dissenting. 256 U.S.
tion is not necessarily conclusive on the courts, but "is entitled, at least, to great respect." This is intangible to
measurement or brief answer. But we need not beat
about in generalities or grope in their indetermination
in subtle search for a test of a legal judgment upon the
conditions, or the power exerted for their relief. "The
Rent Law" is brought to particularity by the condemnation of the Constitution of the United States. Call
it what you will-an exertion of police or other powernothing can absolve it from illegality. Limiting its duration to two years certainly cannot. It is what it does
that is of concern. Besides, it is not sustained as the
expedient of an occasion, the insistence of an emergency,
but as a power in government over property based on the
decisions of this court whose extent and efficacy the opiniqn takes pains to set forth and illustrate. And as a power
in government, if it exist at all, it is perennial and universal and can give what duration it pleases to'its exercise, whether for two years or for more than two years.
If it can be made to endure for two years, it can be made
to endure for more. There is no other power that can
pronounce the limit of its duration against the time expressed in it, and its justification practically marks the
doom of judicial judgment on legislative action.
The won
comes to us, What will the country do with
its new freedom? Contracts and the obligation of contracts are the basis of its life and of all its business,
and the Constitution, fortifying the conventions of
honor, is their conserving power. Who can foretell
the consequences of its destruction or even question
of it? The case is concerned with the results of
the German war and we are reminded thereby that
there were contracts made by the National Government
in the necessity or solicitude of the conduct of the warcontracts into which patriotism eagerly entered, but, it
may be, interest was enticed, by the promise of exemp-

BLOCK v. HIRSH.
13

McKWWA, J., WM=, Ch.

J., and others, dissenting.

tion from a burden of government. Burdens of government are of the highest public interest, and their discharge is of imperious necessity. Therefore, the provocation or temptation may come to those who feel them
that the property of others (estimated in the millions,
perhaps) should not have asylum from a share of the load.
And what answer can be made to such demand within the
principle of the case now decided? Their promises are
as much within the principle as the lease of Hirsh is,
for, necessarily, if one contract can be disregarded in
the public interest every contract can be; patriotic honor
may be involved in one more than in another, but degrees of honor may not be attended to-the public interest being regarded as paramount. At any rate, does not
the decision just delivered cause a dread of such result
and take away assurance of security and value from the
contracts and their evidences? And it is well to remember that other exigencies may come to the Government
making necessar other appeals. The Government can
only offer the inducement and security of its bonds, but
who will take them if doubt can be thrown upon the integrity of their promises under the conception of a public interest that is superior to the Constitution of the
United States?
It comes to our recollection also that some States of
the Union, in consummation of what is conceived to be a
present necessity, have also entered into contracts of
like kind. They, too, may come under a subsequent declaration of an imperious public interest and their promises be made subject to it.
The prophecy is not unjustified. This court has at
times been forced to declare particular state laws void
for their attempted impairment of the obligation of contracts. To accusations hereafter of such an effect of a
state law this decision will be opposed, and the conception of the public interest.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

256 U. S.

Indeed, we ask, may not the State have other interests
besides the nullification of contracts, and may not its
police power be exerted for their consummation? If not,
why not? Under the decision just announced, if one
provision of the Constitution may be subordinated to
that power, may not other provisions be? At any rate,
the case commits the country to controversies, and their
decision, whether for the supremacy of the Constitution
or the supremacy of the power of the States, will depend
upon the uncertainty of judicial judgment.

MARCUS BROWN HOLDING COMPANY, INC.,
v. FELDMLAN ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 731.

Argued March 3, 7, 1921.-Decided April 18, 1921.

1. In view of the emergency declared by the legislature and found by
the District Court in this case and in like cases by the highest
court of the State, the New York laws enacted on September 27,
1920, to be in effect only until November 1, 1922, and regulating
rights and remedies in respect of real property occupied for dwelling
purposes in and about the City of New York, do not exceed the
police power of the State in requiring that only reasonable rents
shall be exacted or in denying the right to maintain actions to recover possession except upon the grounds that the occupant is
holding over and is objectionable, or that the owner of record, being
a natural person, seeks in good faith to recover for immediate oocupancy by himself and family as a dwelling, or that the action is
to recover possession for the purpose of demolishing the building with
intention to construct a new one. P. 198. Block v. Hirsh,ante, 135.
2. Held, that such regulation, as applied in favor of tenants holding over
under an expired lease in disregard of their covenant to surrender, did

