BLANSET v. CARDIN.
Couned for Partes.

BLANSET v. CARDIN, AS GUARDIAN OF DAYLIGHT, A MINOR, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 244.

Argued April 20, 1921.-Decided May 16, 1921.

1. The trasmision f restricted Indian allotments by will is governed

by the Act of June 25, 1910, c. 431, §2, 36 Stat. 856, amended
February- 14, 1913, c. 55, 37 Stat. 678, and the regulations therewider preceibed by the Secretary of the Interior. P. 323.
2. Oklahoma Code, 58341, providing that no woman while married
shall devise ("bequeath "')more than two-thirds of her property

away from her husband, does not affect a will made by a Quapaw
oman and approved by the Seczetary after her death, so devising
her restricted land. P. 322.
261 Fed. Rep, 309, affirmed.

Tins was a suit in the District Court of the Eastern
District of Oklahoma, brought by the present appellant,
to assert an interest in land, claimed by him as heir
of his wife, and by the defendants as devisees in her will.
The District Court dismissed the bill and the Circuit
Court of Appeals affirmed the decree. The facts are
stated in the opinion.
Mr. Henry C. Lewis and Mr. Paul A. Ewert for appellant.
Mr. A. C. Wallace for appellees.
Mr. Ledie C. GarneU, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General. with whom The Solicitor General and Mr. H. L.
Underood, Special Assistant to the Attorney General,
were on the brief, for the United States, by special leave
Of court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE McKENN-_A

256 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Appellant brought this suit to have himself declared
to be owner of an undivided one-third interest in all lands
(they are described in the bill) and other property of
which his wife, Fannie Crawfish Blanset, died seised or
possessed, free and clear of all claims and demands of the
appellees; and to declare void a will of his wife and its
approval by the Secretary of the Interior.
The basis of the bill is the contention that under the
laws of Oklahoma no man and no woman while married
shall bequeath more than two-thirds of his or her property
away from the other and that the prohibition extends to
an Indian woman's allotment, under acts of Congress,
of restricted lands.
The bill is quite involved and contains many repetitions.
Its ultimate propositions may be paraphrased as follows:
Appellant is a white man, and his wife, Fannie Crawfish
Blanset, was an Indian woman of the Quapaw Tribe.
She was an allottee of the lands herein involved which
were restricted lands, so called; that is, non-alienable
for the period of twenty-five years. She made a will devising her land to appellees, they being her children or
grandchildren, and bequeathed to them also all trust
funds which might be held by the United States for her.
The will w-as approved by the Assistant CommLioner
of Indian Affairs and by the Assistant Secretary of the
Interior under and in pursuance of the provisions of an
Act of Congress of June 25, 19'0, c. 431. 36 Stat. 855, 856,
as amended February 14, 1913, c. 55, 37 Stat. 678, and
filed in the office of the Secretary of the Interior where
such wills are properly and lawfully filed, and are of
record.
Congress by the foregoing, and other legislation, provided --that the state laws of descent should apply to

BLANSET v. CARDIN.
319.

Opinion of the Court.

Indian allotments and to interests therein, and that the
Secretary of the Interior should be governed by the
same," and that 'Section 8341 of the Code of Oklahoma
created an indefeasible descent in favor of the husband
and that the will of a wife which attempts to will away
from her husband more than two-thirds of her estate is
therefore void and of no effect to the extent to which it
attempts so to do, and that in such case the husband
takes by descent to the same extent." By that section
appellant is made heir to property worth $40,000 of the
estate of his wife, while the will gives him only $5.00;
that the will is null and void and that to the extent of
his heir,-hip his wife died intestate, and that. he is an heir
at law of one-third of her estate; that notwithstanding
§ 8341 each of the appellees is claiming to be the owner
of a one-third undivided interest in and to all of the remaining restricted lands, inherited or otherwise, of which
Fannie Crawfish Blanset died possessed and of a onethird interest to all trust funds held by the United States
to her use and benefit, such claims neing made under
and by virtue of the will.
There is an allegation in the bill to the effect that appellant's wife left little or no personal property except
moneys held in trust for her from the sale of inherited
Indian lands by the United States, that by § 8419 dower
and curtesy were abolished and by § 8418 it was provided
as follows: "Ifthe decedent leave a surviving husband
or wife, and only one child, or the lawful issue of one
child, [the estate must be distributed] in equal shares to
the surviving husband, or wife and child, or i-sue of such
child. If the decedent leave a surviving husband or wife,
and more than one child living, or one child living and
the lawful issue of one or more deceased children, one-third
to the surviving husband or wife, and the remainder in
equal shares to his children, and to the lawful issue of
any deceased child, by right of representation." And by

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

2M U. S.

§ 6328 it is provided: "Upon the death of either husband or wife, the survivor may continue to possess and
occupy the whole homestead, which shall not in any
event be subject to administration proceedings, until it
is otherwise disposed of according to law; and upon the
death of both husband and wife the children may continue to possess and occupy the whole homestead until
the youngest child becomes of age."
It is alleged "that Section 1 of the Act of June 2,5, 1910,
of which the Act of February 14, 1913, is amendatory, is
as follows: 'That when any Indian to whom an allotment
of land has been made, or may hereafter be made, dies
before the expiration of the trust period and before the
issuance of a fee simple patent, without having made a
will disposing of said allotment as hereinafter provided,
the Secretary of the Interior, upon notice and hearing,
under such rules as he may prescribe, shall ascertain the
legal heirs of such decedent."'
On motion of defendants (appellees here) the bill was
dismissed for want of equity. The ruling was affirmed
by the Circuit' Court of Appeals.
The case is not in broad compass and presents as its
ultimate question the accordance or discordance of the
laws of Congress and the laws of the State; and whether
there is accordance or discordance depends upon a comparison of § 8341 of the Oklahoma Code, upon which appellant relies, and the acts of Congress referred to in the
bill and what was done under them.
That comparison we proceed to make. By § 8341 of
the Code "'Every estate and interest in real or personal
proprty to which heirs, husband, widow, or next of kin
might succeed, may be disposed of by will: Provided,
that no marriage contract in writing has been entered
into between the parties; no man while married shall
bequeath more than two-thirds of his property away
from his wife, nor shall any woman while married be-

BLANSE" v. CARDIN.
319.

Opinion of the Court.

queath more than two-thirds of her property away from
"
her husband;
The provision of the Code is determinative, appellant
contends, because the law of "Descents and Distributions " of Arkansas was made applicable to the Indian
Territory May 2, 1890 (c. 182, 26 Stat. 94, 95), and extended in its application in 1904 (c. 1824, 33 Stat. 573),
and, while at those times "testamentary power had not
been given to restricted allottees the property in this
case was a restricted allotment and the period of restriction had not expired) of any tribe, but the property descended, as to all tribes, wherever located, according to
the local law," yet when Oklahoma was admitted as a
State the Arkansas law was superseded by the Oklahoma
Code. For this Jefferson v. Fink, 247 U. S. 288, is
adduced.
But against the contention and conclusion the Act of
Congress approved February 14, 1913, c. 55, 37 Stat. 678,
is opposed. That act amends § 2 of the Act of June 25,
1910, so as to read as follows:
"Sec. 2. That any persons of the age of twenty-one
years having any right, title, or interest in any allotment
held under trust or other patent containing restrictions
on alienation or individual Indian moneys or other
property held in trust by the United States shall have the
right prior to the expiration of the trust or restrictive
period, and before the issuance of a fee simple patent
or the removal of restrictions, to dispose of such property
by will, in accordance with regulations to be prescribed
by the Secretary of the Interior. Provided, however, That
no will so executed shall be valid or have any force or
effect unless and until it shall have been approved by
the Secretary of the Interior: Protided further, That the
Secretary of the Interior may approve or disapprove the
will either before or after the death of the testator, and
in case where a will has been approved and it is subse-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

quently discovered that there has been fraud in connection
with the execution or procurement of the will the Secretary of the Interior is hereby authorized within one year
after the death of the testator to cancel the approval
of the will, and the property of the tstator shall thereupon descend or be distributed in accordance with the
laws of the State wherein the property is located: Protided further, That the approval of the will and the death
of the testator shall not operate to terminate the trust
or restrictive period, but the Secretary of the Interior
may, in his discretion, cause the lands to be sold and the
money derived thereirom, or so much thereof as may be
necessary, used for the benefit of the heir or heirs entitled
thereto, remove the restrictions, or cause patent in fee
to be issued to the devisee or devisees, and pay the moneys
to the legatee or legatees either in whole or in part. from
time to time as he may deem advisable, or use it for their
benefit: Provided also, That sections one and two of this
Act shall not apply to the Five Civilized Tribes or the
Osage Indians."
The SecretAry of the Interior made regulations which
were proper to the exercise of the power conferred upon
him and the execution of the act of Congress, and it would
seem that no comment is necessary to show that § 8341
is excluded from pertinence or operation.
But this conclusion counsel resists. He says "as long
as restrictions have not been removed the allotment is
subject to the plenary power and control of Congress,"
but "when restrictions are removed the allotment automatically becomes subject to the state law." That is,
and to make application to the pending case, at the instant
his wife died, appellant became heir at law to one-third
of her property under the laws of the State. Appellant's
reasoning is direct and confident. By his wife's death, he
asserts, her allotment was emancipated from government
control: that under § 8341 her will was void; she, there-

BLANSET v. CARDIN.
319.

Opinion of the Court.

fore, died intestate and he became her heir of an undivided
one-third of her allotment under § 8418 set out in the bill.
And the further contention is that § 8341 is continued
because the act of Congress does not expressly provide
how the land shall be devised, and because it recognizes
that the state laws of descent are applicable in case the
Secretary disapproves the will after the death of the
testator.
If the first contention be true, the act of Congress is
reduced to impotence by its contradictions. According
to the contention it permits a will and immediately provides for its defeat at the very instant it is to take effect
and can only take effect. Such antithetical purpose cannot be imputed to Congress and it is repelled by the
words of § 2. They not only permit a will but define its
permissible extent, excluding any limitation or the intrusion of any qualification by state law. They provide that
one having an interest "in any allotment held under
trust or other patent containing restrictions on alienation
. . . shall have the right prior to the expiration of
the trust- or restrictive period, and before the issuance
of-a fee simple patent or the.removal of restrictions, to
dispose of uch property litalics ours] by will, in accordance with regulations to be prescribed by the Secretary
of the Interior." And it is further provided "that the
Secretary of the Interior may approve or disapprove the
will either before or after the death of the testator " and
.that neither circumstance shall "operate to terminate
the trust or restrictive period, but the Secretary of the
Interior may, in his discretion,
.
cause patent in
fee to be issued to the devisee or devisees."
To the other contention (if it may be called such) the
answer is, that the contingency (disapproval of the will
after the death of the testator) did not occur and besides,
there were alternatives to the contingency irreconcilable
with the disposition of the property under the state code.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

The act of Congress is careful of conditions. In the
first instance it is concerned with testacy, that is, the
existence of a will. A will existing, the allotment is disposed of by it. A will not existing--either not executed
or if executed, cancelled, there is intestacy, and the state
laws of descent and distribution obtain. In the present
case there is a will and it is uncancelled and, therefore,
the contention of appellant is untenable. And it will also
be observed by recurring to the act of Congress, powers
are invested in the Secretary which preclude interference
or control by anybody, or right in anybody to have cancelled "the patent in fee " which is empowered "to be
issued to the devisee or devisees," a right appellant asserts
in the present case. In a wo.-d, the act of Congress is
complete in its control and administration of the allotment and of all that is connected with or made necessary
by it, and is antagonistic to any right or interest in the
husband of an Indian woman in her allotment under the
Oklahoma Code. And we agree with the Court of Appeals that the act of Congress was the prompting of
prudence to afford "protection to dependent and natural
heirs against the waste of the estate as the result of an
unfortunate marriage and enforced inheritance by state
laws." And there can be no doubt that the act was the
suggestion of the Interior Department, and its construction is an assistant, if not demonstrative criterion, of the
meaning and purpose of the act. Swiart v. Baker, 229
U. S. 187; Jacobs v. Prichard,223 U. S. 200; United States
v. Cerecedo Hermanos, 209 U. S. 337. And the regulations
of the Department are administrative of the act and
partake of its legal iore.
Our conclusion is the same as that of the Court of Appeals, "that it was the intention of Congress that this
class of Indians should have the right to dispose of property by will under this act of Congress, free irom restrictions on the part of the State as to the portions to be

PHILA. & READ. RY. CO. v. DI DONATO.
319.

327

Opinion of the Court.

conveyed or as to the objects of the testator's bounty,
provided such wills are in accordance with the regulations
and meet the approval of the Secretary of the Interior."
The court added that the conclusion was in accord with
the views of the Supreme Court of the State, referring
to Brock v. Ketfer, 59 Oklahoma, 5.

Decree affirmed.

PHILADELPHIA & READING RAILWAY COMPANY v. DI DONATO.
CERnoRAR TO TEE SUPREM COURT OF THE STATE O,
PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 297. Argued April 28, 192.-Deeided May 16, 1921.
A watchman employed on an interstate railroad at a public grade

crosig to signal both interstate and intrastate trams and guard
the tracks against disorder and obstruction, is employed in interstate commerce, irrespective of the interstate or intrastate character
of the particular train he may be flagging when injured. P. 329.

Pedan v. Ddawae, Lackawaw & Weaern R. R. Co., 229 U. S.
146.
206 Pa. St.412, rversed.
Tm case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. George Gowen Parry for petitioner.
Mr. FrancisH. Bohlen for respondent.
MR. JuricEz MCKNNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
Certiorari directed to the review of a judgment of the
Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, affirming a judgment

