OCTOBER TERlM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

PHILDELPHIA

256 U. S.

& READING RAILWAY COM-

PANY v. POLK.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
PENNSYLVA'NIA.
No. 2VS.

Argued April 23, 1921.-Decided May 16, 1921.

In a proceeding under a state workmens compensation law to recover for the death of a railroad employee, findings that, when injured, he was employed as a member of a crew in charge of a draft
of freight cars attached to an engine in a yard and containing both
interstate and intrastate cars and freight, establish his employment in interstate commerce; a special relation to the intrastate
commerce which would have rendered his employment intrastate cannot be presumed but must be proven by the actor in the proceed-ing. Philadelphia& Reading Ry. Co. v. Di Donato,ante,327. P.333.
266 Pa. St. 335, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. George Gowen Parry for petitioner.
Mr. Francis M. McAdams for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.

Certiorari to review a judgment of the Supreme Court
of the State of Pennsylvania affirming an award made

under the Workmen's Compensation Board of the State
in favor of respondent who is the widow of John M. Polk,
who died as the result of an accident, occurring in the
course of his employment by the Railway Company.
The matter of her petition proceeded in due course
from the referee of the Board to the Board, from the latter

to the Court of Common Pleas, and thence to the Supreme
Court of the State, she being adjudged by all of them en-

PHIIL. & READ. RY. CO. v. POLK.
332.

Opinion of the Court.

titled to an award under the Workmen's Compensation
Act of the State.
The facts as found are that Polk on August 28, 1917,
while employed by the Railway Company on a freight
train, in its Port Richmond Yard, handled by engine
No. 832, was caught between two cars, and as a result
thereof sustained injuries from which he died.
At the time of the occurrence of the injury the Company
was a common carrier, by rail, engaged in interstate and
intrastate commerce, and at such time there was a draft

of freight cars attached to the engine which was in charge
of the crew of which Polk was a member. Some of these
cars were bound from points within the State to other
points within the State and the others were loaded with
various commodities, some of which were bound from
points outside of the State to points within the State and
others of which were bound from points within the State
to points outside of the State, and there was at least one
car of this draft which was passing through the State
from a point in New York to a point in Illinois.
The Board, upon the appeal of the Company, adopted
the findings of fact and conclusions of law of the referee
and afflirmed his award. This action was affirmed by the
Court of Common Pleas and the latter's judgment by
the Supreme Court.
The referee did not find definitely as a fact that Polk
was engaged in intrastate commerce at the time of his
injury, but assumed that the fact might be so, therefore,
regarded it as so, because, in his opinion the burden of
proving the contrary, that is, that Polk "was actually
engaged in duties incident to interstate commerce," was
upon the Company and the Company had "not met the
burden required of it," and further, that the Company '"
offered no testimony whatever to show what work John M.
Polk was performing at the time he was injured; .
"
The Supreme Court approved the findings and the

OCTOBER TERM, 192.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

deductions from them. It is manifest therefore that the
case is within the rule of Philadelphia& Reading Ry. Co.
v. Di Donato, just decided, ante, 327. Here, as there, the
employment concerned both kinds of commerce, and was
to be exercised as much on one as on the other,-in other
words, was as much and as intimately directed to the interstate cars and freight as to the intrastate cars and
freight, and that there might have been some duties directed to the latter though there is no evidence of it, is
the suggestion of a speculation that has no tangible
prompting in the case.
Besides, we cannot accede to the view that there is a
presumption that duties performed on a train constituted
of interstate and intrastate commerce were performed in
the latter commerce. The presumption, indeed, might
be the other way. It is to be remembered that it is the
declaration of the cases that if there is an element of
interstate commerce in a traffic or employment it determines the remedy of the employee. Second Employers'
Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1; New York Central R. R. Co.
v. Winfild, 244 U. S. 147.
Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Washington, 222 U. S. 370,
375, declares and illustrates the principle. Expressing
the facts and the law applicable to them, it was said, "The
train, although moving from one point to another in the
State of Washington, was hauling merchandise from
points outside of the State destined to points within the
State and from points within the State to points in British
Columbia. . . . This transportation was interstate
commerce, and the train was an interstate train, despite
the fact that it may also have been carrying some local
freight. In view of the unity and indivisibility of the
service of the train crew and the paramount character
of the authority of Congress to regulate commerce, the
act of Congress was exclusively controlling." Southern
Ry. Co. v. United States, 222 U. S. 20.

BROWN v. UNITED STATES.
3Lyfahu

It would seem indisputable, therefore, if there be an
assertion of the claim or remedy growing out of an occurrence in which there are constituents of interstate commice, the burden of explanation and avoidance is on
him who asserts the claim or remedy, not on the railway
company to which it is directed, and there is nothing
in Osborne v. Gray, 241 U. S. 16, in opposition. Indeed,
the court was asked in that case to do what the referee
and the Supreme Court in this case have done, that is,
to aime to know things of which there is no evidence.
Judgment reased avid ae remanded for furwe proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

MR. Juncz CLzm dimentL

BROWN v. UNITED STATES.
cnrrIoRam TO THE CRCUrr COURT OF APPZls FOR TE
vIFM CIRCUIT.
No. IM.

Arzged November 19, 1920.-DoIeded May 16, 121.

1. The riht d aman to stAmid his ground and defend himself when
attacked with a deadly weapon, even to the extent Gf taking his

asalant's life, depends upon whether he reasonably believes that
he is in immediate danger of death or gdevous bodily harm from
his smilant, and not upon the detached test whether a man of
reasonable prudence, so situated, might not think it possible to fly
with sfety or to diMble his anagiant rather than kill him. P. 343.

-Berd v. United Sales, 158 U. S. 550.
2. So hdd of a homicide committed on a post-office site by one who
was ther in disharge of his duty. P. 344.
3. In a prosecutim for murder, it apeared that the defendant shot
the dec ed several tiun and sgain when the deceased had fallen

and was lying on the ground. Held, that evidence of self-defense

