WALL P. CHEF. & OHIO RY. CO.
113.

Counsel for Parties.

appellant. assuring him that the Desplaines was not a
navigable stream either in law or in fact, and that the
Department had no jurisdiction over it, asked not for a
permit, but in effect for an assurance that no permit was
necessary. The Secretary declined to act because, as the
river was not navigable, he had no jurisdiction. We cannot regard this as equivalent to an approval, either in
form or effect, or even as an official inquiry into the
navigability of the river.

Decree affirmed.
MR. JuSwTcE McRymoi~s took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

WALL, ADMINISTRATRIX OF WALL, v. CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 237.

Argued March 21, 1-21.-Dedded April 11, 1921.

A federal question which could have been raised before but was first
raissd in the state Supreme Court by a petition for rehearing, which
that court merey ovemiled, does not confer jurisdiction on this

CourL
Writ of error to review 290 Illinois, 227, dismissed.

TmE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. C. Paul Tallmadge, with whom Mr. Almon W.
Bulkley and Mr. Clair E. More were on the brief, for
plaintiff in error.
Mr. Worth E. Caylor for defendant in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Sylabu&

256 U. S.

MR. JUsrcE McRET-oLDS delivered the opinion of the

court.
An Illinois statute of 1903 amended the Act of 1853
which gave a right of action for wrongful death by adding
thereto-" Providedfurther, that no action shall be brought
or prosecuted in this State, to recover damages for a death
occurring outside of this State." Our jurisdiction is
invoked upon the theory that validity of the amending
act was challenged below because of conflict with the
Federal Constitution. But the point was not raised prior
to the petition to the Supreme Court for a rehearing which
was overruled without more. 290 Illinois, 227. It could
have been presented earlier. According to the well established rule we may not now consider it; and the writ of
error must be dismissed. Godehaux Co. v. E8Wt-inal, 251
U. S. 179.

BANK OF MIfNDEN ET AL v. CLEMNT, ADMINISTRATRIX OF CLEMENT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
No. 238. Submitted March 21, 1921.-Decided April 11, 1921.
1. A life insurance policy payable to the executors, administrators or
asigns of the insured is his property and subject to the claims of his
creditors. P.128.

2. A state law exempting policies so payable and their avails from the
debts of the insured is invalid under Art. 1, J 10, of the Constitution,
as applied to his debt under a promissory note antedating the law
and to policies also antedating it though later than the note. P. 129.
Sturges v. CrowniAkiMd, 4 Wheat. 122.
146 Louisiana, 385, reversed.

