OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Statement of the Case.

256 U. S.

SILVER KING COALITION MINES COMPANY v.
CONKLING MINING COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 158. Petition for rehearing.-Decided April 11, 1921.
1. Petition for rehearing treated as a motion for the determination of
questions argued but left open by the former decision, 255 U. S. 151.
P. 25.
2. Within the intent of the mining law, Rev. Stats., ยง 2322, with respect
to the right-to pursue a vein extralaterally on its dip, those are the
"end lines" of a lode location that cut across the strike of the vein,
if it crosses the location. P. 25.
3. A presumption that there was a discovery vein crossing the end
lines of a location as laid out should not be indulged, for the purpose
of denying extralateral rights to a vein crossing the side lines, where
there is substantial evidence that this was the only vein apexing
within the location and no substantial evidence to the contrary.
P. 26.
4. Where the vein of a patented claim crossed the location transversely,
held that the right to pursue it on dip beneath an adjacent junior
patented claim was not affected by the fact that either the discovery
shafts of the senior claim or the veiL would be left outside of it if
its side lines (located as end lines) were limited as they should
be, because a diqcovery shaft was not essential to the validity of the
location at the time when it was made, a, d because discovery of the
vein must be presumed in favor of the senior patent. P. 27.
5. Evidence held to prove that one of a series of similar deposits, found
at many different horizons, connected with a fissure vein and similar
in composition to the ore in the fissure, was a part of that vein rather
than a distinct bedded deposit. P. 27.
Decree (230 Fed. Rep. 553) reveshed.

by the respondent for a rehearing as to
questions presented but left undecided in s. c., 255 U. S.
151. The questions are disposed of on the argunent as
originally made.
PETITION

SILVER KING CO. v. CONKLING CO.
18.

Argument for Petition.

Mr. William D. McHugh, Mr. William W. Ray, Mr.
William H. King and Mr. FrancisB. Critchlow, in support
of the petition. The following matter is taken from one
of their briefs used at the argument preceding the former
decision:
Under no circumstances has the owner of a vein which
has its strike across the location the right to follow the
vein extralaterally through the plane of the located end
line. The question has never been decided by this court,reviewing Flagstaff Silver Mining Co. v. Tarbet, 98 U. S.
463; and Argentine Mining Co. v. Terrible Mining Co.,
122 U. S. 478. In King v. Amy & Silversmith Mining
Co., 152 U. $. 222, first appears the dictum that the end
lines are to be treated as side lines, repeated in Last Chance
Mining Co. v. Tyler Mining Co., 157 U. S. 683; Del Monte
Mining Co. v. Last Chance Mining Co., 171 U. S. 55; and
WalaLh v. Champion Mining Co., 171 U. S. 293.
Even if we may allow the necessity or propriety of
renaming the located end lines in order to distinguish
them from the located side lines under their new. relation,
this would not involve the necessity or the propriety of
defining the office and function of such located end lines
under such abnormal conditions. The four cases above
referred to are the only ones in which this court has expressed any opinion as to the rights of a locator to extralateral pursuit of his vein beyond the located end lines,
where by legal construction the located side lines have
become the end lines of his location.
The question here involved is one as to which courts and
text writers are at variance. No case has arisen in any of
the Circuit Courts of Appeals in which it has been decided
so far as we are aware. The principle was conceded by
counsel for both parties and adopted by the Circuit
Court of Appeals of the Ninth Circuit in Bunker Hill &
Sullivan Mining Co. v. Empire State-Idaho Mining Co.,
109 Fed. Rep. 538, both parties claiming the ore bodies

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

Argument for Petition.

256 U. S.

in dispute through the right of extralateral pursuit through
located end lines.
In the case at bar the court below (230 Fed. Rep. 561)
did not find it necessary t decide the point, for the reason
that it determined, as a matter of fact, that the discovery vein coursed along anct not across the locations,
and therefore that the end lines in question were in law
and in fact the end lines of the several claims.
Three Circuit or District Courts of the United States
have felt themselves constrained to follow the dicta of
this court in the cases above referred to. One only of
these cases was reported. It is the opinion of District
Judge Townsend of the District of Connecticut, in a ruling on demurrer to a complaint upon a contract relating
to mining claims in Arizona. The same holding was
made by District Judge Marshall in Keeley v. Ophir Hill
Mining C., (unreported), and followed by him in the case
at bar. See also, Catron v. Old, 23 Colorado, 433; Stewart
Mining Co. v. Ontario Mining Co., 23 Idaho, 724.
Commentators on mining law disagree on this question.
2 Lindley on Mines, ยง 589; 2 Snyder on Mines, 721; Morrison's Mining Rights, 15th ed., 218.
This gift of Congress to the locator and the rule which
it attempted to establish for his benefit have reference to
an extraordinary right superadded to the common-law
rights inhering in the grant of the bounded premises.
This right was upon the statutory condition that in laying
the lines of his location upon the surface he lay them so
that the side lines, to-wit, the longer lines, embrace the
outcrop of the vein upon its strike and the end lines cross
the same so that planes drawn through the latter shall
bound his rights. In every case the burden lies upon a
party claiming extralateral rights to show that he comes
strictly within the conditions of the grant. 230 Fed. Rep.
561. See Iron Silver Mining Co. v. Elgin Mining Co., 118
U. S. 196.

SILVER KING CO. v. CONKLING CO.
18.

Argument against Petition.

The locator who has framed his notice of location,
placed and maintained his stakes, and especially the
locator who has caused his land to be surveyed and monumented by officials of the Land Department, should not
thereafter be permitted to claim to the injury of a junior
locator that a mistake was made. It is a clear case of
estoppel.
Whatever may be the holding of this court as to the
right generally to follow a vein upon its dip through the
located end lines, in the case at bar no such right exists,
for the reason that the apex of the Crescent Fault Fissure
is more than 300 feet distant from the discovery point.
No reason can be conjectured why it is not as essential to
draw the side lines of the location at a distance not exceeding 300 feet on each side of the center of the lode as
it is to draw the end lines parallel. A violation of the
latter requirement destroys, or at least limits, the right of
extralateral pursuit, and there is no reason why a violation
of the former should not have the same effect as to all
the surface in excess of what would be within a proper
location.
It is well established that a United States patent issued
without authority of law as well as one issued in spite of a
law prohibiting its issuance, is invalid. Costigan, Mining
Law, 393; 2 Lindley on Mines, ยง 362; Lakin v. Dolly, 53
Fed. Rep. 333; Lakin v. Roberts, 54 Fed. Rep. 461; Richmond Mining Co. v. Rose, 114 U. S. 576; Doolan v. Carr,
125 U. S. 618; Peabody Gold Mining Co. v. Gold Hill Mining Co., 111 Fed. Rep. 817; Jones v. Wild Goose Mining
Co., 177 Fed. Rep. 95.
Mr. Thomas Marioneaux,Mr. W. H. Dickson, Mr. A. C.
Ellis; Jr., and Mr. R. G. Lucas against the petition. The
following is extracted from their briefs used at the argument preceding the former decision:
Soon after the passage of the Act of 1872, it was deter-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument against Petition.

256 U S.

mined by this court in Flagstaff Silver Mining Co. v.
Tarbet, 98 U. S. 463, that, when the vein on its course and
at its top crossed the located side lines of the claim, these
side lines must be taken to be the legal end lBies beyond
which the locator is not permitted to pursue his vein
either at or beneath the surface. In that case, as well as
in King v. Amy & Silversmith Mining Co., 152 U. S. 222,
228; Iron Silver Mining Co. v. Elgin Mining Co., 118
IT. S. 196; Del Monte Mining Co. v. Last Chance Mining
Co., 171 U. S. 55, 89; and Last Chance Mining Co. v. Tyler
Mining Co., 157 U. S. 683, it is said that, where a vein so
crosses the side lines of the claim, these lines are the end
lines and the (located) end lines the side lines of the claim.
In none of these cases, however, was the question of the
right of the locator to follow his vein extralaterally between planes drawn vertically through the located side
lines extended in their own direction involved, but
in each the courts manifestly entertained the opinion
that such right existed. The question of this right was
clearly presented and upheld, however, in the case of
Empire Milling Co. v. Tombstone Mill Co., 100 Fed. Rep.
910, 913-914. See also Last Chance Mining Co. v. Bunker
Hill & Sullivan Mining Co., 131 Fed. Rep. 579, 586--8;
Empire State-Idaho Mining Co. v. Bunker Hill & Sullivan
Mining Co., 131 Fed. Rep. 591, 603-4; Empire Milling
Co. v. Tombstone Mill Co., 131 Fed. Rep. 339, 344; Gleeson
v. Martin White Co., 13 Nevada, 459-460.
Again, it has been decided that, in case the vein at its
top and on its course crosses one end line of the claim, and
is cut off and terminates before the opposite end line is
reached, the locator is under the law entitled to the vein
throughout its depth between planes drawn one through
the end line so crossed, and another parallel thereto,
through the point where the vein terminates. Carson City
Gold & Silver Mining Co. v. North Star Mining Co., 73
Fed. Rep. 597, 602-3.

SILVER KING CO. v. CONKLING CO.
18.

Argument against Petition.

It is well settled, too, that, where a vein crosses one end
line of the claim but departs therefrom through a side line
thereof, the locator is entitled to such vein through its
entire depth between planes drawn vertically downward, one through such crossed end line and the other
parallel thereto through the point where the vein passes
out of the claim through such side line. Del Monte Mining Co. v. Last Chance Mining Co., 171 U. S. 55.
The statute should be liberally construed in favor of the
locator, so as to give him every benefit of it in its true
spirit and intent. Consolidated Wyoming Gold Mining
Co. v. Champion Mining Co., 63 Fed. Rep. 540; Keeley v.
Ophir Hill Mining Co., U. S. District Court, Utah (unreported); Tyler Mining Co. v. Last Chance Mining Co.,
71 Fed. Rep. 848, 851.
In each of the foregoing instances of irregular locationsirregular in that they were not laid upon the vein or lode
in the manner which the courts have said Congress contemplated-the extralateral right of the locator was upheld on the ground that from a correct interpretation of
the act it was apparent that the intention of Congress was
to secure to the locator the same length of the vein at
depth extralaterally as that of the top or apex thereof
included within the, boundaries of his location; and
that it is the duty of the courts, if possible, to put such
a construction upon the act as will give effect to this
intention.
To assert that the locator must place his claim along
the course of the vein at his peril is in many cases to compel him to perform the impossible, especially with claims
as narrow as those here involved. ConsolidatedWyoming
Gold Mining Co. v. Champion Mining Co., 63 Fed. Rep.
540, 548. To contend that the mining statutes are violated by locating across the apex of the vein is to virtually
ignore all of the side-end-lines cases and nullify the repeated holding of this court that the lines crossed by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

apex of the vein become the true end lines under such
circumstances.
From the issuance of the patent a conclusive presumption arises that prior to final entry a valid location of the
claim, based upon a discovered vein, had been made.
When many years thereafter it is made to appear that
there is but one vein or lode, the top or apex of which is
found within the boundaries of the claim, and this vein,
instead of being lengthwise, is crosswise of the claim, the
only legitimate conclusion, it would seem, would be that
this was the discovery vein, that the course thereof had
been mistaken by the locator; and his right to follow the
same extralaterally between planes drawn through the
located side lines should be upheld.
Under the logic of the decision in Jim Butler Tonopah
Mining Co. v. West End Consolidated Mining Co., 247
U. S. 450, we have extralateral rights upon the Crescent
fissure vein even if it be true, which we do not concede,
that it must be presumed that there is in each claim a
vein or lode running parallel to its side lines. As we interpret that case, it definitely and positively disposes of the
contention that the locator has less rights upon what has
been called incidental veins than he has upon the so-called
discovery vein.
MR. JUSTicE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is a suit brought by the respondent to establish its
right to a large body .of ore found within the lines of the
respondent's patent as it construed that document. The
main contest concerned the southwesterly 135.5 feet of
the patent as laid out by courses and distances, from which
was taken the main body of the ore. At the argument the
petitioner's statement was that "practically all the ore in
controversy was taken from within this 135.5 foot strip."

SILVER KING CO. v. CONKLING CO.
18.

Opinion of the Court.

The decision with regard to that strip was in favor of the
petitioner and as it seemed possible that the respondent
would not be able to establish that any appreciable
amount of ore was taken from the land belonging to it,
and that it might not care to attempt the proof, the questions raised with regard to such ore if any were left undecided according to the usual practice. But the respondent
points out that the petitioner has admitted that a small
amount of ore, not exceeding $20,047.50 in value, did come
from the respondent's land and presses for a decision concerning its right to that. The motion is put in the form
of a petition for rehearing; but the main thing asked and
the only thing for which we see any reason is that we decide the questions argued, but left open by us. That we
proceed to do. Nothing that has been decided will be
reopened, but leave to file the petition is granted to that
single end.
It is not disputed by the respondent, the Conkling
Mining Company, that a fissure on its strike crosses the
parallel side lines of the petitioner's claims and on its dip
.jasaes beneath the Conkling mining claim in the immediate vicinity of the ore body in dispute and between
vertical planes drawn through the parallel side lines
of the petitioner's claims and continued in their own direction. What is disputed is that this ore body is any part
of the vein referred to, known as the Crescent Fissure,
and that, if it is, the petitioner has any right to treat the
end lines of its claims as side lines and to pursue the vein
under ground beyond the vertical planes drawn through
those lines.
We take up the last question first. The typical case
supposed by Rev. Stats., ยง 2322 is that of a claim laid out
lengthwise along the strike of a vein. In that case the end
lines of the location will limit the extralateral right. But
that case is only the simplest illustration of a principle.
The general purpose is to give a right to all of the vein

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

included in the surface lines, if there is only one, provided
the apex is within the location. It often must happen
that the strike of the vein is not known but must be conjectured at the time of discovery, and that the location is
across instead of along the vein. This has been obvious
always and therefore it would be wrong to interpret the
words "end lines" narrowly, as meaning the shorter ones
in every instance. Those are the end lines that cut across
the strike of the vein if it crosses the location. We see
no sufficient reason for thinking that because the discoverer has not claimed as long a portion of the strike
as he might have, he should be deprived of even his
diminished lateral rights. It has been -the accepted
opinion of this Court for ffiany years that where as here
the strike of the vein crosses the location at right angles
its dip may be followed extralaterally, whatever the direction in which the length of the location may run. If -across
the strike as here, the side lines, as it commonly is expressed, become the end lines. Subsequent locators know
as well as the original ones that the determining fact is
the direction of the strike not the first discoverer's guess.
Flagstaff Silver Mining Co. v. Tarbet, 98 U. S. 463. King
v. Amy & Silversmith Mining Co., 152 U. S. 222, 228.
Del Monte Mining & Milling Co. v. Last Chance Mining &
Milling Co., 171 U. S. 55, 90, 91. Jim Butler Tonopah
Mining Co. v. West End Consolidated Mining Co., 247
U. S. 450, 453.
But it is said that when the end lines are determined
they are end lines for all purposes even if there are different
veins running in different directions having their apexes
within the claim. Walrath v. Champion Mining Co., 171
U. S. 293. And it is argued that there is a presumption
that has not been overcome that there was a discovery
vein running parallel with the side lines; that this determined the end lines and that therefore the petitioner got
no extralateral rights in the Crescent Fissure. The Cir-

SILVER KING CO. v. CONKLING CO.
18.

Opinion of the Court.

'cuit Court of Appeals, ppoaching the petitioner's- claim
as a claim of an exceptional privilege, seems to have
attached a weightier burden of proof to it than we are
disposed to do. They were not satisfied that the discovery
vein which determined what the end lines should be was
not some other vein than the Crescent Fissure. But we
see no substantial evidence that there was another vein.
We have the distinct testimony of experts that there was
no such and we agree with the view of the District Judge
sustaining the petitioner's extralateral rights. Whether
there are other answers to the contention we need not
decide. See Jim Butler Tonopah Mining Co. v. West End
ConsolidatedMining Co., 247 U. S. 450, 454, et seq.
It is urged that, if the end lines be taken as the side
lines, then the discovery shafts being four hundred feet
distant from the apex of the Crescent Fissure left either
the vein or the discovery outside the location with the
side lines limited as they should be. But at that time
there was no requirement making a discovery shaft essential to a valid location. And in any event our conclusion
being that the petitioner must be presumed to have discovered the Crescent Fissure, however it may have been
done, the distance of the shafts does not affect the case.
The only question that remains is whether the ore within
the respondent's lines formed part of the Crescent Fissure
vein. The Circuit Court of Appeals in view of its opinion
upon the last point made no decision upon this. But the
experienced Iistrict Judge after careful consideration
was of the opinion that the ore belonged to the vein. We
see nothing to convince us that he was wrong. The
position of the respondent is that the ore in controversy
is a distinct bedded deposit. But as the District Judge
remarks, similar deposits are found at many different
horizons, connected .with the fissure and similar in composition to thd ore in the fissure. The deposit in question
was like the others. Whether we consider merely the

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

Final Decree.

256 U. S.

practical fact of the continuously occurring deposits along
the course of the vein or the theory of their origin which
seems to us the most probable, we believe the District
Judge to have been right.
Decree of Circuit Court of Appeals reversed.
Decree of District Court affirmed.

STATE OF ARKANSAS v. STATE OF MISSISSIPPI.
IN EQUITY.
No. 6, Original. Motion for confirmation of report of commissioners
and suggestions in support of same submitted February 28, 1921.Final decree entered Apirl 11, 1921.
Decree reciting report of the commissioners heretofore appointed to
run, locate and mark the boundary between Arkansas and Mississippi involved in this case; overruling the exceptions thereto filed by
Mississippi; confirming the report; establishing the boundary as
set forth by the said report and upon the map accompanying the
same; and allowing the expenses and compensation of the said commissioners as part of the costs of this suit to be borne equally by the
parties, etc.

Mr. J. S. Utley, Mr. John M. Moore and Mr. Herbert
Pope for complainant.
Mr. Marcellus Green, Mr. Gerald Fitzgerald and Mr.
Garner W. Green for defendant.
By the CouRT: I
The State of Arkansas, having moved the court to
take up for consideration the exceptions filed by the State
' Announced by Mr. Justice Day.

