OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

SyUabus.

256 U. S.

rate for the remainder; and, finding that the rate so constructed, less a land grant deduction, was lower than the
contract rate, they rejected the latter and gave effect to
the new rate which they had constructed. They proceeded on a mistaken theory. The through individual
rate was the only regular tariff rate which was applicable.
It, less any land grant deduction, should have been compared with the contract rate ($12.80), and whichever was
lower should have been treated as controlling.
The findings relating to the transportation under the
contract do not show what the through individual rate
was, and therefore the suit cannot be finally determined
here.
The judgment is accordingly reversed and the suit is
remanded to the Court of Claims with directions to reexamine the company's claim and award a judgment
conforming to the views herein expressed.
Judgment rezwae*

FREY & SON, INCORPORATED, v. CUDAHY
PACKLNG COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH

CIRCUIT.
No. 200.

Argued March 16, 1921.-Decided April 18, 1921.

1. When the Circuit Court of Appeals reverses a judgment of the
District Court in an action at law, and the defeated party brings the
case here by waiing his right to new trial and consenting to entry of

final judgment against him in the Circuit Court of Appeals, this court
must affirm if error necessitating reversal was assgned and reied
upon in that court even though the ground of the decision was different and untenable. P. 210. Thomwn v. Cayer, 243 U. S. 66.

FREY & SON v.CUDAHY PACKING CO.
208.

209

Opinion of the Court.

2. An agrenment between manufacturer, jobbers and wholesalers to
maintain resale prices, need not be formal to violate the Sherman
Act, but may be implied from a course of dealing or other circumstanees P. 210. United States v. Schrader'sSon, Inc., 252 U.S. 85.
3. But the more facts that a manufacturer indicated a sales plan to
wholesaler and jobbers fixing prices below which they were not to sell
to retailers, and called this feature very often to their attention, and
that most of them did not dissent but eo6perated by selling at the
prices named, do not suffice to establish an agreement or combination
forbidden by the Sherman Act. P. 211.
261 Fed. Rep. 65, affirmed.

Emon to review a judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals reversing a judgment obtained by the present
plaintiff in error in an action for triple damages under the
Sherman Act in the District Court. The facts are stated
in the opinion.
Mr. Horace T. Sn
plaintiff in error.

and Mr. Charles Markell for

Mr. Gilbert H. Montwue, with whom Mr. Thomas
Creigh and Mr. Joseph W. Goodwin were on the brief, for
defendant in error.
Mi. JusTcE McRPyNoLms delivered the opinion of the

court.
Alleging the existence of an unlawful contract, combination or conspiracy between the Packing Company,
manufacturer of "Old Dutch Cleanser," and various
jobbers for the maintenance of resale prices, and relying
upon the Sherman Act (c. 647, 26 Stat. 209) as interpreted
in.Dr. Miles Medical Co. v. Park & ,Sow Co., 220 U. S. 373.
Frey & Son, Inc., instituted this action in the District
Court of the United States for Maryland to recover threefold damages. Under an elaborate charge the issues were
submitted to the jury for determination. Judgment for

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

$2,139.00 entered (June 22, 1917) upon a verdict for
plaintiff was reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals
July 16, 1919 (261 Fed. Rep. 65)---after decision of
United States v. Cogate & Co. (June 2, 1919), 250 U. S.
300, and before United States v. Schrader's Son, Inc.,
252 U. S. 85. Plaintiff in error reserved its right of review
here, waived a new trial and consented to entry of final
judgment for the Packing Company. Thomsen v. Cayser,
243 U. S. 66.
The court below concluded "There was no formal
written or oral agreement with jobbers for the maintenance of prices," and that considering the doctrine approved in United States v. Co~,ate & Co. the District Court
should have directed a verdict for the defendant. Other
errors by the trial court were assigned and relied upon.
If any of them was well taken we must affirm the final
judgment entered after waiver of new trial and upon
consent as above shown.
It is unnecessary to repeat what we said in United States
v. Colgate & Co. and United States v. Schrader'sSon, Inc.
Apparently the former case was misapprehended. The
latter opinion distinctly stated that the essential agreement, combination or conspiracy might be implied from a
course of dealing or other circumstances. Having regard
to the course of dealing and all the pertinent facts disclosed by the present record, we think whether there
existed an unlawful combination or agreement between the
manufacturer and jobbers was a question for the jury to
decide, and that the Circuit Court of Appeals erred when
it held otherwise.
Among other things the trial court charged:
"I can only say to you that if you shall find that the
defendant indicated a sales plan to the wholesalers and
jobbers, which plan fixed the price below which the wholesalers and jobbers were not to sell to retailers, and you
find defendant called this particular feature of this plan

FREY & SON v. CUDAHY PACKING CO.
208

Pewta,

DAY

211

and C.&RA JJ., dntng&

to their attention on very many different occasions, and
you find the great majority of them not only expressing
no dissent from such plan, but actually coperating in
carrying it out by themselves selling at the prices named,
you may reasonably find from such fact that there was an
agreement or combination forbidden by the Sherman
Anti-Trust Act"

The recited facts, standing alone, (there were other
pregnant ones) did not suffice to establish an agreement or
combination forbidden by the Sherman Act. This we

pointed out in Unid States v. Cdgate & Co.

As gtven

the instruction was erroneous and material.
Tbe judgment below must be

Ajbm~eL
Ma. Jusncz Pmnu,
with whom concurred MJL
Jusmcz DAY and Mu. Jusucu Cmm, dissenting:
I am constrained to dissent from the opinion and judgment of the court. Te action was brought by plaintiff in
errm, in part to recover threefold damages under § 7 of

the Sherman Anti-Trust Act of July 2, 1890, c. 647, 26
Stat. 2D9, 210, because of injuries sustained in its busin by reason of an alleged combination or agreement for
the maintenance of prices made between the Packing
Company and various wholesalers and jobbers in its
product known as "Old Dutch Cleanser." The declaration contained a second count, based upon alleged disGrimination in violation of the Clayton Act of October 15,
1914, c. 323, §§ 2, 4, 38 Stat. 730, 731; but this calls for no
special notice. A judgment rendered by the United States
District Court upon the verdict of a jury in favor of
plaintiff was reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals
(261 Fed. Rep. 65) upon the ground that the acts of
defendant and its associates amoumted to no more than an
announcement in advance that customers were expected

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
PrrNy, DAY and

CLARKE,

JJ., dissenting.

256 U. S.

to charge prices fixed by defendant upon penalty of refusal
to sell to an offending customer, observance of the request
by customers generally, and actual enforcement of the
penalty by refusing to sell to such customers as failed to
maintain the price; and hence that under the decision of
this court in United States v. Colgate & Co., 250 U. S. 300,
there was no ground of recovery under the Anti-Trust
Act.
I agree with the court that the Circuit Court of Appeals
misapprehended the effect of our decision in the case
cited, and that under rules laid down in Dr. Miles Medical
Co. v. Park & Sons Co., 220 U. S. 373, 399-400, 408; and
United States v. Schrader's Son, Inc., 252 U. S. 85, 99, the
trial judge was right in submitting the case to the jury.
Notwithstanding its conclusion that the Court of
Appeals erred in holding that a verdict ought to have been
directed in favor of defendant, the majority holds that
the judgment under review here ought to be affirmed,
because of supposed error in an instruction given to the
jury (a new trial having been waived by plaintiff on consenting to entry of final judgment for the Packing Company by the Circuit Court of Appeals under the practice
followed in Thomsen v. Cayser, 243 U. S. 66, 83).
The instruction to which error is attributed related to
the question whether a combination between defendant
and the wholesalers and jobbers for the purpose of maintaining resale prices had in fact been shown. After
referring to the method pursued by defendant in marketing "Old Dutch Cleanser," and stating that under the
law defendant could not be held liable under the first
count unless it was a party to a contract or combination or
conspiracy to fix and maintain prices; that defendant
denied it was a party to any such combination, contract,
or conspiracy, and insisted it had merely notified the
jobbing trade what prices it thought were the lowest at
which jobbers would resell its product at sufficient return

FREY & SON v. CUDAHY PACKING CO.
M&8

Psmy, DAY and

CLaKm, JJ., dissenting.

to make it worth their while to push the sale of such
product; that plaintiff admitted that, with reference to
most of the jobbers at least, there was no written and
signed agreement on the subject, and none couched in
any formal. or express terms; but that defendant from
time to time had issued circulars to the trade urging the
importance of maintaining "uniform and fair jobbing and
retail prices and trading provisions" and stating that
"any sales by jobbers at special prices would
demoralize prices and disturb the entire business in these
products," and that "uniformity and equality, as to
terms, delivery and price is essential. It is therefore
required of our distributing agents that they fully cooperate with us in this direction, as per terms, conditions and
prices laid down in our published General Sales List;"
and that upon bills sent to wholesalers by defendant there
was stamped a notice that "All your quotations, bids,
sales and invoices for Old Dutch Cleanser either to jobbers, semi-jobbers, retailers or consumers, should be at a
rate not lower than laid down in our published General
Sales List;" the trial judge proceeded, as to the particular
question whether in fact there was a combination, to
speak thus: "I can only say to you that if you shall find
that the defendant indicated a sales plan to the wholesalers and jobbers, which plan fixed the price below which
the wholesalers and jobbers were not to sell to retailers,
and you find defendant called this particular feature of
this plan to their attention on very many different occasions, and -you find the great majority of them not only
exprssing no dissent from such plan, but actually coopenaing in carrying it out by themselves selling at the
prices named, you may reasonably find from such fact
that there was an agreement or combination forbidden by
the Sherman Anti-Trust Act."
Passing for the moment the question whether this was
legally erroneous, I am unable to find in the record any

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Pi'mm, DAY and Cxmz, JJ., diauting.

256 U. &

basis for attributing error to the trial judge in respect to
it, because it was not made the subject of any proper
exception. The trial was litigiously contested, defendant
having taken no less than 157 exceptions, of which 20 were
directed to the charge given to the jury. Among them,
however, I can find none that challenges the proposition
embodied in the instruction now held to be erroneous,
recites either the words or the substance of that instruction, or otherwise fairly identifies it so as to bring it to the
attention of the trial judge. Defendant relies upon an

exception which reads as follows: "I also respectfully
except to so much of your Honor's charge as indicates that
an unlawful contract and combination or conspiracy or
understanding is shown where it appears that in the
absence of an express obligation some dealer, responding
to a suggestion from Cudahy Packing Company, may
have sold at the prices mentioned in its literature." To
which the judge responded: "All a question of fact for the
jury. All I can say on such questions is that the jury,
when they come into this jury box, I do not suppose,
leave their common sense behind."
There is nothing here to show that the attention of the
trial judge either was or ought to have been directed to
that part of his charge now held to be erroneous. The
exception alleged did not even faintly or approximately
express the tenor and effect of that instruction or of any
other that was given to the jury; much less did it fairly
and distinctly raise a question of law upon this or any
other point in the charge.
It is elementary that, in order to lay foundation to
review by writ of error the proceedings of the courts of
the United States in the trial of common-law actions, the
questions of law proposed to be reviewed must be raised by
specific, precise, direct, and unambiguous objections, so
taken as clearly to afford to the trial judge an opportunity
for reasing his rulings; and that a bill of exceptions not

FREY & SON P. CUDAHY PACKING CO.

SB.

PnwrT,

DAY

and CaRmn JJ., dissenting.

fulfilling this test will furnish no support for an assignment
of error. To quote from some of the decisions: "One
object of an exception is to call the attention of the circuit
judge to the precise point as to which it is supposed he has
erred, that he may then and there consider it, and give
new and different instructions to the jury, if in his judgment it should be proper to do so." Beater v. Taylor, 93

U. S. 46, 55. "While it is the duty of this court to review
the action of subordinate courts, justice to those courts
requires that their alleged errors should be called directly
to their attention, and that their action should not be
reversed upon questions which the astuteness of counsel in
this court has evolved from the record. It is not the
province of th eourt to retry these cases d nowe." Robimun & Co. v. BAt, 187 U. S. 41, 50. "It has been too
frequently held to require the extended citation of case
that an exception of this general character will not cover
specific objections, which in fairness to the court ought to
have been called to its attention, in order that if necessary, it could correct or modify then . . . In such
cases it is the duty of the objecting party to point out
specifically the part of the instructions regarded as erroneous." McDennwtt v. Severe, 202 U. S. 600, 610. "The
primary and essential function of an exception is to direct
the mind of the trial judge to a single and precise point in
which it is supposed that he has erred inlaw, so that he
may reconsider it and change his ruling if convinced
of error, and that injustice and mistrials due to inadvertent errors may thus be obviated. An exception, therefore,
furnishes no basis for reversal upon any ground other than
the one specifically called to the attention of the trial
court" United States v. United States Fiddity & Guarany Co., 236 U. S. 512, 529. See, also, GueriniStone Co.
v. CarlinConructionCo., 248 U. S. 334, 348; Filpponv.
AWbion Vein Slate Co., 250 U. S. 76,82.
Not only the trial judge, but the opposing party has

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Pin',f,

DAY

and

CLAnK,

JJ., dissenting.

256 U. S.

rights that one who objects to the course of the proceedings is bound to respect, if he seeks a review by writ of
error. To permit the result of a trial to be set at naught
because of an objection that has no proper relation to any
ruling made unless it be taken in a sense entirely variant
from the language expressed by objecting counsel, would
render the fair and orderly conduct of a trial impossible
and place a premium upon ambiguity and even trickery.
Upon the present record, it would be most unjust to the
plaintiff, as well as to the trial judge, to call upon the
latter, wearied as he must have been in the course of such
a trial, to recognize in the one hundred and fifty-fourth
objection a challenge of the legal accuracy of an instruction that he had expressed in laiguage so very different.
But, were the instruction duly excepted to, I am unable
to assent to the view that it was erroneous. The jury were
not told that from the facts recited, if believed, an agreement or combination forbidden by the act of Congress
necessarily resulted, but only that from those facts,
together with other and undisputed. facts that were in
evidence, they reasonably might find there was such an
agreement or combination. It is settled beyond controversy that an agreement in order to be a violation of the
act need not be expressed, but may be "implied from a
course of dealing or other circumstances" (United States
v. Schrader's Sons, Inc., 252 U. S. 85, 99). And, while
naturally it influences the action of the participants, it of
course need not be such as to control them in a legal sense.
From the very fact that it is a violation of the law it
cannot be legally binding; and it is only as a defacto agreement, or understanding, or combination, that the-conspiracy in restraint of trade need control the conduct of
the participants in order that it may constitute a violation
of the act.
Reading the criticized instruction in the light of the
other parts of the charge, it amounted to no more than

FREY & SON v. CUDAHY PACKING CO.
208.

Pmri,

DAY

217

and C&wz, JJ., dissenting.

telling the jury that if defendant had a sales plan that, if
assented to and carried into effect, would constitute a
fixing of prices in restraint of interstate trade and commerce, and the particulars of this plan were repeatedly
communicated by defendant to the many wholesalers and
jobbers with whom it had relations, and if the great
majority of them not only did not express dissent from the
plan but actually 6obperated in carrying it out by themselves adhering to its details; the jury reasonably might
infer that they did mutually give assent to the plan,
equivalent to an agreement or combination to pursue it.
In short, that upon finding many persons, actuated by a
common motive, exchanging communications between
themselves respecting a plan of conduct and acting in
concert in precise accordance with the plan, the jury
might find that they had agreed or combined to act as in
fact they did act; that their simultaneous pursuit of
an identical programme was not a miraculous coincidence,
but was the result of an agreement or combination to act
together for a common end.
The opinion states no ground upon which the instruction is held to be erroneous; the elaborate brief submitted
n behalf of the Packing Company specifies no criticism
upon it; and I am unable to discern adequate reason for
condemning it. It suggested a perfectly natural and
legitimate inference that might be drawn by the jury
from the facts in evidence; having included in the recital
the very same facts and circumstances, indeed, upon
which this court now unanimously holds that the case was
for the jury. Concerted action is of the essence of a
conspiracy (Peiznev. United States, 148 U. S. 197, 203);
and it is "hornbook law" that where concerted action is
found to exist following an interchange of communication
between the actors, it gives ground for a reasonable inference of an agreement to act in concert. Just as the
mechanism of a watch affords evidence of a design, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Pnww,

DAY

and CLai.xz, JJ., dissenting.

256 U. S.

hence of a designer; so a systematic course of action,
pursued at one and the same time by many persons and
affecting their mutual interests, raises a fair inference
of an agreement between them to pursue that corse of
action. Juries in conspiracy cases are instructed to this
effect every day, without disapproval; and it seems to me
the permitted inference is in accord with common sense
and the ordinary rules by which men's motives and secret
understandings are judged from their acts.
1 find nothing in the Colgate & Co. decision to support a
criticism of the judge's instruction. There the indictment,
under the interpretation adopted by the trial court and
necessarily accepted by us, failed to charge the making of
any agreement, either express or implied, that imported an
obligation to observe specified resale prices. This was the
very ground of our decision, as was pointed out in the case
of Schrader's Son, Inc., 252 U. S. 99. Here the state of
the evidence, as this entire court now holds, required the
trial court to submit to the jury the question of fact
whether an agreement to observe the specified resale
prices was to be inferred from the course of dealing and
other circumstances. The-trial judge fairly summarized
the pertinent facts and circumstances disclosed by the
record regarding the course of dealing between the parties,
from which the alleged agreement, combination, or
conspiracy in restraint or trade might or might not be
inferred, and then, in the clause now criticized, submitted
to the jury the question of fact whether one should be
inferred. I am unable to see in what respect he failed to
conform to correct practice and the decisions of this court;
or how, if his instruction was erroneous, a trial judge can
correctly submit to a jury the question whether, from a
course of dealing and other circumstances, an agreement
to fix prices in restraint of trade shall be found.
The circumstances from which the trial judge permitted
an inference of conspiracy to be drawn seem to me stronger

FREY & SON v. CUDAHY PACKING CO.
2W.

Prm,

DAY

219

and CL&vm, JJ., dissenting.

than those held sufficient by this court in Thomsen v.
Cayw, 243 U. S. 66, 84, where there was no direct proof
of the terms of any cdnference or agreement participated
in by the defendants, and the principal evidence consisted
of circulars isued and a concerted course of dealing under
which certain steamship owners operated their vessels in
the trade from New York to South African ports without
competing with one another; upon the strength of which
the court rejected the suggestion that the circulars and
the concerted course of dealing under them were accidental and without premeditation followed by unity in
execution. So in Eastern States Retail Lumber Dealers'
Asciation v. United States, 234 U. S. 600, 607-609, 612,
there was no express agreement among the retailers to
refrain from dealing with the listed wholesalers, nor any
penalty for failing to do so. But the court found, in the
systematic and periodical circulation of certain confidential information, commonly called black-lists, intended
to ,guide the action of the recipients and cause them to
withhold patronage from the listed concerns, sufficient
evidence of a conspiracy in restraint of trade; saying,
p. 612: "It is said that in order to show a combination or
conspiracy within the Sherman Act some agreement must
be shown under which the concerted action is taken. It is
elementary, however, that conspiracies are seldom capable
of proof by direct testimony and may be inferred from the
things actually done, and when in this case by concerted
action the names of wholesalers who were reported as
having made sales to consumers were periodically reported to the other members of the associations, the
conspiracy to accomplish that which was the natural
consequence of such action may be readily inferred."
Here the character of the communications was different;
but as evidence, when taken in connection with the con-

certed action that followed, they have the same tendency
to show a conspiracy.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Order.

256 U. S.

Authorities easily might be multipled, but it is unnecessary. Convinced that the ruling now made, if adhered to,
will seriously hamper the courts of the United States in
carring into effect the prohibition of Congress against
combinations in restraint of interstate trade, I respectfully dissent from the opinion and judgment of the court.

I MR. JUsTICE DAY and Ma. JUSTICE CLARKE concu in
this dissent.

STATE OF NORTH DAKOTA v. STATE OF

MINNESOTA.
IN EQurY.
No. 14, OriginaL Argued January 3, 4, 1921.--Orde eaed April 18,
1921.

Order restoring the case to the docket, direcg the taking of supplemental proofs and suggesting the oonsolidaWn of this cause with
another between the States of South Dakota and Minnesota.

Mr. M. H. Boutelle, with whom Mr. Wiliam Langer, Attorney General of the State of North Dakota, Mr. John
Lind, and Mr. I. C. Pinkney were on brief, for complanant.
Mr. John E. Palmer and Mr. Egbert S. Oakley, with
whom Mr. Clifford L. Hi7lon, Attorney General of the
State of Minnesota, and Mr. Monlrev
J. Brown were on
the brief, for defendant.
ORDER. To afford an opportunity for the taking of
supplemental proof deemed by the court necessary to
an adequate consideration and disposition of the caue,

