ATCHISON, T. & S. F. RY. v. UNITED STATES.

205

Opinion d the Cour.
ATCHISON, TOPEKA & SANTA FE RAILWAY
COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 256.

Sulnitted Marh 22, 1921.-Decided April 18, 1921.

1. In the absec e ofa previous arrangement with the carrier for reduced
rates under 5 22 of the Interstate Commerce Act, the United States,
by requesting and accepting interstate railway transportation for
oflicers awl men of the Army, obligates itself to pay the rates appliade generally for like transportaLon, less any lawful land grant

deduction P. 20
2. Where the only through interstate tariff rate between two places is
the imividua rate, through transportation of a party should be
charged at that rate and cannot lawfully be charged less by combining a party rate applicable to a part of the distance only with the

individual rate applicable to the remainder. P. 206.
3. The through, individual rate, in such case, hdd the "regular tariff
rate," within the meaning of a contract between the carrier and the

United States for the t

55 CL. Clms. 528, reesd

of solir.

P. 207.

AprAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims rejecting the claim of a railroad company for balances due
for transportation of soldiers for the United States. The
facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Almande

Briton and Mr. Gardier Lathrop for

appellant.
Mr. FrankDawie, Jr., Special Assistant to the Attorney
Genral, for the United States.
Mr. Juswcz VAN DvAwrim
the court.

delivered the opinion of

On several occasions in 1914 and 1915 the railway
company at the request of the United States furnished

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

transportation from one State to another for officers
and enlisted men in the United States Army. In each
instance a through individual rate from the. initial point
to the destination was in force, and also individual rates
to and from intermediate points. In no instance was
there a through party rate; but in all there was a party
rate for a part only of the distance. This situation was
shown in schedules regularly filed and posted under the
Interstate Commerce Act. In two instances the transportation was furnished under a contract calling for a
special reduced rate for the full trip, and in the others it
was furnished without any prior contract or special arrangement. Bills for the transportation,--computed in the
two instances at the contract rate, and in the others at
the through individual rate with appropriate land grant
deductions,-were presented to the accounting officers,
who allowed a part of what was claimed in each bill and
disallowed the balance.
The company then brought
this suit in the Court of Claims to recover the part disallowed and the court, without opinion, sustained the action of the accounting officers.
As to the transportation furnished without a prior
contract or special arrangement the accounting officers
proceeded on the theory that the collectible rate should
be determined by combining the party rate covering a
part only of the distance and the individual rate for the
remainder and then making any necessary land grant deductions, and not by taking the through individual rate,
less any deductions, arising from land grants, as claimed
by the company. In this we think the accounting officers
erred. The service requested and rendered was a through
service. The only rate applicable to a like service for
others was the through individual rate. By requesting
and accepting the service without some special arrangement for a different rate the United States assented to
and became obligated to pay that rate. Under a provision

ATCHISON, T. & S. F. RY. v. UNITED STATES.

205.

207

OPWM d the Cosut

in the Interstate Commerce Act the United States could
have arranged with the company for a different and reduced rate, if the company was so disposed (c. 382, ยง22,
25 Stat. 862); but that was not done. In the absence of
the company's duty to the United
such an at,
States was merely that of serving it at rates no higher than
those applied to individuals for like transportation, c. 278,
ยง5,14 Stat. 295, ess any lawful land grant deduction. No
individual could require that the party rate coveing
a part only of the distance and the individual rate for the
remainder be taken as the through rate, or as the lawful
rate for a through srvice. Neither could the United
States do so in the absence of some prior arrangement
to that effect. The situation as respects individuals is
aptly stated in Conference Ruling No. 268 of the Interstate Commerce Commission, which is as follows:
"The tariffs of certain camers provide a 10-party fare
from A to B, but no such fare from B to C. Upon inquiry
whether it would be legal to ticket a party of 10 from A to
Oon the basis of the party fare from A to B and the individual fares from B to C when such combination makes
less than the joint through individual fare from A to C:
Held, That while a party of 10 acting on their own initiative would have the right to use the party fare from A to
B and to purchase such transportation as is available
from B to C, the carriers may not ticket them through
from A to C on such a combination and thus defeat their
own published through fare."
The contract under which some of the transportation
was furnished called for a rate of $12.80 per man for the
full trip, unle that rate should be found to be in excess
of the "regular tariff rate," less land grant deductions,
in which event the "lower rate" was to govern. The accounting officers proceeded on the theory that the regular
tariff rate was to be determined by combining the party
rate covering a part only of the distance and the individual

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

SyUabus.

256 U. S.

rate for the remainder; and, finding that the rate so constructed, less a land grant deduction, was lower than the
contract rate, they rejected the latter and gave effect to
the new rate which they had constructed. They proceeded on a mistaken theory. The through individual
rate was the only regular tariff rate which was applicable.
It, less any land grant deduction, should have been compared with the contract rate ($12.80), and whichever was
lower should have been treated as controlling.
The findings relating to the transportation under the
contract do not show what the through individual rate
was, and therefore the suit cannot be finally determined
here.
The judgment is accordingly reversed and the suit is
remanded to the Court of Claims with directions to reexamine the company's claim and award a judgment
conforming to the views herein expressed.
Judgment rezwae*

FREY & SON, INCORPORATED, v. CUDAHY
PACKLNG COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH

CIRCUIT.
No. 200.

Argued March 16, 1921.-Decided April 18, 1921.

1. When the Circuit Court of Appeals reverses a judgment of the
District Court in an action at law, and the defeated party brings the
case here by waiing his right to new trial and consenting to entry of

final judgment against him in the Circuit Court of Appeals, this court
must affirm if error necessitating reversal was assgned and reied
upon in that court even though the ground of the decision was different and untenable. P. 210. Thomwn v. Cayer, 243 U. S. 66.

