EX PARTE NATIONAL PARK BANK.
129.

Opinon of the Court.

complaint are wholly insufficient to raise the issue in
respect of arbitrary legislative action presented by Myles
Salt Co. v. Iberia Drainage Diutri 239 U. S. 478.
The petiionfor certiorariis denied and the writ of erroris

EX PARTE IN THE MATTER OF NATIONAL
PARK BANK OF NEW YORK, PETITIONER.
PEITMON FOR WRIT OF MANDAMUS.
No. 28, OrWinaL Argued March A

11.

-Dedded April 11, 1921.

1. The Circuit Court of Appeals is without power to reopen a es to

corect an allqged overot, after final pjudmt dispoirg of all
the isues and after expiration Of the term. P. 132.
2. Mandamus will not be granted to correct an error of a lower court
for which remedies by petitions for rehaing and for certiorari were

availabAe

THE

P.

&3

case is stated in the opixion.

Mr. Edwin V. Guinmn, with whom Mr. Lou F. Doyle,
Mr. I. H. Burney and Mr. R. W. Flournoy were on the
brid, for petitionme.
Mu. Jusec

Bwwuois delivered the opinion of the

court.
The National Park Bank of New York filed in this
court a petition for a writ of mandamus directed to the
United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. A rule to show cause was granted; and the case is
now here on the petition and the return.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

In order to satisfy a judgment against the Reid Cattle
Company the bank brought suit against it and the City
of Fort Worth, in the federal court for the Northern District of Texas, to have certain lands to which the city
held title declared property of the company and subject
to the payment of its debts. The lands comprised about
30,000 acres and had been deeded to the city by Baldridge.
He had received conveyances of all the lands except one
640-acre tract either directly or indirectly from the company; and it was alleged that all the lands including that
tract had been conveyed to him either in trust for the
company or in fraud of its creditors. The District Court,
finding that all the lands had been held in trust. for the
company arid that the city was not a purchaser for value
without notice, decreed that all the lands be subjected to
payment of the company's debts. Upon appeal by the
city the Circuit Court of Appeals found that the lands
had not been conveyed in trust for the company; but it
affirmed the decree in part and reversed it in part. 261
Fed. Rep. 817. The decree was affirmed so far as it related to lands conveyed -by the company by deed of
August 25, 1914, on the ground that such conveyance was
in fraud of creditors. The decree was reversed so far as it
related to lands conveyed by deed of the company dated
December 7, 1911, on the ground that this conveyance
left the company solvent. The opinion and the decree
omitted to make specific reference to the 640-acre tract,
the legal title to which had never been in the company
but had stood in the name of Davidson and had been
conveyed to Baldridge by deed of October 13, 1913.
The decision of the Court of Appeals was rendered
December 2, 1919. A motion for a rehearing of the whole
case was made and it contained, among other contentions,
a slight reference to the failure to dispose of the Da-idson
tract. That motion was overruled January 13, 1920.
No attempt was made to stay the mandate which issued

EX PARTE NATIONAL PARK BANK.
131.

Opinion of the Court.

in due course and was filed in the District Court February 2, 1920. The term of the Circuit Court of Appeals
did not end until September 1, 1920, but no further
application of any kind was made during that, term of
court. In November, 1920, after the city filed in the
District Court a motion for judgment on the mandate,
the bank applied to the Circuit Court of Appeals for
permission to file a motion in which it called attention
to the failure to pass specifically upon the claim to the
Davidson tract and contended that the decree entered at
the preceding term was, for that reason, not final and
should be modified. The Circuit Court of Appeals
denied leave to file the motion and this petition fcr a
writ of mandamus was then brought to require the Circuit Court of Appeals to enter a final judgment disposing
of the Davidson tract.
It is clear that the rule granted must be discharged.
The decree entered by the Circuit Court of Appeals was,
in the light of its opinion, a final one, and disposed of all
the issues before it. That court was powerless to modify
the decree after the expiration of the term at which it
was entered. If the omission in the decree had been
adequately called to the court's attention during the term
it would doubtless have corrected the error complained of;
or relief might have been sought in this court by a petition
for a writ of certiorari. The bank failed to avail itself of
remedies open to it. A petition for writ of mandamus
will not be granted under such circumstances. Ex parte
Riddle, 255 U. S. 450.
Rule discharge&
Petition dismissed.

