WHIPPLE v. MARTINSON.
40.

Syllabus.

Mr. Nathan Heard for Simplex Electric Heating Company, by special leave of court.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

In this case a writ of certiorari was granted by this
court on October 13, 1919. 250 U. S. 655. The case
involves an application for the registration of a trademark, which was refused by the Examiner in the Patent
Office, which decision was affirmed by the Commissioner
of Patents and his decision was affirmed by the Court of
Appeals of the District of Columbia. 49 App. D. C. 16.
This case is ruled by Nos. 139 and 113, just decided,
ante, 35. As the writ of certiorari in this case, for the
reasons stated in the opinion in No. 139, was improvidently
granted, it follows that the cause must be dismissed for
want of jurisdiction, and it is
So ordered.

STATE OF MINNESOTA ON THE RELATION OF
WHIPPLE v. MARTINSON, SHERIFF OF HENNEPIN COUNTY, MINNESOTA.
ERROR

TO

THE

SUPREME

COURT

OF

THE

STATE

OF

MINNESOTA.
No. 224.

Argued March 17, 1921.-Decided April 11, 1921.

1. Minnesota Laws, 1915, c. 260, regulating the administration, sale
and possession of morphine and other narcotic drugs, held consistent
with the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 45.
2. The presence in the law of a provision interpreted by the state
courts as forbidding physicians to furnish these drugs to drugaddicts otherwise than through prescriptions does not bring it into

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

256 U. S.

conflict with the federal "Anti-Narcotic" Revenue Act, not containing such restriction, since it does not prevent enforcement of the
federal act. P. 45.
144 Minnesota, 206, affirmed.

of error to review a judgment of the Supreme
Court of Minnesota, which affirmed an order of a trial
court of the State discharging a writ of habeas corpus sued
out by the relator, Whipple, for the purpose of testing the
validity of his sentence for violation of the state law concerning hypnotic drugs. The facts are stated in the
opinion.
WRIT

Mr. Thomas E. Latimer for plaintiff in error:
The purpose of the Harrison Narcotic Act is to regulate
the sale and distribution of narcotic drugs and limit the
dispensing of them to the general public to two means:
By and through physicians. This enables the federal
authorities to limit the use of these drugs to bona fide
treatments of the sick, either to relieve pain or to cure
those addicted to the use of one or more of these drugs.
By limiting the physicians to the practice of their profession only, Congress has taken full control of the sale and
disposition of these drugs and their disposal by physicians.
There is no phase of this question left for state legislation,
since Congress has made provision for the whole field of
narcotic sale and disposal from the importation to the
placing in the hands of the user and has developed an
elaborate system for enforcing the same.
Chapter 260, Laws, 1915, in so far as it conflicts with the
Harrison Act, is void, and especially is this true of ยง 2 of
-said state law wherein it is provided that a physician may
not treat a patient in accordance with the practice of his
profession if that patient be a drug addict.
The enforcement of this provision of the state law would
come in conflict with the enforcement of the Harrison'
Narcotic Act and would militate against its successful

WHIPPLE v. MARTINSON.
41.

Opinion of the Court.

operation, in that it would prevent proper treatment of
addicts by the gradual reduction method, in that if only
written prescriptions can be used the patient can no
longer be kept in ignorance of the quantity of the drug he
is consuming each day, and one of the essential elements
of the treatment is eliminated; and, further, where only
written prescriptions can be used, the addict can raise
the amount stated upon the prescription and thus overcome the treatment being given by the physician in order
to effect a cure.
Mr. James E. Markham, Assistant Attorney General of
the State of Minnesota, with whom Mr. Clifford L. Hilton,
Attorney General of the State of Minnesota, was on the
brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JusTcI

DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

The relator was convicted of a violation of a statute of
the State of Minnesota providing against the evils resulting from traffic in certain habit-forming narcotic drugs,
and regulating the administration, sale, and possession
thereof. Laws of Minn. 1915, c. 260.
The Minnesota statute in ยง 1 forbids the sale of morphine and certain other narcotic drugs, with the provision
that licensed pharmacists may fill orders for the same to a
consumer pursuant to the written prescription of a physician, which must be dated on the day on which it is signed,
and bear the signature and address of the physician, and
the name of the person for whose use it is intended. It
must be serially numbered, dated and filed in the prescription file of the compoupder, and retained there for
two years open for inspection by the authorities. Prescriptions may be filled but once, and no copy may be
given except to an officer of the law, and the drug must be
delivered in a container labeled with the serial number of

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

the prescription, with the date when filled and the name
of the person for whose use the medicine is intended, the
nam- of the physician and the name and address of the
dispenser. The administration, sale, or disposal of the
drugs by a legally licensed physician is permitted when
made to a patient on whom he is in professional attendance. The physician must subscribe the name and
address of the patient, the date of the sale or disposal, and
the amount of the drug transferred, which must be delivered in a container labeled as required by the statute.
Section 2 provides: "It shall be unlawful for any physician or dentist to furnish to or prescribe for the use of
any habitual user of the same any of the substances
enumerated in Section 1 of this act; provided that the
provisions of this section shall not be construed.to prevent
any legally licensed physician from prescribing in good
faith for the use of any patient under his care, for the
treatment of a drug habit such substances as he may
deem necessary for such treatment; provided that such
prescriptions are given in good faith for the treatment of
such habit."
The trial court construed this section of the statute as
making it unlawful for a physician to furnish the drugs to
habitual users out of stocks kept on hand by himself.
And such was the offence of which the relator was convicted.
This construction of the section, and the conviction
and sentence were sustained by the Supreme Court of
Minnesota. 143 Minnesota, 403. Thereupon the relator
sued out a writ of habeas corpus in the District Court of
Hennepin County, Minnesota, which writ was discharged,
and the order was affirmed on appeal to the Supreme
Court of Minnesota. 144 Minnesota, 206. The case was
then brought here to review this judgment of the state
court upon writ of error.
The grounds of attack upon the statute are based upon

WHIPPLE v. MARTINSON.
41.

Opinion of the Court.

an alleged deprivation of federal rights, it being contended:
First, that the statute exceeds the authority of the State
in the exertion of its police power in that it undertakes to
regulate a lawful business in the manner prescribed in the
statute, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Second, that the statute conflicts with the terms and
provisions of the federal Harrison Anti-Narcotic Drug
Act, 38 Stat. 785, and is therefore beyond the power of
the State to enact.
There can be no question of the authority of the State
in the exercise of its police power to regulate the administration, sale, prescription and use of dangerous and
habit-forming drugs, such as are named in the statute.
The right to exercise this power is so manifest in the
interest of the public health and welfare, that it is unnecessary to enter upon a discussion of it beyond saying that
it is too firmly established to be successfully called in question.
As to the alleged inconsistency between the state
statute and the Harrison Anti-Narcotic Drug Act, the
state court held that there was no substantial conflict
between the two enactments. The validity of the Harrison
Act was sustained by this court in United States v. Doremus, 249 U. S. 86, as a valid exercise of the authority of
Congress under the power conferred by the Constitution
to levy excise taxes. The provisions of the statute regulating the sale, dispensing or prescribing of drugs were
held to bear a reasonable relation to the collection of the
taxes provided for, and to be valid although the statute
affected the conduct of a business which was subject to
regulation by the police power of the State.
It may be granted that the State has no power to enact
laws which will render nugatory a law of Congress enacted
to collect revenue under authority of constitutional enactments. (See Savage v. Jones, 225 U. S. 501; McDermott
v. Wisconsin, 228 U. S. 115.) But we agree with the state

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

256 U. S.

court that there is nothing in this statute which prevents enforcement of the revenue act in question. It is
true that the provisions regulating the sale, dispensation,
and disposition of the prohibited drugs are somewhat
different in the two acts. The prohibitory measures of
the federal statute do not apply to the disposition and
dispensation of drugs by physicians registered under the
act in the regular course of professional practice provided
records are kept for official inspection. Under the state
law physicians can only furnish prescriptions to addicts,
and may not dispense the drugs to such persons at pleasure
from stocks of their own.
There is certainly nothing in this state enactment, as
construed by the Supreme Court of Minnesota, which!
interferes with the enforcement of the federal revenue
law, and we agree with the state court that there is no
conflict between the enactments such as will prevent the
State from enforcing its own law upon the subject.
It follows that the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Minnesota must be
A frmed.

GALBRAITH v. VALLELY, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF REISWIG, BANKRUPT.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 234.

Argued March 18, 1921.-Decided April 11, 1921.

An assignee for the benefit of creditors turned over the assets to a
trustee appointed in a later bankruptcy proceeding, less certain
amounts which he claimed as compensation for services rendered
and disbursements made, as assignee, before the bankruptcy adjudi-

