OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

256 U. S.

ing the defendants' objection to the introduction in evidence of the Secretary's determination, and therefore
that the judgment must be reversed and the case remanded
for a new trial.

Judgnmt reversed.

EX PARTE IN THE MATTER OF THE STATE
OF NEW YORK ET AL., PETITIONERS.
ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF PROHIBITION AND/OR WRIT OF
MANDAMUS.
No. 25, Original.

Argued December 13, 14, 1920.-Decided June 1, 1921.

1. The power to issue a writ of prohibition to prevent a District Court
from exceeding its jurisdiction in admiralty is conferred upon this
court by Jud. Code, § 234, and may be exercised in a clear case even
where an ultimate remedy exists by appeal. Pp. 496, 503.
2. Under the Eleventh Amendment, an admiralty suit in personam
can not be brought against a State, without its consent, by an
individual, whether a citizen of the State or not. P. 497.
3. Whether a suit in admiralty is a suit against a State is determined,
not by the names of the titular parties, but by the essential nature
and effect of the proceeding as it appears from the entire record.
P. 500.
4. In suits in ren against privately owned steam tugs for injuries inflicted on libelants' barges, the tug-owners, appearing as claimants,
sought to implead the Superintendent of Public Works of the State of
New York, alleging that the damages complained of were occasioned
while the tugs were under charter to him officially and under his
operation, control and management, pursuant to the state law, and
praying that as such official he be cited into the suits to answer for
the damages and, if not found, that the goods and chattels of the
State used and controlled by him be attached. Monitions, issued
accordingly, were served on him in the district. Held, that these
proceedings against the Superintendent were in personam, and,
considering his functions under the state laws and the ultimate

EX PARTE STATE OF NEW YORK, NO. 1. 491
490.

Argument for Respondent.

incidence of the relief sought, were essentially proceedings against
the State, beyond the jurisdiction of the District Court in admiralty.
P. 501. Workman v. New York City, 179 U. S. 552, distinguished.

Rule absolute for a writ of prohibition.
PROHIBITION,

to restrain proceedings in admiralty in the

District Court. The case is stated in the opinion, post, 494.
Mr. Edward G. Griffin, with whom Mr. Charles D. Newton, Attorney General of the State of New York, and Mr.
George A. King, were on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Ellis H. Gidley for respondent:
This court has not granted writs of prohibition when
petitioner possessed another remedy. In re Cooper, 143
U. S. 472; Ex parte Gordon, 104 U. S. 515; In re New
York & Porto Rico S. S. Co., 155 U. S. 523, 531.
The District Court, having general jurisdiction over
the subject-matter and over the parties, should be allowed
to proceed to decision upon the merits, and if error has
been or shall be committed in entertaining the claimants'
contention against the charterer in the same suit with the
libel against the ship, it may be later corrected on appeal.
See In re Fassett, 142 U. S. 479, 484; Moran v. Sturges,
154 U. S. 256, 286; Ex parte Detroit River Ferry Co.,
104 U. S. 519; Ex parte Hagar, 104 U. S. 520; In re Rice,
155 U. S. 396; In re Huguley Manufacturing Co., 184
U. S. 297; Alexander v. Crollott, 199 U. S. 580; Ex parte
Oklahoma, 220 U. S. 191, 208, 209.
The Superintendent of Public Works is subject to the
exercise of admiralty jurisdiction. The District Court
unquestionably has control of the res, as both tugs were
within the territorial jurisdiction when arrested. They
were subject to maritime liens in favor of the libelants.
Likewise the Superintendent was within the territorial
jurisdiction when its process, issued conformably to' Rule
59, was served personally upon him. Moreover, it was

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Respondent.

256 U. S.

alleged in the petitions filed by claimants that the Superintendent had and maintained various property under his
control and direction within the district. Therefore, the
only question is, whether, having such control of the
subject-matter, vessels and parties by due and proper
exercise of its admiralty process, the District Court might
also exercise its admiralty jurisdiction against the Superintendent.
The application of the provisions of Rule 59 to these
causes does not change their admiralty characteristics
and does not deprive the District Court of jurisdiction.
The proceedings became pure actions in. rem, sui generis,
distinctly maritime in nature, and we submit that the contrary assertion is neither based on fact nor supported b)y
law.
The Attorney General argues that inasmuch as the res
are not now under charter to, or in the possession of,
the State, there is no basis in such a claim in personam
against the State. It should be sufficient reply to say that
such argument neglects not only the creation by disaster
of a ju8 in re enforceable in admiralty by process in rem,
The John G. Stevens, 170 U. S. 113, 117, and cases cited;
but likewise takes no thought of the liability of the charterer to return the vessel to the owner free from lien. The
Barnstable, 181 U. S. 464.
These are not, under any consideration, actions at law
or in equity falling within the purview of the Eleventh
Amendment. Admiralty suits are neither suits at law
nor in equity, but are spoken of in contradistinction to
both. 3 Story, Constitution, § 1683, original ed. Admiralty actions are sui generis, and are not within the term
civil suits, thereby meaning suits of a civil nature at
common law or in equity. United States v. Bright, Fed.
Cas. No. 14,647; Atkins v. DisintegratingCo., 18 Wall. 272.
The prerequisite in admiralty to the right to resort to
a libel in personam is the existence of a cause of action,

EX PARTE STATE OF NEW YORK, NO. 1. 493
490.

Argument for Respondent.

maritime in its nature. Workman v. New York City, 179
U. S. 552, 573. Further, a libel in personam may be
maintained for any cause within the jurisdiction of an
admiralty court, wherever a monition can be served upon
the libelee or an attachment made of any personal property or credits of his. In re Louisville Underwriters, 134
U. S. 488, 490. Governor of Georgia v. Madrazo, 1 Pet. 110,
and Ex parte Madrazzo, 7 Pet. 627, distinguished.
The doctrine laid down by this court in the case of
Workman v. New York City, supra, is wholly decisive of
the issue here, for no distinction in the applicability of the
rule there laid down was made between corporations,
municipal or sovereign; the National Government alone
was excepted therefrom.
. These are not suits against the State; and, in any event,
the question whether they are belongs to the merits rather
than to the jurisdiction. Scully v. Bird, 209 U. S. 481;
Illinois Central R. R. Co. v. Adams, 180 U. S. 28.
The cases in which immunity from process has been
heretofore claimed and granted on the ground of sovereignty have no application. They were either-(1)
actions brought directly against vessels owned or maintained as the property of a sovereign power and at the
time of action possessed by it or maintained under its
control, or (2) against vessels in the possession of the
National Government or vessels of a friendly foreign
sdvereign. The principle of immunity to vessels in the
possession of the National Government was first declared
'im The Siren, 7 Wall. 152, and again in The Davis, 10 Wall.
15.' Both of those cases nevertheless held that the liens
in question were capable of enforcement therein because
the possession of the Government was not disturbed in so
doing. See Workman v. New York City, 179 U. S. 552, 573.
The granting of immunity from process to vessels of a
friendly foreign sovereign power apparently has its basis in
the decision of The Exchange, 7 Cranch, 116, in which it was

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

held that a public armed vessel in the service of a sovereign at peace with the United States is not within the
ordinary jurisdiction of the admiralty court, such privilege being based upon international courtesy. See The
Maipo, 252 Fedt Rep. 627; The Roseric,254 Fed. Rep. 154;
The Pampa, 245 Fed. Rep. 137.
Nowhere is it suggested that the courtesy accorded
vessels of the National Government or of a friendly foreign power can be extended to include one of the several
States of the United States. If it should be thought that
such doctrine ahould be so extended, it would still be
inapplicable here, where no possession of the re8 by the
State or by a state officer could be disturbed by these
proceedings in rern; and the vessels were not, at the time
of seizure, owned, maintained or possessed by the State.
Moreover, a further decisive objection lies in the absence of
complete sovereignty in the State of New York. Sovereignty in its essence means supreme political authority.
The State of New York may not impose its local law
upon the admiralty jurisdiction. Workman v. New York
City, 179 U. S. 552, 557; Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen,
244 U. S. 205, 215, 216; The Lottawanna, 21 Wall. 558.
See also Union Fish Co. v. Erickson, 248 U. S. 308.
As between the owners and the charterer, liability for
damage caused by negligence of the officers and crew under
the dominion of the charterer rests with the charterer.
The State must be presumed to have contemplated the
system of maritime law under which the charters were
made.
Justice commends the unlimited application of the
provisions of Admiralty Rule 59.
MR. JusTicE, PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.

Three separate libels in rem were filed in the United
States District Court for the Western District of New

EX PARTE STATE OF NEW YORK, NO. 1.
490.

495

Opinion of the Court.

York: two against the Steam Tug Charlotte, her engines,
boilers, machinery, etc., by one Dolloff and one Wagner
respectively, both residents and presumably citizens of
the State of New York, to severally recover for damages
alleged to have been caused to certain canal boats owned
by them while navigated upon the Erie Canal in tow of
the Charlotte; the other against the Steam Tug Henry
Koerber, Jr., her boilers, engines, tackle, etc., by Murray
Transportation Company, a corporation of the State of
New York, bailee of a certain coal barge, to recover
damages alleged to have been received by the barge while
navigated upon the Erie Canal in tow of the Koerber. In
each case the tug was claimed by Frank F. Fix and Charles
Fix, partners in business under the name of Fix Brothers,
of Buffalo, New York, and released from arrest on the
filing of sai-isfactory stipulations. Claimants filed answers
to the several libels, and at the same time filed petitions
under Admiralty Rule 59 (new Rule 56), setting up in
each case that at the time of the. respective disasters and
damage complained of the tugs were under charter by
claimants to Edward S. Walsh, Superintendent of Public
Works of the State of New York, who had entered into
such charter parties under authority reposed in him by
an act of the Legislature of the State of New York, being
e. 264 of the Laws of 1919, and had the tugs under his
operation, control, and management; that if decrees
should be ordered in the respective causes against the
tugs the claimants, because of their ownership of the
vessels, would be called upon for payment, and thus
would be mulcted in damages for the disasters, to which
they were total strangers; and that by reason of these
facts Edward S. Walsh, Superintendent of Public Works
of the State of New York, ought to be proceeded against
in the same suits for such damages in accordance with
the rule. The District Court, pursuant to the prayer
of these petitions, caused monitions to be issued in all

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

three cases against Edward S. Walsh, Superintendent of
Public Works, citing him to appear and answer, and, in
case he could not be found, that "the goods and chattels
of the State of New York used and controlled by him "
should be attached. The monitions were served upon
Walsh within the jurisdiction of the court.
The Attorney General of the State appeared in all
three cases specially in behalf of the State and the People
thereof, and of Walsh, and filed a suggestion that the
court was without jurisdiction to proceed against Walsh
as Superintendent of Public Works for the reason that, as
appeared upon the face of the proceedings, they were
suits against the State of New York in which the State
had not consented to be sued. The District Court denied
motions to dismiss the monitions (The Henry Koerber, Jr.,
268 Fed. Rep. 561), whereupon the Attorney General,
on behalf of the State and the People thereof, and of
Walsh as Superintendent and individually, under leave
granted, filed in this court a petition for writs of prohibition and mandamus. An order to show cause was
issued, to which the District Judge made a return, and
upon this and the proceedings in the District Court the
matter has been argued.
The record shows that the charters had expired according to their terms, and the tugs were in possession
of the claimants, neither the State nor Walsh having. any
claim upon or interest in them. At no time has any res
belonging to the State or to Walsh, or in which they
claim any interest, been attached or brought under the
jurisdiction of the District Court. Nor is any relief asked
against Air. Walsh individually; the proceedings against
him being strictly in his capacity as a public officer.
The power to issue writs of prohibition to the district
courts when proceeding as courts of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction is specifically conferred upon this court
by § 234, Judicial Code (Act of March 3, 1911, c. 231, 36

EX PARTE STATE OF NEW YORK, NO. 1. 497
490.

Opinion of the Court.

Stat. 1087, 1156). And the fact that the objection to the
jurisdiction of the court below might be raised by an appeal from the final decree is not in all cases a valid objection to the issuance of a prohibition at the outset, where
a court of admiralty assumes to take cognizance of
matters over which it has no lawful jurisdiction. In re
Cooper, 143 U. S. 472, 495.
That a State may not be sued without its consent is a
fundamental rule of jurisprudence having so important a
bearing upon the construction of the Constitution of the
United States that it has become established by repeated
decisions of this court that the entire judicial power
granted by the Constitution does not embrace authority
to entertain a suit brought by private parties against a
State without consent given: not one brought by citizens
of another State, or by citizens or subjects of a foreign
State, because of the Eleventh Amendment; and not even
one brought by its own citizens, because of the fundamental rule of which the Amendment is but an exemplification. Beers v. Arkansas, 20 How. 527, 529; Railroad
Co. v. Tennessee, 101 U. S. 337, 339; Has v. Louisiana,
134 U. S. 1, 10-17; North Carolina v. Temple, 134 U. S.
22, 30; Fitts v. McGhee, 172 U. S. 516, 524; Palmer v.
Ohio, 248 U. S. 32, 34; Duhne v. New Jersey, 251 U. S. 311,
313.
Nor is the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction exempt
from the operation of the rule. It is true the Amendment speaks only of suits in law or equity; but this is
because, as was pointed out in Hans v. Louisiana,supra,
the Amendment was the outcome of a purpose to set aside
the effect of the decision of this court in Chisholm v.
Georgia, 2 Dall. 419, which happened to be a suit at law
brought against the State by a citizen of another State, the
decision turning upon the construction of that clause
of § 2 of Art. III of the Constitution establishing the
judicial power in cases in law and equity between a State

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

and citizens of another State; from which it naturally
came to pass that the language of the Amendment was
particularly phrased so as to reverse the construction
adopted in that case. In Hans V. Louieiana, supra (p.
15), the court demonstrated the impropriety of construing
the Amendment so as to leave it open for citizens to sue
their own State in the federal courts; and it seems to us
equally clear that it cannot with propriety be construed
to leave open a suit against a State in the admiralty jurisdiction by individuals, whether its own citizens or not.
Among the authorities to which we are referred is Mr.
Justice Story, who, in his commentaries on the Constitution (1st ed., § 1683; 5th ed., § 1689), stated that it had
been doubted whether the Amendment extended to cases
of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction where the proceeding was in rem and not in personam; and whose doubt
was supported by a declaration proceeding from Mr.
Justice Washington at the circuit, United States v.. Bright
(1809), Brightly, N. P. 19, 25, Note; 24 Fed. Cas. 1232,
1236, No. 14,647; 3 Hall's L. J. 197, 225. But the doubt
was based upon considerations that were set aside in the
reasoning adopted by this court in Hans v. Louisiana. In
Governor of Georgia v. Madrazo, 1 Pet. 110, 124, the question whether the Eleventh Amendment extended to proceedings in admiralty was alluded to, but found unnecessary to be decided, because, if it did not, the case was for
the original jurisdiction of this court and not of the district court in which it was brought; and it was held,
further, that the decree could not be sustained as a proceeding in rem, because the thing was not in possession
of the district court. Subsequently, in Ex parte Madrazzo,
7 Pet. 627, 632, an application was made to this court to
entertain a suit in admiralty against the State of Georgia,
and it was held that as there was no property in the custody of the court of admiralty, or brought within its
jurisdiction and in the possession of any private person,

EX PARTE STATE OF NEW YORK, NO. 1. 499
490.

Opinion of the Court.

the case was not one for the exercise of the admiralty
jurisdiction; and that, being a mere personal suit against a
State to recover proceeds in its possession, it could not
be entertained, since "no private person has a right to
commence an original suit in this court against a State."
Atkins v. Disintegrating Co., 18 Wall. 272, 300, et seq.,
and In re Louisville Underwriters, 134 U. S. 488, are aside
from the point, since they relate merely to a question
of statutory construction: whether the provision of § 11
of the Judiciary Act of 1789 (1 Stat. 79, c. 20; reonacted
in § 739 of the Revised Statutes, and in § 1 of Act of
March 3, 1875, c. 137, 18 Stat. 470), to the effect that no
civil suit should be brought against a person by original
process in any district other than that of which he was
an inhabitant or in which he should be found, applied to
suits in personam in admiralty so as to prevent the court
from acquiring jurisdiction over a corporation through
attachment of its goods or property in a district other
than that of its residence (in the former case), or by service of process upon its appointed agent (in the latter).
Much reliance is placed upon Workman v. New York
City, 179 U. S. 552. But that dealt with a question of
the substantive law of admiralty, not. the power to exercise jurisdiction over the person of defendant; and in
the opinion the court was careful to distinguish between
the immunity from jurisdiction attributable to a sovereign
upon grounds of policy, and immunity from liability in a
particular case. Thus (p. 566): "The contention is, although the corporation had general capacity to stand in
judgment, and was therefore subject to the process of a court
of admiralty, nevertheless the admiralty court would
afford no redress against the city for the tort complained
of, because under the local law," etc. "But the maritime
law affords no justification for this contention, and no
example is found in such law, where one who is subject to
suit and amenable to process is allowed to escape liability

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

for the commission of a maritime tort, upon the theory

relied upon."
We repeat, the immunity of a State from suit in personam in the admiralty brought by a private person without its consent, is clear.
As to what is to be deemed a suit against a State, the
early suggestion that the inhibition might be confined to
those in which the State was a party to the record (Osborn v. United States Bank, 9 Wheat. 738, 846, 850, 857)
has long since been abandoned, and it is now established
that the question is to be determined not by the mere
names of the titular parties but by the essential nature
and effect of the proceeding, as it appears from the entire
record. Louisianav. Jumel, 107 U. S. 711, 719, 720, 723,
727-728; Hagood v. Southern, 117 U. S. 52, 67, et seq.;
In re Ayers, 123 U. S. 443,487-492; Pennoyer v. McConnaughy, 140 U. S. 1, 10, et s 2.; Smith v. Reeves, 178
U. S. 436, 438-440; Murray v. Wilson Distilling Go., 213
U. S. 151, 168-170; Lankford v. Platte Iron Works Co.,
235 U. S. 461, 469.
Thus examined, the decided cases have fallen into two
principal classes, mentioned in Pennoyer v. McConnaughy,
140U. S.1,10: "The first class is where the suit is brought
against the officers of the State, as representing the State's
action and liability, thus making it, though not a party
to the record, the real party against which the judgment
will so operate as to compel it to specifically perform its
contracts [citing cases]. The other class is where a suit
is brought against defendants who, claiming to act as
officers of the State, and under the color of an unconstitutional statute, commit acts of wrong and injury to the
rights and property of the plaintiff acquired under a contract with the State. Such suit . . . is not, within
the meaning of the Eleventh Amendment, an action
against the State." The first class, in just reason, is not
confined to cases where the suit will operate so as to con-

EX PARTE STATE OF NEW YORK, NO. 1.
490.

501

Opinion of the Court.

pel the State specifically to perform its contracts, but extends to such as will require it to make pecuniary satisfaction for any liability. Smith v. Reeves, 178 U. S. 436, 439.
As has been shown, the proceedings against which
prohibition is here asked have no element of a proceeding
in rem, and are in the nature of an action in personam
against Mr. Walsh, not individually, but in his capacity
as Superintendent of Public Works of the State of New
York. The office is established and its duties prescribed
by the constitution of the State; Art. 5, § 3. He is
"charged with the execution of all laws relating to the
repair and navigation of the canals, and also of those
relating to the construction and improvement of the
canals," with exceptions not material. By c. 25_4 of the
Laws of 1919, effective May 3, the Superintendent is
authorized to provide such facilities as in his judgment
may be necessary for the towing of boats on the canals
of the State, the towing service to be furnished under such
rules and regulations as he shall adopt; and for that service he is authorized to impose and collect such fees as in
his judgment may seem fair and reasonable; the moneys
so collected to be deposited by him in the state treasury.
For the carrying into effect of this act the sum of $200,000
was appropriated. Under these provisions of law Mr.
Walsh, as Superintendent of Public Works, chartered
the tugs Henry Koerber, Jr., and Charlotte, in the name
and behalf of the People of the State of New York, for
periods beginning May 15 and ending at latest December
15, 1919; and it was under these charters that they were
being operated when the disasters occurred upon which
the libels are founded and the petitions under Rule 59
are based. The decrees sought would affect Mr. Walsh
in his official capacity, and not otherwise. They might
be satisfied out of any property of the State of New York
in his hands as Superintendent of Public Works, or made
a basis for charges upon the treasury of the State under

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

§ 46 of the Canal Law (Cons. L. 1909, p. 269), which provides that the commissioners of the canal fund may allow
claims for moneys paid by the Superintendent of Public
Works or other person or officer employed in the care,
management, superintendence, and repair of the canals,
for a judgment recovered against tIem or any of them
in any action instituted for an act done pursuant to the
provisions of the canal law. In either case their effect,
whether complete or not, would expend itself upon the
People of the State of New York in their public and corporate capacity. Section 47 of the Canal Law provides
for an action before the Court of Claims for certain kinds
of damages arising from the use or management of the
canals; but in terms it is provided that this "shall not
extend to claims arising from damages resulting from the
navigation of the canals." There is no suggestion that
the Superintendent was or is acting under color of an
unconstitutional law, or otherwise than in the due course
of his duty under the constitution and laws of the State
of New York. In the fullest sense, therefore, the proceedings are shown by the entire record to be in their
nature and effect suits brought by individuals against the
State of New York, and therefore-since no consent has
been given-beyond the jurisdiction of the courts of the
United States.
There is no substance in the contention that this result
enables the State of New York to impose its local law
upon the admiralty jurisdiction, to the detriment of the
characteristic symmetry and uniformity of the rules of
maritime law insisted upon in Workman v. New York City,
179 U. S. 552, 557-560; Southern Pacifi Co. v. Jensen,
244 U. S. 205, 215; Union Fish Co. v. Erickson, 248 U. S.
308, 313; Knickerbocker Ice Co. v. Stewart, 253 U. S. 149,
160. The symmetry and harmony maintained in those
cases consists in the uniform operation and effect of the
characteristic principles and rules of the maritime law

EX PARTE STATE OF NEW YORK, NO. 2.
490.

503

Syllabus.

as a body of substantive law operative alike upon all who
are subject to the jurisdiction of the admiralty, and binding upon other courts as well. Chelentis v. Luckenbach S.
S. Co., 247 U. S. 372, 382, 384. It is not inconsistent in
principle to accord to the States, which enjoy the prerogatives of sovereignty to the extent of being exempt
from litigation at the suit of individuals in all other

judicial tribunals, a like exemption in the courts of
admiralty and maritime jurisdiction.
The want of authority in the District Court to entertain these proceedings in personam under Rule 59 (now
56) brought by the claimants against "Mr. Walsh as
Superintendent of Public Works of the State of New
York is so clear, and the fact that the proceedings are
in essence suits against the State without its consent
is so evident, that instead of pernmitting them to run their
slow course to final decree, with inevitably futile result,
the writ of prohibition should be issued as prayed. Ex
park Simons, 247 U. S. 231, 239; Ex parte Peterson, 253
U. S. 300, 305.
Rule absolute for a writ of prohoition.

EX PARTE IN THE MATTER OF THE STATE OF
NEW YORK ET AL., OWNERS OF THE STEAM
TUG QUEEN CITY, PETITIONERS.
ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF PROHIBITION AND/OR WRIT
OF MANDAMUS.
No. 28, Original.

Argued December 14, 1920.-Deded June 1, 1921.

1. The facts that a vessel, libeled in the District Court, is the property

of a State, in its possession and control and employed in its public
governmental service, may be established, primafacie, at least, by

