UNITED STATES v. SMITH.
10.

Syllabus.

Mr. Oscar C. Anderson, with whom Mr. Charles J.
Kappler was on the brief, for the Omaha Tribe of Indians,
by special leave of court.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
This case was argued and submitted with the Chase
Case, No. 242, ante, 1. It is a suit by Mary Gilpin by
her next friend to have adjudged to her a right to an
allotment of lands in the Omaha Reservation, she being
an Omaha Indian. The right is based on the same treaties
and acts of Congress as those passed upon in the Chase
Case, and the effect of the Act of May 11, 1912, repealing
the acts-that of 1882 and that of 1893.
The decree of the District Court was adverse to her
right, and this decree was affirmed by the Circuit Court of
Appeals. 261 Fed. Rep. 841.
For the reasons stated in the opinion in the Chase Case,
the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. L. P. & J. A. SMITH.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 253. Argued March 22, 23, 1921.-Decided April 11, 1921.
1. In the performance of a contract with the United States for the
excavation of a channel to specified delths, under attached specifications describing the materials to be removed as clay, sand, gravel,
and boulders in unknown proportions, deposits consisting largely of
limestone were encountered, the removal of which entailed an
expense per cubic yard much exceeding the price fixed by the con-

12

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for the United States.

256 U. S.

tract for the materials therein specified. The engineer officer in
charge of the work arbitrarily classified these deposits with the
materials described by the specifications; ignored the protest of the
contractors and their request that a new price be fixed therefor; and
required them to proceed, under threats that, otherwise, they would
be declared in default and the work taken from them and completed and the cost recouped from the retained percentages of their
pay already earned and through legal proceedings against themselves
and their sureties. Held, that clauses in the contract making decisions of the officer as to quantity and quality of work final, requiring
the contractors to observe his instructions and denying any claim for
modification of the work not agreed to, or expressly required, in
writing,-were inapplicable, and that the contractors were entitled
to recover from the United States the cost.of excavating the material
not covered by the contract. P. 15.
2. Contractors with the United States held entitled to recover the
amount of a loss due to delays of the engineer in charge in locating
the places where they should work. P. 17.
54 Ct. Clms. 119, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment against the United States for
loss suffered by contractors in performing work not covered by their contract, under the arbitrary exaction of
the official in charge, and for loss due to his delay in locating the places where work was to be done. The facts are
stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Davis, with whom Mr.
Wilfred Hearn, Special Assistant-to the Attorney General,
was on the briefs, for the United States.
The provisions of the contract and specifications relied
on chiefly by the United States were as follows:
"The decision of the engineer officer in charge as to
quality and quantity shall be final."
"The order of the work will be determined by the U. S.
agent in charge, and his instructions shall be observed by
the contractor and his employees."
"In case of differences arising between the U. S. agent
in charge and the contractor in regard to the work or to

UNITED STATES v. SMITH.
11.

Argument for the United States.

the specifications, appeal may be made to the engineer
officer in charge."
"The material to be removed consists of clay,
sand,
gravel, and boulders, all in unknown proportions."
"No claim whatever shall at any time be made upon
the United States by the party or parties of the second
part for or on account of any extra work or material performed or furnished, or alleged to have been performed
or furnished, under or by virtue of this contract, and
not expressly bargained for and specifically included
therein, unless such extra work or materials shall have
been expressly required in writing by the party of the
first part or his successor, the prices and qusntities
thereof having been first agreed upon by the contracting parties and approved by the Chief of Engineers.)
The propositions advanced in argument were:
The work was not work provided for or required by
the terms of the contract, but extra and outside of the
contract.
No obligation to pay for extra work was created, because the provisions of the contract relating to the procurement of, and the payment for, extra work were not
complied with, and there was not a waiver of such provisions.
There was no breach of warranty by the United States
relating to a matter material and necessary to the performance of the contract.
The petition does not allege, neither has the court
found, that bad faith on the part of an officer of the
United States, in the exercise of the powers conferred
upon such officer, produced the injury of which claimants
complain.
The recovery for lost time was not justifiable. The
officer in charge was entitled to a reasonable time to
locate the places where dredging was to be done, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

the court below has not found that the delay was unreasonable or actuated by bad faith or fraud.
Mr. John E. Morley, with whom Mr. Rufus S. Day
and Mr. Roscoe M. Ewing were on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
April 14, 1919, the Court of Claims rendered a judgment
against the United States in favor of L. P. & J. A. Smith
(appellees, and we shall so refer to them) for the sum of
$119,304.27. To review that judgment this appeal is
prosecuted.
The appellees were a partnership doing business at
the times herein stated under the firm name of L. P. and
J. A. Smith.
In response to an advertisement and after the submission of proposals for work at the mouth of the Detroit
River, a contract in writing was entered into December 31,
1892, by 0. M. Poe, Colonel, Corps of Engineers, U. S.
Army, and appellees, by which the latter agreed to excavate a ship channel 20 and 21 feet deep, located in section 8 of the Detroit River, in accordance with specifications attached to the contract and made a part thereof.
They were to receive in full compensation for their work
the sum of 18 cents per cubic yard of excavation, scow
measure.
The material to be removed was specified to consist
"of clay, sand, gravel, and boulders, all in unknown proportions."
In the season of 1894 there was discovered a natural
bed of limestone rock within the boundaries of the excavation called for by the contract, which was not provided
for by the contract. For the removal of this limestone
the United States advertised for bids.

UNITED STATES v. SMITH.
11.

Opinion of the Court.

The L. P. & J. A. Smith Company, a corporation of
Ohio, and a successor in interest to L. P. and J. A. Smith,
bid on the work. The bid was accepted and a contract
was entered into November 9, 1894, by which that company agreed to remove the rock and other material at
the price of $2.24 per cubic yard of excavation, bank
measure. The contract was completed on or about June 16,
1895.
The contract of December 31, 1892, was extended from
time to time by Col. Lydecker, the engineer in charge of
the work, he having succeeded Colonel Poe, to ',ly 1,
1897. In that year he oriered appellees to work at particular spots toward the northerly end of section 8, at
certain designated shoals which had been excavated under
the contract of November 9, 1894, with the L. P. & J. A.
Smith Company.
And certain other officers, one an assistant engineer,
another a sub-inspector, in charge of the work, insisted
upon locating for appellees the points where dredging
was to be done. 1
The material or a large part of the material to be removed from those points was limestone rock or limestone
bed rock. Appellees protested and asked for the fixing
of an extra pride for doing the work. This was refused
and they were told that if they did not remove the same
they would be declared defaulting contractors; that the
work would be taken from them, done and charged to
them, and be paid for from the retained percentages for
work already performed, and, if the percentages were
not sufficient for that purpose, they, appellees, and their
bondsmen, would be proceeded against. No other officer
or officers so told appellees or insisted that all the material
to be removed was clay, sand, gravel, and boulders.1
A large part of the material, arbitrarily stated to be
clay, gravel, sand and boulders, was in fact limestone
1Additional

finding upon the mandate of this court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

rock and limestone bed rock, and was not the material
specified in the contract.
The quantity of material excavated as thus required,
and that required by the contract, the findings estimate
in detail and the cost of its excavation, in the sum of
$116,760.61, from which was deducted the sum of $5,174.64
that had been paid appellees, leaving due to them $111,585.97. It is found besides that delays caused by the
engineer in charge resulted in a loss to the appellees of
$7,718.30. For these two sums judgment was rendered.
The Court of Claims in a brief memorandum summarized the elements of liability against the United States,
concluding as follows: "We think the right of plaintiffs
[the appellees] to recover the price for the work done by
them is indisputable."
The United States adduces against the conclusion certain provisions of the specifications, the latter being, as
we have seen, part of the contract.
They are too long to quote or even summarize. They
are to the effect that the decision of the engineer officer
in charge as to quality and quantity of work was final
and that his instructions were required to be observed
by the contractor. And further that modifications of the
work in character and quality, whether of labor or material, were to be agreed to in writing and unless so agreed
to or expressly required in writing no claim should be made
therefor.
The contention overlooks the view of the contract
entertained by Colonel Lydecker and the uselessness of
soliciting or expecting any change by him. His conduct,
to use counsel's description, "though perhaps without
malice or bad faith in the tortious sense," was repellent
of appeal or of any alternative but submission with its
consequences. And we think, against the explicit declaration of the contract of the material to be excavated and
its price. The contract provided, in response to advertise-

UNITED STATFS v. SMITH.
11.

Opinion of the Court.

ments and in fulfillment of bids, for the excavation of a
ship channel 20 and 21 feet deep and that "the material
to be removed consists of clay, sand, gravel, and boulders,
all in unknown proportions." To these explicit provisions
and their contractual force we may add the judgment
and conduct of Colonel Poe, the first engineer officer in
charge of the work. He realized immediately when a
bed of limestone rock was encountered it was not the
material stated in the contract, and without hesitation
entered into another contract concerning it, and at a
price of significant contrast-18 cents per cubic yard,
scow measure, being the price of the first contract, $2.24
per cubic yard of excavation, bank measure, being the
price of the second contract.
We think the case is within the principle of Hollerbach
v. United States, 233 U. S. 165; Christie v. United States,
237 U. S. 234; United States v. Spearin, 248 U. S. 132,
and United States v. Atlantic Dredging Co., 253 U. S. 1.
We concur, therefore, with the declaration of the Court
of Claims that "the right " of the appellees "to recover
the price for the work done by them is indisputable,"
including the loss to them while waiting for the engineer
"to locate their work."
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTiE DAY and MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took
no part in the decision.

