OCTOBER TERM 1920.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

256 U.S.

UNITED) STATES v. HUTTO ET AL (NO. 1).
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF OKLAHOMA.
No. 601.

Argued April 11, 192l.-Decided June 1, 1921.

1. Revised Statutes, § 2078, declaring that "No person employed
in Indian affairs shall have any interest or concern in any trade
with the Indians, excqpt for, and on account of, the United States,"
and subjecting the offender to a pecuniary penalty and removal
from offuz includes transfctions with tribal Indians involving land
or other property in respect of which the Government has no interest
or control. P. 526.
2. This section defines an offense against the United States, within the
meaning of Crim. Code, 1 37, whether it be itself punishalle through
a criminal pmsecution or only through civil action for the penalty.
P. 528.
Revere

Tim case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Ledie C. GareU, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, for the United States.
Mr. Sam K. Su/ivam, with whom Mr. Henry S. Johnston
was on the brief, for defendants in error:
Under § 2124, Rev. Stats., which is synonymous with
52078 as to punishment, there is no other alternative than
a civil action by the United States to recover all penalties
accruing under offenses committed under the title of
Indians, including §2078. United Statwe v. Payne, 22
Fed. Rep. 426; In re Seagraves, 4 Oklahoma, 422..
Section 2078 applies only to Indians who are wards of
the Government and whose lands are restricted and does
not apply to Indians who have received patents to their
land. Bluejadkt v. Ewert, 265 Fed. Rep. 823, 829.
The indictment for conspiracy must charge some act

UNITED STATES v. HUTTO, NO. 1.
524.

Opinion of the Court.

that has been made a crime by the laws of the United
States, or an act made to defraud the United States, and
must state the act intended to be carried out by agreement of the parties so that it can be seen that the object
of the conspiracy was a crime against the United States
or to defraud the United States.
MR. JUSTICE Pr;EY delivered the opinion of the court.

This writ of error was brought under the Criminal
Appeals Act of March 2, 1907, c. 2564, 34 Stat. 1246, to
review a judgment of the District Court sustaining demurrers to an indictment under § 37, Criminal Code,
charging a conspiracy to violate § 2078, Rev. Stats.,
and overt acts done to effect the object of the conspiracy.
Section 37 prescribes: "If two or more persons conspire either to commit any offense against the United
States, or to defraud the United States in any manner or
for any purpose, and one or more of such parties do any
act to effect the object of the conspiracy, each of the
parties to such conspiracy shall be fined," etc.
Section 2078, Rev. Stats., reads thus: "No person
employed in Indian affairs shall have any interest or concern in any trade with the Indians, except for, and on
account of, the United States; and any person offending
herein, shall be liable to a penalty of five thousand dollars,
and shall be removed from his office."
The indictment alleges that A. Z. Hutto was a duly
appointed and qualified Indian farmer for the Tonkawa
Tribe of Indians, Ponca Reservation, Oklahoma, acting
as such, and that, under an act of Congress and the rules
and regulations promulgated by the Secretary of the
Interior, it was his duty to superintend and direct farming

and stock raising among said Tonkawa Tribe, to supervise
the leasing of Indian lands, and to appraise their value
for sale; that Hutto, J. R. White, Ray See, and J. R.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

Ricks feloniously conspired together that Hutto, while
so employed in Indian affairs, should have an interest and
concern in certain trades with the Indians not for or on
account of the United States, in violation of § 2078, Rev.
Stats., that is to say, that Hutto, while so employed,
should have an interest and concern in sales of land by
Indians of said tribe, and in the purchase of automobiles
and other commodities by said Indians, and that the
a~leged conspirators would and should persuade, induce,
procure, and cause certain Indians named, members of
said Tonkawa Tribe, to sell their lands, purchase automobiles and other commodities, borrow money and lend
money, and that said Hutto should have an interest and
profit in said sales, purchases, and loans. The alleged
overt acts need not be recited.
Defendants having filed separate demurrers, the -District Court at first sustained them upon the ground that
the acts prohibited in § 2078, Rev. Stats., are not a crime
aga the United States, but acts for which a penalty
is provided, to be collected only by a civil action, and
hence cannot form the basis of a criminal conspiracy in
violation of § 37, CrinL Code.
Upon a rehearing, the demurrers agEn were sustained,
but upon the ground that § 2078 is inapplicable to transactions involving lands or other property with respect
to which the Government has no interest or control, and
that no such interest or control was alleged in the indictment.
Taking up the second point first: It seems to us the
plain terms of § 2078 leave little room for discussion over
the proposition that the prohibition is not confined to
transactions involving lands or other property in respect
to which the Government has an interest or controL
In early days, under the power conferred upon Congress by the Constitution (.Art. I, § 8, cl. 3) to. regulate
commerce with the Indian tribes, some traffic was carried

UNITED STATES r. HUTTO, NO. 1.
524.

Opinion of the Court.

on with the Indians upon the Governmeint account.
As early as the year 1796 (c. 13, ,1 Stat. 452) ti President
was authorized to establish Indian trading posts on the
frontiers and in the Indian country; and the agent appointed, for each trading house was required to swear or
affirm in, his oath of office that he would not directly or
indirectly be concerned or interested in any trade, commerce, or barter with any Indian or Indians but on the
public account. This was a temporary measure, to
continue for two years and to the end of the next session
of Congress thereafter. Another act, to continue for
three years, was approved April 21, 1806 (c. 48, 2 Stat.
402), which required of the superintendent of Indian
trade an oath or affirmation faithfully to execute the
trust. committed to him, and that he would not directly
or indirectly be concerned or interested in any trade,
commerce, or barter but on the public account. A like
oath was required of the agent appointed for each trading
house. Still a third act for establishing trading houses
with the Indian tribes, approved March 2, 1811 (c. 30, 2
Stat. 652), required a similar form of oath from the
superintendent of Indian trade, and from each agent and
assistant agent. This act, like the others, was limited
to a brief duration.
Section 2078, Rev. Stats., was taken, with but slight
change, from § 14 of an Act of June 0, 1&34, c. 162, 4
Stat. 735, 738, entitled "An Act to provide for the organization of the department of Indian affairs," and designed
not for the carrying on of trade or barter with the Indians
on Government account, but to carry out treaty obligations, pay annuities and distribute merchandise to the
Indians as stipulated, furnish them with domestic animals, implements of husbandry, and rations as the President might think proper, provide interpreters, blacksmiths, farmers, mechanics, and teachers, as required by
treaty, and generally to promote friendly relations with

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opimon of the Court.

256 U. S.

the Indians and advance their welfare. In this connection
the provision of §14, "that no person employed in the
Indian department shall have any interest or concern in
any trade with the Indians, except for, and on account
of, the United States," manifestly had a significance extending quite beyond any pecuniary interest of the
United States in government trade or barter with the
Indians. In its original setting, and more emphatically
when grouped in the Revised Statutes with other provisions having to do with the supervision and management
of the affairs of the Indians, it manifestly was and is
designed to insure integrity of conduct on the part of all
persons employed in Indian affairs, and an impartial
attitude towards the Indians, by excluding from persons
so employed all motives of personal gain, so that the duty
of the United States as trustee for these dependent peoples,
recognized wards of the Government, might be performed
with a single regard for their interests appropriate to the
fiduciary relation. The purpose was to protect the
Indians from their own improvidence; relieve them from
temptations due to possible cupidity on the part of persons
coming into contact with them as representatives of the
United States; and thus to maintain the honor and credit
of the United States, rather than to subserve its pecuniary
interest.
The District Court erred in its construction of § 2078.
Nor can we sustain the other ground upon which it is
contended the demurrers were well taken. Section 37,
Criminal Code, is violated by a conspiracy" to commit any
offense against the United States " accompanied or
followed by an overt act done to effect the object of the
conspiracy. It does not in terms require that the contemplated offense shall of itself be a criminal offense;
nor does the nature of the subject-matter require this
construction. A combination of two or more persons by
concerted action to accomplish a purpose either criminal

UNITED STATES v. HUTTO, NO. 1.
524.

Opinion of the Co'jrt.

or otherwise unlawful comes within the accepted definition
of conspiracy. Pettibone v. United States, 148 U. S. 197,
203. The distinction between a conspiracy and the
contemplated offense that forms its object has often been
pointed out. United States v. Rabinowich, 238 U. S. 78,
85-86, and cases cited. And we deem it clear that a
conspiracy to commit any offense which by act of Congress
is prohibited in the interest of the public policy of the
United States, although not of itself made punishable
by criminal prosecution but only by suit for penalty, is
a conspiracy to commit an "offense against the United
States " within the meaning of § 37, Criminal Code, and,
provided there be the necessary overt act or acts, is
punishable under the terms of that section.
We have assumed, for the sake of the argument, that
under § 2078, Rev. Stats., the United States is confined
to the suit for penalty specifically mentioned; but we do
not so decide, and in our view the present case does not
require an expression of opinion upon that subject. See
United States v. Stevenson, 215 U. S. 190, 197, et seq.
Judgment retersed, and the cause remanded for further
proceedings in conformity with this opinion.

