OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

256 U. S.

in the grant determined by the Land Department and to
have the present selection sustained and given full effect,
if the grant was deficient when the temporary withdrawal was made.
Decree reversed.
STATE OF OKLAHOMA v. STATE OF TEXAS,
UNITED STATES, INTERVENER.
IN EQUITY.
No. 23, Original. Argued December 14, 15, 1920.-Decided April 11, 1921.
Oklahoma brought this suit against Texas to establish the boundary
between the two States where it follows the course of the Red River
from the 100th degree of west longitude to the easterly boundary
of Oklahoma, contending that, as fixed by the Treaty of February 22,
1819 (8 Stat. 252), the line followed the south bank of that river and
that this was finally and conclusively adjudicated in the case of
United States v. Texas, 162 U. S. 1, wherein the final decree declared,
"that the territory east of the 100th meridian of longitude, west
and south of the river now known as the North Fork of Red River,
and north of a line following westward, as prescribed by the treaty
of 1819 between the United States and Spain, the course, and along
the south bank, both of Red River and of the river now known as the
Prairie Dog Town Fork or South Fork of Red River until such line
meets the 100th meridian of longitude-which territory is sometimes
called Greer County--constitutes no part of the territory properly
included within or rightfully belonging to Texas at the time of the
admission of that State into the Union, and is not within the limits
nor under the jurisdiction of that State, but is subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States of America;" the United
States, intervening to protect proprietary interests claimed for itself
and for Indians in the bed of the river, supported these contentions
of Oklahoma; while Texas contended that the boundary was fixed
by the treaty at the middle of the main channel of the river, and
denied that its precise location, whether there or on the south bank.
was determined by the former proceeding, asserting that the issues
there respecting the river were confined to the question which of

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
70.

Counsel for the United States.

the two forks was the Red River of the treaty and to the ownership
of and jurisdiction over the disputed land lying between Them.
Held: (1) That, since there was jurisdiction over the subject-matter
and parties in the former case, and since the parties in the cases were
the same or in privity, (Oklahoma having succeeded in part, as to
governmental jurisdiction, to the position formerly held by the
United States), the decree, in locating the boundary line with respect
to the course of Red River and in construing the treaty as placing
it along the south bank, was conclusive in this case, if the matter
so decided was within the issues then proper to be decided, or was
presented and actually determined in the course of deciding those
issues. P. 86.
(2) That what was involved and determined in the former suit was
to be tested by an examination of the record and proceedings therein,
including the pleadings, the evidence submitted, the respective
contentions of the parties, and the findings and opinion of the court,
there being no occasion for resorting to extrinsic evidence. P 88.
(3) That the matter of the true location of the boundary between
the territory of the United States and.Texas where it followed the
Red River bordering upon Greer County, and the question whether
the boundary followed the middle or the south bank of the River,
were within the issues made by the pleadings, recognized by both
parties and the court, to be determined according to the true
effect and meaning of the Treaty of 1819; that, in elucidation,
the treaty, and much historical evidence of the negotiations that
led up to it, were introduced, discussed by counsel in argument,
and referred to in the opinion of the court; and that the matter was
directly determined and made a part of the final decree, and by
every applicable test was res judicata. P. 92.
(4) That the adjudication not only concluded the parties with respect
to that part of the boundary which borders upon what was called
Greer County, but settled the construction of the treaty (Art. 3)
as to the entire course of the Red River where it marks the boundary
between the territory then of the United States and that of the State
of Texas. P. 93.

Tm case is stated in the opinion, post 81. (See post, 602.)
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Garnett, with whom Mr.
W. W. Dyar and Mr. John A. Fain, Special Assistants

to the Attorney General, were on the brief, for the United
States, intervener.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Defendant.

256 U. S.

Mr. C. M. Cureton, Attorney General of the State of
Texas, and Mr. Thomas W. Gregory, with whom Mr. W.
A. Keeling, Mr. E. F. Smith, Mr. C. W. Taylor, Mr. G.
Carroll Todd and Mr. R. H. Ward were on the brief, for
defendant:
The Treaty of 1819, construed without the assistance
of other public documents or acts, fixes the boundary
along the mid-channel of Red River. This is confirmed
by the negotiations leading up to the treaty and the construction placed upon it by the United States, Oklahoma
and the Republic and State of Texas, as indicated by
their legislative, executive and judicial documents and
acts.
In so far as the decree in the Greer County case, United
States v. Texas, 162 U. S. 1, referred to the boundary line

of the Treaty of 1819 as following the south bank of Red
River, it was outside the issues litigated and is not conclusive upon the parties to this cause. The pleadings and
opinion in that case show that only two issues were presented for decision, the first being whether the 100th
meridian erroneously shown by Melish's Map, or the
true meridian, should govern, the second issue being
which of the two forks of Red River was, above their
point of junction, the Red River described in Art. 3 of
the Treaty of 1819.
Texas contended that the Melish Map should control,
and that, therefore, the boundary lay far east of the forks
of Red River, and that Texas was, therefore, entitled to
the land known as Greer County without reference to
whether the North or South Fork of Red River was the
river of the treaty. In the Greer County case the court
discusses this first issue on pages 29 to 42 of the opinion,
and deciding against the contention of Texas concludes
with the statement that the astronomically correct location
of the 100th meridian, and not the erroneous location of
that meridian shown by Melish's Map, governs.

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
70.

Argument for Defendant.

The court then immediately adds that, "the real question for solution is whether, as contended by the United
States, the line 'following the course of the Rio Roxo westward to the degree of longitude 100 west from London'
meets the 100th meridian at the point where Prairie Dog
Town Fork of Red River crosses that meridian, or
whether, as contended by the State, it goes northwestwardly up the North Fork of Red River until that river
crosses the 100th meridian many miles due north of the
initial monument established by the United States in
1857."
Conformably with its allegations, the amended bill
prayed to have determined "and put at rest questions
which now exist as to whether the Prairie Dog Town
fork or the North fork of Red River, as aforesaid, constitutes the true boundary line of the Treaty of 1819,
aforesaid, and whether the tract or parcel of land lying
and being between said two streams, and called by the
authorities of the State of Texas 'Greer County,' is
within the boundary and jurisdiction of the United States,
or of the State of Texas." It is therefore specifically
stated that one of the "questions which now -exist " is
which fork constituted the boundary line of the treaty,
and the other question is did the land lying between the
two forks belong to the United States or Texas.
The prayer asks to have the "true boundary line"
determined and settled, but, in the same sentence, this
general request is limited by the specific statement that
the issue is "whether the Prairie Dog Town fork or the
North fork of Red River, as aforesaid, constitutes the
true boundary line of the Treaty of 1819;" the general
request to have the true boundary line determined is,
therefore, qualified by the more specific prayer that the
court determine which of the two forks constitutes the
true boundary line.
But, if the prayer is given a broader meaning than that

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Defendant.

256 U. S.

which is here suggested as correct, it will not warrant a
decree going beyond the issue made by the pleadings.
No matter how broad the prayer for relief may be the
decree must conform to the case stated in the bill. Allen
v. Pullman's Palace Car Co., 139 U. S. 658, 662; Kent v.
Lake Superior Canal Co., 144 U. S. 75, 92; Cates v. Allen,
149 U. S. 451, 459; Barnes v. Chicago, Milwaukee & St.
Paul Ry., 122 U. S. 1.
The answer of Texas met the issue concerning the two
forks and set forth a number of reasons why the court
should find that the North Fork was the river of the
treaty. Certain acts of the plaintiff alleged to be a
recognition of the defendant's claim were pleaded, but
none of these acts raises any question concerning the
location of the treaty line upon Red River. The answer
concludes by asserting that "The Rio Roxo of the Treaty
is and was the North Fork of Red river, so called by the
complainant, and not the Kecheaquehono or South prong
of Red river, as styled by complainant," and that "Greer
County hath ever been the territory of Texas and of those
to whom Texas is successor," and asked for dismissal of
the bill.
The briefs filed in the Greer County case do not, any
more than the pleadings, raise any question concerning
the location of the treaty line upon Red River. There is,
therefore, no evidence that, although the pleadings did
not raise this issue, the parties nevertheless presented
the question to the court. On the contrary, the briefs show
that they did not do so. The lack of such proof and contention are important since the party invoking the doctrine of res judicata as to even an essential issue not involved in the pleadings has the burden of establishing
that the issue was in fact litigated. Slbierstein v. Silberstein, 218 N. Y. 525, 528.
The opinion in the Greer County case clearly recognizes
the nature of the issues presented by the pleadings and

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
70.

Argument for Defendant.

litigated by the partiee. It even states the exact acreage,
down to a fraction of an acre, contained in Greer County,
and says that the land involved is north of the line marked
on the map with the words "Boundary claimed by U. S."
On turning to the map referred to and appearing on page
22 of the opinion, it will be observed that the "Unassigned
Land " is thereon indicated as bounded on the south by
a line marked "Boundary claimed by U. S." and that
the land in dispute lies north of this line, as stated by the
court; also that the line marked "Boundary claimed by
U. S." is not on the south side of the river, but is either
on the north side of the river or in the middle of the
river.
In no p tof the lengthy opinion does the court discuss
the question whether the boundary line follows the midchannel or the south bank of Red River. The opinion
does not mention the south bank of Red River, but in
one place it assumes that the treaty placed Red River
within the United States (p. 37).
No reason is given in support of this conclusion. The
statement in regard to Red River is, in fact, merely
parenthetical, and is beside the point which the court
was considering, namely, whether the 100th meridian of
the boundary line was that marked upon Melish's Map
or was the true 100th meridian.
Not only was there no allegation or contention in the
pleadings, or in the briefs or in the opinion, in the Greer
County case to the effect that the south bank of Red River
was, or was not, the boundary, but it is confidently asserted that the words "south bank," in relation to Red
River, do not occur in the entire Greer County record
and proceedings except in the decree of the court.
The pleadings in the Greer County case excluded from
the court's consideration the question whether or not the
boundary line followed the south bank of Red River.
The present suit is to settle the title to the land lying

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Defendant.

256 U. S,

between the middle of Red River and its south bank;
the Greer County case was to determine which fork of
Red River was the river of the treaty and thereby settle
the title to the land between those forks.
The amended bill sums up the substance of the complaint by stating that the United States by the Treaty
of 1819, "Became entitled to possession of and jurisdiction over all that parcel or tract of land which lies between what has been herein designated as the Prairie
Dog Town Fork or Main Red River, and the North
Fork of Red River." The answer of Texas does not
question or deny complainant's above description of the
area in controversy. The opinion recognizes that the
lands in litigation were bounded by and lay between the
two forks of the river. The act of the Texas legislature
creating Greer County and fixing the river forks as boundaries was quoted in the opinion, and at another point
(p. 88) Justice Harlan refers to the fact that Texas had
"created the county of Greer with boundaries that include the whole of the territory in dispute."
The pleadings and opinion show that the land in dispute was throughout defined as bounded, except on the
west, by the two forks of Red River.
A river named as a boundary fixes the line in the main
channel of the stream unless other clauses are used which
extend or restrict the grant. This rule is applied to the
construction of private grants. Brown v. Huger, 21 How.
305, 320; Railroad Co. v. Schurmeir, 7 Wall. 272, 287.
It is also the rule applied to treaties or public enactments.
Where a navigable river is made the boundary between
States the line, in the absence of a contrary stipulation,
follows the middle of the main channel, or the Thalweg, of
the stream. Handly's Lessee v. Anthony, 5 Wheat. 373,
379; Iowa v. Illinois, 147 U. S. 1; Arkansas v. Tennessee,
246 U. S. 158; Minnesota v. Wisconsin, 252 U. S. 273.
By applying these rules of construction it is seen that

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
70.

Argument for Defendant.

in the Greer County case'the territory in controversy was
stated to be that lying between the center of the main
channel of the North Fork and the center of the main
channel of the South Fork of Red River and east of the
100th meridian.
The issue contained in the pleadings was therefore
made definite by description of the territory involved
in the dispute. This description eliminated from the
court's consideration any issue of whether the line fixed
by the Treaty of 1819 followed the center of the main
channel or the south bank of Red River, for the disputed
area did not extend south of the center of the main channel
of the South Fork of the river. To decree that the land
south of the center of this main channel belonged to the
United States was to overstep the limits of the case made
by the parties.
The petition of intervention fied by the United States
in this cause suggests that the court in the Greer County
case, after aivarding the land in controversy to the United
States, was required to "define and delimit with certainty
. . . both southern and the western boundaries." This
suggestion is based on the incorrect assumption that the
parties had asked the court to define and delimit the
boundaries of the disputed territory, whereas in fact the
parties had themselves defined this territory and had
agreed upon its limits as those of Greer County. Having
so agreed, the court was not only not required, but it was
not authorized, to enter a decree going beyond those limits.
When a suit is upon a demand different from that involved in a former suit between the same parties or their
privies, the decree in the former suit is conclusive only
in respect to matters put in issue and litigated in that
suit. Southern Pacific R. R. Co. v. United States, 168
U. S. 1, 48, 49; Cromwell v. County of Sac, 94 U. S. 351,
356; Russell v. Pace, 94 U. S. 606, 608, 609; Radford v.
Myers, 231 U, S. 725, 733.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Defendant.

256 U. S.

The doctrine of res judicata rests upon the fact of prior
litigation of the same question. Accordingly, when the
doctrine is invoked the court is called upon to decide
whether the matter alleged to be concluded was or was
not in fact litigated in the prior suit. In case of doubt
the court determines the scope of the matters previously
litigated by interpreting the decree which was entered,
in the light of the pleadings and of the opinion of the
court. National Foundry & Pipe Works v. Oconto Water
Co., 183 U. S. 216, 234. If the pleadings and the opinion
of the court show that any portions of the prior decree
went beyond the issues litigated the court in the subsequent suit limits the binding effect of this decree to the
questions which were actually presented to the court for
decision. Graham v. Railroad Co., 3 Wall. 704; Barnes v.
Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Ry., 122 U. S. 1; Vicksburg v. Henson, 231 U. S. 259.
The rule that the binding effect of a decree is limited
to the issues either framed by the pleadings or actually
litigated is not a mere rule of construction, but is a binding restriction upon the power of the court, rendering void
any judgment or any portion of a judgment rendered in
violation of the rule. Reynolds v. Stockton, 140 U. S. 254,
265, 266; Washington R. R. v. Bradleys, 10 Wall. 299,
303; Landon v. Clark, 221 Fed. Rep. 841; Mitchell v.
Insley, 33 Kansas, 654. The opinions of text writers and
the decisions of state and federal courts unanimously
support the rule that a decree or judgment is void in so
far 4s it purports to decide a point not in issue in the case
[citing many cases].
No special features in the Greer County case authorized a decree outside the scope of, the issues litigated.
The principle that "equity will do complete justice "
did not extend the scope of the issues. That principle
does not in any way blur the difference between matters
in issue and those not in issue. It applies only to the

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
70.

Argument for Defendant.

former, but it says that equity is not barred from giving
complete relief because part of the relief which it grants
might have been given by a court of law. United States
v. Union Pacifi Ry. Co., 160 U. S. 1, 50. Defendant
therefore points out that the principle cannot be applied
so as to enlarge or extend the issues made by the parties
in the Greer County case.
It should also be noted that in the Greer County case
this court was not exercising the usual form of equity
jurisdiction, but a jurisdiction based on the exercise of
sovereign authority and the maintenance of peace and
order within the territory involved. As an ordinary rule
courts of equity will not act to ascertain boundaries unless, in addition to confusion over the boundaries, there
is some peculiar equity suggested, such as fraud, multiplicity of suits, or such relationship between the parties
that it is incumbent upon one of them to preserve the
boundaries. Pomeroy's Equitable Remedies, 2nd ed.,
§§ 694-697.
This-court has not treated boundary disputes between
States as strictly a part of equity jurisdiction, but has
followed what seemed to be the nearest precedents and
framed its proceedings according to those adopted by
the English Court of Chancery where boundaries of political bodies were brought in question before it; in these
boundary disputes between States the court has followed
the rules of equity only when they appeared to serve the
ends of justice. Rhode Island v. Massachusetts, 14 Pet.
210, 256-258.
The declarations in the opinion cited are not such as
would lead this court to apply to the Greer County case
any equitable principle which would so operate as to conclude a sovereign State in respect of a boundary question
which was not in issue, which the State never argued
and was never called on to argue, and which was never
presented to the court, particularly in such a case as the

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Defendant.

256 U. S.

present, where farms and oil wells and improvements of
enormous value are involved, most of them hundreds of
miles from Greer County and all far removed therefrom.
The court in the earlier case did not have before it
the evidence bearing upon whether the boundary followed the mid-channel of Red River or its south bank.
In the present suit the court is called upon to determine the intention of the parties to the treaty with reference to the boundary line fixed along Red River, and light
upon their intention is sought from the negotiations leading up to the treaty and from the practical construction
which the parties have subsequently given to it. The Greer
County record is completely silent upon the latter point.
The negotiations leading up to the treaty must be
analyzed from the standpoint of their bearing upon the
final agreement reached with reference to the course
of the treaty line along Red River if they are to be of any
assistance in deciding the question now being litigated.
No such analysis was called for by the nature of the
issues to be determined in the Greer County case, and
the court's opinion clearly indicates that no such analysis
was made. The court in that case could hardly have been
more enlightened upon the question now in controversy
than it would have been if the proposals and counter
proposals of the parties to the negotiations had not been
presented in evidence.
This court has announced that the doctrine of res
judicata must be applied with caution. Vicksburg v. Henson, 231 U. S. 259.
In construing the decree rendered in the Greer County
case the words "along the south bank," contained therein,
should be eliminated from consideration because their
presence makes contradictory the two descriptions of
the land described in the decree, which in their absence
would otherwise agree. The words "Greer County "
have, all through this controversy and litigation, had a

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
70.

Opinion of the Court.

definite and distinct meaning, being a tract of land with
its south line resting in the middle of the main channel
of the Prairie Dog Fork or South Fork of Red River, as
shown by the field notes of the act of Texas creating Greer
County and set out in the opinion of this court in the
Greer County decision. When, therefore, the decree in
the Greer County case described the land awarded to the
United States as the territory "sometimes called Greer
County," it thereby described a tract of land different
from that described in the prior portion of the decree, in
which the line is described as "along the south bank."
Therefore, the decree is contradictory and becomes so by
virtue of the insertion of the words "along the south
bank." It is believed that these words were inserted in
the decree through inadvertence, and that they should
not be considered in construing the decree.
Mr. Joseph W. Bailey and Mr. A. H. Carrigan,for the
landowners, by special leave of court.
Mr. S. P. Freeling, Attorney General of the State of
Oklahoma, for complainant.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in equity in our original jurisdiction,
brought by the State of Oklahoma against the State of
Texas, to establish the true boundary line between those
States where it follows the course of the Red River from
the 100th degree of west longitude to the easterly boundary of Oklahoma. The bill avers that by the third
article of a treaty concluded February 22, 1819, and ratified and proclaimed February 22, 1821 (8 Stat. 252), between the United States of America and the King of
Spain, who had sovereignty over the territory now known
as Texas but then a part of Mexico, the boundary line

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

between the two countries where formed by the Red
River was established as following the south bank of that
stream; that after Mexico had become "ndependent, and
on January 12, 1828, a treaty was concluded, and on
April 5, 1832, ratified and proclaimed, between the United
States of America and the United Mexican States, by
which the validity of the Treaty of 1819 was confirmed
(8 Stat. 372); that in the year 1837 Texas was recognized
as an independent republic, no longer under the power
and jurisdiction of Mexico, and on April 25, 1838, a treaty
was concluded, and in the same year ratified and proclaimed, between the United States and th( Republic of
Texas, by which the boundary as thus established was
accepted by- that Republic as binding (8 Stat. 511); and
that under joint resolutions of Congress dated respectively
March 1 and December 29, 1845 (5 Stat. 797; 9 Stat. 108),
Texas was admitted into the Union as a State, with "the
territory properly included within, and .rightfully belonging to the Republic of Texas." That by Act of Congress
approved May 2, 1890, a temporary government was
provided for a part of the territory adjoining said boundary
on the north, now comprised in the State of Oklahoma,
under the name of the Territory of Oklahoma (c. 182, 26
Stat. 81), and that by §29 (p. 93) the remaining part was
designated as the Indian Territory; but that by §25 (p. 92),
in view of the existence of a controversy between the
United States and the State of Texas as to the ownership
of what was known as Greer County, described as "the
tract of land lying between the North and South Forks
of the Red River where the Indian Territory and the
State of Texas adjoin, east of the one hundredth degree
of longitude," it was provided that the act should not
apply to that county until the title thereto had been
adjudicated and determined to be in the United States;
and, in order to provide for a speedy and final judicial
determination of the controversy, the Attorney General

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
70.

Opinion of the Court.

was authorized and directed to commence in the name
and behalf of the United States and prosecute to a final
determination a suit in equity in this court against the
State of Texas; that accordingly, at the October Term,
1895 (1890), the Attorney General of the United States
filed in this court an original bill against the State of
Texas to determine whether the territory embraced
within the then County of Greer was in the State of Texas
or within the territory and exclusive jurisdiction of the
United States; that after a full hearing of said cause this
court found, decided, and decreed that the territory east
of the 100th meridian of longitude, west and south of
the river now known as the North Fork of Red River,
and north of a line following westward, as prescribed by
the Treaty of 1819, the course, and along the south bank,
both of Red River and of the river now known as the
Praiie Dog Town Fork or South Fork of Red River until such line meets the 100th meridian of longitude, constitutes no part of the territory properly included within
or rightfully belonging to Texas at the time of the admission of that State into the Union, and was not within the
limits nor under the jurisdiction of that State, but was
subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States
of America (162 U. S. 1, 90-91); and that afterwards,
under Act of Congress approved June 16, 1906, c. 3335,
34 Stat. 267, the inhabitants of the area constituting the
Territory of Oklahoma (including said Greer County)
and the Indian Territory were admitted into the Union
as the State of Oklahoma.
The State of Texas appeared in the present suit and
filed an answer denying that the Treaty of 1819 fixed the
boundary at the south bank of the Red River; asserting
on the contrary that the treaty, by its legal meaning and
effect, fixed it in the middle of the main channel of that
river; denying that the effect of the decree in the case
of United States v. Texas was to determine that the south

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

bank of Red River, or of the Prairie Dog Town Fork or
South Fork of that river, constituted the boundary between the United States and Texas at any point; and
setting up a counterclaim and other matters not necessary to be here repeated.
The United States, by leave of the court, intervened,
and by its petition of intervention set up an interest as
trustee of Indian allottees with respect to certain portions
of the bed of the Red River and as owner in its own right
of a large part of the bed and of numerous islands therein;
and supported the contentions of the State of Oklahoma as
to the location of the boundary line by the true construction of the Treaty of 1819 and as to the effect of the final
decree in United States v. Texas.
At the same time it was brought to the attention of the
court that because of the recent discovery and development of oil and gas deposits in the bed of the river adjacent to Wichita County, Texas, serious conflicts had
arisen between parties claiming title from the State of
Texas and others claiming title from the State of Oklahoma or under the mineral laws of the United States; and
that there was danger of the exhaustion of the deposits of
oil and ga 3 pending the determination of the questions at
issue between the parties to .the cause, and danger of
armed conflict between rival claimants under them; and
thereupon, on motion of the United States, concurred in
by the State of Oklahoma and consented to by the State
of Texas as to lands claimed in its proprietary capacity,
we appointed a receiver to take possession of that part
of the river bed lying between mid-channel and the south
bank, and within the disputed oil field.
Pending the receivership, by order of June 7, 1920,
made pursuant to the suggestion of the parties, we set
the cause down for hearing at the present term upon two
questions of law, with leave to take testimony pertinent
to the purpose. 253 U. S. 471.

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
70.

Opinion of the Court.

The testimony was taken and returned, a hearing has
been had, and the matter is now to be decided.
The questions are as follows: "(1) Is the decree of this
court in United States v. The State of Texas, 162 U. S. 1,
final and conclusive upon the parties to this cause in so
far as it declares that the Treaty of 1819 between the
United States and Spain fixed the boundary along the
south bank of Red River? (2) If said decree is not conclusive, then did the Treaty of 1819, construed in the
light of pertinent public documents and acts, fix the
boundary along the mid-channel of Red River or along
the south bank of said river?"
The first is a question of res judicata, and, obviously,
if it is answered in the affirmative, the second becomes
immaterial.
The general principle, applied in numerous decisions of
this court, and definitely accepted in Southern Pacific R.
R. Co. v. United States, 168 U. S. 1, 48-49, is, that a
question of fact or of law distinctly put in issue and directly determined by a court of competent jurisdiction
as a ground of recovery or defense in a suit or action between parties sui juris is conclusively settled by the final
judgment or decree therein so that it cannot be further
litigated in a subsequent suit between the same parties
or their privies, whether the second suit be for the same
or a different cause of action. As was declared by Mr.
Justice Harlan, speaking for the court in the case cited
(p. 49): "This general rule is demanded by the very object for which civil courts have been established, which
is to secure the peace and repose of society by the settlement of matters capable of judicial determination. Its
enforcement is essential to the maintenance of social order; for, the aid of judicial tribunals would not be invoked
for the vindication of rights of person and property, if,
as between parties and their privies, conclusiveness did
not attend the judgments of such tribunals in respect of

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

all matters properly put in issue and actually determined
by them."
In order to aid us in ascertaining whether the question
of boundary location now at issue was settled by the
decision and decree in the Greer County case, the parties
have stipulated that the entire record in that case, including pleadings, stipulations, testimony, briefs, anddocuments of every character, now on file in this court,
and the orders and decrees of the court therein, are to be
considered in evidence for all purposes. They have been
examined and considered accordingly.
The jurisdiction of the court over the subject-matter
of that suit-its original jurisdiction over a suit in equity
brought by the United States against one of the St .tes
to determine the boundary between such State and a
Territory of the United States-was put at issue by a
demurrer to the bill of complaint in that case, and decided in favor of the jurisdiction. United States v. Texas,
143 U. S. 621, 641, et seq. It was set at rest when followed by the making of a final decree. United States v.
Texas, 162 U. S.1, 90-91.
That the court had jurisdiction over the parties is obvious from the fact that the suit was brought in behalf of
the United States pursuant to an act of Congress (Act of
May 2, 1890, c. 182, § 25, 26 Stat. 81, 92), that a bill of
complaint and an amended bill were filed, to each of which
the State of Texas demurred, and also answered; and that
the United States filed a replication (162 U. S. 21-23),
and both parties introduced evidence and participated in
the hearing.
There is identity of parties between the former suit and
the present one, so far as concerns the proprietary interest
now set up by the United States. As to governmental
jurisdiction, the State of Oklahoma has succeeded in part
to the position formerly held by the United, States, and
therefore is in privity with it.

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
70.

Opinion of the Court.

The former decision was based upon final hearing, on
issue joined between the parties and upon evidence taken
by both; and, as stated, it resulted in a final decree (162
U. S. 90-91).
Therefore it remains only to consider whether the
"right, question, or fact" now in controversy-the location of the boundary line with respect to the course of the
Red River, and whether by the true construction of the
Treaty of 1819 its location is along the south bank or in
mid-channel-was put in issue and directly determined
in the former case. That the final decree purports to
determine it, is obvious from a reading of the language
employed (162 U. S. 90): "That the territory east of the
100th meridian of longitude, west and south of the river
now known as the North Fork of Red River, and north
of a line following westward, as prescribed by the treaty of
1819 between the United States aid Spain, the course, and
along the south bank, both of Red River and of the river now
known as the PrairieDog Town Fork or South Fork of Red
River until such line meets the 00th meridian of longitudewhich territory is sometimes called Greer County--constitutes no part of the territory properly included within
or rightfully belonging to Texas at the time of the admission of that State into the Union, and is not within
the limits nor under the jurisdiction of that State, but is
subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States
of America."
The literal meaning of this is not seriously disputed;
but it is insisted that, so far as it describes the boundary
line of the treaty as following the south bank of the river,
it was outside the issues litigated, and hence is not conclusive upon the parties to this cause--in effect, that in
construing the decree the words "along the south bank"
should be excluded from consideration. Clearly, the inclusion of those words amounted to a decision that the
correctness of that particular definition of the boundary

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

was within the issues in the cause. But we concede that,
in a subsequent suit upon a different cause of action, the
question whether the matter decided on the former occasion was within the issues then proper to be decided, or
was presented and actually determined in the course of
deciding those issues, is open to inquiry, and that, unless
it be answered in the affirmative, the matter is not res
judicata.
What was involved and determined in the former suit
is to be tested by an examination of the record and proceedings therein, including the pleadings, the evidence
submitted, the respective contentions of the parties, and
the findings and opinion of the court; there being no suggestion that this is a proper case for resorting to extrinsic
evidence. Russell v. Place, 94 U. S. 606, 608; Last Chance
Mining Co. v. Tyler Mining Co., 157 U. S. 683, 688, et
seq.; Baker v. Cummings, 181 U. S. 117, 124-130; National
Foundry & Pipe Works v. Oconto Water Supply Co., 183
U. S. 216, 234.
The Act of May 2, 1890, c. 182, 26 Stat. 81, 92, briefly
recited the existence of a controversy between the United
States and the State of Texas as to the ownership of the
land known as Greer County, and directed the Attorney
General to bring suit in this court in order that the rightful title to that land might be finally determined. Referring to this, and to the history and nature of the controversy, it is contended that the pleadings should be so
construed as to confine the issue to the identification of
one of the forks of the Red River with the Red River of
the treaty. It is true that the principal matter in dispute
was the claim of the United States to o~rnership of the
tract of land lying between the forks and bounded on the
west by the 100th meridian. But the bill and the amended
bill, after reciting Article 3 of the treaty defining the
boundary line between the United States and Spain, by
which both parties to the cause were bound, and recount-

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
70.

Opinion of the Court.

ing the history of the controversy, concluded with a prayer
that the bill might be filed and Texas made a defendant
thereto, "to the end and for the purpose of determining
and settling the true boundary line between the United
States and the State of Texas, and to determine and put
at rest questions which now exist as to whether the Prairie
Dog Town Fork or the North Fork of Red River, as
aforesaid, constitutes the true boundary line of the Treaty
of 1819"; and that upon final hearing a decree might be
entered establishing complainant's rights as set up in the
bill; and there was a prayer for general relief. The contention now made is based upon an unduly narrow interpretation of the act and of the pleading. Granting that
the substantial controversy related to the ownership of
and jurisdiction over the tract lying between the forks,
it was essential to a complete and precise disposition of.
that controversy that the court should define with certainty the bounds of the tract. If it were to be awarded
to the State of Texas, an aicurate definition of its northerly boundary was essential; if to the United States, like
accuracy in defining its southerly boundary was called
for; in either case, the line to be defined was "the true
boundary line between the United States and the State
of Texas." And if, as suggested, the river is to be regarded as navigable (upon which we express no opinion),
so that a boundary line separating national territory from
that of the State, if described as following the river, without more, would by implication follow the middle of the
main navigable channel, as in a case between adjoining
States (Iowa v. Illinois, 147 U. S. 1, 13; Arkansas v.
Tennessee, 246 U. S. 158, 171), so much the more was
specific mention of the bank essential to an accurate description of the tract in issue, if the bank was the true
line instead of mid-channel. And if at the termination
of the suit the line were left undefined, a ground of further
controversy would remain; and it is as foreign to corret

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

practice as to the principles of equity that a final decree
should be pregnant with further litigation.
Even less substantial is the suggestion that the language
of § 25 of the Act of 1890 (26 Stat. 92) authorizing suit to
determine the title to the tract "lying between the North
and South Forks of the Red River," etc., and the use of
that phrase in the amended bill, had the effect of excluding from the issue land south of the middle of the south
fork. Upon so narrow an interpretation, the controversy
might as well be confined to the upland between the forks,
leaving the United States without claim to any part of
the bed of the stream, if the south fork proved to be the
river of the treaty. Of course, the phrase merely pointed
out the tract in dispute, without attempting to delimit it.
The contention that the evidence and the arguments
in the Greer County case raised no controversy as to
whether the boundary followed the mid-channel or the
south bank of the river is not well founded. The Treaty
of 1819, and a mass of historical and other.data bearing
upon its proper interpretation, were before the court. It
appeared that the treaty was negotiated at Washington
between the Spanish Minister, Don Luis de Onis, and the
United States Secretary of State, John Quincy Adams;
M. de Neuville, the French Minister, acting at times as
an intermediary. The State of Texas itself introduced
authenticated extracts from the instructiors of the Spanish Minister and excerpts from correspondence between
him and Mr. Adams, from which latter it appeared that
the question whether the boundary should follow the
middle of the Sabine and Red Rivers, or the westerly
bank of the former and the southerly bank of the latter,
was one of the points under discussion; the Spanish Minister proposing the middle lines, Mr. Adams the banks.
Furthermore, in the principal brief for the State of
Texas, reference was made to entries in Mr. Adams'
diary, found in his Memoirs, vol. 4, pp. 233-280, in con-

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
70.

Opinion of the Court.

nection with which the brief declared: "An objection was
long persisted in by Spain that instead of the banks of
the rivers named being boundaries the middle of the river
should be the dividing line (Adams, sup.). This objection was at last abandoned," etc. The diary itself, in the
pages thus referred to, abounds in statements to the effect
that the representative of Spain, during the course of the
negotiation, insisted that the middle of the rivers should
be taken for the boundary, Mr. Adams firmly insisting
upon "the western and southern banks," and at last prevailing. J. Q. Adams' Memoirs, vol. 4, pp. 255, 256, 261,
264, 266, 267, 270. It is true these references were made
by counsel for Texas principally with the object of showing the important part that the Melish Map (mentioned
in the treaty) played in the negotiations; but it is impossible to escape the conclusion that both counsel and
the court understood that the question whether the boundary line, where it followed the Sabine and Red Rivers,
should be so located as to establish the United States as
owner of the rivers or so as to divide the ownership between the United States and Spain, figured to an important extent in the negotiations, was disposed of by the
treaty, and hence was vital to the correct location of the
boundary line as between the litigants. If the point was
not controverted, it was only because counsel for Texas
in effect conceded that the treaty line ran along the south
bank of the Red River. It may have seemed, at that
time, a matter of no great moment.
Finally, the precise matter was discussed in the opinion
of the court, and was made the subject of a finding which
was carried into the final decree. In the course of an
outline of the diplomatic correspondence and negotiations that preceded the makin of the treaty, the court
said (p. 27): "The Spanish minister required that 'the
boundary between the two countries shall be the middle
of the rivers, and that the navigation of the said rivers

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

shall be common to both countries.' Mr. Adams replied
that the United States had always intended that 'the
property of the river should belong to them,' and he insisted on that point 'as an essential condition, as the
means of avoiding all collision, and as a principle adopted
henceforth by the United States in its treaties with its
neighbors.' He agreed, however, 'that the navigation of
the said rivers to the sea shall be common to both people."'
Citing Annals of Congress, Appendix, 15th Cong., 2d
sess., 2120, 2121, 2123. The opinion then proceeded to
set forth (pp. 27-29) the third and fourth articles of the
treaty, in the former of which occurs the language that
Mr. Adams had insisted upon as carrying out the purposes of the United States that "the property of the river
should belong to them"; and at a later point the opinion
declared (p. 37): "The two governments certainly intended that the line should be run from the Gulf along
the western bank of the Sabine River, and after it reached
Red River that it should follow the course of that river,
leaving both rivers within the United States."
And, having decided the case in favor of the United
States, the court embodied in the final decree a description of the boundary line, in terms quoted above.
To sum it up, we find that the question of the true location of the boundary between the territory of the United
States and Texas where it followed the Red River bordering upon Greer County, and the question whether the
boundary followed the middle or the south bank of the
river, were within the issues made by the pleadings, and
so recognized by both parties, as well as by the court;
that, by the concession of both, the location was to be
determined according to the true effect and meaning of
the Treaty of 1819; that in elucidation of the matter the
treaty, and much historical evidence of the negotiations
that led up to it, were introduced, discussed by counsel
in argment, and referred to in the opinion of the court;

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
70.

Opinion of the Court.

and that the point was directly determined by the court
and the determination made a part of its final decree.
By every test that properly can be applied, the matter is

re judiata.
And, of course, it not only concludes the parties with
respect to that part of the boundary which borders upon
what was called Greer County, but settles the construction of Article 3 of the Treaty of 1819 as to the entirc
course of the Red River where it marks the boundary
between the territory then owned by the United States
and that of the State of Texas.
Having reached this conclusion upon the first of the
two questions proposed for decision, it is unnecessary to
consider the second, which is whether the treaty, by proper
construction, fixes the boundary along the mid-channel or
the south bank. The matter being res judoata, as the
result of the decree in -the former suit, it is of no consequence whether it was correctly decided or not. We say
this without intending to intimate the least doubt about
the propriety of that decision.
The parties may submit within thirty days a proper
form of decree for carrying this decision into effect.
It is so ordered.
MB. JUBTCE CLAxx took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

