SUTTON v. UNITED STATES.
566.

Syllabus.

repeated message, beyond the amount of that portion of the
tolls which shall accrue to this company; . . . [nor]
of any repeated message, beyond fifty times the extra
sum received by this company from the sender for repeating such message over its own lines.
The repeated rate, offering greater accuracy and greater
liability in case of error, was open to anyone who wished
to pay the extra amount for extra security. Whether
the limitation of liability prescribed for the repeated
message would be valid as against a sender who had endeavored, by having the message repeated, to secure the
greatest care on the part of the company, we have no
occasion to decide, because it is not raised by the facts
before us. It is enough to sustain the limitation of liability
attached to the unrepeated rate that another special rate
was offered for messages of value and importance, and
not availed of. The fact that the alternative rate had
tied to it a provision which, if tested, might be found to
be void, is not material in a case where no effort was made
to take advantage of it.
Reversed.
MR.JusTIcE PrrNEY and MR.JUSTICE CLAxm

dissent.

SUWrON, TRUSTEE OF ESTATE OF HILLSBORO
DREDGING COMPAN-Y, BANKRUPT, v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 307.

Argued April 29, 1921.-Decided June 1, 1921.

1. Acts appropriating specific amounts for the improvement of a
navigable channel and for "completing " the improvement, with
provision for using the fund in the prosecution of the work if in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Counsel for Parties.

256 U. B.

sufficient to complete it, (River and Harbor Act, c. 253, § 8, 37 Stat.
233), do not authorize the Secretary of War to contract to expend
more than the amounts appropriated; and his contract to do so
would not bind the Government. (Rev. Stats., §3733; Act of
June 30, 1906, c. 3914, § 9, 34 Stat. 764.) P. 578.
2. An appropriation for the preservation and maintenance of existing
river and harbor works and for the prosecution of work previously
authorized, is not applicable to pay for work theretofore done under
and in excess of a prior appropriation, and when so misapplied the
amount paid may be deducted from a balance owing the contractor
under another contract. P. 579.
3. A contract for dredging and excavating at unit rates specified the
materials to be removed at estimated amounts which, if correctly
estimated, would have been covered by the appropriation, and provided that Government inspectors should keep a record of the work
done, which was to be within the limits of the funds available. Relying upon erroneous estimates of an inspector, the contractor did
more work than the appropriation would pay for betore the error
was discovered and the operations staved. Held, that, there being
no authority to contract in excess of the appropriation, no contract
of the Government to pay the fair value of the excess work could
be implied, either because the contractor was thus misled into doing
it or from the subsequent use of the excavation by the Government.
P. 580.
4. If, through mistake of the Government's representatives, more
work is done, and work is continued for a longer period, than was
contracted for or authorized, the cost of Government superintendence incident to the mistake should not be taken from the appropriation at the expense of the contractor. P. 581.
55 Ct. Chms. 193, affirmed with modification.

TIE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. John B. Suton, with whom Mr. M. Walton Hendry
was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Frank Datvi, Jr., Special Assistant to the Attorney General, with whom Mr. Geo. T. Stormo
and
Mr. Win. D. Harris were on the brief, for the United

States.

SUTTON v. UNITED STATES.
-575.

MR. JusmT
court.

Opinion of the Court.

BRANImEIS deliverel the opinion of the

The River and Harbor Act of July 25, 1912, c. 253, 37
Stat. 201, 209, made this appropriation: "Improving
channel from Clearwater Harbor through Boca Ceiga Bay
to Tampa Bay, Florida: Completing improvement and
for maintenance, twenty thousand dollars." Sealed proposals were solicited, and on January 21, 1913, a contract
was made by the War Department with the Hillsboro
Dredging Company to do work at unit rates for dredging
soft material and for excavating rock. The appropriation
was ample to defray the cost at these rates, assuming
that the quantities of material to be removed did not
greatly exceed the estimates presented by the specifications. It was provided by the contract that United States
"inspectors will keep a record of the work done" and
also that., "within the limits of available funds the United
States reserves the right to require the removal of such
yardage as will complete the work . . . be it more
or less than the quantity above estimated.
"
Work was begun under the contract in June, 1913, and
payments were made monthly on estimates of the government inspector. Upon these estimates both the Government and the contractor relied. About May 15, 1914,
it was discovered that through a mistake of the inspector
so much work had already been done that, if paid for at
the unit rates, it would call for an amount far in excess
of the appropriation available. The government engineer
in charge ordered operations discontinued immediately;
and this contractor had no further connection with the
work. The work already done amounted at the unit
price to $25,032.31. The aggregate appropriation available for the improvement-including an additional
%3,000made by Act of March 4, 1913, c. 144, 37 Stat. 801,
809--was $23,000. Against this appropriation the Gov-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
. Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

ernment charged $1,732.90 'or superintendence and office
expenses. The balance-$21,267.10--it paid to the contractor, leaving unsatisfied a claim, at the unit rates, of
$3,042.74, for material dredged or excavated, and a
further claim of $1,551 for the cost of blasting rock which
was not removed because of the order to cease work. To
recover these sums the assignee in bankruptcy of the
Hillsboro Company brought this suit in the Court of
Claims. That court entered judgment for the Government, 55 Ct. Clms. 193; and the case is here on appeal.
First. It is urged that the Secretary of War was authorized by Congress to make, and that he did make, a
contract with the Hilisboro Company not only to proceed
with the work, but for its completion; and that the United
States is, therefore, liable, even though the appropriation
proved to be insufficient. Two appropriations had been
made for this project before the Act of 1912 above referred to; one by Act of June 25, 1910, c. 382, 36 Stat.
630, 644, of $29,500, for "improving channel from Clearwater Harbor"; the other by Act of February 27, 1911, c.
166, 36 Stat. 933, 941, of a like amount for "completing
improvement." The Act of 1912 provided by §8 (37
Stat. 233) that "whenever the appropriations made, or
authorized to be made, for the completion of any river
and harbor work shall prove insufficient therefor, the
Secretary of War may, in his discretion, on the recommendation of the Chief of Engineers, apply the funds so
appropriated or authorized to the prosecution of such
work." But by none of these acts was any authority
conferred upon the Secretary of War to complete the improvement or to contract to expend more than the amount
then appropriated. On the other hand, § 3733 of the
Revised Statutes provides that no contract "for any
public improvement . . . shall bind the Government
to pay a larger sum of money than the amount in the
Treasury appropriated for the specific purpose." See

SUTTON r. UNITED STATES.
575.

Opinion of the Court.

also §§ 3732 and 5503. And the Act of June 30, 1906,
c. 3914, provides by § 9 (34 Stat. 697, 764) that "No Act
of Congress hereafter passed shall be construed
to authorize the execution of a contract involving the
payment of money in excess of appropriations made by
law, unless such Act shall in specific terms declare an
appropriation to be made or that a contract may be
executed." The Secretary of War was, the-'fore, without
power to make a contract binding the Government to
pay more than the amount appropriated. See Bradley v.
United Stales, 98 U. S. 104, 113, 114. Those dealing with
him must be held to have had notice of the limitations
upon his authority. But there is nothing in the contract
indicating a purpose to bind the Government for any
amount in excess of the appropriation. On the contrary,
it limits to the amount of the appropriation the work
which may be done.
By Act of October 2, 1914, c. 313, 38 Stat. 725, Congress
appropriated the sum of $20,000,000 "to be expended
under the direction of the Secretary of War and the supervision of the Chief of Engineers, for the preservation and
maintenance of existing river and harbor works, and for
the prosecution of such projects heretofore authorized as
may be most desirable in the interests of commerce and
navigation, and most economical and advantageous in
the execution of the work." Out of the sum so appropriated $12,000 was allotted by the Secretary for completing the Clearwater Harbor Improvement; and out of
this sum there was paid to the contractor in November,
1914, $3,046.44, being the unpaid balance at unit prices
for the material removed prior to May 15, 1914. This
payment was later disallowed by the auditor for the War
Department and the Comptroller of the Treasury and
was deducted from payments made to the contractor
under a wholly different contract for work in North and
South Carolina. It is clear that the Act of 1914 did not

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

authorize the application of any part of the appropriation
to work theretofore done. The payment therefrom having been unauthorized, did not bind the Government;
and if it was entitled to recover the money, the method
pursued in doing so was proper. Wisconsin Central R. R.
Co. v. United States, 164 U. S. 190; Grand Trunk Western
Ry. Co. v. United States, 252 U. S. 112.
Second. It is contended that since the contract pro'vided that the government "inspectors will keep a record
of the work done," since their estimates were relied upon
by the contractor, and since by reason of the inspector's
mistake the contractor was led to do work in excess of
the appropriation, the United States is liable as upon an
implied contract for the fair value of the work performed;
But the short answer to this contention is that since no
official of the Government could have rendered it liable
for this work by an express contract, none can by his acts
or omissions create a valid contract implied in fact. The
limitation upon the authority to impose contract obligations upon the United States is as applicable to contracts by implication as it is to those expressly made.
Nor did the subsequent use of the excavation by the Government imply a promise to pay for it if at any time thereafter Congress should appropriate money to be applied
in completing the improvement. "Whenever a structure
is permanently affixed to real property belonging to an
individual, without his consent or request, he cannot be
held responsible because of its subsequent use. It becomes his by being annexed to the soil; and 'he is not
obliged to remove it to escape liability. He is not deemed
to have accepted it so as to incur an obligation to pay
for it, merely because he has not chosen to tear it down,
but has seen fit to use it." United States v. Pacific Railroad, 120 U. S. 227, 240. And the work here in question
was not done with the consent or at the request of the
United States; for neither the government inspectors

SUTTON v. UNITED STATES.
575.

Opinion of the Court.

nor the Secretary of War had authority either to obligate
the Government or accept voluntary services. See Rev.
Stats., §3679, as amended March 3, 1905, c. 1484, § 4, 33
Stat. 1257, and February 27, 1906, c. 510, § 3, 34 Stat. 48.
There is no necessity to consider what may be the
equitable rule where there is a claim of unjust enrichment through work done upon the land of another under
a mistake of fact. See Bright v. Boyd, 1 Story, 478; 2
Story, 608; Williams v. Gibbes, 20 How. 535, 538; Canal
Bank v. Hudson, 111 U. S. 66, 82-83; Armstrong v. Ashley,
204 U. S. 272, 285. .Nor need we consider whether the
doctrine is ever applicable to transactions with the Government. For the right to sue the United States in the
Court of Claims here invoked must rest upon the existence of a contract express or implied in fact. United
States v. North American Transportation & Trading Co.,
253 U. S. 330, 335.
Third. While the contractor cannot recover for work
done in excess of the appropriation he is entitled to payment to the extent of the available appropriation. The
amount appropriated was $23,000. The contractor
received only $21,267.10. It appears that the balance,
$1,732.90, was applied to superintendence and office
expenses; and the findings of fact state that the contractor "was charged with expenses of inspection during
an extension of time beyond the contract period amounting to $722.47." The appropriate expense of superintendence is clearly chargeable against the appropriation.
But if through mistake of the Government's representatives more work is done, and work is continued for a
longer period than was contracted for or authorized, the
expenses of superintendence incident to the mistake
should be borne by the Government; and the contractor
should not be made to suffer by the depletion of the appropriation. The fund otherwise available for work
actually performed should be applied to that purpose.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

256 U. S.

The findings of fact leave us in doubt whether there has
been charged against this appropriation any sum for
superintendence in excess of amounts properly chargeable; and counsel were unable to remove these doubts,
to which attention was called at the argument. Unless
the parties can agree as to the facts, the case should be
remanded to the Court of Claims to determine what, if
any, amount was errdneously charged against the appropriations aggregating $23,000; and for the amount of
such improper charges, if any, judgment should be entered for the petitioner. Except as stated the judgment is
A fmed.

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. R. P. ANDREWS
PAPER COMPANY.
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. SAKS & COMPANY.
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. LISNER.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.
Non. 282-284.

Argued April 22, 25, 1921.-Deided June 1, 1921.

1. Permits to build vaults under sidewalks adjacent to their premises
were issued to private parties for a nominal charge by the Commissioners of the District of Columbia, subject to the building regulations, which provided, inter alia, that no charge should be made
the occupants of such vaults, that permits should be revocable
when the space was needed for public use or improvements, and that
the space should be vacated when ordered by the Commissioners or
needed for public u=-e; the permittees signed agreements, as required
by these regulations, accepting the permits on conditions recognizing
the right of the District to construct sewers, etc., which it might
deem necessary, and the duty of vault occupants to clear the space

