OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

256 U. S.

load (No. 280), and in behalf of the Railroad for .those
claimed on account of eight carloads (No. 281).
We think the doctrine announced in Pittsburgh, Cincinnati, Chicago & St Louis Ry. Co. v. Fink, 250 U. S. 577,
(November 10, 1919), is controlling, and that the liability
of York & Whitney Company was a question of law.
The transaction between the parties amounted to an
assumption by the consignee to pay the only lawful rate
it had the right to pay or the carrier the right to charge.
The consignee could not escape the liability imposed by
law through any contract with the carrier.
The judgment of the court below so far as challenged in
No. 280 must be reversed and the cause remanded for
further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
The judgment so far as challenged in No. 281 is
Affirmed.

VICKSBURG, SHREVEPORT & PACIFIC RAILWAY
COMPANY ET AL. v. ANDERSON-TULLY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 270. Argued March 24, 1921.-Decided May 16, 1921.
1. The provision of the amended Interstate Commerce Act allowing an
action to enforce a reparation order to be brought in any district
"through which the road of the carrier runs" (§ 16, c. 309, 36 Stat.
589, 554), applies to a district where the defendant owns no railroad
but has its cars hauled by, and over the line of, another carrier for
a mileage compensation to and from a point therein where both
share the expenses of freight and ticket offices at which the defendant issues tickets and bills of lading to the points on its system
outside pursuant to tariffs making no divisions of rates between
the two. P. 411.

VICKSBURG &c. RY. CO. v. ANDERSON-TULLY CO. 409
408.

Counsel for Parties.

2. This provision as to venue was not repealed by the legislation
abolishing the Commerce Court, 38 Stat. 219. P. 413.
3. Under the Federal Railroad Control Act, § 10, c. 25, 40 Stat. 456, an
action to enforce a reparation order based on a shipment which
moved before the Government took control of the defendant carrier's
railroad, could be brought against the carrier while such control
existed. P. 412.
4. A return showing service of summons in such an action on a person
described as the carrier's freight agent is not impeached by the fact
that the Government was in control of the railroad at the time, in the
absence of proof that he was employed by the Director General of
Railroads, and not also as agent of the carrier. P. 412.
5. A general finding by the District Court in an action at law
tried without a jury is conclusive upon all matters of fact, and
in the absence of exceptions to rulings of law during the trial,
review in this court is limited to the sufficiency of the complaint.
P. 414.
6. A petition, in an action to enforce a reparation order, held sufficient
under § 16 of the amended Interstate Commerce Act, supra, prescribing that such a petition shall set forth briefly the causes for
which damages are claimed and the order of the Commission in the
premises. P. 415.
7. The pendency of a carrier's application for relief under § 4 of the
Interstate Commerce Act as amended in 1910, did not suspend the
Commission's power to award reparation for past exactions of an
unreasonable rate which the carrier itself corrected by amending its
tariffs after the petition for reparation was filed. P. 416.
261 Fed. Rep. 741, affirmed.
ERROR to review a judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals affirming a judgment for the shipper in an action
brought in the District Court to enforce a reparation

order made by the Interstate Commerce Commission.
The facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Samuel W. Moore, with whom Mr. J. Blanc Monroe and Mr. Frank H. Moore were on the brief, for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Harry B. Anderson for defendant in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE CLARKF delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action instituted by a shipper under the provisions of § 16 of the Interstate Commerce Act, as amended
June 18, 1910, c. 309, 36 Stat. 539, 554, against various
carriers, based upon an order of the Interstate Commerce
Commission for the payment of money found due as
reparation for the exacting of an unreasonable rate for
the transportation of "box shooks" in carload lots from
Vicksburg, Mississippi, to Port Arthur, Texas, which the
carriers refused to pay.
It will be necessary to consider only the liability of the
defendant, the Vicksburg, Shreveport & Pacific Railway
Company, hereinafter referred to as the Vicksburg Company.
The petition in the case was filed in the United States
District Court for the Western Division of the Southern
District of Missiisippi, and the plaintiff therein, defendant
in error, for the purpose of showing the venue, allowed in
§ 16 of the Interstate Commerce Act, supra, alleged that
the defendant, the Vicksburg Company, was operating a
part of its road within that district. The Vicksburg Company challenged the jurisdiction of the District Court by a
plea in abatement, denying that it owned or operated
a railroad in the District at the time or for many months
before the petition was filed and averred that the person
on whom summons was served was not at the time its
agent.
The shipper prevailed in both lower courts.
The venue provision of the Interstate Commerce Act
allows such an action as we have here to be commenced
in any district "through which the road of the carrier
runs," and it is contended, first, that the Vicksburg Company did not have a road running through the District
of suit, and that, therefore, the court did not have jurisdiction over the case.

VICKSBURG &c. RY. CO. v. ANDERSON-TULLY CO. 411
408.

Opinion of the Court.

It is stipulated that the Vicksburg Company is a Louisiana corporation and that at the times involved it owned a
railroad extending through Louisiana to Delta Point, a
station on the west bank of the Mississippi River, opposite Vicksburg. Its cars were ferried to and fro across
the river and were hauled by the Alabama & Vicksburg
Railroad Company, hereinafter called the Alabama Company, over its rails to freight and passenger stations in
Vicksburg. The Vicksburg and the Alabama companies
shared the expense of freight and ticket offices in Vicksburg, at which tickets were sold and bills of lading issued
by the Vicksburg Company from Vicksburg to various
points on its line. The Vicksburg Company filed passenger and freight tariffs with the Interstate Commerce
Commission without any division of rates with the Alabama Company, that company being paid on a mileage
basis for the service which it rendered east of the river.
It is also stipulated "that exactly the same arrangement
is now in force between" the Vicksburg and Alabama
companies "as was in effect before the United States
Government took control of these two roads."
Thus the mileage, passenger, freight and tariff publication, arrangements which the Vicksburg Company had
with the Alabama Company plainly were equivalent in
practice to a lease of the road of that company to the
Vicksburg Company for its transportation purposes, and
the dealings of the Vicksburg Company with the public
and with the Interstate Commerce Commission with
respect to traffic to and from Vicksburg were precisely the
same as if it had owned or had leased the Alabama Company's tracks. The applicable venue provision of the
Interstate Commerce Act does not require that the carrier shall be the owner of a railroad in the District, but
only that its road must run through it, and we agree with
the Circuit Court of Appeals in concluding that the tracks
of the Alabama Company east of the river, in the district

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

of suit, under the circumstances of operation as the parties stipulated them to be, constituted them the road of
the Vicksburg Company within the meaning of the act.
It is next contended that the person on whom summons
was served was not, at the time, an agent of the Vicksburg Company.
The return of the marshal is that he executed the writ
"by handing a true copy of this summons and petition
for judgment to Austin King, freight agent for the Vicksburg, Shreveport and Pacific Railway Company." The
plea in abatement denied on" information, knowledge and
belief" of counsel that King was at the time of service
an agent of either of the defendants. No evidence whatever was introduced to sustain this plea and in support
of it sole reliance is placed upon the stipulation that the
Government was in control of the lines of the Vicksburg
Company at the time the petition was filed.
The unreasonable rate for which the reparation order
was made was exacted on shipments moving long prior
to the taking over of the railroads by the Government in
December, 1917, and there being no evidence that King
was not the agent of the Vicksburg Company, the return
of the marshal was properly accepted by both lower
courts as conclusive. He may not have been in the employ
of the Director General of Railroads at all and it was entirely possible for him to have been serving as agent for
both the Director and the Company.
Since the shipment for which reparation was allowed
moved prior to the taking over of the railroads by the
United States Government, as against the objection of
government control, we think the provision of § 10 of the
Federal Railroad Control Act (40. Stat. 451, 456) is applicable and ample to support the jurisdiction, viz., that
"actions at law or suits in equity may be brought by
and against such carriers and judgments rendered as now
provided by law; and in any action at law or suit in equity

VICKSBURG &c. RY. CO. v. ANDERSON-TULLY CO. 413
408.

Opinion of the Court.

against the carrier, no defense shall be made thereto upon
the ground that the carrier is an instrumentality or agency
of the Federal Government."
It is further claimed that the act of Congress abolishing
the Commerce Court (38 Stat. 208, 219), repealed by implication the provisions of § 16, supra, permitting such
reparation suits as we have here to be filed in the District
Court for any district "through which the road of the
carrier runs" and that for this reason the District Court
was without jurisdiction.
The plaintiff was a Michigan corporation and if the
provisions of § 16 referred to had been repealed at the
time the case was commenced the venue was improperly
laid and the court was without jurisdiction.
The argument is that the act of Congress abolishing the
Commerce Court, in restoring to the District Courts the
jurisdiction which had been vested exclusively in that
court, provided that "The venue of any suit hereafter
brought to enforce, suspend, or set aside . . . any
order of the Interstate Commerce Commission shall be
in the judicial district wherein is the residence of the party
or any of the parties upon whose petition the order was
made;" (38 Stat. 219) and that this provision for venue
is so inconsistent with that of § 16, supra, allowing suit
to be commenced, on an order for the payment of money,
in any district through which the road of the carrier runs,
that the latter must be regarded as repealed by implication.
This contention is much too artificial and unsubstantial
for us to consider it in much detail. It is enough to say
that the two principal amendments to the Interstate
Commerce Act of 1887 show that it has been the plainly
expressed policy of Congress to make the prosecution of
suits upon reparation orders for the payment of money
progressively easier and less expensive for the shipper by
enlarging the venue provisions of them, doubtless because

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

many such claims are so small that if suit could be maintained by the owners only in distant jurisdictions a large
part of them would be abandoned. Act, 1887, 24 Stat.
379, 384, § 16; Act, 1906, 34 Stat. 584, 590, § 16; Act, 1910,
36 Stat. 539, 554, § 16. The Commerce Court repealing
act was a section of an appropriation act and dealt with
venue only to the extent necessary to redistribute the
jurisdiction of the court abolished and in terms it repealed
only acts or parts of acts in so far "as they relate to the
establishment of the Commerce Court" and again so far
as "inconsistent with the foregoing provisions relating
to the Commerce Court." 38 Stat. 219, 221. The venue
provided for, and relied upon in this suit, was for suits in
the Circuit (District) Court on an order for the payment
of money, and of such suits the Commerce Court never
had jurisdiction.
The contention that Congress intended by implication
to repeal and cut down to such narrow limits the venue
which has gradually been so liberally extended cannot be
entertained. The terms of the repealing act do not justify
it and we cannot doubt that if such purpose had been
intended it would not have been left to inference and implication but would have been clearly expressed.
Coming to the essentials of the case. When the cause
came on for trial on its merits, a jury being duly waived,
it is recited in the entry of the judgment that it was
stipulated, that' either party might use in evidence any
part of the record and evidence introduced in the hearings before the Interstate Commerce Commission, which
resulted in the order relied upon, and that any of the
printed reports and findings of the Commission might
be used. It is also recited that the plaintiff introduced
the report of the Interstate Commerce Commission and
the order of the Commission directing the payment of
the money sued for, and rested its case, and that "the
defendants introduced no evidence."
Thereupon the

VICKSBURG &c. RY. CO. v.ANDERSON-TULLY CO. 415
408.

Opinion of the Court.

court found that the report and order of the Commission
constituted prima facie evidence of the facts therein
stated and entered judgment in favor of the plaintiff for
the amount of the order with interest and an attorney's fee.
There was no request made by the carriers for any ruling
of law, and no exception whatever was taken during the
trial. There being no special findings of fact by the court,
its general finding has the effect of a verdict of a jury (Rev.
Stats., § 649), is conclusive upon all matters of fact, and
there not being any exceptions to rulings of law in the
progress of the trial, the review in this court is limited
to the sufficiency of the complaint (Rev. Stats., § 700);
Norris v. Jackson, 9 Wall. 125; St. Louis v. Western Union
Telegraph Co., 166 U. S. 388; Lehnen v. Dickson, 148
U. S. 71.
The contention that the petition does not state a cause
of action against the carriers first appears in the assignment of errors in the Circuit Court of Appeals, after an
elaborate answer and adverse judgment in the District
Court. However, the petition avers that the shipper
filed its petition with the Interstate Commerce Commission, claiming that it had been charged an unreasonable
rate, that upon hearing the Commission entered an order
for the payment of money "as reparation on account of
an unreasonable rate exacted for the transportation"
of its freight, that the order required payment to be made
by a date named, that the carriers had refused payment
when demanded, and that the suit was instituted under
the Act to Regulate Commerce of 1887, and amendments
thereof. To this petition copies of the report and order
of the Commission were attached. These- allegations
were amply sufficient to meet the requirements of the
statute, that the petition in such a case shall set forth
briefly the causes for which damages are claimed and the
order of the Commission in the premises. (36 Stat. 539,
554, § 16.)

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

It is also contended that it was not competent for the
Interstate Commerce Commission to enter the order which
was made, for the reason that before the hearing by the
Commission the carriers had filed an application for
relief under § 4 of the Interstate Commerce Act, as
amended in 1910, which had not been disposed of at the
time the order was made, and that therefore the provision
of that act that no rates or charges lawfully existing at the
time of the passage of the amendment should be required
to be changed until the determination of such application
by the Commission, was applicable. To this it is sufficient
to say that it appears from the Commission's first report
that immediately after the filing of the complaint with
the Commission the carriers amended their tariffs so as
to correct the unreasonable rate which was complained
of under § 3 of the act, and we quite agree with the Commission that whatever the application under § 4 may have
been (there is no copy of it in the record), such amendment
removed the occasion for further suspension of action by
the Commission under the provision quoted. The Commission aptly says that the rate then on file conformed
'to the requirements of the fourth section and defendants'
application in so far as this adjustment is concerned has
no further office to perform."
The final contention that the facts found by the Interstate Commerce Commission were so adopted by the
District Court as to become special findings of fact by
that court which may be reviewed by this court without
exception being taken to any of them is too trivial to
deserve discussion.
It results that the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals is
Affirmed.

