OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

256 U. S.

court that there is nothing in this statute which prevents enforcement of the revenue act in question. It is
true that the provisions regulating the sale, dispensation,
and disposition of the prohibited drugs are somewhat
different in the two acts. The prohibitory measures of
the federal statute do not apply to the disposition and
dispensation of drugs by physicians registered under the
act in the regular course of professional practice provided
records are kept for official inspection. Under the state
law physicians can only furnish prescriptions to addicts,
and may not dispense the drugs to such persons at pleasure
from stocks of their own.
There is certainly nothing in this state enactment, as
construed by the Supreme Court of Minnesota, which!
interferes with the enforcement of the federal revenue
law, and we agree with the state court that there is no
conflict between the enactments such as will prevent the
State from enforcing its own law upon the subject.
It follows that the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Minnesota must be
A frmed.

GALBRAITH v. VALLELY, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF REISWIG, BANKRUPT.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 234.

Argued March 18, 1921.-Decided April 11, 1921.

An assignee for the benefit of creditors turned over the assets to a
trustee appointed in a later bankruptcy proceeding, less certain
amounts which he claimed as compensation for services rendered
and disbursements made, as assignee, before the bankruptcy adjudi-

GALBRAITH v. VALLELY.
46.

Opinion of the Court.

cation. Held, that his claim was an adverse claim which the District
Court was without jurisdiction to dispose of summarily in the bankruptcy proceedings over his objection. P. 48. Louisville Trust Co.
v. Comingor, 184 U. S. 18.
261 Fed. Rep. 670, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Fred B. Dodge, with whom Mr. Kay Todd, Mr.
Walter Fosnea and Mr. Charles W. Sterling were on the
brief, for petitioner.
No appearance for respondent.
MR. JusicE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of certiorari to review a decision of the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit affirming
an order of the District Judge for the District of North
Dakota in a bankruptcy proceeding. The pertinent facts
are: On August 15, 1917, one Conrad C. Reiswig executed a trust deed for the benefit of his creditors to John
P. Galbraith, assignee and the petitioner herein. The
assigned stock of merchandise was sold. Various proceedings and meetings of creditors were had, not necessary
to recite. On December 22, 1917. upon the petition of
creditors, Reiswig was duly adjudged a bankrupt, and
Vallely, respondent herein, is his trustee in bankruptcy.
Galbraith appeared in the bankruptcy proceedings and
filed an account, claiming therein the right to retain a
certain sum for fees and disbursements under the assignment; and paid over to the trustee in bankruptcy the
other moneys which he had acquired. Thereupon the
trustee in bankruptcy fied a petition with the referee in
bankruptcy asking, in a summary proceeding, for an
order upon Galbraith to show cause why he should not
pay over the sum of $1,474.10, retained as fees and ex-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

penses as trustee under the assignment. The referee in
bankruptcy made an order that Galbraith forthwith pay
over that sum to the trustee in bankruptcy or show cause
why he should not do so. Galbraith appeared and set
up that the order of the referee in the summary proceeding was without authority as he was an adverse claimant
to the moneys referred to in the order, and that the court
had no jurisdiction in a summary proceeding to hear
and determine the questions involved. Without waiving
objection, and subject to the right of Galbraith to assert
his objection to the proceedings, testimony was taken
concerning the money expended and retained by the
assignee prior to the bankruptcy proceedings, for administering the estate. Among other things it was stipulated
that, as to the particular money expended by the assignee,
he was an adverse claimant. The referee delivered an
opinion passing upon the amount of the expenditures
and compensation, but held that Galbraith was an adverse claimant within the rule declared by this court in
Louisville Trust Co. v. Comingor, 184 U. S. 18, and that,
therefore, the bankruptcy court was without jurisdiction
to proceed in a summary manner, and discharged the
order. The decision of the referee was reversed by the
District Judge. 253 Fed. Rep. 390. The Circuit Court
of Appeals affirmed the order of the District Court, 261
Fed. Rep. 670, and the case is here upon writ of certiorari.
We think the referee was right in holding that the case
was governed by Louisville Trust Co. v. Comingor, supra.
In that case a general assignment for the benefit of
creditors was made within four months of the bankruptcy
proceeding; the assignment was therefore an act of bankruptcy. A receiver was appointed in the bankruptcy
court. The assignee turned over the proceeds of sale of
the property, retaining his fees as assignee and his disbursements to counsel. A summary proceeding was begun
in the District Court ordering the assignee to show cause

GALBRAITH v. VALLELY.
46.

Opinion of the Court.

why he should not pay to the receiver the amounts retained. This order was made against the objection of
the assignee that the court had no authority to proceed
in that manner. This court held that the assignee was
an adverse claimant as to these amounts, and that the
District Court was without jurisdiction to determine the
controversy in a summary proceeding. This case has been
repeatedly cited as determinative of the law and practice
in similar cases.1
The Circuit Court of Appeals made no reference to the
(omingor Case and held the case was ruled by Randolph
v. Scruggs, 190 U. S. 533; but that case did not present
the question here involved. In that case there had been
an assignment prior to the bankruptcy proceedings, and
the question presented was whether a claim for professional
services rendered in the course of a general assignment
before the bankruptcy was entitled to be paid as a preferential claim out of the estate in the hands of the trustee
in bankruptcy when the adjudication of bankruptcy
had been made within four months after the making of
the assignment, and the assignment set aside as in contravention of the bankruptcy law. It was held that the
claim for compensation could be allowed so far as the
services were shown to be beneficial to the estate.
In Babbitt v. Dutcher, 216 U. S. 102, also cited in the
opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals, it was held that
books and records of a corporation, upon adjudication
in bankruptcy, passed to the trustee; and belonged in
the custody of the bankruptcy court, there being no
adverse claim to them. Upon that state of facts it was
1See full consideration of the subject by the Circuit Court of Appeals
of the Eighth Circuit, Judges Sanborn, Van Devanter and Reed, in
In re Rathman, 183 Fed. Rep. 913; Collier on Bankruptcy, lth ed.,
525,528, and cases cited in notes; Black on Bankruptcy, 974; 2 Remington on Bankruptcy, 2nd ed., ยง 1612; 1st Loveland on Bankruptcy, 2nd
ed., 129.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

held that, on a rule to show cause, the court could properly
make an order compelling the delivery of the books to
the trustee. In the opinion in that case, Louisville Trust
Co. v. Comingor, supra, and other cases are cited for the
purpose of showing that a different rle would prevail
when an adverse claimant set up a right to be heard in
other than a summary proceeding.
It. may be, as suggested by the Circuit Court of Appeals,
that a summary proceeding at the instance of the trustee
would afford a more speedy and economical administration
of the estate in bankruptcy. But the right to recover
in such instances, only in suits of the ordinary character,
with the rights and remedies incident thereto, has been
consistentlyi maintained by this court. The principle of
the Comingor Case has never been departed from in this
court. It establishes the right of an assignee for the
benefit of creditors, to the extent that he asserts rights
to expenses incurred and compensation earned under an
assignment in good faith before the bankruptcy proceedings, to have the merits of his claim determined in a
judicial proceeding suitable to that purpose, and not by
summary proceedings where punishment for contempt
is the means of enforcing the order. We see no occasion
to depart from this practice. There was no waiver by
the assignee of his rights in this respect. He made no
attempt to retain the body of the estate as against the
trustee in bankruptcy. As to his disbursements and
compensation while acting as assignee, he asserted an
adverse claim. Under the settled rule of this court he
could not be proceeded against summarily for such disbursements and compensation over his protest duly made
against that method of procedure.
In our view the courts belc , erred in deciding otherwise, and the order of the Circuit Court of Appeals is,
accordingly,
Reversed.

