OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

256 U. .

Irrigato Distrit v. FarmersMutual Canal Co., 243 U. S.
157, 164. And when, as here, the statute unquestionably
might have made the tax applicable to this transfer, we
do not inquire very curiously into the reasoning by which
the statute is held to justify the tax. "As there was
state power to tax . . . the question whether or not
the interest [of the plaintiffs in error] under the circumstances was correctly subjected to the tax was a purely
state question." Moffia v. Kelly, 218 U. S. 400, 405.
The plaintiffs in error contend that this Court is "coneerned. . . solely with the effect and operation of the
law as put in force by the State." Corn Products Rfining Co. v. Eddy, 249 U. S. 427, 432. The operation of

the law if construed to cover this case infringes no constitutional rights
Judgments ajlrmned.
Writs of Cerfioraridenie.
Mu. Jwric
MEL Jumic
this case.

McKNNA dissents.
CL&mx took no part in the decision of

ST. LOUIS-SAN FRANCISCO RAILWAY COMPANY
v. MIDDLEKAMP, STATE TREASURER OF THE
STATE OF MISSOURI, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DMTRICT COURT OF THE UNIED STATES
FOR THE VESTRN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 636. Argued March 2, 3, 1921.-Decided May 2, 1921.

1. The question whether the Amiouri law laying on corporations
an annual franchise tax of a percentage of their capital stock and
surplus employed in the State (Laws 1917, pp. 237-242) lacks

ST. LOUIS-SAN FRANCISCO RY. v. MIDDLEKAMP. 227
226.

Counsel for Appellant.

due process, in not providing a hearing, of right, before the commission that assesses the tax, is presumably open in the suit

provided for collecting the tax, and therefore cannot be relied
on in a suit in the District Court to restrain collection brought
by a corporation which had a hearing and whose valuations
we accepted by the commission in making the assement.
P. 229.

2. Its own figures having been so accepted, the corporation can not
cmplain that it was taxed disproportionately as compared with
other railroads, the commimon not having acted fraudulently.
P. 230.
it to have been con3. The disouri law, as this court u
strued by the Supreme Court of the State, subjects foreign corprations with stock having no stated par value to the tax; it,
therefore, does not discriminate against domestic corporations
whose stock has a stated par value. P. 230.
4. Th tax does not contravene the Commerce Clause, even if the value
of the franchise taxed is derived partly from the fact that the corporation does interstate businem. P. 231.
5. Federal control of its railroad during the tax year did not
P. 231.
exonerate the plaintiff railroad company from the ts
by
imposing
of
Missouri
constitution
the
violate
6. The act does not
double taxation. P. 231.
7. The "smrplus " is the exem in value of the assets in the State
(where the corporation employs part of its "capital stock" in
businm elsewhere) over the capital stock employed in the State.
P. 231.
8. While, in respect of such corporations, the statute in one clause
describes the tax as measured by the capital stock employed in
the State, other connected clauses show the intention to include
the s.rplus so employed, as well. P. 231.
Affirmed.

AppaSi from a decree of the District Court sustaining
a franchise tax imposed on a Missouri railroad corporation,
which sought to enjoin its collection. The facts are given

in the opinion.
Mr. Edward T. Mller and Mr. Henry S. Conrad, with
whom Mr. Wiliam F. Evans was on the briefs, for appellant.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

Mr. Frank W. McAUister, with whom Mr. Jew W.
Barrett, Attorney General of the State of Missouri, and
Mr. Merril E. Otis were on the briefs, for appellees.
Mr. Thomas 0. Stokes, Mr. D. A. Frank, Mr. J. W.

Gleed and Mr. S. L. Swarts, by leave of court, filed a
brief as amici cunr.
MR. Ju

czcE Holies delivered the opinion of the

court.

This is a bill to restrain the collection of a franchise
tax imposed by the statutes of Missouri upon domestic
corporations. Laws of 1917, pp. 237-242.1 The plaintiff,

a corporation of Missouri, filed with the State Tax Con1 Section 1. Every corporation organized under the laws of this
state shall, in addition to all other fees and taxes now required or paid,
pay an annual franchise tax to the state of Missouri equal to threefortieths of one per cent of the par value of its outstanding capital
stock and surplus, or if such corporation employs a part of its capital
stock in business in another state or country, then such corporation
shall pay an annual fmanhise tax equal to thrse-fortieths of one per
cent of its capital stock employed in this state, and for the purposes
of this act such corporation shall be deemed to have employed in
this state that proportion of its entire outstanding capital stock and
su-plas that. its property and assets in this state beas to all its prop.wwmration;not organized
erty and assets wherever located. Every
under the laws of this state, and engaged in business in this shite,
shall pay an annual franchise tax to the state of Missouri equal to
three-fortieths of one per cent of the par value of its capital stock and
surplus employed in business in this state, and for the purposes of
this act such corporation shall be deemed to have employed in this
state that proportion of its entire capital stock and surplus that its
property and assets in this state bears to all its property and assets
wherever located; provided, that this act shall not apply to corporations
not organized for profit, nor to express companies, which now pay
an annual tax on their gross receipts in this state; and insurance colnpanies, which pay an annual tax on their gross premium receipts in
this state

ST. LOUIS-SAN FRANCISCO RY. v. MIDDLEKAMP. 229
22&

Opinion of the Court.

mission a report, as required by law, showing the value
of its assets within the State to be $122,826,652, and
the amount of its stock employed within the State
$21,625,830. The State Tax Commission accepted these
figures and following the statute levied a tax measured
by 3/40 of one per cent. of the capital stock employed
within the State, and also the same tax in respect of the
excess in value of the assets within the State over that of
such stock, treating that as the "surplus" which the
statute takes as the measure along with the stock. The
result of course was a tax of 3/40 of one per cent. upon
$122,826,652, equal to $92,119.99. The plaintiff contests the constitutionality of the act under the Fourtenth
Amendment and the Commerce Clause (Art. I, § 8),
and under a supposed prohibition of double taxation in
the constitution of Missouri. It also contends that if
the act was valid it was misconstrued in the ascertainment of the surplus over the value of the capital stock
in the State. A preliminary injunction was denied by
three judges sitting in the District Court and the plain-

tiff appealed.
The objection most insisted upon in this Court was
that the statute made no provision for a hearing, and
that although the plaintiff applied to the Tax Commission
for a hearing and had one, the statute was bad because
it did not provide one in terms. Cenru of Georgia Ry.
Co. v. Wright, 207 U. S. 127, 138. The mode of collecting
the tax is by a suit where, of course, the present plaintiff
would be heard, but it is said that the judgment of the
Commission can be attacked only for wat of jurisdiction
and fraud. We cannot suppose however that any question of law apparent on the face of the record would not
be open. The constitutional objection mainly relied
upon necessarily would be. And as in this case the Commission accepted the plaintiff's figures and the contest
is wholly upon matters of law, we see nothing of which

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

the plaintiff can complain in this respect. There is to be
sure one charge involving matter of fact dehors the record.
It is alleged that the plaintiff was taxed disproportionately
as compared with other railroads. But the plaintiff was
taxed upon its own figures in accordance with the statute
and could not complain of that. If it had made out a
case of fraud against the Commission we presume that
the State Courts would have been open to it, as well as
the District Court of the United States. But nothing of
that kind was proved. Sunday Lake Iron Co. v. Wakefild,
247 U. S. 350, 353.
The next objection to the tax has assumed greater
importance than any other because it induced the same
judges who sat in this case to change their opinion and
issue a temporary injunction in a suit like this brought
by the Southwestern Bell Telephone Company. We will
consider it although it hardly is open on the bill. It now
has been decided by the Supreme Court of Missouri that
corporations with stock having no stated par value can
be admitted to do business in the State, State ex rel.
Standard Tank Car Co. v. Sullivan, 282 Missouri, 261,
and that decision was taken to mean that all such corporations fall within a provision imposing a tax of only
twenty-five dollars upon foreign corporations without
a capital stock. On that ground it was held that the
Southwestern Bell Telephone Company was denied the
equal protection of the laws. We hesitate to differ from
judges presumably familia with local conditions, but
we cannot read the careful discussion by the Missouri
Court as having the meaning supposed. It is true that
it adverts to the "lump annual tax " imposed upon
foreign corporations without a capital stock while arguing
that the policy and laws of Missouri do not forbid their
entering the State. But at a later page it quotes with
approval a Kansas case to show not only that the absence
of a stated value for the stock would create no difficulty

ST. LOUIS-SAN FRANCISCO RY. v. MIDDLEKAMP. 231
226.

Opinion of the Court

in determining whether a corporation should be admitted
but also that it would create equally little difficulty in
applying the tax imposed upon corporations with stock
having a stated par. Until the Supreme Court of the
State decides otherwise we shall assume that the supposed
inequality of treatment does not exist.
There is no contravention of the Commerce Clause.
It is said that the value of the franchise taxed is derived
partly from the fact that the corporation does interstate
business, but that does not invalidate the tax. St. Louis
& East St. Louis Electric Ry. Co. v. Hagerman, post, 314.
St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co. v. Arkansas, 235 U. S.
350, 365. Of course the fact that the plaintiff's road was
under federal control during the year in question does
not exonerateit. Itwas profiting by its franchises although
in a different way. Act of March 21, 1918, c. 25, §§ 1, 15,
40 Stat. 451, 458.
Nothing more needs to be said concerning the relation
of the act to the Constitution of the United States. As
to the constitution of Missouri we see no reason to believe
that it has been violated and perceive no indication of
such an opinion in the judgments of the Supreme Court
of the State. That Court on the contrary seems to regard
the act as valid. State ex tel. Marquette Hotel Investment
Co. v. State Tax Commission, 282 Missouri, 213. This
case also sanctions the construction adopted by the Commission and the Court below for the word "surplus "
in the statute and shows that the amount of the tax was
right. It is urged that where, as here, only a part of the
corporation's capital is employed within the State the
tax is measured by that part of the capital alone and no
part of the surplus is taken into account. The words are,
"such corporation shall pay an annual franchise tax
equal to three-fortieths of one per cent of its capital stock
employed in this state." But these words follow the
words laying the normal tax measured by stock and sur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

256 U. S.

plus, and the sentence quoted continues "and for the
purposes of this act such corporation shall be deemed to
have employed in this state that proportion of its entire
outstanding capital stock and surplus that its property
and assets in this state bears to all its property and assets
wherever located." We cannot much doubt that the
tax was intended to be measured by the proportion of
stock and surplus in the State, and that the omission of
reference to surplus in the clause first quoted is a misprision or abbreviation that does not conceal the purpose
to be gathered from the previous and following words.
We think it unnecessary to go into further details.
Decree affirmed.

NEWBERRY ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
No. 559.

Argued January 7, 10, 1921.-Decided May 2, 1921.

1. Section 8 of the "Federal Corrupt Practices Act " (June 25, 1910,
c. 392, 36 Stat. 822; amended August 19, 1911, c. 33, 37 Stat. 25),
which undertakes to limit the amount of money which any candidate
for the office of Representative in Congress or of United States
Senator shall give, contribute, expend, use, or promise. or cause to
be given, contributed, expended, used, or promised, in procuring
his nomination or election, is unconstitutional. So held, as applied
to a primary election of candidates for a seat in the Senate. P. 247.
2. The power of Congress over elections of Senators and Representatives has its source in § 4 of Art. I of the Constitution, which provides: "The times, places and manner cf holding elections for
Senators and Representatives, shall be prescribed in each State by
the Legislature thereof; but the Congress may at any time by law
make or alter such regulations, except as to the places of chusing
Senators." P. 247.

