OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Petitioners.

256 U. S.

YAZOO & MISSISSIPPI VALLEY RAILROAD
COMPANY ET AL. v. NICHOLS & COMPANY.
CRTI'ORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MISSLSSIPPI.

No. 216. Argued April 2, l921.-Deeided June 1, 1921.
The Uniform Bill of Lading, approved by the Interstate Commerce
Commimion June 27, 1908, provides that "Property destined to or

taken from a station, wharf, or landing at which there is no regalarly appointed agent shall be entirely at risk of owner after unloaded
from cars or vesis

or until loaded into cam or vesels, and when

received from or delivered on private or other sidings, wharves, or
landings shall be at owner's risk until the cars are attached to and

after they are detached from trains."
Hd&- (1) That the words "at which there is no regularly appointed

agent" Apply to both laus, (Ip.544) and (2) that, where oods had
been loaded into an outgoing car on a spur used generaly by the public, which ran paralel to the main track and connected with it near a
station having such an agent, and a bill of lading had imued, the
goods were at the carrier's risk while the car remained there waiting
to be attached to a train at the carriers convenience, and the fact

that the spur waa partly on prvate land wa immaterial

12D IfzapA 690, affrmed

P. 548.

Rzvirw of a judgment of the Supreme Court of Miluissippi, affirming a judgment against the railroad company

in an action brought by the present respondent to recover for the loss of goods shipped on petitioner's railroad. The facts are stated in the opinion, post, 543.
Mr. Chares N. Burch, with whom Mr. H. D. Minor,
Mr. Clinton H. McKay and Mr. W. S. Hortonwere on the
brief, for petitioners:
The first clause refers to a public staion, wharf or landing; the second clause refers to private wharves or landings and private sidings, and also to all other sidings,

YAZOO & M. V. R. &. CO. v. NICHOLS & CO. 541
540.

Argument for Petitioners.

whether the same be quasi-private or public, or quasipublic, but not including those public side tracks which
are immediately adjacent to and serve a public station,
and from which freight is unloaded into a public depot
or loaded from a public depot into cars on such public
sidings. The words "private or other sidings " do not
include side tracks, team tracks, or house tracks immediately adjacent to a freight house, which are an
integral part of the public freight house facilities. The
last mentioned sidings are included in the term "station "
in the first clause, as such tracks are as much a part of
the station as the station platform. It appears from this
record that there is what is called a house track which is
immediately parallel with and adjacent to the freight
depot and platforms.
At a station where an agent is maintained, the railroad
becomes responsible as soon as goods are deposited on
the freight house floor or platform, or placed in a car
which is on a track which serves the freight house, and
a bill of lading is issued.
The first clause means that if a carrier has a public
station, wharf or landing, at which it does not maintain
a regularly appointed agent, the carrier shall be responsible until inbound goods are unloaded from the cars, and
as soon as outbound goods are loaded into cars.
The second clause means that. when a party receives or
delivers goods, not at a regular freight house, or not at a
track serving the regular freight house, but on a private
or other siding, then the liability of the carrier as a
common carrier shall not begin until (as to outbound
freight), the loaded cars are attached to trains, and as to
inbound freight the common carrier's liability shall cease
when cars are detached from trains.
We insist that where the shipper loads his own freight,
as is the case here, and loads it at a public station, wharf,
or landing, at which there is no regularly appointed

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argumt for Pektionerm

.266 U .

agent, the liability of the carrier under the first clause
attaches as soon as the goods are loaded into a car; and
we further insist that when a shipper does not choose to
load his freight at a regular public freight house, but,
on the other hand, chooses to load his freight at a private
wharf or private landing or on any kind of a side track
(which does not serve a public freight house), then the
liability of the common carrier does not attach until
the car containing such goods is attached to a train.
It is not reasonable to expect the station agent to'have
supervision of and to take care of property in cars on side
tracks which are not immediately at a station building,
but which are some distance therefrom, and particularly
when the side track is located on land not belonging to
the railroad company.
The court Judicially knows that a large part of the
tonnage of the country is loaded into cars which are on
tracks quite remote from the place of business of the local
station or depot agent. As to such cars the railroad company has a right to insist that its liability as a common
carrier shall not begin until such cars are attached to
trains. No one is required to load his freight on a private
side track or a public side track remote from the regular
depot. A shipper has the right if he chooses to deliver
his freight at the regular freight depot or to load it into
cars placed immediately adjacent to the regular freight
depot. If the shipper, for his own convenience, elects to
load his cars at some other point, then, certainly the
carrier has a right to say that, in such event, the carrier's
liability as a common carrier or insurer, shall not begin
until the cars are attached to a train-until the cars are
in the actual, as dis-tinguished from the constructive
possession of the carrier.
The loading in this case was done by the shipper on
private property at a gin owned by a third party and a
thousand feet dLtnt from the station. Under these

YAZOO & M. V. R. R. CO. v. NICHOLS & CO. 543
540.

Opinion of the Court.

facts we insist that the exemption granted by the last
clause applies with full force.
Mr. John W. Cutrer, with whom Mr. Sam C. Cook, Jr.,
and Mr. John C. Cutrer were on the brief, for respondent.
Ma. JusTIcE BRA.%-Exs delivered the opinion of thf
court.
In November, 1917, the Yazoo & Mississippi Valley
Railroad Company issued to "Nichols & Company a bill
of lading for 31 bales of cotton which had been loaded
into a box car at Alligator, Mississippi, for shipment to
Memphis, Tennessee. Before the loaded car had been
attached to any train or engine it was destroyed by fire.
The shipper sued in a state court of Mississippi to recover
the value of the cotton. The carrier contended that by
the terms of the bill of lading it was relieved from liability.
The prov ision relied upon was the second clause of the
last paragraph of section 5 of the Uniform Bill of Lading,
approved by the Interstate Commerce Commission
June 27, 1908, and duly filed and published as part of
the railroad's tariff. The paragraph referred to is this:
"Property destined to or taken from a station, wharf,
or landing at which there is no regularly appointed agent

shall be entirely at risk of owner after unloaded from cars
or vessels or until loaded into cars or vessels, and when
received from or delivered on private or other sidings,
wharves, or landings shall be at owner's risk until the
cars are attached to and after they are detached from
trains."

The shippers insisted that the provision did not apply,
because at Alligator there was a regularly appointed agent
and that the second clause of the paragraph, like the first,
was applicable only to stations where there was none.
The shippers also contended, on the following facts which

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. E

were undisputed, that the place where the car was received was, in effect, a part of the carrier's terminal and
not a "private or other " siding within the meaning of
the above provision.
The cotton had been loaded from the platform of a gin
located at the blind end of a spur which leads from the
main line at a point near the depot. The spur which
is 1,000 feet long had been built by the railroad many
years before at its own expense. About half of it is on the
railroad right of way and runs parallel to the main line;
the rest is on private land. Under the contract for building the spur the landowner furnished free the right of way
over his own land; but the railroad was to have full control over the spur and reserved the right to abandon it at
any time and remove the track material. The spur was
used generally by the public for loading and unloading
carload freight. The only track scale at Alligator was
on it--as was also another gin.
Each party requested a directed verdict. A verdict
was directed for the shippers. The judgment entered
theren was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Mississippi
on the ground that the clause in question applies only to
stations at which there is no regularly appointed agent.
120 Mississippi, 690. In the appellate courts of the States
in which the question had arisen the decisions were conflicting.' For this reason a writ of certiorari was granted.
251 U. S. 550. The only question requiring decision here
1Th elm was held not applicable in McCture v. Norfolk & Westeran
Ry. Co., 83 W. Va. 473; Jolly v. Atdson, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry.
Co., 21Cal. App. 368. It was applied under different facts in Chickasaw

Cooperage Co. v. Yazoo & Mississippi Valley R. R. Co., 141 Arkansas,
71; Standad Combed Thread Co. v. Pennsylzunia R. R. Co., 88 N. J. L.
257; Bers v. Brie R. R.Co., 225 N. Y. 543;163 N. Y. Supp. 114; Siebert
v. Erie R. R. Co., 163 N. Y. Supp. 111. See also Bianchi &
a v.
Montpdie & Wels Rif R. R., 92 Vermont, 319; BainbridgeGrocery

Co. v. Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co., 8 Ga. App. 677.

YAZOO & M. V. R. R. CO. v. NICHOLS & CO.
540.

545

Opinion of the Coart.

is whether the court below gave the correct construction
to the clause. In our opinion it did.
Whether goods destroyed, lost or damaged while at a
railroad station were then in the possession of the carrier
as such, so as to subject it to liability in the absence of
negligence, had, before the adoption of the Uniform Bill
of Lading, been the subject of much litigation. At
stations where there is a regularly appointed agent the
field for controversy could be narrowed by letting the
execution of a bill of lading or receipt evidence delivery
to and acceptance by the carrier; and by letting delivery
of goods to the consignee be evidenced by surrender of
the bill or execution of a consignee's receipt. But at nonagency stations this course is often not feasible. There
the field for controversy as to the facts was particularly
inviting and the reasons persuasive for limiting the
carrier's liability. Local freight trains are often late.
Shippers or consignees cannot be expected to attend on
their arrival. Less than carload freight awaiting shipment must ordinarily be left on the station platform to
be picked up by the passing train and lots arriving must
be dropped on the platform to be called for by the consignee. At such stations the situation in respect to carload freight is not materially different. And this is true
whether the car be loaded for shipment on the public
siding or on a neighboring private siding, and whether
the arriving loaded car be shunted onto a public siding
or a private siding. There carload, as well as less than
carload, freight, whether outgoing or incoming, must
ordinarily be left unguarded for an appreciable time. It
is not unreasonable that shippers at such stations should
bear the risks naturally attendant upon the use. The
reason why an agent is not appointed is that the traffic
to and from the station would not justify the expense.
The station is established for the convenience of shippers
customarily using it. And the paragraph here in question

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

was apparently designed to shift the risk from the carrier
to shipper or consignee of both classes of freight. It does
so in the case of less than carload freight by having the
carrier's liability begin when the goods are put on board
cars and end when they are taken off. It does so in the
case of carload freight by limiting liability to the time
when the car is attached to or detached from the train.
But, at a station where there is a regularly appointed
agent, it would be obviously unreasonable to place upon
the shipper, after a bill of lading has issued, the risks
attendant upon the loaded car remaining on the public
siding because it has not yet been convenient for the
carrier to start it on its journey. It would likewise be
unreasonable to place upon the consignee at such a station
the risk attendant upon the arriving car's remaining
on the siding before there has been notice to the consignee
of arrival and an opportunity to accept delivery. The
situation there would be practically the same whether the
loaded cars were left standing on a public siding or on a
siding to a private industry on the railroad's right of way,
as in Swift & Co. v. Hocking Vailey Ry. Co., 243 U. S. 281,
or on a siding, partly on the railroad's right of way and
partly on private land, as in Chicago & Northwestern Ry.
Co. v. Och, 249 U. S. 416, and Lake Erie & Western R. R.
Co. v. State Public Utilities Commission, 249 U. S. 422,
when the siding is, either by state law or by agreement
and in fact, a part of the carrier's terminal system.
If we approach the construction of the second clause
of the last paragraph of section 5 of the Uniform Bill of
Lading in the light of this practical situation all doubt
as to its meanin must vanish. It could not have been
intended that at stations where there are regularly appointed agents outgoing loaded cars for which bills of
lading have issued and which are left standing on a siding
solely to await the carrier's convenience are to be at the
risk of the shipper. And this is true whether the siding

UNITED STATES v. PFITSCH.
540.

Syllabus.

be a strictly public one, or a semi-public one as in the
Ochs and Lake Erie & Western Cases, supra, and the case
at bar; or whether it be a siding privately used but owned
by the railroad as in the Swift Case, upra; and in such
cases the fact that the spur extends over land not part of
the carrier's right of way is immaterial. The construction
contended for by the railroad, even if not applied to team
tracks in the freight yards of a great cit', would place
all loaded cars arriving elsewhere at. the owner's risk from
the moment they were detached from a train, although
the consignee had not even been notified of their arrival.
It is clear that the immunity conferred by the last
paragraph of section 5 does not apply to loaded cars on
the spur here involved. Whether the same rule should
apply to cars on strictly private industry tracks effectively
separated from the terminal and exclusively under private
control, like the industry tracks involved in Bers v. Erie
R. R. Co., 225 N. Y. .543, we have no occasion to determine

Affin d.

UNITED STATES v. PFITSCH.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE ULNTED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 246.

Arued March 22. 1921; restored to docket for reargument on

question of jurisdiction April 11, 1921; reargued April 25, 1921.-Decided June 1, 1921.
Section 10 of the Lever Act 'August 10, 1917, c. 53, 40 Stat. 276, 279),
pro iding that any person dissat -fied with the President's award for
supplies requisitioned under that section shall receive 759 of the
award and may -ue the United States for the balance claimed, confers

jurisdiction on the District Courts 'to hear and determine all such
controver-sie.-s" -- while other -ectioms oi the act providing for requisi-

