ECONOMY LIGHT CO. v. UNITED STATES.

113

8yllabua.

94.

immunities of citizens of the United States, within the
meaning of the same Amendment, is not pressed, and
plainly is untenable. As has been pointed out repeatedly,
the privileges and immunities referred to in the Amendment are only such as owe their existence to the Federal
Government, its national character, its Constitution,
or its laws. Maxwi v. Bugbee, 250 U. S. 525, 537-538,
and cases cited. The privileges and immunities of plaintiff in error alleged to be abridged by the statutes in questfQ have no such federal origin.

The judgment under review is
Affirmed.
Mn. Jusncar
M

McRzyNoLS concurs in the 'result.

Cmu i Juercz and MR. JusrcE CLARKm dissent.

ECONOMY LIGHT & POWER COMPANY v.
UNITED STATES.
APP1AL FROM THE CIRCUIr COURT OF APPF.A&L

FOR THE

SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 104. Argued December 17, 1920.-Decided April 11, 1921.
1. Artificial obstructions subject to abatement by public authority
do not render non-navigable in law a stream which in its natural
state would be navigable in fact. P. I1.
2. Tbe authority o- Congress to prohibit added obstructions to a
navigable stream is not lost by omission to take action in previous
cases. P. 118.
The Desplames River in Illinois which was used from a very early
day to about the year 1825 as a link in a well-known route between
Lake Michigan and the Mississippi, in the transportation of furs
and supplies by canoes and other light-draft boats, but has not since

114

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

256 U. S.

been used for transportation and is not thus useful under existing
eonditions, held a navigable water of the United States and within
the act of Congress forbidding unauthorized obstructioms. Act of,
March 3, 1899, c. 425, §9, 30 Stat. 1151. Pp. 117, 123.
4. The public interest in navigable streams of this character in Illinois
and neighboring States, and the federal authority over such as are
capable of serving interstate commerce, arises not from custom or
implication, but from the declaration of the 4th Article of the compact in the Ordinance of July 13, 1787, for the government of the
Northwest Territory, that the navigable waters leading into the
Mississippi and St. Lawrence, and the carrying places between the
same, shall be common highways and forever free, etc.,-a principle
which was reiterated in later acts of Congress and accepted by Illinois
in her constitution at the time of her admission as a State. P. 118.
5. In so far as the Ordinance of 1787 thus established public rights of
highway in navigable waters capable of bearing commerce from
State to State, it was no more subject to repeal by a State than
any other regulation of interstate commerce enacted by Congress.
P. 120.
6. The power of the States to regulate such navigable waters is plenary
within their borders until Congress intervenes, but Congress has
the power to assume entire control whenever itchooses, unhampered
by previous acts of the States, and this supreme authority applies
to States formed out of the Northwest Territory as well as to others,
and may be exercised through general ap well as special laws. P. 121.
7. A river may be navigable in law though it contain natural obstructions and though it be not open to navigation at all seasons or at all
stages of water. P. 121.
8. A decision of a state Suprnme Court holding a river not navigable
in its natural condition does not bind the United States if it was not a
party to the suit. P. 123.
9. A river having actual navigable capacity in its natural state and
capable of carrying commerce among the States is within the power
of Congress to preserve for purposes of future transportation, even
though it be not at present used for such commerce and be incapable
of such use according to present methods, either by reason of changed
conditions or because of artificial obstructions. P. 123.
10. Ile provisions of §9 of the Act of March 3, 1899, supra, applicable
in terms to "any navigable river or other navigable water of the
United States," cannot be limited to such waters a were at-the
date of the act, or as now are, actually open to use. P. 123.
11. Where there was no application under the statute, but the party

ECONOMY LIGHT CO. v. UNITED STATES.
I1M

115

Opinion of the Cowt.

dmiring to build a dam merely submitted its plans to the Secretary
of War at an informal hearng and asured him that the stream was
not navigable, held that his refusal to act, upon the ground that
that condition left the steam without his jurisdiction, imported
neithe an approval of the project n an inquiry concerning navigbility. P. 12.
256'Fed. Rep. 79, affirumed.
THE cam8

is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Frmnk H. Scott for appellat.
Mr. Clarence N Goodwin, Special Assistant to the
Attorney General, with whom The Solicitor General was
on the brief, for the United States.
MI. JuwncE PrMY delivered the opinion of the court.
This was a suit brought by the United States against
appelant in the District Court for the Northern District
of Ilinois, Eastern Division, for an injunction to restrain
defendant from constructing a dam in the Desplaines
River at a point in Grundy County, Illinois, without the
consent of Congress or authority of the legislature of the
State, and without approval of the location and plans
by the Chief of Engineers and the Secretary of War of the
United States. Relief was prayed upon two grounds:
(1) that the river bed where the dam was being constructed was the property of the United States; (2) that
the Desplaines River was a navigable waterway of the
United States, and the proposed construction of a dam
therein was in violation of the Act of Congress of March 3,
1899, c. 425, § 9,30 Stat. 1121, 1151. The first ground was
overruled by the District Court and disregarded by the
Circuit Court of Appeals. We need not consider it further. The second ground was sustained by the District
Court, and its final decree granting an injunction was

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals, 256 Fed. Rep.
792. The present appeal followed.
Section 7 of Act of September 19, 1890, c. 907, 26 Stat.
426, 454, makes it unlawful to build any dam or other
structure in any navigable river or other waters of the
United States, so as to obstruct or ippair navigation,
without permissioq,;of the Secretary of War. Section 9
of the Act of March 3, 1899 (30 Stat. 115f) declares:
"That it shall not be lawful to construct or commence
the construction of any bridge, dam, Idike, or causeway
over or in any . . . navigable rivei, or other navigable water of the United States until the consent of Congres to the building of such structures shall have been
obtained and until the plans for the same shall have been
submitted to and approved by the Chief of Engineers and

by the Secretary of War: Provide, That such structures
may be built under authority of the legislature of a State
acss rivers and other waterways the navigable porticn of which lie wholly within the limits of a single
State, provided the location and plans thereof are sub-

mitted 'to and approved by the Chief of Engineers and
by the Secretary of War before construction is commeed. ..
There is no contention that the consent of Congress for
the building of the proposed dam has been obtained, that

its construction has been authorized by the legislature of
the State of Illinois, or that the location and plans have
been submitted to and approved by the Chief of Engineers
and the Secretary of War. The substantial defense is
that the Desplaines River, at the site of the proposed
dam, which is below the City of Joliet and just above the

point where the Desplaines joins the Kankakee to form
the Illinois River, is not navigable in fact and not within
the description "navigable river, or other navigable
water of the United States," as employed in the Act of
1899.

ECONOMY LIGHT CO. Y. UNITED STATES.

117

Opinion of the Court.

113.

The District Court found that there was no evidence of
actual navigation within the memory of living men, and
that there would be no present interference with navigation by the building of the proposed dam. The Circuit
Court of Appeals did not disturb this finding. 256 Fed.
Rep. 792, 798. But both courts found that in its natural
state the river was navigable in fact, and that it was
actually used for the purposes of navigation and trading in
the customary way, and with the kinds of craft ordinarily
in use for that purpose on rivers of the United States,
from early fur-trading days (about 1675) down to the
end of the first quarter of the nineteenth century. De,
tails are given in the opinion of the Circuit Court of
Appeals, and need not be repeated. Suffice it to say that,
there was a well-known route by water, called the ChicagoDesplaines-Ilinois route, running up the Chicago River
from its mouth on Lake Michigan to a point on the west
fork of the south branch; thence westerly by water or
portage, according to the season, to Mud Lake, about
2 miles; thence to the Desplaines near Riverside, 2 miles;
thence down the Desplaines to the confluence of that
river with the Kankakee, where they form the llinois
River; thence down the Illinois to its junction with the

issippi

During the period mentioned the fur trade

was a leading branch of commerce in the western teitory, and it was regularly conducted upon the Desplaines
River. Supplies in large quantity and variety, needed!
by the early settlers, also were transported over this
route between Chicago and St. Louis and other points.
Canoes and other boats of various kinds were employed,
having light draft but capable of carrying several tons
each, and manned by crews of six or eight men The
route was navigated by the American Fur Company
regularly during a period of years down to about 1825,
after which it was disused because the trade had receded
to interior portions of Illinois that could be reached

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
. Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

more conveniently with horses. Later, changes occurred
in the river, due to the drainage of a swamp in the region
of the portage, the clearing away of forests affecting the
rainfall and the distribution of the run-off, and thus
shortening the duration of the higher stages of water;
the construction (under state authority) of the Illinois
and Michigan Canal in 1848 and its deepening in 1866

to 1871, which diverted a part of the hill drainage towards
the Chicago River; and the construction of the Sanitary
and Ship Canal in 1892 to 1894.
But, in spite of these changes, the Circuit Court of
Appeals finds (256 Fed. Rep. 804) that the Desplaines

River is a continuous stretch of water from Riverside
(at the Chicago divide) to its mouth; and although there
is a rapid, and in places shallow water, with boulders

and obstructions, yet these things do not affect its navigable capacity; that the same is true of the upper part of
the Illinois River above the head of steamboat navigation; and that both streams are navigable and are within
the Act of 1899.
Since about the year 1835 a number of dams have been
built in the Desplaines, without authority from the United
States, and one or more of them still remain; besides, a
considerable number of bridges of various kinds span the
river. The fact, however, that artificial obstructions
exist capable of being abated by due exercise of the public
authority, does not prevent the stream from being regarded as navigable in law, if, supposing them to be
abated, it be navigable in fact in its natural state. The
authority of Congress to prohibit added obstructions is
not taken away by the fact that it has omitted to take
action in previous cases.
The public interest in navigable streams of this character in Illinois and neighboring States, and the federal
authority over such as are capable of serving commerce
among the States, does not arise from custom or implica-

ECONOMY LIGHT CO. v. UNITED STATES.
113.

119

Opinion of the Court.

tion, but has a very definite origin. By Article 4 of the:
compat in the Ordinance of July 13, 1787, for the government of the territory northwest of the river Ohio, it
was declared: "The navigable waters leading into the
Mississippi and Saint Lawrence, and the carrying places
between the same, shall be common highways, and forever free, as well to the inhabitants of the said territory,
as to the citizens of the United States, and those of any
other States that may be admitted into the confederacy,
without any tax, impost, or duty therefor." 1 Stat. 51,
52, note; Rev. Stats. U. S., 1878 ed., pp. 13, 16. This
was under the Confederation; but the first Congress
under the new Constitution expressed a design to have it
continue in full effect, in the Act of August 7, 1789, c. 8,
1 Stat. 50. A purpose to preserve the rights of public
highway in the navigable rivers. was again manifested
in § 9 of Act of May 18, 1796, c. 29, 1 Stat. 464, 468. The
Territory of Indiana (including what is now Illinois) was
set apart and organized by Act of May 7, 1800, which in
§2 reiterated that purpose, (c. 41, 2 Stat. 58, 59); and in
an act providing for the disposal of the public lands therein
(Act of March 26, 1804, c. 35, § 6, 2 Stat. 277, 279-280),
it was again declared "that all the navigable rivers, creeks
and waters, within the Indiana territory, shall be deemed
to be and remain public highways." Illinois -s set
apart and a separate territorial government established
therein by Act of February 3, 1809, c. 13, 2 Stat. 514.
By § 2, the government was to be "in all respects similar"
to that provided by the Ordinance of 1787 and the Act
of August 7, 1789, and the inhabitants were to enjoy all
the rights, privileges, and conditions granted by the
Ordinance. -An Act to enable the people of linois to
form a state government, approved April 18, 1818, c. 67,
3 Stat. 428, contained a proviso (§ 4, p. 430) that such
government should not be repugnant to the Ordinance
of 1787. The state constitution declared its pulrpose to

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

Opinion of the Court.

256 U. &

be consistent with the Ordinance, and the resolution of
Congress declaring admission of the State into the Union
(December 3, 1818, 3 Stat. 536) acknowledged that the
constitution and state government were "in conformity
to the principles of the articles of compact" in the Ordinance of 1787.
There can be no doubt that the waters of the ChicagoDesplaines-Illinois route "and the carrying places between the same" constituted one of the routes of commerce intended by the Ordinance, and the subsequent,
acts referred to, to be maintained as common highways.
It did not make them navigable in law unless they were
navigable in fact, but declared the public rights therein so
far as they were navigable in fact; and it is curious and
interesting that the importance of these inland waterways, and the inappropriateness of the tidal test in defining our navigable waters, was thus recognized by the
Congress of the Confederation more than 80 years before
this court decided The Daniel Ball, 10 WalL 557, 563,
and more than 60 years before The Propeller Genesee Chief
v. Fitzhugh, 12 How. 443, 455.
To the extent that it pertained to internal affairs, the
Ordinance of 1787-notwithstanding its contractual form
-was no more than a regulation of territory belonging to
the United States, and was superseded by the admission
of the State of Illinois into the Union "on an equal footing
with the original States in all respects whatever." Permoli
v. First Municipality, 3 How. 589, 610; Van Brocklin v.
Tennessee, 117 U. S. 151, 159; Hawkins v. Bleakly, 243
U. S. 210, 217. But, so far as it established public rights
of highway in navigable waters capable of bearing commerce from State to State, it did not regulate internal
affairs alone, and was no more capable of repeal by one
of the States than any other regulation of interstate commerce enacted by the Congress; being analogous in this
respect to legislation enacted under the exclusive power

ECONOMY LIGHT CO. v. UNITED STATES.
113.

121

Opinion of the Court.

of Congress to.regulate commerce with the Indian tribes.
Pollards Ltswe v. Hagan, 3 How. 212, 229-230; Ex parte
Webb, 225 U. S. 663, 683, 690-691; United States v. Sandoval, 231 U. S. 28, 38.
Nothing inconsistent with this was decided in Escanaba
Co. v. Chicago, 107 U. S. 678, 688-689; Huse v. Gover.
119 U. S. 543, 546; Sands v. Manistee River Improment
Co., 123 U. S. 288, 295, 296; Willamette Iron Bridge Co.
v. Hatch, 125 U. S. 1, 8-11. Those cases simply hold, in
effect, that a State formed out of a part of the Northwest
Territory has the same power to regulate navigable waters
within its borders that is possessed by other States of the
Union; that is to say, until Congresd intervenes, the
power of the State, locally exerted, is plenary; nevertheless, where the navigation serves commerce among the
States or with foreign nations, Congress has the supreme
power when it chooses to act, and is not prevented, by
anything the States may have done, from assuming
entire control in the matter. In short, that the rule laid
down in Wilson v. Black-bird Creek Marsh Co., 2 Pet.
245, 252, and GOiman v. Ph'ladelphia, 3 Wall. 713, 731,
applies to States formed out of the Northwest Territory
as well as to others. This is not questioned. But, as
was recognized in the Oiman Case (p. 731), Congress
may exercise its authority through general as well as
through special laws, its power in either case being supreme. The Act of 1899 (30 Stat. 1151), upon which the
present bill is founded, is a due assertion of the authority
of Congress over all navigable waters within its jurisdiction; and it must be accorded due weight as such.
The Circuit Court of Appeals, in passing upon the
question of navigability, correctly applied the test laid
down by this court in The Dt.niel Ball, 10 Wall. 557, 563;
and The Montello, 20 Wall. 430, 440-443; that is, the test
whether the river, in its natural state, is used, or capable
of being used as a highway for comierce, over which

OCrOBER TERM, 1920
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

trade and travel is or may be conducted in the customary
modes of trade and travel on water. Navigability, in the
sense of the law, is not destroyed because the watercourse
is interrupted by occasional natural obstructions or
portages; nor need the navigation be open at all seasons of
the year, or at all stages of the water.
In The Montelto, supra, the question was whether Fox
River, in the State of Wisconsin, was a navigable water
of the United States within the meaning of acts of Congress. Originally there were rapids and falls in the river,
but these had been obviated by locks, canals, and dams,
so as to furnish an uninterrupted water communication for
steam vessels of a considerable capacity. It was argued
(p. 440) that although since these improvements the
river might be considered as a highway for commerce conducted in the ordinary modes, it was not so in its natural
state, and therefore not navigable under the decision in
The Daniel Bal, supra. The court, accepting navigability
in the Datural state of the river as the correct test, proceeded to show that, before the improvements resulting
in an unbroken navigation, and when a few portages were
necessary, a large and successful interstate commerce had
been carried through the river by means of Durham boats;
and, speaking by Mr. Justice Davis, proceeded to say
(p. 441) that, even aside from the Ordinance of 1787,
"the true test of the navigability of a stream does not
depend on the mode by which commerce is, or may be,
conducted, nor the difficulties attending navigation. If
this were so, the public would be deprived of the use of
many of the large rivers of the country over which rafts
of lumber of great value are constantly taken to market.
It would be a narrow rule to hold that in this country,
unless a river was capable of being navigated by steam or
sail vessels, it could not be treated as a public highway.
The capability of use by the public for purposes of transportation and commerce affords the true criterion of the

ECONOMY LIGHT CO. v. UNITED STATES.
113.

123

Opinion of the Court.

navigability of a river, rather than the extent and manner
of that use. If it be capable in its natural state of being
used for purposes of commerce, no matter in what mode
the commerce may be conducted, it is navigable in fact,
and becomes in law a public river or highway." Proceeding to say (p. 442) that notwithstanding the fact that
before the improvements there were obstructions to an
unbroken navigation, which rendered the navigation
difficult and prevented the adoption of modern agencies,
commerce was successfully carried on, the court pointed
out (p. 442) that the Ordinance of 1787 recognized "carrying-places" as a part of a navigable waterway.
Our attention is called to the fact that in People v.
Economy Power Co., 241 Illinois, 290, 320-338, the Supreme Court of Illinois held that the Desplaines in its
natural condition is not a navigable stream; and it is
intimaed that we ought to follow that decision. A writ of
error brought to review it was dismissed by us because
no federal question was involved (234 U. S. 497, 510, 524).
Of course, toe decision does not render the matter res
jud
as the United States was not a party. The
Ditrict Court in the present case treated it as not persuasive, because it appeared that evidence was wanting
which is present here; and we cannot say that the court
below erred in not following it.
We concur in the opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals that a river having actual navigable capacity in its
natural state and capable of carrying commerce among
the States, is within the power of Congress to preserve for
purposes of future transportation, even though it be not
at present used for such commerce, and be incapable of
such use according to present methods, either by reason of
changed conditions or because of artificial obstructions.
And we agree that the provisions of § 9 of the Act of
1899 (30 Stat. 1151) apply to such a stream. The act in
terms applies to "any
navigable river, or other
.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

navigable water of the United States"; and, without
doing violence to its manifest purpose, we cannot limit
its prohibition to such navigable waters as -were, at the
time of its passage, or now are, actually open for use.
The Desplaines River, after being of practical service as a
highway of commerce for a century and a half, fell into
disuse, partly through changes in the course of trade or
methods of navigation, or changes in its own condition,
partly as the result of artificial obstructions. In consequence, it has been out of use for a hundred years; but a
hundred years is a brief space in the life of a nation; improvements in the methods of water transportation or
increased cost in other methods of transportation may
iestore the usefulness of this stream; since it is a natural
interstate waterway, it is within the power of Congress to
improve it at the public expense; and it is not difficult to
believe that many other streams are in like condition and
require only the exertion of federal control to make them
again important avenues of commerce among the States.
If they are to be abandoned, it is for Congress, not the
courts, so to declare. The policy of Congress is clearly
evidenced in the Act of 1899, and, in the present case at
least, nothing remains but to give effect to it.
It is contended that, supposing the Desplaines is navigable, the purpose of the Act of 1899 was in effect accomplished because appellant or its predecessor, before proceeding with the enterprise, submitted the plans for the
proposed dam to the War Department, and that Department "in substance gave its approval," although it did
not formally approve the plans because it did not consider the Desplaines River a navigable water of the United
States. It appears, however, that there was no application for an approval under the Act of 1899, and the
Department was not called upon -to exercise its jurisdiction under that act. There was an informal hearing
before the Secretary, at which the representatives of

WALL P. CHEF. & OHIO RY. CO.
113.

Counsel for Parties.

appellant. assuring him that the Desplaines was not a
navigable stream either in law or in fact, and that the
Department had no jurisdiction over it, asked not for a
permit, but in effect for an assurance that no permit was
necessary. The Secretary declined to act because, as the
river was not navigable, he had no jurisdiction. We cannot regard this as equivalent to an approval, either in
form or effect, or even as an official inquiry into the
navigability of the river.

Decree affirmed.
MR. JuSwTcE McRymoi~s took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

WALL, ADMINISTRATRIX OF WALL, v. CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 237.

Argued March 21, 1-21.-Dedded April 11, 1921.

A federal question which could have been raised before but was first
raissd in the state Supreme Court by a petition for rehearing, which
that court merey ovemiled, does not confer jurisdiction on this

CourL
Writ of error to review 290 Illinois, 227, dismissed.

TmE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. C. Paul Tallmadge, with whom Mr. Almon W.
Bulkley and Mr. Clair E. More were on the brief, for
plaintiff in error.
Mr. Worth E. Caylor for defendant in error.

