OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Counsel for Parties.

256 U.S.

EX PARTE IN THE MATER OF LINCOLN GAS
& ELECTRIC LIGHT COMPANY, PETITIONER.
ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDAMUM
No. 29, Original

Argued Mar& 15,16, 1921.-Decided June 1, 1921.

In a suit brought by a gas company against a city to enjoin the enforcment of an ordinance rate alleged to be confiscatory, this
court by its fraer decision (250 U. S. 256) affirmed, with modifica,
tions, the decree of the District Court dismnsing the bill, and issued
its mandate, reciting the decision and directing "that such execu-

tion and pceedin be had in said cause as according to right and
justice . . . ought to be had, the said appeal notwithstanding."
Hd& (1) That the court below had jurisdiction, through a special
master, to ascertain the amounts collected by the company from

its cutomers, in excess of the ordinance rate. pending the litigation,
and to require repayment thereof, with interest, in accordance with
the terms of a bond that the company filed in the cause in order to

obtain a mpersedeas, with continuance of injunction, pending its
appeal. P. 516.
(2) That the absence of the customers as parties was no obstacle to
mch enforcement of their equitable rights, represented in the ltg
tion by the city and recognized and protected by the bond. P. 517.
(3) That the fact that the affirmance modified the lower court's decree
so as to dismis the bill without prejudice to the filing of another in
ease changed conditions should render the rate confiscatory, did not
restrict the lower court's jurisdiction to the overcharges made before
its decree was entered, since the ordinance rate remained presummably valid until proven otherwise in a new suit, and the bond required
repayment of all overcharges colected while the company had the
benefit of the injunction pending the appeal P. 518.

Rule discharged.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Robert A. Brown, with whom Mr. Maxwell V.
Beghtol and 1r. Charles A. Frueauff were on the briefs,
for petitioner.

Mr. C. Petrus Peterson for the City of Lincoln.

EX PARTE LINCOLN GAS CO.
512.

Opinion of the Cout.

MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

Following our decision in Lincoln Gas & Electric Light
Co. v. City of Lincoln, June 2, 1919, 250 U. S. 256, our
mandate went down to the District Court of the United
States for the District of Nebraska, reciting our determination that its decree of September 23, 1915, should be
modified as indicated in the opinion, and as so modified
should be affirmed with costs; and proceeding as follows:
"You, therefore, are hereby commanded that such execution and proceedings be had in said cause as according
to right and justice, and the laws of the United States,
ought to be had, the said appeal notwithstanding."
Upon the filing of this mandate, the District Court,
on January 6, 1920, entered an order modifying its decree
of September 23, 1915, as particularly required, and, at
the same time, made an order retaining jurisdiction for
the purpose of requiring the company to make refund
and restitution to consumers of gas for all amounts collected over and above the legal rate pending the litigation,
with interest, in accordance with the terms of a bond
that the company had filed in the cause in order to obtain
a supersedeas, with a continuance of injunction, pending
its appeal from the decree of September 23, 1915. An
appeal from the order retaining jurisdiction, taken by
the company to this court, was dismissed because the
order lacked finality. 253 U. S. 477. The mandate upon
the dismissal again commanded the District Court "that
such proceedings be had in said cause, as according to
right and justice, and the laws of the United States, ought
to be had, the said appeal notwithstanding." This
having gone down, the court appointed a master, with
direction to examine the books and amvounts of the
company and prepare an account of the amounts paid
by consumers in excess of the ordinance rates during the
pendency of any restraining order or injunction in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

cause; with other provisions not necessary to be mentioned.
The company applied to this court, obtained leave for
the purpose, and filed a petition for a writ of mandamus
to command the judge of the District Court to nullify
and revoke the above mentioned orders and refrain from
asuming jurisdiction over the cause as aforesaid. An
order to show cause was issued, proper return thereto
made by the judge, and the matter has been argued.
From the petition and return the following additional
particulars appear: The original suit was commenced
December 27, 1906, in the United States Circuit (now
District) Court, by the company against the city and its
officials as defendants seeking (among other things) to
enjoin the enforcement of an ordinance regulating the
price to be charged for gas. At the outset a restraining
order was obtained, and this was followed by a temporary
injunction continued in force until final decree, and afterwards, pending an appeal to this court (223 U. S. 349),
under a bond conditioned to account for overcharges if
the rate ordinance should be sustainec. After this first
appeal, the litigation was continued until September 23,
1915, when the District Court made a final decree sustaining the rate ordinance and dismissing the bill. An
application for allowance of an appeal to this court, with
a supersedeas to keep the injunction in effect; was granted
November 22, 1915, upon approval of a supersedeas
bond tendered by the company for the purpose, in the
penal sum of $575,000, to be paid to the clerk of the District Court for the benefit of all gas consumers who had
purchased gas from the company during the pendency
of the action from its commencement, and all consumers
who should purchase gas thereafter until the final determination of the suit; with a condition reciting the decree
of September 23, 1915, and the temporary injunction
theretofore granted to restrain the putting into effect

EX PARTE LINCOLN GAS CO.
512.

Opinion of the Court.

of the rate ordinance, and providing that if the company
should prosecute its appeal to effect, or failing to make its
appeal good should answer all costs and damages and
refund all overcharges collected from gas consumers
above the price fixed by said ordinance, and should pay
to the clerk of the District Court or his successor in office,
for the benefit of all whom it might concern and in particular for the benefit of all consumers entitled to refunds,
all overcharges collected since the granting of the original
injunction, together with interest thereon, when the
several parties lawfully entitled and the amount of refund
due to each should have been ascertained in the action
in such manner as the court should direct, the determination to be binding upon all parties to the bond, then
the obligation should be void, otherwise to remain in
force.
This appeal resulted in our decision of June 2, 1919,
affirming the decree, with two modifications, one of which
related to an occupation tax that was under attack in
the same suit, but is not now material; the other was, to
cause the dismissal of the suit as to the rate ordinance
to be without prejudice to the commencement of a new
action thereafter to restrain enforcement of the ordinance
if it could be shown to be confiscatory in its effect under
the new conditions.
Thus it appears that, during the entire course of this
protracted litigation (except for a period when the eompany put the prescribed rate into effect as a test), the
operation of the ordinance was suspended at theinstance
of the company, upon terms obliging it and its surety to
refund all overcharges should it fail to make good its
attack upon the established rate, and binding it to abide
Dy the determination of the court in the same cause as
to the amounts due, and pay the entire amount thus
ascertained, with interest, to the clerk of the court, for
the benefit of the consumers. According to the com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
)pinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

pany's own statement, its books showing the accounts
between it and its customers during the period from
1906 to 1920 contain more than 25,000 accounts, which
are involved and complicated by other charges, so that
an examination of them would involve much time and
expense.
. The principal contention upon which the petition for
mandamus is rested is that, under our mandate following
the decision of June 2, 1919, and the more recent one on
dismissal of the subsequent appeal, no jurisdiction was
conferred upon the District Court to take any action
except to affirm its decree of September 23, 1915, dismissing the bill of complaint, after modifying the decree
in the two particulars specified. It is said that, after an
appeal, the court below has jurisdiction to proceed only
in conformity with the direction of the mandate of the
appellate court. This may be conceded, But here our
mandate expressly commanded "that such execution
and proceedings be had in said cause as according to
right and justice, and the laws of the United States, ought
to be had, the said appeal notwithstanding." Of course,
whatever proceedings were taken thereafter in the same
cause would be further proceedings; and the absence of
the particular word "further " from the mandate is of
no consequence. Emphatically the command called for
proceedings in the nature of execution according to right
and justice and the laws of the United States. The
necessary meaning is that the court below should proceed
to carry our decision into full effect according to right
and justice; and, manifestly, this could not be done without proceeding to enforce the supersedeas bond according
to its terms. The bond recognized that the city anct its
officials, who were the nominal parties defendant, were
in a broad sense the representatives of the consumers,
the parties actually concerned. It recognized that they
were required to pay a rate for gas higher than the city

EX PARTE LINCOLN GAS CO.
512.

Opinion of the Court.

ordinance had determined to be just and reasonable; that
these excess charges were being exacted pending the suit,
in order that the company might be secure in the event
that it should prevail, and, per contra, that they ought
to be refunded with interest in the event that it should
fail. It recognized that the consumers were so many in
number, and the difficulty of sustaining their individual
claims through separate suits would be so great, that to
remit them to such suits would be a virtual denial of
justice. And it recognized that to ascertain what should
be due to them, To see to its collection from the company
in case of its failure to make good its attack upon the
ordinance, and to cause distribution to be made among
the several claimants, was essential to the doing of complete equity, and therefore a natural incident to the jurisdiction of the court in the main cause. To retain jurisdiction for the.purpose of requiring that restitution be
made according to the terms of the bond was and is a
necessary part of the duty of the District Court under
the mandate.
The case is within the principle of Arkadeiphia M1lilling
Co. v. St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co., 249 U. S. 134, 143147.
The contention that the jurisdiction fails because the
consumers were not parties to the record nor in privity
with the parties, and the company prayed no relief against
them, is transparently unsound. The ordinance was intended to limit the gas rate for the benefit of the consumers; suit was brought against the municipality and
its officers as the public representatives of the interests
of the consumers; the restraining order and temporary
injuction were intended for the very purpose of enabling
the company to exact, pending the suit, rates in excess
of those limited by the ordinance; the equitable duty to
refund excess charges if the suit should fail was a duty
owing to the consumers; and the form of the supersedeas

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the CourtL

256 U. S.

bond recognized all this, and was particularly designed
for their protection.
Nor is there substance in the contention that the jurisdiction does not extend to overcharges subsequent to
September 23, 1915. The thought suggested. is, that
the adjudication of the validity of the ordinance did not
extend beyond the date of the final decree; that thereafter changed conditions, increased costs, and other circumstances referred to by us in 250 U. S. 268, may have
rendered the limited rate non-compensatory, and the
ordinance therefore confiscatory; and that at least the
company, before being called upon to make restitution,
ought to have a hearing upon this question as to the period
subsequent to September 23, 1915. The contention
overlooks the effect of the ordinance, which is presumptively valid, and has continuing force unless and until
set aside by judicial decree as the result of an investigation,
in which the burden of proof is upon the company; that the
decree of September 23, 1915, is conclusive evidence that
the company has made such an attempt, and has failed,
and that the ordinance rate not only is lawful and binding,
but will so continue unless and until the company, under
the "without prejudice " clause, shall begin a new suit
and maintain its contention that the rate through changed
conditions has become non-compensatory. See Alissouri
v. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co., 241 U. S. 533,
539. The contention also overlooks the fact that the
bond itself was given subsequent to the decree appealed
from, in terms for the benefit not only of gas consumers
who theretofore had purchased gas from the company but
of those who should purchase thereafter at any time
before the final determination of the suit. The specific
obligation thus assumed requires it to refund all overcharges collected in excess of the ordinance rate, so long
as it had the benefit of the injunction pending the appeal; and the jurisdiction of the District Court to see

ANCHOR OIL CO. v. GRAY.
512.

Syllabus.

that the excess charges are refunded has corresponding
extent.
We have said enough to demonstrate the existence of
the jurisdiction of the District Court and its scope. Other
points are raised, but they relate not to the question of
jurisdiction, but to the mode in which the jurisdiction
ought to be exercised. If they have substance--as to
which we make no intimation-they will be ubject to
review in the appropriate method, after the conclusion
of the proceeding.
Rule diwharged.

ANCHOR OIL COMPANY v. GRAY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 188. Argued January 27, 1921.-Decided June 1, 1921.
1. The authority of the Secretary of the Interior under ยง 2 of the Act
of May 27, 1908, c. 199,35 Stat. 312, to approve an oil and gas lease
made by a full-blood Creek allottee is not taken away, under ยง 9,
by the death of the allottee. P. 522.
2. As respects the rights of the allottee's heirs and those claiming under
them with notice of such outstanding lease, the approval relates
back and takes effect as of the execution of the lease by the parties
named therein. P. 522.
3. Under the Act of March 1, 1907, c. 2285, 34 Stat. 1026, the lodging
of such lease in the office of the United States Indian Agent (now
Superintendent of the Five Civilized Tribes) at
Iduskogee, ior
transnmssiou to the Secretary of the Interior, constituted construetive notice to persons who, after the death of the lemor and after
the lease had been approved by the Secretary, took another lease
from the lessor's heirs. P. 522.
4. The provision of the Act of March 1, 1907, making the filing of
Indian leases with the Indian Agent at NMuskogee constructive

