GARLAND'S HEIRS v. CHOCTAW NATION.

439

Syllabus.

HEIRS OF GARLAND, DECEASED, v. CHOCTAW
NATION.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 129. Argued January 12, 1921.-Decided June 1, 1921.
The Choctaw Nation constituted four persons a delegation to represent
it in pressing money claims against the United States, promised them*
a percentage for their services rendered and to be rendered, and,
when an appropriation was secured from Congress as a result of
many years of negotiations and proceedings during which the
delegates were succeeded by others, passed an act appropriating the
agreed percentage out of the fund held by the United States, with a
direction that it be paid to the two existing delegates, as successors of
the preceding delegates, to enable them "to pay the expenses and
discharge the obligation in the prosecution of said claim, and to settle
with the respective distributees of said delegation," the act further
declaring that payment to the two delegates should be accepted as a
complete payment and final discharge of all obligations of the Choctaw Nation to the delegation and as a full and final settlement of
the amount due under its contract. Upon these and other subsidiary
facts,Held: (1) That the obligation of the Choctaw Nation was to the delegates individually and not to the delegation as a body, and that the
two existing delegates, in collecting and disbursing the money, were
agents of the Nation merely, so that its payment to them did not
discharge the Choctaw Nation's obligation to the heirs of a former
delegate who had rendered part of the service. P. 444.
(2) That while, under the act authorizing this suit (May 29, 1908,
c. 216, ยง 5, 35 Stat. 444, 445), any right of such heirs to recover on
account of service and expenditures by their ancestor must be
determined not upon his contract but upon the principle of wantum
meruit, a petition alleging valuable services should not be rejected
upon the technical ground that it asserted and relied upon the contract. P. 445.
54 Ct. Chms. 55, reversed.

Tm case is stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

Mr. Harry Peyton, with whom Mr. James K. Jones and
Mr. W. N. Redwine were on the briefs, for appellants.
The SolicitorGeneralfor appellee.
MR. JUSTICE McKNNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
This suit is based, as its ultimate foundation, on an Act
of Congress of May 29, 1908, c. 216, ยง 5, 35 Stat. 444, 445,
which provides as follows:
"That the Court of Claims is hereby authorized and
directed to hear and adjudicate the claims against the
Choctaw Nation of Samuel Garland, deceased, and to
render judgment thereon in such amounts, if any, as
may appear to be equitably due. Said judgment, if any,
in favor of the heirs of Garland shall be paid out of any
funds in the Treasury of the United States belonging to
the Choctaw Nation, said judgment to be rendered on the
principle of quantum meruit for services rendered and
expenses incurred. Notice of said suit shall be served on
the governor of the Choctaw Nation, and the Attorney
General of the United States shall appear and defend in
said suit on behalf of said nation."
The case is not easily stated, though simple in ultimate
resolution. It turns upon the relation of Samuel Garland
and his right to compensation as one of the delegation of
the Choctaw Nation to procure for the Nation a recognition and payment of money due from the United States
in settlement of or in payment for lands east of the Mississippi River ceded to the United States under certain
treaties. The case as made by the petition is this: Samuel Garland was a member of the Choctaw Tribe of Indians and in 1853 he, with fhree others, were created a
delegation and authorized to settle all unsettled business
between the Choctaw Nation and the United States. In

GARLAND'S HEIRS v. CHOCTAW NATION.
439.

441

Opinion of the Court.

1855 the Chiefs of the Nation agreed to pay the delegation, naming them, twenty per cent. upon all the claims
arising to the Nation or individuals for their services in
negotiating the treaty and for other services which were
to be rendered thereafter in Washington.
In pursuance of this authority they entered into negot1iations with the United States for settlement of the controversies concerning what, if anything, was due on account of matters growing out of certain treaties (they
are set out in the petition) and for the payment for lands
ceded to the United States by the Choctaws.
The result was the direction by an Act of Congress
(1888, 25 Stat. 239) of the payment to the Choctaw Nation of the sum of $2,858,798.62 in satisfaction of a judgment of the Court of Claims in favor of the Nation.
On February 25, 1888, the Nation, on account of the
death of Samuel Garland, and for the purpose of paying
his estate and the other members of the delegation, appointed Campbell LeFlore and Edmund McCurtain
agents of the Nation to make requisition upon the United
States for the amount due Garland and the other delegates
for the services rendered the Nation, and for moneys expended by them. Twenty per cent. of the amount appropriated by Congress to pay the judgment of the Court
of Claims was the amount fixed to be paid.
The appointment of LeFlore and McCurtain was without the consent of Garland's estate or the consent of his
heirs.
LeFlore and McCurtain collected from the United
States $638,919.43, the same being twenty per cent. of
the judgment of the Court of Claims, and were charged
with the duty of distributing the same equally.
In 1889 they paid to the heirs of Garland $43,943.20,
but refused to pay the balance due amounting to
$115,786.65.
The Nation has never denied the indebtednees to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

estate of Garland but recognized it by an act passed by
its General Council in 1897 and authorized its payment
by warrants issued by the national auditor.
The act was vetoed for the reason that it would exhaust
the available funds in the treasury of the Nation and force
the closing of the Choctaw schools. The estate having
no power to sue the Nation, could not do so until authorized by an act of Congress.
The petition sets forth the respective interests of the
heirs of Garland.
The Court of Claims found some of these facts but,
found other facts and concluded from them that the contract of the Nation was with the delegates as a body and
that the Nation was not responsible for any failure on
the part of LeFlore to pay the estate of Garland all that
was due Garland. In other words, the court held that
LeFlore and McCurtain were not the "'agents' of the
Choctaw Nation, for whose misapplication of the fund,
if they did misapply it, the Nation was liable," but that
they were when dealt with "the delegation, the successors
of the original delegation, standing in such relation to the
Nation and to other members of the delegation or their
beneficiaries that the payment made to them as it was
made, is to be held an acquittance of the nation."
.The conception of the opinion is that the delegation
was a unit, constituted such and intended to act as such,
the survivors or even the survivor of those appointed
succeeding to the powers and rights of deceased delegates,
that the Nation so regarded and so dealt with them, and
that, therefore, LeFlore and McCurtain succeeded to the
rights of the delegation, could receive the powers conferred upon them by the enactment of February 25, 1888,
and could accept any sums that came to them under that
enactment "as a complete payment and a final discharge
of all debts and obligations of the Choctaw Nation to"
the delegation under the contract of 1853.

GARLAND'S HEIRS v. CHOCTAW NATION.
439.

443

Opinion of the Court.

This being the conception of the court its final conclusion was, that the payment made to LeFlore and McCurtain served to discharge the Nation from any further
liability to the delegation or any member thereof or their
representatives, and on that ground it ordered the case to
be dismissed.
As we have seen, there was a delegation constituted, and
Garland was a member of it, and its compensation was
agreed to be "twenty per cent. upon all claims arising
or accruing to" the "Nation or to individuals under the
treaty of June 22, 1855, for their services in negotiating said treaty and for other services which are to be
rendered hereafter at Washington." It will be observed
there was no disposition of the amount that might be
received, nor distribution of it nor of the services that
might be required to be performed, nor designation of
who was to receive or control it.
Delegates, however, died and others were appointed
in like generality, and finally there was a concentration
in LeFlore and McCurtain, and, the National Council,
reciting that the delegates preceding LeFlore and McCurtain had recovered from the United States $2,858,798.62, and that the delegates were entitled to
twenty per cent. of the amount, that percentage was appropriated out of the fund and directed to be paid to
LeFlore and McCurtain as delegates and successors
of the delegates of 1853, "to enable them [LeFlre and McCurtain] to pay the expenses and discharge the obligation in the prosecution of said claim [the claim of the Nation against the United States], and to settle with the
respective distributees of said delegation."
There was also an appropriation for other sums due
the delegation and it was enacted that all of the sums
should be paid to LeFlore and McCurtain, describing
them as successors to the other delegates and when so
paid to be accepted "as a complete payment and a final

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

256 U. S.

discharge of all debts and obligations of the Choctaw
Nation to said delegation" under the contract of their
appointment. And it was enacted that the amounts provided to be paid should "be accepted as full and final
settlement of the amount due under their respective contracts" and the remainder of the amount appropriated
by Congress should be retained in the Treasury of the
United States, subject to the legislation and requisition
of the Nation.
In 1873, however, there was recognition of liability to
the delegates and it was provided that the National
Treasurer be authorized to receive the appropriation and
to pay (among other obligations) "20 per cent of such
appropriation for the delegates of 1853 and 1854, to enable
them to discharge all liabilities and obligations under
said contracts [there were other contracts than that with
the delegates] and all expenses necessarily incurred in
recovering said claim." It was provided that all just
debts due the Nation from the delegation should first be
deducted.
The enactment of 1888 was a deputation to LeFlore and
McCurtain to collect and disburse the congressional appropriation, and they became for that purpose the agents
of the Nation, not the agents of the delegation, and it was
the first deputation of that power. By a prior enactment
the payments made to the delegation were from the National Treasury, and another (1867) provided for such
payment. In other words, until the enactment of February 25, 1888, the control of the appropriation was in the
Nation and payments out of it by the Nation.
Our conclusion, therefore, from the record, is not that
of the Court of Claim. There was implication, at least,
of liability to the delegates individually. And this was
the understanding of the delegates. LeFlore so understood it and the payment made to Garland's estate was a
recognition of it. The payment is distinctly in opposition

GAILAND'S HEIRS v. CHOCTAW NATION.
439.

445

Opinion of the Court.

to the contention of the Government and the conclusion
of the Court of Claims. Both the contention and conclusion assert a unity in the delegation, the rejection of
any individual payment or reward to the delegates, a
time limit upon compensation for their services, however
great or effective, a kind of jus accrescendi in the successors of deceased delegates. If such right existed at all,
it would have existed even though the succession had come
a moment before the congressional appropriation was
made, and no services whatever rendered by the successors of deceased delegates.
And these views must have impressed Congress, and
induced its enactment authorizing suit against the Choctaw Nation. Not, it is true, upon the contract, because
other services than Garland's were rendered in procurement of the appropriation and should be considered, and
Congress therefore required the judgment in the suit "to
be rendered on the principle of quantum meruit" for
what Garland did and expended.
It is objected, however, that the suit was not asserted
or prosecuted on that basis and that there is no description of the services of Garland or their value, and therefore no elements for a judgment established, such as the
statute authorized. It authorized, the explicit contention is, a judgment on a quantum meruit, and that
therefore "no judgment can be rendered on a petition
which seeks to recover merely upon the ground of a
contract."
The contention under the facts disclosed in the petition
is technical. The petition showed services rendered and,
if the petition be true, valuable services-and for them
there should have been recovery if the Nation was liable,
and we think it was. How much we do not say nor did
the Court of Claims consider, it being of opinion that the
Nation was not liable for anything. Upon the return of
the case it may determine the amount due Gat. rnd, if

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Counsel for the United States.

256 V.. S.

anything, dependent upon what his services contributed
in securing the congressional appropriation.
The judgment of the Court of Claims must therefore
be reversed and it is so ordered.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS and MR. JUSTICE CLARKE
took no part in the consideration and decision of this case.

UNITED STATES v. AMERICAN CHICLE COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 175. Argued January 24, 1921.-Decided June 1, 1921.

The Act of October 22, 1914, c. 331, 38 Stat. 754, imposed stamp
taxes in respect of scheduled articles and commodities "manufactured, sold, or removed for sale," including chewing-gum, taxed
on its retail value, and required manufacturers at the end of each
month to file a declaration that no such article or commodity had,
during the preceding month, been removed, carried, sent, or caused,
suffered or known to have been removed, carried or sent from their
premises, other than such as had been duly taken account of And
charged with the stamp tax. Held that, whether the tax was levied
in respect of the sale or of the manufacture, a payment by the manufacturer was contemplated, and, when chewing-gum had been
manufactured and prepared for sale, its removal to other factories
and warehouses of the manufacturer for the purpose of future sale
to wholesalers rendered the manufacturer liable. P. 448.
Reversed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

The Solicitor General, with whom Mr. R. P. Frierson
was on the brief, for the Unitecd States.

