CAsEs

ruled and adjudged in the

1796.

COTTON Plaintiff in Error, verfus WALLACE.

W

RIT of Error to the Circuit Court, for the.Diftrit of
Georgia, to remove the proceedings and decree in an
Admiralty Caufe., At the ]aft rerm the Decree of the Circuit
Court had been affirmed, with cofis; fubjea to the opinion of
the Court, whether any, and what, damages flhall be allowed on
the affirmance ? On arguing this que Rion, at the prefent term,
it appeared, that the Libel prayed for r6titution, "and all the
damages and coffs that have arifen by occa ion of the premifes
that the Decree of the Circuit Court awarded reflitotion, "and
that the Defendants do pay all the expences of this fuit ; "-and
that the Circuit Court affirmed the Decree of the DiftrtCourt generally. When the Decree of the Circuit Court was
affirmed here, the Counfel for the Plaintiff fuggefted, that he
was entitled to damages, and urged the Court to fanalion ome
mode of aflfeffing them. This propofition, however, was rejected ; and, therefore, the Plaintiff in Error applied to the Circqt!it Court, where the prefiding Judge was in favor of appointing Auditors; but the Diftri& Judge diffented from the opini1on. Under thefe circumflances, the Plaintiff in error, with
notice to the Defendant,. engaged rome refpeaable citizens to
value and certify the damages; and his.counfel, Reed (of South
Carolina) now offered their certificate as the meafure proper
to be adopted by the court ; urging, that if the proceeding was
deemed irregular, further time might be allowed,, to.afcertain
the proper. remedy for an evident right*.
BDu P nccau
Do you niean to go 6ut of thc record to prove
'PATI.rt
e
SO r
i
your damages; or is your eftijnate of damages founded upon what apon the
pears
Rred.
Therecorditfcf?
record does not flhew the extent of onr damages, thougl
We wifh, there-.
ihe decree v ill entitle us to recover the full amount.
±orc, by matter deklrs therercord to afcetain that zmnoum..

SUPREME COURT Of the United States.

303

Du Ponceau, for the Defendant in error, infified, that the 1796.
queflion of damages was exhibited on the libel and that the
decree of the Diftri& Court amounted to a negation of the,
claim. Damages cannot be iniluded in the word u expences,"

which is fynonimouflv and indifcriminately uf-d, in the civil
law, with the words coils and charges. (Jark. 15. 17. 87.
Fl9yer. 87. But the caure now comes before this court on an
aflignrnent.for error, that no rejfitution ought.to have been
awarded ; a plea in hulo 9f erratum, on which iffue was joined ; and upon that iffue, 'there is a general affirmance of the
decree below. The proceedings, therefore, are complete, and
the jurifdi&ion of the court expended, as to every thing brought
into controverfy upon the record. But on principle, independent of the peculiar flate of this caufe, the court has not a power to award general. damages., The damages fpoken of in the
2 3 d and 2 4 thfedlions of the judicial a&1, (I vol. Swift's Edit.
p. 63.) can only apply to damages for delay, from the time of
the writ of error brought: It does not authorize an affeffment
and decree for general damages ; nor does it embrace a proceeding in rem, b-ur only cafes, in which a. liquidated fum is
given by the inferior court. Befides, if the Defendant in error has fuffered any extraordinary damages, for which there is
not, at this time, any redrefs, it muff be imputed to his own
fault. The decree of the Diftri& Court being in his favour,
e might have applied for immediate reffitution of the property on giving fecurity; or he might have claimed damages. In
the latter cafe, if the court had ordered its regiffer to examine
and report upon the amount, the Defendant in error would have
been entitled to intereft upon it, if the' ultimate decree of this
court was in his favour, or, if the court below had refufed the
claim of damages, there might have been a crofs appeal, when
the point would have been" brought dire&ly before the Supreme Court, upon a writ of error to reverfe that part of the
decree ; and if a reverfal had been pronounced, the caufe would,
have been regularly remanded to the CircuitCourt to affefs the
damages, under the 24thfe'ion of the judicial act. Even, ipdeed, if the Circuit Court had awarded damages, without affefiing the amount, this court muff have remanded the caufe.
But how can the Defendant be allowed to claim general damages on a writ of error' brought by his antagonift ; and in oppofition to which, he is fo far from alledging there was any error in the decree below, that he merely prays for an affirmance ?
And yet, to grant the claim, is, ineffe&t, to reverfe fo much of
that very decree, which he thus prays may be entirely affirmed,
as does not allow, and affefs, general damages in his favour.
The affeffment of damages, is a matter peculiarly delicate. In
the court below the fources of information are eafly accelible;
but

-304

CASEs

ruled and adjudged in the

1796. but here there are no data ; fo diait the enquiry, if at'all toleN,"/ rated, can only be made by affidavits,- the worfi mode of judicial inveftigation. The e.vil, however, does not occur, when
nothing is left for this:court to do, but to calculate the intereft
on the fum previoufly afleffed and: afcettained by the competent
tribunal*.
After'advifement, TRE CHIEF J.USTICE delivered the opinion of THE COURT, that where a judgmert, or decree, was
affirmed, on a writof error, there could be no allowance of damages, but for the delay; and, thereupon,,the following order
was. made in thi's
caufe:.
By THE Coup.T. It is orde'red, that the Defend'ant in error recover as damages againft the Plaintiff in error the furn of
3,515 dollars and i x cents, being the intereft on 34,841 dollars
:and 55 cents, the amouht ofthe.fales of the .brig Ev rton and
.her cargo, from the 5 th of May, 1795, the date of the dccree of
the Circuit Court in the faid caufe, being. I year, 3 months
aud 4 days, at the rate of 8 per-cent per annum': And, alfo, that
the faid' Plaintiff in e,ror, do pay the cofis accrued in this'caufe
fince the laft term. And a 1iecial mandate is awarded to carry this order into execution.
i RIDELL, "fuflice.
This Cafe is diftinguihable from the cafe ofV ennhallow vs. Doanekant. q. 54) for there the damages were decreafed, to the Lenefitof the Plaintiff in error. in the cafe ofTalbot vs. Janfon,however,
it appears f.om the Decree, that increafed damages were allowed to the
Defendant in error. Ant.p. 138.
,. CHASE) 7JufiCe. 'In the cafe ofTalbot vs. Janfon, did the Court go back
beyond the Decree of the Circuit Court, to encreafe, the damages ; or
was the increafe allowed tnierely for the delay in executing that Decree ?
Paterfon, fufiice.
In every cafe, in which thiere has been adjudged,
either a decrecafe, or an inicreafe of'danages, the fa, s that regulated the
deeilion of the Court arofe and appeared upon the Record. I have always, however, entertained, and ftill entertain, great doubts, whether a
vrit of error is the proper remedy, to remove an Admiral ty caufe.
On this i'emark, the other Counfel employed ( Lewis and E. Tilghman,
for the Plaint.iff in. error, and Igerfoll for the Defendant in error) left
the general queftidn ofdamages, so the Court'on the argument already
ftated, aud entered into, a difeuffion upon the regularity of the prorefs
by which the caufe had been removed. See p'oftI'Vijcair
etat.vs. ))auchey. Yennings et al. vs.
'e .PrigPrrfeveranec.

