384
1798.

CASES

ruled and adjfodged in the

cafe within the jurifdidion' of the Circuit Court ; and th ,tthe
record, in the prefent cafe, was in that refpe'defeliVe,.
This caufe and. many ofhers, in the fame predicamenit, wci'e
accordingly, ftruck off the docket.

JONES,

Indorfee, verfus LE

TOMBE.

(" APIASjn .afe.. This was an al1ion brought, originally,
l. in the Supreme Court, by Yohn offin 7ones, a citizen
of Maffachufetts, as- Indorfee of James Swan, againft the'De-

fendant, the Conful General of the French Republic, as Drawer of a number of protefted bills of exchange (for the aggregate amount of 385,964. livre turnois, 3 fols 8 den. equal to
70,052 dollars and 46 cent,) correfponding with the following form :
Philadelphie, le
an
dela Rvpublique Fran.aife, une & indivifible.
"

CONSULAT
GENERAL

P res

ARGENT TOUR NOIS

AN
No.
Y

'"

TROISIEME.
,

-de

P_ to

jour No.

S(Sig)

C,-

S
zt -v

0 (0
n~ GQ

Q!,s

Q1-.U

-

18 cents & 15loomes de cent
faifant, z't
de Dollar par livres tournois
. CITOYEN,
A trente Jours de vile, je vous prie de payer par
cotte troifi cme de change (la premiere, )a Ieconde
on la quatri6in ne l'6tant ) t P'ordre de
tournois,
la fomne
en dcus de fix livres o autres efp~ces d'or ou argent,
A la valeur r6duite de-dix-huit cens & quinze centiSmes de cent de Dollar, par livres tournois, ou ei
Lettres-de-change fur Harnbourg, "31 acceptatioi
& an change conventlus avec le Porteur, valeur reue
E e dit, conlforns~ment'au compte rendu an Miniiflre
No.
an
par d pch6 du
Ina lettre d' avis en date de cc
&
tinbree

es ETATS

UNIS.

-

---

79 (v.s.)

LE TomtBr, Le Con/ty Ganerrna
All Citovl'l Pa),cul Geno a!
des depee',Ls du D~partcntenf
A4 l

Treforerie Nationale,
A PARIS.
Je pric le Cioyen Miniftre de
de faire acqbitter ]a prfcnte de faq-uelie
j'ai garanti le payment fur P honneur tie ].
Nation Fran~aifez
Sign.
ADET
Le Miniltre Plunipotentiarede la Republique
Franf-aife pi d4 Ies Erats Uris d' AkrinTi

And

SUPREME COURT of

the United 8tares-

At the opening of the Term, Dallas and Du Ponceai had 1793,
obtained a rule, that the Plaintiff fhew his caufe of aaion, and
why the Defendant flhould not be difcharged on filing a cornmon appearance; and now Ingerfoll and E. Tilghman (hewed
caufe, produced the bills of exchange, and the Plaintiff's pofitive affidavit of a fubfifting debt, including atdeclaration,
" that he was induced, principally, to purchafe the bills, in
confideration ,of the charader and private fortune of the Defendant, and that without the fulleff confidence irl the perfonal
credit and refponfibility of the Defendant, he verily believed
he would hot have purchafed them. ' They then conte'nded,
that the pofitive affidavit was fufficient, in this court, for holding the Defendant to bail . that it was not incumbent on them
to (hew to whofe ufe the money was applied, fince it was paid
to the Defendant; that when a Conful ats as a merchant, and
draws bills for cah advanced, he is not entitled to any priviledge ;,that the Defendant muff prove that he had a right to
draw the bills as Conful ; that even ifhe had the right to draw,
he might pledge his private creditj in aid of his official function; and that the critical fituation of the French Republic
raifes a prefumption, that the reliance was placed on the private credit of the Defendant. The cafes heretofore decided
in the Englifh courts, are perfe6fly diflinguifhable from the
prefent cafe. x T. Rep. i74. They occurred between parties
belonging to the fame government ; and there wa no proof
of credit being given to the individual. In fupport of thefe
pofitions were cited, 2 H. Bi 554. [att. b. 4. c. 6.f 74. P139f 114. 2 Dall. Rep. 247. 2 Stra. 955.
'The Counfel for 'the Defendant were Itopped when they
rofe to reply; and THE CotRT were unanimoufly and clearly
of opinion, that the contrad was made on account of the government; that the credit was given to it as an official engagement ; and that, therefore, there was no caufe of a6lion againft
the prefent Defendant.
The rule was, accordingly, made abfolute; and the Plaintiff
foon afterwards difcontinued the a-tion.
VOL. IIg.

Ddd

August

