¢90

CASES ruled and adjudged in the

1799.
'

s

ftri6led to "giving poffefflon and feifen, and making good the.
title and aff'rance of lands, tenements, and hereditaments,"

It is, therefore, merely a facility and benefit extended to the.
grantee.
YEATES and SmITH,

fuftices, concurred.
JUDGMENT

for the Plaintiei'

.March Tern, 1799.

RESPUBLICA verfus WRAi.

T

HE Defendant on the ift of June, 1738, had been appointed treafurer for the County of Cumberland, " for
three years, to commence on the 5th of June following ;" but
upon a fuggeftion of improper pra&ices in procuring the appointment, the Attorney General obtained a rule to (hew caufe,
why an information in -the nature of a writ of qieo warranto
ihould notbe filed againft him.
* In fupport of the rule, affidavits and office papers were produced, with a view to fhew, that the Defendant was in embarraffkd circumfrances ; and that he had procured the vote of
one of the County Commiffioners, under an affurance, that he
would foon refign the office of treafurer, as he only wifhed to
be appointed to it, in order to promote his elec6 ion as Sheriff
of the county. "There was, likewife,.an ineffectual attempt
to prove that the cammiffioner, who.had thus voted, and the
Defendant, were not citizens of the United States: And, in
point of law, it was obje&ed, that the appointment was void
ab initio, being made to commence infuturo.
The rule was oppofed by Dallas and M'Kcan; and theopinion of the court in the abfence of the CHIEF JUSTICE, was

delivered by
SHIPPEN, 7zyfice. The prefent is the firfl inflance, that we
recolle6&, of an application of this kind in Pennfylvania; and
oil opening the cafe, it ftruck us to be within the ioth feaion
of the 9 th Article of the Conflitution, which declares, " thatno
4 perfon fhall for any india-able offence, be proceeded againft
4 criminally by information," except in cafes that are not involved

SUPREMn Ct-URT of

P;nnfylvania..

'49,

volved in the prefent motion, But, on confideration, it is evi- .1799:
dent, that the Conftitution refers to informations, as a form of 1 s'
profecution, to punifh an offender, without the intervention of
agrand jury; whereas an information, in the nature of a writ of
quo warranto, is applied to the mere purpofes of trying a civil
right and oufting the wrongful poffeffor of an office*.
Since, therefore, there is fome evidence (however flight) of
improper condud, we' do not think, that it would be right to
refufean opportunity for ajury(who are the legal judges oftheweight of evidence) to determine, whether it is fufficient to
vitiate 'the Defendant's appointment of County Tre~furer.
And, at the fame time, the points of law, that have been fuggefted, may be maturely confidered and decided,
The rule made abfolutet,

MURGATROYD vrfus CRAWFORD.

T

HIS was an aftion againft an Underwriter on a Policy

of Infurance upon the fhip Mkiount Vernon, warranted to
be American property. The fhip was captured by a French

Privateer, carried into Porto Rico, and there condemned as
prize. The caufo was tried at the prefent Term ; and SHIPPi'N, Jq_/ice, delivered the following charge, in which all the
material facts and arguments were, fubltantially, fet fortht.
SHIPPEN, Juflice. On this Policy, the affured has engaged to prove in any Court of Pennfylvania, that the-Mount
Vernon was American property ; and it is, alfo, incumbent on
-him to prove, that the ihip failed upon the voyagve infured ; that
fhe has been captured, and condemned. On the queftion of
-property, the American Regifter was produced, which contains
the
'.ee 3 BI. CIM. 263.
t For the laws relating [o County Treafurers, which .were cited in the
courfe of the argumenit, See Dail. Edit. I Vl.- 2. 807.
Vol. 44
3 Vo. 750.
The Cmue
by i idifpofiiiwi,

Jvs'rice, who had prefided at the opening, was obligcd,
to 4c .0afcnt during the reft) of the trit 1.

