CASES ruled and adjudged in the

1794.
GLASS, et al. Appellants, verfus The Sloop BETS xy,et al.,

C

APTAIN Pierre Arcade 7ohannene, the commander of
a French privateer, called the Citizen Genet, having captured as prize, on the high feas, the floop Belfry, fent the veffel
into Bahlimore; but upon her arrival there, the owners of the
floop and her cargo filed a libel in the Diftri& Court of Marylan-, claiming reflitution, becaufe the veffel belonged to fubje6ts
of the king of Sweden, a neutral power, and the cargo was
owned, jointly by Swedes and Americans. The captor filed
a plea to the jurifdi6tion of the court, which, after argument,
was allowed ; the Circuit Court affirmed the decree ; and,
thereupon, the prefent appeal was inflituted.
The general quellion was.W-Vhether under the circumffances of this cafe, an American Court-of Admiralty, has jurifdic.
tion to entertain the complaint, or libel, of the owners, and to
decree reftitution of the property ? It was argued by E. "Tghman and Lewis, for the appellants; and by Winchefter (of Maryand) and Du Ponceau, for the appellee.
For the Appellants, the cafe was briefly opened, upon the following principles, The queftion is of great importance ; and
extends to the whole judicial authority of the United States ;
for, if the admiralty has no jurifdi&ion, there can be no jurifdi6tin in any common law court, Nor is it material to diftinguith the ownerfihip of the veffel and cargo ; fince firangers,
or aliens, in amity, are entitled equally with Americans to have
their property proteCaed by the laws. Fatt. R. 2 f. 101, 103.
p. 267. There can be no doubt that this is a civil caufe of admiralty nd maritime jurifdifion, and fo within the very terms
of.the judicial a&, Reftitution, or no reffitution, isthe leading point ; that neceffacily, indeed,, involves the poiiit of prize,
or 13 prize, as a defence for capturing ; but if the admiralty is
once fatir1y poffeffed of a caufe, it has a right to try vvery incidental queftion, That the veffel is a legal prize, may be a
good plea to-the fuit ; but it is not a good plea to the jurifdiction of the court ; and the captor by bringina his prize into an
American port, has himfelf fubmitted to the American jurifdiction, which is in this inftance to ba exercifed by the Judicial,
not the Executive, department. Con/?. U. S. art. 3"f I. 7ud.
A4 7t.f
9. Doug. 58o, 84, 5. 92. 4. Carth. 474. i Sid. 32o. 3
T. Rep. 344. 4 'A Rep. 394,5. Skyn. 59,. . Ray. 473. Carth.
32. 6i.Abr. 5t5. 3BI.Com. io8.
V
Fent.
173. 9,Saund.
:59. 2 Keeb. 829. Lev. 25. Sid. 320. 4 ln?.
152.
154. 2
Bduj'h. Z7, 8,9. 2 Vern. 592. 3 B/. C. io8. 2 L. Yenk. 755,

7?7, 733, 751, 754, 755, 7800oi

SUPREME COURT

of the United States.

For the Appellees, the captors (after fome exceptions to the 1794.
regularity of the appeal, which were waved by confent*) it was
obferved, that this is not a libel for a trefpafs, and fo within the
jurifd.idion of the Difirid Court ; becaufe a fcizure asprize, is
no trefpafs, though it maybe wrongful. Nor can any ad fubfequent to the feizure for fecuring and bringing the prize into
port, give jutifdidion, if the feizure does not. Doug. 5.71.
Neither can the queftion be, whether the taking was fo illegal
as to amount to piracy ; andtherefore, that there ought to be
reftitution ; for piracy can only be decided in the Circuit
Court. But the queftion raifed by the libel is a queflion of
prize ; and the decifion of that muft precede the fubfequent one
of refgitution ; which, fo far from being the main and original
quefti6n, is the confrquence of the former. Admitting, then,
the prefent capture to be unlawful, becaufe it is neutral property,, ftill, the Diftrid Court has no jurifdi&ion of a queflion of
prize by the conflitution and laws of the United States, nor
by the laws of nations.
,. The Diftridt Cot*rt has no jurifdidion by the Conftitution and laws of the United States (which form the. only poffible fource of Federal jurifdition) for, al'though it is admitted,
that by the ift and ad feions of the 3 d article of the Conftitution, and the Judicial a&, the jurifdidion of the Difirid Court
extends to all civil ca.,fes of admiralty and maritime jurifdidlion ;
yet, it. is denied, that prize is a civil caufe of that defcription ;
nor can the expreffion veft a power in the Diftrid Court to decide the legality of a prize, even by a citizen of the United
States. A citizen, indeed, can only make a prize when the
United States are at war with fome foreign power; but beinog
at peace with all tlhe world, no fuch queftion can now be agitated; and, of courfe, nojurifdiition, in fuch a.cafe,. can exift in
any of its courts. By comparing the a& of Congrefs with the
Conflitution, it is obvious, that the. former doei not veft in the
Difirid Court, the fame, orfr extenfive, a judicial power, as the
latter would warrant. The Conilitution embraces admiralty
cafes of whatever kind,-whether civil, or criminal, done in
time 6f peace, or in time" of war ; but the ad of Congrefs limits
the power of the Difrtrid Court to civil caufes of admiralty and
maritime ju ri fdiion ; and the court can have no other, or greater
power, than the adhas given: Civil caufes cannot poffibly include
captures, or the legalityof a prize which can only be made in
time of war. The words are ufed to denote that the caufes are not
to be foreign caufes, or arifing from, and determinable by, the
The Appeal had not been prefented to any Court or Judge of the United States,
but to a Notary Public of Baltimorc. The Court dire.ed, that the waver of the
exception, by confent, (hould be entered, as they would not allow any judicial countenance to b.e Civen to.the proceeding before the Notary,

8

CAsEs 'ruled and adjudged in the,

1794. jus belli ; but are fuch as relate to'the community, arifing in
Ldthe time'of peace, and are determinable by the civil or ,uncipal law; whereas prize is not a civil marine caufe ; nor is it
a fubjeft of civil jurifdi1ion. Doug. 2 Ruth. lnft. 95.5
The jurifdiftion of the admiralty courts of England, and of
the United States, .arifes from the fame words ; but it is manifeft, that the latter has no other jurifdidion by law, than
that which has been exercifed by the Inflance court in England,
which is widely different from the prize court, though the
powers are ufually exercifed. by 'the fame perfon. The prize
court can only-have .continuance during war, and derives its
powers from the warrant which calls it. into adivity. Doug.
613: '2. IP/oodes. 452. Colleta.. 7uridi 72. The ib~flanca
court derivesits jurifdidiori from a commiffion, enumeratipg
particularly every obje& of judicial cognizance; but not a
word of prize; any more than is contained in the ac of-Congrefs, when enumerating th objeds of judicial cognizance in
the diftrid court. The manner of proceeding in thefe'courts
is totally different. -The'qu'eftion of prize, or no prize, is
the boundary line, and not the locality'; and the nature of'-that;
quefion not only excludes the Inflance, but the common lawi:
and all other, courts'; fo that'whenever a caufe involves the
queftion of prize, 'and a determination of that queftion mufc
precede the judgment, they will decline the exercife of jurifdidion and refer it to the prize court. Befides, Congrefs.
have not yet declared the rules for regulating captures on land,
or water ; (Conf.. art. I. fec; 8.).and if the diftrid court is now
a court of prize, it is a court without rules, to determine what
is, or what is not, lawful prize ; for, the rules of an Infiance
court will not apply. , If, upon the whole, the diltrid court
has no jurifdic-ion, under the ad of Congrefs, of a cafe of prize
by-a citizen of the United States, it cannot have jurifdidion
of a prizeby a citizen of France, which is the queftion raifed
by the libel.
II. The Diftri& Court has no jurifdi&ion by the law, ufage
and praice of nations. The injury, if any, by the capture,
is done by a citizen of France to the'fubjeats of the King of
Sweden, and to a citizen of the United States ; and the queftion is, whether that injury is to be redreffid in any court of
the United States, who are in peace and amity, by treaties,
with France and Sweden, and who are neutral in the prefent
war ? Admitting, in the firft place, that Sweden is alfo at
pe':ce with France, and neutral in the war, the injury, fo far,
is an attack-iupon the fovereignty of Sweden, which Sweden
alone can take cognizance of: A neutral nation has nothing to
fay to a capture, or any other injury perpetrated by a citizen
of France on the fubjeds of Sweden. 2 Bynk. 177. Fatt. b.

SUPREME COURT' of the United

States.

2.f- 54, 55. 4 B1.Com. 66. Vati. b. 2. c. 6. 18. p. 144- 249.
to 252. 2 Ruth. InVf. 513. 4. 5. 9 Wood.435. 439. Lee
on Capt. 45. 6, 7, 8, !. If the government of the United
States could not interfere, afortiori,its courts ofjuftice cannot.
The fame reafoning applies to the cafe of the American, whore
property is alledged to be captured ; his application ought to
be made to his government; the injury he complains of, being
of national, not of judicial, enquiry; and, indeed, the very cafe
is provided for in the treaty between the United States and
Sweden.*
Hitherto the cafe has been confidered as it appears from the
allegations in the libel ; but it is proper likewife to confider
the law as it arifes upon the faats difc-lofed in the plea. This
plea to the jurifdiaion ftates formally the exiftence of wavr between France and England; the public commiffiwn of the
captor ; the capture of the veffel and cargo on the high feas, as
prize, alledgiag the fame to be the property of Britih fubjets ;
and the bringing the prize into port, by virtue of the treaty
between America and France. Upon this itatement, two additional obje6tions arife to the jurifdiffion of the Diftria Court:
if.. That by the law of nations, the courts of the captor can
alone determine the queftion of prize, or no prize ; and id.
That the courts of America carnot take cognizance of the
caufe, without a manifeft violation of the i 7th article of the
treaty between the United States and France.
I. The right of a belligerent power to make captures of the
property of the enemy is inconteftible; and to inforce that
right, the law of nations fubjeiffs the fhips of neutral nations
to fearch, and, in cafes of juftifiable fufpicioni to feizure and
detention; when the event'of the enquiry, if an acquital is
pronounced, will furnifli the criterion of damages. Doug 57T.
By capture the thing is acquired not to the individual, but the
Jlate; and the law of nations gives, as to the external effe&s,
a juft property in movable or immovables, fo acquired, whether
from enemies, or offending rieutrals; and no neutral power
can be permitted to enquire into the juftice of the war, or the
legality of the capture. 2 Wood. 446. P'att. b. 3. f. 2o2.
Lee on Cap. 82. The great cafe of the Silefia loan is a decided
authority in f.Jpport of this argument. It is there exprefsly
flated " that prize, or no prize, can, only be decided by the
admiralty courts of that government to whom the captor
belongs ;" and, confequently,

"

the ereding of foreign jurif-

diffions elfewhere to take cognizance thereof, is contrary to
the known pradice of all nations, in like cafes;-a proceeding which no nation can admit." Coll6e1. Jurid. That an
Aimerican
0 See the fecond feparate artile.

Vo4. ILL.

C ,

17-4"

TO

CASES

ruled and adjudged in the

1794. Anerican is a party to the fuir, can make no difference ; beL Vy J caufe, if the jurifdilion does not exift, it cannot be affumed,
or exercifed, in any cafe. In proor of the prad-ice innumerable authorities may be adduced; from which, however, the
following are feleded : Treaty of 699 between Great-Britain and Denmark ;-of 1763, between Great-Britain,France
and Spain;-Oof 1753, between Great-Britainand France.;of 1786, between the fame parties; and the feveral treaties
between the United States, and Holland, Sweden, and Profia, refpeffively. Har. Law Tra 7s 466. Lee on Capt. 238,
Ddug. 6 6.
If, as already has been fbewn, the Diftri& Court is not
veited with any feparate power as a prize court, neither can it
on the i/ance fide of its admiralty jurifdiidion, take cognizance of the quefion of prize, -upon any principle or ufage,
heretofore received as law. The queftion of prize is to be
determined by the jus belli; whereas -the inifance court is a
court of civil jurifdidion, regulated by the civil law, the
Rbodian law, the laws of Oleron, or by peculiar municipal
laws and conftitutiohs of countries, towns, or cities bordering
on the fea. It is not bounded by the locality of an at ; but
regulates its decifions by the laws peculiar to the nation by
which it is Gonftituted, in matters happening on tbefea, which,
if they had happened on land, would have been cognizable in
the common law courts.. I Bac. Abr. 629. I Com. Dig. tit.
"A ldmliralty." E. i. 4 Infi. 134. But a tort on the high
feas being merged in.the capture as prize, the inftance court
cannot have jurifdiaion, unlefs the main queffion is at reft,
which will never be the cafe, whether the libel is for reftitution, or condemnation. I Lev. 25. Garth. 4,74"
Itis urged, however, that the captor has by his own ad,
in bringing the thing feized into port, and coming bimfelf
within the territory of the United States, made it neceffary to
proceed in the prefent form. But the original a& derived its
quality from the iintention of the feizure, which was as prize;
and the law precludes any court from deciding on the incident,
that- had no jurifdidion of the original queffion. The care of
the Silefia loan. Coll. 7urid. Before the bringing into port,
the legality of the capture was triable only in the prize courts
of France; the bringing into pnrt was lawful by the law of
nations ; and if the American courts had no jurifdition at the
tinie of the capture, a fubfequent lawful ad could give none.
i Lev. 243. 1 Sid. 367.- 2 Lev. 25. Carth. 474. The cafes
cited by the appellant's Counfel, do not militate againal this doctrine. The cafes in -2Sand. 259. I Vent, 175. Sid. 120.
did not involve the queftion of prize; the fole controverfy
was, whedr the taking of the veffel was piratical% or not,
and

SUPREME COURT of the United States.

and whether a fubfequent fale on land transferred the jurifdic- 1794.
tion from the admiralty to the common law courts. The obfervation of Juftice Blacfone (3 Bl. Corn. io8.) is not fupported by the authorities to which he refers; and evidently
arofe from inadvertancy, or inaccuracy, of expreff'on. PalaInji. i54. 3 Bul. 27. 8. 9. was founded on parches cafe,
ticular ftatutes, which facilitated the mode of obtaining refttution of goods piratically feized; the queflion of prize never
occurred in the inveftigation. Sir L. 7enkins reports a number of cafes before the King in council, upon captures within
the limits of the government ; but they do not .inftance the
exercife of any judcial authority in effeding reftitution. if
the ad of bringing the thing into the territory gives any jurifdidion, it is to the fovereign, not the judicial, power. 2
WJood. 439. And the captain of the French privateer has done
no all, which can authQrife the exercife of jurifdidion over his
per/on. The rule authorifing the exercife of jurifdidion over
perfonscoming within the limits of acountry,has been narrowed
down, by the voluntary law of nations, to cafes where there is
either a local allegiance,or voluntary fubmiion. To this fource
might be referred the right of a government to punifh faults,
and decide controverfies, betweenfranger, or between citizens andflrangers: but fuch ftate has no right over the perfn of a flranger, who ftill continues a member of his own nation. Fatt. b.2. f.io6. Io8. Local allegiance is not due
from a ftranger brought in 'by force, or coming by licence; nor,
ifit does exift, does it give jurifdidion over faults committed
out of the country, before a refidence. Fatt. b.4. f 92. The
captors, in the prefent'cafe, came hither, by licence, under
the fan6'ion of a treaty ;"and, therefore, it cannot be prefumed,
that they intended to fubmit to the municipal authority; unlefs
the prefumption arifes' from the treaty: It does not fo arife
from affirmative words; and any implication is rebutted by the
provifion of the treaty, that they fhall be at full liberty to depart. But, on the other hand, the principle on which depends
the right of the country of the captors to decide, whether the
property captured is lawful prize, is, briefly, becaufe the captors are members of that country, and beeaufe it is at/werable
to all other flates for what they do in war. .nRuth. In/.
59i. The interference of the American courts will be a manifeft violation of the I 7 th article of the treaty with France.
The terms of the treaty are clear and explicit, that,the validity
of prizes fhall not be queftioned; and that they may come into,
and go out of, the American ports at pleafure. To decide in
oppofition to a compa&, fo unequivocal and unambiguous,
would

1,2

CASEs ruled and adjudged in the

'T79+. would endanger the national tranquility, by giving a Juft and
honorable caufe of war to the French Republic.
" For the Appellants, in reply. The arguments of the oppofite
counfel, prefent three objeds for inveftigation: ift. Whether
the treaty between France and the United States, prevents any
arrelt of the veffel and cargo, under the authority of our goyernment ? 2d. Whether the Diftri&q Court is a prize court ?
and 3 d. Whether, even if it is a prize court, the remedy, in
ihe prefent cafe, ought not to be fought through the executive,
inftead of the judicial, department?
I. The 17th article of the Treaty exprefsly extends only to
thips and goods taken by France from her enemies ;" and
being in the affirmative, as to enemies, it affords a firong implication of ,negative as to neutrals and Americans. If, indeed, the citizens of France may keep a neutral, as a prize
taken from their enemies, they may lik.ewife, any where abroad
ieize 4mierican property and American citizens in veffels, and
our government cannot interfere, even in our own ports, to prevent their being carried away; fince, accdrdingto the oppofite
confiru&ion, the article prevents any interference in any cafe.
'rhe words; howeyer,are dire&ly againifl that conifrudion;
and even were it otherwife, the abfrdity and i'juftice of the
confequences which flow 'from it, would demand a different
conftruaion. Patt. b. J: p. 369. ' Gro .fi 22. p. 365. Puf.
544.f 19. P. I.
rot. .358. f 12. p. .att. b. -f 282. p.
380. 381. The (enfe muft be limited, as the fubjed of the
comp a requires; and when a cafe arifes, in which it would
be too prejudicial to take a law according to the rigor of the
terms, a refirifive interpretation fhould be ufed. FPait. b.f
292. p. 391. Grot.f 27" p.361. Jatt. b.f. 295 P"392.
1I. It is admitted that the Conftitution gives to'Congrefs,
the power of veiling a prizejurifdidion in the Federal Courts;
but, it is urged, that this power has not been exercifed, becaufe "all civil caufes of admiralty and maritime jurifdi(Fion,"
which are the terms of the inveftmenj, do not include prize
caufes. In examining the judicial a&, liowever,'to difcover
the intention of the legiflature, it is plain that civil is tifed,
upon this :ocafion, in contra-diftindion to criminal. In other
parts of the a&,the word "civil" is dropped; (Jec. 12, 13. 19. 21.
and'in the 30th fei'on a provifion is iadeexprefsly for a cafe
of capture." The truth is, Admiralty is the genus,' inflance
,dprize courts are the fpecies, comprehended in the grant of
'driraltyjuiifdifiion.
Douk. 580. 579. 582. 583. 59Lf 1 Sid.
367. 3"]. Rep. 323. :1
Dall. Rep. io5. 6. Lord Mansfeld
doe%, indeed, fay, that pize is not a civil and maritime caufe,
Doug. 592; but he, alfo fays, that, it is a caufe of admiralty
juriididtion. It is urged, that prizes can only be made in time
of

SUPREME COURT

of the United States.

13

'of war'; but it is fufficient to obferve, in anfwer, that, howe- I794.
ver juit the abftrad propofition may be, it is equally clear,
that prize courts may proceed in time of peace, for what was
done in time of war. Doug.. 583. Carth. 474, 4 In/7. 154.
Bul/i 13. I Lev. 243. Hume's Hist. of Eng. vol. 7. P. 431. 2
Saund. 259. 2 Lev. 25. It is further urged, that the power

of declaring war, and making rules refpeding captures, is
veted in Congrefs; and that Congrefs has made no fuch rules;
but, furely, whether the rules were made, or not, (and they are
proper to be eftablifhed for a divifion of captures,) the property of an enemy, in cafe of a war, would be lawful prize.
Thofe rules can have nothing to do with creating a jurifdiaion.
Nor is it available to fay, that this queftion refults from war,
and, therefore, is not of civil jurifdi&ion: for, taking the word
civil as oppofed to the word criminal, the confequence does
not follow; and the diftinaion appeors in 4 Ing. where the
property was libelled civiliter, after' an ineffedual attempt
criminaliter.
III. In Europe, the Executive is almoft fynonymous with
the Sovereign power of a State ; and, generally, includes legiflative and judicial authority. When, therefore, writers fpeak
of the fovereign, it is not neceffarily in exclufion of the judiciary ; and it will often be found, that when the Executive affords
a remedy for any wrong, it is nothing more than by an exercife
of its judicial authority. Such is the condition of power in
that quarter of the world, where it is too commonly acquired
by force, or fraud,or both, and feldom by compael. In America,
however, the cafe is widely different. Our government is
founded upon compa&. Sovereignty was, and is, in the people. It was entrufted by them, as far as was neceffary for the
purpofe of forming a good government, to the Federal Convention ; and the Convention executed their truft, by effe6tually
feparating the Legiflative, Judicial, and Executive powers ;
which, in the contemplation of our Contlitution, are each a
branch of the fovereignty. The well-being of the whole depends upon keeping eavh department within its limits. In the
State government, feveral inftances have occurred where a legiflative a61, has been rendered inoperative by a judicial decifion, that it was unconftitutional; and even under the Federal
government the judges, for the fame reafon, have refufed to
execute an a& of Congrefs.* When, in fhort, either branch
of the government ufurps that part of the fovereignty, which
the Conftitution affigns to another branch, liberty ends, and
tyranny commences. The Conftitution defignates the portion
of fovereignty to be exercifed by the Judicial department i and
SSee

1ayburn's Care, Z YoI p.

14

CASES

ruled and adjudged ih the

1794. 'and, among other attributes devolves upon it the cognizance
of "all cafes of admiralty and maritime jurifdiion"; and renders itfovereign, as to determinations upon property, whenever
the property is within its reach. Thofe determinations muff
be) co-extenfive with the obje&s of Judicial fovereignty;
which, according to the nature of the objedts, will be regulated
by common law, by ftatute law, and by. the law of nature and
nations. It is competent to execute its decrees ; and can, if
neceffary, raife the Po/e Civitatis. To the Judicial, and not
to the Executive, department, the citizen,, or fubje&, naturally
looks for determinations upon his property; and that agreeably
io known rules, and fettled forms, to which no other fecurity
is equal. Why, then, recur to the executive, when the property, in the prefent inftance, is on the fpot, and in the hands
of the judicial officers ? By what rules is the executive to
judge ? What forms fhall it adopt ? And to what tribunal
Ihall we appeal from an "erroneous fentence ? Will it not be
novijudicii, nova forma ? As in Milo's cafe, the eye of the
lawyer will, in vain, look for veterum. confzetudinem fori, etpr tinumfoioremnjudiciorum. But can the executive give complete
redrefs by affeffing damages; or accomplifh equal and final
juffice, by afcertaining the rights of different claimants ? Will
the injured have i'ts affiftance, of courfe and of right, or as it

may pleafe the officers of State ? And fhall even American
citizens be detained prifoners in our own harbours, depending
for their liberty upon the will of a fecretary of ftate ? It will
not be pretended, as the foundation for fuch a do6irine, that
the executive is more independent, and lefs liable to corruption, than the Judicial power: And where fhall be the boundary to executive interferences in queftions of property, if it is
admitted in the prefent cafe, which is merely a queftion of that
defeription ?

If the property were to be removed from, or if it had never
been brought within, the reach of the judicial authority, and it
fbould be divefted by an unjuft fentence abroad, then the citizen muft, of neceflity, avail himfelf of the executive authority,
through tho medium of negociation, or reprifal. i .8L Com. 258.
2

Ruth. h/i. 513, 4- 5. Lee. 46. 6. Sir T. Ray. 473. Buti

when the property is here, it is incumbent on the oppofite party
to fhow, that the general jurifdi6ion of courts, which applies,
prima facie, to every thing within their reach, does not apply
in the particular cafe of the property of one neutral power captured, and brought into the ports of another neutral power. In
the cafes cited from Lee 2o4. Goll. 7ur. 35, 137, 153, there
had been regular proceedings in England, which the king of

Pruffiaattempied to undo, byerecting a court of h'is own to reVife them. Lee. 238, 9. And the obligation of the treaties that

SUPRiMu COURT of the United States.

have leen referred to, Can only affed the parties ; as they are I794.'
matter of pofitive agreement.
But even in England, the judicial power, poffeffes the j,,rifdi&ion, which is afferted to belong to the judicial power of
the United States. The queftion is refiitution, or no reflitution, involving the queftion of prize, or no prize, brought forward by the captured, and not by the captor. The queftion
of prize or no prize, is emphatically of admiralty jurifdidion,
exclufively of the common law ; and muff be determined agreeably to the law of nations. Doug. 586, 4, 5. 592,4, Garth.
32. 474. I Sid. 320. 3 T. Rep. 344" 4 T. Rep. 394. 5.. Skin.
59. Ray. 473. Garth. 32. The admiralty being once-properly
poffeffed of a caufe, takes cognizance of every thing appertainingto it, as incident. 3 B1. Com. io8. 6 Kin. Abr. 515. xRay.
446. 2 Ruth. Injt. 594. Befides, all thefe cafes clearly efcablilh
a diflin6tion between a want of jurifidion, and a difiiiffion of
the libel for good caufe. The cafe in 4 Inti. 154, and that of 2.
.- 3. demoaftrate, that where it is proved, ift. That the fovereign of the complainant is in amity with oui fovereign; and
ad. That his fovereign was in amity with the fovereign of the
captor ; the party may fue for reftitution. The admiralty of
England will decide, though a foreign power iffued the captor's
commiffion. 3 Bulyh. 27, 8, 9. 2 Fern. 592. Sir L. 7enk. 755.
The ad of bringing the veffel into an American port, muft
be regarded as a voluntary elelion to give a jurifdi&ion; which
they might otherwife have avoided. If the American c6urts
have no j urifdifion, the captors avoid all jurifdidion, as they
avoid that of their own country ; for, the attempt by a French
Conful to take cognizance in our ports, can never be countenanced. But fhall they keep the veffel and cargo here ad libitum, and Americans, as well as neutrals, wait their motions ?'
for, it is urged, that reprifals cannot iffue till the courts of the
captors have refufed juftice ; and thofe courts cannot enquire
into the merits till the veffel is brought within the jurifdiffiot
Of France.
THE COURT, having kept the caufe under advi'fement for.
feveral days, informed the counfel, that befides the queftion of
jurifdidion as to the Diflrid Court, another queftion fairly
arofe upon the record,.-whether any foreign nation had a right,
Without the pofitive flipulations of a treaty, to eftablifh in this
country, an admiralty jurifdifion for taking cogniizance of
prizes captured on the high feas, by its fubjefS or citizens,
from its enemies ? Though this queftion had not been agitated, THF COURT deemed it of great public importance to be
decided; and, meaning to decide it, they declared a defire to
hear it difcuffed. Du Ponceau, however, obferved, that the
parties to the appeal did not conceive themfelves interefled in
the

16

CASES ruled and adjudged in the

1794. the point ; and that the French minifter had given no inftruc,
k
tions for arguing it. Upon which, JAY, ChiefJuflice, proceeded to deliver the following unanimous opinion.
BY TIE COURT . The Judges being decidedly of opinion.'
that every Diftridt Court in the United States, poffeffes all
the powers of a court of Admiralty, whether confidered as an:
inflance, or as a prize court, and that the plea of the aforefaid
Appellee, Pierre Arcade 7ohannene, to the jurifdi&ion of the
Diftri& Court of Maryland, is infufficient: THEREFORE Ir
IS CONSIDERED by the Supreme Court aforefaid, and now
finally decreed and adjudged by the fame, that the faid plea be,
and the fame is hereby overruled and difmiffed, and that the
decree of the faid Difria Court of Maryland, founded thereon,
be, and the fame is hereby revoked, reverfed and annulled.
AND the faid Supreme Court being further clearly of opinion, that the Diftrift Court of Maryland aforefaid, has jurif-.
didion competent to enquire, and to decide, whether, in the
prefent care, reffitution ought to be made to the claimants, or
either of them, in whole or in part (that is whether fuch reftitution can be made confiflently with the laws of nations and.
the treaties and laws. of the United States) THEREFORE IT
IS ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the faid Difri& Court of.
Maryland do proceed to determine upon the libel of the faid
Alexander S. Glafs, and others, agreeably to law and right,
the faid plea to the jurifdiUion of the faid court, notwithfianding.
AND the faid Supreme Court being further of opinion, that
no foreign power can of right inftitute, or ere&, any court of
judicature of Any kind, within the jurifdi6lion of the United
States, but fuch only as may be warranted by, and be in purfuance oftreatiesIT Is THEREFORE DECREED AND ADJUDGED.
that the admiralty jurifdiffion, which has been exercifed in the
United States by the Confuls of France,not being fo warranted,
is not of right.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED by the faid Supreme Court, that
this caufe be, and it is hereby, remanded to the Diftri&
Court, for the Maryland Diftri&, for a final decifion, and
that the feveral parties to the fame do each pay their own
cofis.
February

