"S
tU .FRk

COUh"T Of the

United .Stax.s
.'X7

February Term, 1799"

N the opening of the Court a commiflon, dated the Ot6
December I798, was rcad,' appointing BUSHROD
(WASHINGTON, one of the affoc ,%e Judge of the, Supreme
Pourt of the Uzited Stares; and he was qualified acbrding
1of

to law
DEwi-IURsT q)erfus Cob LTHAr ID.

r'9HE following Paiement of a care, was prefented by $.
to the Court, at the infrance of the attornie
.jTilghrnan
fur both the parties, in the fuit in the Circuit Court of the
New-rork Diftri&; with a reilieft, that it might be confiderd and decided..
Caulthard,againf
i onmmenced by ,fa1cb
, This was an A&on.
ohn DeW'vhurf in the Supreme Court of the State of New.rork, and was removed by petition to the Circuit Court o tihe
LTited States for the ew--Yor DiftriAc; agreeably to the a&
of Congrers'in. uch cafe nide and provided, bythe Defexidaat,
he.being a .citizeh of te, ftate of, Pennfylvania.
The* Plaintiff's a~ioin is profecuted againi1 the aboie defendant.as the indorfer of a foreign bill of exchange drawn by
G. B. Ewar't of the city and ftate of New-York, on Thomar
"Barnesof Baldork ne" r London, dated the tenth day of anuary
one thoufand feven hundrd,and ninety-two.
" On the part of'tie Defendant, it is admitted that at the time
of the making and indorfing faid bill, the (aid Jobn Dewhuy,
• , a citizen of, and refident in, the city and flate of New-rork*
"and
g
-

The apointment ofMr. WASHIN TON was in the room ofMr. 7,f]?ic
deceafed. Mr. /uJ.'ice CHASEi was prevented by indifpoqtlivA

WIL o0N

A''om attending L e Court during the-w'ohe o4'the verfent

tcjuil,

99.

4t
a9.
.y

CAsts ruled and adjudged in the
and that he duly received notice of the proteft of the faid bill,,
for non-acceptance and non-payment.
" That on or about the twenty-fifth day of May one thoufand
feven hundred and ninety-two, the Dfendant removed to the
city of Philadelphia, in the Rlate of Pent.{ylvania, where he

has refided fince that period. That fhortly after his removal
to Philaddphia,viz. on or about the feventh day of 7une, one
thoufand feven hundred and ninety-two, a commiflion of bankiuptcv was awarded and iffued forth againrft him, in purfuance
b"two certain a6ts or 1atutes of the fAd (late of Pennfylvania,
ihe one entitled " An a&t for the regulation of bankruptcy ;"
the other entitled, "An a&1 to amend an a&l entitled, an a6t for
" the regulation of bankruzptcy :" And in purfuance of which faid
I atutes the Defendant did a6tually deliver, affign and transfer,
to the co nfniflioners appointed under the fAid commiflion, the
whole of his efc q,as well in the late of Pennfylvania as elfewhere which &Onfifted principally of credits due to the faid
Defendant, in the State of New .2ork. It is further admitted,
that the faid Yohbi Dewhurfl in all things complied with the
faid Rtatutes of bankrupt)y before referred to, and that on the
eleventh oflugufl, one thoufand reven hundred and ninetytwo, he obtained a certificate of bankruptcy duly executed.
"Upon the above (late of the cafe, it is fubmitted to the Su..
Preme Court' of the United States, to determine, whether the
certificate iffued under the laws of Pennfylvania, operates as a
difchhae of the faid debt, notwithftanding its being contra&ed
iil
anotT& (ate, where there was no bankru'pt laws, and while
the Defend6Ant Was refident in the (ald (late of New-ork. If
the court fhould be of opinion that it does, it is agreed that
judgment be entered for the D2fendant; otherwife for the
Plaintiff, for eleven hundred and twenty dollars damages, and
'fix cents coftsY'
I'A, co4jR*r, on the' enfuing morning, returned the
ilate of'the cafej declaring, that they could not take cognizance
of any fuit or controverfy, which was not brought before them,
by the regular procefs of the law.
MoT Io1 refufedi.

M

Ex parte HALLOWELL.

,R.11:7owel had been admittted, originally, as an Attor4
ncy )f this court; but now Lewlt moved, that his
na re

