SUPREME COURT

of the United Strtes.
1795.

Augufi Term, 17 95.

COMMISSION, bearing date the if of July, 1795,
was read, by which, during the recefs of Congrefs, JoHN
Efquire, was appointed CHIEF JUSTICE, till the

TLEDGE,

end of the next felion 6f the Senate.

The UNITED

T

STATES v. RICHARD PETERS, Dtirie77udge.

HIS was a motion for a Prohibition to the Diftri& Court

of Pennfylvania, where a Libel had been filed, by James
)fard, and procefs of attachment thereupon iffued, againif the
Caffius, an armed Corvette, belonging to the French Republic,

and Samuel Davis, her Commander.
words :
"

The Libel was in thefe

To the Honorable Richard Peters, Efquire, Judge of the

Diftri& Court of Pennfylvania. The Libel and Complaint
of games Yard, of the State of Pennfylvania, in the United
States of America,
" HUMBLY SHEWETH, That the faid games Yard is the
owner of the fchooner William Lindfey, and her cargo : That
aft, the faid fchooner
day of .
on or about the
failed from the iflandof St. Thomas, to the city of St. Domingo,
in the ifland of Hfpaniola ; commanded by a certain Walter
Burke, and laden with about one hundred and forty-two barrels

of Flour, fix puncheons of Rum, and other Merchandize, of
the value of two thoufand dollars, the faid veffel and cargo
amounting in all to ten thoufand dollars, lawful money of the
United States of America, all regularly cleared out, from the
faid iflani of St. Thomas, and furnilbd with all Documents,
ufuaj,
R
VOL. III.

2

l795o

•

AsE:s

ruld aid adjildgcd. i the

ufual, neceffary, and proper, and being on a voyage to the faid
port of St. Domingo, on the twentieth day of May, in the year of
our Lord one thoufand feven hundred and ninety-five, the faid
fchooner William Lindj(ey, was forcibly, violently, tortioufly,
and contrary to the laws and ufages of nations, attacked and
taken, by a ctrtaina-rmed veffel called the Caffius, commanded
by a certain Samuel Davis; pretending an authority from the
French Republic, but then, and now, a citizen of the United
States of dmerica ; and being fo taken, was, by the faid Samuel
Davis, forcibly, violently, tortioufly, and contrary to the Laws
of Nations, carried into Port de Paix, where the faid fchooner
William Lindfey, with her cargo,*tackle, apparel and furniture,
fill are, forcibly, tortioufly, and illegally, detained : And your
libellant does not admit, that the veffel, called the Cafius, was
authorized, by the French Republic, to capture veffels belonging to the United States, who were.at that time, and fill are, at
p-eac witl th (aid French "Ripubic: That the veffel called
the Gaftus, .wls ori'ginally equipped and 'fitted for '.war in the
port of Phfladdp.hia,i i -Pennfylvania,one 'of the United StdteF
of America, contrary to the laws of the faid UnitedStates, and
the laws and ufages of nations : That your libellant has never
received compenfation for the damages he has fuffered, and has
not been able to retrieve the faid veffcl, with her tackle, apparel, and furkitire : That the faid veffd&l, 'called the Caffius, and
the faid Samnel Davis, are now in the port of Philadelphia,and
within the jurifidion of this Court : In ord, therefore, that
your libellant may be c6mpenfated for 'tlhe damages he has incurred, by the hforefaid illegal and tortious takina, and detention. of .the faid fchooner * William Lindfry, with her cargo,
tackle, :ptare.l, and furniture ; and. that all may be donetouching ,the premife, which to your Honor may feem juft and
right: May it pleafe your Honor to caufe to be iffued, Procefs
fo'r fei.zing'thefaid veffel, called the Caflius, with her tackle, ',pparel, and'fuirniture; and for arrefping the body of the faid Samuel Davis, fo that he be, and appear, &c."
The fuggeftion, on which the motion for a prohibition was
founded, -fet forth'
" That on the 2rft day of Auguf!, in the year of our Lord
one thoufand feven hundred and ninety-five, Before the honorable )eohn Rutledge, Efquire, 'Chief Jufpice, and his affociate Jutices of the Supreme Court of the United States, at
Philadelphia, comes Samuel B. Davis, by Benjamin R. Mor'ran, his attorney, and gives this honorable cgurt, now here.

to !underfland, -and be informed, That ,:ereas, by the laws
of nations, and the treaties fubfifting between the United
States, and the Republic of France,, the trial of prizes taken.
on

SUPREME 'COU.T of the United Stres.

on the high feas, without the territorial ]iwnits.4nd .jqrifdiaIoin- "T7g.
of the United States, and broughi -within the dbminions And:
jurifdi&ion of the faid Republic- for legal adjLdicgirb. byf
fels of war- belonging to the fovereignty of the faid RQtuiic,,
a.fing under the authority.of the fame, and pf all queftiotis incidental thereto, does of right, and exclufively belong tq the
tribunals and Iudi-ciary eftfabliffiments of the aid Republic,"
and to no other tri.unal or.tribonals,, court- or courtswhatfq-.,
ever :--And whereas,_ y. the faid laws ofations and treaies.
aforefaid, the veffels of war belongiog to the .fai Fr.nc.k 'Rer-,
public, and the officers. cor nandirg the faroe, cannot, and
ought not to be arregd, feized,,atje~hed, er detained, inth&.
ports of the Unitegl States, by prqgfs of la,, at'thg.fuit. or[
inzanee q'f individuals. to .4nwgr for.; iny captur ! or ,Cnptures,
feizure or feizures, mtde 9n t.e high fas, .and bo.ught. fqr le-l
gal adjudication into the portsof the Tre'ich Republic, by the.
faid veffels of war, while .beongirig to,' 4,nd. 4&ing- ulnder thea.uthority, and in the imrnre4-d frrvice of the faid Republic-..-,
And whereas, by the-laws and treaties &fqre~faid', the Difri&:
Courts of the United States, hqve nqt and, ugbt not to enter-,
tain jurifdi&ion, or :holdjplea. of fuch captres made: as-aford-i
faid; under the above ,cirqunmaances, '.And vherea,,z' by the?
lAws of nations, the vefiels ofi wa. of Belligerent poewers, du,.!
ly by them,. authorized, toc~r'ize againft their qpemies, andt&
make prize of thei'r ffiip, and goods, may in time of, war; arreft,and"
feize.,the ,veffels beloging to, the fubjecis or 6itizens of neutral
nations, and bring theM. iqto the ports .of -the fovereig'n under'
whofeL commiffion and a uttqrity.they a&, there to a.nfwer for:
any bre~ches o" the lawsX( ations, concerning the navigation>
•of neutral veMIs in time. 4 "-imr ; and the faid veffiels of wa,:.
their commanders, officers afpd crews, are, nc., amenable before,
the tribunals ci neutral powerij; for. their 'cond.uf therein, but.
are only anfwerable to the tevereign In Whihof, immediate fer-.
vice they were, and from .wthcm they derived th.e~r authority :
Arid whereas, on and before the twentieth day of .Nay, now
laft patt, the laid Samuel .R, Davii, was, and. now is,. a lieutenant of lhips in'the navy of the faid .Fvenab .R-public, and
eommander of a certain corvette or vT.offee: f war, 'galled the
Cafus, then, and now, the property of the (aid Republic, and.
in her immediate fervice,'and on the faid tweqntie'th day of May,
was duly commiffloncd by, and under the authority of the faid,
Republic,, to cruize againif her enemies, and incke prize of
their fhips and goods, (as by his" commiffion, and the certifi-.
cate of the Minifter Plenipotentiary of the. (aid. Republic, to the
United States, to the court now here, fhewn, fully appears)
Neverthelefs; a certain 7ames ard, of the City of Philadel*piria, Merchant, not ignurant of the premifes, but contriving
an4

'2

4

'

CASEs

ruied and adjudged in the

1795. and intending to difturb the peace and harmony fubfif'ing between the United States and the French Republic, and him the
-

faid SamuelB. Davis, wrongfully to aggrieve and opprefs and
draw to another proof, him the faid Samuel B. Davis, and the
faid corvette or veffel of war of the French Republic, the Cafflus, in the port of Philadelphia, under the proted ion of the
laws of nations and of the faith of treaties; has, by procefs out
of the Diftri& Court of the United States, in and for the Diftri6t of PennfIvania, attached and arrefted him, the laid Samuel B. Davis, and the laid corvette or veffel of war, the Caffius, and before the Judge of the (aid Diftri& Court, contrary to
the faid law of nations and treaties, and againft the form of the

laws of the UnitedStates, hath unjufily drawn in plea,to anfwer to
a certain libel, by him, the faid 1amei rard, againfi him the
faid Samuel B. Davis, and the laid corvette or veffel of war,
"the CajJius, her tackle, apparel and furniture, exhibited and
promoted, craftily and fubtilly there' alledging, articulating and
objeffing, that on the faid twentienth day of May, now laft
paft the-faid Samuel B. Davis, then commanding the faid corvetteor veffel, the Gaffius, did forcibly, 'violently and tortioufly
take-on the high feas, acertain fchooner or veffel, belonging to
the laid James Yard, called the William Lindfey, and brought
her into Port de Paix, (in the dominions of the Frncb Republic) where (he ftill remains, and alfo alledging and articulating, that. the- faid corvette or veffeli" called the Cafius, was
originally equipped and fitted for war, in the port of Philadelphia, in the United States, and that the faid Samuel B. Davis,
was, at the time of the (aid capture, and now is, a citizen of
the United States, without thisy however, and te faid games
rzrrd, not in any manner alledging or articulatiig, that the faid
capture was:made' within the territory, rivers or bays of the
United States, or within a marine league of the coft thereof,
or that the faid corvette or veffel, the Caffus, was fo fitted or

* equipped for war, in the United States, by the faid French Republic, her agent or agents, with their knowledge, or by their
means or procurement, or by the (aid Samuel B. Davis, or
that at the time of her being fo equipped, or fitted for war in
the United States, (if ever there, fhe was fo, in any manner fitted or equipped) fhe was the property of the (aid French Republic, or that the faid Samuel B. Davis was, in any manner,
in the faid equipment or fitting for war, concerned ; and without this alfo, and the faid 7ames Yard, not in any manner alledging, that the laid Samuel 4. Davis was retained, or engaged in the fervice of the French Republic, within the territory
or juiifdidion of the United States-And the (aid James Yard,
him, the faid Samuel B. Davis, and the faid corvette or veffel
of war, called the Cajffus,. by force of the procefs aforefaid, out
. of

SUPREME COURT of

the United States.

of the faid Diffri6l Court, had and obtained, as aforefaid, fPill. 1795.
wrongfully detains, and the faid Samuel B. Davis, and the
French Republic, owner of the faid corvette or veffel of war,
thereupon, in the faid Diffrid Court to anfwer, and in the
premifes caufe to be condemned, with all his power endeayours, and daily contrivc, in contempt of the g6vernment of
the United States, againfi the laws of nations, the treaties fubfifting. between the United States and the French Republic,
and againft the laws and cuftoms of the United States, to the
manifeff violation of the faid laws of nations, and treaties, and
to the manifeft difturbance of the peace and harmony, happily
fubfiffing between the United States and the faid French Republic-and this he is ready to verify. Wherefore, the faid.
Samuel B. Davis, the aid of this honorable court, mnoft refpec-fully requefting, prays remedy, by a writ of prohibition,
to be iffued out of this honorable court, to the faid Judge of
the Diftri& Court of the United States, in and for the Diftri6 t
of Pennfylvania, to be direaed to prohibit him from holding
the plea aforefaid, the premifes aforefaid any wife concerning,
farther before. him.
MORGAN.

Samuel B. Davis, being duly fworn, on his oath, doth fay,
that all and fingular, the fals, by him in this fuggeftion flated,
are true.
S. B. DAVIS.
Sworn in open Court,
A4ugufl 2!d. I795.
1. WAGNER.

D. C. Sup, Ct. U. S."

The motion for the prohibition was fupported by Ingerl)
Du"Ponceau and Dallas, and oppofed by Tilgbman and Lewis:

And the controverfy, turned' principally, upon this point--.
Whether the Diftria Court could fuftain a *libelfor damages,
in the cafe of a capture, as prize, made by a belligerent power, on the high feas, when the veffel captured was not brought
within the jurifdi1ion of the United States, but carried, for
adjudication infra prafidia of the captors ?
Dallas, in opening the argument for the prohibition, contended, ift. That a prohibition will lie in this cafe;-2d. That
on the face of the libel, it was evident, that the Diftri& Court
had no jurifdilion ;- 3 d. That on the faas difclofed in the fuggeftion, the Diftri& Court ought not to be allowed to take
jurifdidion ;-and 4 th. That the allegations of the libel itfelf,
would not fupport the proceedings below.
I. A prohibition will lie in this cafe. The three great objeds of the judicial power are an authority-ift, to adminifter
juffice; 2d. to compel the unwilling, or negligent,. magiftrate,
to perform his duty; and 3 d. to reftrain the miniffers ofjuffice
withia

126
1795.

CASES" ruled and adjudged in the

within the regular' boundaries of their refpetive jurifdiffions.

~ The judicial power is, therefore, either abftra'6 or relative;

in the former chara&er, the court, for itfelf, declares the law
and diftributesj uftice ; in the latter, it fuperintends and controuls
the condut of other tribunals, by a prohibitory, or mandatory,
iiterpofition. This fuperintending authority has been depofited in the Supreme Court, by the Federal Conftitution ; and it
becomes a duty to exercife it upon.every proper occafion. The
writ of prohibition is faid, indeed, by the Englijh books, to be
grantable ex debito jufliciv. i Sir 7. Raym.3. 4. and, it is
certain, that the Conflitution and laws of the Union fix no limitation to the exercife of the power of this court upon the fubje&, but, by way of implication, that it ihall be warranted by
the principles and ufages of law. 7udicialdt.f 13. The
principles and ufages of law, warrant, that a prohibition f hall
iflue-iff where the caufe does not originally belong to the
inferior Court; and zd. where the collateral matter arifing
friom the caufe is not within the jurifdiffion of the inferior
Court. Nor does the writ iffue merely to forbid proceeding
in fuch cafes as belong to the common law courts ;'fr, it
equally iffues to forbid proceeding in cafes that do not belongto
the inferior Court,though the courts at cofmiion law can give no
remedy. WPoods. InJfl 570. F. . B. io6. T. i Vaod. 142.
There is, however, fome diverfity, whether a prohibition will
iffue to an Admiralty Court, till fentence; but this clearly
arifes on cafes originally within the jurifdidion of the.court ;
for, in Admiralty, as well as in ecclefiaftical courts, if it appears'on the face of the proceedings, that there is no jurifdiction, the court will not permit an attempt to exercife one. 3
Burr. 1922.
I1. On the face of the libel, it is evident, that the Diftri&
Court has no jurifdi&ion. The promonent fa&s are, that the
veffel was taken as prize, carried infra prxfidia of the captor,
and, at this time, a&ually remains there. There is no trefpafs fated difin& from the capture as prize ; and this is not
a queftion of reftitution, fince the veffel is not within our jurifdialion; Befides, from the very nature of things, the queftion of damages muff be determined by the fame tribuna.I, that
determines the queftion of prize: it is an incident, and whoever takes cognizance of the principal que{ion, muff likewife
takc cognizance of that. In the French C6urt of Admiralty,
the captor and the captured, will f(and on a fair and equal footing ;-the one, to (hew the grounds of condemnation, or, at
leaff, ofjuftifiable fpicion for fearching and feizing a.neutral veflel;-the other, to repel the allegation, to obtain reftitutio',, and to recover damages. By the law of nations, the
right of judging is vefted in the courts of the.captor; the prin-.
ciples

SUPR'EM'

Cb6UtT *of the United States.

ciples ofjuffice enforce the rule in the prefent iniffance;
all the vitneffes and documents are with the prize. If, t!
the courts of the captor have a right to decide the queftio
prize, and- their decifion is binding on all the world, can
mages be obtained here, when condemnation has been, or i
be, decreed there? In the Silefia cafe, the Britih Lawy,,
rernoniftrated againfl: the appointment of a Pruffian court of

commiffioners, to re-examine and re-judge the fentences of
their admiralty. Colled. Jurid. Let the fads be as they may,
the fentence of the French court muft be conclufive. Thus,
,where an-Englifhman's veffel was taken by a French privateer,
England and France being at peace, and condemed as Dutch

property, the court would not examine into the fentence. Sir
T. Raym. 473. i Dall. Rep. 78. The very ftatement in the
libel, eftablifhes the prefumption that the veffel captured was
carried, into Port de Paix, for legal adjudication; and ifjuftice requires, fhe will not only be reftored, but damages will
be there awarded. Where the caufe of prohibition appears on
the face of the libel, it need not be pleaded below. 2 Salk.
551-

III. On the fads difclofed in the fuggeftion, the Diftri&
Court ought not to be allowed t6 take jurifdidion. The ConPtitution of the United States might have rendered the individual itates, nay, the Union itfelF, amenable as defendants at
the fuit of individuals; but it could not, in that way, bind
other fovereign nations, not parties to the compad. Even,
indeed, wiith refpe& to the States, the language of the propofed amendment, is, that "1the judicial power of the United States
Jhall not be confirued to extend to any fuit, &c." by individuals againfl a flate; which furniffies, at leaft, a legiflative
opinion of the exemption of fovereigns from fuch procefs. But
the law of nations is exprefs on the fubje&. Fatt. b. c. fi
p. and Pennfylvania has heretofore judicially recognized the
doine. t Dal Rep. The
§'alzus being then the property
of a fovereign and independent nation, cannot be attached
for any fuppofed delinquency of her commander, committed
on the high feas: it would be making public property refponfible for private wrongs. What would be tho confequence
of an acquiefeence in the jurifdidion now fet up ? Every
privateer, every national veffel of war, would be liable to
ftizure at the inftance of every individual, who pretended he was injured. Could the AImerican citizens,'who have
fuffered by fpoliation, seize the Britih frigates, or privateers,
upon their entrance into our port ? Could Captain B/i,
whofe pilot boat was seized, and rifled of the public papers of
the French Minifter, within the waters of the United States, attack the Africa, or arreft Captain Holme, who had .perpetrated
tC,

I795.
,

>

128

'CASES ruled and adjudged in the

the outrage?

The abufe of a public truff is caufe of complaint

to the Government of the offending party ; but to retaliate by

feizure, wlthotit firf demanding redrefs, is contrary to the general rights and laws of nations, as well as contrary to the exiffing treaty between the United States and France.
IV. The allegations of the libel itfelf cannot fupport
the proceeding. ift It is alledged, that the captured veffel was
neutral property: but this is a fadt to be proved in the French
Admiralty ; for, the neutral veffiel might be carrying contraband
articles to an enemy of the captor ;-flue might be failing to a
blockaded port ;-fhe might have defedive papers;- or fhe
might ad in a fufpicious and ambiguous manner. In any of
thefr cafes the right of fearch, and carrying into port for further
examination, may.be exercifed by a belligerent power :-tbey are
fubjects for the confideration of the court of the captor, but they
give no jurifdidon here.-2nd It is alledged that the Captain
of the Corvette was in fad an American Citizen: but, it is anfwered, that there is no proof of the allegation ; and even, if
proved, a Citizen of the United States may expatriate himfelf;
and, afterwards, in a foreign country, enter into a foreign fervice.
It is true, that some of our treaties abandon him to be punifled
as a traitor ; and that the fadt might be examined here, with a
view to punifh him perfonally, for any infradion of our laws ;
but it is not a matter that can give jurifdidion to our Courts,
on the. queflion of prize, or no prize.-3d. It is alledged that
the Caffius was illegally outfitted in the United States : but it is
anfwered, that there is no allegation, either that fhe was illegally outfitted by the Captain, or after The had become the property of the French Republic. An illegal outfit is a pofitive offence, highly penal ;--2very nan will be prefumed innocent of
it, till the contrary is proved. In ordinary cafes, where there is
a fale .in market overt,.no man is entitled to reftitution till convidion ; nor can there fooner be a forfeiture of an illegally outfitted veffel. But, it is conclufive, that the libel filed in this
cafe, is nbt for the forfeiture, under the ad ofCongrefs, ofJufie
1794 ; but for damages, in confequence of the capture as prize,
which can only be given by the court having cognizance of that
queftion. Any other interpretation of the law would be attended with intolerable inconveniences. Every owner, freighter,
mafter, feaman, of a veffel taken as prize, might fue the Captor in every Court of every Country. .No precedent of fuch a
proceeding exiffs ; and the univerfal filcnce on this fubject, amounts to a denial of its legality.
The adverfe Counfel flopped Dallas, and mentioned, that
they had JWf received, but had not had time to examine, fome
French papers from Port de Paix, which, they believed,
would filhw, that the Court of Admiralty there, had adually
taken

SUPREME COURT of

the United States.

taken cognizance of, and detided upon, the cafe ; and, they

faid, that if fuch was the fa&, they would voluntarily withdraw,
the Libel. An adjournment till the evening took place, in order to afford an opportunity for examining the papers referred
to; but the tranflations not being complete, at the meeting of
the Court, and the Judges declaring their intention to break up,
fine die, the next morning, a defultory argument enfued, in the
courfe of which the motion for the Prohibition was oppofed on
three grounds-ift. That the Diftri& Court had jurifdidfion2d. That even if that point were doubtful, the Prohibition
ought not to iflue till after fentence-and, 3 dly. That on a plea
to thejurifdiftion, theparty injured by the fentence, might have
an adequate remedy on appeal. In fupport of thefe pofitions,

were cited, I Sid. 32o. Thos. Raym. Vent. 173. Carth. Hard..
406. Skin. 20. I-olt.
The Judges intimated, that they would again adjourn, in
order to give a further opportunity to confider the expediency
of withdrawing the Libel ; but no compromife having taken
place, ont the z.4th of 4uguj7, THE CHIEF JUSTICE, delivered
their opinion :
BY THE COURT :-We have confulted together on this
.motion ; and, though a difference of fentiment exifls, a majorityof the Court are clearly of opinion, that the motion ought to
be granted. Therefore,
Let a Prohibition iffue.
The Prohibition iffued, accordingly, in the following
form:
"UNITED

STATES,f.

THE PRESIDENT Gf theUN T.-D STATES tothe honorable
RICHARD PETERS, Efquire, Judge of the Di{'rit Court of

the United States, in and for the Penfylvania diftri&: It is
(hewn to the Judges of the Suprcme Court of the United.States,
by Samuel B. Davis, That whereas by the laws of nations,
and the treaties fubfifting between the United States and the
Republic of France, the trial of priLes taken on the high feas,
without the territorial limits and jurifdidfion of the United
States, and brought within the dominions and jurifdialtion ef
'the faid Rcpublic, for legal adjudication, by veffels of war belonging to the fovereignty of the faid Republic, aning tinder
the fame, and of all qucfions incidental thereto, does of right,
and exclufivciy, belong to the tribunals and judiciary eftablifhments of the faid Republic, and to no other tribunal, or
tribunal%, court, or courts, whatfoever: And whereas by
the faid law of nations, and treaties aforefaid, the veffels of
war belonging to the faid French Republic, and the officers
commandirig the fame, cannot, and ought not,..to be arrefted,
feized,
S
VoL. IlL.

1795.

-

f30
1795-

CAsts ruted and adjudged in the

feized, attached, or detained, in the ports of the United Staks i
, by procefs of law, at the fuit or is-/lance of individuals, to anfwer for any capture or captures, feizure or fe'izures, made on
the high feas, and brought for legal adjudication into the ports
of the French Republic, by the faid veffels of war, while be-

longing to, and a-ing under the authority and in the immediate fervice of the faid Republic : And whereas bythe laws and
treaties aforefaid, the Diftric'i Courts of the United States have
.iot, and ouglht not, to entertain jurifdition or hold plea of
fuich captures, made as aforefaid, under the above circumflances: And whereas by the laws of nations, the veffels
of var of belligerent powers, duly by them authorized, to
cruize agaiifl their enemies, and to make prize of their Ihips
and goods, may, in time of war, arreft and feize the veffels be-

longing to the fubje&s or citizens of neutral nations, and bring
flihem into the ports of the fovereign under whofe commiffion
and authority they aft, there to anfwer for any breaches of the
laws of nations, concerning the navigation of neutral fhips,
in time of war; and the faid veffels of war, their commanders,
officers and crews, are not amenable before the tribunals of
neutral powers for their condud therein, but are only anfwerable to the fovereign in, whofe immediate fervice they were,
and from whom they derived their authority: And whereas, on or before the twentieth day of lay, now laft paft, the
faid Samuel B, Davis, was, and now is, a Lieutenant of fhips
in the navy of the faid French Republic, and commander of a
corvette, or veffel of war, called the Calmzus, then, and now,
the property of the faid Republic, and in her immediate fer",ice ;. and on the faid twentieth day of May, was duly commiffioned, by and under the authority of the faid Republic, to
cruize againft her enemies, and make prize of their fips (as

by his commiltion and the certificate of the minif'er plenipotentiary of the faid Republic to the United States, to the court
flewn, more fully appears) Neverthelefs a certain 7ames rard,
of the city of Philadelphia,merchant, not ignorant of the pre-

mifes, but contriving and intending to difturb the peace and
harmony fubfifting between the United States and the Fr.nc
Republic, and him, the faid Samuel B. Davis, wrongfully to
aggrieve and opprefs, and draw to another proof, him, the
faid Samuel B.. Davis, and the: faid corvette, or veffel of war,
of the French Republic, the Cgaffus, in the port of Philadelphia,
under the protection of the laws of nations, and of the faith of
treaties, has, by procefs out of the Diitricft Court of the United
States, in and for the Difrif of Pennfylvania, attached and arfce~fed him, the fald Samuel B. Davis, and the faid corvette, or

vefil of war, the Caffius, before the Judge of the faid Diftri&
Ciurt, contrary to tho faid law of nations, and treaties, and.
againff

SUPREME CouRT of the Unzited States.

againft the due form of the laws of the United States, hath un- .I79 3.
juffly drawn in plea, to autfwer to a certain libel, by him, the
aid James Yard, againf him, the faid Samuel B. Davis, and
againif the faid corvette, or veffel of war, the Cafius, her tackle,
apparel, and furniture, exhibited and promoted, craftily and
fubtilly therein alledging, articulating, and obje6ling, that on tha
faid twentieth day of Mgay, now laft paft, the Laid Samuel B.
Davis, then commander of the laid corvette, or veffel, the Gazus,
did, forcibly, violently, and tortioufly, take on the high feas, a
names Yard,
certain fchooner, or veffel, belonging- to the faid
called the William Lindfey, and brought her into Port de Paix,
(in the dominion of the French Republic) where fhe fill remains ; and alfo alledging and articulating, that the aid cor.
vette, or veff-l called the Gaffius, was originally equipped and
fitted for war, in the port of Philadelphia,in the United States,
and that the Laid Samuel B. Davis, was at the time of the faid
capture, and now is, a citizen of the United States . Without
this, however, and the aid James Yard, not in any manner al,
ledging, or articulating, that the Laid capture was made, within the territory, rivers, or bays, of the United States, or within a marine league of the coaft thereof, or that the aid corvette
or veffel, the Caii, was fo fitted or equipped for war in the
United States, by the aid French Republic, her agent, or
agents, with their knowledge, or by the means, or procurement, or by the faid Samuel B. Davis, or that at the time of
her being fo equipped, or fitted for war, in the United States,
(if ever there (he was fo in any manner fitted or equipped) (he
was the property of the laid French Republic, or that the faid
Samuel B. Davis was in any manner, in the laid equipment,
or fitting for war, concerned ; and without this, alf., and the
faid 7ames Yard, not in any manner alledging,'that the Laid
Saunel'B. Davis was retained, or engaged, in the fervice of
the French Republic, within the territory or jurifdiion of the
United States And that the faid 7ames Yard, him, the aid
SamuelB.Davis, and the faid corvette, or veffel of war, called
the Caffius, by force of the procefs aforefaid, out of the faid
Diftrid: Court, Mad and obtained, as aforetaid, ifill wrongfully
detains, and the Laid Samuel B. Davis, and the French Republic, owner of the faid corvette, or vei!hi of war, thereupon
in the aid Diftrid Court to anfwer, and in the premifes, cau'ei
to be condemned, with all his power, endeavours, and daily
contrives, in contempt of the government of the ,UnitedStates,
againft the laws of nations, and the treaties fubfifing betwen
the United States and the French Republic, and aigainif the
laws and cuftoms of the United States, to the manifeft violation
pf the law of nations, and treaties, and to the manifeft difturbgppne of the peace and harmony happily fubfiftin between the

Wi¢
itcd

132
1795-

CASEs ruled and adjudged in the

United States and the French Republic: Wherefore the raid
SamuelB. Davis, the aid of the (aid Supreme Court moft refpe6lfully requefting, hath prayed remedy by a writ of prohibition, to be iffued out of the (aid Supreme Court, to you to be
direaed, do prohibit you from holding the plea aforefaid, the
premifes aforefaid any wife concerning, further before you :_
You, therefore, are hereby prohibited, that-you no further hold
the plea aforefaid, the premifes aforefaid in any wife touching,
before you, nor any thing in the (aid Diftri&t Court attempt,
nor procure to be done, which may be in any wife to the prejudice of the (aid Samuel B. Davis, or the (aid corvette, or veffel of war, called the Caius ; or in contempt of the laws of
the United States: And alfo, that from all proceedings thereon you do, without delay, releafe the faid Samuel B. Davisi
and the (aid corvette, or veffel of war, called the Caflus, at
your peril.
WITNESS, the honorable JOHN RuT<qTDOE, Efquire, Chief
Juftice of the faid Supr'eme Court, at Philadelphia, this 2 4 th
day of Augty, in the year of our Lord one thoufand feven hundred and ninety-five, and of the independence of the United
States, *thetwentieth.
I. WAGNER, 1). C. Sup. Ct. U.

S.*

* The proceedings on the libel for damages in the Diftri& Court, were
accordingly fuperfcded ; but an information, Ketlane, qti tam, i&Ve.was
immediately afterwards filed in the Circuit Court, againfi the Corvette for
the illegal out-fit in violation of the af of Congrefs, and the veffel being thereupon attached, an application was made to Judge Peters, to difcharge her otn giving fecurity, but the Judge was of opinlon, that he had

no power as Diftrift J udge, to make fuch an order in a caufe depending
in the Circuit Court. The Fr'nch Minifter, then deeming (as I have been
informed) this profn-cuion to be a violation of the rights and property
of the Republic, deliver(cd a remonftrance to our government ; and,
converting the judicial enquiry into a matter of ftate, abandoned the
Cor1ete, and difclatged the officers and crew. See 2 v91. P. 365. Ketland qui
tam vejus the Ca.'ut,

