CA~tS

ruleA and adjudged in thd

1790.

BRECKBILL verfus TURNPIKE CGMPANY.

IHIS was an adion of Indebitatus .4urnpfit.

The caute
was tried at Lanca/ler, and the Jury found a fpecial verdidt in the following terms:
" The Jury find, that B. Breckbill, the Plaintiff, was feiled
in his deme(ne as of fee in 216 acres of land, &c.
" That the Prefident, Managers &c. (the Defendants) by
and with their fuperintendants, fur veyors, engineers, artiffs and
chain bearers, workmen and labourers, with their tools &c. en-_
tered in and upon the faid tra& of land, and laid out a road in
through and over the fame, 5o feet wide, and about 15,0 perches,
in length, and caufed 2f feet thereof to be bedded with pounded ftone, well compa&ed together, a fufficient depth to fecure
a folid foundation to the fame, and an even furface thereon, being the Turnpike road, agreeably to the act, &c.
" That no exprefs contra6t, or agreement, refpeling the
faid entry, or any promife, or engagement, to make compenfation for fuch entry, and for the land fo taken and occupied
by the faid road, was made by, or ever exifted between, the faid
Plaintiff, and the faid Prefident, Managers, &c. (the Defendant)
" That all the roads heretofore laid out, or at prefent being
in, upon, over or through the faid tradt of 216 acres of land,
or any part thereof, including the laid road fo laid and made
by the Prefident, Managers &c. do not occupy, take up, or
wafte 6 acres in every hutidred of the faid tra&.
" But whether on the whole matter, by the Jurors aforefaid, in form aforefaid, found, the faid Plaintiff ought to recover his judgment and damages againft the faid Prefident,
Managers &c. the Jurors aforefaid, are entirely ignorant, and
thereon pray the advice of the Judges of the Supreme Court.
" And if upon the whole matter aforefaid, by the Jurors
aforefaid, in form aforefaid, found, it fiall appear to the Judges
of the Supreme Court, fitting in Bank, that the faiJ Plaintiff
is entitled to recover againf" the laid Prefident and Managers
&c. then they find for the Plaintiff, and affefs damages to the
faid

492

SUPRsAE CoulvT of Pennfylvanza,

faid Plaintiff in the fum of fix hundred dollars-befides his
ofts and charges by him about his fuit in this behalf expended,
an4 for thote coi aid charges;, 6d.
"

But if upon the ivhole matter aforefaid, by the Jurors

aforefaid, found, it flall appear to the faid judges, that the faid
Plaintiff is not entitled in point of law to recover againfi the
raid Prefident, Maniagers; &c: then the faid Jurors aforefaid, on
their 6iths; &c. do fay, that they find for the Defendant."
, Three qdelfion arofe on this fpecial verdia: ift. What ig
tie nat~ire and operation of the proprietary grants of land, with
an Allowance of 6 per cent for roads, &c. ? Is the power vefied
in the turnpike cotmpany, to enter upon, take; and pofliefs
lands; cdnfiftent with fuch original grants, and the Conflitution,
unlefs compenfation is made ? And can an a~lion of !ndebitalus afJmpfit; upon an implied promife, be maintained againft
a corporation ?
For the Plaintiff, it was bohtended, ift. That whenerei
lands were granted by pateiit; the allowance of fix per cent
pgffed as abfolutely as the reft of the traa, to the grantee, the
Whole being alike fubje t tO the 6afement for roads. A merd
iight of paifage; therefore; was all that remained with the Goz
'ernment. It remained too for public ufe, and could not be
transferred by the Government to an individual occupant for
private purpofes. The Government might claim it; and might
Enjoy it foreer ; bui until it was claimed for the public, and
'vhenever it fhould ceafe to be enjoyed by the public, the freehold and occuoancy of the grantee were perfe& and exclufive,
i Burr. 14j, i46. This being the original nature of the conira&;, neither party can e'er enlarge, abridge; or impair its
operatioh ; and, as on the bne hand, the grantee could never
&leny the rtlht of paflage to the public fo, on the other hand,
convey mote than a right of paffage to
the public could never
r corporate. .
finy boy politic
sd! BUt the a& of Alfembly does grant to the Turnpike
EompAny, more than the public right of paffage, 3 1. 248.
ball., edii. It gives them, in effea,'the fee, and extinguijhes
the grantee's right of occupancy, which could only befrfpended,
bh the orincijples of the original grant, when, and fo long, as the
public fhould ufe the premifes as a toad. Again: it changes
the chara6ter of the contra6f, which was, fiinply,- formed betwean the irantor aind the grantee, by introducing a third party, withotit the grantee s confent; And, finally, what waF by
the orig inal contra& a public refErvatiuii, is made an inftrument of private emolument ; fo that the benefit of paflhge,
which then was comtemplated as a matter of common right,,
is now only to be enjoyed by thofi who will and can pay'for it.

VOL. IfL

ss

But

'799.
-,.'¢'

98
1799.

CAs3s

ruled and adjudged in the

Butthe Conflitution fays, that no man's property fhall be takeu",
If, therefore, even a public benefit is intended by the transfer of the
rights of the granteeAt gether with the rights of the Government, to the Turnpike company, it can only be done upon the
condition of an adequate indemnity. 2 Dal. Rep. 310. The
at of incorporation impowers the company to purchafe, take,
and hold, in fee fimple, all fuch lands, &c. as fhall be neceflfary
to them in the profecution of their works, not merely the lands
over which the road aclually runs : And, in every fimilar inflance of a canal, the Legiflature has exprefsly impofed the obligation of paying for whatever lands were appropriated to the
work. State Laws, Dall.edit. 3 PL 136, 275. 362. 4 oL p.
251. The uniform principles of juftice, as well as the pofitive provifion of the confitution, are as ifrong to entitle the
Plaintiffto an equivalent for his property, as an a6t of the Le.giflature.
3. The Plaintiff is entitled to recover in the prefent form of
aaion. Indebitatus afumpfit is an extenfive and equitable
remedy, and ought to be applied whenever an obligation is
raifed upon moral principles, or naturaijuftice. The authority
given to the Turnpike company, to take private property for
-their ufe, accepted and exercifed by them, creates a moral obligation to pay a reafonable equivalent to the individuals, whofe
property is fo taken; and the Plaintil by bringing this a6lion,
waves the tort, on which he might, otherwife, have relied. A
corporation a6q, certainly, under the fame moral obligations as
an individual ; and to decide, that they are never liable upon an
implied promife, would work infinite mifchief and injuftice;
fince they could not be made refponfible for the perfonal trefpaffis of their fervants ; and it is impoffible to compel a contra t with the folemnity of the corporate feal. The power of
the Legiflature itillf, did not extend further, than to grant the
property, on condition that it was paid for ; and, if it is not paid
for, the law is uncorflitutional and void. But the law is the
caufe of a~ion; and the company's acceptance of the law,
forms on their part the contraft, or afumpfit, to pay the value
of the land.
For the Defendants, it was contende -uift. That as far as the
6 per cent. allowance for roads, the grantees of land were
mere truflees for the public. It is immaterial on what principles roads were originally laid out in Ei gland; though, at
.prefent, it is known, that they can only be laid out by private
grants, or by acts of Parliament, with a claufe for making
coMpenfttion. It has, however, been at all times the policy of Penroylua2ia, tht th: government fhould be at the
expence

Sor applied to public ufe, without juft compenfation.

SUPREME COURT of Pennfflvanha.
expence of eftablifning the public roads and highways. The
very firft article of the conditions and conceffions agreed upon
between William Penn, and the oriiginal adventurers, contains
a provifion that the public roads fhoFildbe laid out at the proprietary's charge; i PoL.p. 6. 4ppendix'Dall. Edit. but as it,
l ,contemplated the ettablifhment of cities and towns, to
which the roads fhould lead, a fupplementary prov'fion became
neceffary, to correfpond better with the unimproved f1ate of
the country, and the allowance of 6 per cent. was made by the
proprietary. I Yl. 37, 39. in Appendix Dall. Edit. For this
additional quantity of land, the grantee never paid any price,
nor rent: it was not even fubjed to taxation. Thefe fads
cannot be otherwife accounted for, than by the admiffion of another fad, that, although the poffeffion was transferred, the government referved the right to refume it at will, and without
paying a compenfation. The early laws of the Province bear
the fame inflexible afped. There was no provifion made for
compenfatine any damages in eftablifhing a highway, or public road; and with refped to private roads leading into the
highway, provifion was only made for compenfating the damages done to impraved land. i /oL 16, 289, 2,9o . Dall. Edit.
It is, likewife, a circumifance greatly corroborative of this
coniftrudfion (though it has been differently ufed) that in the
cafe of canals, for which no property had been defignated or
referved in the public grants, the late laws contain an exprefs
claufe, for making compenfation to the owners of lands
taken for public ufe ; though fuch claufes are never inferted in
any laws for efiablilhing public roads, or highways.
2. If, then, the right of fol remained in the public, the government might either lay out the road itfelf, or it might contrad with others to do it; and no ftipulation of the original
grant, nor any provifion of the Conflitution, can fairly befaid
to be violated. Nothing more is transferred to the Turnpike
Company, than the public previoufly poffeffed, the right of
eftablifhing a permanent road ; and the right of paffage remains
a common right, notwithftanding the toll; for, that is only a
beneficial fpecies of taxation, which relieves the townfhips
from the expence of repairs, and charges it upon thofe who
immediately enjoy the benefit of the road. i BI. C. 357.
3. But, at all events, the prefent a&ion cannot be maintained. The idea of an exprefs contrad with the. Turnpike Company, is repelled by the finding of the fpecial verdidl;'and an
implied a/mpfit cannot be maintained; for, a corporation can
only contra& by deed under the corporate feal. i BI. Com. 475.
6 Fin. Abr, 268. 3 Salk. 103. 6 f/in. Abr. 292. 287, 8.Kyd

499
1799.

CAs Ep ruled and adjudged in tbq

;Cq9
1799

on .Corporations,1 Vol. 449, 450, ^59, 2 6 3. Indeed, the court
could not infer an irmphied promfe trom'the fafts fRated; as the
affumption, whether cxqef?, or implied, mift'be found by the
ju'ryi and the proper retrtiedy, if the Plaintiffhad fuffered any
jnur', was an a6tion of trefpafs agaipfI the agreffors.
,THE COpU'r, 'on the day fucceeding the arument, delivered ani unanimo6us opinion, :that 'on'this fpecial verdi6 the
Plaintiff could not recover, in the prefent form' of affion, againft the Defendants, as a corporation: And, therefcioe, thd
deemed .it. unneceffary to decide the other queftions in thd
caufe.
cu
i
judgment for the Defendants.
E. TiLghnzan and Nopkins, for the Plaintiff.
M'Kean ,nd G.Smith, for the Defendants
Lewis, !ngerfl/l,

DALLAS,

Secretary, &c. vefus CHALONER5s Fxecutors,

-HIS was an aion of Debt, inflituted inthe name of the
.T. Secretaryo~r the Commonwealth, on an official bond;
wnch the teAator had given, with two fureties, for the faithfut
d;,fcharge of his duty as a puli 1u~ioeer, ar d for we and
duly performimig the terms aind 'payinent inpofed y laW. ,,
Dall. Edit. 777 4t'the time of Gbalone's 'death,= a'confide rable funi was due iothe 0ubl c, fdr duties on ¢4 'esat Audioni
nor had he accounted to nally of his creditors, for the procee4s'
of the goads, whidh they refpeaivdl, depfited ,vith hir.' The
zadion,'howe'ver, was inflituted" by the Attornedy-Geheral, fot
ihe State; and jud ment was entered fbr the pen;11ty, by confent 6f all parties, to fdtiSy'the amounrdf the dutie's, referving
the fubfequerit'clam of the creditors.'
But Lewis ahd Rawle,on behalf of aames rard,one of the
creditu'2, now contedcd, that the State was 'notentitled to
recover"

