CAsEs' ruled and adjudged in the

42
i795.

ticulars, or to amplify the reafons, fince I continue clearly ijN
my opinion on the point, which was feparately argued; that this
caufe is exclufively of Admiralty jurifdicqion. On that ground
i chufe entirely to reft the'judgment that I give : but it leads
inevitably, alfo, to another conclufion, that, the Court not having jurifdi&ion a enire Facias de novo (which, in effea, direds the exerciie of jurifdidion) ought -not to iffue. I am1
therefore, for pronouncing, fimply, a judgment of reverfal.
PATE1RSON, 77tflice. I cannot agree ,to fend a VYenire Facias de tovo to a Court, which, in mry opinion, has no jurifdiction to try, or to decide, the caufe.
C SHING, uqlice. I (ihall give no opinion upon the quef..
tion of affirming, or reverfing, the Judgment of the Court below. My brethren think there is error in the proceedings;
and they are right to redlify it. On the queftion, however,
of awarding a Yen ire Facias de novo, I agree with Judge In EDE1L But, as the Court are equally divided, the Writ cannot
iffue,
Judgment reverfed ; but no writ of
was awarded.

eniee Faciasdi novo

'Vhe LUN1T.11) STATES ve'fus Judge LAw~tNtg,

MOTION was made by the Attorney Genzral of the
United States (Bradford) for a Rule to (hew caufe why
a Mandamus fhould not be direded to J014N LAWRENCE,
Judge of the Diftri6t of New-York, in order to compel him to
iflue a warrant, for apprehending Captain Barre, commander
of .the frigate Le Perdrix, belonging to the French Republic,
he cafe was this :A-Captain Bari'e, foon after the difperfidn
of a French convoy on the Aenerican coaPr, voluntarily abandoned his fhip, and became a refident in NewY~ork The ViceConful of the French Republic, thereupon, made a demand, in
writing, that JudgQ Lawrence would iffue a warrant to apprehcnd Captain Barre, as a defertcr from Le Perdrix, by virtue
,

SUPREME COURT of the United

States.

of the 9 th Article of the Confular Convention between the 1795.
United States and France,which is expreffed in thefe words
"ART. 9. The Confuls and Vice-Confuls may caufe to be
arrefted the Captains, Officers, Mariners, Sailors, and all other
perfons, being part of the crews of the veffels of their refpedive
nations, who lhall have deferted from the faid veffels, in order to
fend them back and trarfport them out of the country. For
which purpofe,, the faid Confuls and Vice-Confuls fhall addrefs
themfelves to the Courts, Judges, and Officers competent, and
hall demand the faid deferters. in writing, proving by an exhi'bition of the regifter of the veffel, or fhip's roll, that thofe men
were part of the faid crews; and on this demand, fo proved,
(faving, however, where the contrary is proved) the delivery
ihall not be refufed; and there fhall be given all aid and affiffance to the faid Confuls and Vice-Confuls for the feareb, feizure, and arrefi, of the faid deferters, who hall even be detained
and kept in the prifons of the country, at their requeft and expence, until they hall have found an opportunity of fending
them back ; but if they be not fent back within three months,
to be counted from the day of their arreft, they'hall be fet at li,
berty, and fhall be no more arrefted forthefame caufe." 2 'O,3 9 2,
To the Vice-Confu!'s demand the Judge anfwered, " that
it was, in his opinion, neceffary, before a warrant could iffue,
that the applicant fhould prove by the regifrer of the fhip, or
Role d'Equipage, that Captain Barre was, in fad, one of the
crew of Le Perdrix." The Vice-Conful replied, " that the
Ihip's regifter was not in his poffeflion; but, at the fame time,
fated various reafons why he fhould be admitted to produce
collateral proof of the fa& in queftion, inftead of being oblig,
ed to exhibit the fhip's regifter itfeif; and declared, that in
fuch cafe, he would give the judge all the proof that could be
defired." The Judge perfevering in his original opinion on
the fubjed, that " the mode of proof mentioned in the 9 th artitle of the Convention was the only legitimate one, and that
he could not difpenfe with it j" the V ice-Conful obtained a copy of the Role d'Equipage, certified by the French Vice-Conful at B.eoon, under the Corfular feal ; and tranfinitted it to
the Judge, with another dcrmand for a warrant to arreft Capt.

Barre; contending that this copy was entitled to the fame refpe& as the original infIrument, by vir:ue of the 5 th article of
the Convention, which is in thefe words:
" ART. 5. 7 e Confuls and Vice-Confuls refpe&ively Thall
have the exclufive right of receiving in their chancery, or on
board of veffels, the declarations and all the other ads, which
the Captains, Mailers, Crews, Paffengers, and Merchants of
their nation may chufe to make there, even their teftaments and
her difpofals by laft will : And the copies of the faid ads, du-

44
1795-

CAESES

ruled and adjudged in the

ly authenticated by the faid Confuls or Vice-Confuls, under
feal of their Confulate, fhall receive faith in law, equally
as their originals would, in all the tribunals of the dominions
of the Moft Chritian King, and of the United States. 'They
(hall alfo have, and exclufively, in cafe of the abfence of the
teftamentari' executor, adminifirator, or legal heir, the right to
inventory, liquidate and proceed to the fale of the perfonal eftate left by fubje&s or citizens of their nation, who fhall die
within the extent of their Confulate ; they flhall proceed therein with the afliftance of two merchantsof their faid nation, or
for want of them, of any other at their choice, and fhall caufe
to be depofited in their chancery, the effeas and papers of the
faideftates; and no officer, military, judiciary, orof the police
of the country, hall difturb them or interfere therein, in any
manner whatfoever: but the (fid Confuls and Vice-Confuls
(hall not deliver up the faid effe~Ls, nor the proceeds thereof,
to the lawful heirs, or to their order, till they fhall have caufed
to be paidall debts which the deceafed fliall have contraEted in
the country ; for which purpofe the creditors (hall have a right
to attach the (aid effeas in their hands, as they might in thofe
of any other individual whatever, and proceed to obtain fale of
them till payment of what (hall be lawfully due to them. When
the debts fhall not have been contraded by j udgment, deed, or
note, the fignature whereBf fhall be known, payment hall not
be ordered but on the creditor's giving fufficient furety, refident in the country, to refund the (ums he fhall have unduly received, principal, intereff and coffs; which furety neverthelefs
fliall ftand duly difcharged, after the term of one year in time
of peace, and of' two in time of war, if the demand in difcharge cannot be formed before the end of this term againfi the
heirs who (hall prefent themfelves. And in order that the heirs
may not be unjufHy kept out of the eff'Ets of the deceafed, the
Confuls and Vi ce-Conlis fhall not.fy his death in fome one of
the gazettes publifhced within their Confulate, and they
Thall retaim the fild effecLs in their hands four months to anfwer all demands which flall be prefented ; and they (hall be
bound afterthis delay to deliver to the perfons fucceeding thereto, what fhall be more than fufficient for the demands which
fhall have been formed." 2 V/ol. 384.
The Judge, however, declared that " he did not confider
the copy of the regifter, to be the-kiad of proof defignated by
the 9 th article of the Convention; and that till the proof fpecified by the exprefs words of the article was exhibited, he
could not deem himfelf authorifed to iffue a warrant for apprehending Captain Barre."
Under thefe circumifances, the Miniffer of the French Republic applied to the Executive of the United States, complaining

Sthe

SUPREME COURT

of the United States.

ing of the Judge's refufal to iffue a warrant againift Captain .1795.
Barre, as a manifeft departure from the pofitive provifions of
the Confular Convention ; and the prefent motion was made,
in order to obtain the opinion of the Supreme Court, upon
the fubject, for the fatisfafion of the Minifter.
The rule was oppofed by Ingerfoll and W. Tilghman, who
contended, I. That the original regifter of the veffel, or fhip's
Roll, was the only admiffible evidence under the 9th article of
the Convention; and II. That in the prefent cafe the Judge
has, in fa&, given a judgment ; and although a mandamus will
lie to compel the Judge of an inferior Court, to proceed to
give judgment, it will not lie to prefcribe what judgment he
fhall give.
I. The treaty has placed the fubjea in controverfy upon a
footing different from the law of nations; for, independent of
pofitive compa l, no Government will furrender deferters, or
fugitives, who make an afylum of its territory. This, then,
is a new law introdu&ory of a new remedy; and whenever a
new remedy is fo introduced, (more efpecially in acafe fo highly
penal) it muff be firiffly purfued. i Wil. 164. 4 Bac. Abr.
647, 651. The 9 th article of the Confular Convention, may
therefore, be confidered in a twofold point of view-ilt. As to
the true conftrudion of the words :-and !2d. As to the competency of a copy of the regifter, or fhip's Roll, to be received in evidence, by any analogy to the common law rules of
evidence.-ift. The words of the article are full and exprefs,
that the Conful fhall prove the deferters, whofe arreft he demands, to be part of the fhip's crew, " by an exhibition of the
regifter of the veffel, or fhip's Roll." If thofe, who drew
the inifrument, and appear throughout to have perfec6tly underflood the import of the words they ufed, had not intended to
fix a fpecific mode of proof, a fpecific mode would not have
been mentioned in this cafe; but the /kind of evidence would
have been left atlarge, as in the 14 th article, where, in another
cafe, proof of citizenfhip is to be made, "by legal evidence."
But, in fac, the fhip's Roll is the beft evidence which the nature of the cafe admits ; and, if any other, is allowed, it muff
depend upon the mere difcretion of the Judge. The individuals of the French nation, as well as the Republic, are interefted in the coniftruffion of the article ; fince it deprives them of
that proteaion within our territory, to which they would otherwife be entitled ; and their intereft becomes peculiarly important, when we confider the exifting circumflances of the nation.
Befides, whatever inconveniency might flow from this ftric&
confirudion, if it is the genuine, fixed, meaning of the treaty,
the court cannot change it on that account. 4 Bac. Abr. 652,
io Mod. 344. The inconveniences) however, are aggravated
beyond

46
1795.

^

CASEES ruled and adjudged in the

beyond their real force. The cafes contemplated, were, obvioufly, cafesof defertion before theveffel left the port, in which
it would always be eafy to exhibit the regifter, before a warrant
was iffued. The a6t of Congrefs, vefiing this jurifdiaion in
the Diftri& Judges, may, indeed, be too reftrided, inafmuch
as it does not give each Diffri& Judge a power to iffue his warrant to al parts of the United States, by which the neceffity of
applying to the Judge of every Difirid, into which a deferter
might eti:ape, and the confequent neceffity of exhibiting the
original Roll- on every fuch application, would be avoided.
The inconveniences fuggefted might therefore be obviated by
Congrefs ; and even the government of France might introduce
a remedy, by dire6ling the original Rollin cafes of defertion,
to be depofited with the Conful, and certified copies to be furnifhed tothe Captains of the refpe6live hips. But it is contended, that admitting the exhibition of the original Roll to be
reqtifite, (till it is fufficient to exhibit it before the perfon is dqlivered ;-it need not be exhibited before the warrant iues to
arreft him. This, however, cannot be the true conifrudion of
the article, upon a fair analyfis of its different parts. In the
firft part the arrey/ of deferters only is mentioned, " in order
to fend them back and tranfport them out of the country ;"then, it is faid, "for which purpoft (that is,- for the purpofe of.
the arreft) the Confuls and Vice-Confuls (hall. addrefs themfelves to the Courts, judges, and Officers competent, and (hall
demand the faid deferter in writing, proving by an exhibition of
the regi/qer, or Ihip's roll, that thofe men were part of the
crew, &c. and the claufe of delivery follows, providing, that
" on this demand, fo proved, the delivery (hall not be refufed.'On what, then,isthe Judge to ground his warrant, if not on the
exhibition of the roll ? There is no other proof mentioned in the
article; and, certainly, proof of fome kind muff be made, before
the warrant iffues. "No warrants hall iffue (fays the 6th article
of the amendment to the Federal Conftitution) but upon probable
caufe, fupported by oath, or affirmation;" And in this cafe,
if previous proof has been made, there is nothing to prevent
the warrant's containing a claufe of immediate delivery; fince
the deferter is only to be committed and imprifoned at the in,
ftance of the Conful.-2d. If, then, an exhibition of the fhip's
roll is neceffary, the fecond confideration, arifing on the conftrudlion of the article, is, whether by analogy to the common
law rules of evidence, a copy ought to be received, inftead of
the original. It is a general rule, that the copy of a deed, or
other extraneous proof of its contents, cannot be given in evidence, unlefs it is firf (hewn that the original did once exift,
and that it had been deftroyed or loft, or is in the poffeffion of
the adverfe party. i Fez. 389. Efp. iDig. 780. 782. 1o Co.

SUPtREME CouRT of the United StateS.
In the prefent cafe, the only requifite of the rule that is
fatisfied, eftablifhes the exiftence of the roll ; but proves, at the
fame time, that it has not been loft or deftroyed, and that it is
(or at leaft that it was when the warrant was applied for) in
the poffeffionof the Conful at Bojeon. So ftridtly has the rule been
adhered to, that even the acknowledgment of the obligor will
not be received as evidence that a bond was executed by him ;
the fubfcribing witnefs muft be produced. Doug. 205. 4 Burr.
2275. As to the inference drawn by the Conful, from the 5th
article of the Convention, in fupport of a copy of the Roll as
competent evidence, the article clearly relates to matters tranfa6led by Confuls in virtue of their fpecified confular powers, but
not to the authentication of foreign inifruments, deeds, or commiflions.
I. But whatever may be the opinion of this court on the
tonftrudion of the article in queftion, they cannot interpofe by
Onandamus, to compel the Diftrid Judge to adopt their judgment, inifead of his own, as the rule of decifion, in a cafe judicially before him. The Supreme Court may, it is true, iffue
Writs of mandamuf, in cafes warranted by the princi les and ufages of law; (i Vol. p. 58. f i4.) but there is no ufage or
principle of law to warrant the iffuing of a mandamus in a :cafe
like the prefent. By the Ad of Congrefs (2V.ol.p. 56. the
Diftri" Judge is appointed the competent judge, ifor -the
purpofes expreffed in the 9 th article -of the C.onvention ; -the
Conful applied tohim as fuch; and the Judge refufed to iffue
his warrant, becaufe, in his opinion, the evidence required by
the article was not produced. The al of iffuing the warrant
is judicia4 and not minigerial; and the refufal to iffue itfor
want of legal proof, was the exercife of a judicialauthority.
Where any other court has competent jurifdiiox, the court
will not interfere by mandamus to controul it. Efp. Dig. 668.
4 Burr. 2295. In a variety of cafes the ftrefs is laid on the adt
being minilerial, and not judicial. I ,Iif 125. 283. Efp.
Dig'662. 663. 666. 669. 512. 552. 530. I Stra. 113. 392
x Vent. i87. T. Raym. 2I4. I Bl. Rep. 640. 3 Bac. .dbr,
31. x Burr. 131. 4 Com. Dig 207. 208. Carth. +50. . Stra.
835. Sayre's Rep. i6o. It is juftly faid, however, that a writ
of mandamus ought in all cafes to be granted, where the law,
has provided no fpecific remedy, though on the principles of
juftice and good government, there ought to be one. Efp.
Dig,,66t. 4 Com. Dig. 205. And, it .has.been generally faid,
that writs of mandamus are either to reftore a perfon deprived
of fome corporate, or other franchife, or right , or to admit a perfon legally entitled, 3 Burr. n267. 2 Burr. 1o43. or (upon
a more extenfive bafis) to prevent a failure ofjuftice, to enforce
the execution of.the common law, and to effeduat. frme ftatute:
92.

CASEs

1795.

ruled and adjudged in the

tute: but it has never been allowed as a private remedy for a
except in cafes arifing on the 9 Inn. c. 2o. Nor has
it ever been granted to a perfon who has exercifed a difcretionary power. 3 Bac. A'br. 535. 2 Stra. 88i. 892. Efp.
Dig. 668. 2 7.Rep. 338. Efp. Dig. 667. 3 Bac. A r. 536.
Andr. 183. Thus, the Writ was refufed, where a vifitor has
exercifed his jurifdi6tion, and deprived a perfon of his office
in a college: I Wi/f 2o6. '4Cow. Dig. 209. .4ndr. 176. Efp.
Dig. 667: where commiffioners have iffued a certificate of
Cook. Bank. L. 499bankrupts. i Itk. 82. 2. Fez. 250.
And it fhould be fiewn that the inferior court had made default, for the Superior Court will not prefume it. Efp. Dig.
670. Bull. 2. P. 19 9.- Upon the whole of thefe authorities
it appears, that a mandamus is founded on the idea of a default; as where an inferior court will not proceed to judgment,
or a minifterial officer will not do an ad which he ought to do ;
but there is no inflance of a mandamus being iffued to a judge,
who has proceeded to give judgment according to the beft of
his abilities. Itought, likewife, to be obferved, that where a
fad isdoubtt'ul, a mandam'us never iffues till it is determined
by a jury, either on a feigned iffue, or on a traverfe to the return under the ftatute: For, how can this court determine
what the material fac of the prefent cafe is ? And if a mandamus is iffued,, what will be the command ?-to receive certain
evidence, or, at all events, to iffue a warrant for apprehending
Capt. Barre? If, then, the Supreme Court take the matter
up, in the way propofed, they muft examine the proof of Capt.
Barre's being a deferter ; and fo make themfelves the Court
competent for this bufinefs, contrary to the exprefs neauing and
language of the law.
The Attorney General, in reply, premifed, that the Executive of the United States had no inclination to prefs upon the
Court, any particular.conftru&ion of the article on which his
motion was founded : but as it is the wifh of our government
to preferve the pureft faith with all nations, the Prefident
could not avoid paying the higheft refpe&, and the prompteft
attention,,'tothe reprefentation of the minifter of France, who
conceived that the decifion of the Diftrid Judge involved an
infradion of the Conventional rights of his Republic. In conftruing treaties, neither party can claim an exclufive jurifdiction. If either party fuppofes that there is in the condu& of
the other, a departure from the meaning of a treaty, it is the
eftablifhied courfe in foreign countries, to apply to the government for immediate redrefs ; and, where that application, for
any caufe, proves ineffedtual, the controverfy is referred to a
negotiation between the powers at variance. In the prefent
cafe, however, frotm the nature of the fubje&, as well as from
the

Sparty,

SUPREME COURT

of the United States.

ihe fpirit of our political Conflitution, the judiciary Depart- 1795.
ment is called upon to decide; for it is effential to the independence of that department, that judicial miftakes hould only be correted by judicial authority. The Prefident, therefore, introduces the queftion for the confideration of the court,
in order to infure a puncual execution of the laws ; and, at
the fame time, to'manifeft to the world, th folilcitude of our
government to preferve its faith, and to cultivate the friendfhip
and refpe& of other nations.
I. The queftion is certainly an interefiing ?nd important
one: but it ought not to be affedled by any circumrfances refpefing the hardfhip of Captain Barre's 6ate, or the crifis of French affairs. If Captain Barre fuffers any injury,
he might, on a Habeas Corpus, be relieved; and no change or
fluduation in the interior policy of. France, can- releafe the
obligation of our government to perform its public engagements. The cafe muff, therefore, be confidered as an abtrad
cafe, depending on the fair interpretation of an article in a
public treaty. This article contemplates, ift. the arreft of deferters from French veffels in our ports-and, 2d. the deliverinoof thofe deferters to the Conful, that they may be fent out of
the country. The arrefl may be made on any kind of proof,
the oath of witnefies*, the confeflion of the party, or authenticated papers, fhewing prima facie, that the perfon againif
whom the warrant is demanded, belonged 'to the crew of a.
Frenchfhip. But the delivery is obvioufly a fubfequent a&, to be
performed after the party has been brought before the Judge ;
when, not only the allegations againf him, but his anfwers
and defence, are heard, and the Judge has decided that he is
an objed of the article. Natural juffice, and the fafety of our
citizens, require that fuch a hearing fhould take place ; and it
is, indeed, neceffarily implied in thofe words of the article " raving where the contrary is proved;" which point to a tir-e
diftin& from that of iflihing the. warrant, when the party was
not prefent, had not been heard, and could not therefore have
proved the contrary, even if fuch proof were in his power ; as
by (hewing that he never figned the (hip's roll, or that he had
been lawfully difcharged. Neither principle'nor analo'y to
other cafes, will juftify a call for the original roll, merely tobring
WI LSON,

.7u/llCe. Does it appear that any oath was taken in this

cafe?
Bradford:-No:A warrant, whichb'ad been ilfted by the Difrri t Judlge
of Pennfyvaniad-various official letters,-and Captain B'rel, own fate-

inent, were offered tobe produced ; but the point was put by the Judge
on the neceflity of producing the original roll, in exclfion of every

other fpecies of teftimony. This, therefore, is the only queftion before
the Court.

VOL. IIIJ

H

50
4

CAsEs

ruled and adjudged in the

1795, bring the party to a hearing, whatever firi&nefs of proof may
be exa6ted to warrant his being delivered. In England the
diftindion is uniformly recognized: the grounds for iffuing a
warrant are not ftrong; for finding an indictment they muff
be ftronger ; and for convi6lion and judgment they are always
violent. The confruction contended for, in fupport of the
motion, involves no inconveniency ; becaufe the Judge muff
receive a reafona le fatisfaction before he iffues his warrant ;
and before he delivers the deferter, he may infifi on the exhibi-:
tion of the roll : but the adverfe doctrine is attended with the
moft embarraffing confequences. Suppofe a man dleferts juff
as the veffel fails on a diftant voyage, muft ihe return to port ?
According to the maritime regulations, her Regifter muft remain on board; and, in fuch a cafe, a deferter could never be
furrendered. Again:-z-Suppofe a French veffel of war takes
a prize, puts a part of her crew on board, and fends the prize
to thmerica, while fhe remains herfelf at fea: the mariners may
defert from the'prize with impunity, under the very eye of
the minifter or conful ; as the original roll would continue on
board.the veffel of war. If there are feveral prizes fent in, the.
difficulty is proportionally encreafed. But all thofe embarraff-,
ments are avoided by a different interpretation of the article :by allowing the deferters to be arrefted, even on a reafonable.
fufpicion, and to be detained 'till proof of their defertion can be
procured. The detention, however, could not, under fucli
pircumftances, exceed three months, agreeably to the terms of
the treaty; an'd that part of the article feems ftrongly to pre-.
fume the veffel to be abfent at the time of the arreft, as it
provides for his imprifonment until he can be fent out of the
country. -On the adverfe conftruction, like-wife, the article
Tnuft be deemed to regard as one act, the infpertion of the roll,
the iffliing of the warrant, and the furrender qf the deferter;
which would operate as a general prefs warrant, and might become dangerous in the extreme to the liberty of the citizens;
for, every man bearing a name enrolled upon the (hip's regifter, would be liable to be arrefied and put on board a French
to the arrei; Still,
veffel, if no hearing took plage fubfequent
fpeaks of a conful',lrticle
however, it is clear, that when the
addreffing himfelf to our courts, it is in order to procure affifiance '4 to fend th2 deferters back, and trafifport them out of
the countryj" aild not merely to obtain an arreft: Btut the queftioii then arifes, whether, even for the purpofe of obtaining a
delivery of the deferter, there muft be an actual production of
the regifter, or fhlip's roll . Is that the only proof which can be
palowed, or is it merely the fpecification of one mode of proof,
without excluding other modes? The article provides for a
but
CIfq in. which' thqre
eithetq
"'
'" peremptorily, be a " delivery;
' " fiall,

SUPREMA

dOUR't"ot

the Onited Statei.

heitherin its terms, nor in its nature, does it preclude a delivery 1795.1
in other cafes, where the fads are fatisfadtorily afcertained by ,y..J
other evidence. The inconveniences of that dodrine would
be infurmountable. -There muft be an original roll to produce
in every DiftriA into which a deferter fhould efcape- If the
roll were burnt, and all the crew defert, nay if the deferters
themfelves were to feize upon and deifroy the roll, the Judge is
not only under no obligation to arreft and deliver them, but he
is precluded from doing fo. Such aconftrution, fodeftrufive
of the fair advantages of a public compa&, ought not to be to,
lerated. " All civil laws and all contrads in general, (fays
Rutherford, 2 In/i. B. 2. c. 7"f 8- p. 327.) a1e to be fo conftrued as to make them produce no other effeL, but what is
confiffent with reafon, or with the law of nature." It is inconfifRent with reafon, that a provifion intended to guard the
contrating parties from tile
inconveniency of the defertion of
their mariners, hould, in the very m ode of ekpreffion, defeat
itfelf; and that interpretationi which renders a treaty null and
without effed, cannot be admitted. Fatt.B. 2. c. 17. f. 281i
287. 29o . Nor is the common law without an analogy, competent to obviate the difficulty ; for, wherever ain
original is either a record, or of a public nature, and would be evidence, if
produced, an immediate fworn copy will avail. 5 WJood. p.
320. Efpinaffe. As, in the inflance of the Gottonian eallee.
tion, whofe papers are not allowed to be lent abroad, a
copy is always received in evidence ; and fince a fhip's regifier
muf, from the nature of the inftrument and the rules of the marine, be on board, the reafon is, furely, equally cogent, for
receiving a copy of it in proof on any judicial enquiry, when
the ihip is neceffarily at a diftance. The oppofite argument
goes, indeed, to exclude Aronger teftimony than the roll ; for
a deferter's confeffion of the fa&, before the Judge, would not
be fufficient to difpenfe with the produdtion of the infcrurnent
itfelf. The Conflitutions of the United States and of the
State of Pennfylvania, feem to have made no provifion (except
the former in the cafe of treafon) for a convilion by the confeffion of the party; yet, the abfurdity of proceeding to try a
man for a crime, after he has pleaded guilty to the charge, has
bten too obvious to receive any fandion from the pra.tice of
our courts. But that abfu-rdity is urged as law in the prefent
cafe. Captain Barre had confeffed the exiftence of the roll
fubfcribed by him, and his defertion from the (hip, fRill, it is
contended, that the Judge muff wait for the exhibition of the
roll to prove the fact acknowledged ;-" to take a bond of fate;
and make affurance doubly fure." This, however, would be
a mociing of juffice-a palpable evafion of the tr'eatv. It is
fiaid, that the furrender of deferters is an act odious on principles

52
1795.

CASES

ruled and adjudged in the

pies of humanity, as well as policy; but the remark fi n6C
uniformly juft. In the cafe of one army giving encouragement to deferters from another, the furrender would be faith-lefs and iniquitous ; bat that bears no analogy to the prefent"
cafe ; and, in another cafe, which is analogous to the prefent4
the United States have thought it fo reafonable and right, that
they have directed any deferter, under contract for a voyage,
to be apprehended, and delivered to the Captain of the fhipAat Coqtgrefs, ch. 29" f 7. paffed 2otb july, i79o. But the
article of the treaty is affirmative, or directory, and not negative and the diffinction in confrhuing laws fo diftinguifhed
could never be more properly enforced. Thus, though the
flatute of Renry for holding the Q~larter Seffions, prefcribes a particular day, the court being held on another day,
it was deemed valid. So, where a day was fixed by the act for appointing overfeers of the poor, the appointment was good, tho'
made on another day. Upon the wh6le, the proof given, and
tendered in this care, was, ift, the warrant of the Diftrict
Judge'of Pennfylvania, which, on common law principles,
would be fufficient to procure the indorfement or warrant of
any other Judge ;-zd, the official letters and tQatement of
-Captain Barre, proving the fa&, as conclufively to every purpofe of truth and juftice, as the exhibition of his fignature to
the fhip's toll ; and being, in effet, a written confeffion, a
fpecies of proof which is admitted even in the cafe of treafon :
-and 3d, a copy of the ihip's roll certified by the Vice-Conful. This ought not, perhaps,, to be regarded as complete
evidence under the 5th ar.ticle of the Convention, which feems
only to relate to ads made before, or taken in the prefence
of, the Conful. It is, however, entitled to, at leaft, as much
refpeft as a Notarial Certificate, which commands full faith
in all commercial countries.
'II. If, then, the Judge ought not to have refufed a warrant
for apprehending Captain ,Barre, this Court ought to compel
him to grant one, by iffuing a mandamus. The general principle of iffuing that writ, is founded on the necellity of affording a competent remedw for every right ; and it conftrains all
inferior Courts to perform their duty, unlefs they are vefted
with a difiretion. Pfp. 3 Burr. j267. The Treaty is tha
fupreme law of the land ; and if an abiblute diferetion is given to the Diftrid Judge, it'is conceded, that this Court cannot
interpofe to controul and decide it. But much will depend on
the nature of the difcretion given to the Judge ; fince a legal
difcretion is fometimes as much implied in the exercife of a
minifterial, as in the exercife of a judicial fundion. In the
prefent cafe the Treaty contemplates an arreft, and a delivery
of the dei'rter : it. may, therefore, be confidered as ore thing

SUPREME COURT

of the United States.

to iffue the warrant, and as another, very different in nature and 1795,
jurifdiaion, to decide upon a hearing of the parties. In Stra. k .,,%
88x, a mandamus was refufed, becaufe the granting of a licence
was difcretionary in the Juftices: but wherever- an A& of
Parliament peremptorily dire&s a thing to be done, though it
fhould be of a Judicial nature, if no difcretion is vefted in the
inferior officer or Court, a mandamus will lie. Thus, theaas
of the Judge of Probates, &c. are judicial acts ; yet, as the
Act of Parliament declares that adminiftration fhall be granted
to the next of kin, a mandamus will iffue directing the admini(lration to be granted to the next of kin, and if it appears on the
return that A. B. is next of kin, a mandamus will iffue to grant
it to him. i Stra. 42, 93, 1 x. If the Diftrict Judge had returned, that he was of opinion, that Captain Barre was not a
deferrer, it might have been fufficient ; but he has returned
that he would not examine the evidence, becaufe it was not
evidence. S uppofe the fhip's Roll had been exhibited, and the
Judge had refuf d to iffue the warrant, becaufe it appeared that
Capt.Barre had taken the oath of citizenlhip, would nota mandamus iffue under fuch circumftances ? 4. Burr. 1991. 2 Stra.
992. But iffuing the warrant is merely a minifterialact, and
where words are fo ftrongly directory as in the article of the
Treaty, without any exprefs inveftmentof difcretion, a mandamus has always been awarded. I Wilf. !283. I Black. Rep.64o.
xx Stra. 553. 113. Doug. 182. Though the Commiffioners returned, that they had reafon to doubt (purfuing the words of
the law of Pennfylvania, 2 Vol. Dall. Edit. p. 494) the truth
of the Bankrupt's conformity, the Supreme Court at fir&f
hefitated, whether a mandamus ought not to iffue, though it,
was eventually refufed, on the ground of the difcretion, which
the law gave to the Commiffioners. But one great ingredient
in the exercife of this controuling jurifdiction, by mandamus,
is, that there exiffs no other fpecific remedy for the party, and
that upon the principles of juftice and good government, he
ought to have one. 2 Burr. 1045. 3 Bu'rr. 1266, 1659. 4 Burr.
188. In the prefent cafe, the Diftrict Judge is the only
competent Judge to iffue the warrant ; and a writ of Error
cannot be brought merely upon his refufal to inflitute the procefs.
BY THE COURT: We are clearly and unanimoufly of opi-

nion, that a mandamus ought not to iffue. It is evident, that
the Difirict Judge was acting in a judicial capacity, when he
determined, that the evidence was not fufficient to authorize
his iffuing a warrant for apprehending Captain Barre : and
(whatever might be the difference of fentiment entertained by
this Court) we have no power to compel a Judge to decide
according to Eie dictatos of any judgment, but his own. It is
,inneceffary,

54
1795.

1CASEs ruled and adjudged in the

unneceffary, however, to declare, or to form, at this time, any
opinion, on the queftion which has been fo much agitated, refpecting the evidence required by the 9 th article of
the Confular Convention.
The Rule difcharged.

Sconclufive

PENHALLOW, et al. verfus DOANE'S Admint/rators,

T

HIS was a Writ of Error, directed to the Circuit Court

for the Diftrict of New-Hampihire. The cafe was argued from the 6th to the i7 th of February; the Attorney Ge.
ineral of the United States, (Bradford) and Ingerfoll, being
Counfel for the Plaintiffs in error ; and Dexter, Tilgbman and
Lewis, being Counfel for the Defendants in error.
The Cafe, reduced to an hiftorical narrative, by Judge Pafe-/on, in delivering his opinion, exhibits thefe features •
•" This caufe has been much obfcured by the irregularity of
the pleadings, which prefent a medley of procedure, partly ac,cording to the common, and partly according to the civil,
law. We muft endeavour to extract a hate of the cafe from
the Record, Documents, and Acts, which have been exhibited,
It appears, that on. the 25 th of November, I775 (i Your.
.Congrefs, 259) Congrefs paffed a feries of Refolutions refpecting captures. Thefe Refolutions are as follow :
"Whereas it appears from undoubted information, that many veffels, which had cleared at the refpectiveCuftom-houfes
in thefe Colonis, agreeable to the regulations eftablifhed by
"1 Acts of the
Yitifb Parliament, have, in a lawlefs manner,
41 without even the femblance ofjuft authority, been feized by
"1 his Majefty's fhips of war, and carried into the harbour of
1Bojion, andother ports, where they have been rifled of their
" cargoes, by order of his Majefty's naval and, military officers,
€'there commanding, without the faid veffels having been pro' ceeded againif by any form of trial, and without the charge of
" having offended againf1 any law.
" And
whereas orders have been Jifued in his Majefty's
" name, tothe commanders of his f"hips of war, to proceed as
"in the cafe of adEual rebellion againrc fuch of the fea-pbrt
' towns and places being acceflible to the king's fhips, in
(V-which any troops fhall be raifed or military works ereaed,
CC
under

