SUPREME COURT of the United States.

1795.
BINGHAM,

T

Plaintiff in Err. verfus

CABEOT

et al.

HIS was a writ of errror to remove the proceedings. from

the Circuit Court, for the diftriA of Maqfacufetts;
and on the return of the reccord, it appeared, that the defendants in error, being joint owne's of the armed "fhip called the
Pilgrim, formerly commanded by Hugh Hill, had inifituted
an adion on the cafe againft the Plaintiff in error, in the Circuit Court for the diftrift of alq/acbufetts, of June Term,
!794. in which a declaration was filed, containing the following counts :-iff Count. Theft the Plaintiff in Error, at St.
Pierre, on the 8th of May, 1779, was indebted to the Defendants in Error in the fum of 16,969 dollars and 69 cents, for
goods fold and delivered, according to the. account annexed;
which account was in thefe words :-" JJ iliam Bingham, Efq.
to the owners of the privateer fhip Pilgrim, commanded in the
late war by Hugh Hill, on her firif cruife, Dr.
1779,
To xooo barrels of flour he received
8th May. at Martinique, or from on board, the
privateer Hope, Ole Ieilm maffer,
captured by the fhip Pilgrim, and
carried into Martinique, previous to
8th May, 1779, at 14o livres currency
per barrel,
livres, 140,000
which furn in the currency of the
, 6,969 69
United States, is
Intereft to 9th January, 1793,
13,915 84
Dolls. 30885 53"
2d Count. Quantum valehat for Ioo barrels of flour, with
an averment that they are worth 16,969 dollars 69 cents. 3d
Count. Money had and received by the plaintiff in error, to
the ufe of the defendant in error. 4 th Count. That the plaintiff in error was bailiff of the fame flour, to fell and account for
it to the defendants' in error; with an averment that the flour
biad been long fold but never accounted for. 5 th Count. Q#uantum valebat for 500 barrels of the like flour, with an averment that it was worth ioooo dollars. 6th. Count. Quan.
turn va'ebat for one undivided moiety of iooo barrels of
-flour, with an averment that it was worth Io,ooo dollars.
The plea of non afumpfit was entered to this declaration; and
thereupon iffue was joined.
The material fads attached to the cause were of the following import :-TThe Pilgrim, being on a cruife off the RockV
Of

20

1795.

CASES

ruled and adjudged in the

of LifDon, on the ith of November, 1778, captured a brig
Scalled the Hope, Ole Heilm commander, and put on board
William Carlton, as a prize-mafter, who carried the fuppofed
prize, on the 15th January, 1779, into Martinique, where
the plaintiff in error refided as a public agent of the United
States. On examination it appeared that the prize was Danih
property, and that her cargo belonged to Portuguefe merchants; both thofe nations being at peace with France and.
America; but there being no courts of admiralty eftabliffied at
that time in Martinique, competent to decide on the validity
of captures as prize, mIade by American veffels, and the neutral
captain after a 16ng detention, on account of repairs, being
folicitous to depart, the Marquis de Bouidle, governor of the
Ifland (to whom authority was delegated by the Conf{itution
of the French government- to fupply the deficient.parts of the
civil polity) made the following order, dated the 2d Oftober,.
1779, which was regiftered in the admiralty office of the borough of St. Pierre. " Francis Claude Amour, Marquis de
.Bouille, Marjhal de Camp, of the King's armies, commander
general of the French troops, militia, fortifications, and artil'lery of the French Windward Iflands; and governor and lieutenant general of. the iflands of M/artinique and Dominique;
We do certify, that the American privateer, named the Pilgrm,
having condu6ed into the ifland of Martinique,a Danibh brigantine, loaded on account of the fubjeas of His Moft Faithful
Majefty, as far as appeared to us, and not on account of the
fubjes of the King of England, We have ordered that the faid
cargo in litigation ffould be fold, and the freight paid to the
captain of the Danifh brig, out of the cargo under the care and
dire&ion of William Bingham, agent of Congrefs: And the
pett proceeds, of (aid cargo, dedu6tion made of all other charges,
fhould remain in the hands of (aid Bingham, to deliver itto
whonifoever it may appertain, agreeable to the judgment and
orders of Congrf.a,
BOUILLE, &C."
(Signed)
Before, however, the MIarquis de Bouille's orders were iffued,
Mr. Bingham had taken the cargo of the Hope into his cufto-,
dy; and on the 2d of February, 1779, addreffed a letter to
the Commercial Committee of Congrefs, in which, after men.
tioning the capture and arrival of the prize, he ftates, " that
upon receipt of the papers (of which he then tranfmitted copies)
found on board, he laid them before the judge of the court of
Admiralty at Martinique, who was of opinion that neither the
veffel nor cargo could with any propriety be molefted on the
,high feas, by either American or French armed vefills. But
(/i, 28in2gbqm adds) that as this veffl is itncapable of proceed,,
Ing.

SUPREME COURT of the United States..
iig on an European voyage, without great repairs, which I79.
will naturally fubjed her to a confiderable detention ; and as
her cargo confifis of a lerifhable commodity, he (hall difpofe
of it at Martinique,pay the captain his freight, what damages
he may be entitled to, and fhall give him permiffion to take
his departure. Indeed the General infifts that the cargo ihould
be difpofed of, as the Ifland is in great want of flour; and as
the fales will be more advantageous to the owners here, it may
make the misfortune lefs heavy on the concerned. The proceeds, after paying the neceffary expences of the veffel, fhall
be placed (continues Mr. Bingham) to the credit of the Commercial Committee of Congrefs, to affift in paying the advances which he had made at Martiniqueon the public account :
and he is the more inclined to convert it to this ufe, as he is
perfuaded, that Congrefs will not have to reimburfe it, until
the claim of the real owner in Europe is made clear and manifeff. It appeared by an account of fales, figned by Mr.
Bingham on the 8th of May, 1779, that the flour had been
fold, at different periods, from the 21ft of January to the
8th of May, 1779, and that the nett proceeds, which he placed
" to the credit of the Owners of prize flour," amounted to
lvres 107,621 14 6.
The owners of the Pilgrim being diffatisfied with the proceedings that had taken place in relation to the cargo of the
Hope, inflituted in the Common Pleas of Suffolk county, Mafachufetts, an ation of Trover for the iooo barrels of flour, in
the name -of W'illiam Carlton, the prize-mafter, againfi Mr.
Bingham; and attached Mr. Bingham's property, in the hands
of Mr. Thomas Rufel, of Boron, to .anfwer the judgment of
the court. To this action (which was brought to Oflober
Term, 1779) the defendant pleaded not guilty, iffue was thereupon joined, and judgment was rendered for the defendant.
An appeal was brought to the Supreme Judicial Court of
.Mafachufetts,at February Term, 1781, by William Carlton;
it was tried on the x7 th February, 1784i a verdit was given
for Mr. Bingham, the defendant; and judgment was entered
accordingly. When this action at law was commencedi Mr.
Bingham, by a letter dated at Martinique, the 6th of Ot7ober,
1779, and addreffed to the Commercial Committee of Congrefs, remonfirated againft the proceeding, as he had aaed
bonafide, in his official chara&er ; and Congrefs paffed the following refolutions upon the fubje6:-" November 30, 1779.
,Refolved, That Mr. Bingham's letter of the 6th of Oc7ober laff,
with the papers enclofed therein, and marked No. I, 2, 3, 4,
together with a certified copy of his appointment to the place
of Qontinental Agent, be tranfmitted by the Prefident to the
legiflature

CASES ruled and adjudged in the

T795. legiflature of the State of Ma.achufetts-Bay, with the followp,

~ ing letter:

" Gentlemen,
"I am direaed by Congrefs to tranfmit to you the enclofed.
papers from Mr. Bingham. They contain an account of his
proceedings relative to a veffel, faid to be Dani/h property,
captured by the floop Pilgrim, and carried into Martinique,
about which, as he fays, a fuit is now commenced againft him
in your Superior Court. Upon a full examination of the papers, you will judge of the meafures, which ought to be adopted
to prevent, on the one hand, injuftice to individuals, and on
the other, the embarraffment of agents, who are obliged to conform to the will of the ruling, powers at the place of their refidence. As courts are now infituted at Martinique for the
trial of fuch caufes, Congrefs fubmit to you whether it would
not be advifeable to flop the fuit already commenced, till
judgment is obtained upon the principal queftion; after which
it will be in Mr. Bingham's power to difcharge himfelf, by
delivering to the true owners the property placed in his hands
for their ufe. If you Ihould be of a contrary opinion, they
requeft you to furnifh Mr. Bingham's agent with the enclofeki
papers.
I am, &c."
The Legiflature of Maffachuifetts taking no order on this
application, Congrefs again entered upon the fubje&, and on
the !zoth June, 178o, "Refolved, That the General of Marti-.
nique, in ordering the cargo of the brig Hope to be fold, and
the money to be depofitedin the hands of Mr. W. Bingham,
till the legality of the capture could be proved, (no courts being at that time inflituted for the determining of fuch captures
in that ifland,) hewed the ftri&eft attention to the rights of
the claimants, and the higheft refpea to the opinion of Congrefs ;
"That Mr. TV. .Bingham, in receiving the fame, only a6led
in obedience to the commands of the General of Martinique,
and in conformity with his duty as agent for the United
States.
" Refolved, That Congrefs will defray all the expences that
Mr.
illiam Bingham may be put to by reafon of the fuits
now depending, or which may hereafter be brought againft
him in the State of Maffachufetts Bay, on account of the brig
I-Hope, or her cargo, claimed as prize by theowners, mafter and
mariners of the private (hip of war called the Pilgrim.
'$ And whereas the goods of the faid W'Jilliam Bingham, to a
yery confiderable amount, are attached in the faid fuits now
depending in the hands of the fac'ors of tli faid W. Bingham,
to his great injury:
Refolved1

SUPREME COURT of

the United States.

" Refolved, That the General Court of the State of Maffd- ic'
cbufetts Bay, be requefted to difcharge the property of the faid
W. Bingham from the faid attachment: Congrefs hereby pledging themfelves to pay all fuch fims of money, with cofis of
fuit, as may be recovered againcf the faid WP.Bingham) if!
either or both the above a&ions."
" Refolved, That the Navy Council at Bofion, be dire&ed to
give fuch fecurity, in the name of the United States, as thl
court may require, and to dire& the counfel now employed by
Mr. Bingham, in the defence of the faid a&ions.
Such were the circumftances of the caufe now under confideration when it came to trial in the Circuit Court, before
_7u.tice CUSHING, an affociate Judge of the Supreme Court
alone.* Mr. Bingham's counfel offered to give the following
documents in evidence to the jury : I.Office copies certified
under the hand and feal of the Secretary of State, of the papers
found on board the Hope, of depofitions relating to the capture, taken officially before Mr. Bingham, as a public agent ;
of Mr. Bingham's letter of the 2d of February, 1779, and other
fubfequent correfpondence and depofitions in relation to the
capture, addreffed to the commercial committee of Congrefs;
and of the Marquis de Bouifle's order. Thefe documents weie
ftitched together, and were included in one certificate from the
Secretary of State. 2. The account Sales of the flour at
Martinique, dated the 8th of May, r779, and the account
Sales of the property which had been attached in the action of
Trover, brought by Calton v. Bingham. 3. The record int
the Inferior and Superior Courts of Maffachufetts, in, the cafe
of Carlton v. Bingham. 4. The Refolutions of Congrefs,
paffed refpectively on the 3 d Nov. 1779, and the 2oth June,
178o. But the Court reje~ted all the' evidence ; (though ii
would feem from the record, that a part of it muft have been
admitted, in the courfe of the Plaintiff's proofs) and a Bill of'
Exceptions was tendered and allowed., in the following words:
" And the faid William Bingham, being now here in Court, by
James Sullivan and Chriftopher Gore, PEfquires, his attornies,
the iffue joined in the fame cafe, and a jury on the fame
duly and legally impannelled, prays leave to file a Bill of Exceptions to the determination of the faid Court here had on the
evidence, which by the faid Bingham is offered in this cafe, and
by which determination the faid evidence is excluded, and the
faid Bingham is denied the advantage of giving the fame to the
jury in the fame cafe, viz. The feveral copies attefted by ThoIn the Caption, indeed, of the record, Juflice Lowcl,. the Diftri" Judge, is
named as prefent ; but it is contradi6tcd by a fpecial entry in the margin, in thcft
words :-.I N. U. Judge Lowell did not fit
in thi2 caufz."

24

*

1795.

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

mas Jefferfon, and which are hereunto annexed, and numbered
from one to eighteen inclufively ; and alfo three other papers,
numbered 23, 24, 25 ; all which papers had a tendency to
prove, that no intereft ought to be allowed by the jury, on the
fum for which the Plaintiffs declare, in their third count, or damages, for the detention of the money therein mentioned and
declared on ; and by the exclufion whereof, the faid Bingham
does fuftain manifeft injury and wrong, as he conceives. And
the faid Bingham further files his exception to the determination of the fame Court, by which the papers numbered from
27 to 36, inclufively, were excluded ; and which papers contain a complete record of the Supreme Judicial Court of the
commonwealth of Maffachufetts, wherein William Carlton,
w ho had been, as the faid Bingham avers, and as appears by the
evidence in the cafe, in poffeffion of the fame flour declared on
in the faid third count in the plaintiff's declaration, had fued in
an a~tion of trover for the fame ; and by which record it appears that fiuch proceedings were had in the fame Court, as
would fully fhew, as the faid Bingham conceives, that the faid
Plaintiffs-had no legal right to change the fame acion, after
the judgment in the fame record fpecified, into an aaion of affumpfit, or as principals to imp.lead the faid Bingham again af-,
ter the caufe of a-tion had been tried, adjudged, and determined, .in
an adion of Trover, wherein the fpecial Bailiffs of the
Plaintiffs, as the faid Bingham avers, in this fuit had fo impleaded the faid Bingham to verdi& and judgment in the fame
caufe, and for the fame caufe of afion. And that the determination to reje& the fame papers, is wrong-becaufe that if the
fame papers are admitted to be given to the jury, the evidence
therein contained will have a legal tendency to leffen the dainages, if not wholly defeat the affion of the Plaintiffs. "
" And the faid Bingham further files in this his Bill of Exceptions, that the Court did reje& and refufe to have read to the
jury in the trial as evidence, a Refolution of the Congrefs of
the United States of America, of the thirteenth of November,
1779; alfo another Refolution of the fame Congrefs of tha
twentieth of June, 178o, both which were concerning the fubjea matter of the fuit.
"1Wherefore, that jufticeby due procefs of law,may bedone,
in this cafe, the faid Bingham, by the underfigned his Counfel,
prays the Court here, that this his Bill of Exceptions may be
filed and certified as the law direas.
JA. SULLIVAN,
C. GORE.
C June i6, 1794, Allowed to be filed per
W m .CUSHING, Judge of
faid Circuit Court."-

SUPREME

CoU.r of the United States.

A verdi& was then given for the Defendant in error, upon I795.
the third count, for money had and received, damages 29,18o
dollars r6 cents, and for the Plaintiff in error on all the other
counts : and, thereupon, judgment was rendered for damages
and coffs. A motion was made on behalf of the Plaintiff
in error, for a new trial, on two grounds :-I. Exceffive damages : and 2. A mifdirection in the Judge's charge to the
jury ; theJudge having direded the jury, " that the law was
fuch, that, on the evidence offered in the caufe, the Plaintiffs
ought to recover; whereas the evidence given was fuch as
clearly proved, that the flour mentioned in the third count, was,
the joint property of the Plaintiffs below, as they were owners
of the fhip Pilgrim, and of the mafters, mariners and company
on board the fame lhip; to wit. of the Plaintiffs below, and
Hugh Hill, and others, jointly: by which evidence, if any
contra& was proved in the cafe, it was a contra& between the
faid Bingham with the Plaintiffs and divers other perfons jointly, who are not Plaintiffs, or mentioned in the writ, and who
are now alive within the United States." But A new trial was§
refufed.
On the return of the record, (to which were annexed feveral 4lepofitions and papers produced in the court below, as well
as the papers referred to in the Bill of Exceptions) the following errors were afligned ; the Defendant in error pleaded in
nullo e? erratum ; and iffue was thereupon joined :
x. That judgment had been given for the Plaintiff, inflead
of the Defendant below, on the 3 d Count.
2. That the Circuit Court, proceeding as a Court of Common Law, in an a&ion on the cafe, for money had and received,&c. had no jurifdiaion of the caufe; the queftion, as it
appears on the record, being a queftion of prize, or no prize,
or wholly dependent thereon ; and, as fuch, it was, exclufively
of Admiralty jurifdi&ion.
3. That the evidence referred to in the Bill of Exceptions,
ought not to have been reje6ted on the trial of the caufe.:
The argument which) commenced on the 15th of February,
1795) was condu~qed by Bradford (Attorney-General of the
United States) and Lewls, for the Plaintiff in error ; and by
Ingerfoll, Dexter, and E. 71ilghman, for the Defendant in error.
IHE COURT defiring the counfel, in the firft infiance, to
difcufs the queftiin ofjurifdi&ion, the cafe prefents itfelf under the following general heads. I. Exceptions to the jurif.
didion. I. Exceptions to the record.
I. The Exceptions to the jurifdi6lion.
For the Plaintiffin Error. The fubje& matter of the action is prize, or no prize; and it is, with all its confequenices,
exclufively of Admiralty jurifdiaion. The a&ion is not trefVoL. 111.
E
pafs,

26

CASEs ruled and adjudged in the

1795.- pafs, for a tort in taking the goods; but it is an affion of .f~fumpfit; and the plaintiffs below cannot make out a right to
recover from the defendant, who is charged as receiver and
agent, unlefs they firif prove the veffel to be a prize. They
muff fhew to whom the property belonged; and if the court
adjudge, that the proceeds of the fales was money had and received to the ufe of the plaintiff; it is, in effe&, pronouncing
a fentence, that the veffel (which has not even yet been condemned) was a prize. Carth. 474. Doug. 596. (in not.) 3
'1. Rep. 344" 4

. Rep. 382. 394. i Dall. Rep. a2I. 2 Dall.

Rep.
For the Defendant in Error. It is.true, as a general propofition, that all prize caufes, and their incidents, are of Admiralty jdrifdi6tion ; but there are fome limitations to the operation of the rule. In the prefent cafe, there is, in fa&, no
queftion of prize; but even in cafes, where that queftion is
naturally involved, the courts of common law have, incidentally, tried and decided it; as in cafes upon policies of infurance
and ranforfi. 3 Burr. 1734. Doug. 579. 580. 2 Lev. 25.
r Pent. i 7 3 . 4 Infl. 138. I Raym. 27r. 3 Woodes. 450. I.
2. 3. 2 Saund. 259. 2 Burr. 683. 693. I Vif. 229. Doug.
310. to 314. 4 T. Rep. 393. i H. Bl. 52-. In a variety of
cafes, likewife, the fubjecft may be traced to an original queftion of prize, and yet the Admiralty can take no cognizance of
it. Suppofe, for infiance, a captor fells his prize; he may,
furely, brinL an a6tion at common law for the purchafe money • or, if a Taylor fhould detain a man's coat; it will be no anfwer to an a6tion of Trover, that the cloth was taken in a
prize. Indeed, it may be itated, generally, that whenever the
queftion of prize is at reft, the admiralty jurifdi&ion ceafes.
7. Rep. 432. 2 Dall. Rep. 174. 1 Wi/f 211. 4 7. Rep.
393. .4rg. 3 . Rep. 342. 8. i Burr. 8. 526. Doug. 572 to
591. The exclufive jurifdiaion of the Admiralty does not,
then, depend on the property having been originally taken as
prize ; but on the nature of the controverfy, arifing on the
high feas, affeffing, ufually, the rights and interefis of different States; and, confequentlv, depending on principles, which
ought to be decided by the law of nations, and not by the municipal law of either country. It is not contended, however,
that in every caufe which appears to be between citizen and
citizen, the courts of common law are always to decide; for,
if the general nature of the controverfy may involve foreign
fubje~ts, and foreign rights, the 'Admiralty is the regular
and appropriate tribunal. Thepofition extends no further,
than to thofe cafes, which commonly occur on land, between
citizen and citizen (though originating in acapture at fea) and

with refpe& to which the Admiralty has not any, much lefs an
exclufiv¢

SUPREE COURT of the United

Siates.

exclufive, jurifdi&ion. Such is the caufe now litigated. It is 1795.
a tranfaffion on land between the captors of the veffel, and
their agent. The original owners are not, and could not be
parties to the fuit; and their rights cannot be fet up to juftify
the Plaintiff in error, who does not claim under them, nor at
by their authority. 'Then, it is to be obferved, that there is
,nothing upon the record to fhew that the controverfy grew
out of a prize caufe. , Though the declaration flates the Plaintiffs to be owners of the privateer, it does not tate that the
property in difpute was captured by her; and the verdi& is only upon the third count in the declaration (the count for money had and received) and all the other counts, which refer to
the capture, are put, by the finding of the jury, entirely out
of the cafe.* The third Count does nOt reter to the account
annexed
*WILSoN,
7ufliee. The bill of exceptions tates the evidence offered
and rejefted ; and it forms a part of the record. Befides, this is a queftion of juriffdiction: And was not jurifdiction as much exercifed in
relation to the counts, which were difpofed of in favor of the defendant
below, as in relation to the count, which was difpofcd of, iii favor of
the plaintiffs ?
J
PA'TERSON, _eufltce. Is it contended, that the account annexed to
the declaration does not fupport the third count, on which the verdict
is given ; and that we cannot take notice of it ?
-Dexter, for the Defendant in Error. The bill of exceptions does not include all the interpolated evidence, and refers to evidence not tranfmitted: It does not ftare what was given in evidence, but only whit
was rejected. With refpect to the account annexed, it is only confidered
as making a part of the record, in relation to thofe counts of the declara.
tion which refer to it ; and all thofe counts are put out of the cafe by
the finding of the jury. The third count does not refer to it ; and'; indeed;
if there had only been a tingle count for money had and received, the
account would not have been annexed, agreeably to the practice in the
courts of Maffachufetts
PAT1teRSON, _tflice. What is to be regarded as the record, feems to
be a preliminary point, material to be fettled ; and we muft either
adopt the peculiar practice of Maffachufitts, or purfue the general practice
of the common law.
Dexter. It is the practice in Maffachuftts, to accompany an exemplification with all the written evidence and papers; but the doings of the

parties, and of the coait, are alone to be taken as conftituting the record.

The oral teftimony cannot be tranfmitted ; and yet that may be more
effential to the iffue, than what appears in writing.
Bradford, fr the Plaintiff in Error. The facts muft he confidered as they
appear upon the whole record ; and by the exhibit of the plaintiffs themfelves, annexed to the declaration, it appears to be a queftion of prize.
CusurNO, Yuflice.

There was other evidence (fome of it parel) given

on the trial, belides what now appears on the record. If, then, we fuppofe
that contradictory evidence may be given to thejury, and that they have
a right to believe the ceftimony of one witnefs, and to reject the tefti-

mony of another, I am at a lofs to conceive, how the court could,

under fuch circumitances, Irate what was proved on thetrial. But with

refpect to the'record, the practice of MAfachaufrt is plain and obvious.
The declaration and pleadings in every fiti, are entered in a book; and
all the papers and exhibits are filed in the Clerk's office. The book

is alone deemed the record ; and the papers and exhibits are only referred to, for the purrofe of afccrtaining what writ iffued) or what depofktioas have been taken.

CASEs ruled and adjudged in the

anioexed to *the declaration ; and, therefore, that account iannot be'taken into view, to fhew that the queftion depends on
a capture as prize. The depofitions and papers arbitrarily
ponne*d with the record by the Clerk below (and which
do not comprife all the evidence given on the trial) are not legally a part of the record; they cannot be reforted to, in order
to afeertain the nature of the controverfy ; but muft be rejeded
as furplufage: And this court cannot took at the flatement in
the bill of exceptions, to difcover the complexion of the calife ;
.for, the only point to be decided, in thatrefpe&, is-whether'
the court below was, or was not, right, in rejeding the evi,dence that was offered. Bull. N. P. 315. 3 Burr. 1745.
Befides, this. court cannot reverfe the judgment for error in
fa& ; (i Fol. Swift's Edit. f 2z. p. 62.) and, therefore, they cannot, in the prefent cafe, any more than in the cafe of a fpecial
verdi4, infer a fat, or take notice of any fad refulting from
the depqfitions and papers annexed to the record, which the
jury has not exprefsly found.* 3 BL. CoM. 407. The proof
on the third count, may have been of money received to the
plaintiff's u-fe independent of the account annexed, or of any
queftiorf relatin to the prize; 4nd, as the court will prefume everyi hin , that they reafonably and lawfully can,
in fupport of a v~rdi& and judgment, the fum given in
damages will be taken to reach the-jufice of the cafe. i liis.
S255" 3 Bur. i786. iStra..6o8. 99/2 i". br. 598. io F/in. Abr.
x.pl. i. But, furely, it is now too late to make the exception to the
jurifdidion. 4 Burr. 2037. The defendant below ought to have
brought ',thce'queftion forward by way of plea ; or, at leaft, if
it appeared on the'evidence, he fhould have required tha opinion of the court in the charge to the jury ; but whenever evi4ence is allowed to go to a jury, without cOiception, the verdid
is conclufive ; and the evidence can never afterwards be examined on a writ of error. 2 Lutw. 1566. Ho/t. 301. So
what' is 'pleadable in abaiment, is not affignable as error. 4
Burr. 2037.. Taking, therefore, a full and candid view of the
cafe, as it appears utpon what may legally be denominated the
record, it is not a .eife of prize, but a cafe of principal and
.faior. The plaintiff in error obtained poffeffion of the flour
under the authority, and as the agent, of the defendants in error : he cannot di~fipte that atthority i the flour, in his poffef-.
fion, belonged to his principal; and when i't was fold, the mo'ney was the money of his principal. Thi's dodrine does not
exclude the idea of an inveftigation'of the lawfulnefs of the
capture, at a proper time, between proper parties, and before
a proper
.

PAi-rPRsoNr, _ufJicr. The court cannot infer a fact from a fact ;but
if the fact is on.the record, we may infer the law.
'

SUPRETME COURT of the United States. ,

29

a proper tribunal. .If-i competent Court of Admiralty had 1795.
been eftablifhed at Martinique, an immediate proceeding there,
would have obviated every difficulty;- and it ought not to be
urged by the plaintiff 'in error, that the captors have never
fince proceeded to condemn the veffel, as it was by his aq they
were deprived of the fhip's papers and other means for doing
fo. But even an American Court of Admiralty may take cognizance of the queftion of prize ; and, in the hands of the cap•tors, the money would always be liable to the claims of the
,captured. To maintain the prefent affion, however, a flecial
property is fufficient ; and the captors have a fpecial property
before the condemnation.' There are, indeed, many inftances
.of prizes being brought into port and fold, before they were
condemned ; upon the general principle, that the property is
vefted in the captor, .when~ever the original owner has loft the
pes recuperandi.. But-when the plaintiff in error fold the prize
.goods.without any adjudication, at a place where no Court of
'Admiralty exifted, the defendants in error had no remedy
,againft him, but at common law. It does not even appear on the
.record, that the plaintiff in error took poffeffion of the goods,
by order of the Marquis.de Bouille ; but, atall events, it is clear,
.that the Marquis had no right to examine the validity of the
.prize ; -while, on the other hand, the prize mafler had a. right,
under the 17 th article of the treaty with France, to bring the
prize from Martinique to America.
* For the Plaintiffin error, in reply. Thereis no magic in
:the word 11record," to preclude the court from exercifing their
fenfes and judgment, upon the infpe&ion and conftrudion of
.an infirument, which the judge and clerk of the Circuit Court,
have officially certified to be an exemplification of all the proceed.ings in the caufe. With'whatjuflice can it befaid, that the papers
forming a part of this exemplification, have no relation to thecontroverfy ?. Are the commiffion of the privateef, the account
fales of the prize goods, and'the order of the Marquis de Bouille, entirely unconneSed with the demand of the plaintiffs, and
the anfwer of the defendant ? The great, the only point in controverfy, was-whether, under every circumftance of the cafe,
'Mr.-Bingham was refponfible to the owners of the *privateer,
.for certain goods, which the privateer had captured as prize ?
The declaration in every count claims the fame fum that appears in the account fales, as the proceeds of the prize goods
and the reafons, urged on the motion for a new trial, fhew that
the obje&of the third count, on which the verdict had been given, was the fame as the object of the other counts, to which
alone, it has been faid, the account fales apply, But, it is alfo
contended, that the court can infer nothing from all thefe documients fince they " are to be confidered, not as faas, but only
as

30
X795.

CAsES ruled and adjudged in the

as the evidence of fafts, proper for a jury, exclufively, to decide upon." The'truth, however, is, that, it is the peculiar
province of the court to conflrue deeds and papers ; and to declare their legal operation. It is, furely, extravagant to affert,
that the court are incompetent to determine the meaning and
eff'ecl of the privateer's commi/lion, or the Marquis de Bouille's
order. If it fatisfaclorily appears, that all the proceedings and
fa&s, which belong to the caufe, have been returned, whether
the return is according to the technical precifion of Jef/mitln/er
Hall, or the informal prafice of the courts of Maffacbufetts,
being judicially here, it muft be noticed in all its parts by the
court. The only general queftion, therefore, upon the point
of jurifdiaion, is-whether from all the fa6ts, fpread throughout the proceedings of the Circuit Court, the caufe of a6ioii
fufficiently appears ? And a fummary of the evidence on the
record will demonifrate that it is a prize caufe. i. The Plaintiffs fue as owners of the privateer Pilgrim. This raifes a
legal prefumption that their whole demand is in that charaaer';
and that it muft relate to fome tranfalion of the privateer. 2.
The account annexed to the declaration, corroborates and confirms that prefumption. It ifates exprefsly, that the fuit is
brought to recover the proceeds of flour captured by the Pil.
grim i and whether it is ufual, or not, to annex fuch an account
to an a6lion fimply, for money had and received, in the
prefent inftance it was manifefily intended to exhibit th6
whole of the Plaintiff's claim. 3. The coitimiffion of this
privateer, and the papers taken on board the prize, are tht
very exhibits to be produced on a libel for condemnation ; and'
prove, unequivocally, that the caufe is of Admiraltyjurifdiction. 4 th. The order of the Marquis de Bouille, which was
regiffered in the Admiralty of Martinique,thews the tenure by
which Mr. Bingham held the property ; that is, as a depofit of
the proceeds of goods taken as prize, on thd high feas. Hence i
from the commencement to the clofe Qf the tranfa&ion, as it
appears on the return to the writ of error, nothing is to be traced as the caufe of ation, but a capture as prize and its confequencesO. But, in order to efcape from the preffure of this
proof, the moft extraordinary fubterfuges are employed; and.
the principle, that the queftion of prize belongs exclufively to
the Admiralty jurifdi&ion, is fo refined upon, as to be rendered
PATTZRSO, 7"flite. Does ir appear from any thing, befides the
Marquis deBudle's'order, that the cargo Nvas converted into cafh ?
L, adford. The depotition of Stephen Mbb, flates, that, on behalfof
the Defendants in error, he made a dcmand on Mr. Ringham for the noney,
as the proceeds of ibe flour captured by the Pilgrim ; to which thit gentlerman an xNvred, " that he had takenthe propetty for the ife of the goYernment of the United States."

infenfible

SUPa.,A,

COURT of the United States.

31

infenfible and illufory. Sometimes, it is urged, that the Plain,
tiff in error has tortioufly poffeffed himfelf of the property of
the Defendants ; fometimes, in diredt contradidion to that

idea, he is confidered as their agent, or fador ; and, finally,
purfuing a diftin& cotqrfe from either, it has been faid, that
there are neutrals concerned,. who alone are entitled to difpute
the validity of the prize, with the Defendants in error. The
ground taken by the Plaintiff in error is, on the other hand,
clear, confiftent, and fimple :---it is merely this, that the Defendant below received the property from the Marq. de Bouille,
as his agent, in the firfi inftance, in trufi, "to be delivered to
whomfoever it may appertain, agreeably to the judgment of
Congrefs." The truli, therefore, conflituted Mr. Bingham
the eventual agent of thofe perfons only to whom the property
really belonged ;-of the Defendants in error, if they could
fhew it was lawful prize ; but if not, the legal promife refulted
to the original owners. As far as the Marquis de Bouille
Could, he had determined the property to be neutral ; and every
thipg that is now faid by the Defendants in error, might be faid
with, at leafi equal force, by the. neutral claimants, to render
Mr. Bingham refponfible to them. 'Till, therefore, the validity
of the prize is eftabliflhed, the objed of his trufi cannot be
afcertained ; and the validity of the prize can only be eflabliflhed
ina Court of Admiralty. Thus, the fallacy of the oppofite argument is expofed, the moment it is confidered, that there was
no exprefs promife of the Plaintiff in error to account to the
Defendants ; for, if fuch a promife had been made, the queftion
of prize would be merged in the ajTumpfit ;-and it is conceded,
that an adion at common law might have been maintained (as
in Henderfonv. Clarkfon, 2 Dall.Rep. p. 168,9,174.) unlefs a
neutral claimant interpofed, and forbade the payment. The cafe
of Wemys verfus Linzee, et al. Doug. 31o, has been confidera-

bly fhaken by the cafe of Home verfks Camden, et al. i H. BI.
476 ; where a court of Admiralty was finally confidered as the
proper jurifdiction for effeduating an Admiralty fentence ; but
even the former cafe, properly taken, zffords no fupport to the
oppofite dodrine ; for, it proceeded entirely upon a confiru&ion
of the prize flatute of England. 1 -.Bl.522. The prizeagent is created under that flatute ; he is not compellable to
make difiribution till the prize has been condemned, (when
there is a veiled right in the captors i Wils. 211) and all the
circumrlances hew, that there had been a condemnation
before the adion was brought, though the fad is not
mentioned in the Report. On a writ of error, in the cafe
of Home verfus Camden et al 4 T. Rep. 382. the judgment
was reverfed; becaufe the prize adt did not neceflhrily take

away the jurifdiffion of the Admiralty, whil; it was the foun-

datz~orn

1795.

CASEs

1795.
'

ruled and adjudged in the

dation of all the common law jurifdiaion upon the fubjea.

lit

arguing that writ of error, the counfel urged, that " inno in-

fiance can any adverfe a6ion be maintained at law for the proceeds of prize, until the demand has been liquidated by the fentence of the proper court of jurifdi&ion:" 4 I.Rep. 385.
And 7udge SHIPPEN, in a late important decifion (Rofs et al.
Exo'rs. vs. Rittenhouf ,2 Dall. Rep. p. i6o.) reafons upon, and
affirms, the fame propofition. Nor is it material, whether neutrals and foreigners are concerned, or not ; for, it is the nature
of the queftion, a queftion of prize, and not the chara&er of
the parties to the controverfy, that efiablifhies the Admiralty jurifdi~ion. But even on this point, it is unfortunate, for the
oppofite pofition, that all the cafes cited (Le Caux v. Eden,
Lindo v. Rodney, Rous v. Hiqfard) are cafes between fubjeas
of the fame fovereign. Doug. 587. But, it has been, likewife
urged, that it is now too late to except to the jurifdi6tion of the
Circuit Court: to which, it is anfwered, that the queftior
could not be made, on the count for money had and received,
till the nature and evidence of the demand 'Were exhibited, nor
was it neceffary to require the opinion of the judge in his charge
to the jury; fince, a defe&l of jurifdiRion muftalways be noticed, whenever it appears in the proceedings*.
On the 2 7 th of February, the Court delivered their opinion
to the following effed.
PATTERSON, Juice.
Confidering, as I do, that all the
papers tranfnitted from the Circuit Court, upon a return to the
writ of error, form a part of the record in this caufe, I am
clearly of opinion, that the fubje& matter of the controverfy,
is fully and exelufively of Admiralty jurifdidion.
IREDELL, jitoice. I find it difficult, to form an opinion
on the queftion of jurifdiclion, at this flage of the caufe. I
concur inthinking, however, that all the papers, which accompany the record, fhould ba confidered as a part of it; and,
in relation to the original fuit, it appears to me, that on the
evidence exhibited by Mr. Bingham, to fhew that he ated un-.
der the orders of the Mlarquis de Bouille, the Judge fhould
have charged, and ie jury fiould have found, that he was not
refponfible to the plaintiflf.
Blut, flill, I am not ready at this moment to decide, that
the
ct szNo, 7ioice. Could not a defect ofju'ifdiction be taken advanC
tage of, on the general iffue?
Itadfor.
Yes : but thould the party chufe to avoid taking advantage
of it on the trial, the Court is bound to take notice of it, if, at any time,
it appears on the record.
yt ticc. That is, certainly, the law, if the defect of ju-,
PA',rrEoH,

rifdietion is apparent on the record.
does fo -,ppea'.

We axe now enquiring Nvhether it

SUPREME COURT

of the United States.

the Circuit Court had no juiifdi&ion. Suppofe the Plaintiffs 1795.
below had exprefsly flated in their declaration, that their caufe
of a6tion was a capture as prize ; the court would, probably,
have dire&led a nonfuit ;and yet, if the Plaintiffs had perfifted in
anfvvering when called, the jury'muft have given a iverdi.
Suppofe, again, that the controverfy had appeared from the
Defendant's evidence to turn entirely upon the queflion of
prize, the court could not, I conceive (though I fpeak here
with great diffidence) dire& the Plaintiffs to be nonfuited,
merely on the Defendant's evidence; and, unlefs a juror had
been withdrawn by content, a verdi& muft, alfd, have been
given in this event. It will not be fufficient to remark, that
the court might charge the jury tofind for the Defendant; becaufe, though the jury will generally refpe& the fentiments of
the court on points of law, they are not bound to deliver a verdid conformably to them. From thefe, and other confiderations, I do not find myfelf at liberty to decide againif the jurifdidion of the Circuit Court; though, I repeat, that the
jury ought to have been let in to give a verdi&t in favor of
.the Defendant.
WILsoN, 'Juflice. From the proceedings laid before the
Court, it appears clearly to my mind, that the queftion, on
which the caufe muff be decided, is exclufively of Admiralty
j uri(diffion.
CUSHING, 7uflce. It does not appear to me, from any
part of the record, that the Circuit Court had not jurifdidion
on the third Count in the declaration. The papers and depofitions that have been tranfmitted, were, no doubt, produced
upon the trial ; and, I agree, that they ought to be regarded as
a part of the record. But we are not bound to receive for
truth, every thing which they alledge; nor, indeed, can we
give any of their ilatements the validity and force of a fa&;
fince, they only amount to evidence; and it is the peculiar and
exclufive province of the jury to infer fads from the evidence.
That the court had not jurifdidion on thofe Counts, which feem
to refer to a queffion of prize, is no reafon for excluding a jurifdiffion upon the Count, which has no fuch reference. The
contrat might be of a different nature; and the parol teflimony (which does not appear, in any fhape, on the record) might
have fupported it.
THE COURT, being thus equally divided in their opinions,
on the exception to the jurifdidion, djreded the Counfel to
proceed to the difcuffion of
II. The Exceptions to the Record.

For the Plaintif in Error. The exceptions to the record
may be claffed in the following manner :-ift. That there was
VOL. II1.
F
not

CASEs ruled and adjudged in the
1795.

not a court competent to try the cau'e, and render judgmcnt
It appears by the memorandum in the margin of the
record, that only one judge fat on the trial and decifion,
though the Diftri-t Judge was actually prefent; whereas the
act of Congrefs requires two judges to conftitute a Circuit
Court. i F1ol Swift's Edit. f 4. P. 50. 2 '0l Ip 2L 6.
except in certain fpecific cafes, where the latter act empowers
.one judge of the Supreme Court to hold the Circuit Court
alone. But as the general conflitution of the court requires
two judges, and two judges were actually prefent, the reafon
for one only fitting on the caufe, flhould appear on the record to
be fuch as the law allows.-2d. 'hat the action is brought for
money had and received, &c; and if any fuch action would lie,
all who are interefted mufl join in bri'nging it; whereas there
were feveral other joint owners of the privateer's prizes (the
capt,,rs) who are not parties to the fuit. 7ourn. of Ging. 2 ol.
p. '107. In trefpafs this exception mufl be pleaded in abateIntlit ; but in affumpfit it may be taken advantage of at the trial.
Bull. . P. 34' 152. 2 Stra. Sa0. Gilb. L. E. Io6. In the
prefent cafe, the Plaintiffs waved all tort; and whatever promife the law raifed, was a promife to all interefted in the property, or its proceeds ; which included the mariners, as well as
the owners of the privateer. But even if the action could be
maintained by the owners of the privateer only; yet, the third
Count does not ftate the proinife to be to all the owners. A
perfon now dead, was a joint owner ; but the promife is ifated
to be made to 7ohn Cabbot, the furviving partner, and not to
Stherein.

7. & A'. Cabbot, in the life time of .4 &c.-3d. That a variety of papers and depofitions offered in evidence by the Plainti : in error (and forne of which had actually been given in evidencec in behalf of the Defendant in error) together with certain refilutions of Congrefs, and the exemplification of the record in the former fiuit of Carlton and Bingham, had been rejectAd; and if any one of them was improperly rejected, the

judgment helow mut be reverfed. The objection to admit thof, documents, muft reft, either upon the form of authentication, or upon the nature of their contents. Thofe which
had bren officilly depofited& in the Secretary of State's Office,
w re certified in the form prefcrihed by the act of Congrefs;
Z FO/1 p. 43"f 5 ; the record of the ac ion of Carlion and Binghaml, wAs an exemplification under the feal of the proper court;
the Refolutions of Congrefs were formally extracted and certified from the Journals ; and the whole evidently related to
the fubject in controverfy. Mr. Bingham was a mere flakeholder ; and an indemnity, at leaft, fliould have been tendered, before the property was taken from him. But whenever
the queftion of damages arofQ, it was material to fhew that h
had

SUp-R EmE CoURT

of the United States.

35

had acted throughout the bufinefs with fidelity, as a public 1795.
agent, with the approbation of Congrefs, and in conformity to
the truft repofed in him by the Marquis de Bouille, which
did not allow him to pay over the money, till a right to itwas
eftablifhied by deciding the queftion of prize.* He could only,
therefore, defend himfelf by (hewing allthe correfpondence and
proceedings as they occurred. In all mercantile cafes, indeed, the
correfpondence ofan agont is admitted to flew the real complexion
of the tranfadion ; and this is, certainly, the firft inflance, in
which a court has refufed to allow the ads, or ordinances, of
Congrefs to be read in evidence. With refpep to the record
of Carlton verfus Bingham, it might not, perhaps, be regular
to give it in evidence as a bar to the fubfequent a6fior, unlefs
it was pleaded ; but, on the prefent occafion, it was only offered to fhew, that other perfons had fued for the fame thing;
that Mr. Bingham was, in fa&, a mere Itakeoholder ; and that,
therefore, he ought not to deliver the property to any ore till
thelegal ownerihip was effablifhed, nor be compelled to pay
damages, or intereft, for the detention, whoever might be the
owner. A verdid in another caufe may be given in evidence,
though the parties are not the fame, if the defendant was bailiff, or agent, of the party now fuing. Gilb. 35. So a common carrier may maintain trover for the Principal, or owner,
of the goods ; and averdid in that adion may be given in evidence, as conclufive againift the Principal, in an adion brought
by him againit the carrier. 2 Efpinaqfe, 335. Bull. N P. 33.
For the Defendants in Error. It muft be premifed, that the
bill of exceptions, is not fairly drawn, fince it omits to flate the
evidence on behalf of the Plaintiffs below, and, therefore, does
not bring the points in the caufe fully before the court, On a
writ of error, however, fa&s are not to be confitlered ; 3 B!.
Com. 407. and from the flatement in a bill of exceptions the
court will infer nothing. Bull. N. P. 36. 2 7. Rep. 55. 125.
But to proceed to the exceptions in their order.
ijf. Exception. The court was conifituted, agreeably to
the provifions of the ads of Congrefs. It is flated on the record that the Difirid Judge did not fit in the caufe ; whether
he was interefted, or not, is a fa& ; and, from his not fitting,
the court will prefume that he was interetfld. i Stra. 129.
The queftion might, perhaps, have been tried by a monition ifluing
to Mr. Bingham, fron tie Admiralty of vIartin'7 ,' on which -a decree
would be binding upon all the world. See the argument of Sir 1r1/hiav?
Scott,
in 3 T. Rep. 3e9 ; and yztdge RiXe/'j opinion; p. 346. Beftdes, it apopears, that the Arret of the JFrench government, authoriling the Fienc5
courts ofAdmiralty, to -try and determine captures made by 4merican ,
was promulged immediately after the prize had been conligned to Mr.
B3ingham's care.
7ourn. Cong. 5 ["i. P 449. 450.

36,
1795.

k

CASEs

ruled and adjudged in the

[BY T-14E COURT. This exception need not be farther anfwered. We are perfedly clear in the opinion, that, although
ihe Difiri& Judge was on the bench, yet, if he did not fit in
the caufe, he was abfent in contemplation of law; and that the
cafe otherwife comes within the provifions of the ads of Congrefs.]
2d. Exception. It cannot be made a queftion on this record,
that all the proper Plaintiffs were not joined in the a~tion
fince the jury have found the 4Fuinpfit as it was laid in the declaration. Befides, there is nothing to fhew, that there were
any other parties; the owners and captors might have
been the fame ; or the owners, by a contrad with their mariniers (which could not be affe&ed by the prize refolutions of
Congrefs) might h~ave entitled themfelves to the whole of the
prizes. The flatement of the fad on the motion for a new
trial, is merely the allegation of the interefted party, contradiced by the verdid, and the rejedion of the motion.
The court below was right in rejed.ing the
3 d. Exception.
evidence offered by the Plaintiff in error. That the papers were
offered en maje, was his fault ; and even if fome of them fhould
.he deemed good evidence, all muft be admitted, or none. But
Mr. .Binghainsown letters to Congrefs, and the correfpond.
ence with his counfel, could not be evidence, ,for he was a
party.

The Lfqaqtis de BEouille's certificate, which has been

called an order, is nothing more than a certificate that he had
previoufly given the order to which it refers, and it had been
given inevidence by the Plaintiffs. But there is no proof that
even this certificate is the aa of the Marquis de Bouille; for'
the Secretary o.f State only certifies, that the original of the
pffice copy is or his files ; and there is no evidence that the original was figned by the Marquis. Being, hoWever, merely
the flatement of a pre-exifling fad, and not the exemplification of a record, certified by a regular officer, it flhould be
proved, like every other fact, in the courfe of a jWdigial enqui.
ry, by the oath of a competent witnefs : the bare certificate of
the Mqarqtis de Boqille cannot be allowed as proof of a fad,
any more than the certificate of any other refpedable individual. Yet, admitting that the Marquis figned the certificate,
and that the certificate is competent evidence of the fad-, it
was enough tojuftify the rejection, that it could have no legal
effed to prevent the Plaintiffs belo w from recoverin ; for, the
AMarquisde Boujiles order ierely authorifed a fate of the p'rize
goods, which the'Plaintiffs never ir'peached ; but, on the contrary, p'eftiming tie fale tobe law)ful, ihey brought'an adion
of aqffnpfit, .inftead of' an adion of t refpa(s, or trover.
Fough he might order a fale, thc i arquis could have no power

SUPREME COURT

of the United States.

to adjudge who fhould enjoy the benefit, nor to compel Mr. 1795.
Bingham to retain the money from its real owners. Befides, t.P-%J
it does not appear that the property came into Mr. Bingham's
hands, in confequence of the a& of the Marquis de Bouille,
nor that the Marquis ever had poffeffion of it. The Marquis
direds the proceeds to be retained, liable to the order of Con"
grefs : but this could give no jurifdi&ion to Congrefs upon the
fubjedt; and Congrefs had, of itfelf, no right to decide to
whom payment fhodild he made. The a& of the Marquis is,
therefore, merely void ; and leaves the queftion, as to Mr.
Bingham, precifely where it ftood, before the order was
written.
The refolutions of Congrefs were, alfo, an improper kind of
evidence to be admitted on the iffue between the parties ; particularly after Congrefs had become interefted by promifing indemnification. They were not in the nature of a law, or rule
of conduct, commanding any particular act to be done by Mr.
Bingham; they were framed fubfequent to his act ; and tho'
they appeared, ex poftfae7o, as to the fale of the prize goods, they
neither commanded that fale, nor ordered, or approved, the detention of the proceeds, which alone conftitutes the ground of
the prefent demand*. But even if Congrefs had undertaken
to iffue fuch orders, their authority to do fo might reafonably
he queftioned. That body had power to controul the operations of war ; and, as an incident of war, might lawfully decide, conformably to its appellate jurifdiction, the queftion of
prize, or no prize. But here was no original fuit, no procefs
pending, no parties before Congrefs, in relation to that point-,
and in relation to the private controverfy between the captors
and their agent, Congrefs poffeffed no authority either to legiflate, or adjudicate. Suppofing, however, for a moment, that
they had authority to decide, they have not exercifed it; they
have barely expreffed an opinion ; and an the opinion of any
man, or affemblage of men, be given in evidence ? The court
had a right to j udge, not only whether the evidence comes from
a proper fource, but, alfo, whether it applied to the fact in iffue : for, even a deed is not evidence unlefs it has fome relation
to the matter in difpute. And if the refolutions of Congrefs were only offered in mitigation of damages, the objection
remained, If not proper on the main queftion, they were not
proper
7uflice. Does not the fibfrequent approbation of Con'
PAITrSOr,
grefs amount to the fame thing as if they had iffued a precedent order ?
Dex'ter. In fome cafes that principle operates. But Congrefs had not
competent authority to prote& Mr. Bingham in the prefent inftance, either
by iffuing a previous order, or by expreffing a lubfequent approbation.
If an a&, originally wrong, gave a party the right to recover damages'
iio rcfolution of Congrefs could, retrofpe&ively, affeft that right.

3g

1795.

1y

CAsEs

ruled and adjudged in the

proper on any queftion, in the caufe; and, on the merits it
may be remarked, that although no intere6 fhould be charged,
where money is retained by a party, upon any legal compulfion,
or with the confent of the claiments, there was no reftraint impofed upon Mr. Bingham by the Marquis de Bouille's order,
nor is any confent pretended.
As to the record of the action of trover, Carlton v. l3;ngham, it was not pleaded: and, therefore, could not be a bar
to the prefent fuit. Neither could it be evidence ; for, a verdict in trover, is not evidence in ajfumpfit. This appears from
the very nature of the actions; the former depending on the
proof of a wrong~il act land the latter upon a contract exprefs,
or implied. The action of trover failed, becaufe the fale of
the goods was not proved to be unlawful, or tortious.. 4 Bac.
Abr. 6o. I. 3 Mod. 166. Fin, Abr. tit. " Evidence;" 68. 4

,Vin. Atbr. 23. pl. 3t.

. For the Plaintif in Error, in reply. i. It is objected, that
the bill of exceptions does not ftate the evidence given on the
trial for the Plaintiffs below. But it does not appear, that they
gave any evidence more than what the record exhibits. The ftatute lays, that the party aggrieved fhall propofe his exceptions
to the opinion of the court ; but there is, furely, no occafion
to infert any part of the evidence, which is not material to the
point of exception. 2 Inil. 427.
[By THE COURT. It is exceedingly clear, that the bill of
exceptions is conclufive upon this Court. We cannot prefume,
or fufpect, that any material part of the evidence is omitted.
On this objection, therefore, nothing now need be added*.]
2. It is obje&ed, that the papers from the office of the Secretary of State, were not proper evidence ; and that though fome
were good, they could not be received, as the whole were offered
en mae. The A& of Congrefs, however, (I 5 th Sept. 1789)
makes copies under the official feal of the Secretary as valid in
proof as the originals ; and it is no reafon for reje&ing the
papers, when offired by the Defendant, that they, or A part of
them, had been previoufly given in evidence by the Plaintiffs.
The Court, too, might have feparated thofe that were evidence
from the reft, As to the contents of the papers : The letters
of Mr. Bingham were material to fhew that he acted as the
public Agent of Congrefs ; that, as fuch, he had taken depofitions and tranfmitted the (hip's papers, and that he had accounted to Congrefs for the property. The correfpondence
with his counfel, merely (hews, that his effe6ts had been attached
* CusHTr-, Y'ufli~e, did not feem to coinclde in this opinion, but the
other three Ju.dges were dccidcd.

SUPREME

COURT of the United States.

tached on aocount of this demand ; and, under particular cir- 1795.
cumflances, the party's own ads are evidence in his favour,
12 in. Abr. 24. P. 34, 35. 2 Eq. Abr. 409. The Marquis de
Bouille's order, given in evidence by the Plaintiffs, was only a
tranflation, while the French original, offered by the Defendant, was rejeded. The certificate of a Chief Executive Magiftrate, is good evidence without an oath. 3 B1. Com. 333.
The certificate would prove, that the caufe was entirely of Admiralty jurifdidion, and whether the certificate was ex pojl
fadto, or not, the Jury ought to decide. The i 7 th article of the
FrenchTreaty relates to captures from Enemies ; but this was a
capture from a Neutral ; fo the Governor had a right to interfere. The Refolutions of Congrefs are fated in the Bill of
Exceptions to be concerning the fubjed matter of the caufe ;
and it muft be prefumed that the Refolutions were fufficiently
proved. The Record of Carltonverfus Bingham, (when Carlton fued as Bailiff to the owners) ought certainly to have been
admitted in mitigation of damages, as it lhews that Mr. Bingham could not have paid the money with fafety to the prefent,
claimants, till the queftion of prize was determined. 4 Co. 94. b.
The Judges, after fome advifement, delivered their opinions,
feriatim.
PATTERSON, yuflice. I am clearly of opinion, that the
certificate of the Marquis de Bouille, regiftered in the Admiralty of Martinique, ought to have been admitted as evidence
upon the trial of this caufe. He was Governor of the Ifland,
poffefling a high executive and fuperintending contioul ; and
we muft prefume, that he adled, on this occafion, with legitimate authority.
Thofe letters which were written to Congrefs by Mr. Bingham, at the time of the tranfa&ion, hould, likewife, in my opinion, have been fubmitted to the Jury. Onthe arrival of the
captured vcffel, the Governor might have awarded abfolute reflitution : but, chufing to adopt a middle courfe, he directed
the cargo to be fold, and the proceeds to remain in the hands of
Mr. Bingham, as the Agent of Congrefs, till Congrefs (hould
inftru& him how to a&. In the chara&er of a public agent,
therefore, Mr. Bingham received the property; and his cotemporaneous correfpondence on the fubjed, in that charader, with
the 4merican government, was, certainly, proper evidence, to
(hew the original nature and complexion of the fads in controverfy. I have more doubts on the admiffibility of the other
letters referred to in the Bill of Exceptions ; but, ia relation
to them, it is unneceffary to give a decided opinion. With refped to the Refolutions of Congrefs, two queftions
may be propofed, in order to determine, whether they ought
to have been admitted as evidence : ,x. Had Congrefs.authority

40

1795.
'.ev-.i

CASES

ruled and adjudged in the

to pafs fuch Refolutions ? and !. Did the Refolutions relate to
the fubje& of the controverfy ? I have lately had occafion, in
the cafe of Doane verfis Penhal!ow, to exprefs my fentiments

at large on the a.thority of Congrefs (of which, in its application to the prefent obje&, I do not entertain the flighteft.doubt)
And no man of common candour can hetitate, for a moment, to
pronounce, that the Refolutions have an immediate and neceffary connecfion with the merits of the caufe. They ought,
then, to have been admitted ; but what fhould be their force
-and operation, is another point, not, at prefent, before the
Court.
I am, alfo, of opinion, that it was improper to reject the De-

pofitions, which Mr. Bingbam had taken, in his public, official,
character, to afeertain the circumftances of the capture, and the
property of the veffel and cargo, at the time the fuppofed prize
was carried into Martinique.
IRE DELL, )'uJlice. It appears fatisfactorilyto me, that ma-

ny of the documents offered in evidence, have been improperly
rejected. From an infpectionofall the papers, which are attached to the Record, the nature of the difpute may be eafily afcertained. The Plaintiffs alledge that Mr. Bingkami received,
on their account, as their agent, property which had been captured by them as prize ; and that, whether the capture was
lawful, or not, he was bound to account to them, though they
might be refponfible to the original owners, if any wrong had
been committed. To this charze, Mr. Bingkam anfwers, that
he never was the Agent of the Plaitiffs, but a Public Agent
and that he did not receive the property from them on their account; but from the Marquis de Bouille, on account of the
true owners. Admitting either of thefe pofitions, a direct and
certain confequence will infue. If the Plaintiffs are right, the
confequence is, that Mr. Binghan ought to furrender the prize
property, or account for its proceeds, to them ; and though they,
as captors, may be fued by the neutral claimants, the exiflence
of a neutral claim will not juftify his refufal fo to furrender, or
account. But, if the Defendant is right, the confequence is,
that he ought not to deliver up the property to the Plaintiffs until it has been afcertained that the capture was lawful, which
muft be done through the medium of a Prize Court, not by a
Judgment in a Court of common law. From this view of the
controverfV, therefore, it muff be of great moment that Mr.
Binghan flould have an opportunity to fhew, that he had acted, throughout the bufinefs, as the Public Agent of the United
States;
' See the Cafe referred to, pofl.I have not thought it material to
preferve the order of time, in which the Cafes uccurred, any furthei thall

ty delignating the refpe&ive Terms.

SUPROME Couvk'

of the United States.

States ; and that his communications to Congrefs were open, 1795,
fair, and fiiithful. If, indeed, he'had given parol teflimony on k ,4
thefe points, his opponents might have called for the records of
the appointment and correfpondence, as affordinp_ higher proof.
I am, therefore, of opinion, that Mr. Bingham's official letters,
(fome of which were written before any difpute exifted, or
could reafonably be anticipated) ought not to have been rejected.
The Refolutions of Congrefs, likewife, were proper evidence ;--not, indeed, to prove, that the Plaintiffs were not entitled to the money in queftion, but to prove that the Defendant
was recognized in the tranfaction as the Agent of Congrefs.
The Refoluticns are not to be confidered as the mere expreffion
of a Congrefflonal opinion, but as an acknowledgment that Mr
Bingham was a public agent, and that the public, as his principal, was accountable for the money.
The certificate of the Marquis te Bouille, whether regard.
ed as an original order, or as the evidence of a parol order,
previoufly given, ought to have been laid before thd jury. The
Marquis adted officially, as Governor and Commander in
Chief; and we muff prefume, that he exercifed a lawful authority, in a lawful manner.
Under thefe circumftances it only remains- to confider, what
courfe fhould be purfued by the Court, in order to give the
Defendant' the benefit of a trial, upon a full view of his legal
proofs. I think, for that purpofe, that a Venire Faciasde novo
ought to iffue. For, although a Court of common law has no
jurifdidion of the queftion of prize ; yet, whether it is neceffary in the prefent cafe to determine that queftion, muft depend
upon the fads, which are eftablifhed at the trial. On a Count
for money had and received, &e. the Court below has, prima
facie, jurifdiction; and if the jury fhall think Mr. Bingham
was merely the agent of the Plaintiffs, the validity of the capture, as prize, can form no in2gredient in deciding the iffue. If,
on the contrary, the jury fhlla think Mr. Bingham acted as a
public agent, theirverdi& muff be'in his favour ; as he was
bound to keep the property for the real owners ; and the captors can never lhew that they are the real owners, until the
veffel and cargo have been condemned as prize, by a competent tribunal. The captors may then proceed againif Mr.
Bingham in a Court of Admiralty, whofe decree ofcondemnation, operating againif all the world, would entitle the captors
to receive the money, and juftify Mr. Bingham, or Congrefs,
in paying it.
. WILSON, Juflice. In feveral inflances, I concur in the
fentiments, that have been delivered by the Judges, who have
preceded me ; but, I think, it is unneceflhry to fpecify the particulars
G
VOL. III.

CAsEs' ruled and adjudged in the

42
i795.

ticulars, or to amplify the reafons, fince I continue clearly ijN
my opinion on the point, which was feparately argued; that this
caufe is exclufively of Admiralty jurifdicqion. On that ground
i chufe entirely to reft the'judgment that I give : but it leads
inevitably, alfo, to another conclufion, that, the Court not having jurifdi&ion a enire Facias de novo (which, in effea, direds the exerciie of jurifdidion) ought -not to iffue. I am1
therefore, for pronouncing, fimply, a judgment of reverfal.
PATE1RSON, 77tflice. I cannot agree ,to fend a VYenire Facias de tovo to a Court, which, in mry opinion, has no jurifdiction to try, or to decide, the caufe.
C SHING, uqlice. I (ihall give no opinion upon the quef..
tion of affirming, or reverfing, the Judgment of the Court below. My brethren think there is error in the proceedings;
and they are right to redlify it. On the queftion, however,
of awarding a Yen ire Facias de novo, I agree with Judge In EDE1L But, as the Court are equally divided, the Writ cannot
iffue,
Judgment reverfed ; but no writ of
was awarded.

eniee Faciasdi novo

'Vhe LUN1T.11) STATES ve'fus Judge LAw~tNtg,

MOTION was made by the Attorney Genzral of the
United States (Bradford) for a Rule to (hew caufe why
a Mandamus fhould not be direded to J014N LAWRENCE,
Judge of the Diftri6t of New-York, in order to compel him to
iflue a warrant, for apprehending Captain Barre, commander
of .the frigate Le Perdrix, belonging to the French Republic,
he cafe was this :A-Captain Bari'e, foon after the difperfidn
of a French convoy on the Aenerican coaPr, voluntarily abandoned his fhip, and became a refident in NewY~ork The ViceConful of the French Republic, thereupon, made a demand, in
writing, that JudgQ Lawrence would iffue a warrant to apprehcnd Captain Barre, as a defertcr from Le Perdrix, by virtue
,

