SUPREME

COUkT'Of the United States.

x796.
BY THE COURT. All and fingular the premifesbeingfeen
by the court here and fully underflood, and mature deliberation
had thereon, becaufe it appears to the court now here, that in
the record and procefs aforefaid, and alfo in the rendition of the
judgment aforefaid, upon the demurrer to the rejoinder of the
Defendants in error, to the replication of the fecond plea, it is
manifeffly erred, it is confidered that the f-aid judgment for
thofe errors and others in the record and procefs aforefaid, be
revoked and annulled, and altogether held for nought, and it
is further confidered by the court here, that the, Plaintiff in
error recover againfi the Defendants, two thoufand nine hundred and feventy-fix pounds, eleven fhillings and fix-pence,
good Britijh money, c mmonly called flerling money, his debt
aforefaid, and his cofis by him about his fuit .in this behalf expended, and the (aid Defendants, in mercy, &c. But this
judgment is to be difcharged by the payment of the fum of 596
dollars, and intereft thereon to be computed after the rate of
five per cent per annum, from the 7 th day of July, 1782, till
payment, befides the cofts, and by the payment of fuch damages as lhall be awarded to the Plaintiff in error, on a writ of
enquiry to be iffued by the Circuit Court of Firginia, to afcertain the fum really due to the Plaintiff in error, exclufiveJy of the (aid fum of 596 dollars, which was found to be due to
the Plaintiff in error, upon the trial in the laid Circuit Court,
on the iffue joined upon the Defendant's plea of payment, at
a time when the judgment of the (aid Circuit Court on the faid'
demurrer was unreverfed and in full force and vigor, and for
the execution of the judgment of the court, the caufe aforefaid
is remanded to the faid Circuit Cotirt of Virginia.
JUDGMENT reverfed.

GEYER,et al. verfus MICHEL, et al. and the fhip
DEN ONZEKERE1.

T

HIS was a Writ of Error to the Circuit Court, for the

Diftri&. of South Carolina;and, on the return of the record, the following pleadings appeared:

286
xW6.

CASES ruled and adjudged in the

On the 2d of February,

1795, A L1BFL

was filed by the

Plaintiffs in error, fdating, That the fhip Den Onzekeren and
her cargo, on the i6th of November, 1794., were, and ever fince
have been, the property of Spooner and Springer, and other citizens of the United Netherlands, owners and freighters of the
fame: That peace and amity fubfifted between the United States
and the United Netherlands, and that a treaty between the two
powers, was concluded on the 8th of Ociober, 1782, which is in
'full force :'That the Den Onzekeren failed with her cargo from
Demarara,in the Wji/ Indies, bound to Middleburg, in Hol-

land, and in the courfe of her voyage on the r6:h of November,
1794, was captured on the high feas, in lat. 27, N. and long.
63, W. by a French armed fhip, called the Citizens of Marfeiles, commanded by Captain Viaor Chabert: T'hat the faid
armed fhip pretended to be called the Citizen of Marfeilles, was
fitted out, armed and equippedfor war, in the port of Philadelphia, in the United States, contrary to the laws of nations, &c.
thatIhewent tofea, not having a legal commiffion to cruize;. and

that at the time of capturing the faid fhip Den Onzekeren,
fhe was bound to Cayeine, to obtain a commitfion to cruize
againfl the enemies of the French Republic: That the Citizen of Marfeilles was armed, equipped, andfitted out for war
at Phiadelphia, orfome otherplace in the river or bay of Delaware, in Pennfylvania, New 7erfey or Delaware, contra-

ry to the laws of neutrality, &c. That fhe was armed, equiped,
and fitted out for war While in Philadelphia, with i2guns,
and military jiores equal to that force; but that after quitting

the faid port, to wit, in the river of Delaware, Within' the jurifdidion of the United States, her force was added to, and
augmented by opening certain other port holes, and mounting
certain other cannon, to wit, 16 guns, which the had concealed in her hold, and brought, or procured to be brought from
the port of Philadelphia; and by providing herfelf with other
military ftores, contrary to the laws of neutrality, &c : That the
Captain, officers, and crew of the faid (hip, Citizen of Marfeilles,
could not legally have any commiflion power or authority
from any Prince or State, for a veffel fitted out , armed
and equipped for war, in the United States; nor for a veffel
whofe force had been augmented in the United States, by adding to the number oti fize of her guns, or by addition thereto
of any equipment folely applicable to war, much lefs could
they hive authority to carry and detain her prizes in the ports
of the United States.: That the faid Fitaor Chabert, pretends to have a lawful commiffion from the French Republic, which.the Libellants pray he may be obliged to (hew
and file; but which faid pretended commiffion, (if any there be)
having been ifued to a vefliel, then adually being fitted, arm-

Cd

SUPREME COURT

of the United States.

ed or equipped as aforefaid, or Whofe force had been augment- 1796.
ed in the United States, is null and void: That the whole, 1
part, or feveral of the crew of the Citizen of Mafeilles, confifted of American citizens, or inhabitants, enlifted and fhipped in the United Stares: That if the faid armed fhip had been
legally commiflioned previous to her entering the port of Philadelphia, the fubfequent augmentation of her force in the United States, rendered her commiffion null and void, to all intents and purpofes,: And that the courts of the United States
are bound to reftore the prizes made by a veffel, whofe force
has been augmented within the neutral limits thereof. The
libel, therefore, concudes, by praying reftitution and damages.
On the 4 th of March, 1795, a CLAIM, fworn to in open
court, was filed by 7ohn Z"ichel, prize mafter of the (aid
flip Den Onzekeren, and her cargo, ftiling himfelf a native
Frenchman, and citizen of the French Republic, in behalf of
himfelf, Antonie Francois Planche, a native Frenchman, now
refident at Philadelphia,Owner of the private armed veffel the
Citizen of Marfeilles; and in behalf of the officers, mariners,
and crew, or perfons interefted in the faid veffel of war, being
all French citizens. After protefting that the faid libel is
vexatious, and not good and fufficient in law, the claim proceeds to ftate, That he, the (aid Yohn Michel, the (aid . F.
Planche, and the officers and crew, and perfons intereffed in
the (aid fhip Citizen of 4arfeilles, and her faid prize, are all
French citize'ns: That the (aid fhip Citizen of Marfi'illes, is
a French veffel, was not originally armed and equipped, or
fitted for war at Philadelphia,or any other port or place of the
United States, but fhe was fitted, armed, or equipped for war
at St. Domingo, and was duly commiffioned for war, Under
the authority of the French Republic, by Monge, Minifter of
the Marine Department, in France, by a commiffion iffued
at the Cape, as appears by a certified copy of the commiffion,

on the
of the faid Planche, dated at
in the year of our Lord one thoufand
day of
filed agreeably to the demand of
feven hundred and
the Libellant: And that the capture was made in open war, on
the high feas, and without the neutral lirniits of the United
States. To the claim was added, a plea of the 17 th article of
the Treaty of Amity and Commerce, between the UnIted States
and France, in bar to the libel ; and a prayer that the libel
be dif-niffed with cofts and damages.
Tbe Libellant filed A REPLICATION, in which, after the
ufual falvos and proteflations, it was frated, that the force of the
fhip Citizen of Mivfeilles, was increafed and augmented within the neutral limits of the United States, to wit, in the port of
Philadelphia, and in the bay and river Delaware, by adding to
the

288

CAsEs ruled arid adjudged in the

.1796. the number of her guns, and by additions thereto of certain
gun carriages, and other equipments, folely applicable to war ;
.
by preparing for opening, and a&ually opening, certain portholes on her main deck, abaft the main chains, and alfo opening
other port-holes in her quarter deck, and adding to the number
of her gun-carriages, and furniture and tackle for gun-carriages, in order to the mounting of other, and a greater number, of guns than (he had mounted at the time of her arrival in
the United States, or in the port of Philadelphia: That the
crew of the faid armed fhip was not wholly Frenchmen, as flated in the anfwer, but was compofed partly of native Americans,
partly of Engliflmen, Iribhmen and Scotchmen, and other citizens of the United States : That the faid pretended commiflion,
a copy of which is exhibited, faid to be given by
Zifonge, Minif{er of Marine of the French Republic, but which
appears blank as tq its date, was not duly iffued at St. Doiningo, to the faid A. F. Planche, but was illegally and improperly
delivered and obtained in the United States, on condition of his,
the faid A. F. Planche, or the faid FiorGhabert, repairing to
frme part of .the French Republic to perfe&t the fame : That
the pretended commiffion marked B, pretended to be iffued by
Liger Felicite Sonthonax, and pretended to be dated the 3 oth of
September, 1793, if ever it was- really iffued, is void and of
none effe t, the National Aflembly of the French Republic
having annulled all afts' and authorizations given by the faid
Santhonax . And that, by the Refpondent's oikn flhewing, it
appears by a certificate figned Petry, at Philadelphia,the 27 th
of JVendemaire, 3 d year of the French Republic, (i8th Oc8oher
1795) that on a change of the commander of the faid fhip, the
faid Pikor Chabert is exprefsly required to repair to fome port
of the Republic, for the purpofe of perfeting the faid blank
commiffion firft mentioned. The Libellant concluded with a
demurrer to the plea of the 17 th article of.the treaty of amity
and commerce between the United States and France, in bar;
and repeats the prayer of the Libel for reftitution.
On the above pleadings a term probatory was obtained, feveral witneffes were examined at Gharleflon, and a commiffior
iffued to certain commilmioners in Philadelphia to examine
#trwitneffes. The commilfion being executed and returntWthe caufe was argued, and the Difri& Judge, on the ! 7 th
of April 1795, by his final fentence, decreed reftitution of the
flip Don Onzekeren and her cargo, with cofts; but without
damages, on the ground of augmentation of force onlyS',-

From

. The decree of the DfIri& Judge, pronounced in the cafe of Moodie
et alverfus the Betfy, Cathcart et al. (on a libel for "eflitutiot, of a prize,
owned by BritJh fubjets, and captured by the fame privatcer) proceeded

United States.

SUPREME COURT of the

289

From this decree an appeal was interpofed, and a writ of 1796.
error was 'iffted out of, and returnable to, the Circuit Court, 'koyJ
which
upon the fame fsts, and, ofcourfe, decided the cafe reported. I have
been favored with a copy of that decree, and, I prefume, the infertion
In juffice to the Judge,
ofit here, wvill.be acceptable to the profeflion.
however, it is proper to premife, thlat new evidence was gi.en to the CircuiL Court, who reverfed his decree.
s, Dii,,5t'7di.: Tile caufe before the" court, 'and in which I am
E
now about to pronounce my decree, 'is a caufe of confiderable importance, as well With rcfpt_, to-the cicunianes of the ca!e, as the value.
of the propcrty. It will not be ncceiiary for me to recite at length-the
whole of the piadings, and arguments that has'e been adduiced. The
fac&s ftated in the Libel, are partly admitted, and partly denied. The
capture of the Betty Cahcoa', on the high feas, out of the jurifdictional limits of the United States, and the propertyof the veltel and
cargo as b-longing to Brityh fubjes, are 'admitted ol a)l .hands. 'Tis
admitted alfo, that at. the time 'of the. arrival of tile Citizen of Majfeilles,
in Philadelphia, the N as an, arned fliip,. atsd had a commiffliot to 'cruize
againif tie enemies of F'ance..i An exception was taken to th'e.comrnif:. '.
"
floot on two grou:.ds- "
e. That all the commifl ons iffued. bySanthonax'and Pol|yre, had
"
•
.. ,
.
.
.,
,been recalled.%'. .
2. That the ce'tificate from"; Mr. Pesry the conful at :Philadelphia,
was only con dit ional .
The only points,, then, which it is neceffary for me tjo inveftigate, are
t. Wlctlhr thelfrec'of this xeffel was increafcd and augmented with-.
in the limits of the, United States.
wof
neutral.ity and
2. Whether fuch, increafe is a breach of~the .a.I
nations: and

,

•

-

'

'

3. What lslreqiyjred by the laws of neutrality in fuch cafes, orwhe'titr the t7th article ofthe Trecity :la a futpenfion thereofas to.the United States.
On the ill part, viz..whether'tise force of the Citizen of Marf eillejs
was encreaed.andaugmentedwithi the United States. A,number of witneffes have been exanmined, a'nd as.vcriery ofother evidences adduced. The
proofs in this caufe have heen very properly divided by one of the Counel, into four clafFes. or fets. I.xwill, th.erefore, confider them in that
orderalo.

'

.*

'.

The proofs which relate to.the teffel at Cape Francois,, before fihe
failed for Philadel phila
2. Thofe which relate to her whirft at Philadelphia.
3. Thofe after flie eft tihe city7 and previous to her going to fea.
4. Thofe immediately after ihe got to fea.
To the firit point, Ir. Boiflean only fpeaks of her as an armed veffel
generally, t the Month of Juiw, 1793, but does not fpecify any partic0lars.
W. Charrie, wihe was on 1,oard two days, fabsout this period, fpeaks
of her as an armed veffel, with ten ports on each ide, and guns in them,
and alfo as having guns in ier hold-bit no particular number. Thete
are the only witnefd'es to this, poitt.....
If we proceed now.'to.her appearance at Philadelplhia, we find a contrariety of evidence.
. General Stewart, in. his letter to the Colleftor 3d
ofSeptember 17941
mentions her as having.at her arim/ its. nine and.to fix pounders ; but
he does not fa
i.whether they were mounted or not. He fays flie will.
only mount sz guns at going'dut, and cari'y the others in her hold'. In
l
his letter to the Secretary at War, dated the J411h Oftober. !794,.he
refers

VOL. III.

P p

290

CASES

ruledand adjudged in thd

1796.. 'which Fat At Golui)zbia, 6t' the I2th of'May, 1795. '.On the re,.,y%) turn of the record, a commtffion Was iffued to cetuain coinmifa
fioners
refers to'the above, and *alto fates the differetit teports ofMr. Milnor,
one ofthe deputy infpeftors of the port, to him. The firft, on the 3oth
autumn) with 16
.of Scpteher 1193. H, adds, that the fhip arrited laft
nine and To tix pounders, But. Will Ontly moIi 112 guns, which flie
bro,gla in thattitua.tion-ihe others (lie is to catry in her hold, On the
14th of Otober, General Stewart vilited her again, and 'hys liefinds
no addition to the armaisent', fhe was reported. wnd had, on.her arrival,
Viz. to fix poumders on her main deck, and. 2on her quarter deck, and
thold.
No new ports had been opened inee
the reft of the gons in the
her arrival. General Stewartt does not fay;"who reported her fhis, oil
her arrival. It could not be Mr. Milnor, for he, on the 14h of Otober,
iII his reports, f'ay , ''.Having.ckamnined, the fhill. called the.Gifizen of
and
.M airfeil es, ott her arrival in port, 1 a sin ex .ined hdr this dty,
-fina no addition to her armamcnr,'&ec. Tlie fitne mtm her ofguns at emen,tioned, that fhe had on heir arrix al. His other certificate which appears
from General Stevart's leitter to-he dvted on. the 3 th of Sept'emhber,
"1793, 'and:;iile to hirh- of tie then aonl arjament of the lhip that
the Citi-boacdd the 'ivat~e flhip
day, the day of her arrival-faysz.enoWMar4 ll'es, coirianded 'y PlanChe,, tiX poIttders mounted and
n." By-comparin
..
e-, spfri'rttr--16,
.it
other -warlik
3 Pot not Ited,
'the dates'and extractts in this ehiait, if'.
tiniry appcars there is fome
miftake aiongft the officers atthti
port. 'Mr. Mitlar',; oh lle36fhoi: September, 1793, the'day.fte airivel,
dioardelilter,1 anod ftays';fhe had t z lix
pbundelt's ,,osn, Iand 3 not ,twhune:rI
. alfo 'iiittd h*irn-.6 the i4th of
Ofober , 1794, and found no addition to her ati a nl ,'i'
ii f Tfarme num" ....
- -,.
o F gu in beini m o u n ted . .
b e t'
".
This evlidence from the r6port of th'e officers of th jonrt, elearl,
pro,?ekt
itthe hip, on. her arrival, lad wtiy 2 t!''ssInounted-iow
ticanv 0(he rs:there were otmboard Oat cnrimted; mufllie'left to the offiCers to fettle, as I caunot do it froAi the evidence addocei.I. M'r.
Hnrrilfhu hlio fixed to in 'on her maii'd-ck, "and ' or 4 On her quarter.ideck. Michael Willianms fays, Whsehad hut S of-afide oil her
"main deck, and a on her'quai'ter
deck.. Jol'n Grdifion, 'whofailed in
the vefel from the' Gapes'tt Phi-ladelphia, Rhys fhe had1on1', 5 of afid.
on the main deck, and t oif.each lide on the -tiuarter deck, And thIait
there were no more port holes open than gutis.
.
- Ciptain. Montgomery, of the Reven tie Cttiel', )hI "fsw'tier at' a diftance at her firft arrival, fuppof. I her to have- s ports'of afide, bt
whether all real, or oine painted, lie could not iy.'
Frot the whole, ofthis evidence, then, it clearly'appears to me, that
tie (hip at het art ival, had ott, 1V a unotnted,
ins
atid ,sae in her hold.
if w e now advert to the nun er of'i rfswhich 'were op n either at her
arr cal, or at her leating the poetof Philade, ohia { .w e 'fin d fhe had
tile. fatie number as of~gunis
ounte..
All thd evidences who wete
near l
Cwcar politiv',e-y, th.t there were n,,eabtft the main chdirs-though feveral lay the ports were framed within, bitttplanked over on
the outfide. Harrifoni's evidence, is iotICluiflve-becaufe he nsentions
his application to the gqycriior f5r periflion to rpein
w,ne Port whi~h
was r rrfed;-and Ca'irais Chabeti's reply th-at lie did not wifll to go
contrary to the laws of the country, aid that as h6. had carpenters of
his oi'ii"hecoul open-ttei elfewhere, and'at anothe,"lait,
is fully
ftflicient to fix this point.
...
The 3d. clafs of evidence, is fuch as relates' to °the .vll'l
after her
leaving the city, and previous to her .ro.!eed ing tis rea.
And from a- careful tevifioiun of. this it does appear, that a osi tober ;of
ports were openied and gurs niounted it- rhe i;ver De/a-ware. Quits fwears
,

.

pdhtieCly

SUPREME COURT of'-the

United States.

fionets at Philadelphia,-to examine witneffes in the caufe, and
the hearing was adjourned to the next Circuit Court, which
fat
pofitively to 74. Powel fays, there were 3 carpenters at work to cut
the ports through, and fit them-himfclf, Stevenfon and another ; and
It could not therefore take more
that each took one for a day's work.
than five days to effeft this, and from tilelatter end of Oaober to the
4 th of November, there was fuflicicnt time to compleat it.
The evidence of thefe two witneffes has been impeached !itfeveral
particulars, but it really appears to me, that there arc fo many proofs
and circunmflances fiated, that corroborate their teflimony to mofi of the
points they fpcak of, that there is not fufficient ground for me to repel
the evidence they have given in toto
The witneffes who prove the increafe of force in the river, are Quin,
who fays fie mounted 28 gu'ns-Captain Montgomery fays 26 or 28.Mr. Kevan fiqys, a %Ahole tier f~re and aft. All then fpeak of the veffel
down the river, an befote the went to fea.
The 4 th and laji clafs, is that relative .to her, immediately after her
going to fea.
One of the counfel for the claimant obje&ed to the teftimony of all the
witnefles on board the prize, as bring interefled and of courfe inconipetent, but he could tiot be ferious in this, becaufe tle conifant uniform
pra&ice of the civil law courts has been to admit fuch evidence to certain points-In Goll/eanea Ywuidica page t35 is the famous cafe fo often
refor ted to:;as fixing the laa'. In this cafe, it is exprrffly laid down, that
or condemn, muft, in tle firf inflance, eome from
the evidenceto acpuit
,the vegel taken, the perfolps on board, and the examination on oath of the
majier and other ogres.
The evidence they all give is reducible to two points,
if. The apperance and force of the fh/ip both as to guns and men.
2d. The intrlligence obtained fron the:crew. As to the laft. I think
little attention flhould be paid to the chit chlat on board one of iliefe
-privateers, and very frequently the witpefFes don't underftand the language they hear fpoken, and report frorm fecomd hand : but they certainly are competeat witneffes as to the tt1mbcr ofguns and crew that %vere
'on board at the time of the capture - ard in this they all agrer, that fie
mounted 28 guns, wheu the took the Den Onzekeren, out of which the
took' two guns to make 30, and feveral of them fav, the could mount
34 guns, having ports cut for that number.
Captain Raymon Sanchez Captain of the brig Dichofo, taken on the 6th
of November, two days af:cr the veffel left the Delaware, fays fie
'mounted 28
Lemuel Janfon, of tlse Del Onzekeren, fays, fle mounted 28 guns.
Jacob Vix, a failor on board the Dutch flhip, fays the fame. johni Hallrick, feamau on board the Betty Cathcait, fays the fame. Charles
M'Donald, mate of this fhip, fays fhe had sB guns on the itch of Novembe'r, wvhcn they took him.
Hans Evertfon, mate of the Den 0nzekeren,.taken the t6th of November, fays fhse had then a8 guns mounted,
Adrianus Pappagaay, the doc'ror of the Dutch flip, fays f(he
had 28 guns. Here then is fuch concurrent teftimoisy of the iacreafed
force of this veffel, that it is impoilible not to admit it; and if admitted, itcarries with it the moft unequivocal proof that tlse (hip the Citizen
of Marfeilles, did encreafe her force of guns nounird and preparedfs, ufA
within the territory of the United States :,-There was no politive proof
as tothe ne vgun-carriages being adually carried on board ; neither
was there any of their beitg on board when fhe firit arrived. Mr. Harrifon mentiotis the repairing of fore, and where old ones were rotten,
guns that were aaually
tbe replacing them.
if this was ( lely for tlhofr
co ld not be called
jjjouuc
nd
at her arrival-I fe¢ notiling agatnff it-it

1796.

292

1796.
1

CASES

ruled and adjudged in the

fat at Charleflon, on the 5th of OR-tber following.. At that
Term, the con'miffio'ners haying made return of their proceed-

agst,

an augmentation of her foree-neither is there any evidence fufficient to
convince my mind that the crew of the Citizen of Marfeilles, at her going
out wasincreafed, or ifincreafed, in any way that could be faid to infringe
our neutrality. 1 hough fone of dhe evidences fay they were not all native
Frenchmen from their languagr, yet they all agree that the ftrength of
the crew were fo, the others were a mixture, there is no proof of any
one American citizen being on board, unlefs Quin wsa; as to other naThe a7th
tions, I know of no right we have to coniroul thair feamien.
article of outrtreaty -with Holland, which, by the 3d articleof the treaty
admits
tie
ca'rrying
to
then
all
opiuion
is
confirmed
with France, in my
awray feamen or other nat ives or inhabitants of the ref 1 ,e&ive nations o
board of any of their veffels, whethe'r of merchandize or War.
of the evidence produced in thiscaufe, it appears
From a ra,rfd reviwc,
c/earl to iethat the thip Citizen of Marfeil les,at her arrival in Philadelphia, mounited only 12 guns and had sther, but the precife nutber is not
efcertained, in her hold : that at the title of her leaving the river, fhe had
.6or z8 rtotted That captain Chabert having been refufed permiffion
Philadelphia, and declatinig he did not wifh to into open new ports inI
fringe the laws, and haviijg after wards done fo v ithin the territories
of the United States, could not and does not plead ignorance as an excufe. Whatever lie did was with his eyes open, andhbeing forewarnied,
he muff abide the confequenees.
, It remains now for me to enquire into the law arifing from the foregoing faas, and the power and dtty of this court thereupon.
There cannot be a doubt that if a profecution was inflfituted agalnft
Capt. Chabert, or any of the perfons co n cerned in increaling, augmenting, or .sorrilgto be increafed or augmented, iheforce of the veffel,
under the act of' June laft, but tla a convition muft follow. There
a penalty of fine and imprifonsment is declared, as a psnlhliment fo.
a breach of the fovereigity and neutrality of the United States; and
require
thisby a municipal law of our own : but what does the law of nation,
fu-tser ? I have in the courfe ofthe laft futmmer, delivered my opinion on
this qiseflon fo fully in this court, that I need only now repeat fome part
of the law then laid down. In the cafe of.lwfon veljur Talbot, I ftated that
this court, by the law of nations, has jtrifdilion over captures made by
foreign vetfels of war, of the veffels ofany other nation, with whom they
are at war, provided fuch vellels were equipped here, inbreach of our fovereignty and neutrality, and the prizes are brought ifra pr~xldla of this
country. By use law of nations, no fb,cign power, its fubjeffs or citizens, has any right to eref caftle, inlit troops, or equip veffels of war
in the territory or ports ofanother. Such afis are breaches of neutrality,
and may be pa nifed b y 'e izing the perfo s and property of tle offetid-.
ers. Veffeis vfwarfo equipped, are illrgal ab o,iginr, and no prizes they
pqwe,, if brought i/fia p,,Eldia.
make will be legal atsto the offendclr

The

feizure and refloration of fuch prizes are. what the laws of neutrality
You muft either peirmit both parties to equip in your
juftly claim.
ports, or neither.

Shnulti either equip "vithout y9ur confent, tie lea/i you

o, is to diveft them of the prizes they may have thus illgaly tait, and reftore them to the other party, or elce pemsit them to equip
allo. This cauf' and thi decree were flbmitted to the Circuit Court,
In Oiftobr lal, al there affirmed. An apipeal to the Supreme Court is
tiI undetermined, but until ti, opinion is ovcrriled by that tribunal,

can

hold myfeif boind to confider it an a law*.

I ga, e a like deciion lately, in the cafe of tle fchooner Nancy, from
afili cotvition isht the principles I laid down fornmerly, were founded
iyrr t] the la\vsof nations.
io
on the rules of p
It See Talbot c ,fus Yanfn, ?,t p.

SUPREME

COURT

of the United States.

ings, the Circuit Court, after a hearing, on t'henew evide-nce,
reverfed the decree ofthe Diftri& Court.
On the decree of the Circuit Court, the prefent writ of error was brought; and the following fads appeared from the
evidence, and'exhibits, tranfmitted with the record:
The citizen of ./Yiarfeilles had arrived from ilarfeilles, at

the Cape, in the month of june, 1793, at which time the was
armed, haiing ten port-holes on -each fide of the main-deck,
and a number of cannon in her hold. It was foon afterwards
propofed, to employ the veffel in carrying certain deputies if
-the Colony to France; and with that view, her warlike equipments were encreafed, and the Captain received a commiilion,
figned in Paris, :by the Minifter of Marine, but not dated, with
an authorifation endorfed by Santhonax, the Civil Commiffary
of the Republic, at the Cape, and by Pety, the French Conful
About
at Philadelphia.*
* It may be ufeful to illuffrate this cafe, as well aq to gratify curiofity at a future period, to fubjoin a copy of the cominifflion and endorfements, which are in thefe words:* Copie de ]a Commiffion en guerre, du Navire le Citoyen de Marfeille, Capitaine Vior Chabert pour fervir de Conumifflion pour le condu7teur de la prize Ilollandoife noinm6e Den Onzekeren Cap. Laurent
Hertenfvelt venant de Eflequebo et Demerary, allant A Middleburg.
LIBERTE

MARINE
]FRANCOISE

ECALIT'

Le Conftil Exfcutif dc la Rpublique Frantoife permet par ces pr6ide faire armer et equiper en gucrre un batifentes al Cap. Planchet,
Le Citoyen de Marfeille do port Lie400 tonneaux ou
menut nornm
environ, aibuel leacnet au port de ]a ville du Cap, avec tel nomobre Cie
Canons, Boulets, et telle quanhite de pnudre, plorub, et autres Iaunimcttre en tat
tions de guerre et vivres qu'il jogera n6ceffalre pour leI
de courir fur les pirates, forbans, gens fans aveu et gneralement tous les
pourra Ies
cunemis te la R~publique Franbife, en quelques lIeux qua'il
rencontrer et lesprendre et ar-nener priforniers avec curs ravires, arrnes,
et antres obj ets dont ils feront fitlis ; Ala charge par- le dit Planche, de
fe conForier aix ordonnances dc ]a marine et aux loix dcrcetes par les
1' Article IV. tIe la
Ieprefentans du Peuple Franyois, et notamtrnrnt
Loi du 3r. janvier, concernant le nombrilre cI' hommises devant forller
fon Equipa,ge de faire enregiftrer los prefentes lcttres au Bureau des
Clafles du lieu de fan depart, d'y depofer on Role ligne et eertifi6 de
I i, contenant les noms, farnoinsage, lieu de nailrhatce et dermeure des
gens de fon 6qnipage, et a fon retour, de faire fon rapport pardevant
1' officier charg6 dc 1' Adminiftration des Claffes de cc qui fe fera paffe
I
pendant fon voyage.
Le confe',l Executif provifoirc requiert tous pcuples, Amis, ou AII is de
'a R6pblique Franoife, et leurs Agents, de dotiner au dit Planche,
tou te affiffance, paffage, et retraite en leurs ports avec fon dit vaifteat,
et les prifes qu' il aura pu faire, offrant d' en -sfer de manse en pareilles
circoflta-ces, niande et ordonne aux Commandants des batimnens de
L'E-at de laiffer librement paffer ledit Plauche avce fon vaifreaa et ceux
qu' il aura pu prendre fur ' ennemi, et de lui donner fecours cc affiflance.
En foi de quoi le Confeil Exeeutifprovifoire de la Republiqae a fait
-ftgrcr les lirefentes lettres par le Miniftre de IaMarine et y a fait appofer le fceau de.la Republique.
, , ,Dounel

1796.

CASES

t

1796..

ruled and adjudged in the

About the end of September, 1793 (a few days before her failing) fhe had 28 guns mounted, 9? on her main-deck, 6 on her
quarter-deck, and z on her fore-c6sftle.. Her deflination, how-.
ever, being fiddenly changed, (the deputics taking another
conveyance, and the commiffioners putting the veff,l in requifition, to carry 3 or 400 fick and wounded Frenchmen.to America,) an immediate alteration was made, and her warlike
eqipments were rendered fubfervient to the accommodation of
paflengers. A partition was made before the main-maft, the
5 port-holes abaft, were planked up, to make room for paffenger's births, the S fhutters were fixed to a correfponding number of port-holes on each fide, the iron guns. were removed
where the ihutters had been put up, and wooden guns were

fubftituted
Donn6 A Paris le
quatre vingt treize,

jour du mois de
nil fept cent
I' an
de ]a Republique Fraiioife

Sign6, Mange A 1' original.
Par le Miniftre de la Marine.
Sign6, Cottrau A 1' oiginal.

(AU DOS EST ECRIT.)
Nous, Leger Felicit Son linax CoinmilFaire Civil de la Repubiique,
d 16gu6 ax Ifles Frantoifes de L' Am6rique fous le vent pour y retablir ' ordre et la tranquillit publique.
En vertu des pouvoirs qui nous ant 6td delegu4s par la lettre diu Minifire du 13. 9bre. 1792 en confequence de la loi du ,mumre mois.
Permettons kPlanche d' armer en courfe et courir fur les ennernis de
]a Republique Franioife en quelques lieux qu' il pourra les rencontrer.
La prefeite bonne et valable, a la charge par lui de fe conformer en toils
points aux ordres du Confcil Executifde la Republique ct a toutes les
Loix Marithnes non abrogpes et notaisment Acelle de 1681.
Fait au Cap Ic 30 Septembre 1793, L' Al 2emie. de la Republique.
Sign6, Sonthonax A P cri'ginal.
Par le Corniniffaire Civil de ]a Republique
Sign6 Gault A 1' original.
S. adjc. de Ia Con. Civile.
Je fouffign6 Jn. Bte. Petry, Conful de Ia Bepe'blique Frantoife i Philadelphie, Etat de Pcnfylvanie certifie i tons ccux qu' il appartielndra
que le ciioycn Antoine Franois Planchq din'ni6 (ains la )rcf6;ite
lettre de marque, eft riet6 dans cette Ville et que le Capnr. Vifor Chahert le remplace pour commanderi e navire Le Citoyen de Marfeill,
Perlris A I en confequence dc f' ei lervir contie les ennermiis de )a R6publiqu, ainfi que poor fe rcndre dans un por t de ]a d;te Mpubliqiie.
En foi de quoij' ai d6liv% ces prifentes aux que lles i' ai appofA le
feel confulaire, le snt fept Vendemiaire I,' An 3nie. de la R, 6publique
Fanoife u et idivilible.
Signd, Petry A I' original.
Jc Iufign.6, Capitaine du navire orin Le Citoyen de Marfeille, ai
dIvre lht prd6Cente copie Le a cornifflion eni guerre, pour fervir fr-lement de conduite de prife -an Cen. Jean Michel, Condue&ur de la prife
Bollaidnife Dcn Onzekeren, venant d' Efequebo et D-mnrary, dout
dtoit nmait-e Lamr-nt Harteenfvelt do Port et Havre de Middlebsnrg et
]a (lite prife faite par naoi fouilign6 Capne. du dit navire arriv6i li haUreur de 28 d
5 misute' de lattitude Nord et 62 d6grlis 20 rnilItes de
5g.
longitude Occidentalc, Meridjen dce Paris-Fait en mer A bord ile mloi
navire ar-m6 le 26 Brumaire ' an 3eine, de laRepublique Fran~ofe une
et indiv;iile. (16. 9 bir, 1694. V. Stile.)
Sign4 Chabert, fur la dite Copip,

SUPREME

COURT

of

the United States.

fubftituted ; fo that on the whole, fhe had, externally, an ap- 196.
pearance of the'fame force, that exifted before the alteration,
namely, 12 iron, and .i6 wooden auns mounted., The number
of iron guns .ini her hold, when (he left the Cape, was from 1z
to 16. On her approachi'ng the American coaff, (he difmrunt~d fone of the wooden guns, for the conveniency of
heaving the lead, and depofited them in the hold, leaving only
lo iron guns on the main-deck, and 2 on the quarter-deck.
When'fhe arrived in the bay of Delaware, fhe was taken for
a veffel of war, with a compleat.tier, of guns on each fide; and
the official certificates of the furveyor and infpedor of the port,
(though. there was fome apparent, but no real, difference between them, as the one referred to the a6ual' armanent of the
veffelb and the other included the guns difmounted) reprefented
her as arriving with 1j-cannon mounted, and a number of cannon in her hold., Soon after-her entering the port,.the Captain
. ppl ied to a (hip carpenter to operi the.port-holes, which'had"
.:' been'fhttt njatlthe Cape; but, having confulted the Governor,
'hedecined to, do th*t,'or a'ny other thing, ,which wi. calculated to augtment'the warlike for('e of the veffel. She-'was,
ho-wever, difinantled oatL one of-the W-harves, 24 gufls7 were
19irded from her, two remained in' the hold,o and two weelahed
:rothe forec4le;'And, in 'the cotrfe'of h~r geniera'repair: , the
Itate-rooms were. knocked. down,, die-veflel wgfs'cauilked sall
over, her o018 gun- carriages; were repaired, fome new. gun'-crriages" were made, -by her own carpenters, in the room 'of an
equal number of old'ones, that iere br6ken to pieces, the eyebolts,.for fixing the ginz-tackle, were taken out and re-placed,
and (be was furnifhed.with a new mafr
The veffel failed from.
Philadelphia, publicly, at noor, and gave three, cheers dn her
departure. The officers of the poit, and feveral'other wineffes
declared, that fhe departed in the fame apparent flate of warlike.
force, as (he exhibited on her arrival: the fame number of guns
being mounted, fnd the fame numb.r depofited in her hold.*Two witneffes (.of very doubtful credit) declared, that on her
paffage down the river, (he took on board, fwivels, gun-carriat[es, and mariners; that they affiftkd in opening the porthole,'that very few real Frenchme'n belonged to her crew, and
that part of them were enliffed in Philadelphia. But othet
witneffes declared, that the veffel only re-placed her wooden
guns in the. river'; that although fome of the crew joined her
below, it was cuftomary to do fo; and that the crew confifted
principally of Frenchnien, thugh there were men of azvariety
of nations o*n'bord. 'After the veffel had left the capes, he
began immediately to open all the port-holes, and to mount the
guns that had been depofited in the hold. She was vifited by
an American (hip, while thus empdoyed ; and all her gruns were
mounted,

96 .

CASES

ruled and adjudged in the

1796. mounted, at the time of her taking other prizes; the'Captaii,
\-e j of one of them reprefenting, .indeed, in a protefl, made ex parte,
that fhe mounted upwards of 30 guns; and the American vi
fitor flating, that the gun-carriages had -been juftipainted, and
were, together with their tackle, apparently new.
The cafe was argued, by E. Til hman and Lewis, for the
Plaintiffs in error, and by Ingerfoll, Dalla:, and Du, Ponceau4
for the Defendant.
By the former, it was contended, that, the veffkl had not a
competent, legal, cornniiffion.; that the force of the veffel was
augmented in the port of Philadlelphia,byencreafing the number. of her guns, and gin-cairiages, by opening new port-holesi
and by eIlifing American citizens: anj, that even, if tlhe faas
were-doubtful, as to-all the other points-, it was imcontrovertible, that new gun-cai:riages had beei fubftiituted for old ones,
which was an' unequivocal alteration and augmentation in a
matter folely applicable to war.
By the latter, it was anfwered, that the cornmtfon~xasva
1i.; that i0 point of .faC , there was no 6videiicof any ugmefitation of the forceof the'veffel, by. cannon orK mariners;
that the fiibflitution of'new, for old gun-carriages, was a mere
re- placement, not an augment4tion of fqrce ; and that, in point:
of Jw, an augmentation of.the force of a Fren hfhip of war,'
within ,the jurifdifdioi of the. United States, is, not fufficieiit
(according to our munijipgl law, or to the law of nations)...to
annihilate her warlike bha 'a,&er, hnd to deftroy fhe cOnven,
tional right of afylum for herfelf and her prizes.
After confideration, TRE COURT wer e unanimoufly of opinioq, that the decree of t.e Circuit Court o ght to be. affirmed;
-but-the Judges did not aflign their.reafons.
Th.e decree of the Circuit Court affirmed.,
' See

pft. Mlorlid verfus the Nta-be -nnte.

