C14CUIT COURT

Pennylvan'a DISTRICT,
1799-

The UNITED

STATES verfus FRIES.

NDICTMENT for Treafon by levying war againfa the
'UnitedStates, at Bethlehem, in the County of Northampton.
The Prifoner, after a trial that lafted fifteen days-, was convi6Jed : whereupon Lewis and Dallas, his Counfel, moved for a
new trial, on two general grounds.
xff. That there had been a mif-trial.
2d. That there had noi been an unbiafedand impartialtrial.
I. The fi6&s on the firift ground, appeared to be thefe : A
venzre, teffed the rith of O8ober, 1798, and returnable, the
xith of April, 1799, had iffued, by which the Marfhal was
commanded to fummon 24 Grand-Jurors, and " a number of
"' honefi and lawful
men of your faid diftrid, not lefs than
4 forty-eight, and not exceedingfixty, to ferve as petit-jurors."
Annexed to this Venire, the Marfhal, in due form, made a return of the whole number of fixty jurors, all of whom were
furmoned from the City and County of Philadelphia: And
on a feparate paper, figned by him, he returned an additional
number of 17jurors, fummoned from the County of _rorthampton, and f 12 jurors, fummoned from the County of Bucks;

making, in the whole, 89 jurors.

For this latter return, however,

* The length of the trial introduced the queftion, bow far the Court
could order an adjournment in a capital cafe ? The principle of neceflity, and the recent precedents in .P'g!,lnd, in the cafes of Rex vs. Hardy, and Rex -us. Tooke, were conlidered by the Court, and a&ed upon. The
jury were, however, kept together in the fame room at a Tavern, during
the times of adjournment ; and once (on Sundety) were Laken for recreation, in a carriage, into the Country ; but 11ill remaining under thi
charge of an oflicer, and within the jurifUi&ion of the Cuurt.

16

1799

CASES

ruled and aujudged in the

ever, no J/enire had iffued, nor did any fpecial award appear
on the Record; and the jury that tried the Prifoner, was cornpofed of jurors from Philadelphia,Northamptoni, and Bucks.
On thefe fa6ls, the Prifoner's Counfel made the following
points:
That although it was not ufual to grant a new trial in a capital cafe, it was, unqqf~ionably, in the power of the Court to do

it. 3 Bl.Com. 391' x Burr. 394.

2

Stra. 968.

6 Co. 14.

That before any procefs for the trial iffued, the A& of Congrefs contemplates a decifion of the Court on the place of trial,
the number of jurors to be fummoned from the proper County,
and the other parts of the Diftri& from which the reft of the
jurors fhall be fummoned.
That the Jenire had iffued before the decifien of the Court
on thefe preliminaries ; that the authority of the Venire went
no further than to fummons fixty jurors ; and that fixty jurors
being a&ually fummoned and returned from Philadelphia
County alone, the authority of the writ was executed.
That neither the A& of Affembly of Pennfylvania, nor the
common law of. England,would furnifh a power, or precedent,
for returning a greater number of Jurors than the Jenire, or
an order of the Judges, authorifed. 2 State Laws, 263.f 4. 5.
3 Bac. Abr. 739. Co. Litt. 155. a. 2 Hal. H. P. C. 263.
Keyl. 16. 2 Doll.Rep. 34-0. 4 Bl. Com. 344. 3 Bl. CoM. 352.
Co. Litt. 155. a. 21 Vin. Ab'. 472. 6 Co. I4"
That, therefore, a greater number of juror's, have been return'ed, than the enire dire&ed, or the Judges ordered ; and
that there was no authority at all for fummoning the jurors
fiom the Counties of Bucks and Northampton.
That even fuppofing the 29 th fedion of the Judicial A&
could have the effe& of a Venire, that effe& could extend no
farther, than toauthorife the Marfhal to fummons jurors from
the County, in which the crime of the particular offender under
trial is charged to have been committed ; but the Marthal had
fummoned the jurors. from other Counties ;. and i in fa&, the
Prifoner had been tried by Jurors from the three counties. See
4 Hawk. P. C. c. 27. f p. 136. 2 Hal. 260. 2 Hawk. c.
41.f 2. P. 376. 4 Hawk. 171. 3 Bac. Abr. 754. Doug. 591.

'Phat criminal profecutions are not within the flatutes of
.7.eofil/e; the exception appears on the Record; it may be
taken advantage of at any time; and for any mif-trial, on account

of

jury procefs, as well as on any, other account,

the verdi& mull be, fet afide. 4. Bl. Corn. 369. 2 Hawk.
c. 27. i Ld. Raym. 141. 4 Hawk. c. 31. f 4. P" 240"
Ibid. c. 47. f. 12. p.464 • . Ibid. c. 7J. 104.P. 175, 6.
Laws of Er'rors, 65. 4 Hawk. c. 25. 7 24. p. i6. Ibid. c.

35. f 28. p. '1.

That

CIRCUIT COURT Pennfylvan;a DISTRICT.

511

t7-9.
That the Penire for fummonin the jurors on the trials in
the year. 794, did not ref'ria the Marihal, as the prefent does, .,,j
not toexceed fixty;, but required him, generally, to return " a
number of honefl and lawful men of your faid Diftri& not ifs
ccthanforty-dight (whereof 12 thall be of the faid County of
".]lleghaney) to ferve as petitjurors;" and this mandate gave the
Marfhal the difcretion referred to by Judge PATERSO N, as
having been properly exercifed. 2 Dall. Rep. 335. 1
II. The faas on the fecond ground in fupport of the motion
for a new trial were, that Rhodes, one of the jurors, after he
had been fummoned as a juror; declared at feveral places, at
feveral times, and to feveral perfons, in fubftance, as follows:-0 That he was not fafe at home for thefe people (meaning the
cCinfurgents) that they ought all to be hung, and, particuilarly,
The Juror was confrontEd with
" that Fries muft be hung."
fhe witneffes who attefted thefe declarations, and denied them*,
as pointed particularly at Fries; but admitted that he had
made ufe of general expreffions, indicative of his difapprobation of the condl6t of the Infurgents.
On thefe fafs, the Counfel for the prifoner admitted, that
the proper time for taking this obje&ion, would have been,
when the Juror was called to be fworn, had they been apprifed
of it; but, they infifted, that what would have been good caufe
of principal challenge, if known, is good caufe to fet afide a
verdi&, if not known; and that the previous hoftile declarations
of a Juror would be a good caufe of challenge. rIiMod. i19.
Salk. 645. 3 Bac. Abr. 258. 9. 4 St. Y'rialh. 743. Cooke's Cafr.
The anfwers given by Rawvle, the attorney of the Diftritl,
and Sitgreaves, in fupport of the verdi&, were, to the following effe&:
I. That the venire, and aS of Congrefs, furnifhed a fufficient
authority to the Marfhall for both returns of Jurors: And.
that, in fa&, the Diffria Judge had given a verbal order, fubfequent to the venire, for returning thofe additional jurors, who
were fummoned from, the counties of Bucks and Northampton.t
That after having challenged the poll, the party was too late
to challenge the array. Co. Litt. 158. 12 ARod. 567. Ld.
Raym. 884.
That the venire, on the Englilh authorities, is in itfelf a
limitation
IIt was doubted whether the juror waT a competent witnes on this
queftiou ; but T"- COURT thought, that though he could not he compelled to give teffimnny, he might give it if he pleafed; and, accordingly, he was admitted, at his own re queft. On the ex.mination, however,he appeared very incorret in his recolle:lion of fadtii, though it was
agreed, on all hands, that he was an upiright man.
.f Th;Dikria Judge certified this faet during the argument.

5CASES

ruled and adjudged inthe

1799.

limitation, direing 24 to be returned; and yet for conveniencyia
greater number is always fummoned. 3 Bac. Abr..2 4 5 . 276,

"

Cro.

7. 467.

2 Tri.per. Pais. 599. 3 St. 7i*. 707. Ld. Ru/-

fel's cafe. -he UnitedStates vs. the Infurgents. z Dall. Rep. 335.
That if a perfon not fummoned at all gives the verdict, the.
verdi&q will be bad ; but where the whole of the Jurors have
been fummoned by the Marfhall,an exception, even before trial,
ought not to prevail. There were, in fa&, only 50 of the 89
perfons who were fummoned, that did attend ; and the venire
is not exceeded by that.numbei. 4- Hak. c. 41. I Vol. As
of Congrefs 58. Doug. 591.
That there is, in fubftance, an award pf the Jury by the
Court, after iffue Was joined between the United States and the
Priforer, as appears by the clerk's indorfement on the indi&'tment; and the names of the twelve Jurors who tried the indidlment, were duly notified to the prifoner.
II. That althotih the power of the- Court to grant a new
trial in a capital cafe could not be deniedl, fuch a new trial had
been feldom, if ever, granted ; and caufe of challenge to a Juror ought to be very cautioufly received as a ground for f'tting
afide-a verdi&.
That, in this cafei if the Court thought there was no injuftice, there ought to be no new trial. 2 Burr. 936.
That the declarations of the Juror related to the general
tranfation ; they were not applied to the iffue he was, fworn
to try; and they were not perfonally vindicftive as to Friej.
21 Vin. Abr. "Juries" Co. Litt. 157. b. Tri. per Pais. i89. 2
Roll. Abp. 657. 4 St. Tri. 748. zi Fin. Abr. "Trial" 266. r
Salk. i53. Refpublica vs. Glifton, in the Supreme Court of
Pennfylvania, a .pamphlet.
After a folemn confideration of the fubje&, IREDELL, .7uJ?ice, delivered his opinion in favor of a new trial, on the fcond
ground of objeaion, that one of the Jurors had made declarations, as well in relation to the prifoner perfonally, as to the
general queffion of the infurreffion, which manifelted a biafs,
or pre-determination, that ought never to be felt by a Juror.
He added, that he did not regard the firit ground of objei1ion
as infurmountable; but deemed it unneceffary to give a deci-"
five opinion on it.
PET.ErRS, Di/triri Judge, did not think, that either objection ought to prevail. He thought that the venire, and returns of the jurors, were authorifed by principle and precedent;
and that the declarations of Rhodes were fuch as might narurally be made in relation to the infurreaion, without manifeffing a particular hoftility towards the prifoner, or leading to
a convi~ton in fpite of any evidence, or argument, that might
occur

CIRCUIT COURT PentIfykanza DISTRICT.
occur on the trial As, however, the confequence of dividing
the Court, would be a rejetion of the motion ; and as the interefts of public juftice, and the influence of public example,
would not be impaired by the delay of a new trial, the Dxs4
TRICT JUDGE determined to acquiefce in the opinion of
JUDGE IREDELL.

A new trial awarded.

The EN

of the THIRD

VOLUME.

5T9

1799.

