SuPRErE COURT

of the United Statei.

365

r797.

BROWN

Plaintiff in Error, verfus

BARRY.

RROR from the Circuit Court for the Difirid of Virgi.
.E

nia. An a6ion of debt had been inflituted in the Cir-

cuit Court by Yames Barry, a citizen of Maryland, againfi

]ames Brown, a citizen of Virginia; in which the declaratioi
fets forth, that the Plaintiff by his attorney, " complains of
Yames Brown, &c. of a plea that he render to him the fum of
C770. fierling money of Great Britain, with interefc thereorn
at the rate of ioper centper ann u~m, from the i ith of February 1793, which to him he owes, and from him unjuffly detains: For that whereas the faid Defendant, on the -ilh of
February X793, at Firginiaaortfaid, according to the cuftom
of merchants, did make his firtl
bill of. exchange to the court
now here fhewn, bearing date the (aid iith of February 1793,
figned with his name, by his proper hand fubfcribed, and direted to Meffrs. Donald & Burton, whereby he requefted the
faid Donald & Burton at 6o days fight of that his firfi of
exchange (his fecond and third not paid) to pay to the order of
IVMr, Hector Kennedy, £770. fterling, for value in current
money here received, (that is to fay at Virginia aforefaid) and
to place the fame to.the account of him the (aid 7aines Brown."
The "declaration then proceeds to fet forth, in the ufiral form,
fucceflive indorfements by H, Kennedy to J7ofepb Hadfield, by
Jofeph Hadfield to Richard bljuilman &'Co. 'and by Richard
A/luilman & Co. (on the 26th of June 1793) to James Barry,

the prefent Plaintiff; and a proteft for non-payment on the 2Tft
,of June 1793. After averring that none of the bills of the
fet iad been paid, it concludes, " whereby and by force of the
ad of the General Affembly 7of the Commonwealth of Jirginia, in that cafe made and provided, adion accrued to the (aid
Plaintiff, to demand and have of the faid Defendant, the aforefaid furnl &c. &c."

.366

CASES

ruled and adjudged in, the.

To this declaration there was a plea of nl debit, iffue was
1797.
thereupon joined, and, after a trial, the jury found a fpecial
.
verdid in the following words :-" We of the jury find, that
" the confideration given for the bill of exchange in the decla" ration mentioned, was the undertaking of Adrew Glow &
Co. a party intcreffed in receiving the fame, t6 deliver to
7anies Brown, the drawer thereof, other bills of exchange,
" in fierling money to the fame amount: If the court (hall be
of opinion that the confideration above mentioned, did not
come within the operation of the 4 th fedion of the a1 of
,sAffembly of the 28. Geo. 2. C. 2. entitled I an ad to amend
an ad entitled; an aA dechiring the law concerning execu" tions, and for the relief of infolvent debtors, and for other
"
"

purpofes therein mentioied,' then we find for the Plaintiff,
4,404 4:Z-.'0 dollars damages ;-if otherwife, we find for

the Plaintiff 3,303 82-ioo dollars damages." To the fpecial verdid, this mremorandum was added :-" And it is agreed
by the parties, that if in the opinion of the court, the Plain"tiff could not iegally give parol teflimony to prove that the
5' bill in the declaration mentioned, was in fad, drawn for
other confide'ration than current money, the verdid (hall be
changed from 'thegreater to the lefs'furn founid in the faid
i4verdid."

,, ,'.

...

Thecafe was firflargued in the Circuit Court, on a motion
made by the Defendant to arreft the judgment, for the follo'ing reafons :-"'ift,
Becaufe the declar'ation aforefaid demands
foreign money, without flating the value thereof in the cur"

rent money' of the United States of Znerica, or of the Com-

monwealth of Jlirginia. 2d, Becaufe the faid declaration
does not charge that the bill of exchange therein mentioned
was protefred for non-acceptance ; neither doth it charge,
" that the faid bill was prefented to the perfons on whom it
" was drawn for aiceptance, or that they ever were required to
" accept it.
3 d, Becaufe the faid adion is fomnded on an ad
" of Affembly, which was not in force, at the time when the
" bill of exchange mentioned in the declaration was drawn.'
But thefe objedions having been over-ruled, the law arifing on
the fpecial verdict was argued, and ADJUDGED to be in favour
of the Plaintiff; whereupon judgment was rendered for the
fum of 4404 42-o dollars, with intereft at 5 per cent from
the day of rendering the judgment, and cofts.
From the judgment of the Circuit Court, the prefent writ
of error was brought, a variety of exceptions were taken to
the record, and after argument by Leer Attorney General,
for the Plaintiff in error, and by E. Tilgbman, for the
Defendant, the opinion of THE COURT was delivered by rH
CrIiM
JUSTICE, in tie following terms.
ELSWoR-I-j,

"

SUPR-ME Couki& of the United States.
367
ELswoR'rH, Cbief )jfl'ce.
In delivering the opinionOf 1797.

the court, I (hall briefly confider the exceptions to the record, k
in the order in which they have been propofed at the bar."
I. Thefi rf exception fltates, that the adt of the Legiflature of
Firginia, paffed in the year, 1748, on which the Iadion is
founded, as an adion of debt, was not in force, when the bill
of exchange was drawn, to wit, on the iith of Febi uary i793.
The queftion is, whether two fubfequent a&s of the Legillature of that State, paffed at a fefeon in 1792 (namely, one of
Nivember, declaring the repeal of the at of 1748, and another
of December, declaring a fufpenfion of that repeal till Oe7ober
1793) did in fac, repeal, and leave repealed, the faid ad of
z74? ? This, it is contended, mu!f have been their effed,
as afcertained and limited by two other ifatutes, namely, one
of 1789, declaring, that the repeal of a repealing ad fliall not
revive the ad firft repealed; the other of 1783, declaring,
that fiatutes fhould take effet from the day, on which they in
fad paffed, unlefs another day was named. It muff be taken,
however, that the ad of 1748, remained in force; and that,
until after the bill was drawn, for the following reafons - i.
.The ad, fufpending the repealing ad of.November 1792, is
not within tl+e ad of 1789, which declares, that the repeal of a
repealing ad flhall not revive the at frft repealed. The fufpenfion of an ad for a limited time, is not a repeal of it: And
the at of 17 8 o, being in derogation of the common law, is to
be taken itritly. 2.The repealing ad, and the ad fufpending
it, ads of the fame feflion, are, according to the Britih confiruction of ftatutes, and the rule, which appears to have prevailed in Firginia,parts of the fame act, and have effect from
the fame day : and, taken together as parts of the fame, act,
they only amount to a provifion, that a repeal of the act of
1748, fhould takeplAce at a day then future. The act of 1785,
declaring the commencement of acts to be from the day, on
which they in 'fact pafs, does not apply here; for, by the third
fction of the act of 1789, it is provided, that when a queffion
flball arife, whether a law paffed during any feflion changes,
or repeals, a former law during the fame feflion, which is the
prefent cafe, the fame coifruction fhall be made, as if the act of
1785, had never been paffed, that is, both acts being of the fiame
felion, fhall have the fame commencement, on the firfl day of
the feflion. 3. The manifeft intent of the fufpending act was,
that the act-, repealed by the repealing act, fhould continue in
force till a day then future, the firft of Otober, 1793. It could
have hal no other intent. And the intention of the Legiflature,
when difcovcred, muff prevail, any rule of confIruction declared by previous acts to te contrary notwithflanding. Thus,
the

368
1797.

CASES

ruled and adjudged in.the

the act of 1748, clearly was in force when the bill was
drawn.

I1. The fecond exception frates, that there is no averment
of aThis
proteft
for non-acceptance of the bills.
exception
is invalid on two grounds. i. It does not
appear, that tht bill was not accepted, fo that there could
have been *ftch protefi ; and, if accepted, it would have been
immaterial for the Plaintiff to fhew, that it was fo, as his right
of action could in no meafure depend on that fact. The filence
of the declaration as to the queltion, whether the bill was accepted or not, does not vitiate it; the action being on a pro-

teft for non-payment. 2. As to bills drawn in the United States
and payable in Europe, of which this is one ; the cuf'om of
merchants in this country does not ordinarily require, to recover on a proteft.for non-payment, that aproteft for non-acceptance ihould be produced, though the bills were not accepted.
I fay the cuftom of merchants in this country; for the cufrom
of merchants fomewhat varies* in different countries, in order
to accommodate itfelf to particular courfes of bufinefs, or 6ther
local circumfances.
Il1. The third exception flates, that the judgment is for too
large a fum, the bill having been taken for fterling, when, by
the act of !775, it ought to have been taken for current money
of Firginia. That act requires, that if the confideration of
a bill be a pre-exifting currency debt, or be current money,
paid at the time of the draft, the hill fhall exprefs the amount
of the debt, or currenlcy paid, which was the real confideration.
And that on fallure fo to'do, the bill, though it may be expreff.
ed for Aterling, as in this cafe, fball be taken to be for current
money. The bill is thus expreffhd, " For %lue received in
"

current money;" but it does not fay how much.

The jury,

however, have, by their fpecial verdict, afcertained, that the
real confideration of the bill was an engagement to draw other
flterling bills. Now'it is clear, that the confideration in fact,
though variant from the face of a bill, is regarded by the act,
and muft be fought for, to give the act effect. Upon inquiry
the jury have found the confideration to be fuch as to take the
cafe out of the ftatute. In this bill then, the words added to
value received, viz. " in current money," were immaterial
and without effect: And, therefore, the words in the declaration, as defcriptive of the bills, might be difregarded by the
jury and the court.
IV- The fourth exception f'ates, that the action is for foreign money, and its value is not averred. The verdict cures
this. The jury have found the value, their verdict being in
dollars. The value of fterling money, here rued for, had been
long afcertained in Firginiaby flatute, and was certain enough.
V. The

SUPREME COURT of

the. United States.

V. Thefifth exception flates, that the declaration isin the
debet, as well as the detinet, though for foreign money.
The reafon of the rule, that debet for foreign money is ill,
is the uncertainty of its valve ; and, therefore. both the 2itfwers given to the fourth, apply to this prefent, exception..
Let the jud,ment of the Circuit Court be affirmed.

EMORY verfus GRENOUGH.

MafiaEF RROR from the Circuit Court for the Diftri6l of

chufetts.
The Plaintiff in error was a native of Maffachufetts, formerly refident in Boflon, where he contra&ed the debt in queftioij
to the Defendint in error, who was, alfo a native, and had always continued a refident, of that ftate. Some years afterwards
the Plaintiff in errror removed into Pennfylvania, became a
refident citizen of the ftate, took the benefit of her bankrupi
law (which, in its terms and operation, was analogous to the
bankrupt laws of England) and duly obtained a certificate
of conformity from the commiffioners. Subfequent to this difcharge, he returned, on a tranfient vifit, to Bofton; and, being
there arrefted by the Defendant in error, for the old debt, he
caufed the fuit to be removed from the State into the Circuit
Court, and pleaded his certificate in bar to the' adion : but the
court (confifting of Judge IREDELL, and the Diftri& Judge)
over-ruled the plea, and gave judgment for the Plaintiff below:
whereupon the prefent writ of error was brought.
The argument of the caufe had been confiderably advanced,
when a contagious fever made its appearance again in Philadelphia, and the bufinefs of the court was unavoidably fufpended. But at February Term, 1797, the court h:ving decided,
VOL. III.
B bb
in
* It appeared, during the difcttffion, that a great diverfity exifled in

the law and practice of the feveral States, npon this ftibject ; and that

a ecilion, divectly contrary to that of the Circuit Court of Maffachufelts, had been given in the Circuit Courr o Rhode Itland, compofed of
Jtdge Ifon and tke Diftrict ude.

T797.

