3.8

CASEs ruled and adjudged In th'e

1796.

OLNwy vetfus

ARNOLD.

HIS was a writ of error on a judgment given in tle. SvT.1. perior Courit of Ju dicatuire,'courr ofaflize arid jail deU.livery, for the county of Providenc', in the State of'Rhode i/and; and the cafe, appearing on the record, was as follows:22
Olney, the Plaintiff in error, was the colle6or of impofts for'
Rhode Ij/and; Arnold, the*Defdndant in error, was owner of
the flip Neptune; and a citizen' 6f the name of DexteP, as the

declarationt alledged, was owner of the' cargo 'of the fhip
which arrived from Surinam, at Providence, about 4 o'clock'
P. M. on 'the 6th of November, 1792. On .that day, 'the parties Applied for a permit to land the cargo,' and offered bonds to
piy the duties; but the c6lle&0r refufed, or negleded, toaccept th6 bonds and'graint the permit. On the 7 th of
veibr,,a fecond application' was madd for a permit, and bonds, acreally executed, were tendered for the payment of the duties
but the colledor again peremptorily refufed to 'accept the'
bond,'or't6 grant the permit ; in confequeuce of which the
veffel, With the cargo on board, remained at a heavy expence
from the 6th to the 13th of November ; and Irnold laid his
damages at 2o0.
Olney, the. Defendant in the court below, pleaded that by the
xft
fedion of the a6d of Congrefs, paffed on the 4th of Augufi,
4
-

1790,

SUPREME COUrtr.

of the United States.

309

;790, " to provide more effe&ually for the colleio of the. I79,.6;
.duties, &c." it is declared that all duties on goods, wares'and
merchandize imported, fhall be paid, or fecur6d to be paid, before a permit thail be "gra'nied for landing the fame.:" and that.
5' no perfon whofe bond. for the payment of duties is due an.&
unfatisfied, (hall be allowed a future credit for duties, until fuch
bond fhall be fully paid, or difcharged ;" that on -the 17th of
7anuary, 1792, Arnold being .indebted for duties, gave a bond
fQr the amount, payable on the 17th of May, erfuing'; that oi
the 5th of November 1792, the term for payment of the bond
was elapfed, but the fame then remained unpaid and' undifcharged ; that Arnold was the real owner of the cargo, but had
fraudulently transferred it to Dexter, in order to obtain, a credit
at the Cuftom-houfe; that, though Dexter had tendered a bond
on the 7 th of November, it was reje&ed by virtue of the
recited adft of Congrefs ; and that a permit had been refufed
until the duties of the cargo were paid, or 4rnold's old bond.
was difcharged.
To this plea the Plaintiff below demurred, and affigned the.,
following caufesofdemurrer : ift, Becaufe the mantters cbntained in the plea might be given in evidence, if at all, under the
general ifiie ; and they amount to no more than the general
iffue; 2d; Becaufe the plea ftates the property of the cargo to
be in Arnold," and does not traverfe the property of Dexter.
tberein. 3 d, Becaufe it does not appear that the old bond giv-.
esi by Arnold was unfatisfied after.the 5 th of November 1792.
4 th, Becaufe the bond given by 4rnold was for his own proper
debt, and the bond tendered by Dexter was for his own proper
debt: And 5th, becaufe the plea is inconfiftent, uncertain, not
iffuable;, and wants frhin.
I The' Defendant joined in demurrer:, and, thereupon; the
Court of Common Pleas, for the County of Providence, deciided that the plea was a fufficient bar to the adion ; and, in De&ienberJ792, gave judgment. 'for the.Defendant accordingly.'
From this judgmbnt the Plaintiff, appealed to the fuperior court
of judicature, where it was adjudged, in December 17N., that
the plea in bar was' not fufficient;' arid the caufe was remitted
to the County Court for trial. On the trial, the Jury gave a
verdid for the Plaintiff, damages /j13 5f. with cofts :, and the
Defendant below brought the prefent writ of error, to. remove
the proceedings into the Supreme Court of the United Sgates.;
the conftrudion and validity of the ad of Congrefs, under
which the Defendant juffified, bcin involved in the decifion of
Ohe State Court. Conflitution of ihe United '.tates, art. 3. f
. Laws
.....
0, of
, the
t United.States,- .,r 'ol. p. 63. If 25.

T wy,

310
1796.,

k-ither

CASE~S ruled and adjudged in the

'Two leading. quefcions were mada in this cafe?, ift, Whe-t
the plea was a fufficient bar to the affion ?-particularly,
on the around of the third caufe afigned upon the demurrer ;
as the befendant only alledged Arnold's old bond to be unpaid
en the 5 th of November, whereas he admitted a tender of a
bond for. the duties on the 7 th of November. And 'd, WVhe-,
ther the fuperior court, on whofe judgment the writ of error,
was brought, or the General Affembly, was the highetf Court
of Law or Equity of the State of Rhode Iiand, in which a
decifion of the faft could have been had ?
The firfl queffion was argued at the laft term, by Prngl22
and Dexter, for the Defendants in errbr, and by Lee, Attorney General, for the Plaintiff in error: but THE COUR'K declaring it to be unneceffary to give any opinion on the princi.%
pal cafe, till it was decided, whether the record was regularly.
.before them, dire&ed the fecond queffion to-be difcuffed at the,
prefent term ; when Lee, Attorney General, again argued for.
the Plaintiff in error, and Ingerfoll for the Defendant.
The Attorney General, in contending that the writ of error.
was well brought, flated, that there could be no doubt, that
this court had jurifdiffion in the prefent caufe, as it appeared
upon the record, that the conffrufion of an aft of Congrefs,
under which the collefor juflified, had been drawn into quef-,
ticmn, and no other error could be affigned. He faid, that there
were two obvious reafons, why the Legiflature of Rhode Ifland,
could not be confidered as the court contemplated by the law:
for, in the firfI place, it mufl be a court of law or equity*, in
which a decriion of the fuit could be had. A decifion imports
a final determination between the litigants; and not a partial
adjudication, which fettles one point of the controverfy, and
refers the reff to another tribunal. Though, therefore the Legiflature fhould be vefted with an equitable power, to examine
the proceedings of a court of law, and, if it thinks proper,, to
direft a new trial'; this cannot be regarded as confituting a
co'urt of law, within the meaning of the aft of Conogrefs. But
in thofecond place, it muff be a court of law or equity, from
which a writ of error could be obtained. The 25th fe&, of
the judicial at requires, that the citati6n without which, a
writ of error cannot be available, fhould be figned by the Chief
Jufl e or Judge, or Chancellor of the court, rendering or pafsing
4 ELSWORT , Ci/
ef

ice.

As this is a queftion of law, it is not ma-.

teral to enquire', whether it was the fuperior court of equity.
"C CHAsr, Juftic.

The citation may Jikewife be fignied by a juftice

of this court.

Ler, Attorney General. True ; liut the aqf contemplates giving an
Xtcrttative to accommodate the party.

SUPRhME

OURT of

the "UrniedStates.

.311

Ing the judgment or decree complained of; and no fuch officer
' The jurifdicis a conffituent part of the legiflatiret.
tion of the general affembly in matters of law, depends on an
a& of their own body. Laws ofRhode ifiand, p..
But
f The ant is in the following words
11 An a& direfting the method of preferring petitions usito the general
offembly, and of a&ing thereon.
Be it enacted by the general affembly, and by the authority thereof
Ir is ena&ed, that whenever any perfon or perfons flhall prefer a petitioa
to the general affembly, praying, that any judgment, rule of court, or
determination whatever may be fer aide, and that execution may be
flayed, he or they fo petitioning hall, at leaft three weeks before the
feffton of the general affembly to which fuch petition fhall be preferred,
deliver and hlge his or their petition in the fecretary's office ; and giving
bond in the faid office with one fuffierent furety, in fuch for as he, the
fecretary, confidering the nature of fuch fuit or executions fhall think
meet" the condition of which bond fhall be for the payment of all lawful cofts and damages, which the adverfe party Isall fuftain by means of
preferring fuch petition ; and, that thereupon, the feeretary fhall iffue a
citation, for the adverfe party to appear (if he or they (ball think fit) at
the feifton of the general aflembly, to which fuch petition hall be preferred, to fhew caufe why fuch petition flould not be granteo ; and the
adverfe party fhall he ferved with fuch citation, and a copy of fuch petition, by the fhe riff of the county, or his deputy, where he or they
may dwell, ten days at leaft before fnch feflion of the general affembly;
and if fuch perfon or perfons cannot he found by the Iheriff or his deputy, then, the leaving a copy of the petition and citation at the ufual
place of his or their abode, flall 'be deemed a good fervice ; and the
fheriff or deputy (hall make return of all his proceedings to the clerk
of the lower hotife, at the firft opening of the general affembly. And
that when any petition lball be called for trial, if there be not a proper
'etuarn made by the (heriff or his deputy, that the adverfe party hath
been duly notified as thisaa requires, fuch petition fhall be'immediately
difinifred.
And be it further ena(ted by the authority afojefaid, That when any
petition fhall he received by the general afrembly; the granting the
prayer wshereof may by any means relate to or concern the intereft,
property, ot charaaer of any other perfon or perfons whomfoever, that
in fuc cafe every fuch petition 1hail be referred to the next feffion of
affembly, and the perfon or perfons fo petitioning, fhall within ten
days after the rifing of the affembly, give bond in manner as afore
direded; and all perfons fo concerned fhall be duly ferved with a
copy of fuch petition, and the vote of affembly thereon, and b e cited in
manner as aforefaid ; and if the perfon or perfons fo petitioning flall
to give bond as afurefaid, then fuch vote or order of the Genetelet
tal Affembl ' referring fuch petition, (hall be void and of no cife&.
Andbe it further ena&ed by the auth6fity aforefaid, That at the begitning of every fefflon ofthe General Affembly, a rime (hall be aligned for the hearing and determining all petitions pending before them;
and the Clerk of the Lower fIoufe ihall make a docket ofall fuch petitionus in themCane manner as the Glerks of the Court,, of Coinnmon Pleas
do ofa&ions, alwa3y noting in the margin the time when each petition
was filed or received; which docket fltall be fet up in view in the Houfe
flbs l iit.N with a tote at the botftom therrof of the
w icr th!- Affcibi'.
time

179'6.

312

%796.

CASE, ruled ahd adjudg'd hi th

But, however extenfive this power may appear to be; it i4
wholly of an equitable kind. The Legiflature may, like a Chancellor, review the determinations of the courts of law' and dil-'
redt the iflui to be again tried; but it is not itfelf a Court in
which
rime appointed for their being heard: That each petifioni fliall .e called for and determined in its proper courfe as it flands upon the docket ; arid if the Petitioner being called, doth jtsr appear, hi' petition
lhall be immediately difiniffod, but if he doth appear to enforce his petition, and the refpondent upon being thrice ca llcd, lhall not appearf
the prayer of the petition flhall be gratited, if the fame be reafonable.
And be it further ena&ed by the authority aforcfaid, That no petition fliall be received by the General Alembly, except the Petitioner
ihall pay tile fees eflabliflted by law ; and that the fame coti be allowed and taxed upon petitions preferred to the General Affembly;
in all rcfpras and in every particular as are allowed by law, in cafes
before the inferior Courts of Common Plaas ; and tile bills of cofls fliall
be taxed by the Clerk of the Lower Houfe, and allowed by the Secretary: That the Secretary Ihall grant execution for all cofls, returnahle
to the nex-t fucceeding General Afflembly : And that the Secretary arid
tle Clerk of the Lower Houfr, flall be allowed Elsefarhe fees, iu all rcefpe&s, upon petitions as are allowed to the Clerks of the Superior
Court of Judicature in caufes before the iaid Court.
And be it further enated by the author'ity aforefaikl, That when any o
nrew trial fhall berawarded by t*L General Aflembly, to any perfon or
perfons, the party obtaining fuch new trial, fliall pay all lawful coft,
'aid damages that he or they may have put 'the adverfe party to, in defrendiIg agaiift fuch petitions, unlefs lie or they fliall upon fuch new
trial obtain fome alteration of the former jbrgtent, in his or their
avour.
And Ire it further enaeted by the authority afurefaid, That whien any
perfon or 'perfbs flal 1 fuffain any damage by reafon of any petition
preferrd ts the General Afl'embly, concerning which bond flsall have
been titered into as aforefaid: the Secretary hoill deliver fileh bond t6
the perfon or perfons fo aggrieved, Nhvli
5 may bring a fAit on fuch bond
aiainfl the perfons who gave the fame: and the Judges of the Court
where ftrch fuit fhall be brottgl.t, are empowered to hear tile parties
concernig all matters of damages, as herein bef6re expreffed ;. and oa
heatirrg juffly and equitably to determine the damages the party or
par tic complaining hath or have fuftaied by fltaying the execution or
orlsersroceCdirgsin ftcli ca ufc, or grarting a tiew trial therein ; and
alfo to reluee the fum mentioned in fuch bond, to juft dairiges and
to award cxecutilun accordingly;
Arrd he it further Citafled by tire authority aforelfid, That every perCon wrho diall prcfer a petition to the General Affembly, for an aif of
infolvrncv, Mhall exhibit ierewith a juit and true inventory of all his
rCal arrd perfonal efitate and alfo of ;hvit eftate lie isay have in reverlion or reiriaindcr, whicl lisall b6 fworn to befbre an affiftant ju&fcee or
warden in the county whereit tire petitioner fhall dwell or be confind ; anit if fuch petition be received, the inventory disall be lodgwor fliall give copies
ird with the Clerk of the Lower Hotif
titereof to anr crqditor requirinr' the fame : And if fuch petition be
Whlsere
finally gra'tled tse Clirk Of thC StVperior Ceurt, in thC c61
the

SUPREME COURT of the United States.

11

vhich an ultimate decifion can be had. The jurifdi ion of I796
the @ourt, on whofe judgment the prefent vrit ,o error is
brought, is of a very different defcription, in its coiflitutionas well as in the effed of its adjudicatiohs". The appeal was
carried
the petitioner fhall dwell or be confined,, flall notify the creditors to
appear, befo:e, the judgeg of the faid court, to ruaminate cotmiffioners;

&c. by an advertifement, to be-rinfirrted three weeks fucceffively, in the
reveral papers, wher the principal creditors live.
Provided neverthelefs,. and he it fimther ena&ed by the- authrity
aforefaid, Thdt 'all hdstters and regulations in this a6 be, extended
to private petitiois only, between party and party, ary thing liereit .
before contained to the contrary notwithianding.
The Attorney Generalf-eferrd to the laws of F hode [fland, coitftituting the fuperior and ihferior cburti, which it is thought expedient
to infert at large by way of illtlflration to the cafe.
"IAn aft for the eftablifhment of a 9uperior Court ofjudikature, Court
of Affize and General Gaol Delivery, in and throughout this Colony.
Be it enacted by the General Affem~bly; and by the authority thereof
it is enacled, That there fhiall be a Superior Court of jugicatisre, Court
of Affize, and General Gaol Delivery, over the whole Colony; for tie
regular hearing and trying all pleas; real, perfonal, and mixed, and
all pleas of the Crown ; alfo all matters which refpe& the confervation of the peace, and punifhment of offender , whatever 6ircumflances may attend fuch matters or things, whether arifing between party
and party, refpefting debt, contrat, ight of freehold, damages, or
jerfonal injury, or whether between the King and his fubje&g, or nlixed in nature ; and whetlser bro-skht in raid court by appeal, writ of review, writ of error, Cetiorari, or otherwife as the law direts : which
'ourt fball confiff of one Chief Juftice or Judge, and four affociate or
afliftant Juftices or judges, to be app anted and chofen by the Gene; al
Affembly, annually, for that end and purpofe, tIny three of whom fhall
be a quorum, who fhall be commiffioned for the difcharge of their
office ; and flhall thereby have the famae power and authority, in all mar
ters and things in this Colony as the court of Common Pleas, King's
Bench or Exchequer, have, oi onight to have, in that part of Great
Britain heretofore called England, antid be empowered to give judg-,
ment in all matters ad things before them ognizable, and to award
execution thereon ; and alfo to make fuch neceffary rules of praftice;
as to them; from time to time, fhall be thoiight needful, for the better regulation of fuch court, aid the advantage of his Majefty's fub22
jeds, fo that fuch rules lie not repugnant to any kniown laws. And that
there be thofen annually by the General Affembly, one Clerk in ach
county for faid courti who fliall conflatitly attend the fitting of fuchb
court in the refipefive counties for which they (hili be chufen; fball,
keep the feal of the court, and fiake fair records ard etstri~s of tht
judgments and proceedings of the faid 'ourt, and do, aid perfori ,fl1
6ther things which fhall fall within their fait office and duty. And thar
the Laid Clerks fliall have the fame power and authority offurrogating
and appointing deputies tnder thei, in the famfe manner as the Clcrks

V6L

IHS

CASEs ruled and adjudged in the
i796.
Scourt

carried from the inferior court into that court, as to the higheft
of common law; and is thence brought regularly hither.
But if any doubt fhall exift upon the fubje&, the coriftruffion.
fhould be in favour of that general principle, in the policy of
all well regulated, particularly of all republican, governments,
which prohibits an heterogeneous union Of the legiflative and
judicial departments.
Ingerfoll, in repl ' claffed his arguments under three points
of enquiry:-if .i s the Legiflature of Rhode lf/and a court?
qd. Is,
feveral Inferior Courts of Common Pleas and General Seflions
of the Peace have by law, and hall be alike accountable for theit
doings, and that fach deputies hall be fworn before the. laid Superior
Court, or one of the Juftices thereof, for the true performanee of his
duty.
And be it further enaaed by the authority afoxefaid, That the laid.
SuperiorCourt of Judicature, Courtsof Aflize and General Gaol Delivery, in and throughotat the Colony, fhall annually meet and fit.at the
following places and times, viz. at New Port, within and for the courty of New Port, o the firit Moday in September atnd on the fieft
Monday in March, tit Providence, within -.nd for the county of Pro-,
vidence, on the third Monday in September, and on the third Monday
in March, at South Kingflown, within and for the county of Kin.g's
county, on the firfr Monday in Oftober, and on the firlh Monday in April,
at Briftol, within and for the County of Briftol, on the fecond Monday,
in Oftober, and on the fecond Monday in April ; nd at Eaft Greenwich,
within and for the county of Kent, on the third Mouday in O&ober, and
on tlse fourth Motiday in April. And that both the Grand and Petty
jury in the feveral counties, Ihall give their attendance at faid court,
on the fecond day of the rourt's titting, by nine ofthe clock in the
forenoon : and in cafe of none appearance ofa fuflicient number, fuch
juries (hall be filled up de talibus cilcuinjlantibur, as at the isferior Courts of
Common Pleai; and General Seflions of the Peace, by the Sheriff or his
of the

deputy.

Arid be it further ena&ed by the authority aforefaid, That in all caufes brought by appeal from any of the inferior Courts of Common Pleas
and General Seflions of the Peace, unto the Laid Superior Courts ofJudicarure, Court of Affize, and General Gaol Delivery, Fuch bonds fhall
6
c given, reafons filed, and attefted copies brought up, and-all fuch other
regulations'obferved for bringing forward appeals, as are contained aad
direded in the a"s, for eftabliflling uch Courts of Common Pleas and
And that in any appeal from the judgGeneral Seflions of the, Peace.
ment of any inferior Court of Common Pleas, to the Laid Superior
Court of J'wdiqature, in civil a&ions, both paties fhall have the benefit
ofany new or further evidence relating to the cafe.
Aihd be it further enafted by the authority aforefaid, That when, any,
perfon hall be found guilty of any crime by the Petit Jury, at any
Court of General Sefllions of the Peace, for which he hall have been

there tried by original procefs, and fhall appeal from the fentence orjudgment given on fitch verdi& to the Laid Court of Affize and General
Goal Delivery, he Ihall there be duly heard thereon, by the court,
who may alter fuch fentence in fuch manner as to them /hall appear
agreeable to law, and according to fuch diferetionary

powers as are

vefled in them; but the Appallant fhall not in virtue of his appeal,
have another hearing on the merits, or iffue in fa&, before another Jury,
at the laid sourt appealed to : any law, cuftow, or ufage to the Gontrary in any wife nutwithlfanding.

SURFkEME COURT of the United States,

2d. Is it a court of law ?-and, 3 d. Is it a court capable of giving a decifion within the meaning of the ad"of Congrefs

z.By the ad of the general affembly, the Legiflature of
Rhode Ifland is exprefsly conftituted a court, fuper-eminent ir
its jurifdiclion; though, perhaps, novel in its formation and
effeds. The charaleriftic of a fuperior court of law, is the
power of calling parties before it, in order t# affirm or reverfe
the judgments of inferior tribunals. This cannot be done by

a court of equity; nor can itbe done by a legiflative body, iin
ts
And, far the better attainingjuflice in all cafes, tried at faid Superior Ceurt, where any penalty is forfeited, or conoitional eftate recovered, or equity of redemption fued for, whether judgnt be confeffed,
or otherwife obtained, the Judges of faid court are hereby empowered,
and authorized to proceed, according to the rules of equity, and to
ehancerize forfeitures, and to enter up judgment for joft debts and darnages, as juflice and equity require, and to award execution accordingly.
And be it further onafted, That any one of the Judges of the S pe'riorCourt may, out of term time, grant a p.rohibition to flay proceedings in any court of Vice Admiralty, in this Co1any, if the famc ihall
not appear to be properly within, and to appertain by law to, thejurif-,
di&ion of fuclk court, and that a final determination and Judgment,
vith regard to fuch prohibitioe, ihall and may be given by the Judges
*of the faid Superior Court, or any three of them, being met, or meeting
at any time to confider of fuch matter.
And all judgments of the aforefaid Superior Court fQall be final, except where actions of review, qnd appeals to the King in Council are
by law allowed."
empowering thejuftices 9f the feveralluiferi'or Cnurts ofCom ."9 An as-&t
rnon Pleas, in this Colony, or any tlree of then, to cqnflitute, and holto
fpecial Courts of Common Pleas on certain occafions.
Be it enacted by the General Afllemblyi.and by the authoritythereof it
is ena&ed, that the juffices of the feveral Courts of Comlon Pleas in
this Colony, may, and they are hereby fully authorifed and empowere4
to m.et and hold fpecial inferior Cotrts of Common Pleas, within their
feveral counties, any three of whom hall be a juorutn, for the hearing
and trying all fuch caufes, as by law are or fhall be cognizable, before
fuch fpecial courts to give jndgr'ent thqreeon, according to law, wNhicl
!
Phall be final, and to award execution ; and that the clerks of the infr,"
fpecial
refpecive
the
'of
be
clerks
rior Courts of Commqo Pleas Lhall
fourts to be held as aforefaid.
And be it furtherenaaed by the authority aforefaid, that all writs and
proceffes far the bringing any caufe or fuit to trial, fhall iffue out of the
clerk's o ite of faid co~urt, in his Majefy's name, under the feal of the court,
be figned by the clerk and dire&ed to" the fheriff or his deputy, and ff..
curity for profecuting fhall be given, where the ?laintiff is not an in
habitant and freeholder io this colony, in the faime manner as by law is
required at the taking out a writ to tie inferior court of Common Pleas
in common cafes. And that all fuch writs and proceffes ifl'ued as aforefaid, hall l1e ferved at leaft three days before the day of the fitting of
fuch court, and the declaratiot fhall be filed on furl writ at the opening
of
the court.always, and it is the trve
, Provided
iptent and meaning hereof, that
.yemen the Sheriff, Clerk, or town Sergeant, or any of them are parties,
the writ, original and judicial, fhall be iigned, direfled to, and ferved
by fuch perfon, as in fuch like cafe as the jitferior courts of Commotl
A..
ordered ,nd d irelted.
*?lcasis.

7796.

AsEs ruled and adjudged

rjq6.
,

in the

irs ordinary capacity: and yet it can be done by the general
affgmbly of Rhode Iyland, fitting as a court of law, under tho
authc',ity of a'legiflativ at.. For fuch occafions, a regular
dockt is kept ;' the'caufes are ent&red ; the 'parties are called
upon' in' thecourfe df ih'e term ; a clerk is employed ; and the
judgment of thi infe'rior court may be reverfdd. It is true,
that the geheral affenIbly cannot try a fa6; but neither can
the Houfe of P1'6'r,; yet, th at is, undoubtedly, the'higheft court
6fjuftice in Great'Britain. It is, likewife, true, that the a4~
bf Rhode Ifawnd does"'not fay any thing refpe&ing -the power of
..

" "
- .

'

the

And be it fiurthcr ena&ed, that when any' perfon fhall have right by
laiv to commence'a fuit to a fplecial cdurt lie flhall go to the Chief Juftice, or one offhis affociates, jufticesof the inferior court, and make his
requeft for the calling fach fpeclal court, and the Laid juflice ]iall there-:
upon give forth a notificatinn, in writing, 'under'his hand," to the other
ufticeslof, fuch inferior court, warning ther • to meet at the day by him
inl fuch notification ap iointed, in ordei to hold a fpecial court ; whici
being done, any ether perfon, ! ntitled by' law, may comfisefce, aftions
to fuch fpecial court, without any furtlr requeft or notificntion ; and iW
any writs to fpecial courts be made retufnable in term time, no requef
or notice fhall.b e neeeflry.
And beit further enafted by the authority aforefaid, that if iffue in
faft fliall be joined in any fuch cafe, h writ of 7yenire facias fliall iffue t6,
i ie Sheriff or his deptity, or in cafe of the Sheriff's being a party, then to
fuch perfon as by law it' may bej in fuch like cafe, at the ftated inferiof
courts to, return to fuch fpecial court twelve good and, 'lawful jurors to
try fnch iffue.
And that the fees at'fitch fpecial courts fhall be the fame as are allow-,
ed and. taxed at the fuperior court.'
.
And be it furtherr ena&ed, thvat execution on any judgment obtained
at fuch fpecial cou.rt, may iffue immediately, and fhall be' returned into the clerk's of.je in fourteen days after takingout the fame.
Andit is hereby ena&ed., that the. fame rules fliall beobferved in commencing n&ions at fpeeial courts, with refpe& to the county in which
the fame fhtall be commenced,"as by law arefiged for biinging trantitory
aftions to'thesinferior'courts of Common Pleas.
And be it further ena.&ed by. tlte authority aforefaid, thlat the venduemaflersuf the feveral towns in thtis colony be; and.they are hdreby empooered to bring aftions to fpecia cotirts-for the rocovery of. anyfrum or
fums of-money due nd payabie'to, them for real ,eilates, goods, effeas i
6" things by thfm fold at public vendue, upon the buyer's neglecting or
refni, ng.to pay tfr the fame ai the time in 'the, conditions of fale let
. .
. . . .. .. .
; : .
- ) 1,
' •'.
fo rth . ' '
And be it further ena&ed, that if any vendue-mafter fisall negle& or
regufe to pay'unto any'peifon, lioilhall have piut -dny real, eftare, gobds
widres, dffecas,'"or things whatfoever, into his hands, to be fold at, public
vendue the money arifing froms 'fuch fale (provided he hath received the
fame) orif -biehave not received the fame, if he fliall negle& oi reflufe
zo'cal4 -a fpecial-court for:the recovery thereof, for the fpace of fifteen
day, after the timeof paymeint mentiooed in the conditions of. fale,' and'
6oth not .ufe-his utmoft fpeed-and. diligence for recovering, fuc money,
then it fhall be lawful for any perfon, who put fuich real eftate; goods,
wares; effie§ or things,, whatfuever, into' ftseh vendue-rhafter's hand,
to'f, fuch vendue-Maqr. ata fpecial court, in like manner, and to
have the fame remedy 'to all intents and purpofes, againft fuch vendue"
fssafter, as he bath by law againft the buyer,
A

nA

SUPREME COURT

of the United States.

317

the general affembly, to affirm a judgment; but if they refufe 1706t
to t[erfere upon any petition, is not the refufal, virtually, an
affirmance of the judgment, of which the petition complains ?
1f then, the powers of a court are thus vefted in the general
affembly, mere abftra& confiderations of policy, cannot be allowed, judicially, to obltru& or defeat their exercife.
. And if the general affembly is a court, its jurifdi&ion is
clearly of a common law defcription; in the nature of a writ of
error, to revife and correa the decifions of inferior cormnon
law courts.
3. The
And be it further enaaed, that the feveral Sheriffs in this Colony and

theirdeprities, hall have fill power and authority to commence aftions
to fpecial courts for the recovery of any fum or fums of money, from
aiy perfon or perfons for real eftate, goods and chattels, by them at-:
inched and fold at vendue, if the fame be not paid according to the
conditions of fale.
And b it further enatled by the authority aforefaid, that the Sheriffs
of the-feyeral counties in this Colony, or their deputies, or the Town
Sergeant of any town, who (ball return any execution, that is delivered
so tohem, to the court, to which the fame is returnable, fatisfied, and
do not pay the-debt due on ftlch execution to the Plaintiff, or party who
recovered tle judgment, or hall return any execution not fatisficd or
unfatisfied, without having orders from the party whso recovered the
Judgment, for fo doing, or nglefing to make return of any execution
in term time, to wbich-the fame is returnable, or at any particular day
,snentioned in any executiiin for the rpturn theteof, the perfon in whofe
favor any fuch execution'was granted, fkall have full power and authority to call a fpecial cotirt at ary time twenty days after the rifing of the
'court, or time to which fuchexecutioh was retfrnable, for the recovery
of the contents thereot, and that the Sheriffs flhall have the fame power
of calling fpecial courts on their refpeftive deputies wh fbl11 be
guilty
I
in the premifes; or fhall se'gle& todfhis duty.
And be it further enaetcd, that when the Marflial of the court of
Vice-adpniralty in this Colony or his depIty, fhall fell or difpofe of any
goods, wares, merchandize, effects, hr thinigs "vhatfoever, in confequence of anvorder fentence, or decree of faid court, and the conditions of fale fhall not be complied with by the purchaferi ilse Laid Martlhalor his'deputy ihereby empowered to call a fpecial court for the
recov ery df an/'yfum due for goods and m erchandize fo fold ; and flall
be liable to be fued at a fpecial court, in the fame manner as the venduenafltrs'in thiscolony are liable for the money arifing on the fale of fuch
kyods and nerchandize as have been or flhall be fold, any lay(, cuftons;
or utfage, 'd the contrary notwithlanding.
And be it further enatted, that th. dire&ors of all lotteries which are
already, or hail'be granted by'the General Affembly, for rai'fitig money
for public ule, and each of them flhall,
for the w.'ore
fpeedy recovery of
all fuch fums as are o (hall become due for tickets, have power to fue
for the fawe at ipecial courts. 'And that all perfois entitled to a prize or
prizes from any direftor, after demanding payment and a refufal or -negle& of the fame fhall have like power to fue any fuch direator for the
fame, at a fpecial court.
1nd be it further ena&ed, that fpecial courts (hall and may be held,
for the trial of perfons for any breach or breachci, of an at entituled
" an a& to prevent dage-plays and other theatrical entertainments,
,vithin this Colony," and fo the recov-ery of the fines and forfeitures itt
fa.id act cortainea.

318

?r796.
t

CAsEs

ruled and adjudged in the

A. The a& of Congrefs provides, that the removal of a caufe
from a State Court, in the fpecified cafes, fhould only be
-- from a final judgment or decree in any fuit, in the higheft
Court of law or equity, of a flate, in which a dedfion in thefuit
'couldhe had." Now, Olney might, by petition, have obtained
from the geneial affembly, a conftruetion on the adl of Congrefs, which he pleaded in bar to the a&ion brought againff
him. The name or title of the officer, who attefis the procefs
cannot be material ;-whoever was the prefiding magifirate,
when the general affembly fat as a court*, might authenticate
the citation, or it might 1e granted by a Judge of the Supreme
Court. Suppofe, indeed, that the judgment were to be affirmed here, Olney might fRill petition the Legiflature, and obtain a
reverfal and new trial; unlefs it can be maintained that the
decifron of this court will work a repeal of the law of Rhode
I/land.
The caufe was held under advifement, till the 8th of Auguf,
when the CHIEF JUSTIcE delivered the following decifion on
dhe point lafi argued.
BY T14E COURT :-We are clearly of opinionthat the Superior Court of Rhode Ifland, on whofe judgment this writ of
error is brought, is the higheft court of law of that flate, within
the meaning of the 25th fe~Lion of the judicial a&. The general afl m bly might fet afide, but they coild not make, a
decifion.
The CHIEF JUSTICE then delivered the opinion of the
court on the firft point; in confequence of which, the judgment ot the fuperior court of Rhode ]Iand, was affirmed.
1I ftEDELL, )/uflhce. To fhew, that, in the cafe of Petitions, refpecting
,he Jiidicial proceedings of inferior Courts, the General Affembly does
not act as a Legiflature, it may be obferved, .that both Houfes then fit
in one room, as one body; but when engaged in making laws, the H oufes fit in feparatc rooms, asdiftinct bodies.

