SUPR.EME COURT

of the United States.
1796.

HILLS et al.

verfus Ross.

HIS. caufe came again before the court (fee Ant.p. 184)
and after a difcuffion upon the merits, it became a que ftion, whether there had been a regular appearance of the parties to the fuit below ? The libel was filed by the Britih Conful, on behalf of W/alter Rofs, againft Hills, May and J/'oodbridge (who formed a partnerfhlp in Charlelon, under that
firm) and J7ohn Miller. The plea was headed, 11the plea of
Ebenezer Hills, one of the company of Hills, May, and Woodbridge, in behalf of himfelf and his faid copartners, who are'
made Defendants in the libel of Walter Rofs ;" and concluded
with praying, " on the behalf aforefaid, to be difmiffed, as far
as refpeffs the faid Hills, May and Woodbridge." The replication regarded the plea of Hill, as the plea of all the company;
and the rejoinder was figned by " 7ofeph Glay, junior, Pro&or
for the Defendants." The decree below was againft all the
Defendants, and the writ of error was ifflued out in all their
names; but there was evidence on the record, that May had
been in Europe, during the whole of the pr6ceeding, and no
warrant of attorney, or other authority, to appear for him,
was produced.
Ingerfoll, contended, for the Plaintiffs in'error, that partners had not power to appear for each other to fuits; and
that, in fac, nothing appeared on the record to fhew that they
had done fo, on the prefent occafion.
: Tilgbman, on the contrary, relied upon the rejoinder, where
the Protor flates himfelf to be employed by all the Defendants ;
and infifted, that his authority could not be denied, or examined, particularly in this flage of the caufe, and in this form of
On
objeffion.*

T

* IREDELL, yufihe.

The doubt Is, whether in a

cafe like the prefent,

gne partner can atthorife a pro&or to appear for the whole company?

reASE) "'ullice. This court cannot affirm the decree, againf perfona
who were not before the court that pronounced it ; and the record muft

hew, that they aftually did appear. A bare implication, the titling of

the plea, or a general ftatement, that one of the partners afts on behalf
of them all, is not fuffieient: For) though partners, in a courfe of-

trade, may bind each other ; they cannot compel each other to appear
to.#uits, nor undertake to reprefent each otherin courts of law. What,

however, is the legal effea of an appearance by a Prodlor, an officer oe'
tlsq court, is another ground that merits cunfidcratian.

332
1796.

CASES

ruled and adjudged in the

On the iith of A4uguf,,the CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the
of the COURT, that, in the prefent cafe, there was a
fufficient legal appearance of all the Defendants.
On the rierits, it appeared, that the Plaintiffs in error, had
direded to be fold, certain prize cargoes, captured by Captains
Talbot and Ballard, under the circumifances, ifated in the cafe
of 7anfen verfus Talbot, ant. p. 133; and that, after notice of
the claims filed by the owners of the priies, they had received and paid over the proceeds to the captors: but, in fo doing,
they had a&ted merely as commercial agents, without any fhare
in the ownerfhip of the privateers, or any participation in the
dire&ion or emoluments of iheir illicit cruizing. The principal queftions, therefore, were, Ift. Whether, in point of
fa$A, the Plaintiffs had notice of the claims of the original owners of the prizes ? And 2d. Whether, after paying over the
proceeds of the cargoes, they were refponfible to the claimants for any thing, and for how much ?
BY THE COURT : It appears, that the damages have been
affeflfd in the courts below, in relation to the value of the
goods that were captured : but the Plaintiffs in error were not
trefpaffers ab initio ; and, a&ing only as agents, they thould
be made anfwerable for no more than adually came into their
hands. The accounts of fales are regularly colle&ed and annexed to the record. We are, therefore, at no lofs for a criterion : And we think that the decree fhould be fo modified,
as to charge them with the amount of fales, after deduing the
duties on the goods, if the duties were paid by them.

Sopinion

The Decree was in the following words:-ORDERED,

That the decree of the Circuit Court for Georgia diftri&, pronounced on the 5th of May, 1795, be reverfed, fo far as the
fame refpeids the faid Hills, May and Woodbridge ; and it is
further ordered, that the faid Hills, May and Woodbridge,
pay to the laid falter Rofs, thirty-two thoufand and ninety
dollars and fifty-eight cents, the net amount of the fales of the
cargo of the faid fl,ip, and five thoufand fix hundred and five
dollars arid twelve cents, interefc thereon, from the 6th day of
.*une 1794, to the twelfth day of 4ugul 1796, making together the hiun of thirtv-feven thoufand fix hundred and ninety-.
five dollars and feventy cents, and that the faid Rills, May and
u aoodridge,
do pay the cus of fuit and a fpecial mandat, &c.
DEL

