SUPREMr CoURT of the' Un.Ied States.

iegifative R, it is maintained and juftified by'the ancient and .798.
uniforim pra&ice of the ftaie of Conneaicut.
JUrDGMEN'T i7

~e.

WILsON verfus DANIEL.'

i'.RROR from the. Circuit Court of T'irgna.. O

he re-

turn of the recdrd, it appeared, that the Diftia& Judge

qad-endorfedthe following fiat on the petition and aflignment

of ,errors; prefented. by the Plaintiff in error: "tLet a writ o(
"error and fu~perfedeas ifluie agreeably to the prayer of the petition, on the petitioner's entering inito bond with fecurity
in the penalty of. 3,66o dollars,.conditioned aufual in fuch
U

cafe.

CYRUS

GRIFFIN.",

A writ of error accordingly

iffued; but, it would feem, that only a copy of the writ was
tranfmitted with the record, (,to Which the feal of the Circuiit
Court was ,affixed, though the writ itfelf was not faid to be
under the feal of the Court) and the copy was fignied by
William Mch-Jhall, clerk," who idded in the margin the
following memorandum, in his own hand writing, not fubfcribed by the Judge: " Allowed by Cyrus Grifin, Efq. Judge
"1of the Middle Circuit in the, Virginia Diftrift." The original citation to the defendant in error was, like.vife; bmitted,
and only a copy, accompanied the record, with an alidavit fubjoined, that the deponent, " did on the 24th of Sept. 1796,
11deliver to Thomas Daniel within named, a citation whereof
Th~re w~is no certificate of the
" the above is a true copy."
judge, or clerk of the court, that the record was returned in
obedience to the writ, though 'at the end of the paper, put'porting to be the record, the clerk fubjoined the following minute: "Copy.

VoL. Iii.

Teflji, Wi/liam Marhall,clerk."

F ff

43
Jr798.,
.'%.

. ruled an" adjudged in the"
'

InFebruary term '797,

E. Tilghman, for'the DMenddntin

error, objed-ed to the return of the writ, that it w's notfaid'

to be iflued under the (eal of the court; that the feal affixed to
the record was not flated to have been affixed by order of the
court; hdt th" original writ was not tranfmitted; that the
paper purporting to be a citation, being a mere copy, did not
appear from the fianature, or any other proof, to have been figned by the Judge, which the adt of Congrefs exprefsly requires ;
I
22. p. 62. and that there was not even any certificate
2ol.f.
of the clerk of the couit, that the entire record had been anrexed and tranfmitted with the copy of the'writ of error.
Lee (the Attorney General,) and Ingerfoll, anfwered, that
the I)Iftrit Judge had, in effed, allowed the writ of error, by
diredin, it to iffue, when fecurity was given ; that the feal
being, adlually affixed, it was unncceffary.to flate that the writ
was under the (cal of the court; tat'the feal implies and authenticates the faf, that the citation had been figned, as well as the
writ of error allowed, by the Judge; and that the clerk having
afferted that the proceedings tranfmitted were a copy, it muft
be prtfu ried to be an entife copy'of the re'ord, 'unlefs dirniation is alledged.
.
But THE COURT were clearly of ol'inion, that the verificatiori of the record was defedlve; and that they. could not, con-

fiftently with the judicial ad, difpenfe with a return of the o,riginal citation, fubfcribed -by the Judge himfelf...
The 'caufe was, theni .continued, upon an agreement;be"tween the counlel, that the Defendant in errbr might-either argue i't upon the record, in its 'prefent tate ; or altedge- in 'dimintiion of the record, and iffue a certiorari. The latter
mode was adopted; arid'th-e diminution ,illedged was, that
" there is not certified the judgment of the faid Circuit Court,
'rendered on infpcedion of the.recdrd of a Diftridft Court, of the
-commonwealth of Virginia, held in the town of Dumfries,
avaeding to the faid Thomas Daniel his 6ofts-againft 7ohn

•Holh'ngfivo th, if/il'iam Merle and William Miller,- on'the
difinifioi-ir f a certain attachment by them- againft him'fued
.forth,' whikh record of the Ciid Difiridt Court,' is ftated in the
declaration of the faid Thomas Daniel, filed in the laid Circuit
'Court, and is ayain ftatedin the replication of the faid Thomas
Daniel, in the (aid Circuit Court, with an averment, that he
was reedy to verify the f1me, by a tran(cript thereof, certified
-under the hand of a proper officer; to which (aid replication,
-. e faild Wl'itliam [Fifon, in the faid Circuit Court, rejoined,
that there wag no fuch record."
The clerk'o theCircuit Court
returned the certiorari, with a certificate indorfed, " that there
is not remai.aing on the rolls and recordF, the judgacnr of the
" faid

SUPREIAE COURT of the United States.
cc fid Circuit Court, on the infpe&ion of the tranfcript of the

4c record of the DifiridS Court of Dumfries, awarding the E'id k

ccThomas Daniel, his coats againft 7ohn Hollingfworth and
ccothers, on the difmiffion of a certain attachment againif him
It by theml profecutel.; nor did the faid Circuit Court ever .enIt ter up their judgment thereon."
The circumfances, which now beca'ie material on the record, were as follow: It appeared by the declaration, that an
a6tion of debt was brought int*the Circuit Court, by "homas
Daniel, a Britijh fiubje&, againff William IV'lfon and others,
upon a bond dated the irth'of Otober 1791, f.ar the penal
fum of£.6o,ooo; that the bond had been taken, as an indemnity, from the Defendants below, in an at.achment brouvht by
them againft the Plaintiff in a State' Court; and that the attachment was difmifled by the Court, and the Plaintiffs adjudged to pay the cofils. The prefent Plaintiff laid his dam'
ges, in confequence of he attachment, at .20o,cco.
The fole Defendant below, WFilliam ffiyfn, (the other Defendants being dead, or not being arrefted on the procef )
pleaded, i. performance of the condition of the Bond ; 2. that
no coils had been awarded to the Plaintiff below, in the attachment fuit, nor had any damages been recovered by him againif
the parties, for fuing out the attachment.
The Plaintiff below replied--t. That the Deendant had
not performed the condition of the Bond.-2. That the Court
did award cofts in the attachment fuit to the Plaintiff below,
Which he was ready to verify by a tranfcript of tl'; record. And
3. The Plaintiff demurred tofo much of the Defendant's plea,
as refpeas Damages.
The Defendant below rejoined,, r. As to the judgment for
coffs in the attachment fuit, nultiel record. And, 2. as to
the replication upon the quefiion of damages, joinder in demnurrer.
The Record then proceeds': " The parties by their Attorccnies, being fully heard, it feems to the Court that the fuid
. fecond plea of the Defendant, and the matter th.erein contain" ed, are not fufficient in law to-bar the Plaintiff from having
and maintaining his a&ion againfi the faid Defendant :
it is confidered, that judgment be entered for
"c Therefore,
cc the Plaintiff on his demurrer to that plea."
" And at another day, to wit, &c. came the parties, &-.
ccAnd thereupon alfo came a Jury, &c. And now, &c. the
dc Jury aforefaid returned into Court, and, byought in their
We of the Jury fi.nd for the
cc verdid in thefe words :-"
'€ Plaintiff the Debt in the Declaration mentioned to be dif-'
'. charged by the payment of i8oo Dollars damfages."
'5 Thereforq.

403
1798.

404

1798,

CASF' ruled and adjudged in the

Ft Therefore, it is confidered by the Court, that the Plaintii!
recover againif the Defendant £6oooo' of the value of,
Dollars, his debt aforelai'd, and his coils by him
' 200,oo
An4 the faid De" about his fuit in 'this behalf expended.
.' fendant'in mercy, &c. But the Judgment is to be difcharg-.
55ed by the payment of the faid igoo Dollars and the coils."
At the prefent Term, as 'well as'in'February Term 1797,
two queftions were made and argued, independent of the ob-'
jeaion to the form of iffuing -and 'returning the 'Vrit of
Error;.'.
Whether the judgment below was fo defe~ive,
that a 'Writ of Error would not lie on it, inafmuch as nojudgment was giyen upon'the plea of nul fiel record. 2. Whether
he Supreijie Court had jurifdiaion of the Caufe, inafmuch as
the real and operative jidgment of the. Circuit Court was only
for 18oo Dollars;'and the Judicial A& provides, that there
Thali be no removal of4 a civ'il aion from the Circuit Court
into the Supreme Court, unlefs the matter in difpute exceeds
zDoFars.
J'.ol fec. 22, p. 62.
he
or value of 2ooo
our
On the firi point no opinion was given by the Court at the
former argument; but, on the fecond point, CHASE, PATERSON, and CusHiNG, Jzices, concrre'd in 'confidering the
judgment as a judLgment at common law, for the penalty of the
"-

Bond, and, therefore, that the Court had j'urifdiatioo:'W ILSON
.7z9Jice, diffented ; 'and IREDELL ),uJice, ('wh. had preiid-

ed in the Circuit Court) declined taking apart in theldecifion.
Tho fecond point was, however, re-argued, at the inlance of
E. Tilghmai, who was anfwered by Lee and Ingerfoll; and the

opinion of the Court was riven to the following effec.'
ELSWORTH, Chief 7ufice. There' h've been two exceptionstaken tothe record inithe prefeit cafe : i. 'Fhat thejUdg2
ment of the inferior Court isfodefe&ivc, th4t a Writ of Error
will not lie upon it. It is evident, howeier, that the judgment is
not merely inierlocut6ry; but is in its nature final, and goes to
the whole'merits of the cafe. 'Though inperfe6t and informal,
it is a judgment ui which an execultion c old iffue ; 'and as
the Defendant below might be thus injured by' it, we are unaititnoufly of opinion, that he is eptitled'to a WVrit of Error.
z. The fecond exception is, that the'judgment is'not for a
fum of fufficient magnitude to' give jurifdi6fionto this Court.
On this'excepti6n there eXifts a diIverfity'of fentiment but it ig
the prevailing in1ion, thaat we are 'not t'o'regard the' verdi,.t,
or judgment, as the rul'e for' afcertaining the value of the matter
in difpute between 'the parti s. By the judicial Statute, it is
provided that certain decifions of the Circuit Courts, in c1riai*
Cafes'
. Se

Dali. 35

Cafes temp. H~rd. s,

SUPREME COURT

of the United States.

x~q8.
cafes, may be reverfed on'a Writ'of Error, in the Supreme
Court' but it is'declared that the matter, in difpute muf ekceed
the fum or value of ,oos Dollars.* To afcertain,.then, ihe
matter in difpute, we muft recur to the foundation of the ori-,
ginal controverfy-to the matter in dipute when the aaibn"
wa s infituted. The defcriptive words of the law point em-.
phatically to this criterion ; and in common underflanding the'
thing" de.nanded (as in the prefent inftance the penalty of a
Bond) and not the thing found, cohflitutes ihe matter in difpute between the parties.
The conflruffion, 'which isthus given, not only comports
with every word in the law, but enables us to avoid an inconvenience, which would otherwife affe& the impartial adminifiration of juftice. For, if the'fum, or value, found by a verwas confidered' as the rule! to afcertain the magnitude of
dilc',
the matter in difpute, then, "whenever lefs than zooo dollars
was found, a'Defendant could have'no relief againit the moferroneous and injr ious judgment, though the Plaintiff would
have a right to a removal and revifion of the caufe, his demand
(which is alone to govern him) being for more than 2ooo dolt
jars. It is not to be prefumed that the Legiflature intended to
give any party fuch an advantage over his antagonift; and it
ought to be avoided, as it may be avoided, by the fair and reafonable interpretation, which has been pronounced,
I differ from the opinion, which is enIREDELL, Juflice.
tertained by a majority of the Court on the fecond exception ;
though, if the merits of the caufe had been involved, I fhould
hare declined exprefling my fentiments. As, however, the
queftion is a general queftion of conftruffion, and is of
great importance, I think it a duty, brieflyi to affign the reafons of my diffent.
Th true 'rotfve for introducing the provifion, which is
Under confideration, into the judicial a&, is evident. When
the Legiflature allowed a Writ of Error to the Supreme Court,
it was confidered, that the Court was held permanently at the
eat of the National Goyernment, remote from many parts of
the Unio; and that it Would be inconvenient and, oppreflive
to bing fuitors hither for obje&s of fmall importance. Hence,
it was provided, that unlefs the matter in difpute exceeded the
fum,' or value, of 2oco dollars, a Writ of Error flould not be
iffued.' But the matter in difpute here meant, is the matter in
difpute on the Writ of Error. In the original fuit, indeed, I
agree, that the demand of the'party furnifhes the rule of valuation ; but the Writ of Error is of the nature of a new fuit ; and
"vhatever may have been formerly the queftion on the merits,
than
if we think the Plaintiff- is not entitled to recover onore 1i80,

V06
Y.798.

CAsMs ruled and adjudged in the

i8oo dollars, the Court has not jurifdi&ion of a caufe of fuch
,value,and cannot, 6f courfe,' pronounce a judgment in it.
Atcommon:law,'indeed, the penalty of 'the. boid was alone
regarded ; and 'th)ugh, in a' cafe like the prefent, only one
fhilling damiages fhruld be given by the Jury, the 'judgment at
common law w0l le rendered for the whole penalty; fo that
the fuffering party would be obliged to refort to a Court of
Equity for relief. The Legiflature, however, has deemed it
expedient to guard againif the rnifchief, and, at the fame time,
to prevent a circuity of aaion, 'by iripowering the common
law Courts to render judgment, . in caufes brought to recover
the forfeiture annexed to any articles of agreement, covenant,
bond, or other fpecialty, for fo much as is due, according to
equity. From the time of paffing the at, "thePlaintiff, can
recover no more under the penalty of the bondtthan the damages
affeffed, or adjudged ; and if a Court of common law is thus
empowered to regard the matter in difpute, independent of the,
flri& common law forfeiture of the penalty, this dught to be
deemed, to every legal intent, the proper mrIde of fettlinig and
afcertaining the value, -or amount, to which the words' f the,
law fhall beappliedin the care of a W rit of'Error.
Theohjeffion, which feemed, principally, to operate againf.
this do&rine, in the mind of the Court, as well as of the Bar,
vas: its tendency to entitle one parry to a Writ 'of Error, and
to exclude the other : but the objefion cannot arife in this
cafe, as both parties would be alike eftopped by the infufficiency
A new law, however, of a (cope fo extenfive,
of the Cum.
cannot be expefed to provide for every poffible cafe ; and .it is
no reafon why a plain provifion flould notoperate, that another
provifion may be neceflry to avoid an inconvenience, or to
eflablifh equality between the parties.
I mufi, therefore, repeat my opinion, that although the Plaintiff's demand is to be regarded in the original'a6ion ; vet, that
the rum aaually rendered by the Judgment, is to fur'nifh the
rule for fixing the matter in difpute upon a Writ of Error.
And the um a&ually rendered, being lefs than 2ooo dollars'
the Court cannot, I think, exercif.- a jurifdiaSion in the prefent cau(:!.
CI-ASF, 7uflice. On the firft exception to this record,'tere
is no diverfity of opinion ; and 1, alro, agree with the trajo-rity of the Court in the decifion upon the fccond exception,
thoueh for reafons different fromthofe thathave been afligned."
This is a queflion of jurifdition ; and the law vefts the
jurifdifion, if the matter in difpute between the parties exceeds,
the fum, or value, of 200o dollars. Whenever the ojeaion
arifls on the amounit of the matter in difpute, it is not, in my.
opiAnIo
.

SUPREMi"COURT "of 'the

Uiited StateY.'

407

opinion, to be iettled here, .by .vh't "'aippears. onth'6 Writ 6f i 7 98.
Error, but it is tb be fettled in, the infrior Court,accolrdiigtit
the circumftances appearing there,. in each particular'*. afe.
There is no common, uniform, rule that can be appliedbthe
fubje&. I do not think, that the demand of the Plaintiff
bught to be made the fole criterion ; for, then, every Plaintiff might entitle himfelf, in e,ery cafe, to a Writ of Erroi, by
laying his dama,es pr6*prtionally high : and I think that the
amount rendered by the judgment would be found, in the far
greater number of cafes, to be th.e true rule. It muff be.ac-'
kriowledged, howeier, that in adions of .tort,,or trefpafs, from.i
the nature of the fuits, the damages laid in the declaratibn, af:ford the only pradficable tefl of the value of the con'oVeify..
Enquiring, therefore, what was in difpute in the prefefit cafe,
we find, that the adion was brought on a bond, with a condition for performing two adts, and the non-performance of both
a6ts conftitutes the breach affigned. The record is diforted by
great irregularities; but every part of the pleadings, verdi6t,
and judgment, that is not conformable to the common law, I
rejedt as not belonging to the cafe, which is neither founded on
the ftatute of 8 & 9 T. 3. c. io. nor on the ad of the Affembly
of Airginia. Confidered, therefore, as an adion at common law,
the penalty is forfeited on the non- performance of either of the
adts, which are the fubjed of the condition. The judgment of
the Court is rendered for that penalty ; and though it is- flated,
that the judgment (hall be difcharged, on payment of a fmaller
fum, fuch a (tipulation is inconfiftent with the nature 'of a common law judgment; it muff be treated as mere furplufage; and
in this view of the cafe, I am of opinion that the Court has jurifdi tion.
ELSWORTH, Chief _J7ijice. I will repeat and explain one
exprefion, which was ufed in delivering the opinion of the
Court, and which feems to have been mifunderftood.
It was not intended to fay, that on every fuch queflion ofjtirifdidion, the demand of the Plaintiff is alone to be regarded ;
but that the value of the thing put in demand furnifhed the rule.
The nature of the cafe muff certainly guide the judgment ot
the Court; and whenever the law makes a rule, that rule muff
be purfued. Thus, in an adion of debt on a bond for (Ioo, the
principal and intereft are put in demand, and the Plaintiff can
recover no more, though he may lay his damages at "IOOOO.
The form of the adion, therefore, gives in that cafe the legal
rule. But in an ation of trefpafs, or affault and battery, where
the law prefcribes no limitation as to the amount to be recovered, and the Plaintiff has a right to efimate his damages at any
fum, the damage flated in the declaration is the thirg put inl
dem and

408

CXSEs rtled -and adjudged in the

1798, de tiand, and prefents theonly crtiterion, to which, from the na%o-y-,dtureof the ation, we can retort in fettlin'g the queftion of jurifdition.
The prop'ofition then is fimply this Wherethe law gies no
iule, the demand of thePlaintiff muff furnifh one ; but where
th'e law gives the rule, the legal' caufe of adtion,
I and iot the
Plaintiff's demand, muft be regarded.
The objeaions over-ruled, and
JUDGMENT-

affirmed.*

0 Befidei tile exceptions above t'ated, feveral errors were affigned;
which had been argued at a former term, in the abfence of the Chiefjaf-,

tiec. The Court, 'after aeciding the queftion.ofjurifdiainn, called on
zhICout fel to proceed in the. argument on thofe erro, s - but E. Tilghman,

bflrved, that ihe Court had been fo evideutly againfl h im, that he would

not jrefs the fu bJie&
further.'

February

