188

CASEs ruled and adjudged in the

796. might be taken on both fides, and the whole matter of fa&, as'
Swell as the law, brought before the Supreme Court of the United States) as upon an, appeal.

M'DONOUGH, verfius DANNERY, an.d the Ship MARY FORD.

THi-IIS was a writ of error to remove the proceedings and
kMfdecree from the Circuit Court, for the Diftrid of
finchufetts ; and, the recordbeing returned, exhibited the following fa&6s :-On the 4 th of November, 1794, the owners
and crew of the fhip George, filed a libel in the Diftri6t
Court of Maj/'ahufetts, in which they fEt forth,
That the Taid fliip George was an Anerican veffel, owned
and n'avigated by American citizens, loa -d with a very valuable cargo, principally on -freight, ad bound from FirginiaforRotterdain ; and that on the fecond day of Oober laft, on the
high feas, in latitude 44 and longitude 4oo, they fell in with
the fhip Mary Ford, which they found utterly deferted, and
abandoned, without any perfon on board, and in a moft periions (tate" That the captain and crew of the faid fhip George,
took poffeffion of the Mary Ford, and with the intention of
faving the faid fhip and her cargo, the Mate, and three of the
lhiJ crew, entered on board the Mary Ford, and at great peril
of their lives, and fufering great haidfliip, with the affiftance
of two men from a filhing veffel, whom they hired, brought
her into the port of Bojion ; whereupon they, pray that the faid
Ihip and cargo, may be adjudged to them,
On the 5th of November, ]794, Thomas M'Donnough, Efql.
Confu] ,'f his Britannic Majetty, for the (fates of Maffachufetts,
RPhde Jfiand, Conneictut and New Hamp/hire, filed a claim
and fuggefted, that the
qfafachvfeitt,
in the 1iami.S Court of
IhiP 1'lary Ford, alnd her cargo, at the time fhe was taken'
poffeflion of by the crew of the Ihip George, was, and now is,
owned by certain merchants, fubjeacs of his faid BritannicMajeffty, and prayed that the fame might be delivered to him, in
'bchalf of fid owners, on the payment of a reafonable falvage,
or,
*

Seethe fame cafe pofl

SUPREME COURT of

the United States.

or, if fold, that the proceeds thereof might be delivered to him, 1796.
in behalfof faid owners, dedudting therefrom fuch falvage, with .
cofts and charges.
On the 2J of December, 1794, 7. B. Thomas Dannery,
Citizen and Co'nful of the French Republic, refident at B eJon,
in behalf of faid Republic, and the citizensthercof immediately concerned, likewife filed a claim for the faid fhip Mary
Ford,, and her cargo; and fitggeaed, that the fAid fliip and her
cargo, on the twenty-eighth day of Settember laf, were the
property of fome of the fumbjeds of the King of Great Britain;
and afterwards, on the fame day, between two and three o'clock,
in the afternoon, on the high feas, were attacked, fubdued, and
taken by a fquadron of fhips,. to wit, the Filaburtier,Charant,
Poilion, Semiellante, Jean Bart, and Ranger, all in the public fervice of and belonging to the French Republic, commanded by Commodore'//i/ Maudarine; and that the French
Republic, and all the citizens thereof, wcre then, and frill are,
at open war with the King of Great Britain, and all his fubjeds ; and that fiome of the feamen of raid fqu'adiron, entered
on board the faid fhip Mary Ford, took compleat and entire
poffeflion of her, and took and brought away the Britijh captin and feamen of.faid flip, and frill hold them prifoners of
war; and that they took and brought away the papers belonging to her;-by all which, and the laws of nations, the faid
ihip Mary Ford, and her cargo, became the property of the
French Republic and the captors, by the rights of war.
The faid ]aff mentioned claimant further fugg-fted, that afterwards, on the twefity-ninth day of the fame September,
aboutthree o'clock in the afternoon, the faid fhip and her cargo, by order ot the Commodore of faid fquadron, from an apprehenfion of weakening his force, were left at tea from neceffity. The faid Conful prays a reftoration of the faid (hip and
carge, to be adjudged to him, to th- ufe of the French Republic, on his paying reafonable falvage, with co.is and charges, or that the faid (hip and cargo may be decreed to be fold
to the ufe of the French Republic, and her citizens concerned,
after paying fuch falvage, cofts and charges.
The fadfs which appear in evidence in this cafe are, that the
Mary Ford and lhr cargo were, before the twenty eighth day
of September, the property of certain Britifh fUbjed ; that fhe
was bound on a voyage from the WY?7t Indies to London ;_ that,
on that day fhe was attacked on the high teas by the fquadron
mentioned in the claim of the Conful of the French Republic, or
one of the thips belonging to the fame to which 'he ftruck;
that an Officer and fome of the crew of one or more of the fhips
of faid.fquadron entered on*board, took out her Captain and all
her crew, and the greateft part of the, (hip's papers, and that (he
failed

1(o

CASEs

ruled and adjudged in the

796. failed forne time, probably more than twenty four hours, with
f-,j faid French crew on board her, in company with faid fquadron,
and was then left by order of the Commander of faid fqua\Iron,,
who directed her to be burnt ; that fome attempts were made
unfuccefffully to effe6l this purpofe ; -that feveral .Britihveffels had been captured and manned by faid fquadron, andmany
of the people of the quadron were fick, and incapable from
that caufe to do duty ; -that from an apprehenfion of weakening his force, the 'faid Commander had given the faid orders ;
that the faid fhip George, met with the faid Mary Ford at the
time and place mentioned in the Libel, and brought her and
her cargo into the harbour of Bo/fon under the circumfiances
fet forth in the Libel ; - The fhip Mary Ford and her cargo
have been fold by order of the Court, and with the. confent of
all parties.
After argument, LowEL, Judge of the Diftricft, delivered
the opinion of the court, firt recapitulating the fa6ls above

tated.
11BY THE COURT. The Libellants have prayed, that the
whole of the fhip and cargo fhould'be decreed to their ufe.
There have been times in the hil}ory of nations, i-n which veffel and goods, left by neceffity on the high feas, have been dccreed the property of the finders; and where wrecks on the
fhore have been with-held from the original proprietors, by
the fovereigns of the country, or fome great man, on whofe
lands they have happened to be caft: But in very, earlytimes,
they have, in both cafes, been confidered as the property 'of
the original owner. Sreveral pf the Roman Emperors made
their edits and decrees, for the prefervation of fuch property,
.nd the reftiration of it; Ind for a long time, the law of nations has been fettled on principles confonant to juftice and humanity, in favour of the unfortunate proprietors; and the
perfons who have found and faved the property, have been

compenhitcd by fiuch part thereof, or fuch pecuniary fatisfaction, -s the laws of paiticulat States have fpecially provided,
or, in want of fuch prdvifion, (as the writers on the law of nations agree) by fuch reward as in the opinion of thofe who, by.
the municipal laws of the country, are to judge,. is equitable
and right. In our country, n9 fpecial rule being eftabliffbed,
this court is to deterfnine what, in fuch cafe, is equitable'and
right.

-The rule in eftimation, which ought, ionmyopinion, to

he adopted, would be.to give, if poflible, to afcertain it, fuch
componfation or reward as would be fufficient inducen'ent to
eni yage reafonable peifons, to encountei tle peril .and, expence
of the undertaking ; what this may b-, muff, in almott every

cafe, depend on the efltimation which the Judge, who -is to decide, may make .of the expcnfe, the labour, the peril, and the
a6tua

SUPREME' COURT of the United States.

"aaual fuffering of thofe, by whofe exertions the property is faved. i196.
And, as feveral of the moi important of thefe are really mental,
to which no meafure of weight or capacity can be actually applied, it is probable, different perfons would vary confiderably
in their eftimation of them. it may,. therefore, bea thing to be
wi(hed, that every nation would make, at leaft,.fome general
rules for determining fuch cafes: but as there are none eflablifhed in this country, 1 am bound to-exercife my ownjudgment, in determining what is a juft and equitable compenfation.
Admiralty courts having the thing aved under their controul, may either adjudge a portion of fuch thing to the perfons
who have faved it, or a (urn of money to be paid by the proprietor, or from the produce of the thing fold. And in either
cafe, the fame principle ought to operate, and fuch parts of the
thing faved, or fum of money, be decreed to thofe who fave it,
as may fully compenfate them, and will Encourage others to
like efforts. In this cafe, the Mary Ford, when found, was at
the mercy of the feas, her fails and rigging partly taken away
or loft; very little or no provifions on board her; the George
was bound on a foreign voyage, with a valuable cargo, and it
does not appear that fhe had any fupernumerary hands ; thofe
who undertook to c;rry her into port, found her greatly difabled and difficult to manage ; the rifque of their lives muff have
been confiderable, and their exertions great. I think few cafes
will happen, when the compenfation ought to be higher.
" Under all circumftances, therefore, 1 am of opinion, that one
thirdpart of the grofs proceeds of the value, ought to be paid
to the owners and crew of the Aip George, for falvage of the

faid (hip Mary Ford and her cargo, and in full compenfation
of their fervices, peril and expenfes, in the following proportions which have been fince fettled by three merchants, named
by them, and appointed by the court, viz.-to the owners of the
George, nine thoufandfive hundred and eighty dollars, and twenry-eight cents, being two third parts of the (um decreed for the
owners of the George and her crew, after deducting three hundredand feventy dollars andforty-two cents,for the owners, for

expenfes incurred and paid by them, on the joint account of the
owners and the crew-and the remaining one third, viz. four
thoufand feven hundred and ninety dollars and fourteen cents,
.to the captain and crew of the George, in the following proportions, viz. to the Captain, eleven hundred and fifty-fix dollars
and twenty cents-Lenuel Fofter, eight hundred and twentyfive dollars and ninety cents-.john Clafin, four hundred and
ninety-five dollats and fifty-four cents-fivefeamen, three hundred and thirty dollars and thirty-fix cents each-one other,
two hundred and eighty-nine dollars and feven cents-the.
cook, two hundred and forty-feven dollars and feventy-feven
cents-

19z
1796.
%

CASs

ruled and adjudged in the

cents-and the boy, one hundred and twenty-three dollars and
eighty-fix cents.
1 The next queftion is, to whom fhall the refidue be decreed ?
To fettle this queftion, paffages have been read from many
books written on the law of nations, and others in which the
municipal regulations, and decifions of feveral nations have
been reported or commented oil; and which have been fuppofed to be applicable to this cafe. The gentlemen who have been
of counfel for the parties, have ingenioufly fupported their refpe~Live claims ; I have, I trufr, carefully perufed their authorities and attended t6 their arguments ;-very few of their authorities appear to me to apply ; their arguments have been
pertinent. I lay out of the cafe, the whole do&rine of po/lliminy, as applied to re-captures, which I confider as depending on
the municipal regulations of States, which every fovereirn has
a right to make, as far, at leaft, as their own citizens only, are
concerned, in fuch manner as may.appear to them bet. Under
this head, though blended by fome writers with the law of nations, are to be placed the regulations made, varioufly however,
by til.e
European nations, and the late Congrefs of the United
Statts, by which the property is divefted from the former owners, by capture, after twenty four hours poffeffion by the enemy ; and all other arbitrary rules, made to fettle queftions of
likenature; alfo, all queftions about total and partial loffes on
policies of infurance.
" I embrace as found doctrine, the principle, that neutral nations ought not to decide refpedting the lawfulnefs or unlawfulnefs of capture, if it appears that the captor, and the nation
from whom the property istaken, are at war with each other,
and the captors or their vendees, are in poffeffion of the property,
five where the territorial rights of the neutral, or the rights of
their citizens, are involved in the queftion ; and that neutrals
are always to take the exifting f/ate of things as right; fo that
if either of the powers at war, or thofe to whom they have
transferred it, are in poe.ifon of a thing taken from their ene-

my in war, neutralpowers are to fuppofi then lawfully poFjfed,
and ought not to enquire how long, or under what circumfances, they have pofteffied them. To interfere and decide in
fuch cafes, muft neceffarily imply a partiality contrary to the
idea of neutrality ; for, they mull either give greaterfirmnefis to
the capture by deciding it to he lawful, or weaken and render it
lefifrecure, by determining itto be unlawful. Neither are neutral powers to give aid to either party, by condu6ting their
prizes for them, when they are too weak to prote 6 t and condudt them.
Thefe principles, I think, will ferve as a guide to a decifion
i this caf.N either of the belligerent powers was in poffellion

SUPREME CouRT of the

United States.

10

ieffion of this property when foind;' - the Briti claimants
fay, it has been their's; -this is admitted by the French claimants ; -

and we have evidence of this fat by the conftrtic-

tion of the (hip which is in our fight, by the cargo on board,
and divers (hips papers which were found with her. The
French claimants fay, we took her in operi war,- we firmly
poffeffled her,-and fbe ought to be reftored to us. The reply in behalf of the Britith claimants is, you did not complete
your capture; you did noi firmly pofefs her ; " you were too

weak, confifh1nt with other views you held more important, to
retain. her. Is it neceffary that we (hould decide thefe queftions between them ?I Shall we try the legality of the capture,
and decide tbe firmnefs of the poff/ion ? Will it nbt be to aid
to make the capture and poffefion firm and legali which is faid
to be incomplete ? The French claimants fay, we were under
apprehenfion of weakening. our force and fb left her -from zeceffity. The veffel had been Britih," of this; there ig no
queftion: did fhe by capture and firm poffelion; according
to the law of nations,-become French ? Of this'therd i's at
leaft a doubt. . On confidering the whole matteti, do' adjudgt4
order,and decree, that or.e thirdpart of the money; arifing from
the fales of the fhip Mary Ford and her cargo, be paid to the
perfons who faved them, in the proportionq before, rentioned:
And that the duties and all other cofts and charges bl." firfl 'dedupted from the other two third parts, and the refidue remain in
Court for the ufe of the Britijh owners of faid fhip and cargo,
or fuch other perfons, who may derive right thereto from them
when the fame fl'all be afcertained in Court. "
From the decree of the Diftrift Judge, fo far only as it refpeds the Britijh owners, the French Conful appealed,-and the
appeal being argued before the Circuit Court, the following
decree was there pronounced, ( Jtdge LOWELL-declining however to give any opinion:)
: "CSIING, Juflice. The court having fully heard the paities
6n the appeal in this cafe, by their counfel , it appears that the

faid fiip Mary Ford and her cargo, being the 15roperty of fom
Britifh fubje~ts, were, on or about the 2Sth day .of September,
A. D. t 79 4, captured on the high feas, by a French fquadron of
(hips, under the command of Commodore [Ml Maudarine, and
were taken into a~tual and quiet poffefion offaid fleet, and fo held
for above twenty-four hours, and were then left on the' high .
feas, without, any hands aboard, after fame unfuccefsfulat-.
tempts, by his order, to burn her, which was in confequened

of many of the people of his fquadron being ick, and incapable
of doing duty, and from an apprehenfion of weakening. his force
in parting with any of his people, to keep on b.6hrd' and to
condu& the faid (hip Mary Ford.
,, That.
'
C .
VOL. IIIL

17964

194

179 6 .
"

..

CMES ruled arid adjudged in the

" Thtt the faid (hip George, metwith-the faid fhlil Mary Ford,
and brought her and her cargo'into the harbour of Boton, as
fet forth in'the libel ; not with intent to aid either party, in the
war fubfifting between the French Republic and the Britijh
nation, but to fave the property from abfolute lofs, or in expe'tation of proper compenfation for the trouble. On which
cafe the operation of the law of natiQns appears to the court
-to be, that by the faid capture, the property became immediately the captor's. The quoftions about firm poffeffion, appearing to relate chiefly, if not only, to cafes ofpoftliminy or
recapture, or to that of a 'neutral vendee; things which 'tis
apprehended have no place in this caufe; 'and about which the
municipal laws and regulations of different countries are very

different.

.

"The property, then, -ii thi$ cafr, becoming the captor's immediately by conqueft, and the:right of war, muff fo continue,
until divefted by recapture,. or by. fome legal means. or.a& to
that effe&.--.And it.
is not conceived, that the abandoning the
fhip from the'occafion ft;ted in the evidence, could amount to
a recapture, fo far as t ifivefc the property in the original
owners,-or prevent the capP.trs from-reclaiining the poffeffion,
when opportnity offered at any time previous to a recapture.
It is, therefore, confidered and decreed BY TH- COURT, That
the decree made in'the Diftria Court, as far only as it decrees,
that the faid-refidue of the faid, two third parts of the money
arifing from the fales of the faid fhip 'AIary Ford and her cargo, remain in court for the ufe, of the .3ritiJh.owners of the
fame fhip and cargo, 6r fich other' perfoos who may derive
right thereto from them, when the fame fhould be afcertained
in court, be, and hereby is,. reverfed. And it is now further
adjudged and decreed BY -rHiS

COURT, That the fame refi-

due of the faid two-third parts of (aid m-Qney, remain in court
for the ufe of the French Republic, and~thofe concerned' in faid
capture."
From this decree of theCircuit Court, the Britifl Conful
appealed; but the appeal being difalinwed, the proceedings
were removed into the Supreme Court by writ of error ; and
the Plaintiff afligned for error the decree in favor of the French
claimants, ad'alfo the difalloviance of his appeal - the defendant,,pleaded in nullo eft erratum, and thereupon iffue was
joined.
Thecaufe was argued on the 4 ,h and qth of FebruaiY, 1796,
by ).. 7Ighman, for the. Plaintiff ia error,' and by Ingerfoll
& Dfio;7ceau, for the 1Defmidant .n,error.
For .tlp pj- Jintiff in error.,two points mere made ; ift. Th.at
the courts,of the United States had no jurifdidion in.thik
cafe: and 2d. That the property of the Brityh owners of
the

Sui-PtEMIF-COuR.T of the United, States.

the Mary Fordi was not fo divefled as to give a perfef right 1796:
to the captors.

if. Point. The court cannot determine on the validity of
the capture between the belligerent powers. In cafes where.
there have been illegal outfits within the jurifdi6tion of the
Unit.ed States ; or where their territorial neutrality and fovereignty have been invaded ; or where their mulicipZl laws
have been violated; the judicial power of the Union will interpofe. But the prefent, is barely a queflion of prize; unconneaed with any incidental or collateral circumflcances, which
juflify a neutral nation in taking cognizance of the caufe.
L e on Capt. 77"
c
2d. Point. The property in a prize, is not fo divefted by
capture, as to givq the captor a full right, until the veffel is
brought into a place of fafety. The Mary Ford was not ina place of fafety; there was ground to entertain a reafonable
hope of recapture; and there muft be a condemnation, in a
court of competent jurifiiion, before the property is conclu-'
fively transferred from the original owner to the captor. Till
that is done, any length of poffefflion will not, of itfelf, furnifh
a title to the prize. Grot. 582. B. 3. c. 6. f 3. Puff 845.
b. 8. c. 6.2f. 2o 2 Hience. b. 2. c. 9.f 202. p. 197. Marten:
L. N. b 8. c. 3"f 1I. p. 197. Jatt.b. 3" f j96. P- 571. Lee
on Capt. 72. It is true, however, that a right of poffeffion,
and an inchoate right of property, were acquired by the capture; but the right of pofifflion being abandoned, it reverted
to the original proprietor.
For the Defendant in error, it was anfwered: ift, That the
court has j urifdiclion ; 2d, That the court muff reffore the fhip
to the poffeffion of the captor, whether the capture was legal
or illegal; for they muff confider every capture made in a
war in form as valid.
ift Point. It is remarkable that the perfon who claims the
exercife of the authority of the court, fhould except to its jurifdiaion; but even by him, it is conceded, that the court may*
exercife a jurifdi&ion on the fubjed matter. This court has
jurifdiaion, if any court of the United States can take cognizance of the controverfy ; and if this court cannot hold plea
of the difpute, it will not be pretended that any other court
may. It is, then, an univerfal rule, without exception, that
whoever pleads to the jurifdifion of a court, muff fhew another competent jurifdidion. DoR. Plac. 234. The only book
read infupport of the exception, (Lee on Capt. 77.),repels the
Appellant's claim ; for it is the principle, and not the mode, of
adjudication, which forms the fubjeat of the chapter referred to.
Lee on Capt. 72. The original proprietor claims ; the vendee
fays that he purchafed from the captor ; and the inference is
that

-

CAsES fuled and adjudged in the
J796, that the Judges cannot decide upon the legality of the prizep
~but muft confider each belligerent party, the proprietor of what,
ht has taken. The general principle is beft exemplified in the
juffificatory memorial on the Silefia loan : the court of the cap'tor is the proper court to decide the queftion of prize, or no
prize ; I Ilagens. p. 487. 490. 496. 505. but ftill the reafon
of the law muff fhew its extent. Not only the reafon of the
rule reftri6ls its operation to the cafes, where the queftion can
be decided by the appropriate court of the captors; but the
theoretical writers, as well as uniform pradftice, demonftrate the
exiftence of fuch a reftriffion. If, likewife, the capture be
made within neutral limits, an exception to the general rule
The
arifes. - Wood. 443. A of Gongrefs of Yune, 179.
regulations effablifhed by the Executive Department, and the
adjudications of this court, concur in the pofition. Another
exception arifes, where neutral property of another nation, or
of our own citizens, has been captured at fea, and is brought
W_,hin our port', Glhf t al.vrfus Befey ant.p. 6.z Wood. 439.
Bink. S. p. 1. I. c. 17. But if the fovereign willprotea
his citizen from injury, he muf, alfo, compel him to do juftice. Now, therefore, as no fubje6t of a neutral State, can
take from the captors the prizes which they have made; with-.
out violating their right of poffieffion; 2" Wood. 455. z Burr.,
693 ; it foilows, that when fuch a cafe happens within our jurif idion, the courts of the United States muff decide between
our citizens and the foreign- captors ; nor can the relief to the
captors be refufed, by the interpofition of a claim on the part
Pf the captured, as original proprietors. The order in which
the claims of captor and captured have been filed, cannot vary
thejurifdiaion of the court ; for, if the captured property is
brought into port by our citizens, forcibly, or charitably, the
jurifdiction muff be the fame, and the queftion of prize will be
'equally
involved,
2d Point. But taking cognizance of the prefent
cafe does
not lead to a decifion of the queffion of prize, or no prize;
for, the court muff confider the capture to be lawful. No neutral power can doubt the validity of a capture made in a public
war. Yatt. B. 3" c. 14. fi 208. 1 [FYood. 125. Jatt. B. 3,
C. 3. f 40. f 190. f 209. f I2. f 229. Grot. B. 3. c. 6. fi
2. Barlem. cb. 7. f !2. 14. 2 Wood. 441. An inchoate
right,' therefore, A right to he pofleflion, a fpecial property, is
enough for the captor: Of his poffeffion, 'however flight, a
neutral power cannot deprive him ; if his enemy were ftill in
puriIiti if he would have been recaptured the next moments
the neutral power cannot interfere with the poffeffion, or, inter-,
. tit. I.
fering, muff reffore it. 2 Burr. 696. 2 Inf. of
eJ.
f 7. Ruth. '594. B. 2. c. 9."
f 17. Dig. B.
tit-'L, 1aw 5"
Gqlle.
-

.

.

SUPRFMI COURT of thd United States,

Colleat. "'urid. I34. 135. In the prefent inftance, the interference was charitable, yet if the veffel had been detained
after payment, or tender of a reafonable falvage, the detainer
would be deemed a trefpaffer; and the rule and remedy muff
be the fame, as if he had bedn a trefpaffer ab initio. If the
captors had abandoned their property,. let all the legal confequences follow; but that is a queftion which the captors have
a right to-controVert with thofe who-ofaved the property : The
Britiflj claimants can ceartinly advance no title by finding it.
The diffintion between perfect rights, and inchoate rights;
can only occur between a re-captor and the original owner, or
between a vendee and the original owner: the authorities, that
have been cited on the oppofite fide, are all of that defeription,
4artin. 291. Emerig. 494. Grot. 582. Puf7 845. 2 Heinec.
I97. 199; and the fubject is to explained by the latef Englih
455. 6. The diftinction, indeed, arifes enwriters. 2, [od.
tirely out of the jus pojtliaiinium; and the very definitio, of
that right (hews its inapplicability to the preferit cafe. " The
right of "P/liminium(fays J/att. B. 3. c. 14. f 204.) is that
in virtue of which perfons and things taken by the enemy, are
reftored to their former ftate, when coming again under thepower of the nation to which they belonged: but it ca-n have

no operation with regard to foreign or neutral nations-" 2 J'Yofd,
443" Jart. B. 3. c. 14. f 208. Then, wherever a court takes
cognizance of any original ratter, it naturally draws to itsjurifdiction, every incidental, or neceffary, queftion. 3. B1.Com.
io6, 107, io8. Though where the Admiralty, or, as we contend, any foreign court, had rot original jurifdiction, it fhall
not by the incidental occurrence of a queftion properly cogni,"
zable there, defeat the jurifdiction of the common law, or as
we contend, the neutral court. It has been faidi that in cafes
of prize between two other nations, the court of prize has jurifdiction ; 3 B1. Coln. lo8. Where 2 Show. 23 Comb. 4.74. are
cited; but 'the citation is incorrect; for the authority merely
recognizes the general principle, that where the admiralty has
jurifdiction of the original matter, it may, incidentally, try a
queftion, not otherwife triable there. Comb. 46z. and the cafe in
$how.2 3 2. is the celebrated cafe of Hughes & Cornelius, which
merely liys, that a foreign fentence is conclufive. .Raym. 4 7 3 "S,
is a good maxim applied
C'.uod inconveniens eft non licitum ear,
to new, undecided, points. Doug. 388. Where the queftion
of prize comes in collaterally, even a common law court may
decide it, not operating as a fentence to bind the property of
the goods. 2 Wood, 453. 454. Io.Mood. 77, 2 Stra. 1250.
2 Burr. 683. 1198. 1734. for, it is effential to. the court that

it may examine the queftion as far as is neceffary for their
generally
purpofe, though"'"
.rve4 may be re.
" .the queftion
.
'.'confidered,

'796.

198

-

CASES ruled and adjudged in the

1796. ferved for exelufivejurifdictions. Doug. 588. P. Buller. Harg.
L. 7T 452. i Lev. pl. 2. Roll. Abr. 584. 21. Vin. Abr. 43.
But, after all, the queflion of abandonment, is the only proper fubject of controverfy; and, if 'a right of poffeflion ever
attached, the abandonment of the prize can' have no other
effect, than if the captors had fet fire to one of their own Ihips
and abandoned her. The abandonment, if not done by choice,
but from neceffity, leaves the right unimpaired; and the veffel
being brought into port by a frieuid, ought to be reflored, on
paying a reafonable falvage. Lee on Capt. 256. 257. Mooy
82. for, it will not interfere with the jurifdiction of any foreign court, as to the queflion of prize, that our courts fliould,
in this careaffert a jurifdiction to make reftitution to the
captor.
By THE CoURT:-We are unanimoufly of opinion, that
the Diftrict Court had jurifdi6lion upon the fubject of falvage;
and that, confequently, they muft have a power of determining, to whom the refidue of the property ought to be delivered.
In determining the queftion of property, we think, that immediately on the capture, the captors acquired fuch a right, as
no neutral nation could juftly impugn or deftroy ; and, confequently, *e cannot fay, that the abandonment of the AMary
'Ford, under the circumftances of this cafe, revived and reltored the intereft of the original Britik proprietors.
Some doubts have been entertained by the court, whether'.
on the principles of an abandonment by the French poffeffors,
the whole property ought not to have been decreed to the American Libellants, or, at leaft, a greater portion of it by way
of falvage ; but as they have not appealed from the decifion of
the inferior court, we cannot now take notice of their intereft
in the.caufe.
Upon the whole, let the decree be affirmed.

