CAsFs ruled and adjudged in thq
I798,

M'KEE'

Leffee verfus PFOUT,

7THIS was an ejedment tried at the N/if Prius for Dau
phin county in Otober 1795, when a verdit was given
.I
for the Leffor of 6he Plaintiff, fubje6l to the opinion of the
Court, on a cafef frating the following fats,
On the third of January 1794, a warrant had iffued for the
lands defcribed in the declaration in favor of James Chambersi
who, on the 6th of January 1758, made his will, and, inter alia,
evifed, "that all his eftate, after payment of his debts, be equal4"y divided between his wife Sarah, and his children Rowland,
"inn, Sarah, James, Elizabeth, Benjamin, and feph, each
',
one eighth part." The Leffor oi the Plaintiff claimed one
eighth part of the preriiifes under the teftator's daughter Ann,
who had intermarried, twenty years ago, with Oliver .iRamfay,
h4 whom fhe had iffue, and died. Before her death, however,
on the 22nrd of O17ober 1779, fihe had joined with fome of the
other devifees, in conveying their refpecqive (hares in the eftate,
for a val'uable confideration, to dfndrew Strout, the real Defendant; but, at the time of executing the conveyance (touching which, he wgs feparately examined by a Judge of Dauphin
county) (he had been driven away by her hufband, and lived
i6eparate froi him ;--7a fa6t with'which the Leffor of the Plaintiff was well acquainted. On the ift of Qflober 1785, Oliver,
Ranfay (who is fll living) executed an indenture between
him and the Leflbr of the Plaintiff; whereIn it is fet forth, "that
icthe faid Oliver hath granted, bargailned, foldt aliened, releafed,
4 enfeoffed, and confirmed, and cloth grant, bargain, fell, alien,'
ccreteafe, tnfeoff and confirm, unto Rohert AI"Kee, in his actual poffedion now being, by virtue of a bargain and fale to
him made, by the faid Oliver, as thefe prefents, and by vir" tue of the flatute, for transferring ufes into poffeffion; and to,
" his heirs and afligns, my undivided part and refpeffive (hare
" and purparts of him the faid Oliver Ranfay, of, in and to
" that certain piece or trait of land, before defc~ibed, with all
"and fingular ways &c. and reverfigns and remainders,
t and

SUPRME COURT' of Pennfylvania.

40

'c and alfo all the eflate, right, title, intereft," claim and dez t79R.
" mand, whether at law or in equity, of him the faid Oliver,
"of, in and to the fame, to have and to hold the faid refpefive
"fhare and purpart, of in and to the faid plantation, and tra&
t'of land, hereditaments, and premifes, hereby granted, men" tioned or intended
to be, with the appurtenances, unto
"the laid Robert M'Kee, To the only proper ufe, benefit and be, hoof of them the faid Robert M'Kee, his heirs, and ajigns
"forever. And the faid Oliver Ramfay for himfelf, his heirs,
"executors and adminiftrators, not jointly, do covenant, pro" miLe, and grant to and with the Laid Robert MKee, his heirs
"and affigns. That he the faid Oliver Ramfay, hath not done
1- or committed any aa, matter, deed, or thing whatfoever,
hereby or wherewith his aid and refpefive fhare and
. purpart of, in, and to the faid piece or tra& of land, heredi. tamients, and premifes, are'or fhall or may be impeached,
charged or incumbered, in title, charge, eftate, or otherwife
"howfdever.
And the laid Oliver, for "himfelf, his heirs, exI'ecutors, and adminif rators, not jointly, docovenant, promife,
.' and grant, to and with the faid Robert M.Kee, his heirs and
"affigns, that the faid Oliver, his heirs, executors and adminif!' trators, his fhare and purpart,, of him the Laid Oliver Ram
"fay, of, in, and to, the piece or tra& of land aforefaid, heredi" taments and premifes, againif them, their, and each and every
.of his heirs and affigns, and all and every perfon and perfons
' whatfoever, lawfully claiming, or to claim by from or under
"him, or either of them, his or any of his heirsior affigns fhallf,
" and 'will warrant, and forever defend by thefe prefents.
And
: that faid Oliver, and his* heirs, not jointly, do further
" covenant, promife, and grant, to and with the laid Robert,
t''that they, him, her, or any of them, fhalI and will, at anytime.
'- or times hereafter, at and upon the reafonable requeft, proper
".coils and charges, in law, of the Laid Robert MKee, his heirs
6"or affigns, make, execute and, acknowledge, or caufe fo to be,
"all, and every fuch further and other reafonable a& or a6ts,
" deed or deeds, device or devices, in the law whatfoever, either
" by fine or recovery, or otherwife howfoever, for the further
"and 'better conveyance, affurance and confirmation, of his
" refpedtive hare and purpart of him the-Laid Oliver, of in 2.nd
to the faid piece or tra& of land aforefaid, hereditaments, and
premifes, unto the aid Robert, his heirs, and afligns, as by
.' him or them, or his or their counfel learned in the law, fhall
4cbereafonably advifed, deviled, or required."
There is no confideration mentioned in thi' deed ;.but there
was a feparate receipt for £.60, giveni by Oliver Ramjby to
Robert

4.88
1798.
Son

tA'~iEs ruled and adjudged

itn the

Robert M'Kee; and the deed was acknowledged, and recrdedi
the day of its date.
The general queftion fibmitted to the Court, Was"-whether
a conveyance in fee, by a tenant by the curtefy, is nct a forfeiti
ure of his Qftate ? And it wa argued by Ingerfoll, for the Lef;
for of the Plaintiff, and by Duncan and C; Smiths tor the De";
Tt
fendant..
APor the Lefor 6 the Pliinti The fipecial warranty hews
the intention of the party; it fecures the grantee againft any
previous incumbrances by the grantor,, and againtl perfons
claiming under him, his,h~irs or affigns; but there is no covenant, not even a declaration, that he is feized in fee ; and, in ef
fe", he fimply conveys his own right$ whateger that may be.
A freehold, though not a feei may be made defcendible to heirs I
and he nature of the conveyance tinder th ftatutes, and with the
claufe of warranty under the ad of Affembly (I Pol. x i i. Dall.
edit) c6nVeys .Only tuch &ate as the vendor might lawfully
part with. If a tenant for his own life aliens by feoffment, or
fine, for the life of another, or in tail, or in fee, it is a forfeiture';
Black. om. '2. Go. Litt. 5i. Litt. f 4t5. but'the reafon'
isi that fuch an alienation tends to defeat and diveft the remain4
der. In a feoffment, by the word Dedi, fince the ftatute Quia
'mptores, the feoff only is bound to the implied warranty ; and
in other forms of alienation, no warrant whatfoever is implied. 2 B. C. 30. iCo. Litt. 384. Co. Litt. 102. Litt. / 733,
The prefent deed is a bargain and fale ;-a contrad to conVey
for a valuable confideration ; Bl. Corm. 338. and it has its
force and operation by.the Ifatute of ufes. 2 BL Con; 37. 337.
The force and operation of the words " grani, bargain, and
fell under the ac of Aflemblv, (x iVol. iii. Dall, edit.)'do
not apply where a fpecial warranty is introduced into the deed;
and the previous ffdion of the at only gives to deeds acknowledged and recorded the effed of a feoffnient, or a deed inrolled
in England, to perfed the title and feifen of the grantee;, a
mere bargain and fale not being before fo firong a conveyance,
as livery, Shep. 7. 2g9. n. (1,)
Por the Defendant. The a& of Afteimbly declares, that
deeds recorded lall be of the fame force and efFe& here, for
th.- giving poffeffion and feifen, and making good the title and
affurance of lands, tenements and hereditament., as deeds of
Feofimeni with livery of fcen, or deeds enrolled in any of the
Courts of record at W/eflmifler, are or flall be in the kingdom
of Great Britain. x Fol. p. I I. Dall. edit. The prefen't "ded
is, therefore, an abfolute and efficient conveyance in fee, \vhre"
as the grantor had only an eftate for life, as tenant by the curtefy, in the premifes.' But if tenant for life, or years, convcys a
greater

SUPREiME COURT Of Pennfylvania.
greater eftate, than he can lawfully do, whereby the reverfion,
or remainder is dive,/ied, it will be a forfeiture of his eflate, as if
he makes a feoment. 6o. Litt. 251. a. b. The law is the fame
bid.
in the cafe,of an alienation by a tenant by the curtefy.
252. a. .The recording a deed is made, by the ad of Affembly,
eqtial in folemnity to livery offei/en, as public and notorious,
and as operative to pafs and veft the effate. So, if tenant for
life bargains and fells his lands by deed enrolled, although no fee
paffes, yet it is a forfeiture, and that by reafon of the enrollment,
which is mdtte of record. 2 Leon. 64. 5, In Pennfylvania,
the deed on record is itfelf a record, and a copy of it is evidence.
Soj if a tenant for years make a feoffment, it is a forfeiture of
his eflate; 3 M-od. 151; and, when it is faid, in the cafe cited,
that if he makes a leafe and releafe, though it is of the fame
operation, it will not amount to a forfeiture; the reafon is affigned in i '. Rep. 744' that a le.fe and releafe is a lawful conVeyante, and pafles no more ihan a man may lawfully part with.
2 BA Com. 274. 5. The pai ticular tenant, by granting a larger eftate than his own, has, by his own af?, determinod and
put an end to his original intereft; and on fuch determination the next taker is entitled to enter regularly, as in his
remainder, or reverfion. The criterion of the forfeiture is the
a ualpajng an eftate, which the grantor has no right to pafs,
to the prejudice of him in remainder ;-it amounts to a diffeifin. Feoffient without livery, is faid to pafs no intereft,
which is the reafon why fuch a feoffment is not a forfeiture;
but by the a& of Affembly, a deed recorded is equjal to a feoffment with livery ; and it is the matter of record, that makes
the forfeiture. Harg. Go. Litt. 59. a. n. (3")
The Court ftopped Ingerfoll, when he was about to reply,
and delivered their opini6n as follows.

M'Ka.AN, Chief 7ulice. We entertain no doubt on the
prefent queftion. The Legiflature has, at various periods, and
on a variety of fubje&s, departed from feudal ceremonies and
principles, in relation to the transfer and defcent of property:
but, in the prefent infl-ance, the a6t of Affembly meant only to
give to a grant of lands, a greater effed upon the eftate, on recording the deed, 'than could previoufly have been enjoyed,
without livery of feizen : It never contemplatod that circumfiance, as an inifrument to work a forfeiture, on the commoi
law dodrine of ,flienation by tenant for life, or years.
SHIPPEN, Jjrlice. From the words of the ad of Affembly,.
it is plain, I think, that the Legiflature did not mean to work
the forfeiture of a particular eftate, by the provifion for recording deeds., In allowing to deeds recorded the fame force and
affed, as feoffments with livery, the intention is exprefsly re
VOL'. II.
R r r
ftri6o

48.S

1798.

¢90

CASES ruled and adjudged in the

1799.
'

s

ftri6led to "giving poffefflon and feifen, and making good the.
title and aff'rance of lands, tenements, and hereditaments,"

It is, therefore, merely a facility and benefit extended to the.
grantee.
YEATES and SmITH,

fuftices, concurred.
JUDGMENT

for the Plaintiei'

.March Tern, 1799.

RESPUBLICA verfus WRAi.

T

HE Defendant on the ift of June, 1738, had been appointed treafurer for the County of Cumberland, " for
three years, to commence on the 5th of June following ;" but
upon a fuggeftion of improper pra&ices in procuring the appointment, the Attorney General obtained a rule to (hew caufe,
why an information in -the nature of a writ of qieo warranto
ihould notbe filed againft him.
* In fupport of the rule, affidavits and office papers were produced, with a view to fhew, that the Defendant was in embarraffkd circumfrances ; and that he had procured the vote of
one of the County Commiffioners, under an affurance, that he
would foon refign the office of treafurer, as he only wifhed to
be appointed to it, in order to promote his elec6 ion as Sheriff
of the county. "There was, likewife,.an ineffectual attempt
to prove that the cammiffioner, who.had thus voted, and the
Defendant, were not citizens of the United States: And, in
point of law, it was obje&ed, that the appointment was void
ab initio, being made to commence infuturo.
The rule was oppofed by Dallas and M'Kcan; and theopinion of the court in the abfence of the CHIEF JUSTICE, was

delivered by
SHIPPEN, 7zyfice. The prefent is the firfl inflance, that we
recolle6&, of an application of this kind in Pennfylvania; and
oil opening the cafe, it ftruck us to be within the ioth feaion
of the 9 th Article of the Conflitution, which declares, " thatno
4 perfon fhall for any india-able offence, be proceeded againft
4 criminally by information," except in cafes that are not involved

