SUPREME COUkT of the United States.
2. ORDERED, That procefs of fubpwna iffuing but of this
Court, in any fuit in Equity, fhall be fcrved on the Defendant %,-y..
fixty days before the return day of. the faid procefs : and, further, that if the Defendant, on fuch ferv ice of the fubp ana, fhall
not appear at the return day contained therein, the complainant
ihall be at liberty to proceed ex parte.
Lewis then obferved, that the fubpcena in this cafe, had been
iffued on the fame principles ; but as the orders could only ope-rate infuturo, he thought it beft to withdraw his motion for a
djIringas, and to pray that an aliasfubpxna .mightbe awarded ; which was, accordingly, done.

WISCART,

et al. Plaintiffs in Error, verfus
fendant in Error.

DAUCHY, De.

RROR to the Circuit for the Virginia Diftri&. The
Eoriginal proceeding was on the Equity fide of tfie Court
below, where the Defendant in Error had filed a bill, charging
Adrian i/fcart and Augufline De Neufville, Co-partners, with
having fraudulently conveyed all their eftate, real and perfonal,
by three feparate deeds, to Peter Robert De Neufville (who
was alfo made a Defendant to the bill) with a view to prevent
the Complainant's recovering the amount of a decree, which he
,had formerly obtained in another fuit againif them. The an.fwers averred the conveyances to be made bonafide, and for a
valuable confideration ; but after a full hearing of the cafe, the
Circuit Court (confifting of Judges IREDELL and GRI1FIN)
delivered the following opinion: " That the deeds filed as exhibits in this caufe, one dated on the 2oth of May, 1793, GOnveying the goods and chattels in the fchedule thereunto annexed,
to the Defendant P. R. De Neufville ;---another dated on the
i 7 th of the fame month, conveying the flaves therein mentioned, to the faid P. R. De Neufville ;---and another, dated on the
2 th day of the fame month, conveying to him the land therein
mentioned, are fraudulent, and were intended to defraud the
complainant, and to prevent his obtaining fatisfadion for a juft
demand ; that the faid P. R. De Neufvillewas a party and privy to the fraud aforefaid ; and that the faid Deeds were void as
to the Complainant: Whereupon it is decreod and ordered,
that
T t
VOL. III.

322

CASES

ruled and adjudged in the

1796. that the faid Deeds be byhim, the laid P. R. De Neufjille, deli~vered to- the Clerk of this Court, to be cancelled ; that when
thereunto required, he deliver up to the Marfhall of this Court,
fo much of the perfonal property in the faid Deeds mentioned,
or either of them, as is now in his 'hands or pofleffion, to the end
that the Complainant may have an execution thereon ; that h6
do account before one of the Commiffioners of this Court for
the value of all the perfonal property mentioned in the faid
Deeds, or either of them, which he fhall not be able to deliver
up, from having difpofed thereof, or from any other caufe. And
it is further ordered, that the Defendants pay to the Complainant his colts by him expended in the profecution of this fuit."
The record being returned containing the above Decree, at
large, and all the pleadings, and depofitions, and examinations,
produced and taken in the caufe, the difcufion,-by-4erfO//,
for the Defendant in error, and by Lee and Du Ponceau for the
Plaintiff, involved thefe confideritions,-Whether a itatement of
fads by the Circuit Court was in any cafe conclufive ? And
whether the Decree, in the prefent cafe was fuch a ftatement
of fads as the law contemplated ?*
For the Defendant in error. The Court may ffite the cafe, in
conformitytothe A&ofCongrefs (Jud. A6 f. i. i vol. p.6o.)
by merely fending forward the evidence, In 'albot v. 7anfon,
ant.p. 138. in not. and Hillset al v. Rofrs ant.p. 184. there was no

Itatement by the Circuit Court, and the queflion now agitated
was flarted ; but the Cou'nfel, in deference to what feemed to
be the opinion of the Bench, waved the objedion, and proceeded upon the evidence at large, as tranfmitted with the record.
The prefent cafe turns upon the point, whether the execution of certain Deeds was, or was not, fraudulent ? but, fure,
ly, the Decree of the Circuit Court, declaring the execution to
be fraudulent, is not a ftatement of the fadfs, but an inference
of law arifing from the fads, It muff have been the defign of
the Legiflature to feparate the fad from 'the inference; 'otherwife this court would be precluded from examining on appeal,
the juflice of the inferenice, compared with the fads, from
which it had been drawn by an inferior tribunal, The flatement called for by the A6, may, indeed be likened to a fpecial
verdid, where the Jury afcertain the fads, and the Judges de.
cide the law arifing from them; and it cannot be denied, that
a queftion of fraud, or not, is a queftion of law, the refult of
IrDJ.L, jQigire.
The Court below did not intend that the Decree
in this cafe flould have the force of a ftatement of faas, but trarfmitted
the record according to its prefent form, merely in compliance with the
precedents eftabilhed in other circuits. This oral declaration, however,
i;an have no effect to expound the recoro ; nior to i~tflqence the final,

pronpuncc l,
ijpolitiept nw (o O~e

SUPREME COURT

of the United States.

the circumifances of'each particular eafe; and every fuitor is 1796.
entitled by the Conititution to have it re-examined in this t..-y.J
Court. r Burr. 396. 484.*
Every equivocal fad may be explained by circumfances; and thofe circumffances fihould appear wherever the fad is to be made the ground of a judicial
decifion. But here the Decree not only ftates the general refult that the Deeds were fraudulent, bwt that they were made
with a view to defeat and defraud ajuft creditor, without fpecifyingby what evidence the fraudulent intention was afcertained. If it was only giving a preference to another bonafide
creditor, the Ad could not be deemed fraudulent; and this
Court ought not to be bound by the conftrudion of an inferior
Court, 'as to that point, but fhould exercife their own judgment upon a knowledge of all the fads. The Decree, tlherefore,
ought not in any cafe to be deemed conclufive ; and in this cafe,
at all events, it is not fuch a ftatement as the law contemplates,
but the flatement, on which the caufe is now to be taken up;
muf be that which, reciting the evidence and exhibits, is exprefsly called a itatement, and as fuch is fubfcribed by the Judge.
For the Plaintiff in error. There is no precedent to bind
the decifion of the Court; and, therefore, the genuine expofition of the adt of Congrefs is to be fought as the only guide
on this occafion.
Two things are included in the recordiff. The Plea'dings and Decree; and d. The Statement
of the. evidence. Now, the A& of Congrefs (fi.z8.) exprefsIVfpecifies the firft of thefe as one of the three modes, by which
the Circuit Court fhall caufe the fads on which they found
their Decree fully to appear. The other modes of Rlating a
cafe by agreement of the parties, or, if they difagree, by an ad
of the Court, are merely alternatives to be adopted when the
other is ineffetual ; and as, in the prefent infiance, the pleadings and Decree fully fhew all the fads, on which the Court
formed their judgment, all that is fuperadded is unneceffaryand
unauthorifed. Befides, to ftate a cafe, and to furnifh an abftrad
of the evidence, are certainly things of a- very diftind and diftinguilhable nature. I? no cafe does the law require an abridgement of teftimony ; and in this c.fe it is obvious that the law
requires the fadl to be ftated, and not the evidence of the fad.
Even, indeed, in the inflance of a fpecial verdi&, if the Jury
flate the evidence of the fad, and do not find the fac itfelf, the
Court will difregard it ; and here, independent of the Decree,
no fadS is found, but merely an abftrad of the evidence is certified by the Court. The fad effablifhed by the evidence was
• CHASE,7uu?;_. Fraud is fomertmes a matter of fact, fometimes a
qeftion of law, and foinetimes both: But whenever the quq animo is
the gil4t of che inquiry, it is always a qucftion offact.

fraud

324
t

CASES ruled and adjudged in the

1796. fraud ; and the Decree dircled the fraudulent deeds to be can- celled: In this there can certainly be no error in law. Fraud
is, indeed, a matter to be tried by a Jury; if the jurifdidion is
ever changed, it muff either be the effe& of pofitive law, or the
ad of the jury themfelves; and the queflions of fraud or not
had been previoufly fubmitted to a jury in the very authorities
cited from i Burr. 396. 384. Suppofe this cafe had been (as
it might have been) fubmitted to a jury, and they had pronounced the Deeds to be fraudulent, the Court could not for that
caufe afterwards interfere to reverfe the j~udgment, as a jury has
exclufive power upon the queftion of fa&. The pleadings and
Decree, then, ifate the fa&, and if after fuch a fatement the abfirad of the evidence could not be judicially fubmitted to this
Court, the Court will difregard the abftrad, though it is trans.
mitted, as an appendage, with the record.
ELSWORTH, Chief Yuflice. The queftion, how far a Riatement of fads by the Circuit Court is conclufive, having been
already argued in another caufe*, we are prepared to give an
opinion upon that point ; but will rjeferve for further confideration, the obje&ion, that the prefent decree is not fuch a ftatement of fakts, as the law contemplates.
If caufes of equity or admiralty jurifdition are removed hither, accompanied with a flatement of fads, but without the,
evidence, it is well ; and the fatement is conclufive as to all
the fa&s, which it contains. This is unanimoufly the opinion
of the court.
If fuch caufes are removed with a flatement of the fads, and
alfo with the evidence ;-ffill the fiatement is conclufive, as to
all the fac'ls contained in it. This is the opinion of the court
but not unanimoufly.
WILSoN, Juftice. I confider the rule eftabliffied by the fecond propofition to be of fuch magnitude, that being in the minority on the decifion, I am defirous of fPating, as briefly as
I can, the principles of my difirnt.
The decifion muff, indeed, very materially affet the jurifdiction of all the courts of the United States, particulary of the
Supreme Court, as well as the general adminiftratipn of juftice. It becomes more highly important, as it refpets the
rights and pretenfions of foreign nations, who are ufually intereftcd in caufes of admiralty and maritime jurifdidion.
It appears, however, that two opinions have been formed on
this queffion-how far thofe fads involved in the inveffigation
of a caufe of admiralty and maritime jurifdidion, that were
given
I believe the Chief Jullice referred to the cafe of Pintado vef s Berned, an Admiralty cafe, which was argued a few days before, during my
abfenace from the routrt.

SUPREMI

COURT of

the United States

given in evidence in the Circuit Court, (hould, alfo, appear 1796.
in this court, on a writ of error or appeal ? For my part, 1
concur in the opinion, that, notwithftanding the provifions of
the judicial a6, an appeal is the na'tural and proper mode of
removing an admiralty caufe; and, in that cafe, there cin be
no doubt, that all the .teftimony which was produced in the
court below, fhould alfo be produced in this court. Such an
appeal is exprefsly fanlioned by the Ccsniitution; it may,
therefore, clearly in the firft view of the fubje&l, be confidered
as the moft regular procefs; and as there are not any words in
the judicial a q reftri&ing the power of proceeding by appeal,
it muft be regarded as ftill permitted and approved. Even,indeed, if a pofitive reflri6lion exifted by law, it would, in
my judgment, be fuperfeded by the fuperior authority of the
conflitutional provifion.
The claufes in the a& which more immediately relate to this
fubjed, are the 2ift and 22d feaions. The material words
are thefe: S. 21, "' From final decrees in a Diftri¢fc Court in

caufes of admiralty and maritimejurfdilion, where the matter
in difpute exceeds, the fum or value of 3oo dollars, exclufive
of c6ils, an appeal Jhallbe allowed to te next Circuit Court
to be held in fuch Diftri&." S. 22. " Final decrees andjudgments in civil ations in a Diftrid Court, where the matter in
difpute exceeds the fum or value of 50 dollars, exclufive of
coils, may be re-examined and reverfed or affirmed in a Circuit
Court, holden in the fame Difirid, upon a writ of error,
whereto fhall be annexed and returned therewith at the day and
place 'therein mentioned, an authenticated tranfcript of the record, and affignment of errors, and prayer for reverfal, &c.
And upon a like proccf may final judgments and decrees in civil
actions, andfuits in equity in a Circuit Court, brought there by

original procefs, or removed there from courts of the feveral
States, or remot'ed there by appeal from a Diftri& Court,
where the matter in difpute exceeds the value of 20oo dollars,
exclufive of cofes, be re-examined and reverfed or affirmed in
the Supreme Court, &c."
Though the term " civil caufes" is often defcriptively applied, in contradiftinaion to " criminal caufes ;" yet, it is not
uncommon to apply it, likewife, in contradiftin6lion to caufes
of Maritime and Admiralty jurifdi6lion ; and, if we carefully
compare the two fe&ions to which I have referred, I think the
latter diftinalion will plainly appear to be the genuine obje& of
the Legiflature. Thus, in the 2if feaion, provifion is made
for removing caufes of Admiralty and Maritime jurifdiaion
by appeal from the Diftria to the Circuit Court ; and immediately' afterwards, in the 22d fe-tion, another provifion is
made.for removing final decrees and judgments in civil-acions

by

326
1796.
w

CASES ruled and adjudgcd inthe

by writ of error from a Difril: to a Circuit Court. Here,
then, is a direc4 ufe of the term "civil adions," in contradiftinaion to " admiralty caufes ;" and, purfuing the diftind
hatureof the refpetive fubjedts, with technical precifion, we
find that an appeal is allowed in admiralty caufes; and the remedy by writ of error is ifridly confined, in this part of the
fedion at leaft, to civil altions.
There would, perhaps, be little difficulty in the cafe, if the
a& flopped here. But the 22d fedion, after mentioning a writ
of error, proceeds to declare, that -'upon a like procefs," the
final judgments and decrees of the Circuit Court in civil actions, ard fuits at equity, whether originally inflituted there, or
removed thither, fromthe State Court ; or by appeal from the
Diffri& Courts, may be re-examined in the Supreme Court :
And it has been urged, that an admiralty caufe is a civil fuit,
and that fuch a fuit being removed by appeal to the Circuit
Court, can only be finally transferred to this court by a like
procefs; that is by a writ of error. If, however, caufes of
admiralty jurifdi6tion are fairly excluded from the firft member
of the 2d redion, that provides for a removal from the Diftrid to the Circuit Court, impartiality and confiftency of conftrucion muff lead us likewife to exclude them from this member of the fe~lion, that provides for a removal from the Circuit
to the Supreme Court. By fo doing, the two fetions of the
law can be reconciled; and, by fo doing, without including
admiralty caufes, every defcription of fuit may be reafonably.
la.tisfied.
But, if admiral ,y caufCs are not to be removed by writ of
error from the Circuit Court, to which we fee they may be
transferred from the Difiri& Court by appeal, it has been
afked, how they are tobe brought hither'for final adjudication ?
It is true, the a" of Congrefs makes no provifion on the fubjed; but, it is equally true, that the conftitution (which we
muff fuppofe to be always in the view of the Legiflature) had
previoufly declared that in certain enumerated cafes, including
admiralty and maritime cafes, " the Supreme Court fhall have
appellate jurifdidion, both as to law and fa&, with fuch exceptions, and under fuch regulations as the Congrefs Thall
make." The appellate jutifdiction, therefore, flowed, as a
confequence, from this fource ; nor had the Legiflature any
occafion to do, what the Conflitution had already done. The
Legiflature might, indeed, have made exceptions, and introduced regulations upon the fubject ; but as it has not done fo,
the cafe remains upon the ftrong ground of the Conffitution,
which in general termS, and on general principles, provides
and authorifes an appeal ; the procefs that, in its very nature, (as
I have

SUPREME COURT of the United States.

I have before remarked) 'implies a re-examination of. the fact,
as well as the law.
This eonfruction, upon the whole, prefents itfelf to my
mind ; not only as the natural refult of a candid and connected confideration of the Conftitution and theact of Congrefs;
but as a pofition in our fyftem ofjurifprudence, effential to the
fecurity and the dignity of the United States. And if it is of
moment to our domeftic tranquillity, and foreign relations, that
caufes of Admiralty and Maritime juiHfdiction, hould, in point
of fact as well as of law, have all the authority of the decifion of,
our higheft tribunal; and if, at the fame time, fo far from being
prohibited, we find it fanctioned b'y the fupreme law of the
land ; I think (he jurifdiction ought to be fuftained. '
ELSWORTH, Chef Ytoice. I will make a few remarks in
fupport of the rule.
The Confflituti6n, *iftributitig the judicial 'power, of the
United States, i efts in the Supreme Court, an original as well
as an appellate jurifdiction. The original juri-fdiction, however, is confined to cafes' 'Affecting ambaffadors, other public
minifters and confuls, and thofe in which a'State fhall be a par-ty. In all other cafes, only an appellate jurifdietion is giveh
to the court ; and even the appellate jurifdietion is, likewife,
qualified ; inafmuch as it'is given " with fuch. exceptions; and
under fuch regulations, as the Congrefs hall rnake." 'H~rd
then, is the ground, and the only groutd, on which we can
fiftain an appeal. If Congrefs has provided no rule, to regulate our proceedings, wecannot exercife -an appellate jurifdiction; and if the rule is provided, we caniot depart from it.
The quefti6n, therefore, on the conlitaitional point of an appellate jurifdiction, is fimply, Whether'Congrefs'has eftablifhed
any rule fir regulating ;4exercife?
It is to be confidered, men, that the Judicial. Statute of the
United States fpeaks of an AppeSd and-of a Writ of Eifror;.
but it does not confound the teims, nor ufe them promifcuoufly. They are to be underifood, when ufed, according to their
ordinary acceptation, unlefs fomething appears in the ad itfelf
to controul, modify, or changc, the fixed and technical fenfe which
they have, previoufly borne. An appeal is a procefs of
civil law origin, and removes a eaufe entirely; fubjeding the
fa& as well as the law, to a review and re-trial: but a writ'of
:error is a procefs of common law origin, and it removes nothing for re~examination but the law. Does the Statute obferve this obvious diftindion ? I think it does. In the 2if fection there is a provifiqn 'for allowiri an appeal in Admiralty
arid maritime caufes from the Diftrif to the Circuit Court;
but it is declared that the matter in difpute muft exceed the value of 3oo Dollars, or no appel can be fuftained i and yet in
the

796.

-328
1796.
t

GASES

ruled and adjudged in the

the preceeding fetion, we find, thatDecrees and Judgments ih
civil a&ions mia be removed by writ of error from the Diftri&t
to the Circuit Co0urt, though the value of the matter in difpute
barely exceeds 50 dollars. "It is unneceffary, however, to make
any remark on this apparent diverfity: The only queftion is,
whether the civil actions, here fpoken of, include caufes of admiralty and maritimejurifdiction ? Now, the term civilaff ions
would, from its natural import, embrace every fpecies of fuit,
which is not of a criminalkind ; and when, it is confidered, that
the Diftrict Court has a criminal as well as a civil jurifdiction,
it is clear, that the term was ufed by the Legiflature, not to
diftinguifh between Admiralty caufes, and other civil actions,
but to exclude the idea of removing judgments in criminal profecutions, from an inferior to a fuperior tribunal. Beides, the
language of the firif member of the 22d. fection feems calculated to obviate every doubt. It is there laid, that final Decrees
and judgments in civil actions in a Diftri& Court may be removed into the Circuit Court upon a writ of error and fince
there cannot be a decree in the Diftrict Court in any cafe,
except cafes of admiralty and miaritime: jurifdiction, it follows of
courfe, that fuch ogles muff be intended, and that if they are re.
moved at all,, it can only be done by writ of error.
in this way, therefore, the appellate jurifdiction of the Circuit Court is to be exercifed ; bwt it remains to enquire, whether any provifion is made, foi the exercife of the appellate jurifdiction of the. Supreme Court; and, I think, there is, by
.unequivoeal words of reference. Thus, the 22d fection of the
act declares, thatt upon a like procefs," that is upon a writ of
error, fin~al juigments and decrees in civil at~iuns (tt defcription

ftill employed in contradiffinction to criminal profecutions) and
fuits in equity in the Circuit Courtknay be here re-examined
and reverfed or'affirmed. Among MTie caufes liable to be thus
brought hither upon a writ of error, are fuch as had been previoufly removed into the Circuit Court, "by appeal from a
Difirict Court," which can only be caufes of admiralty and maritime jurifdiction.
'It is obferved, that a writ of error is a procefs more limited
in its effeqs than an appeal : but, whatever may be the operation, if an appellate jurifdi~Lion can only be exercifed by this
court conformably to fuch regulations as are made by the Congrefs, and if Congrefs has prefcribed a writ of error, and no)
other mode, by which it can -be exercifed, ifill, I fay, we are
bound to purfue, that mode, and can neither make, nor adopt,
another. The law may, indeed, be improper and inconvenient ; but it is of mor.e importance, for a judicial determination, to afcertain what the law is, than to fpeculate upon what
it ought to-be. If, however, the conftru6lion, that a ftate.
meiit,

SUPREME

COURT

of the United States.

ment of fads by the Circuit Court is conclufive, would amount 1796.
to a denial of juftice, would be oppreffively injurious to individuals, or would be, producive of any general mifchief, I
flhould then be difpofed to refort to any other rational expofition of the law, which would not be attended with thefe deprecated confequences. But, furely, it cannot be deemed a denial
of juftice, that a man fhall not be permitted to try his caufe
two or three times over,
If he has one opportunity for the
trial of all the parts of his cafe, juftice is fatisfied ; and even
if the decifion of the Circuit Court had been made final, no
denial of juftice could be imputed to 'our government ; much
lefs can the imputation be fairly made, becaufe the law dire's
that in cafes of appeal, part fhall be decided by one tribunal,
and part by another; the fa&s by the court below, and the
law by this court, Such a diftribution ofjurifdidion has long
been eftabliffied in England.
Nor is there any thing in the nature of a fa&, which renders it impradicable or improper to be afcertained by a judge;
and, if'thlere were, a fad could never be afcertained in this
court, in matters of appeal.
If, then, we are competent to
.fcertain a fad when affembled here, I can difeern no reafon
why we fhould not be equally competentto the tafk, when fitting in the Circuit Court; nor why it fhould be fuppofed,
that a judge is more able, or more worthy, to-afeertain the fads
in a fait in equity (which, indifputably, can only be removed
by writ of error) than to afcertain the fa&s in. a caufe of admiralty and maritime jurifdidion.
The flatute has made a fpecial provifion, that the mode of
proof, by oral teftimony, and examin ation of witnefles, fhall
be the fame in all the Courts of the United States, as well in
the trial of caufes in equity and of admiralty and maritime jurifdidion, as of a&ions at common law: But it was perceived, that, although the perfonal attendance of witneffes could
eafily be, procured in the Diftri& or Circuit Courts, the difficulty of bringing them from the remoteft parts of the union
to the feat of government, was infurmountable ; and, therefore, it became neceffary, in every defcription of fuits, to make
a flatement of the fads in the Circuit Court definitive, upon
an appeal to this court.
If, upon the whole, the original conflitutional grant of an
appellate juritdidion is to be enforced in the way that hasbeen
fuggefted, then all the teftimony muft be tranfmitted, reviewed, re-examined, and fettled here ; great private and public
inconveniency, would enfue ; and it was ufelefs to provide that
" the Circuit Courts fhould caufe the facts on which they found
"their fentence or decree fully to appear upon the record. "
But, upon the conftruction contained in the rule laid down

VOL. III.

U u"

by

330

1796

CASEs

ruled and adjudged in the

by the Court, there cannot, in any cafe, bej fft caufe of complaint,
as to the queltion of fact, fince it is afcertained by an impartial
and enlightened tribunal ; and, as to the queftion of law, the
re-examination in this court is wifely meant and calculated to
preferve unity of principle, in the adminifiration of juftice
throughout the United States.4'
On the i2th of Auguft, the CHIEF JuSTICp delivered the

opinion of the court upon the point, whether there was, in this
caufe, fuch a ftatement of faas, as the Legiflature contemplated ?
By THE CouitT :-The decree flates, that certain conveyances are fraudulent ; and had it .iopped with that general declaration, fom'e doubt might reafonably be entertained, whether it was not more properly an inference, than the ifatement
of a faSt; fince fraud muft always principally depend upon the
quo animo. But the court immediately afterwards proceed to
defcribe the fraud, or quo animo, declaring, that " the conveyances were intended to defraud the complainant, and to pre-

vent his obtaining fatisfadion for a juff demand ;'#which is
'not an inference from a fa&, but a ifatement of the fa& itfelf.
It is another fa& illufirative of this pofition, that " the grantee was a party and privy to the fraud."
We are, therefore, of opinion, that the Circuit Court have
fufficiently caufed the fafs, on which thej' decided, to appear
from the pleadings and decree, in conformity to the aa of
Congrefs. .The
decree affirmed.
* See Yennings eta!. .verfut The brig Perfeverance, poft. where PATERSONe,
laid he had been of 'opinion with WILSON, YuftiCe, on the %d

7tustice,

hule eflablifhed by the court.

