SUPREME COURT Of

the United States.

1796.

WARE,

E

Adminiftrator of JONES, Plaintiff in Error, verfus
1-lYLTON etal.

RROR from the Circuit Court for the Diffri& of Firgi
nia. The adion was brouight by William Jones, (but

as he died, pendente lite, his Adminiftrator was duly fubftituted as Plaintiff in the caufe) firviving partner of Farrel and
.ones; fubje6ls of the king of Great Britain, againft Daniel Hylton & Go. and Francis Eppes, citizens of Jirginia, on
. bond,"for the peual fum of[.,976 i f 6d flerling, dated the
7 th July, 17,74.
The Defendants pleaded, ift, Payment; and, alfo, by leaveof
the court, the following additional pleas in bar of the adfion.
2d. That the Plaintiff ought not to have and maintain his action, aforefaid, againif them, for three thoufand one hundred
and eleven and one ninth dollars, equal to nine hundred and
thirty three pounds fourteen fhillings, part of the debt in the
declaration mentioned, becaufe they fay, tbat, on the fourth
day of July, in the year one thoufand feven hundred and feventy fix, they, the faid Defendants, became citizens of the fate
of Virginia, and have' ever fince remained citizens thereof,
and refidents therein ; and, that the Plaintiff, on the faid fourth
day of July, in the year 1776, and the faid 7ofeph Farrelwere,
and from the time of their nativity ever had been, and always
fince have been, and the Plaintiff fill is a Brit ih fubje&, owing, yielding 2nd paying allegiance to the King of Great Britain; which faid King of Great Britain, and all his fubje&s,
as well the Plaintiff as others, were, on the faid fourth day of
J1uly, in the year 1776, and fo continued until the third of
September, in the year 1783, enemies of, and at open war
with, the Rate of Virginia, and the United States of America;
and, that being fo enemies, and at open war as aforefaid, the
legiflature of the fate of Virginia did, at their feffion begun
and held in the city of Williamjhurgh, on Monday the twentieth day of Of7obcr, in the year 1777, pafs an acd, entitled
ecan ad for fequeftering Briti/h property, enabling thofe indebted

02)

1796.

CASES ruled ard adjudged in the

ed to BrtiTh fubje&s to pay off fuich debts, and direding'the
in fuits where fuch fiubje&s are parties," whereby it was ena&ed, " that it may ,nd fhall be lawful for any
citizen of this Commonwealth, owing money to a fubjed of
Great Britain to pay the fame, or any part thereof, from time
to time, as he fliall think fit, into, the faid loan office, taking
thereout a certificate for the fame, in the name of the creditor,
with an endorfement under the hand of the commiffloner cf
the faid office, expreffing the name of the payer, and .fhall deliver fLich certificate to the Governor and council, whofe receipt
.hall difcharge him from fo much of the faid debt. " And the
Defendants fay, that the faid Daniel L. Hylton and Co. did,.
on the 26th day of April, in the year 178o, in the county of
.- enrico, and in the ftate of irginia, while the faid recited
i& continued in full force, in purfuance thereof, pay into
the loan office of this Co mmo~nwealth, on account of thle debt
in the declaration mentioned, the fum Of 311I-i-9 dollars,
equal to [ 933:"r4, and did take out a certificate for the fame,
in th6 n me of FarellandYones, in the declaration mentioned,
q creditor$, with al e'dorfement under the hand of the commiITloner of the faid officc, expreffing thr name of the payer,
which certificate they, the Defendants, then delivered to the
Qoyernqr and Council, who gave a receipt therefor, in conforniity to the diredions of the faid ac, in the words and figures following, to wit : " Received into the Councils' office,
a certificate bearing date the twenty-fixth day of Ypril, J780,
" unoer the hand of the treafurer, that Daniel L. Hylton and
'C Go. have paid to him, thirty one hundred eleven and'one ninth
dollars, to be applied -tp the credit of their accounts with
" Fqrrell and 7ones, Britijb fubjeds. Given under my hand,
" at Richmond, this 3 ot May, 178o."

Sproceedings

T. JEFFERSON.

Whereby the Defendants, by virtue of the faid ad of Affembly, are difch~rged from fo much of the debt in the declaration m..enltioned, as the faid receipt fpecifies and amounts to,
and this they are ready to verify. Wherefore, they pray the
judgment of the co urt, whether the faid Plaintiff ought to
have or maintain his adion, aforefaid, againft them for the
933: 14, part of the debt in the declaration mentioned.
3d. That the Plaintiff ought not to have or maintain his
a&ion, aforefaid, againft them, biecaufe they fay that, on the
4 th dayof July, in the year 1776, the faid Defendants became citizens of the ftate of Virginia, and have ever fince
remained citizens thereof, and refidents therein, and that the
raid Plaintiff, and the faid YofephFarrell,on the faid fourth day
of July, in the year 1776, and from the time of their nativity,
had ever been, and always fince have been, Britifl fubjeds,

"and

SUPREME COURT of the United States.

20t

and the Plaintiff Hill is a Briti/h)fubJe6, yielding and payini 179(.
allegiance to the King of Great Britain, which fad king (f
Great Britain,and all his fujet;, as well the Plaintiff and
the laid 7ofeph Farell, as others, were on the lid 4 th day of
1iiY,1776, and fo continued till the 31 day of September, in
the year 1783, enemies of, and at open war with, the hate of
,/irginia, and the United States of America; and that, being.
fo enemies and at open war, as aforefaid, the legiflature of the
Hate of Virginia did, at their feffion commenced and held in
the city of Wilamfburg, on the thid day of 'riay,in.the year
1779, pafs an ad entitled ( An a& concerning efcheats and
;'
whereby it was, among
" forfeitures from Britil)h fubjeds,
other things enaded, " That all the property, real and perfonC al, withhin this Commonwealth, belonging at this time to
any Briti7j fubjec, or which did belongz to any firiti// filb"jedt at the time when fuch efcheat or forfeituie may have taken
" place, fhall be deemed to be vefted in the Commonwealth ;
the lands, flaves, and other real eftate, by way of efch cat, and
And the legiflature of
" the perfonal effate by forfeiture."
the hate of Virginia did, in the'r feffion begun and held in the
town of Richmond, on M-onday the fixth day of M1ay, in the.
year i78-, pafs an a&, entitled " An ad to repeal fo much of
C a former a&, as fufpends the iffuing of executions upon certain judgments until December, 1783," 'whereby it is ena&ed,
that no demand whatfoever, originally due to a fubjed of Great
Britain, fhall be recoverable in any court in this commonwealth, althoughothe fame may be transferred to a citizen of
of this Hate, or to any other perfon capable of maintaining
fuch an adion, unlefs the aflignment hath been, or may be,
made for a valuable confideration, bona fide, paid before the
firit day Mayl 1777, which faid ads are unrepealed, and hill in
force. And the Defendants, in fa&, fay, that the debt in the
declaration mentioned, was perfonal property, within this cor-'
monwealth, belonging to a Brit;:/) fubje&, at the time of the
palling of the faid ad, entitled "1 An a& concrning efcheatq
"< and forfeitures from Britifl fubjets ;" and the Defendantsi
in fat, alfo fay, that the debt in the declaration mentioned,
is a demand originally due to a fubjedf of the King of Great
Britain, not trancferred to any perfon whatfoever. And thefe
things they are readyto verify: Wherefote they pray the judgment of the court, whether the faid Plaintiff oughtto have, or
maintain his adtion aforefaid, againif the m .
againif them,
4 th. That the Plaintiff, his adtion aforefaid,
ought not to have or maintain, becaufe they fay that a definitive
treat, of peace between the United States of -merica and his
Britannic Majefty, was done at Paris, on the third day of
that, by a part of the feventh
September,
VoL. IL in the year 1783, and
D d
I
article

202

1796.

CASES ruled and adjudged in the

article of the faid treaty, it was exprefsly agreed, on the part of

~ his Britannic Majefty, with the United States, among other

things, " That his faid Britannic Majefly fhould, with all convenient fpeed, and without caufing any deftru&ion, or carrying
away any negroes or other property of the I/hnerican inhabitants, withdraw all his armies, garrifons and fleets, from the
laid United States, and from every port, place and barbour
wkhin the fame," which may more fully appear, reference being had to the faid treaty And the faid Defendants aver, that
on the faid 3 d day of Septeber, 1783, and from their birth to
this day, they have been citizens of thefe United States, and
of the State of Firghia, and that the Plaintiff has ever been a
B rit ih fubje&, and that the Plaintiffought not to maintaiti an
ation, becatfe his Britannic Majefty hath wilfully broken
and violated the faid treaty in this, that his Britannic Majefty
hath, from the day of the faid treaty and ever fince, continued
to carry off the negroes in his poffeffion, the property of the
A4merican inhabitants of the United States, and hath, and fill
doth refufe" to deliver them, or permit the owners of the faid
negroes to take them. And the Defendants aver, that his Britannic Majefty-hath refufed, and fill doth refufe to withdraw
his armies and garrifous from every port and harbour within
the UnjtedStates, which his fiaid Britannic Majefty was bound
to do by the faid treaty: and the Defendants aver, that from
the day of the treaty his Britannic Majefty, by force and vio
lence, and with his army, retains poflleflion of the forts Detroit
and Niagara, and a large territory adjoining*the faid forts, and
within the bounds and limits of the United States of Xnerica,

and the Defendants fay, that iii further violation of the faid
treaty of peace, concluded as aforefaid, certain rations, or tribes
of lndians, known by the names~of Shawanefe, Tawas, Twightces, Powzawatemics, Quiapoees, Wiandots, Mingoes, Piankas-

kaws and Naiadonepes, and others, being at open, public
known wars with the inhabit'ants of the United States, and
ing within the limits thereof, and for the purpofe of aidinr
faid Indians in fuch war and hoftiliry, at certain poffs, forts

and
livthe

and
garrifons, held ank kept by the troops and garrifons bf his Britannic Majefty, to wit, at Detroit, Michelimachinacand XV:agara, within the limits of the raid Unitea States, on the 4 th day
of September, 1783, and at divers times'after the faid 4 th day of

Septeniber, 1783, up to the inflitution of this fiiiti by orders and
dire~tions of his Britannic Majefty, and his officers ommandina his faid troops and armies, at the faid garriforis of Detroit,
Michelimachinac and,.Viagara, and at other forts and places
held by the faid troops and armies within the limits of the Unit-

ed States, are fupplied and furnifhed with arms, ammunition
and vseapons of war, to wit, with guns and gutpowder, lead
and

SUPREME COURT

of the United States.

and leaden bullets, tomahawks and fcalping-knives, for the
purpofe of enabling them to' profecute the war againft the citizens of thefe United States, and alfo giving atid paying to the
faid Indians money, goods, wares and merchandize, for booty
and plunder taken in fuch war, and for perfons, citizensof thefe
United States, made prifoners by the faid Indians, in fuch their
warfare againtl the UnitedStates, and fo the King of Great Br'itain is an enemy to thefe United States: And this they are ready
to verify. Wherefore they pray judgment of the court, whether
the Plaintiff, his ation aforefaid, againft them, ought to have
or maintain.
5 th. That the debt in the declaration mentioned, was contraded before the 4 th day of 7uly, in the year 1776, to wit,
on the feventh day of 7uly, in the year 1774, and that whern
the faid debt was contra~ted, and from thence td the faid
fourth day of July, 1776, and on that day, and until this day
the faid Plaintiff was, and is a fubjed to the King of Great
Britain, refiding in Virginia, until the faid fourth day of July,
in the year 1776, on which day the people of North America;
among whom were thefe defendants, who had theretofore been
the fubje&s of the King of Great Britain, diffolved the till
then fubfifling government, whereby the right of the Plaintiffto the debt in the declaration mentioned, was totally annulled.
And this they are ready to verify : Wherefore they pray thejudgment of the court, whether the Plaintiff ought to have, or
maintain his adion aforefaid, aYainfl them.
The Plaintiff replied, ift. Non Solverunt to the plea of payment ; on which iffue was joined ; and to the ;d. plea in bar
he replied,
2d. That he, by reafon of any thing in the faid plea alleged,
ought not to be barred from having or maintaining his faid action againft the faid Defendants, becaufe protefting, that that
plea, and the matters therein contained, are not fufficient in
law to bar the faid Plaintiff from having or maintaining his fai4
adion in this behalf, againft the faid Defendants, to which the
faid Plaintiff hath no reafon, nor is he bound by the law of the
land to anfwer; yet, for replication in this behalf, he, the
faid Plaintiff, faith, that after the debt in the faid declaration
mentioned was contra&ed, and after the faid 4 th dayof July,
1776, in the faid plea of the flaid Defendants mentioned, and
alfo after tile faid twentieth day of Oober, 1777, and the paring the ad of General Affembly, in the faid plea alfo mentioned, and alfo after the day in which the faid receipt in the
plea ftated, is faid to have been granted, to wit, on the
third day of September, in the year of our Lord 1783, it was
by the definitive Treaty of Peace between the United States
of Anerica and his Britannic Majeity, made and done in the

City

1796.

204-

CASES

ruled and adjudged in the

7796. City of Paris, that is to ay, in the commonwealth, now Di-'
ftri, of Virginia, and now within the jurifdidion of this honourable court, ftipulated and agreed, among other things, "that
the creditors of either fide fhould meet with no lawful impediment to the recovery of the full value in fterling money, of
all bona fide dcbts, theretofore contra'ted;" and the faid Plaintiff in faS faith, that he, on the faid third day of September, in
the year I783, and for a lbng time before (as well as the faid
feph Farrell,in his lifetime were) then was, and ever fince
hath been and frill is, a fubjc& of his Britannic Majeffy, and
a creditor within tha intent and meaning of the 4 th article of
the'Definitive Treaty; and that the debt in the declaration
mentioned, was tontraaed before the faid third day of September, 1783, that is to fay, in the county and commonwealth
aforefaid, now the DiftriLH- of Virginia, and now within the
jurifdiaion of this honourable court; and there was and frill
is owing and unpaid. And the faid Plaintiff, for further replication, faith, that after contraaing the debt in the declaration
mentioned by the faid Defendants,, and alfo after the fourth day
of J'uly, in the year of our Lord 1776, and after the faid twentieth day of Oiober, in the year of our Lord 1777, and alfo
after the faid third day of September, in the year of our Lord
1787, in the
day of
1783, that is to fay, on the '
then commonwealth, 'now the difiri& of Virginia, and now
within the jurildi6tion of this honourable court, it was by the
ConfliLuion of the United States of America,. among other
things, exprefsly declared, that treaties which were then made,
or fhould thcriafter be made, under the authority of the United States, fhould be the fuprerne law of the land, any thing
in the faid conflitution, or of the laws of any ftate to the contrary notwvithfianding ; and the faid Plaintiffdoth, in faa, aver;
that the faid Conflitution of the United States, was made and
accepred, fubfequelt to and after the ratification of the faid definitive treaty of peace betweeti the faid United States of Anerica and his Britannic M:jefly, whofe fubjea the faid Plaintiff then Was, 'and flill is,-and after the faid fourth day of July,
in the year 1776, and 'alfo after the faid twentieth day of O6ober,
in the ear '177: Wherefore without'that the debt in the declaration mentioned, was bonafide, contra&ed before the making of the faid Definitive Treaty of Peace, and before the
making; of'the tiid Confritution of the United States, that he,,
the faid Plaintiff, is entitled to demand, have, and recover of
the faid Defehdaits, the aforefaid debt in the declaration mentioned without that the Governor and Council did give a
receipt for a certificate of the payment into the loan office of
the fum uf 13,1 1-9 dllars, in the name of Farrelland':ones,
andt

SUPREM-

CoURT of the United States.

,

05

1796.
and in conformity to the diredion of the aa of General Affembly, entitled " An ad for fequeftring Britih property, ena" bling thofe indebted to Britijh fubjeds, to pay of fuch debts,
" and direding the proceedings in fuits where fuch fubjeas are
C parties;"
whilft the faid ad was in force, as in the faid
plea of the faid Defendants is alledged, and this he is ready to
verify. Wherefore the laid Plaintiff, as before, prays judgment of
the court, and his debt aforefaid, and damages for detention of
the debt to be adjudged to him.
To the 3 d, 4 th and 5 th pleas in bar, the Plaintiff demurred
generally.
The Defendants to the Plaintiff's fecond replication, rejoined, that the faid Plaintiff, for any thing in the faid replication
contained, ought not to have or maintain his faid aaion againift
them, becaufe they, by way of rejoinder, in this behalf, fay,
that in the fame Definitive Treaty of Peace between the United States of America and his Britannic Majefty, by the faid
plaintiff in his replication mentioned, and which is now to the
court (hewn, it was among other things ftipulated and contraded as follows: " There (hall be a firm arid perpetual peace
" between his Britannic Majefty and the faid United States,
" ard between the fubjects of the one and the citizens of the
other; wherefore, all hoftilities both by fea and land, (hall
" from henceforth ceafe, all. prifoners on both fides (hall be fet
at liberty, and his Britannic Majefty (hall, with all conve" nient fpeed, and without ctiuling any deftruction or car" rying away any negroes, or other property of the American inhabitants, withdraw all his a:rmies, garrifons, and
" fleets, from the faid United States, and from every port, place,
" and harbour within the fame :" And the Defendants, in fact,
fay, that his faid Britannic Majeff, hath not performed thofe
things, which, by the fhid Treaty of Peace, he was bound to
perform, but hath altogether failed to do fo, and hath broken
the faid Treaty in this: that on the fourth day of September, in
t.,e year 1783, and on tho third day ofJune, 179o, and at divers times between the faid fourth day of September 1783, ,nd
the (aid third day of June, in the year 179 o , his Britannic
Majefty at Dtroit, and other parts within the boundaries of
the United States, to wit, within the commonwealth of Firginia, and the jurifdiiction of this honorable court, in open violation of the (aid treaty, and the articlcs thereof, excited, perfuaded, and ftirred up the .Shavanef', and divers other tribes,
of Indians, to make war upon the (aid United States of America, and the commonwealth of Virginia; and gave them,
the (aid In'dians, aid in the profecution of the (aid war, and
furni/hed them with. arms and ammunition, for the purpofe of
enabling them to profecute the fame. And Wis faid Britannic
M~jefty

CASES ruled and adjudged in the

1796.

Majefty hath not, with all convenient fpeed, and without cauany deftrudion or carrying away any negroes, or other
property of the Aimerican inhabitants, withdrawn all his.armies,
garrifons and fleets, from the faid United States, and from
every port and place within the fame;-but hath carried away
five thoufand negroes, the property of American inhabitants,
on the fourth lay of September, in the year 1783, from New
York, to wit, in the commonwealth of J/irginia, and within
the jurifdidion of the court; and hath refufed to withdraw
with all convenient fpeed, his armies and garrifons from the
United States, and from every pof: and place within the-fame ;but hath, with force and violence, and in open violation of
the faid Treaty of Peace, onl the faid third day of September,
in the year 1783, and fince, maintained his armies and garrifons in the forts of Niagara and Detroit, which are pofrs and
places within the United States, and ifill doth maintain his armies and garrifons within the faid forts ; and the Defendants
further fay, that the debt in the declaration mentioned, or fo
much thereof, as is equal, to the fum of . 933 14. was not a
bonafide debt due and owing to the Plaintiff, on the faid third
day of September, 1783, becaufe the Defendant had, on the
day of
1780, in Virginia as aforefaid, paid in
part thereof the fum of 3111 1-9 dollars, and afterwards obtained a certificate therefor, according to the ad of the General
Afflembly, entitled " An a& for fequeftring Britijh property,
enabling thofe indebted to Britib fubje&s, to pay off fuch
debts, and direting the proceedings in fuits, wherefich fubjeds are parties," which payment was made while the faid ad
continued in full force, without that the faid Treaty of Peace,
and the Couffitution of the United States, entitle the faid
Plaintiff to m~iintain his faid adion, againft the faid Defendants, for fo much of the faid debt in the declaration mentioned,
as is equal to k* 933 14. and this they are ready to verify:
'Vherefore they pray the judgment of the court, whether the
Plaintiff ou(lght to have or maintain his acion aforefaid, againif
them, for fo much of the debt in the declaration mentioned, as
is ecl,;al to the faid fuin off. 933 14.
The Defendants joined iffue on the demurrer to the 3 d 4 th,
and 5 th pleas in bar: And the Plaintiff havinz demurred to
the Defendants rejoinder to the fecond replication, ifl'ue was
thereupon likewife joined.
On the demurrer to the Defendant's rejoinder to the Plaintiff's replication to the fecond plea, judgment was given by
the Circuit Court, for the Defendants, and that as to fo muchh.
of thc debt in the declaration mentioned, as is in Lhe faid fecond plea fet forth, the Plaintiff take nothing by his bill: On
which judgment, the prefent writ of error was brought i but on
thq

ring

SUPREME COURT of the

United States,

demurrer to the 3 d, 4 th, and 5 th pleas, judgment was given
for the Plaintiff; a Jenire was awarded to try the iffiue in fa&
on the firti plea of payment; and on the trial a verdict and
judgment were given for the Plaintiff for 596 dollars, with
intereft at 5 per cent. from the 7 th
1782,
2uly,
and cofts.
Oil the return -of the record, the error affigned was, that
judgment had been given for the Defendants, inftead of being
given for the Plaintiff, upon his demurrer to their rejoinder to the replication to the fecond plea. In nullo efl erratum
was pleaded, and thereupon iffue was joined. The general queftion was-whether by paying a debt due
before the war, from an .Auterican-citizenito BritiJh fubje6ds,
into the loan office of Firginia, in purfuance of the law of that
flate, the debtor was difcharged from his creditor ? And the
argument took the following general courfe.*
E. Tilghman, for the Plaintiff in error. It is. conceded
that a debt was due from the Defendants to the Plaintiff, at
the commencement of the revolutionary war; and it has been
decided, in the cafe of Georgia- veifus Braisford, ant. p. z.
that although the fltate had a power to fufpend the payment of fuch
a debt, during the continuance of hoftilities, yet that the creditor's right to recover it, revived as an incident and confequence of the peace. There is, indeed, no controverting the
general right of a belligerent power to confifcate the property
of its enemy, in ordinary cafes ; though the modern policy of
nations abftains from the exercife of that right, in refpe& to
debts. Fatt. B. 3. f 77. P. 4"84. But the relative fituation
of Great Britain and her colonies was of a peculiar nature,
widely different from the fittation of the Grecian, or Roman
colonies ; and, therefore, requiting a new and appropriate rule
of action. At the time of the revolution, the creditor and
debtor were members of the fame fociety; fubjeds of the fame
empire. Had they belonged, originally, to difind, independent flates, both would have -anticipated, in the cafe of a war.
an exercife of the power of confifcation ; but the event of a
-civil conteft codld not be reafonably contemplated, nor provid&
ed for. We find, therefore, upon the law of pofitive authori,
ty, as well as upon a principle of natural juftice; that even the
declaration of independence Aas deemed to have no obligatory
operation upon any inhabitant of the United, States, who did
not chufe, voluntarily to remain in the country, or to take an
oath
* As I was not prefent during the argument, I was in hopet to have
obtained the bVeis of the cottnfel themfelves, for a more full difplay
of their learning and ingenuity in this caufe ; but being difappointed in
that refpeQ°f I have been aided by the notes of Mr. W. Tilghman, to
whofe kndnefs, it is juft 'on the prefcnt occation to acknowledge, I

have been frequently indebted for fimilar communicationsi in the courfe
Mfthe compilation for thcf, Reports.

1796.

208

1796.

CASES ruled and adjudged in the

I
oath of allegiance, to fome member of the confederation.
Dall.Rep. 53. On the declaration of independence, the.American
debtor might chufe his political party, but he could not diffolve
his obligation to his Briti/h creditor; and if he had nopowerto
diffolve it himfelf, it follows that he could not communicate
fuch a power, to the fociety of which he became a member.
Jatt. Pr. Dif.f. s. Tt. Befides, there are, certainly, a variety of cafes, to which the rigorous power of confifcation cannot, and ought not to extend. Suppofe a contrad is formed
in a neutral country, between fubje&ls of two belligerent powers, the debt thus incurred could hardly be the obje&i of confifcation. An adion, it has been adjudged, may be maintained on a ranfbm bill, even during the continuance of the war.
Doug. I9. And. in general, it may be flated, that capitulations, made in time of war, though they embrace the fecurity
of debts, as well as other property, mu&t be held facred. Vatt.

B. 3" f 263. 264. p. 61z. 613.
But fuppofing Virginia had the right of confifcation in the
prefent inftance, two grounds for judicial enquiry will ftill remain tobe explored :-ifr, Whether ana&of the Legiflature
of that State has been paffed, and fo aded upon, as ever to have
created an impediment to the Plaintiff's recovering the debt in
controverfy? And 2d. Whether fuch impediment, if it ever
4
exifted, has been lawfully removed ?
ift. It does not appear, from the enading claufes of the law
of JVirgiaia, which has been pleaded, that the State had any
intention to confiftate the Pritifl debts paid into her treafury';
and the preamble (which, though it cannot controul, may be
advantageoufly employed to expound, the enading claufes) is
manifeftly inconfiftent with fuch an intention. The money,
when paid by the debtor into the treafury, was, fimply, to re-'
main there, fubjed to the diredions of the Legiflature ; and
as the debtor was not bound fo to pay it, the provifions of the
ad could not amount to a confifcation ; but were merely an invitation to pay, with an implied prom ife, that whoever accepted the terms of the invitation, fhould be indemnified by the
Sfate. Nor was the invitation indifcriminately given to all
debtors, but only to thofe who were fued ; from which the inference is irrefiffible, that whatever refponfibility the flate
meant herfelf to affume, there was no intention to extinguifft
the refponfibility of the Virginia debtor to the Britih cireditor,
The a& of the Virginia Legiflature, paflkfd the 3 d of May
1779, is in part mtateria, and throws light on the conftrudlion
of the former ad; for, there, when the Legiflature meant to
interpofe a bar to the recovery, they have in exprefs terms detlai-ed it. Several other ads have paffed on the fubje&, to
which it is merely neceffary to refer : The ad of the ift of

I

,7

SuPREME CoURT of the United States.

May, 178o, repeals the ad of the 20th of Ot~ober 1777, fo far
as rega rds the authority to pay debts into the treafury. The
ads of the 6th of MUay 1782, and 2oth of Oflober 1783, revive the authority of making fulh payments in rehition to Briti/j debts; and prevents the recovery by Britijh creditors.
The ad of the 3 1 of January 1788, fixes the amount for
which the State will be -liable on account of payments into the
treafury; to wit, for the value of the money at the time it was
fo paid, with intereft.
6J. But if any impediment ever exifted to the recovery of
the debt, it is removed by the operation of the treaty between
tbe United States and Great Britain, Congrefs having a power to repeal all the adts of the feveral States, in order to obtain peace ; and the treaty made for that purpofe being the fupreme law of the land. The fourth article declares that creditors on either fide (hall meet with no lawful impediment to the
recovery of debts heretofore contra6ted ; and unlefs this provifion applies to cafes -like the prefent, it will be ufelefs and
nugatory. An interpretation, which would render a claufe in
the treaty of no effe&, ought not to be admitted. Patt. B. 2.
. 283. The fifth article exprefsly ftipulates, that Congrefs
flhall recommend the refforation of fome parts of confifcated
property, and a compofition as to other parts ; but that " all
perfons who have any intereft in confifcated lands, either by
debts, marriage fettlements, or otherwife, fhall meet with no
lawfil impediment in the profecution of their juft rights.'"
Both parties to the treaty feemed to think that there had been
ne confifcation of debts'*; and debts were the great objed
which the Britijli commilion 6 rs wiflied to fecure. Whatever
tends to p;-bduce equality in nati-onal compa&s ought to be favoured ; Yatt. B. 2. f 301. and as the Britijh government
bad thrown no ibpediment in the way of recovering debts, the
4inerican fhould be prefumed to have aded on the fame liberal
principle, if any doubt arifes upon the conifrudfion of the
public ads. When a flatiLte is repealed, mefne adls are valid ;
bur. it is not fi," when a fubfequent ac declares a former one to
be void. Jenk. 233. pl. 6. Had the treaty meant to obviate
only a pairt of t.i impedimerits, the meaning would have been
e'xpreffed in qualified terms. But as it could not be fuppofed,
that, after the peace, laws would be paffed creating impediments
to the recovery of Britih debts ; the treaty cannot be conconftrued merely to intend to prevent the paffing future laws,
'but to annihilate the operation of fuch as were previoufly-enaded. '[here is no fuch claufe in the treaties, vhich England
made
'

'[hED.LL,

lce.

The State of North Caolina did afually pafs a

confifcation law.

VOL. 111.

E e

1796.

l1o.

1796.
-*

CASEs ruled and adjudged in the

rade at thefame period with France, Spain, and Holland, and
for this obvious reafon, that thofe countries had paffed no law
to impede the recovery of Briti/h debts. A change of circumtances, a recognition, ex pojfa,7o, will often impofe an obligation, which may not, originally, be binding on the party:
The debt contradedby an infant, is obligatory on him, if he
promites to pay it when of age. The affumption of a certificated bankrupt, to fatisfy a debt, which the certificate would,
otherwife, have difcharged, affords a new caufe of ai'ion.
And the bare acknowledgment of a debt, barred by the flatute
of limitations, is fufficient to maintain an adtion againft the
debtor. So, in the pref'ent cafe, the treaty, operating as a national compait, is a promife to remove every pre-exifting bar
to the recovery of Briti/h debts ; and, whatever may have
been the previous flate of things, this is a paramount engagement, entered into by a competent authority, upon an adequate
confideration.
Marhall, (of Pirginia)'for the Defendant in error. The
cafe refolves itfclf into two general propofitions : ift, That
the a-t of Afiemblyof Virginia, is a bar to the recovery of the
debt, independent of the treaty. 2d, That the treaty does not
remove the bar.
I. That the aa of Aflemblv of Virginia is a bar to the recovery of the debt, introduces two 'fubj es for confideration :
Iff. Whether the Legiflature had power to extinguifh the
dcbt ? 21. Whether the Legiflature had exercifed that power ?
ift. It has been conceded, that independent
nations have, in
general, the right of confifeation; and that Virginia, at the
time of paffing her law, was an independent nation. But, it is
contended, that fiom the peculiai circumftances of the war,.
the citizens of each of the contending nations, having been
nembers of the fame government, the general right of confif-.
cation did not apply, and ought not to be exercifed. It is not,
.however, neceflary tor the Defendant in error to mhew a parallel cafe in hiftory ; Ifince, it is incumbent on thofe, who wifl
to impair the fovereignty of Vlirginia; to eft-ablifh on principle,
or precedent, the juflice of their exception. That State being
engaged in a war, neceffarily pofl.flcd the powers of war;
*and conffcation is one of thore powers, weakening the party
againrt whom it is employed, and ftrengthening the patty that
.employs it. -Var,
indeed, is a ftate of force ; and no tribunal can decide between the belligerent powers. But did, not
'Pirginiahazard as much by the war, as if fhe had never been
a meembe'r of the Briti empire ? Did flhe not hazard more,
',f:omn the very circunmfance of its being a civil war ? It will
i; allowed, that nations have equal powers.; and that America,
:'.1
her oivn t ibi,ls at 1,taft,
muff from the +th of 7uly 1776,
be-

SUPRE"M-E COURT

of the United Steef.

.confidered as independent a nation as Great Britain: then; 1796.
what would have been the fituation of American property, had '.o-v-N'
Great Britain been triumphant in theconfli&
Sequeftration;
cnfifcation and profCription would have followed in the train of
that event; and whvfhould the confifcation of Britijh property be
deemed lefsj uft in the event of the American triumph ? The rights
of war clearly exift between members of the fame Empire, engaged in a civil war. Yatt. B. 3. f- 292. 295. But, fuppofe a
fuit had been brought during the war by a Briti7i fubjet againif
an Xmerican cit;zen, if could not have been fupported ; and if
there was a power to fufpend the recovery, there mutt have been
a power to e-tinguif_ the debt: they are, indeed, portions of
the fame power, emanating from the fame fourct. The legiflative authority of any country, can only be reflrained by its
own municipal conflitution: This is a principle that fprings
from the very nature of fociety ; and the judicial authority can
have no right to queflion the validity of a law, unlefs fuch a
jurifdidqion is exprefsly given by the conftitution. It is not
neceffary to enquire, how the judicial authority fhould a&,. if
the Legiflature were evidently to violate any of the laws of
God ; but property is the creature of civil fociety, and fijbje&dt
in'all refpecLs, to the difpofition and controul of civil inftitutions. There is no weight in the argument, founded on what
is fuppofed to be the underftanding o f the parties at the place
and time of contracting debts ; for,. the right of confifcation
does not arife from the underftanding of individuals, in private
tranfadions, but from the nature and operation of government;
Nordoes it follow, that becaufe an individual has not the power
of extinguifhing his debts, the community, to which he belongs, may not, upon principles of' public policy, prevent his
creditors from recovering them. It muft be repeated, that the
law of property, in its origin and operation, is the offspring of
the, focial ftate ; not the incident of a flate of nature. But the
revolution did not reduce the inhabitants of Anerica to a flate
of nature; and, if it did, the Plaintiff's claim would be at an
end. Other objections to the dodrine are flarted : It- is faid,
that a debt, which arifes from a contradt, formed between the
fubjeds of two belligerent powers, in a neutral country,, cannot be confifcated; but he fociety has a right to apply to its
own ufe, the property of its enemy, wherever the right of property accrued, and wherever the property itfelf can be found.
Suppofe a debt had been contraded between two Aimericans,
.and one of them had joined England, would not the right of
.confifcation extend to fuch a deb- ? As to the cafe of the ranfoin
.bill, if the right of confifcation does not extend to it, (which
is, by no means, admitted) it muft be on account of the peculiar nature of the contra&, implying a waver of the righ s of
war:

tic
1796.

CASEs ruled anid adjudged in the

war. And the validity of capittilations depends on the* fame,
principle. But, let it be fuppofed, that a government flhoiild
infringe the provifions of a capitulation, by imprifoning folx
diers, who had flipulated for a free return to theirhome, could
an adion of trefpafs be maintained againff the gaoler ? No :
the ad of the government, though difgraceful, Would be obligatory on the judiciary department.
2d, But it is now to be confidered, whether, i the Ldgifla .
ture of V/i?.rinia had the power of confifcation, they haie exercifed it ? "'h, third fecion of the ad 'of Aflermbly difcharges
the debtor; and, on the plain import of the term, it may be
afked, if lie is difeharged, how can he' remain charged ? 'he
expreffion is, he fmall be difcharged from the debt; and yeti
Suppofe
it is contended, he fhall remain liable to the debt.
the law had faid, that the debtor flhould' be difcharged from the
commonwealth, but not from his creditor, would not the Legiflature have betrayed the extremeft folly in fuch a propofition ? and what man in his fenfes would have paid a farthing
into the treafuiry, under fuch a law ? Yet, in violation of the
expreflions of the a&, this is the conftrudion which is now attempted. It is, likewife, contended, that the adt of Affembl,
does not amount to a confifcation of the'debts paid intothe
treafury; and that the Legiflature had no power, .s between
creditors and debtors, to make a fubftitution, or commutation,
in the mode of payment. But what is a confifcation ? The
fubfiance, and not the form, is to be regarded. The ftate had
a right either to make the confifcation abfolute, or to modify it
as fie pleafed. If flie had ordered the debtor to pay the mopey
into the treafury, to be applied to public' ufes; would it not
have been, in the eye of'reafon, a perfed confifeation ? She
has thought proper, however, only to authorife the payment
to exonerate the debtor from his 'creditor, and to retain the
money in the treafiury, fubjed to her own difcretion, as to its
future appropriation. As far as thearrangement has been made,
it is confifcatory in its nature, and muff be binding on the par-.
ties ; though in the exercife of her difcretion, the flate might
chufe to reftore the whole, or any.part, of the money to the
original creditor. Nor is it fufficient to fay, that the payment
was voluntary, in order to defeat the confifcation.
A law is
an expreffion of the public will ; which, when expreffed is'not
the lefs obligatory, becauife it impofes no penalty. Banks, Caiial Companies, and numerous aflociations of a-firhilar defcription, are formed oil the principle of voluntary fubfcription.
TPhe nation is defirous that fuch initutions flould exiff; individuals are invited tofubfcribe on the terms of the law; and,
when they have fubfcribed, they are entitled to all the benefits,

arnd are fubj. & to all the inconvenienices of the aflociation, although

SUPREME COURT of the United States.
though no penalties are impofed. So, when the government of i 96;
Virginia wiffied to poflefs itfelf'of the debts previoufly owing t
to.Brit;fl)fubjd6s, the debtors were invited to make the payment into the treafury; and, having done fo, there is no reafon,
or juffice, in contending that the law is not obligatory.on all,
the world, in relation to the benefit, which it promifed a's an
inducement to the payment. If, fubfequent to the adt of 1777, a
law had bee.n paffed confifcating Britijh debts, for the ufe of the
ifate, with orders that the Attorney Qeneral thould frie all,
Britih debtors, could he have fued the Defendants in error,
as Britijh debtors, after this payment of the debt into the freafury ? Coinmon fenfe and common honefly revolt at the idea.;
and, yet, if the Britifl) creditor retained any right or intereff
in the debt, the ftate would be entitled,, on principles of law,
to recover the amurht.
II. Having thus, then, e{rablified, that at the time of entering into the Treatyiof 17S 3 , the Defendant owed nothing to
the Plaintiff; it is next to be enquired, whether that treaty
reVivid the debt in favour of the Plaintiff, and removed the bar
to a 'recovery, which the law of F/rginia had interpofed ?
The words of the fourth article of the Treaty are, " that credi'tors on either fide, thall meet with no lawful impediment to
the recovery of the full value, iiifferling money, of all bonafide
debts heretofore contraded."
Now, it may be afked, who
are creditors ? The're cannot be a creditor, where there is not
a..debt ; and Britijh debts were extinguifhed by the ad of con"
fifcation. The a'rtides, therefore, nuf be conftrued with
reference to thofe 'creditors, who had bonafide debts, fubfifting,
in legal force, at the time of making the Treaty; and the word
recove;y can have no effe& to create a debt, where none previoufly exifted. Without difcuffing the power of Congrefs to
take away a vefted right by treaty, the fair and rational conftrul~tion of the inftrument ikfelf, is fufficient for the Defendant's caufe. The words ought, furely, to be very plain, that
fhall work fo evident a hardfhip, as to compel a man to pay a
debt, which he had before extinguithed. The treaty, itfelf,
does not point out any particular defcription of perfons, who
were to be deemed debtors ; and it mull be expounded in relar.
.tion to the exifting Rlate of things. It is not true, that the
fourth article can have no meaning, unlefs it applies to caies
like the prefent. For inrfance ;-there was a law of /irginia,
which prohibited the recovery of Britijh debts, that had not
been paid into the treafury': thefe vere. bona fide fubfifting
debts; and the prohibition was a legal impediment to the reco
very, which the treaty was intended to remove. So, likewife,
in feveral other flates, laws had been paffed authorifing a difcharge of Britijh debts in paper money, or by a tender of property

114 .

1796.
Ly..)

in the
CAsEs:'ruled and adjudged

perty at a valuation, and the treaty was calculated to guard
againif fuch impediments to the recovery of the flerling value
of thofe debts. It appears, therefore, that at the time of'making the treaty, the ifate of things was fuch, that//irginiahad
exercifed her fovereign right of confifcation, and had adually
received the money from the Britijh debtors, If debts thus
paid were within the fcope of the fourth article, thofe whoi
framed the article knew of the payment ; and upon every principle of equity and law,' it ought to be prefumed, that the tecovery, which they contemplated, was- intended againft the reirginia pofefceivin g flate, not againif the p~ying.debtor.
'fing the right of compelling a payment for her own ufe, the
payment to her, upon her requifition, ought to be onfidered
as a p-.yme.t to the-attorney, or agent, of the Brit,/h'creditor. Nor is fuch a fublitution a novelty in legal proceedings :
A foreign attachment isfounded on the fame principle. Suppofe judgment had been obtained againft the Defendants in
error, as Garnifflee in a foreign attachment brought againf the
Plaintiff in error, and the money had been paid, accordingly,
to the Plaintiff in the attachment; but it afterwards appeared
that the Plaintiff in the attachment had, in fade, no caufe of
adion, having been paid his debt before he commenced the
fuit: If the treaty had been made in fuch i ftate of things,
which would be the debtor contemplated by the fourth article,the ]Defendants in error, who h.d complied with a legal judgment againft them, or the Plaintiffin the attachment, who had
received the money? This adt of firginia muff have been
known to the American and Britijh commiffioners; and, therefore, cannot be repealed Without plain and explicit expre.fions

diredted to that objed.

Befides, the public faith ought to b!

preferved. The public faith was plighted by the ad of /irginia; and, as a revival of the debt in queftion, would be a
fhameful violation of the faith of the ifate to her own citizens,
the treaty ffiould receive any poffible interpretation to avoid
fo difhonorable and fo pernicious a confequence. It is evident,
that the power of the government, to take away a veffed right,
was queftiornable in the minds of the Anirlcan comrnmifioners,
fince they would not exercife that power in reftoring confifcated
,real eflate; and confifcated debts, or other perfonal eflate muff
come within the fame rule. If Congrefs had the power of divefting a vefled right, it muff have arifen from the neceffity of
the cafe; and if the neceffity had exiffed, the American commiffioners, explicitly avowing it, would have jufified their
acquiefcence to the nation, But the commiffioners could have
no motive to form a treaty fuch as the oppofite conftrudlion
fuppofes ; for, if the ftipulation was indifpenfable to the attainP)rnt of peace, tlhcobjedSI was national, and fo fhould be the
payment.

SUPREME COURT of the United States.
payment of-the equivalent: the commiffioners, in fihch cafe, 1796.
would have agreed, at once, that the public fhould pay the
"Iritijhdebts; fince the public muff, on every principle of,
equity, be anfwerable to the Virginia debtor, who is now faid
to be the vidim. The cafe cited from Yenkins, does not apply ; as there is no article of the treaty, that declares the law

of Virginia void. See Old Law of Evidence 196.
Campbel, of firginia, on the fame fide. The queltions to
be difeuffed are thefe :-tfe. Did the af ofAffembly of Firginia difcharge 'the debtor ? 2d. Did any fubfequent. a&, or
law, of the government, re-charge him ?
I. The right of confifcation, in a time of war, is incontrovertibly eftablifhed ; Jatt. b. 3. c. 5 "f- 77. and nothing but the
conventional, or cuffomary, law of nations, 'can reffrain the
exercife of that general right. But the conventional, or cuftomary, law of nations is only obligatory on thofe nations by
',whom it is adopted. /7att. Pret. Die f. 24. 25. 17. Vatt. b.
,3. C. 28.f. 287. 292. Even in the Englih courts, indeed, the
confifcation law of Georgia has been adjudged to be valid. If,
therefore, the right of confifcation might be exercifed by ap
individual {fate, nothing can more emphatically prove its exercife, than the language of the a& of Virginia. The adt is a
difcharge in exprefs terms, faying, that " the receipt of the
poper ofcer (hall DJ-harge the paver from fo much of his
debt, as is paid into the treafury ;"-whereas a confifcation of
the debt, would only work a difcharge by legal inference. To
reftricd the meaning 6f the difcharge to a difcharge from the
flate, is abfurd ; for, the fiate never had a charge againi the
debtor; or, if the flate had a right to charge him, another
confequence, equally fatal to the Plaintiff's caufe, would en
fue, that the right of the Britih creditor to charge him was
extinguifhed; fince the debtor clearly could not be refponfible
to both.
11. In confidering.,whether any thing has been done by the
"Government, to revive the charge, in favor of the Britijh creditor, it is to be premifed, that the ffate of things, at the time of
making the treaty, is to be held legitimate; and whatever tends
.to change that flate, is odious in the eye of the law. Fatt. B,
4. c. ,f
. HiLd. B. 2- c. 17.f 305
As, therefore, by the
law of nations,.a payment under a confifcation difcharges a, debtor, though if there had been no payment, the debt.would have
revived at the peace; Bynk. c. 8. p.' 177. de reb. b11. nothing
fhott of an exprefs and explicit declaration of the treaty fhould
be allowed fo to alter the flate of things,'as to revive a deb,¢
that had been lawfully extinguifhed. If thn the treaty h24&
been intended to alter the frate of things, reafbn, equity, and law,,
voncur in fuppofing, that it would have been by: a provifio.,
calling

2 16

CASES ruled and adjudged in the

T796. calling on Virginia, whio had received the money, to refund
it in fatiffaftion of the claim of the Britfh creditor. Adverting to the words of the 4 th. article of the treaty, and thence deducing a fair, legal, and confiftcnt meaning, the claim of the
Plaintiff cannot be fupported. It may not be improper to apply the word Creditors to Britif) fubje&s ; but, it is contended,
that the Virginia aa interpofes a lawful impedirnent;(.notan impediment in faa, fuch as payment to the creditor himfelf)to the
recovery of the debt, which impediment the treaty intended to
remove. The anfwer, however, is conclufive, that this was
not a debt at the time of making the treaty; and, therefore, the
expreflion, whatever may be its general import, cannot be applied to the cafe. It is urged, likewife, that the words,debts
heretofore contraRced, are peculiarly defcriptive of debts of the
prefent clafs : but the words heretofore contra~ed, cannot alter
the nature and import of the word debt ; and thofe words were
neceffary to be inferted; becaufe they afcertained the debts,
which were, at all events, to be paid in fterling money ;-debts
contralted afterwards being left to the lex loci, and liable to
the tender laws, which the different ftates had made, or might
think proper to make. If, indeed the oppofite confirudfion prevails, then all debts, previoufly contra6fed, in whatever manner
they may have been extinguifled, are revived by the treaty.
But, furely, obfcure words ought not to be confirued fo as to
alter the exifting (tate of things between the two nations, and
involve thoufands of individual citizens in ruin. Itis,not now
contended, that debts do not revive by the peace; though the
Commiffioners, who formed the treaty, might entertain doubts
on the fubje6t; and, therefore, provided fpecially for the cafe.
Grotius B. 3-c. 9"f-9. fays,(though his commentator diffents)
that debts are not, of courfe, revived by a peace; and there are
many inftances of Conventions between nations, flipulating for
the :evival. Bynk. de reb. bell. c. 8. p. 177. The treaty extends to Briti/h, a-S well as to American, debtors; and as Britain had paffed no a& of confifcation, the article was meant folely as a convention, that debts not paid to the public, (hould be
recoverable of the original creditor. To illucidate the fubje6t,
it. is neceffary to inquire into the power of the Commi!fioiers ;
-for, it is not to be prefumed, that they were ignoiant of their
power, or that they meant to exceed it ; and if oape contruaion
*will produgle ah effe6t, to which they were competent, while
the other 'conftrudion will amount to a mere ufurpation, the
former ought'certainly to be adopted. Thus, Congrefs never
Was confidered asa'legiflative body, except in relation to thofe
'fuibjeits exprefsly affigned to the Federaljurifd iction; 'and could
at'no timei nor in any manier, repeal the laws of the feveral
,ftate , or, fai'rifice the rights of individuals. The po;vcr of abrogating,

SUPREME COURT of the

United tates.

rogating, is as eminent as the power of making laws ; 'att. B. 1796.
I. c. 3.f 34. 47. and even the powers of war and peace may be
limited by the fundamental law of the Society. Yatt. B. 4. c.
a.f. Io. The fundamental law of the Union, was declared in
the articles of confederation; and thofe articles, as well as the
written conffitutions of the feveral flates, muff have been
known to the commiffioners on both fides, as the boundaries
of the authority of the American government itfelf, and of
courfe of all authority derived from that government. But th6
right of facrificing individuals, even on the ground of public
neeeffity, belongs only to that power in a ftate, which is vefled
with the eminent domain, a domain infeparable from empire. F'att. B. 4" f 12. Ibid. B. I. c. 2 . f. 244. 245. On
the revolution, the eminent domain was vefted in the people
of America, in their refpe~tive State Legiflatures ; and it could
not be divefled and transferred, without an exprefs grantby the
fame authority. The debates that arofe in the Britijb Parliament on the fubjed of the treaty, fhew, likewife, that the Britif Commiffioners were fenfible, that the powerof the American Commiflioners did not extend to the repeal of any State
law. On the faith of the Virginia law, many citizens colleded their eitates from other hands, and paid them intothe treafury; and, therefore, even if the treaty requires a payment of
thofe'debts, the refponfibility ought only to attach upon the
State. If the Jirginialaw had made a dired and unqualified
confifcation, there would be no doubt of its validity ; but it
difcharges the debtor as much as if it had been a confifcation,
and being difcharged, it can be no reafon to revive the debt,
that the difcharge was procured by a voluntary payment. Upon
the whole, the adl of Affeinbly amounts, fuliftantially, to a confifcation ; which means nothing more, than A bringing into the
public Treafury the confifcated proparty ; and the State may,
if fhe pleafes, reffore it in that cafe, as well as in the cafe of a
difcretion exprefsly referred, or in the cafe of a forfeiture for
treafon, or felony.
Jfilcocks, for the Plaintiff in error. It is neceffary, If, to
afcertain the meaning of the ads of the Legiflatureof Virginia ; and 2d, the operation of the treaty of peace, in relation to
thofe ads.
I. That the Legiflature of Virginia did not mean to confifcate debts, is evident from the declaration contained in the preamble, that fuch a confifcation is not agreeable to the cuftom
of nations ; and where the enading claufe is doubtful, the preAfter providing
amble will furnifh a key to the conftrudfion
therefore, for the fequeftration of real eflate, the law proceeds
merely to permit the payment of Briti/b debts into the public
Treaftiry. There is nothing compulfory on the debtor - all
debtors
f
, VOL. 111.

21S9

C ,asruled and adjudged in the

1796. debtors are not enjoined to pay; and no debtor is reftrained from
.r

remitting to his Britiz creditor. Even, indeed, if a bare requeftration had been intended, there never could be terms more
defeaive. The Legiflature only fays, if a debtor chufes to pay

his debt into the Treafury, he fhall be indemnified ; and, in a
fubfequent a&, when the State declares the amount for which

fe will be refponfible, (the value of the money paid with intereft) fhe does not determine, whether the payment by the
creditors.
American debtors, was a difcharge from the Britift
To pay the Britifh creditor in that way, would be manifefily
unjuff; but if the American debtor is reimburfed the value'of
what he paid,.with intereff, he has no right to complain.
II. In examining the effe& of the treaty, if it is conceded,
that the Virginia a& extinguifhed the debt, it may be affumed,
that the commiffioners had power to enter into the treaty. That
inftrument, therefore, is the fupreme law of the land : and,
upon the whole, it is highly favourable to America. Treaties
ought to be confirued liberally; but it would be illiberal to
conftrue this treaty, fo as to prevent the recovery of bona fide
debts. The Britih Commifflioners gave up a great deal ; but
they were particularly anxiouS on two points, the property of
the loyalifts, and the fecurity of the Brityh debts. It is ohje&ed, that the treaty does not make any exprefs mention of the repeal of State laws : but the laws interfering with the obje& of
the fourth article were fo numerous, that, probably, the commiffioners did not know them all ; and it was fafelt to refortto
general expreftions. The words " heretofore contraaed,"
mean debts contra &ed before the revolution ; and include not
only exifling debts, at the time of forming the treaty, but all
debts contra&ed before that memorable epoch, though extinguiffied by the als of State Legiflatures, without the confent,
or co-operation, of the Britijh creditors. The words that
"creditors fhall meet with no lawful impediment in the recoveryof all fuch debts," mean, that when the creditors apply to a
court ofjufice, no law fhall be pleaded in bar to a judgment
for their debts. What elfe, indeed, could reafonably be the
obje& of the Britih Miniffer, who was bound to prote 6 E the
commerci:,l interefts of his nation, and who infifteA on the infertion of the fourth article ? Could he mean to relinquifli all
debts paid into the public treafury of the different States ?.
Then, if all had been fo paid, the article was nugatory. But
the impediments referred to, muil have been the exifling impediments, and not impediments to be afterwards created ; and
the entbrcement of the former would be, on general principles, as unjuft to the Britifh creditor, as the introduaion of the
latter. Befide., if the former defcription of impediments was
rot contemplated, Britih,creditors were in a worfe predica•meat

SUnPREME COURT

of the United 'States.

ment, than loyalifts, owners of confifcated real efrate, in whofe
796.
favor, it was ftipulated, that a Congreffional recommendation .
fhould be made.
Lewis, for the Plaintiff in error. The individuals of different nations enter into contra6s with each other, upon a prefumption, that, in cafe of a war, debts will not be confifeated.
The prefumption is founded upon the uniform praclice of the
monarchies of Europe ; and the national charader of the Aimerican Republic is interefted that a more rigorous policy fhould'
not be introduced. Congrefs, indeed, never attempted the feizure of debts ; and very few ot the States have paffed confifcating laws. It is'now', then, to be enquired, ift, Had the Legiflature of Virginia a competent apthority to extinguifh the
debt ? 2d, If the Legiflature had fuch an authori'ty, has it been
exercifed ? And 3dly, if the authority was lawfully exercifed,
what is the effet of the treaty of peace.
ift. If the power to confifcate debts exifled, it exifted in the
United States, and not in the individual flates. It has been
admitted, that Congrefs poffeffed tthe Fower of war and peace;
and that the right of cofififcation emanates from that fource.
All A4merica was concerned in the war, and it feems naturally
to follow, that all 4merica (not the conflituent parts, refpec-.
tively) was entitled to the emoluments of confifcation. It is
true, that when a civil war breaks out, each party is entitled
to the rights of war, as between independent nations ; and, it
is not denied, that Firginiawas vefted, at the revolution, with
all the eminent domain attached to empire, which was not de*
legated to Congrefs, as the head of the confederation. Such
was the peculiar flate of things, that although Firginiamight,
in any future war, have a&ed as the pleafed, in the war thef)
fubfifting ihe had no eledion ; all the powers of war and peace
were vefted in Congrefs, not in the legiflatures of the feveral
fates. When it is faid, that even the Britiflj courts recognize
the validity of a ftate confifcation ; it hould be remembered,
that the cafe alluded to, arofe from a law of treafon, and the forfeiture for treafon, properly belonged to the flate of Georgia.
-1H. B!. 148. 9. Sc, when it is faid, that the a6 of Virginia"
was paffed, prior to the completion of the articles of confederation, it is fufficient to anfwer, that the fame objeffion has
already beenover-ruled in Doane & Penhaliow.* It is abfurd
to fuppofe,,that Congrefs and Virginiacould, at the Came time,
poffefs the powers of war and peace. The war was waged
againif all America, as one natipn, or community; and the
peace was concluded on the fame principles. Before the revolution, the power of confifeation was vefted in the King, not
in the Parliament. When the revolution commenced, conventions, committees of fafety, and other popular affociations,
were
1 See ant. p.

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the
1796.

were formed, even while the legiflatures of' the feveral flates
were in feflion. The people affumed themfelves, in the firif infiance, the powers of war and peace, but quickly and wifely
vefted them in Congrefs. At what period, then, could the
flate legiflatures affert that they poffeffed thofe powers ? All
the property of the enemy, likewife, of whatever kind, was
booty of war, and belonged to the Union. The authorities
fay, that one belligent power may confifcate debts due from
its fubjeds, to the fubjeds of the other belligerent power;
but it is no where faid, that a member of any belligerent power, a conflituent part of the nation, poffeffes fuch authority. The
eminent domain of Virginia muff, therefore, be confined to
internal affairs ; and it is not fuflicient to obje&, that the prop ertyof the debt in queflion, was within the limits of her territory, and, therefore, was fubjed to her laws. The inference
would be falfe, even if the prernifes were true: but the premifes are unfounded; for a debt is always due where the creditor
refides, except in the cafe of an obligation, which is due, where
the inffrument is kept. i Roll. AJr. 9o8. pl. I. 4. Ibid. 9o9.
PL T. 7. Salk. 37 4 Burn. Ecc. L. 157.
2d. & 3d. On the fecond and third points, there can be but
little added to the arguments already advanced. If laws change
accordi'ng to the manners of times, as reafon and authority inculcate (P. L. Raym. 882.) the ad of Virginia fhould be fo
expounded as to conform to the modern law of nations, which
is adverfe to the confifction of debts. The right of fequeftration may exfft (and that is all the cafe in the Old Law of E,
v.idence, p. can prove) but Bynkerfhook fays exprefsly, that
a debt not exag/ed, revives upon the peace ; and, in the prefent
inflance, the payment was furely voluntary, without force of
any kind.
THE CoUtrT, after great confideration, delivered their opinions, feriatim, as follow :
CH C,
z iic.-The Defendants in' error, on th
day of July, 7 74, paffed their penal bond to FarrellandJones,
for the payment of C. 2,976 it 6, of good Britif money; but
the condition of the bond, or the time of payment, does not
appear on the record.
On the 2oth of O8ober, 1777, the legiflature of the commonweal th of Vrginia, paffed a law tofiequofler Britifl property. In the 3 d fedion of the law, it was enaded, '.' that it fhould
be lawfulfor any citizen of Virginia, owing money to a fubjed of Great Britain, to pay the fame, or any part thereof,
from time to time, as he fhould think fit, into the loan office,
taking- thcreout a certificate for the fame, in the name of the
creditor, with an indoifement, under the hand of the coinmiffioner of the faid office, exprefling the name of the payer ; and

Thall

SUPrEME

COURT

of the United States.

fhall deliver fuch certificate to the governor and the council' 1796.
whofe receipt (hall difcharge him from fo much of the debt. A,,-,J
And the governor and the council fiball, in like mannor, lay
before the General Affembly, once in every year, an account
of thefe certificates, fpecifying the names of the perfons by,
andfor whom they were paid; and fhall fee to the fafe keeping
of the fame; fubjeI7 to the future direflions of the legiflature.
provided, that the governor and the council may make fuch
allowance, as they fhall think reafonable, out of the INTEREST
of the money fo paid into the loan office, to the wives and
children, reiiding in the fate, offucb creditor.
On the 26th of April, 1780, the Defendants in error, paid into the loan office of Virginia, part of their debt, to wit, 3,111
1-9 dollars, equal to C. 933 14 o Virginia currency; and
obtained a certificate from the commiilioners of the loan office,
and a receipt from the governor and the council of Virginia,
agreeably to the above, in part recited law.
The Defendants in error being fued, on the above bond, in
the Circuit Court of Virginia, pleaded the above law, and the
payment above flated, in bar of fo much of the Plaintiff's debt.
The plaintiff, to avoid this bar, replied the fourth article of
the Definitive Treaty of Peace, between Great Britain and
.the United States, of the 3 d of Siptember, 1783. To this replication there was a general demurrer and joinder. The Circuit Court allowed the dtemurrer, and the plaintiff brought
the prefent writ of error.
. The cafe is of very great importance, not only from the
property that depends on the decifion, but becaufe the effec
and operation of the treaty arc neceffarily involved. I wifled
to decline fitting in the caufe, as I had been council, fome
years ago, in a fuit in Maryland, in favour of American debtrs; and I'confulted with my brethren, who unanimouziy advifed me not to withdraw from the bench. I have endeavored to
divefr myfelf of all former prejudices, and to form an opinion
with impartiality. I have diligently attended to the arguments
of the learned council, who debated the feveral queffions, that
were made in the caufe, with great legal abilities, ingenuity
'and 0ill. I have given the fubje&, fince the argument, my
delibcrate inveffigation, and fliail, (as briefly as the cafe will
permit,) deliver the refult of it with great diffidence, and thc
higheft refoedt for thofe, who entertain a different opinion. I
folicit, and I hope I fhall meet with, a caindid allowance for the
many imperfeclions, which may be difcovered in obfervations
hatily drawn up, in the intervals of attendance in court, and
the confideration of other very important caes.
Thefirfl point raifed by the council for the Plaintiff in error was," that the legiflature of Virginiahad no right to make
the

.42.2

1796.
N-o

'

CASES i'uled

'and adjudged in the

the law, of the 2oth O17oaer, 1777, above in part recited. If this
objeStion is eftablifhed, the judgment of the Circuit Court
muft be reverfed; becaufe it deltroys the Defendants plea in
bar, and leaves him without defence to the Plaintiff's a&ion.
This obje6aion was maintained on difertnt grounds by the
Plaintiff's cotncil. One of them (Mr. Tlghman) contended,
that the legiflature of Virginia had no right to confifcate any
Brtib property, becaufe Virginia was part of the difmeinbered empire of Great Britain, and the Plaintiff and Defendants were, all of them, members of the Britih nation, when th'
debt was contrafied, aimd'therefore, that the laws of independant nations do not apply to the cafe; and, if applicable, that the
legiflature of Virginia was not juffified by the modern law and
praffice of European nations, in confifcating private debts.
In fupport of this opinion, he cited Fattel Lib. 3. c. 5. f- 77,
who expreffes himfelf thus : " The fovereign has naturally the
fame right over what his fubje6ts may be indebted to enemies.
Therefore, he may confifcate debts of this nature, if the term
of payment happen in the time of war. But at prefent, in regard to the advantage and fafety of Commerce, all the fovereigns
of Europe have departed from this rigour; and, as this ctlom
has been generally received, he, who fhould aa contrary to it,
would injure the public faith; for ftrangers trufled his fubje~ls, only from a firm perfuafion, that the general cuflom would
be.obferved."
The other council for the Plaintiff in error (Mr. Lewis)
denied any power in the Virginia'legiflature, to confifcate any
Britifb property, becaufe all fuch power belonged exclufively
to Con~refs ; and he contended, that if Virginia had a power
of confifecation, yet, it did not extend to the confifcation of debts
by the modern law and praffice of nations.
I would premife that this objeaion againft the right of the
Virginia le-iflature to confifcate Britih property, (and efpe.cially debts) is made on the part of Briti/h fubjeffs, and after
the treaty of peace, and not by the government of the Unzited
States. I would alfo remark, that the law of Virginia was
made after the declaration of independence by Virginia, and
.alf by Conarefs ;and feveral years before the Confederationof
the United States, which, although agreed to by Congrefs on
the 15th of November, 1777, and afl hnted to by ten ifates, in
J778, was onlyfinally completed and ratified on the ift of
March, 178t.
1 am of opinion thatthe exclifive right of confifcating, during the war, all andeveryfpecies of BritiA property, within the
territorial limitsof Virginia, refided only in the Legiflature of
that commonwealth. I ihall hereafter confider whether the law
Qf the 29th of O.'Zqbcr 1777, operatqd to conlfrate or extingui/h

Briti 4

SUPREME COURT

of the United States,

:Britijh debts, contraded before the war. It is worthy of re- 1796.
membrance, that Delegates and Reprefentatives were ele&ed,
by the people of the feveral counties and corporations of Virginia, to meet in general convention, for the purpofe of framing a NEW government, by the authority of the-people only ; and

that the faid Convention met on the 6th of May, and continued in fefflon until the 5 th of J'uy 1776 ; and, in virtue .of
their delegated power, eftabliffhed a corftitution, or form of government, to regulate and determine by whom, and in what
manner, the authority of the people of Virginia was thereafter

to be executed. As the people of that country were the genuine fource and fountain of all power, that could be rightfully exercifed within its limits ; they had therefore an unqueffionable right to grant it to whom they pleafed, and
under what reftriaions or limitations they thought proper.
The people of Virginia, by their Conflitution orfundamental law,
granted and delegated all their Supreme civil power toa Legiflature, an Executive, and a Yudiciary; Thefirf/ to make; the

fecond to execute ; and the loft to declare or expound, the laws
of the Commonwealth. This abolition of the Old Government,
and this eftabliffhrent of a new one was the higheff aa of power, that any people can exercife. From the moment the people
of Virginia exercifed this power, all dependence on, and conneaqion with Great Britain abfolutely and forever ceafed;
and no formal declaration of Independence was neceffary, although a decent refpc& for the opinions of mankind required a
Kleclaration of the caufes, which impelled the feparation ; and
was proper to give notice of the event to the nations of Europe.
-1I hold it as unqueftionable, that the Legiflature of Virginia
eftablifhed as I have ifated by the authority of the people, was
for ever thereafter invefted with the fupreme andfovereign pow-

er of thef ate, and with authority to make any Laws in their

diferetion, to afre& the lives, liberties, and property-of all the
citizens of that Commonwealth, with this exception only, that

fuch laws fhould not be repugnant to the Conflitution, orfulda.mental law, which could be fubje& only to the controul of the
body of the nation, in cafes not to be defined, and which will
always provide for themfelves. The legiflative power of every nation can only be reftrained by its own conflitution : and it
is the duty of its courts of juftice not to queftion the validity
of any law made in purfuance of the confihtution. There is no
"queftion but the a& of the Virginia Legiflature (of the 2oth of
Oc5ober 1777) was within the authority granted to them by the

people of that country ; and this being admitted, it is a neceffary refult, that the law is obligatory on the courts of Virginia,
and, in my opinion, on the courts of the United States. If
Virginia as afovereign, State, violated the ancient or moderna
law

224

CAsS

ruled and adjudged in the

1796. law of nations, in making the law of~the 2oth of O 7ober 1777,
/fhe was anfwerable in her political capacity to the Britifh nation, whofe fubjeds have been injured in-confcquence of that
law. Suppofe a general right to confifcate Britijh property, is
admitted to be in Congrefs, and Congrefs had confifcated all
Briti/hi property within the United States, including private
debts : would it be permitted to contend in any court of the
United States, that Congrefs had no power to confifcate fuch
debts, by the modern law of nations ? If the right is conceded to be in Congrefs, it neceffarily follows, that fhe is the
judge of the exercife of the right, as to the extent, node, and
mann'er. The fame reafoning is ftridly applicable to JVirginia,
if confidered a fovereign nation; provided fhe had not
delegated fuch power to Congrefs, before the making of the
law of Oflober 1777, which I will hereafter confider.
In June 1776, the Convention of Virginiaformally declar-

ed, that Virginia was a free, fovereigi, and independent flate ;
and on the 4 th of July, 1776, following, the United States, in
Congrefs afdembled, declared the Thirteen United Golonies free
and independent flates; and that asfich, they had full power to
levy war, conclude peace, &c. I confider this as a declaration, not
that the United Coloniesjointly, in a collee~ive capacity, were
independent flates, &c. but that each of them was a fovereign
and independent ftate, that is, that each of them had a right
to govern itfelf by its own authority, and its dwn laws, without any controul from any other power upon earth.
Before thefe folemn acs of feparation from the Crown of
Great Britain, the war between Great Britain and the United Colonies, jointly, andfeparately, was a civil war; but

inflantly, on that great and ever menorable event, the war,
changed its nature, and became a PUBLIC war between independenr governments ; and immediately thereupon ALL the

rights of public war (and all the other rights of an independent
nation) attached to the government of Virginia ; and all the
for.'mer political connexion between Great Britain and Virgi-

nia, and alfo between their refpci-five fubjeds, were totally difl'lved; and not only the two nations, but all the fub-

jefts of each, were in a ftate of war ; precifely as in the prefent war between Great Britain and France. lVatt. Lib. 3.
c. 18,f 292. to 295. lib. 3. c- 5.f 70- 72 and 73.
From the 4 th of Jaly, 1776, the American States were defalo,
as well as de jure, in the poffeflion and afual exercife of all
the rights of independent governments. On the6th of February,
1778, the King of France entered into atreaty of alliance with

the UnitedStates ; and on the 8th of O-i. 1782, a treaty of Ami-

ty and Commerce was concluded between the United States
and the States General of the United Provinces. I have ever
confidered

SUPREMR

COURT

of the United States.

confidered Jt as the eftablifbed do rine of the United States,
that their independence originated from, and commenced with,
the declaration of Congrefs, on the 4 th of July, 1776; and that
no other period can be fixed on for its commencement; and that
all laws made by the legiflatures of the feveral flates, after the
declaration of independence, were the laws of fovereign and
independent governments.
That Jirginiawas part of the difmembered Britifi empire,
can, in my judgment, make no difference in the cafe. No
fuch diffinftion is taken by Pattell (or any other writer) but
Pattell, when confidering the rights of war between two parties abfolutely independent, and no longer acknowledging a
common fupcrior (precifely the cafe in queftion) thus expreffes himfelf, Lib. 3. c. 8 f.295. " In fuch cafe, the ftate
is diffolved, and the war between the two parties, in every eJpeel, is the fame with that of a public war between two diferent nations." And Fattel denies, that fubjeils can acquire
property in things taken during a civIL war.
That the creditor and debtor were members of the fame empire, when the debt was contraled, cannot (in my opinion)

diflingtiiih the cafe, for the fame reafong.

A moil arbitrary

claim was made by the parliament of Great Britain, to make
laws to bind the people of America, in all cafes whatfoever, and
the King of Great Britain, with the approbation of parliament, employed, not only the national forces, but hired foreign
mercenaries to compel ftibmiflion to this abfuid claim of omnipotent power. The Yefiftance againift this claim was j)fi, and
independence became neceffary; and the people of the United
Stares announced to the people of Grcat Britain, " that they
would hold them, as the reft of mankind, enemies in war, in
peace, friends." On the declaration of independence, it was,
in the option of any fubjed of Great Britain, to join their
brethren in America, or to remain fubje&s of Great Britain.
Thofe who joined us were entitled to all the benefits of our
freedom and independence; but thofe who elected to continue
fiubjeds of Great Britain, expofed themfelves to any lofs, that
might arife therefrom. By their adhering to the enemies of
the United States, they voluntarily became parties to the injuftice and oppreffion of the Britifh government ; and they alfo
contributed to carry on the war, and to enflave their former
fellow citizens. As members of the Britijb government, from
their own choice, they became perfonally anfwerable for the
condud of that 'government, of which they remained a part;
and their property, wherever found (on land or water) became liable to confifcation. On this ground, Congrefs on the
2 4 th of 7uly, 1776, confifcated any Britij property taken on
the feas. See 2 Ruth. ln/l jib. 2. c. 9.f 13. p. 531. 559. Fatt.
lib.
V0o.
II.
Gg

I796i
'oy-

226

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the

1796. lib. 2. c. 7.f 81. &c.
-.d xbi & i1)3.

8.f 344. lib. 3. c. 5. f 74. & c. 9. f

The Britih creditor, by the condu& of his fovereign, became

an enemy to the commonwealth of V/irginia; and thereby his
debt was forfeitable to that government, as a compenfation for
the damages of an unjuji war.
It appears to me, that every nation at war with another is

juftifiable, by the general andJtria law of nations, to feize and
confifcate all moveable property of its enemy, (of any kind or
nature whatfoever) wherever found, whether within its territory, or not. Bynkerfimek .9. 1. P. de rebus bellicis. Lib. I. c. 7.
p. 175. thus delivers his opinion. " um ea fit be/li conditio
vt hoj es fint, omni jure, fpoliati profcriptique, rationis 9/te,
quafcunque res hoq/Ium, apudhoets inventas, Dowinum mutare,
et Fifo cedere." " Since it is a condition of war, that enemies,
by every right, may be plundered, and feized upon, it is rCafonable that whatever effe&s of the enemy are found with us
who are his enemy, fhould change their mafter, and be confifcated, or go into the treafiry." S. P. Lee on Capt. c. 8.p. iiY.
S. P. -.Burl. p. 2o9.f i2.p. i9.f.p.
2,2if ii. Bynkerjhnek
the fame book, and chaptcr, page 177..thus expreffes himfelf:
" . uoddxi de actionibus reate publicandis ita demum obtinet.

Si qucod fibditi n9/lri h/tibus ng/lris debent, princeps afubditis fuis, revera exegerit : Si exegerit reeit folutum eji, si, non

exegerit, pace fiaia, revivifcit jus priflinum creditoris; quia
occupatio, qux belt fit, magis in faclo, quam in poteflate j'ris
con/jut. Nomina igitur, non exafta, tempore belli quodammodo intermori videntur, fed per pacem, genere quodanz poJflir niz, ad priorem dominum reverti. Secundum ,hcec inter gentes

fere convenit ut nominibus bellopublicatis,pace deinaefafla, exa.'a cefeanturperiiffe, et inaneant extint..;, non autem exatfa
revivificant, et reofltuantur veris creditoribus."
" What [ have faid of things in aflion being rightfully confifeated, holds thus : If the prince truly exafs from his fub"je6f , what they owed to the enemy; if he fhall have exa&ed
it, it is rightfully paid, if he fhall not have exa~ed it, peace
being made, the former right of the creditor revives ; becaufe
" the feizure, which is made during war, confiffs more infafi
than in right. Debts, therefore, not exaded, feem as it
were to be forgotten in time of war, but upon peace, by a
kind of pogliminy, return to their former proprietor. Ac" cordinoly, it is for the moft part agreed among nations,
"hat things in afTion, being confifcated in war, the peace be" ing made, thofe which were paid are deemed to have peri/hed,.
" and remain extinel ; but tholfe not paid revive,
and are re" fored to their true creditors.
J/att. lib. 4. f2 2. S. P. Lee
"

"on Capt. c. 8. p iI8.,"
That

SUPREME COURT of the United Statei.
That this is the law of nations, as held in Great Britain, appears from Sir Thomas Parker's Rep. p. 267 (11 Wiliam 3d)
in which it mas determined, that chofes in aflion belonging to
an alien enemy areforfeitable to the crown of Great Britain;
but there muft be a commiffion and inquifition to entitle the
crown,; and if peace- is concluded before inquifition taken, it
difharges the canie offorfeiture.
The right to confifcate the property of enemies, during war,
is derived from ajfate of war, and is called the rights of war.
This right originates from felf-prefervation, and is adopted as
one of the means to weaken an enemy, and to ffrengthen our'elves. Ju/lice, alfo, is another pillar on which it may reft.;
to wit, a right to reimbu,f> the expence of an unjruj war.
V/att. lib, 3. c. 8.f. 138, & c. 9'f 16r.
But it is faid, if Virginia had a right to confifcate Briti#
property, yet by the modern law, and pradtice of European nations, fhe was not juftified in confifcating debts due from her
citizens to fubjefs of Great Britain; that"is, private debts.
Yattell is the only author relied on (or that car, be found) to
maintain the diffin&ion between confifeating private debts,
and other property of an enemy. He admits the right to confifcatefuch debts, if-the term of payment happen in the time of
war; but this limitation on the right is no where elfe to be
found. His opinion alone will not be fufficient to refiricq the
right to that cafe only. It does not appear in the prefent cafe,
whether the time of piyment happened before, or during the
war. If this reftri&ion is juft, the Plaintiff ought to have
•fhewn the fad. Fattell adds, " at prefent, in regard to the
advantages and fafety of commerce, all the fovereigns of Europe
have departed from this rigour ; and this eujiom has been generally received, and he who fhould af contrary to it (the cuftom) would injure the public faith." From theft expreffions it
may be fairly inferred, that,'by the rigour of the law of nations,
privat' debts to enemies might be confifcated, as well as any
other of their property ; but that a general cz~,/lom had prevailed in Europe to the contrary ; founded on commercial reafons.
The law of nations may be confidered of three kinds, to wit,

general, conventional, or cuiomary. Thefri/ is univeifal, or
efabliffied by the general confent of mankind, and binds all
nations. Thefecond is founded on exprefs confent, and is not
univerfal, and only binds thofe nations that h ive affented to it.
The third is founded on TACIT confent ; and is only obligatory on thofe nations, who hove adopted it. The relaxation or
departure from thejfrie7 rights of war to confifcate private
debts, by the commercial nations of Europe, was not binding
on the ffate of Virginia, becaufe founded on cuflom only; and
tfhe was at liberty tjo reject, or adopt the cty/om, as fle pleafed
The

1796.

228

CASES ruled and adjudged in the

1796. The condu6l of nations at war, is generally governed and linmited by their exigencies and neceffities. Great Britain could
not claim from the United States, or any of them, any relaxation of the general law of nations, during the late war, be-

caufe the did not confider it, as a civil war, and much lefs as
a public war, but the gave it the odious name of rebellilan; and

fhe refifed to the citizens of the United States the frirights of ordinary war.
It cannot be forgotten, that the Parliament of Great Britain,
by ftatute (ib Geo. 3. c. 5. in 1776) declared, that the veffels

and cargoes belonging to the people of Virginia, and the twelve
,other colonies, found and taken on the high feas, fhould be
liable to feizure and confifcation, as the property of open enemies ; and, that the mariners and crews flhould be taken and
confidered as having voluntarily entered into the fervice of the
King of Great Britain ; and that the killing and deftroying
the perfons and property of the Americans, before the pafling
this a&, was jufl and lawful: And itis well known that, in
confequence of this flatute, very confiderable property of the
citizens of J/irginia was feized on the high feas, and confifcated ; and that other confiderable property, founid within
that Commonwealth, was feized and applied to the ufe of the
Britf/h army, or navy, Yattellib. 3. c. 2. fec. 19r. fays, and
reafon confirms h. opinion, 41That whatever is lawful for
one nation to do, in time of war, is lawful for the other."
The law of nations is part of the municipal law of GreatBri-

tain, and by her laws all moveable property of enemies, found
within the kingdom, is confidered as forfeited to the crown, as
the head of the nation ; but if no inquifition is taken to afcertoin the owners to be alien enemies, before peace takes place,
the caufe of forfeiture is difeharged, by the peace ipfofato.
Sir Thomas Parker'sRep. pa. 267. This do&rine agrees with
.Bynk. lib. s. c. 7. pa. 177. and Lee on Capt. eb. 8. p. ii 8 . that
debts not confifeated and paid, revive on peace. Lee fays,,
" Debts, therefore, which are not taken bold of, feem, as it

were, fufpended and forgotten in time of war; but by a peace
return to their former proprietor by a kind of potliminy." Mr.
Lee, who wrote fince J/attel, differs from him in opinion, that
private debts are not confifcable, pag. 114. He thus delivers
himfelf : '4 By the law of nations, Rights and Credits are not

lefs in our power than other goods ; why, therefore, fhould we
regard the rights of war in regard to one, and not as to the
other .PAnd when nothing occurs, which gives room for a

proper diftinaion, the general law of nations ought to prevail."
He gives many examples of conffcating debts, and concludes,
1p.. - " All
119)
that
all
I whichI prove,
I
. not
I 'only
... aaions, but
9thqc

SUvPRFA,

COURT of the United States.

229

other things whatfoever, are forfeited in time of war, and are 1796.
often exaced."
Great Britain does not confider herfelf bound to depart
from the rigor of the general law of nations, becaufe the' comiercial powers of Europe wilh to adopt a more liberal practice. It may be recolle&ed, that it is an eftablifhed principle
of the law of nations, " that the coods of a friend are free in
an enemy's vefill ; and an enemy's goods lawful prize in the
veffel of a friend." This may be called the general law of
nations. In 1780 the Emprefs of Ruffia propofed a relaxation of this rigor of the laws of nations, " That all the effe6ts
belonging t- the fubjebls of the belligerentpowers fhall be free
on board neutral veffels, except only contraband articles."
This propofal was acceded to by the neutral powers of Sweden, Denmark, the States General of the United Provinces,
Pruiaand Portugal; France and Spain, two of (he powers
at war, did not oppofe the principle, antd Great Britain only
declined to adopt it, and fhe fRill adheres to the rigorous principle of the law of nations. Can this condud of Great Britain be objeded to her as an uncivilized and barbarouspractice? The confifcating private dbts by Virginia has been
branded with thofe terms of reproach, and very improperly in
my opinion.
It is admitted, that Firiniacould not confifcate private
debts without a violation of the modern law of nations, yet if in
fafi, fhe has fo done, the law is obligatory on all the citizens of [irginia, and on her Courts of Juffice ; and, in my
opinion, on al! the Courts of the United States. If /irginia
by fitch condua violated the law of nations, fhe was anfweraable to Great Britain, and fuch injury could only be redreffed
in the treaty ofpeace.
Before the eftablifhrment of the national government, Britij debts could only be fued for in the
flate court- This, aloue, proves that the feveral foates pofTfed a power over debts.
If the crown of Great Britain had,
according to the mode of proceeding in that country, confifcatedj or foifeited American debts, would it have been permitted
in any of the courts of [Vejlminiter Hall, to have denied the
right of the crown, and that its power was reifrained by the
modern law of nations? Would it not have been anfwered,
that the Brit/h nation was to jufiify her own condu6 ; but
that her courts were to obey her laws.
It appears to me, that there is another and conclufive ground,
which effedually precluded any obje&ion, finci the peace, on
the part of Great Britain, as a nation, or on the part of any
of herfzibjefls, againft the right of J/irgznia to confifcate Britijh debts, or any other Britijh property, during the war; even
on the admiffion that fuch confifcation was in violation of the
ancient or modern law 0f natiofs,

230
1796.

CASEs

ruled and adjudged in the

If the Legiflature of /irginia confifcated or extingui7edthe
debt in queftion, b'y the law of the 2oth of Oeober 1777, as
the Defendafits in error contend, this confifcation or extinguijhment, took place in 1777, flagrante Bello ; and the definitive
treaty of peace was ratified in 1783. What effeds flow from
a treaty of peace, even if the confifcation, or extinguijhment
of the debt was contrary to the law of nations, and the ftipulation in the 4th article of the treaty does not provide for the
recovery of the debt in queffion ?
I apprehend that the treaty of peace abolifles the fbjea of
the war, and that after peace is concluded, neither the matter
in difpute, nor the condud of either party, during the war,
can ever be revived, or brought into conteff again. All violencies, injuries, or damages fuftained by the government, or
peopleof either, during the war, are buried in oblivion ; and
all thofe things are implied by the very treaty of peace; and
therefore not neceffary to be expreffed. Hence it follows, that
the reflitution of, or compenfation for, Britijh property confificated, or extinguilhed, during the war, by any of the UnitedStates, could only be provided for by the treaty of peace ;
and if there had been no provifion, refpeding thefe fubje as,
in the treaty, they could not be agitated after the treaty, by the
Br'itih government, much lefs by her fubjeas in"courts of
juftice. If a nation, during a war, conduas herfelf contrary
to the law of nations, and no notice is taken of fuch condua
in the treaty of peace, it is thereby Jo far confidered lawful,
as never afterwards to be revived, or to be a fubje& of complaint.
Jattel lib. 4. fii. 21. p. i21. fays, ," The fiate of things
at the in/ant of the treaty, is held to be legitimate, and any
change to be made in it requires an exprefs fpeciflcation in the
treaty; confequently, all things not mentioned in the treaty,
are to remain as they were at the conclufionoof it.-All the
damages caUfed during the war are likewife buried in oblivion,
and no plea is allowable for thofe, the reparation of which is
not mentioned in the treaty: They are looked on as if they had
never happened." The fame principle applies to injuries done
by one nation to another, on occafion of, and during the war.
See Grotius lib. 3. c. 8. Jedi. 4.
The Baron De Wolfuis, i2z2, fays, " De quibus nihil dictum ea manent quo funt loco." Things of which nothing is
Lfaid remain in ihe ftate in which they are.
It is the opinion of the celebrated and judicious Do'or Rutheiforth, that a nation'in ajuft ivar may feize upon any moveable goods of an enemy, (and he makes no diftindion as to
private debts) but that whilft the war continues, the nation
has, of right, nothing but the cu/ody of the goods taken ; and

SUPREME COURT of

the United States

if the nation has granted to private captors (as privateers) the 1796.
property of goods taken by them, and on peace, rejlitution is
agreed on, that the nation is obliged to make reffitution, and
not the private captors ; and if on peace no reffitution is flipulated, that the full property of moveable goods, taken from
the enemy during the war, paffes, by tacit confent, to the nation that takes them. This I colled as the fubfance of his
opinion in lib. 2. c. 9, from p. 558 to 573.
t fhall conclude mly obfervations on the rigbt of Virginia
to confifcate any Britih property, by remarking, that the validity of fuch a law would not be queftioned in the Court of
Chancery of Great Britain; and I confefs the dodrine feemed
ftrange to me in an American Court of Juffice. In the cafe of
Wright and Nutt, Lord Chancellor Thurlow declared, that
he confidered an ad of the State of Georgia, paffed in 1782,
for the confifcation of the 'eal and perfonal effate of Sir 7ames
WfVright, and alfo his debts, as a law of an independent country;
and concluded with the following. obfervation, that the law of
every country, muff be equally regarded in the Courts of j uftice of Great Britain, whether the law was a barbarousor civilifed infitution, or wife or fooliflb. H. Black. Rep. p. i49.
In the cafe of FolliotagainffOgden, Lord Loughborough, Chief
Juffice of the Court of Common Pleas, in delivering the
judgmeit of the court, declared " that the a& of the State of
New York, paffed in 1779, for attainting, forfeiting, and confifcating the real and perlonal effate of Folliott, the Plaintiff,
was certainly of as full validity, as the ad of any independent
State. H. Black. Rep. p. 135. On a writ of error Lord
K~enyon, Chief Juffice of the, Court of King's Bench, and
judge Groe, delivered dire& contrary fentiments ; but judges
AYhurjl and Buller were filent. 3 Term Rep. p. 726.

From thefe obfervations, and the authority of Bynker~oek,
Lee, Burlamaque, and Rutherforth, I conclude, that Virginia
had a right, as a fovereign and independent nation, to confifcate
any Briti)b property within its territory, unlefs fhe had before
delegated that power to Congrefs, which Mr. Lewis contended fhe had done. The proof of the allegation that Virginid
had transferred tl~is authority to Congrefs, lies on thofe who
make it ; becaufe if fhe had parted with fuch power it muff be
conceded, that ihe once rightfully poffeffed it.
It has been enquired what powers Congrefs poffeffed fi'om
thefir/ meeting, in September 1774, until the ratification of
the articles of confederation,' on the ift of W4rarch, 1781 ? It.
appears to me, that the powers of Congrefs, during that whole
period, were derived from the people they reprefented, exprefsly
given, through the n5edium of their State Conventions, or
State Legiflaturcs i or that after they were exercifed they
were
impliedly

232
1796.

CASES

ruled and adjudged in the

impliedly ratified by the acquiefcence and obedience of the

~people. After the confederacy was compleated, the powers of
Congrefs refted on the authority of the State Legifiatures, and
the implied ratifications of the people; and was a government

over governments. The powers of Congrefs originated from
neceflity, and arofe out of, and were only limited by, events
or, in other words, they were revolutionary in their very nature. Their extent depended on the exigencies and neceffities
of public affairs. It was abfolutely and indifpenfably neceffary that Congrefs fh ould poffefs the power of conduding the
war againf Great Britain, and therefore if not expreisly given
by all, (as it was by fome of the States) I do not hefitate to
fay, that Congrefs did rightfully poffefsfucb power. The authority to make war, of neceffity implies the power to make
peace ; or the war muff be perpetual.. I entertain this general
idea, that the feveral States retained all internal fovereignty ;
and that Congrefs properly poffeffed the great rights of external
fovereignty: Among others, the right to make treaties of
commerce and alliance; as with France on the 6th of February 1778. In deciding on the powersof Congrefs, and sof the
feveral States, BEFORE the confederation, 1 fee but one fafe
rule, namely, that all the powers ACTUALLY exercifed by
Congrefs, before that period were rightfully exercifed, on the
prefumption not to be controverted, that they were fo authorized by the people they reprefented, by an exprefs, or implied
grant; and that all the powers exercifed by the State Conventions or State Legiflatures were alfo rightfully exercifed, on
thefame prefirwption of authority from the people. That Congrefs did not poffefs all the powers of war is ff-evident from
this confideration alone, that fle never attempted to lay any
kind of tax on the peple of the United States, but relied altogether on the State Legiflatures to impofe taxes, to raife money
to carry on the war, and to fink the emifflions of all the paper
money iffue d by Congrefs. It was exprefsly provided, in the
8th article of the confederation, that "all charges of war (and
all other expences for the common defence and general welfare)
and allowed by Congrefs, fhall be defrayed out of a common
Treafury, to be fupplied by the feveral States in proportion to

the value of the land in each State ; and the taxes for paying
tbefaid proportion,Jhall be levied by the LegflIatures of the fe-

Veral States." In every free country the power of laying taxes is confidered a legi/lative power over the property and perfons of the citizens ; and this power the people of the United
States, granted to their State Legiflatures, and they neither
could, nor did transfer it to Congrefs ; but on the contrary they
exprefsly ftipulatcd that it fhould remain with them. It is an
iklcontrovertible fact that Congrefs never attempted to confifcate

SUPREME COURT

of the' United States.

233

cate any kind of Britilh property within the United States (ex- 1796.
vept what their army, or veffels of war captured) and thence I
conclude that Congrefs did not conceive the power was vefied in
them. Some ofthe flates did exercife this power, and thence I infer, they poffeffed it.-On the s 3 d of AI'arch, 3 d of April, and
24.th of 7uly, 1776, Congrefs confifcated Britijh property i taken on the highJea.*
Thefecond point made by the council for the Plaintiff in er:
ror was, "ifthe legiflature of !irginia had a right to confifcate
Britih debt yetfhe did not exercife that, right by the a& o
the zoth Oftober, 1777.7' If this objefion is well founded, the.
P:laintiff in error muft have judgment for the money covered hy the plea of that law, and the payment under it. Tht
preamble recites, that the pulic faith, and the law and the ufage,
of nations require, that debts incurred, during the connexion
with Great Britain, fhould not be confifcated. No language.
can poflibly 'be ifronger to exprefs the opinion of the legiflature of Virginia, that Britij) debts ought not to be confifcated,
and if the words or'effed and operation, of the enating claufe,
are ambiguous or doubtful, fuch conifru&ion fhould be made
as not to extend the provifions in the enading claufe, beyond'
the intention ofthe legiflature, fo clearly expreffed in the preamble; but if the words in the enading claufc, in their nature,
import, and common underflanding, are not ambiguous, but
plain and clear, and their operation and effe& certain, there is
no room for conflrufion. It is not an uncommon cafe for a
legiflature, in a preamble, to declare their intenltion to provide for certain cafes, or to punifh certain ofences, and in
enading claufes to include other cafes, and other offences.
But i believe veryfew inffances can be found' in which the legiflature declared that a thin' ought not to be done, and afterwards did the very thing they reprobated. There can be no
doubt that. ftrong words in the enading part of a law may extend it beyond the preamble. If the preanrble is contradi6ted
by the enading claufe, as to the intention of the legiflature, it
muff prevail, on the principle that the legiflature changed their
intention.
I am of opinion, that the law of the 20th of October, 1777,
and the payment in virtue thereof, amounts either to a confifcation, or extinguiflment, of fo much of the debt as was paid
i3to the loan office of [/irginia. ift. The law makes it lawful
for a citizen of firginia indebted to a fubjed of Great Britaini
to
eSee
the Ozditanc,- of the ';oth of November, 178r.
d

see, alfo, the

Rcfolition of*the 231 of November, 178t, illwhich Congriefs recommended to the ftato, to pat's laws to punifhi ipf'atl0ons of the law at?
nations.

VOL. 111.

11 h

Z34

I796.
\....

-.

. CASES ruled ar.d adjrdged ir, the

to pay the whole, or any part, of his debt, into the loan o(ice of that commonwealth.' 2d. It direc's the debtor to take a
f..J
certificate of his payment, and to deliver it to the governor
and tli council ; and it declares that the receipt of the governor and the council Jbr the certificate fhal difcharge him (the
debtor), from fo much of the debt as he paid into the loan office.
3 d. It ena&s that the certificate fhall be fibjeO to the future direE"ion of the legiflature. And 4 thly, it provides, that the governor aid w)uncit may make fuch allowance, as they flall
think reafonable, ou t c the INTEREST of the money paid, to.
the wives and children, refiding within the ftate, o fuch creditor. The payment by the debtor into the loan office is made

a lawJrl a,.

The public receive the money,and they difchargc

the debtor, and they make the certificate (which is the evidence of the payment) fubjea to thcir dire~lion ; and they benevolently appropriate part of the money paid, to wit, the intercJt of the debt, to fuch of the family of the creditor as may
live within the flate.
l thefe aas. are plainly a leg!/flative
interpofition between, the creditor and debtor; annihilates the
right of the creditor ; and is an exercife of the right of ownerAl over the money; for the giving part to the family of the
creditor, under the reffriction of bting refidents of the flate,
or to a f'ranger, can make no differeitce. The government
of Firginiahad precifely thefaine right to difpofe of thewhole, as
of part of the debt. Whether all there aets amount to a confcfiation of the debt, or not, may be difputed according to the
different ideas entertained of the proper meaning of the word
ccifqy-aton. I am inclined to think that all thefe a&s, tollectivelv confidered, are fubftantiallv a confifeation of the debt. The
verb confifcate is derived from the latin, con with, and Pifcus
a balket, or hamper, in which the Emperor's treafure was
formerly kept. The meaning of the word to conffcate is to
transfer property from r-Rv'rE to public ufe ; or to forfeit
property to the prince, or flate. In the language of Mr. Le4
(page 118) the debt was taken bold of; and this he confiders as confifcation. But if ftrialy fpeaking, the debt was
not confifcated, yet it certainly was extinguifhed as between
the creditor and debior; the de:bt was legahy paid, and of confequence extinguifled. The flate interfered and received the
debt, and difcharged the debtor from his creditor ; and not
from thelate, as fuggefled. The debtor owed nothing to the
fPrate of Virginia, but (he had a rioht to take the debt or not at
her pleafure. To fay that the difcharge was from the'ate,
and not from the debtor, implies that the debtor was under rome
obligation or duty to pay the late, what he owed his Eritiji,
creditor. If the debtor was to remaincharged to his creditor,

notwithAtanding his payment j not one farthing would have-been
paid

SUPPLEME COURT

of the' United

taies.

paid into the loan office. Such a conPru&ion, therefore, is too vi-. f796.
lent and not to be admitted. If firginiahad confifcated Britijh
debts, and received the debt in queflion, ard f.id nothing more,
the debtor would have been difcharged by the operationiofthelaw.
Ii, the prefent cafe, there is an exprefs difcharge on payment,
certificate, and receipt.
It appears to me that the plea, by the Defendant, of the a&
,of Affembly, and the payment agreeably to its provifions, which
is admitted, is a bar to the plaintiff's adion, forfi mucdi of his
debt as he paid into the loan office; unlels the plea is avoided,
or deftroyed, by the Plaintiff's replication of the fourth article
of the Definitive Treaty of Peace, between Great Britain
and the United Statei, on the 3 d of September, 1783.
The queftion then may be flated thus: Whether the 4th
article of the faid treaty nullifes the law of Virginia, paffed
on the 2,oth of Oaober,, 1777 ; detroys the payment made
under it ; and revives the debt, and gives a right of recovery
thereof, againft the originaldebtor ?
It was doubted by one of the counfel for the Defendarats in
error (Mr. AlarJhai) whether Congrefs had a power.o make
a treaty, that could operate to annul a legiflative ad of any of
the tates, arid to deffroy rights acquired by, or veiled in individuals, in virtue of fuch ads. Another of the Defendant's
council (Mr. Campbell) exprefsly, and with great zeal, denied
that Congrefs poffeffed fich power.
But a few remarks will be neceflary to fhew the inadmiffibility of this obje6lion to the power of Congrcf .
ift. The legiflatures cfall the Qtates, have often exercifed the
power of taking the property of its citizens for the ufe-of the
public, but they uniformly compenfated the proprietors. The
,principle to maintain this right is for the public good, and to
that the intercftof individuals mufr yield. The inflances are
nany ; and among them are lands taken for forts, magazines,
or arfenals ; or for public roads, or canals ; or to ered towns,
2d. The legiflatur(s of all thu flates have often exercifed the
power of divefling rirglts veled; and even' of impairiVtr, and,
in fume inflances, of almoft annihilating the obligation of contraa7s, as by tender laws, which made an of'er to pay, and a
refufal to receive, paper money, for afpecie debt, an extinguiYment, to the amount tendercd.
3d. If the Legiflature of J'irginacould, by a law, annul any
former law ; I apprehend that the eft,:& would be to deliroy
all rights acquired under the law 6b nullified.4th. If the Legiflature of Virginia could not by ordinary
Rs of leg;flation, do thefe thing%, yet poffeffing the. fupreme
fovereign power of the ffate, fhe certainly could do them, by
41treaty of peace ; if fhe had not part- with the power or ima-

king

136

CASEs

179 6 . king fuch treaty.

~--'gated

ruled and adjudged in the

If.JVirginia had fuch power before fhe dele.,

itfollows, that afterwards chat body poffeffed it. Whether Virginia parted with the power of making
treaties of peace, will be feen by a perufal of the 9 th article of
the Confederation (ratified by all the flates, on the ift of March,
it to Congrefl,

1781,) in which it was declared, " that the United States in
Congrefs affembled, fhall have the fole and exclvfive right and

power of determiniig on peace, or war, except in the two
'cafes mentioned in the 6,h article; and of entering into treaties and alliances, with a provifo, when made, refpeafing commerce." This grant has no reftriaion, nor is there any -limitation on the power in any part of the confederation. A
right to make peace, necefFarilv includes the power of determining on what terms peacehallbe made.

A power to make

treatics muff of neceflity imply a power, to decide the terms
on which they Ihall be made : A war between two nations
can only be concluded by treaty.
Surely, the facrificing public, or private, property, to obtain
peace cannot be the cafes in which a treaty would be' void. Yatt.
lib. 2 c. 12.f i6o. 16r. p. 173. lib. 6. c. 2.f 2. It fecMs to me
that treaties made by Congrefs, according to the Confederation,
were fuperior to the laws of the flates ; becaufe the Confederation made them obligatory on all the ftates. They were fo declared by Congrefs on the 13 th of April, 1787 ; were fo admitted by the legiflatures and executives of moft of the fiates;
and were fo decided by the judiciary of thegeneral government,
and by the judiciaries of fome of the ftate governments.
If doubts could etift before the eflablifhment of the prefent
national government, they muff be entirely removed by the
Oth article of the Conflitution, which provides " That
.all treaties made, or which (hall be made, under the
authority of the United States, fball be the fupreme law of the

land; and the Judges in every State (hall be bound thereby,
any thing in the Coiylitution, or laws, of any State to the contrary notwithftanding." There can be no limitation on the
power of the people of the United States.

By their authority

the State Conflitutions were made, and by their authority the
Conflitution of the United States was eftabliflied ; and they
had the power to change or abolifh the State Confritutions, or
to make them yield to the geiaeral government, and to treaties
made by their authority. A treaty cannot be the fupreme law

of the land, that is of all the United States, if any a& of 'a

gtate Legiflature can ftand in its way. If the Conftitution of
a State (which is the fundamental law of the State, and paramount to its Legiflature) muff give way to a treaty, and fall
before it can it be queftioned, whether the lefs power, an aft
of

SUPREME

,CouRT of the United States.

237

.

of the State Legiflature, rnua not be proftrate.? It is the de- -1796.
clared will of the people of the United States that every treaty "--

made, by the authority of the United States, fhall be fuperi6r
to the Conflitution "andlaw3 of any.individual State ; and their
will alone is to decide.-If a law of 'aState, contrar.y to a
treaty, is not void, bui voidable only by a rcpeal or tbullification by a State Legiflature, this certa1in confequence follows,
that the wilt of afinall part of the UnitedStates may controul
or defeat the will of the whole. The people of Anmrica have
been pleafed to declare, that all' treaties made before the' etablifhment~of the National Conflitution, or laws of any of the
States, contrary to a treaty, thall be difrvgarded.
Four things are apparent on a view of this 6th article of
the National Conflitution.
ift. That it is Retrofpettive,
and is to be confidered in the fame'light as if the Conftitution had been eflablifhied before the making of the treaty
of 1783. !zd. That. the Conflitution, or laws, of any of
the States fibfar as either of them ihhll be found contrary to
that treaty are by force of th. faid article, proftrated before the
treaty. 3 d. That confequent!y the treaty of 1783 has fupe'ior-power to the Legijature of any State, becaufe no Legiflature of any State has any kind of power over thd Conftitution, which was its creator. 4thly. That it is the declared
duty of the State Judges to determine any Conftitution, 'or
laws of any State, conttary to that treaty (or any other) made
u fder the authority of the United States, null and void. National or Federal Judges are bound by duty and oath to the
fame condu&1.'
The argument, that Congrefs had not power to make the.
4 th article of the treaty of peace, if its intent andoperation
was to annul the laws of any of the States, and to deftroy
velled rig hts (which the Plaintiff's Council contended to be the
obje&ad effl1ed of the 41 th article) was unneceflary, buton the
fuppofition that this court poffefs a pbwer to decide, whether
this article of the treaty is within the authority delegated to
that body, by the articles of confederation.
Whether this
court conflitutionally poffefs fuch a power is not neceffary now
to determine, becauf.z I am fully fatisfied that Congrefs were
invefted with the authority to make the flipulation in the 4 th
article. If the court poffefs a power to declare treaties void,
I fhall never exercife it, but in a very clear cafe indeed. One
further remark will fhew how 'very circumfpcd the court
ought to be before they would decide againift the right of Congrefs to make the ftipulation obje&ed to. If Congre~fs had no,
power
See the oath in the at of' the 24hl of:$epterob
p. 53. f. 8. Swift',s edition.

i8q.
.
:

CASEs

1796.
k

ruled and adjudged in the

power (uider the confederation) to make the 4 th artifle of the
treaty, and for want of power that article is void, would it not
be in the option of the crown of Great Britain to fay, whether the other articles, in the fame treaty, fhall be obligatory
on the Britih nation ?
I will now proceed to the confideration of the treaty of 1783.
It is evident on a perufal of it what were the great and principal objels in view by both parties. There were four on the
part 6f the United States, to. wit. ift. An acknowledgment
of their independence, by the crown of Great Britain. 2d.
A fettlement of their we/lerx bounds. 3 d. The right of fifhery: and 4 thly. The free navigation of the Miffifppi. There
were three on the part of Great Britain, to wit, ift. A reco-

very by Briti/h Merchants, of the value inflerling money, of
debts contra6ted, by the citizen's of 4merica, before the treaty.
2d. Reflitution of the conffcated property of real Britk
fubjo6fs, and of perfons refidents in diftrids in pofifefion of
the Britifh forces, and who had not borne arms againif the
United States ; and a conditional rclloration of the confifcated

property of all other perfons: and 3 dly. A prohibition of all
future confifcations, and profecutions. The following fads
were of the moft public notoriety, at the time when the treaty
was made, and therefore muft have been very well known to
the gentlemen who affented to it. ift. That Briti/h debts,
to a'great ameunt, had been paid into fome of the State Treafuries, or loan offices, in paper money of very little value,
either under laws confifcating debts, or under laws authorifing
payment of fuch debts in paper money, and difcharging the
debtors. !zd. That tender laws had exifted in all the flates;
and that by rome of thofe laws, a tender and a refufal to accept,
by principal or factor, was declared an extinguishment of the

debt. .From the knowledge that fuch laws had exifled there
was good reafon to fear thatfimilarlaws, with the fameor lefs
confequences, might be again made, (and the facd'really happened) and prudence required to guard the Britifh treditor
againift them. 3 d. That in rome of the States property, of any
kind, might be paid, at an apprai/ement, in difcharge of any
execution. 4 th. That laws were in force in fome of the States,
at the time of the treaty, which prevented fuits by Bririjh creditors. 5 th. That laws were in force in other of the States, at the
time of the treaty, to prevent fuits by any perfon for a limited
tine. All thefe laws created legal 'impediments, of one kind
or another, to the recovery of many Britih debts, contradcd
before the war ; and in many cafes comapelled the receipt of

property infead of gold aid filver.
To fecure the recovery of*Britifln debts, it was by the latter
part of :the. 5th.atticle,,alreed as follows, " That all perfons
wh

SVPRIiiE

COURT

of th6 United States.

who have any intereff in conffcated lands, by

DEBTS,

(hould 1796.

meet with no lawful impediment in the profecution of their 'k---.
juf rights." -This pr6vifion clearly relates to debts fecured by
mortgages on lands in fee fimple, which were afterwards confifcated'; or to debts on judgments, which were a lien on lands,
which alfo were afterwards confifcated, and where fuch debts
on mortgages, or judgments, had been paid into the State
Treafuries, and the debtors difcharged. This ftipulation was
abfolutely neceflary if fuch debts were intended to be paid.
pledge; or fecurity by lien, had been confifcated and, fold.
The [
Britiflb fubjeas being aliens, could neither recover the poffef-.
fion of lands by eje6hment, nor foreclofe the equity of redemption ; nor could they claim the money fecured by a mortgage,
or have the benefit of a lien from ajudgment, if the debtor had
paid his debt into the Treafury, and been difcharged. If a
Britijh fubjedt, in either of thofe cafes, profecuted 'his juff,
right, it could only be in a court of juffice, and if an ' of the
above caufes were'fet up as a ldwful impediment, the courts
were bound to decide, whether this article of the treaty nullified the laws confifcatinf the lands, and alfo the purchafes made
under them, or the laws authorizing payment of fuch debts to
the State ; or whether aliens were enabled, by this, article, to
hold lands mortgaged to them before the war. In all thefe cafes, it feenis to me, that the courts, in which the cafes arofe,
were the only proper authority to decide, whether the cafe was
within this article of the treaty, and-the operation and effe& of
it. One inflance among many-will illuftrate my meaning.
Suppofe a mortgagor paid the mortgage money into the public
Treafury, and afterwards fold the land, would not the Britijb
creditor, under this article, be entitled to a remedy againif the
mortgaged lands ?
The 4 th article of the treaty is in thefe words: " It is
agreed that creditors, on either fide, flhall meet with no lawful
impedimentto the recovery of the full value, in fterling money,'
of all bona fide debts, heretofore contrafled."
Before 1 confider this article of the treaty, I will adopt the
following remarks, which I think7 applicable, and which may be
tO 315.
found in Dr. Rutherforth and attel. (2 Ruth. 3 o 7

p.)
The intention of
flattel lib. 2. c. 17. fed, 263 and7
the framers of the treaty, mufl be colle&ed from a view of the
whole inftrument, and from the words made ufe of by them to
exprefs their intention, or from probable or rationalconjet~ures.
If the words exprefs the meaningof the parties plainly, diflinftly, and perfe.ty, there ought to be no other means of interpretation ; but if the words are obfcure, or ambiguous, or itperfect,
recourfe muff be had to other means of interpretation, and in
thefe three cafes, we muft colle& the meaning from the words,
or

240

CAs

,ruled and adjudged in the

1796. oi from probabla or rational conjectures, or from both.

When

we colle6t the intention from the words only, as they lie in the
writing before us, it is a literal interpretation; and indeed if

the words, and the conriTu&ion of a writing, are clear and precfe, we can fcarce call it interpretation to colled the intention:
of the writer from thence. The principalrule to be obferved
in, literal interpretation,is to follow that fenfe, in refpea both.
of the words, and the conjiruction, which is agreeable to common ufe.
If the. recovefy of the prefent debt is not within the clear and,
manifeft intention and letter of the 4th article of the treaty,
and, if it was not intended by it to annul the law of Virginia,,
mentioned in the plea, and to defitroy the payment under it,
and to revive the right of the creditor againft his originaldebtor;

and if the treaty cannot effe&. all thefe things, I think the
court ought to determine in favour of the Defendants in error.
Under. this impreffioti, it is altogether unnecefilhry to notice the
feveral, rules laid down by the: Council for the Defendants in
er.oil, for the co;V ruction of the treatyI will examine the 4 th arti'cle of tl treaty in its. feveral
parts ; and endeavour to affix the plain and natural meaning
of each part.
To take the 4 th article in order as it fands.
iff. " It is agreed," that is, it is exprefily contraded'; and
it appears from what follows, that certain things fhall not take
place. This flipulation is direct. The diftindion is felf-evi,dent, between a thing, that fhall not happen, and an agreement
that. a third power fhall prevent a certain thing being done.
T'e firJl is obligatory on the parties contracting. The latter

.fill depend on 'the will of another; and although :the parties
contracting, had power to lay him under a moral obligation for
compliance, yet there is a very great difference in the two cafes. This diverfity appears in the treaty.
2d. " That creditors on either fide," without doubt meaning Britih and Ximerican creditors.
3 d. " Shall meet with no lawful impediment," that is, with

ro obi.acle (or bar) arifing from the common law, or acls of
Parliament, or ads ofCongrefs, or acts of any of the States, then
in exiftence, or thereafter to be made, that would, in any manner,
operate to prevent the recovery offuch debts, as the tr eaty contempated. A lawful impediment to prevent a recovery of a debt
can only be matter of law pleaded in bar to the adlion. If the
word lawful had been omitted, the impediment would not be
confined to matter of law. The prohibition that no lawful imppdiment fball'be interpofed, is the fame as that all lawfil impediments thall be removed. The meaning cannot be fatisfied
6y the removal of one. impediment, and leaving. another; and a
fortiori

SUPAEII E COURT of the United Stdtes.

241

,fortiori b ) taking aiway the left and leaving thegreater. Thefe I7961
words have botlla retrofpective and futyre afpect.
4th.." To the recovery,," . that is,to the right of adio.,
judgment, and execution, and receipt of tie money, without
courts of juflice, which could only be by plea,
impedimensri in.
(as in the prefent cafe) or by proceedings, after judgment, to
compelreceipt-of paper, money, or property, itffead of fier'he word recovery is very comprehenfive, and
ling money.
* operates, in the prefent cafe, to give rbmedy from the coinBrit
tha
,
0 "°i
inencement of.fui,t,'to the receipt of the i'oney.
j hritilk
is
that
rnone,
in
Jqerling
value
full,
In
the
th.
"
5
creditors.fhall not be obliged to receive paper money; or property at a vahiation, or any thing elfe but the full value of their'
deb[si according to the exchange with Great Britain. This
provifion is clehrly reflr7ed to Britijh debts, contraeled bcfore
the treaty, and cannot relate to- debtscontra6ted afterwardsi
* which vould be difehargeable according to contral, and the
laws'of the State.where eritered.into. .This provifion ha's ala,
fo a future-fped -inthis particular, hamely, that no lawful
impedim nt, no law of any of the States made after the treaty,
aIl oblige Britih creditors to receive their debts, ontraced
befoee the treatY, in paper money, or property at appraifement,
or in any thing but the value in fterling money. The obvious
intent of thefe words' was to prevent the operation of piast and
fitture tender laws ; or past and future laws, authorizing the
difcharge of executions for finch debts by property at a valuation.
6th. " Of all bona fide debts," that is, debts of eVerY fpe"
ci-s, kind, or nature, whether by ntortgage, if a coVenant-'
therein for payment; or by judgments, fpecialties, or fimple
contrats. But the debts. contemplated were to be bona' fide
dcts, that is,- bona fide contraOedbefore the peace, and con traaed with good faith, or hone{Hy, 'and without.covin, and
not kept on foot fraudulently. Bona fide is a legal technical
this countryI
expreflion ; and the law of Great Britain and
his annexed a certain idea to it. It is a term ufed in ifatutes
in England, and in ads of Affembly of all,the States, and fignifies a thing done realhy,. with a good faith, withoutfraud, oe
deceit, or collufign, or tru.st. The words bona fide are restric
tiv,, for a dzbt may be for a valuable confideration, and yet
not bonafide. A debt moufi be bonafide at the time of its commencement, or itnever can become fo afterwards. The words
bonafide, were not prefixed to defcribe the nature,of the debt
at the date of the treaty, but ihe nature of the debt at the time
it was contracted. Debts created before the war, were almot
the only debts in the contemplation of the treaty ; although
debts contraded during the war were covered by the general
provifion, taking in debts frorn the moft diftant period of time,
to
Ii
VoL. III.

CASEs ruled and adjudged in the-

1796.
.

to the date of the treat'. The recovery, where no laufi'd i'mpedinents were to be interpofed, was to have two qualifications: ift. The debts were to be bonafide contracted; and, 2d,
they were to be contra&ed before the peace.
. 7th. " Heretofore contradcted," that is, entered into at any-.
period'of time before the date of the treaty ; without regard to
the length or diftance of time. Thefe words are defcriptive
of the particular debts that might be recovered ; and relate
back to the time fueh debts were contracted. The time of the

contract was plainly to defignate the particular debts that
might be recovered. A debt entered - into during the war,
would not have been recoverable, unlefs under this defcription
of a debt contraaed at any time before the treaty.

If the words of the 4 th article taken feparately, truly bear.
the meaning I have given them, their fenfe collectively, cannot,,
be miftaken, and rruft be thefame.
The next enquiry is, whether the debt in quefltion,.is one of
thofe, defcribed in this article. It is very clear that the article
contemplated no debts but thofe contradel before the treaty ;
and no debts but only thofe to the recover), whereof. fome law.
nli
ipedi mnt might be interpofed. The prefent debt was
rontraded before the war, and to the recovery of it a lawful.
impediment, to wit, a law of FVirginia and payment under it,
is pleaded inbar. There.can be no doubt that the debt fued for,
is within the deftription, if I have given a proper interpretation of the words. If the treaty had been filent as to debts,
and the law of irginia had not been made, I have already
proved that debts would, on peace, have revived by the law of
nations. This alone fhews that the only impediment to the recovery of the debt in queftiorvis the law of Jirginia,and the
payment under it; and the treaty relates to every kind of legal
impediment.

But it is afked, did the 4th article intend to annul a law of.
the ftates ? and deftrqy rights acquired under it ?
1 anfwer, that the 4 th article did intend to deftroy all lawful
impediments, pal and future ; and that ihe law of Virginia,
and the payment under it, is a lawful impediment; and would
bar a recovery, if not deftroyed by this article of the treaty.
This flipblation could not intend only to repeal laws that created legal impediments, to the recovery of the debt (without
refped to the mode of payment) becaufe the mere repeal of a
law would not deftroy ails done, and rights acquired, under
the law, during its ex;Jence and before the repeal. This right
to repeal was only adm-tted by the councilfor the Defendants in

error, becaufe a repeal would not affet their caf ; but on the
Came ground that a treaty can repeal a law of the ftate, it can
nullify it. I hatve already proved, that a treaty can totally annihilate

S'UI'REME COURT of

the U(tited States.

nihilate any part of the Con itution of any of the individual.

1796.

fl.1tes, that is contrary to a treaty. It is admitted that the
treaty intended and did annul fome laws of the fiates, to wi,
any laws, paji or future, that authorifed a tender of japer rzoney to .extinguifh or:difcharge the debt, and any laws, pafl or
future, that authorifed the difiiharge, of executions by. paei,
motley, or delivery of property at appraifement ; becaufe if the
words sterling money have not this effeet, it cannot be fhewn
that they have any other. If the treaty could nullifyfome laws,
it will be difficult to maintain that it could not equally annul
others.
It was argued, that the 4 th article was neceffary to revive
debts which had not been paid, as it was doubtful, whether debts
not paid would revive on peace by the law of nations. I anfwcr, that the '4 th article was not neceffary on that account, bcaufe there was no doubt that debts not paid do revive by the
law of nations; as appears from By.nkerjhoek, Lee, and Sir
Thomas Parker. And if neceffary, this article would not
have this effe&, becaufe it revives no debts, but only thofe
to which fome legal impediment might be interpofed, and there
could be no legal imliediment, or bar, to the recovery, after
peace, of debts notpaid, during the war to the flate.
It was contended, that the provifion is, that CREDITORS
fhall recover, &c. and there was no creditor at the time of
the treaty, becaufe there was then no debtor, he having been
legally'difcharged. The creditors defcribed in the treaty, were
not creditors generally, but only thofe with whom debts had
beencontra&ed, at fome time before the treaty; and is a defcription of perfons, and not of their rights. This adhering
to the letter, is to defiroy the plain meaning of the provifion;
becaufe, if the treaty-does not extend to debts paid into the
flate treafuries, or-loan offices, it is very clear that nothing
was'done by the treaty as to thofe debts, not even fo much
as was ftipulatedfor Royalists, and Refugees, to wit, a rec*;mnendation of restitution. Further, by this conftruaion, nothing was done for Britih creditors, becaufe the law of nations
fecured a recovery of'their debts, which had not been confifcated and paid to the- flates; and if the debts paid in paper
money, of little value, into the ftate treafuries, q*r loan ofces,
were not to be paid to them, the article was of no kind of
value to them, and they were deceived. The article relates
either to debts not paid, or, to debts paid into the treafiries,
or loan ofifces. It has no relation to thefirst, for the reafons
above afigned ; and if it does not include the latter it relates to
nothing.
It was faid that the treaty fecured Britih crcdiitots from
,payment in paper money.. This is admitted, but it is by force
and

'

244
1796.
v

Csus ruled and adjudged, in the

and operation of the words, " in sterling moizey ;' but theh the
words, " heretofore contracted," are. to have no efect whatfoever; and it is~thofe very words, and thofe only, that fecure the
recovery of the debts, paid 'to the Rates ;'becaufe no lawful
impediment'is to be allowed to prevent the recovery of debts
contractedat any time before the trety..
But. it was alledged, that the 4 th article only flipulates, .that
there flhall be no lawful impediment, &c. but that a law of the
Rate was firft
neceflary to annul the law creating fuch impediment ; and that the flate isunder a moralobligation to pafs fuch
a law; 'but until it is done, the impediment remains.
I confider the 4 th article ini this light, that it is not a ftipulation that certain a&s fball he done, and that it was neceflary
for the legillatures of individual Rates, to do thofe a&s ; but
that it is an exprefs afrecment, that certain things fhall not
be permitted the _me'rican courts of juftice; and that it is a
contra&, on behalf of thofe courts, that they will not allow
fuch a6s to be pleaded in bar, to prevent a recovery of certain
BritifA debts. '"Creditors are to meet with no lawful impe-

ditnent, &c." As creditors can only fue for the recovery of
their debts, in courts of juflice ; and it is only in courts. of
jutiice that a legal impediment can be fet up by way of plea,
in bar of their a£iions; it appears to me, that the courts are
bound to overule everyjibch plea, if contrary to the treaty. A
recovery of a debt can only be prevented by a plea in bar to the
action. A recovery of a debt in iferling money, can only be
prevented by a like plea in bar to the affion, as tender and
rmfuftal, to operate as an extinguifhment. Xfter judgment,
payment thereof insterling money can only be prevented by
rome proceedings undr fome law, that authorifes the debtor
to difeharge an execution in paper money, or in property, at a
yaluation. In all thefe, and fimilar cafes, it appears to me,
that the courts of te United States are bound, by the treaty,
.to interfere. No one can doubt that a treaty may flipulate,
that certain'afs, flhall be done by the Legiflature ; that other
a~ts fhall he done by the Executive; and others by the Judiciary. In the 6th article it is provided, that nofuture. proficutatols ffiall be commenced againfl: any perfon, for or by reafon of the part he took in the war. Under this article the
American courts of jutice difcharged the profecutions, and the
perfons, on receipt of the treaty, and the proclamation of Congrefs. i Dail. lep. 233.
If a law of the Stat& to annul a former law.was fir? necefihry, it muf' be either qn tilc ground that .bh treaty could not
aznul any law of a State ; oi that the words ufed in''he treaty
were not explicit or effeafual for, that purpofe'. Our Federal
Confituution eftablif. s the power of a treaty over the conr
Aitutior.

SUPREMEr

COUR.t,of

the 'Uited States.

fitution and laws of any of the States; a'nd I have fhewn i796.
that the words of the 4th aiticle were iitended, and are fu'fficient to nullify the law of Virginia, and the payment under it.
It was contended that Virgnia is interefted in this queftion,
and ought to tornpenfate the. Defendants-in error, if obliged
to pay the Plaintiff under the treaty. ' If Virginia had a right
to receive the money,.which I hope I have clearly eftabliffied,
by what law is fhe obliged to return it? The treaty only
fpeaks of the originaldebtor, and fiys 'nothing about a recovery from any of the States.
It was faid that the defrndant ought to be.fully indemnified.,
if the treatj compels him to pay his debt over again; as his
rights have been facrificed for the benefit of the public.
That C'ongrefs had the power to facrifice the rights and interels of private citizen's to fecure the fafety or profperity of
the public, I have no.doubt ; but the immutable principles of
juftice; the public faith of the States, that -confifcated and
received Britifl debts, pledged to the debtors ; and the rights of
the debtors violated by the treaty; all combine to prove, that
ample compenfation ought tobe made to all the debtors who have
been injured by-the treaty for the benefit of thepublic. This
principle is recognized by the Conflitution, which declar'es ?
" that private property fhall not be taken for public ufe without juji compenfation". See Vattel lib. I. c. 2o.f 244.
'' .
Although Virginia is not bound to make compenfation to
the debtors, yet it evident'that they ought to be indemnified,
and it is not to be fuppofed, that thofe whofe duty it may be
to make the compenfation, will permit the rightsof our citizers
to be facrificed to a public objeo2, without the fulleft indemnity.
On the heft invefligation I have been able to give the 4 th
article of the treaty, I cannot conceive, that the wifdom of
men could exprefs their meaning in more accurate and intelligible words, 'or in words more proper.arid effe6tual to carry
their intent;on into execution. I am fatisfied, that the words,
in their natural import,. and common ufe, give a recovery to
the Britilh creditor from his original debtor of the debt contra&ed before the treaty, notwithftanding the tpayment thereof
into the public treafuries, or loan offices, under the authority
of any State law; and, thereforc, I am of opinion, that the
judgment of the Circuit Court ought to be reverfed, and that
judgment ought to be given, on the demurrer, -for the Plaintiff
in' error ; with tle c6ot, in the9Circuit Court, and the cofts-of
the appeal.
PATERSON. ytflice. The prefent fuit is inflituted on a
bond bearing date the 7 th of July 1774, and executed by Daniel
Lawrence Hylton & Co. and Francis Eppes, citizens of the
$tato of Virginia, to Yofeph Farreland WFilliam 7ones, fub-

jcOs

246

CASEs,ruled and adjudged in the

1796. jefts of the kingof Great Britiin, for the payment of, 42)9 7 6
i if.
6d. Britijk, or flerling, money.
The Defendants, among other pleas, pleaded,
It. Payment; op which iffue is joined.
2d. That 3111 1-9 dollars, equal to, C 933 i4af od. part of
on the 26th of
the debt mentioned in the declaration, were, -.
Ipril 178o, paid by them into the loan office of Virginia purfuant to an a6t of that State, paffed the 2oth of October 1777,
entitled, " An a& for, fequeftering BritfJb property, enabling
" thofe indebted to Britijh fubje6ts to pay off fuch debts, and
direffing the proceedings in fuit5 'where fuch fubje&s are
parties". The material fedion of. the ad is reci.ed in the
plea.
To this plea the Plaintiffs reply, and fet up the 4 th article of
the treaty, made the 3 d. of September'1783, between the United States and his Britannic Majefty, and the Conftitution of
the United States making treaties the fupreme law of the
land.
The rejoinder fets forth, that the debt in the declaration
mentioned, or fo much thereof as is equal to the fum of Lf 933
14f od. was not a bonafide debt due and owing to the Plaintiffs on: the 3 d of September 1783, becaufe the Defendants
had, on the 26th of pril 1780, paid, in part thereof, the
fum of 31I r 1-19 dollars into the loan office of Virginia, and
obtained a certificate and receipt therefor purfuant to the diredions of the faid ad; without that, that the faid treaty of
peace, and the Conifitution of the United States entitle the

k

Plaintiffs to maintain their adi6n againfi the Defendants for
fo much of the faid debt in the declaration mentioned as is.
equal to . 933 '4f
To this rejoinder the Plaintiffs demur.
The defendants join in demurrer.
On this iffue in law judgment was entered for the Defendants in the Circuit Court-for the Diftria of Virginia. AWrit of Error has been brought, and the general errors are
p6.Igned,
The queffiori is, whether the judgment rendered in the Circuit Court be erroneous? I fhall not purfue the range of
difcuffion, which was taken by the Counfel on the part of the
Plaintiffs in error, I do not deem it neceffary to enter on
the queftion, whether the Legiflature of 1irginiahad authority to make an a&,confifcating the debts due from its citizens
to the fubjeks of the king of Great Britain,' Or whether the
atthority in fuch cafe was exclufively in Congrefs. I fhall
read and make a few obfervations on the ad-, which has been
pleadud in bar and then pa's to the confideration of the 4 th

article

-

SUPREME COURT of the United States.

article of the treaty.

The firif and'third fedions are the. only 1796.

parts of the a6 nec effary to be confidered.
ift. I Vhereas divers perfons,'fubje&s of Great Britaini
" had, -during our coi'n xion with that'kingdom, acquired'ef" tates, real and perfonal, within this commonwealth, and had
"
lfo become eititled to debts to a confiderale amount, and
" ome of them had commenced fuits for therecovery lof fuch
" debts.before the prefent troubce had interrupted the admi-.
6'nift.ration ofjuftice,'which fuits were at that time depending
"and undctermined, 'and fijch effaies being acquired and debts
incurred, under the fandtion.of the laws and of the connexion
" then fubfifting, and it n'ot being known that their fov reign hath as yet ret the example of confifcating debts and
cftates under the like circumiftances, the public faith, and
c'
" the law and uf2ges of nations require, that they fhould not
" be confifcated on our part, but the fafety of the United
States demands, and the fame law and ufages of natidns will
" juflify, -that we fhould not flrengthen the hands of our enemies during the continuance of the prefent war, by remitting to them the profits or proceeds of fuch eftates,, or thd
.intereff or principal of fuch debts."
3d. " And be it further enaded, that it' fhail and may be
f" lawful for any citizen of this commonwealth, owing money
' to a fubject of Great Britain, to pay the fame, or any paft
" thereof, from time to time, as he fhail think fit, into the
faid loan office, taking thereout a certificate for the fame in,
" the name of the creditor, with an endorfement under the
" hand of the commifloner of the faid office expreffing the
name of the payer, and fhall deliver fuch certificate to the
" Governor and Council, whofe receipt fhall difcharge him
" from fo much of the debt.
And the Governor and Coun" cil fhall in like manner lay before the General Affembly,
" once in every year, an account of thefe certificates, fpeciffying the names of the perfons by and for whom they were
paid, and fhall fee to the fafe-keeping. of the fame, fubje&l"
to the future dire-ion of the Legiflature."
The ad does not confifcate debts due to Briti/h fubjeds.
The preamble reprobates the do6ine as. being inconfiffent
with public faith, and the law and ufages of nations. The
payments made into the loan office were voluntary and not
compulfive; for it was in the option of the debtor to pay or
not. 'The enading claufe will admit of a conifrudion in full
confiftency with the preamble ; for, although the certificates
-were to be fubjed to the future diredion of the Legiflature,
yet it was under the exprefs declaration, that there fhould be
no confifcation, unlefs the King of Great Britain fhould fet
the example ; if he fhould confifcate debts due to the citizens
of

24 8

CASES ruled'and. adjudged.-in the

1.796... of Virginia, then the Legiflature. of Virginia would confifeate
debts due to Briti/h fubjedIs. But the.King of Great Britain
did riot. confifcate debtr6n hir' part, and. the L.giflatue of
Virinia have not confifcated'debts on 'their par't. Itis, hoI weye.r, faid, .that the paynment -being nnide, uiidte the adt, the
of.Virginia is plighted. True-but to whom is it plighted
faitil
v-to the creditor or debtor-:-to.the alien enemy,,or to itsown
.citizen, who made the voluntary payment ? Or will it be lha-.
ped and varied actording to. the evcnt-if one way, then to
the creditor; if another, then to the debtbr. be thefe points
as they. may, the Legiflature thou'ght it.expedient to declare
to what amount /i;ginia fliould be bound. for payments fo
made. The af forthis'pui'pofe was paffed onthe 3 d of January,
' 78o ;. and is entitled ".An adt concerning monies paid into
" the public loan office, in payment of Britifldebts."
" Sedlien i. , W hereas by an ad of the General Affembly,
" entitled ' An ad for fequeftering Britifh property, enabling
" thofe. indebted to Briti/h fubjeds, to pay off fich debts, and
" direcinc the proceedings in fuits where fuch fubje&. are
'parties," it is among other things provided, that it fiall and
" may be lawful for any citizen of this commonwealth, owing
money to a fubje& of Great Britain, to pay the fame, or any

;Part thereof, from thrne to time, as he fhall think fit, into. the

ffaid loan office, taking thercout a certificate for the fame, in
'.' the name of the creditor ; with an indorfeme'nt under the hand
" of thee commitlioner of the faid office, expreffling the name of
" the payer; and (hall deliver fuch certificate to the governor
"and council, whofe receipt (hall ditharge him. from fo much
" of the debt; and the Governor and Council fhall, in'like man" ner, lay before the' General Aflfmbly, once in every year, an
account of thefe certificates, fpecifying the names of the per" fins, by and for vhbm they were paid, and fliall fee to the fafe
Skeeping of the fame, fubje& to the futurediretion of the LeLegiflature.
" Sec. 2. And 'whereas it belbngs not to the Legiflature to
" decide particular queftions, of which the judiciary have cognl.
zahne, ail it is therefore unfit for them todetermine, whether
"the paymentsfob made into the loan office, as aforefaid, be good
or v6id between the creditor and debtor. But it is expedient
" td declare to what amount this commonwealth may be bound
" for the payments aforefaid. Be it enaded and declared, That
" this commonwcalth fhall, at no time nor in ,any event or con" tingency, be liable to any perfon or perfons whatfoever, for
" any furn, on account of the payments aforef'id, other than the.
" value thereof when reduced by the fcale of depreciation, effa" blifhed by one other ad' of tihe General Affeinbly, entitled
" An ad diredting the fiod, of adjufing and fettling the pays
ment

SUPREME

CouRt of the United States.

merit of certain debts and contrads, and for other purpofes, i796with intereft thereon, at the rate of fix per centum per annum; any* Jaw, ufage, cuffon, or any adjudication or confirft recited ad already made, or hereaf" ftru&ion of the
t' to be made notwithfianding."
On the part of the Defendants, it has been alfo urged, that
it is immaterial whether the payment be voluntary or compul
five, becaufe the payer, on complying with the dire&ions of
the adft, fhall be difcharged from fo much of the debt. Be it
fo. If the Legiflature had authority to make the a&, the Congrefs could, by treaty, repeal the ad, and annul every thing
done under it, This leads us to confider the treaty and its
operation. Treaties mutt be conftrued in fuch manner, as to
effe&uate the intention of the parties. The intention is to be
colled'-ed from the letter and fpirit of the infirument, and may
be illullrated and enforced by confiderations deducible from the
fituation of the parties; and the reafonablenefs, juftice,.and
nature of the thing, for which provifion has been made. The
4th article of the treaty gives the text, and runs in the following words :
," It is agreed, that creditors on either ¢tde, {hall meet with no
legal impediment to the recovery of the full value in fterling
contraLed.?'
" money, of all bonafide debts heretofore
The phrafeology made ufe of, leaves in my mind no room to
hefitate as to the intention of the parties. The terms are unequivocal and univerfal in their fignification, and obvioufly
point to and comprehend all creditors, and all debtors, previoufly to tbe 3 d of September, 1783. In this article there appears to be a feledion of expreflions plain and ektenfive in
their import, and admirably calculated to obviate doubts, to
remove difficulties, to defignate the objets, and afcertain the
intention of the conteiding powers, and, in fhort, to meet and
provide for all poflible cales that could arife under the had ot
debts. The words "creditors on either fide," embrace every
dcfcription of creditors, and cannot be limited or narrowed
down to fuch only, whofe debtors had not paid into the loan
office of T/irgnia . Creditors muff have debtors; debtors
is the correlative term. Who are thefe debtors? On the
part of the Defendants in error, it has been contended, that
Virginia is the fuiftituted debtor, fo far as repeds debtors,
who may have paid' money into the loan office under its
laws. But the idea, that the treaty may be fatisfied by fubftituting the ftate of /irginia in the ifead of the original debtor,
is far fetched, and altogether inadmiffible. The terms in
which the article is expreffed, clearly evince a contrary intention, and naturally and irrefiftably carry the mind back to the
original debtor; for, as between the JPriti/h. creditor and the
flate
K k
VOL. III.
"

250

1796

CASEs

ruled and adjudged in the.

ffate of Virginia, there was no exprefs and pre-exifting flipui
lation or debt. Befides, what lawful impediment was to be
removed out of the way of the creditor, if Firgflnia was the
fubftituted or felf-created debtor? Did this claufe make Virginia liable to a profecution for the debt ? Is Virginia now
fuable by fuch Britifh creditor ? No; he would in fuch cafe
be totally remedilefs, unlefs the nation of which he is a fubjecl-,
would interpofe in his behalf. The words " fhall meet with
no lawful impediment," refer to legiflative a&s, and every
thing done under them, fo far as the creditor might be affeded
or obftruced in regard either to his remedy or right. All
lawful impediments of whatever kind they migbt be, whether
they related to perfonal difabilities, or confifcations, fequef.
trations, or payments into loan offices or treafuries, are removed. No a& of any tfate legiflature, and no payment made
under fuch ad into the public coffers, fhall obftrud the creditor in his courfe of recovery againaf his debtor. The ad itfelf is
a lawful impediment, and therefore is repealed ; the payment
under the ad is alfo a lawful impediment, and therefore is
made void. The article is to be confirued according to the
fubjea matter or nature of the impediment ; it repeals in the
firft inftance, and nullifies in the fecond. Unlefs this be the
conftrucdion, it is not true, that the creditor fhall meet with no
legal impediment to the recovery of his debt. Does -not the
plea in the prefent cafe contradi& the treaty, and raife an impediment in the way of recovery, when the treaty declares
there fhall be none ? Payments made in paper money into
loan offices, and treafuries, were the principal impediments
to be removed, and mifchiefs to he redreffed. The article
makes provifion accordingly. It fiipulates, that the creditor
fhall recover the full value of his debt in fterling money; hereby fecuring and guarding him againft all payments in paper
money. Suppofe the creditor fhould call on Virginia for payment-what would it be-the paper money paid into the loan
office, or its value. Would this be a compliance with the article ? In the one cafe, the money being cried down and dead,
is no better than wafte paper; and in the other, the payment.
when reduced by the table of depreciation, would be inconfiderable, and in many cafes not more than fix-pence
in the pound.

Can this be called payment to the full va-

lue of the debt in f{erling money ? The fubfequent expreffions in the article, enforce the preceding obfervations, and
mark the will and intention of the contra&ing parties, in
the rriPr ciear and precife terms. The concluding words are,
" all bo afide debts heretofore contraded."
In the conftruction of contraeffs, words are to be taken in their natural and
obvious meaning, unlefs fome good reafon be affigned, to lhew,
that

SUPREME COURT

of the United States

that they fhouldbe underfood in a different fenfe.

Now, if a

perfon, in reading this article, flhould take the words in their
common meaning, and as generally underfood, could he miftake
the intention of the parties ? Their defign unqueftionably
was, to reftore the creditor and debtor to their original flate,
and place them precifely in the fituation they would have flood,
if no war had intervened, or aat of the Legiflature of Jirginia
had been paffed,. The impediments created by Legiflative aas,
and the payments made in purfuance of them, and all the evils
grqwing out of them, were, fo far as refpeled creditors, done
away and cured. This is the only way in which all lawful impediments can be removed, and all debts, contrafted before the
date of the treaty, can be recovered to their full value, by the
creditors againif their debtors. It has, however, been urged,
that this article muft be refirided to debts exifiing and due at
the time of making the treaty ; that the debt in queftion was
difcharged, becaufe it has been paid into the Loan Office, agreeably to law ; and that the treaty ought not to be conifrued fo as
to renovate or revive it. To enforce this objeclion,, the rule
laid down by Fattel was relied on, "1that the ifate of things at
" the inflant of the treaty, is to be held legitimate, and any
change to be made in it requires an exprefs fpecification in
" the treaty; confequently all things not mentioned in the
" treaty, are to remain as they were at the conclufion of it."
Fatr. B. 4- C. 2.f 21. The rtpart of the objetion has been
already anfwered ; for it is within both the letter and fpirit of
the inflrument, that the creditors fhould be reinifated, and, of
courfe, that the debtors fhould be liable to pay. The aa of
Yirginia, and the payment under it have, fo far as the creditor
is concerned, no operation, and are void. There is ho difficulty in anfwering the obje6tion arifing from the paffage in
JVattel. The univerfality of the terms is 6qual to an exprefs
fpecification in the treaty, and indeed includes it. For it is
fair and conclufive reafoning, that if any defcription of debtors
or clafs of cafes was intended to be excepted, it would have
been fpecified in the infrument, and the words, "that creditors on either fide, fhall meet with no lawvful impediment to
" the recovery of the full value in fterling money of all debts
" heretofore contra&ed," would not have been made ufe of in
the unqualified manner, in which they fland in the treaty.
Another article in the treaty now under review, will ferve by
way of illuftration.
"ARTICLE VII. There fliallbe a firm and perpetual peace
"between his BritannicMajefty and the aid States, and between
"the fubjecs of the one and the citizens of the other, wherefore
"all hoftilities both by fea and land (hall then immediatcly ceafe:
";all prifoners on both-fides fliall
be ret at liberty, and his Britannic
Majefy

1796.

252
i796,

CA§Es ruled -and adjudied in the

Majefly fhall, With all convenient fpeedi and without caufany deftru6tion, or carrying away any negroes or other
"property of the American inhabitants, withdraw all his armies,
"garrifons and fleets from the faid United States, and from every
"port, place and harbour within the fame; leaving in all fortifi" cations the American aitillery that may be therein.. And fhall
alfo order and caufe all archives, rebords, deeds, and-papers,
"belonging to any of the faid States, or their citizens, whilch in
"the courfe of the war may have fallen into the hands ofhis offi"1cers, to be forthwith reflored and delivered tothe proper States
Would it be anobje~tion
"and perfons to whomtheybelong."
on the part of his Britannic Majefty, that the Pate of things at
the infiant of the treaty is to be held legitimate, and anychange
to be made in it, requires an exprefs fpecification ? That the
forts are not fpecified, and therefore not to'be, givien up ? Tie
objection would be confidered as futile and evafive: The anfwer would be, that there is no doubt, becaufe thb,bxpreffions
are general, comprehend the forts, and are equal to an exptefs
fpecification. So in the prefent cafe, the univerfality of. the
terms are equal to a fpecification of every partiiular debt,' drah
enumeration of every creditor and debtor. It is the fame think
as though they had been individually named. Allthe creditois
on either fide, without diftin6tion, muft have beencontemplatei by the parties in the fourth article. Almoft every word, f&parately taken, is exprellive of this idea, and when all the words
are combined and taken together, they remove every particle
of doubt. But if the clafs of Britijh creditors,. whofe debtors
have paid into the Loan Office of 'Firgifiii,are not comprehended in the fourth article, then they pars without redrefs,
Vvithout notice, without lb much as a recommendation in their
favour, The thing is incredible. . Why a difinaion-why
fhould the creditors, whofe debtors paid into the Loan 'Office,
be in a worfe fituation tha'n the creditors, whofe debtors did
not thus pay ? The traders, and others of this country, were
largely indebted to the merchants of Great Britain. To provide for the payment of thefe debts, and give fatisfa6ion to this
clafs of fubjts, mufi have been a matter of primary importance 'to the Britif rniniftry. This, doubtlefs is at all times,
and in all fituations, an objct of moment to a commercial
country, The opulence, refources, and power of the Britib
nation, may, in no finall degree, be afcribed to its commerce
"

S"ing

it is a nation of manufa$turers and merchants.

To protea

their interefts and provide 'for the payment of debts due to
them, efpecially when thofe debts amounted to an iminenfe fum,
could not fi-il of arrefling the attention, and calling forth the
utmoft exa'tions of the Britijb cabinet. A meafure of' this
41nd, it is eafy to pcrccivc would be purfued with unremitting

iligence

SUPREME

COUtRT

of the United S'tates

diligence and ardour; facrifices would be made to ntute its 1796.
fuccefs ; anid, perhaps, nothing fh'brt of ektreme rieteffity
would induce them to give it up. But, if the db'tsj vhich
have been confifcated, or paid into loan offices, or treafuries, be
'not within the provifioh of the.f~rtt article, then a numerous
clafs of Britijh merchants tre paffhd over, in filence, aud not 6fo
much attended to as the loy4lift§, or Athericany, who attached
themfelves to the caufe of Britain during the war. 11; it a fuppofable cafe, that 'the Britijh negociators would -have been
more regardful of the interefts,of the loyaliffs than of their owh
merchants ? That they would mike a difcrimiriatioii betweeh
merchants, when in a national and political view, and in the
eye of juffice, they were equally merritorious, and entitled to
receive complete fati'sfa&i6n for their debts ? No linehould
be drawn between creditors unl;efs it be found in the treaty,.
'The treaty does not make it : thetruth is, that riohe was i6tended ; for,'if intended it would have been e'xpreffed. The
indefinite and fweepirng ternls enade ufe of by the 'parties, fuch
as "creditors on'either fide, no law~ul impedirheit to the recovery of 'the full VAlkie in fterli ng. money, of ill' debts heretofore
contraHed," exclude the 'idea 'ofany clafs 'of'cafes havihg been
intended to be excepted, and explode th1 do&rine of eonftructive difcimination. The fourth article appears to :me to c rie
within 'the firft general maxim '6f interpret'ion laid down bY
J/attel. " It is not permitted to 'interpret what has no need 6f
When an a& 'is conceived in clear and pre"interpretation,
" cife terms, when the fenfe ismanife , and leads 'to onthing
" abfurd, there can be no reafoft to refufe the fenfe which this
" treaty naturally prefents, To go elfewh'ere in fearch of'con'"jeatires, in order to ref rain or extinguih it, is to endeavour
" to elude it. If this dangerous method be once dmitted,
Let
" there will be no aft which it will not render ufelefs.
the brighteff light fhine on all the pa-rts of the piece, let it
" be exprefld in terms the moft clear and determinate; all this
"fhall be of no ufe, if it be allowed to fearch :for :foreign rea" fors, in order to maintain what cannot be found in the fenfeit
"naturallyprefents." Fatt"B. 2. ch. 17. f 263.
To proceed, the conftrution on the part of the defendants
excludes mutuality. The debts due from Britilh fubje&s
to Imerican 'citizens were not confifcated,, or fequeftered, or
drawn into the public coffers. They were left untouched.
Now, if all the Briti debtors be compelled to pay their Arnerican creditors, and -a part only of the Anerican debtors be
compelled to pay their Briti/b creditors, there will not be
that mutuality in the thing, which its nature and juftice require. The rule in fuch cafe fhould work both ways: Whereas
the other conftrazeion creates mutuality, ahd proceeds upon
indifcriminating
'

254.
1796.
o-Y-

CASEs ruled and adjudged in the

indifcriminating principles. The former confcru&ion does
violence to the letter and fpirit of the initrument; the latter
flows eafily and naturally out of it.
It has been made a queftion, whether the confifcation of
debts, which were contraded by individuals of different nations
in time of peace, and remain due to individuals of the enemy
in time of war, is authorifed by the law of nations among civilized ftates ? I fhall not, however, controvert the pofition,
that, by the rigour of the law of nations, debts of the defcriptionjuft mentioned, may be confifcated. This rule has by
fome been confidered as a relia of barbarifm; it is certainly a
hard one, arid cannot continue long among commercial nations ; indeed, it ought not to have exifled among any nations,
and, perhaps, is generally exploded at the prefent day in Europe. Hear the language of Vattell on this fubje&, B. 3.
"C. 5f 77. " But at prefent, in regard to the advantage
and fafety of commerce, all the fovereigns of Europe have
"dqeparted from this rigor. And as this cuftor has been generally received, he who fhould at contrary to it, would in"jure the public faith ; for firangers trufted his fubje6ts only
" from a firm perfuafion, that the general cufltom would be
"obferved.
The fQate does not fo much as touch the fums
"which it owes to the enemy. Every where, in cafe of war,
" funds credited to the public are exempt fibn confifcation,
cc and feizure." The Legiflators of Virginia, who made the
at, which has been pleaded in bar, lay down .the do6trine relative to this point, in fcrong and unequivocal terms. For,
they ,exprefsly declare, that the law and ufages of nations require, that debts fhould not be confifcated, if the enemy
fhould, in the firift iniftance, dired a confifcation of debts, retaliation might in fuch cafe be a proper and juftifiable menafure. [he truth is, that the confifcation of debts is at once
unjuft and impolitic; tit deftroys confidence, violates good
faith, and injures the interefts of commerce; it is alfo unproducqive, and in mofi cafes impracticable. Ingenious writers
have endeavbured to defend the do6lrine on the ground, that
the confifeation of debts weakens the enemy and enriches our,
felveF. The firfi is not true, becaufe remittances are feidom,
if ever, made during a war, and the fecond geherally proves
unprofitable, when attempted to be carried into pra6tice.
The gain is, at mofi-, temporary, and inconfiderable ; whereas the injury is certain and incalculable, and the ignominy
great and lafting. Iliflory furnifhes a remarkable inilance in
tupport and illultration of the foregoing remarks. For, in the
war that broke out between Franceand Spain in the year 1684,
his Catholic Majefty endeavoured to feize the effects of the
fubjects of Fra;:;. in his kingdom; but the attempt proved
abortive

SUPREME COURT of the United States.

abortive, for not one Spanijb agent or factor violated his truff, 1796.
or betrayed his French principal or correfpondent. If the pay- t
ments, which have been made into the loan office, purfuant to the,
a& of Jirginia,fhould be fcaled according to a fubfequent act
of that ftate, they would not, it is probable, amount to a very
large fum. Other reafons in fupport of the doctrine have
been affigned, namely, that the confifcation of debts operates
as an indemnity for paft loffes, and a fecurity aginft future injuries ; but they do not appear to me to be more folid than,
thofe already mentioned. Confifcation of debts is confidered
a difreputable thing among civilized nations of the prefent day;
and indeed nothing is more firongly evincive of this truth,
than that it has gQne into general deffuetude, and whenever
put into practice, provifion' is made by the treaty, which
terminates the war, for the mutual and complete reftoration
of contracts and payment of debts. I feel no hefitation in
declaring, that it has always appeared to me to be incompatible with the principles of juftice and policy, that
contrads entered into by individuals of different nations,
fhould be violated by their, refpe&ive governments in confequence of national quarrels and hoftilities.
National differences fhould not affedt private bargains. The confidence,
both of an individual and national nature, on which the contrads were founded, ought to be preferved inviolate. Is not
this the language of honeffy and honor ? Does not the fentiment correfpond with the principles of juftice, and the dictates of the moral fenfe ? In fhort, is it not the refult of right
reafon and natural equity ? The relation, which the parties
flood in to each other at the time of contrading thefe debts,
ought not to pafs without notice. The debts were contraded
while the creditors and debtors were fubje6ts of the fame
king, and children of the fame family. They were made under the fandion of laws common to, and binding on, both. A
revolution-war could not, like other wars, be forefeen or calculated upon. The thing was improbable. No one, at the
time that the debts were contra6ted, had any idea of a feverance or difmemberment of the empire, by which perfons,
who had been united under one fyftem of civil polity, fhould
be torn afunder, and become enemies for a time, and, 'perhaps,
aliens forever. Contra&s entered into in fuch a fltate of things
ought to be facredly regarded. Inviolability feems to be attached to them. Confidering then the ufages of civilized nations, and the opinion of modern writers, relative to confifcation, and alfo the circuiflances under which thefe debts were
contraded, we ought to take the expreffions in this fourth article in their moft extenfive fenfe. We ought to admit of no
eomment, that will narrow and reftrid their operation and
import.

356
1796.
#

CAsEs ruled andadjudged inthe

impo.rt. The conffrufion of a treaty made in favor of fich.
creditors, and for the reftoration and enforcement of pre-exiftiipg co.ntrqds, ought to be liberal and benign. For thefe reafqins this clapufe in the treaty deferves the utmof latitude of
e.xpofition. The fourth article embraces all creditors, extends
to all pre-exifting debts, removes all lawful impediments, repeals the legiflative a&t of Virginia, which has been pleaded
in bar, and with regard to the creditor annuls every thing done
qnder it. This article reinflates the parties ; the creditor and
debtor before the war, are creditor and debtor fince ; s they
ftood then, they frand now. To prevent miftakes, it is to be
upderffood, that my argu1ment embraces none but lawful-impediments within.the meaning of the treaty, fuch as legiflative
Ats, and payments under them into loan offices and tre4furies.
.An impediment created by law ftands on different groutnd from
an impediment created by the creditor. To conclude: I am
of opinion, that the demurrer ought to have been fuaftincd;
andO, of courfe, that thejudgment rendered in the cotrt below,
is erroneovs ; and muft be rvverfed.
IREDELL, Jztyice. In delivering my opinion on this important c4fe, I feel myfelf' deeply affec&ed by the awful fituation
in which I ftand. The uncommon magnitude of the fubjeO,
its .novelty, the high expelation it has excited, and the confequ.nces with which a decifion maybe attended, have all imp.reffed me with their fulleft force. I have trembled left by an
ill informed or precipitate opinion of mine, either the honour,
the interet, or the fafety of the United States flhould fuffer or
be
Judgc IREDE L,, (one of the Judges who decided the original caufe) in conformity to. a praaice which the Judges of this court
have generally purfued, forbore taking any part in this decifion, as a
Judge, upon the prefent writ of error, having declared from the firt he
meant q y to do fq, in cafe of an equal divifion of opinion among.the
other judges. But he ob.fervecl, that he thought there would be no unpropriety in hi; reading in his place the reafons he had given in fupport
of the judgment in the Circuit Court, a praetice expreffly authorized
it, tile cafe of the Diftri& Judge, tipon at appeal to the Circuit Court
ft'om.n his own decilion ; tho' he is at the fame time excluded from votlog. And Judge Kede/ added, that upon confulting his brethren on the
berich, they had acq~uiefcbd it the propriety of this proceeding.
He
therefore read thrfe reafons in his place, fo far as they refpeaed the
fame fubje& of difcuniton im both courts, which was only as to the effca of'paymencs into tite treafury, every otherpoint in conteft in the
Circuit Cojirt having been relinquifhed.
. It is , however, thought proper on this occalion, to puihliflh the whole
of the :rgutncnt as eliv.ered iti the Ch cuit C(,urt there being fume obfervationsoni that part of the ftrbjec that was relinquiflied which, it
is coneived, ferve to illufhiate ihe great topic of controverly that
oceafioned the prefent wt it of error.
Te Judge, sfter reading his opi.nion, asdelivered ins the coart below,
a.!Wedj that it had not been changed by sany thing "Yhich h, d occurrct, in
aruing the cafeon the prcfent W/rit of error.
. I9

8UPREME COURT

of the UnitedStates.

be endangered on the one band, or the jufi rights and proper 1796.
fecurity of any individual on the other. In endeavouring to
form the opinion I fhall now delivcr, I am ure the great objcq
of my heart has been to difcover the true principles upon
which a decifion ought to be given, unbiafied by any other conHappy
fideration than the moft facred regard to juftice.
fhould I have thought myfelf, if I could as confidently have
relied on a ftrength of abilities equal to the greatnefs of the
occafion.
The caufe has been fpoken to, at the bar, with a degree of
ability equal to any occafion. However painfully I may at
any time refled on the inadequacy of my own talents, I fhall
as long as I live remember with pleafure and refpedft the arguments which I have heard on this cafe they have difcovered
an ingenuity, a depth of invefligation, and a power of reafonitneffed, and ome of
ing fully equal to any thing I have ever vA'
them have been adorned with a fplendor of eloquence furpaffing what I have ever felt before. Fatigue has given way
under its' influence, and the heart has been warmed, while the
underfianding has been inftruded,
The a6lion now before the court is an affion of debt,
brought by a Britif creditor againft an American debtor,.to
recover upon a bond executed before the late war,
To this a&ion there are five pleas, fubftantially as follow.
The ift, a plea of payment, on which iffue is joined, but
not now before the court, and which is to be tried by a jury, in
cafe judgment be given for the Plaintiff upon the legal queftions arifing on the other pleas, fo as to entitle him to try the
the iffue.
The 2d is a plea of a payment into the treafury of the State,
of part of the debt, under an adt of affembly of the 2oth of
Odober, 1777.
The 3 d. plea is grounded on two ads of affembly: One of
May 1779, under which it is alledged that the debt in queftion
became forfeited to the State ; the other of llay 1782, which
is relied on as a bar to the recovery. The 'former part of the
plea I underfiand to be given up by the defendant's counfsIl,
and certainly with great propriety, becaufe debtsare expref~ly
excepted in the ad it refers to.
The 4 th plea alledges a non-compliance with the treaty ?,
the part of Great Britain, and, therefore, that the Britifb cre
ditor cannot now recover a benefit under the fame treaty. I t
alfo alledges ads of hoftility by Great Britain fince the peace,
as likewife forming a bar to the recovery of the Plaintiff; who
is a Britih creditor.
t.he 5 th plea is, that this debt was abfolutcly annulled by,
the change of government. This alfo I underftand to have
VOL, III.
L I
been

CASES ruled and adjudged in the

1796, been given up in the courfe of the argument, and undoubtedly
~it is not tenable.
The only pleas, therefore, for u§ to confider, are the fecond,
part of the third, and the fourth. Every thing I have to fay on
admitting the fullef opethat part of the 3 d, not relinquifhcdf,
rationof the ad of 1782, as intending to affedtBritih creditors
theinfelves, as well as affignees, which does not appear to me to
have formed any part of its objed, will appear from my obfervations on the fecond plea; and, therefore, to prevent unneceffary repetition, I fhall not confider it feparately by itfelf.
It feems proper to fpeak of the fourth plea rft, becaufe, if
that can be maintained, it is altogether immaterial to confider
either of the others.
I am clearly of opinion, that the fourth plea is not maintainable.
It is grounded on two allegations.
ift.
The breach of the treaty by Great Britain, as alledged
in the plea.
2d. New a&s of hoffility on the part of that kingdom.
i. In regard to the firft, I confider the law of nations to be
decided as to the following pofition, viz:
( That if a treaty be broken by one of the contrading par.
ties it becomes (in the expreffive language of the law) not
" akfolutely void, but voidable; and voidable, not at the option
" of any individual ofthecontradfing country injured, however
" muci he may be affeded by it, but at the option of the/fo
" vereign power of that country, of which fuch individual is a
,member". The authorities, I think, are-full and decifive to
that effef-.
Grotius, b. 2. c. 15. f 15. ib. b. 3. c. 2o.
f 35, 36, 37, 3. 2. Burl. p. 355. part 4. c. 14. inf 8.
"-Pattel,b. 4. c.4"f 54"
-The gentlemen for the defendant, taking hold of fome particular expreflions, without regarding the whole of thefe authorities, and confidering the reafon of them, have argued, that
true, in the prefent inalance (for example) Congrefs might
have remitted the infradion, but not having done fo, the Plaintiff is barred for the prefent, however he might be refcored to
the right, in cafe the infradion fhould hereafter be adually
remitted.
But to me it is very evident, that fuch a pofition is riot
maintainable, either by the authorities I have recited, or the
reafon of the thing.
The words of Grotius are pointed and exprefs to flhew, not
that the treaty flall be reputed broken until a remifion is aauahy pronounced by the injured party, but that it flhall not be reputed as broken, until the injured party (hall *think proper actually to pronounce it broken; and it is remarkable that his
wordt

SUPREME COURT of the United States.

words to this effe, are calculated for the very purpofe of re- 1796.
moving any doubts which other more genera! expreflioas might
occafion. His words are:
" When there is treachery on one fide, it is certainly at the
" choice of the innocent party to let the peace fubfift; as Scipio
did formerly after many perfidious adions of the CarthageC nians.
Becaufe no man, by doing contrary to his obliga" tion, can thereby difcharge himfelf from ic.

For though
" it is expreffed, that by fitch a fa& the peace (hall be reputed
" as broken, yet this claufe is to be underfood only in favour of
the innocent, if he thinks fit to make ufe of it." Grotius.

1. 3.. 20. f 38.
The whal claufe of Jattel is fubftantially to the fame purpofe ;, and, therefore, where in one part of he claufe he f'ys,
",

the ofended party may remit the infraflion committed," this

muft be underifood, to make the whole confiftent, a remiflion
not arifing from an exprefs declaration, but from a tacit acquiefcence in the breach. Otherwife, what becomes of the
words ?-"l but if he chufes not to cone to a rupture, ,the

1 treaty remains valid and obligatory." %The treaty, therefore, muff remain valid and obligatory, until the power, authorifed to come to a rupture, does come to it.
The fame obfervations apply to Burlnmaqui, who expreffes
himfelf more genlerally, but ftates fublIantially the fame doctrine. His expreflion is, " it is at the choice of the innocent

party to let the peace fubfift," which certainly does not require a pofitive declaration that it fhall fubfift.
This dotrine appears to me to be grounded on the higheft

"

reafon. It is undoubtedly true, that e2ch nation is confidered
is a moral perfon, and the welfare and interef' of all the in-

dividuals of that nation, fo far as they may be affected by its
concerns with foreign nations, are in each country entrufted
to fome particular power authorifed to negociate with them,
or to fpeak the fenfe of the nation on any emergency.
When any indi,-idu al, therefore, of any nation, has caufe of
complaint againa another nation, or any individual of it, not
immediately amenable to the authority of his own, he may complain to that power in his own nation, which is entrufted' with
the. fovereignty -of it as to foreign negociations, and he will be
enitled to all the.redrefs -which the nature of his cafe requires,
and the fiutation of his own country will enable him to obtain.
The people of the United States, in their prefent Conftitution, have devolved on the Prefident and Senate, the power of
makinog treaties; and upon Congrefs, the power of declaring
war,
To one or other of thefe powers, .in cafe of an infra(ion of
a treaty that has beeii entered -into with the United States, I
Upaul
#pprehend application is to be made,

26o

CASES

ruled and adjudged in the

Upon fuch an application various important confiderations
7796.
t-e-would neceffarily occur.
i.Whether the treaty was firft violated on the part of the
United States, or on that of the other contraaing power ?
2. 'Whether, if firft violated by the latter, it was a violation
in an important or an inconfiderable article; whether the vio•ation was by defign or accident, or owing to unforefeen obftacles ; whether, in fhort, it was wholly or partially without excufe ?
3. Whether, admitting it was either, it was a matter for
which compenfation could be made, or otherwife ?
- 4. Whether the inj!ry was of fuch a nature as to admit of
negociation, or to require immediate fatisfaaion, peremptorily
and without delay?
5. Whether, if the circumfances in all other cafes julflified
it, it was advifeable, upon an extenfive view and wife effimation of all the relative circumfiances of the United States, to
declare the treaty broken, and of courfe void: for though the party
firfflabreaking the treaty cannot make it abfolutely void, but it is
only voidable at the elefion of the injured party, yet when that
eleaion is made, by declaring the treaty void, I conceive it is
totally fo as to both parties, and that allrights enjoyed under
the treaty are abfolutely annulled, as if no flipulation had been
niade for them?
Thefe are confiderations of policy, confiderations of extreme
magnitude, and certainly entirely incompetent to the examination and decifion of a Court of Juftice..
Miferable and difgraceful indeed, would be the fituation of
the citizens of the United States, if they were obliged to comply with a treaty on their part, and had no means of redrefs for
a non-compliance by the other contraCing power.
But they have, and the law of nations points out the remedyt
The remedy depends on the difcretion and fcnrfe of duty of their
own government,
This plea is therefore defeflive, fo far as concerns the breach
of the treaty, not becaufe this court hath no cognizance of a
breach of treaty, but becaufe by the law of nations, we have
no authority upon any information or conceffions of any individuals, to confider or declare it broken; but our judgment muft
be grounded on the folemn declaration of Congrefs alone, (to
whom, I conceive, the authority is entrufled) given for the
very purpofe of vacating the treaty on the principles I -have
flnted. The paper trarfinitted by order of Congrefs, to the
Executive of Virginia, on the fubje& of a violation complain-

ed of on the part of the Britilh, certainly cannot amount-to fo
much, efpeciallv as there is another paper of theirs in the year
Z787, tranifMitted to the different States, complaining of violatjonS,

SUPREME COURT of the United States.
tions on our part. They have pronounced no folemn decifion,
which committed the fi'ft infrafion; much lefs have they de-

clared that in confequence of the infraaion on the part of the
Britijh, they chofe that the treaty fhould be annulled
But it is faid that a declaration by Congrefs, that the treaty
was broken by Great Britain, would be exercifing a judicial
power, which by the Conflitution in all cafes of treaties is devolved on the Judges.
Surely fuch a thing was never in the contemplation 6f the
Conflitution. If it was, a method is frill wanting by which
it could be executed ; for, if we are to declare, whether Great

.Britainor the United States, have violated a treaty, we ought
to have fome way of bringing both the parties before us.

The method contended for by the defendant's counfel is very
ill fuited to another part of their doc rine, which is certainly
right, that a nation is a moral perfon, and that the aft of a fovereign power to whom its foreign concerns are entrufted, is the
a& of every individual of that nation, becaufe he reprefents the

whole.
But in this cafe, the King'of Great Britain does not adt on
behalf of the plaintiff, his fubjedff, and the United States on behalfof the defendants, their citizens; but the plaintiff is alledged
to reprefent the fovereignty of the United States, a dignity for
aught I know, of which they may be refpedqively worthy, but
which certainly does not either'politically or judicially belong
to them.
The Judiciary is undoubtedly to determine in'all cafes in
iaw and equity, coming before them concerning treaties.
The fubje& of treaties, Gentlemen truly fay, is to be determined by the law of nations.
It is a part of the law of nations, that if a treaty be violated
by one party, it is at the option of the other party, if innocent,'
to declare, in confequence of the breach, that the treaty is void.
If Congrefs, therefore, (who, I conceive, alone have fuch
authority under our Government) (hall make fuch a declaration, in any cafe like the prefent, I fhall deer it my duty t6
regard the treaty as void, and then to forbear any fhare in executing it as a Judge,
But the fame law of nations tells me, that until that declaration be made, I muff regard it (in the language of the law)
valid and obligatory.
The admiffion of the fad, flated in the plea, cannot be. taken
as an admiffion that thefaf isjlridly true, becaufe the plaintiff had no way of avoiding the plea but by a demurrer, whether it was true or not. If it was well pleaded, it is an admiffion
of the entire truth, but not otherwife. For the reafons I have
given, it is clear to me that it is not well pleaded.
• Inl'

1796.

263

CASES ruled and adjudged in the

In regard to the fecond branch of this plea, new ads of'
1796. -.
hoffility, if meant as conhtituting a breach, (which I don't underfland it to be) the obfervations I have already made will,
equally apply to this part of the plea. If meant as a proof, that
a war in fat, tho' not in name fubfifts, and therefore that the
plaintiff is an alien enemy, the fame obfervations will apply Pill
more forcibly- We mut receive a declaration, that we are in
a ftate of war, from that part of the fovereignty of the union to
which that important fubjed is entrufted. We certainly want
fome better information of the faf than we have at prefent.I-lowever, this point feems fo clear, that the defendant's counfel
very faintly attempted to moaintain this ideaof the cafe.
rconclude, therefore, for~thefe reafons, that there is nothing
in the 4 th plea which is a bar to the plaintiff's a'ion.
The great difficulty of the cafe arifes from the fecond plea.This is the only part of the cafe, about which I have, from the
beginning, entertained any doubt. And I muf confefs, I have
had very great doubts, indeed, on this fubje&. My opinion
has varied more than once in regard to it. I have endeavoured
to come to a conclufion by analyfing it in all its parts; and the
jefult of my inveffigation has been, according to the beff judgment I am capable of forming, upon the moff deliberate examination, that the plea is fupportable. My reafons for this opinion, I mufl give at cohfiderable length, in order to flhew it is
not a rafh one, and that Gentlemen may be enabled in the future progrefs of this cafe, more eafily to deted my errors, if I
Ihould have committed any.
I will divide the confideration of the plea into two points:
i. Whether the plea would have-been a bar, if this cafe had
flood independently of the treaty ?
2. Whether the treaty deftroys the operation of the plea?
In confidering the firft point, I fhall, for the greater perfpicuity, confider it under the following heads:
i. Whether the Legiflarure of this State had a right, agrea.
ble to the law of nations, to confifcate the debt in queftion
2. Whether, admitting that the Legiflature had not a right,
agreably to the law of nations, to confifcate the debt, yet if
they in fat did fo, it would not, while it remained unrepealed
by any fubfequent, fufficient authority, have been valid and
obligatory within the limits of the State, fo as to bar any fuit
for the recovery of the debt ?
3. Whether, if it fhall be confidered that the Legiflature did
pot wholly confifcate the debt, fo as totally to extinguifh all right
in the creditor, (as I apprehend they clearly did not) but only
fequefer it under the peculiar circumflances hated in the aft
he payment in queftion, under the authority of the a&, did not,
4 that tim.e t leaft, wholly eX:onerate the debtor ?

' -. ,.-'

SUPREME COURT of the United

8tates.

x* It being clear that there was no abfolute confifcation in 17,96.
this cafe) I fhall not give a conclufive opinion upon the right; %eY-%J
but as I think it highly probable fuch a right did exift, fome
obfervations on that fubje& will naturally and properly lead to
thofe upon which my opinion, as to the validity of the payments, is ultimately founded. For this reafon, and this reafon
only, I difcufs the prefent queftion.
Whatever doctbt might have been entertained, by reafoning
on the particular examples of Grotius and Puffendorf,Bynkerboek, (who, I believe, is alone, a very great authority) is full
and decifive in the very point as to a general right of coafifcat-

ing debts of an eneiny. His do&rine I take to be this, that the
law of nations authorifes it, unlefs in former treaqes between
the belligerent powers, there be particular ftipulations to the
contrary. Fattel recognifes the general right, but flates a prevailing cuftom in Europe to the contrary; in confequence of
which he f'ays, " As this cuitom has been generally obferved,
"he who would aat contrary to it would injure the public faith;
"foir itrangers trufled his fubje6}s only from a firm perfuafion
Yattel men"that the geneial cuftom would be obferved."
tions the faft, but does not ftate the origin of the faa ; which, I
think, it is not improbable, may have arifen in confequence of
particular ftipulations, as mentioned by Bynkerjoek; very few of
the civilized nations of Europe, not having treaties with each
other.
Whether this cuftomary law (admitting the principle toprevail by cuftom only) was binding on the American States, during the late'war, in refpect to Great Britain at leaft, may be'
a queftion of confiderable doubt. There were particular circumfiances in the relative fituation of the two countries, which
might poffibly exempt this from the force of fuch a cuftom,
could it be fuppofed thatwhen this country became an independent nation, this cuftomary law immediately attached upon it.
However this country might have been confidered bound to
obferve fach a law in regard to any nation recognizing its independence, had we been unfortunately at war with fuch, and
who cbferved it on her part, (for, undoubtedly, a breach on one
fide would juflify a non-obfervance by the other) it did not necefl'arily follow, that the people of this country were bound to
obferve it to a nation, which not only did not recogidze, bu-t
fought to defiroy their very exiftence as an independent people, confidering them in no other light than as t-raitors, whofe
lives and fortunes were forfeited to the law. The people of
this country literally fought pro aris & focis; and, therefore,
means of defence, which, when inferior obje6s were in view,
might not be ftrialy juflifiable,,might in fuch an extremitybecome fo, onthe great .principle, on which the laws.of war are
founded,

264
1796.

CASEs ruled and adjudged in the

founded, felfprefervation ; an obje6f that may be iittained by

~ any meais, not inconfifrent wlth the eternal and immutable
rules of moral obligation.
The principles of the common law of England, as appears
from a cafe I 1hewed to the bar, (that in Sir Thomas Parker's
Reports, p. 267. the Attorney General againff

Meeden and

Shales) do undoubtedly recognize the forfeiture of a chafe in
aliion due to an enemy. At the utmoff it only requires, that
an inquifition Ihould be completed during the war, fo as, byafcerraining the fa&t, fully to eftablifl the title of the crown. I
can fee no reafbn why that principle of the common law ihould
not obtain here. If fo, then independent of any a't of legiflatioa whatever, an inquifition completed during the war, finding
the fat, would have vefted the title to the debt in queftion abfolutely in the State, unlefs this debt can be dilfinguifbied from
any other chafe in aaion. Such a diftn&ion has been attempted - ift, Becaufe this debt was due before the war. 2d, Becaufe the State had not puffeffion of the bond. To thefe obje6tions, I think, eafy anfwers may be given. ift, The right
acquired by war, (detached from cuftom, which I am not now
confidering, or any exprefs flipulation, if there be fuch) depends
on the power of feizing the enemy's effe5as.

It is not grounded

on any antecedent claim of property, but on the contrary, the
1 operty is admitted to be the enemy's, in the very a& of 1eizing it.* Its fole juftification is, that being forced into a ifate of
hoffility, by an injury for which no fatisfafion could be obtained in a pcaceable manner, reprifals may be made ufe of, as a
means to compel juffice to be done, or to enable the injured
party to obtain fatisfadion for itfel
Su h a power, from its
nature (being grounded on neceflity only) feems incapable of
limitation by any general rule, and if confcientioufly ufed (of
which each nation muff judge for itfelf) the principle applies as
well to property, which was in the country before the war began, as to any other which may by accident come into its pof-

fleffion. The fame objeatiofn would apply to the feizure of any
other property of an enemy, which had been in the country before the war began, as of an incorporeal right. The firfF refolution, in the cafe I cited is, as to chofes in ation generally, tho'
the chofe in action there in queftibn, was, in faa, one which had
accrued during the war. 2d, The objedion from the State
not having poffeffion of the bond, (though countenanced by one
or two writers) I think, is alfo, fufceptible bf a fatisfadory anfwer. TFhe bond does not create the debt, but is only evidence
of it. Poffeflion of it alone can give no right. A robber, or
an individual coming to the poffefon of it by accident, acquires
no more title to the money than he had before. The law is fo
even as to prorniffory notes payable to bearer, if the fa& can be
made

SUPRtME

COURT

of

the United Sta es.

itnade to appear.. If a bond be loft, equity has long fince af- 1796,
,
forded a remedy. In a modern cafe in a cornt of law, a profeit
of a deed has been difpenfed with, upon a fpecial declaration
fiating the lofs of it*. It was while the pqfefion and the right
were confounded, that this objecdion was thought of weight. It
is obfervable alfo, that it would create an idle and a trifling
diftindion betw-en debts due by fpecialty, and fimple contrad
debts, a diftin lion that might be fiupported by ingenuity, but
certainly not by reafon. And it would found harfli, to fay that
fimple contraft debts fhoul,! beforfeitable, ifthe witneffes were
in the country, but otherwife not. Now, if the forfeiture or
the debt in queflion, could have been effected at common law,
by an inquilition completed during the war, I can fee no reafon why the Legiflature could nots with equal propriety as to
the right, have cffrded the fame objeft fubftantially in any
other mode. rhe proceeding, in each cafe, muft be ex parte,
and the cbjed affedled can be conclufively bound by neither, if
his cafe did not come within the principles of the law. This
I argue, upon a fuppolition that the cuftomary law c f nations,
was not binding here, at leaft in this inftance, That, however,
is a point of fone delicacy, and not neceffary for me now to determine, l6ecaufe, 2.d, I am of opinion, that admitting that the
Legiflature had not ft-ridly a right, agreeably to the law of nations, to confifcate the debt in queflion ; yet, if they in fa& did
fo, it would) w!i-le it remained uuimpeached by any (ubfequent
fufficient authority, have been valid and obligatory within the
limits of th,- State, fu as to bar any fuit for the recovery of the
debt.
In this opinion I have the misfortune to differ from a very
high authorityt, for which I have the greateft refpr&. But
however painful it may be, to differ from gentlemen, vhofe fuperior abilities and learning I readily acknowledge, T am under
the indifpenfable neceffity of judging according to the beft lights
of my own underilanding, allifted by all the information I can
acquire. I confefs, therefore, that I agree entirely with the Defendant's counfel in thinking, that the aas of the Legiflatureof the
State, in regard to the fubje6t in queffion, fo far as they were
conformable to the Conflitution of the State, and not in violation of any article of the confederation (where that was concerned) were abfolutely binding defaflo, and that if, in refpea
to foreign nations, or any individual belonging to them, they
were not tiridly warranted by the law of nations, which ought
to
• Real againft rok-a-, 3 Term Rep. 15 t. By three Judges againft one,
in the Coort of King's Bench, in England,
t

Chancellor lythe, of Virgi'ia, who had given a contrary opinion h

idie High Court of Chancery of frginia, a flew days before.

VOL. 111.

M m

266
t.

CAsEs ruled ,and adjudged in the

1796. to have been their guide, the adls were not for that reafon voldi
but the State was anfwerable to the United States, for a violation of the law of nations, which the nation injured might
complain of to the fovereignty of the Union. There is no
doubt that an act of Parliament in Great Britain, would bind
in its own country in every p6flible cafe in which the Legiflature thought proper to ad. Blackylone* is precife as to that
point, even in cafes manifealy unjuff, if the words of the law
are plain and unequivocal, in this contry, thank God, a lefs
arbitrary principle prevails. The power of the Legiflatures
is limited; of the State Legiflatures by their own State Conflitutions, and that of the United States; of the Legiflature of
the Union by the Conflitution of the Union. Beyond thefe
limitations, I have no doubt, their ads are void, becaufe they
are not warranted by the authority given. But within them,
I think, they are in all cafes obligatory in'the country fubjed
to their own immediate jurifdiction, becaufe in fich cafes the
Legiflatures only exercife a ditcretion exprefsly confided to
them by the conftitution of their country, and for the abufe of
which, (if it fhould be abufed) they alone are accountable. It
is a dif~retion no more controulable (as I conceive) by a Court
of Juftice, than a judicial determination is by them, neither
department having any right to encroach on the exclufive province of the other, in order to rectify any error in principle,
'which it may fuppofe the other has committed. It is fufficient
for each to take care that it commits no error of its own. As
to a diftinction between a State Court and this Court, in this
refiect, I do, for my part, difclaim, according to my prefent
E'nrtiments, any authority to give a different decifion in any cafe
w!,atfoever from fuch as a State Court would be competent to
give under the fame circumftances. "Ihave no conception thatthis court is in the nature of a foreign jurifdiction. The
tbing itfelf would be as improper as it would be odious, in cafes vhere acts of the State have a concurrent jurifdiction
with it.
With regard to the exception I fpeak of, no one has fuggeffed, that the adof Oflober, 1777, was in any manner inconfiltent with the Conifitution of the fbate; and at that time the
articles of Confederation were not in force ; but if they had
been, I think there is no colour for alledging any inconfiftency
with them, fince Congrefs could have paffed no adS on this
fuljeai, but'if they had wifhied for an a&, muft have recommended to the State Legiflatures to pafs it. And the
very nature of a recommendation implies, that the party recommending cannot, but the party to whom the recommendation is
mad2, can do the thing recommended.
The
I comm. 91.

SUPIEME C6JRT of the United States.
The 3 d queftion under the prefent head, that I propored,
. was this: " Whether, if it fhall be confidered that the Legif"' lature did not abfolutely confifcate the debt, fo as totally to
extinguifh all right in the creditor, (as I apprehend they clearly did not) but only fequeftered it under the pec uliarcircumfiances flated in the ad; th payment in queftion, under the
authority of the acd, did nor, at that time at leaff, wholly ex,
" onerate the debtor."
The words of the ena&ing claufe concerning this fubje(,
are as follow : "That it fhall and maay be lawful for any citi"tizen of this commonwealth, owing money to a fubjed of
" Great Britain, to pay the fame, or any part thereof, from
" time to time, as he fhall think fit, into the faid loan office,
taking thereout a certificate for the faid fum, in the name ofthe
creditor, with an indorfement under the hand of the commif" fioner of the faid Office, expreffing the name of the payer,
" and ihall deliver fuch certificate to the Governor and Coun, cil, whofe receipt./haft difcharge hinm fron fo much of the debt.
" And the Governor and Council fhall in like manner lay be" fore the General Affembly once in every year, an account of
thefe certificates, fpecifying the names of the perfons, by
" and for whom they were paid, and fhall fee to the fafe,
keeping of the fame; fubjed to the future diredion of the
" Legiflature."
We are too apt, in eftimating a law paffed at a remote period, to combine in our confideration, all the fubfequent events
which have had an influence upon it, inflead of confining ourfelves (which-we ought to do) to the exifting circumflances at
the time of its paffing. Let us, however, recolled, that
at this period no Briti/h creditor could inflitute a fuit for
the recovery of his debt, as the war confiituted him an alien
enemy, and therefore his remedy flood fufpended at common
law, fo that he ran the rirque of the entire lofs of every debt,
where his debtor proved infolvent during the war. Coreqnently, it w6uld, in his own eftimation, have been doing him

a confiderable tervice, that the ffate (hould a.thorile a receipt
on his behalf, had there' been no other currency in circulation
than gold'or filver. It would have been placing him in a fiate
of fecurity, greater than he had any reafon to expec. The
extremity of the public fituation, rendered paper money unaavoidable, but this was an evil to which all 11merican as well
as Britilh creditors were liable, and the former (as we all know)
were compelled, upon a tender, under pain of being deemed
enemies of their countiry, to receive it at its nominal value.
It was-natural (and perhaps) rot altogether, if at all, unjuff,
if a man had I. ico due to him from B. and he himfelf owed
'C. IQO, and B. paid him the 4. ICQ, though in depreciated
money,

1796.

CASES ruled and adjudged in the
1796.

money, that he fhould immediately carry it to his creditor,
SMany, I have no doubt, paid their creditors upon thefe plain
grounds of retribttion, though others undoubtedly (for no government can make all men honeft) took wnoft fcandalous advantages of depreciation in its advanced periods. When this
law was paffed, the depreciation, I believe, was little felt,
and not at all acknowledged. De minimis non curot Zex, is an
old law maxim. I may parody it on this occafion, by faying.
De minimis non curat libertas. When life, liberty, property,
every thing dear to man was at ftake, few could have cohlnefs
of heart enough to watch the then fcarcely perceptible gradation in the value of money. In this fituation the Legiflature
of the ftate paffed the law in queftion. It did all that the then
lituti,)n of afftairs would admit of, even for the benefit of the.
Brtijh creditors themfelves, and it put it in the power of Anmerican creditors, who were compelled to receive the exifling
currency, to pay their own debts with it. The depofiting of
money in the loan office, was at that time by many, even in
A merica itfelf, thought an eligible method of fecuring it, and
with fome'foreigners, it was a favorite objea of fpeculation.
I know, myfelf, that the proceeds of fome very valuable cargoes were ordered to be fo applied, and probably there were
fuch inflances of which 1 knew nothing. The increafed difficulties of the American war, in a great degree, difappointed.
the intentions of the original law, but fill, Britih and American creditors were placed on the fame footing, fo far as it was
in the power of the Legiflature to effe& it.
I thought it proper to fay thus much, as introdutory to the
obfervatio'ns I 1hall make on the legal operation of thofe payments.
-1.If the ftate dejure, according to the law of nations (which
I ftrongly incline to think) had a right wholly to confifcate
this debt, they had undoubtedly a right to proceed a partial
way towards it by receiving the money, and difcharging the
debtor, fubftituting itfelf in his place. We are to be governed by things, and not names, and, confequently, if the ftate
had a right to fay to a debtor-," We confifcate the right of
"your creditor, and you muff pay your debt to us, and not to
. him,"-,--they had a right to fayWe do not chufe for the
prefent, abfolutely to confifcate this debt, although we have
" the power fo to do, but if you will pay the money to us, you
" fhall be as completely difcharged as if we did." Tn this point
of view, I think there can be no doubt but that a difcharge
would, under fuch circumffances, have as completely extin.
guiffhed the right of the creditor as to the debtor, as if, in cafe
110 war had intervened, ard therefore no right had accrued unj" it e the
teas, the debtor had aaually paid the money

SUPREMr COURT of

the United States.

to the order of the creditor, and received a difcharge from 1796.
himfelf.
2. For the reafons I have before given, I think a confifcation, either whole or partial, or any lefs exercife of that power defafo, though not de jure, would in this ftate have been
perfe&ly binding, and in legal contemplation as effeaual to
bar a recovery, as if the law of nations had been firictly and
unqueftionably purfued.
3. I believe there can be no doubt, but that accotding to
the law of nations, even on the moll modern notions of it, a
fequeftration merely for the purpofe of recovering the debts,
and preventing the remittance of them to the enemy, and there-'
by itrengthening him, and weakening the government, would
be allowable, and if fo, furely it fellows, as a matter of courfe,
(perhaps it would follow without L folemn declaration) that
when, in virtue of any fuch act, the money was paid to the government, the debtor was wholly difcharged, and the government, if it thought proper, not to proceed to confifcation afterwards, became itfelf liable.
The cafe cited from the Law of Evidence,* I think is an
authority fubftantially in point) to ihew the complete difcharge
of the debtor.
" In debt upon a leafe, the Defendant pleaded payment, and
in evidence fhewed, he paid it to fequeftrators of the commonwealth, the Plaintiff being a delinquent; and it was
" ruled this was good payment to prove the iffue, which was a'
payment to the Plaintiff himfelf." Clayton, 129. Anonymous
Law of Evidence, (Edit of 1744) p. 196. c. 9. c. i.
This cafe is certainly very firong, for it was not deemed
neceffary to plead it in bar, but it was admitted in evidence,
upon a plea that he paid the money to the Plaintiff himfelf.
It' does not appear whether this action was tried under the
commonwealth, or after the reftoration. If under the former,
it is more parallel to the prefent action. If it was tried after
the reftoration, it is a ffill ftronger cafe, for it hewed that
courts ofjufilice thought themfelves bound to prote& individuals, who aded under laws of a government they deemed an ufurpation, and on all occafions treated with contempt.t Befides
in objeaion, which I fhall notice prefently, I can imagine but
one real difference between that cafe and the one before us ;
and that is, that in England the payment was compelled, here
It
The book commonly called

"

The Old Law of Evidence ;' origi-

pally printed in 1735, and afterwards in 1739 and 1744.

. * Upon confnlting the 3i1/iothca Legum, it appears that Clayton's Repowts
yere publifled in 163il fq that the dlecifion mut have been undxr the

olnro oweatth .

!.7Q
1796.
k

CASES ruled and adjudged in the

it was voluntary.

I once thought that circumfiance of weight'

but on reflecion, 1 confider the public faith equally pledged
in one cafe as in the other ; that the authority exercifed in
both is the fame, and that it not only would be unjuft in itfeff,
but of dangerous example, to tell men that they Ihould be protc'-ed under a compulfory obedience to government, but not
upon a chearful fubihiffioii to it.
4. My obfervations as to the paper money, which the neceffities of this country unfortunately conitrained us to ufe fo long, had
no other tendency than to flhew the circttmftances of the fac as
they really exifled. As a judge, I conceive myfelf bound to
fay, that that makes no difference as to the right. The competency.of fuch a&s at that time was unqueftionable.
Their
juftice depended on the degree of neceffity which gave rife to
them. A payment in paper money, then a legal tender, I muft
confider as complete and effiedual a payment, at that time,
as payment in gold or filver. Such was the law of the country I A law which fevere neceffity ditated ! and by which, in
the courfe of the war, in which many facrifices became unavoidable, many thouf ind American citizens, as well as many
Britih merchants, fuffered. It is the lot of our nature to-experience many evils for which we can find no remedy, and
therefore-nothing can be more fallacious than in any thing of a
general nature, to expeq perfed exatnefs.
For thefe reafons, I am clearly of opinion, that under the
ad of fequeftration, and the payment and difcharge, the difcharge vill be a compjete bar in the prefent cafe, unlefs there
be fomething in the Treaty of Peace to revive the right of the
creditor againift the defendant, fo as to difable the latter from
availing himfelf of the payment into the treafury, in bar to the
prefent adion,
The operation of that Treaty comes, therefore, now to be
confidered. None can reverence the obligation of treaties more
than I do. The peace of mankind, the honour of the human
race, the welfare, perhaps the being of future generations, muft
in no inconfiderable degree depend on the facred obfervance of
national conventions, If ever any p:ople on account of the
importanCe of a treaty, were under additional obligations to
obferve it, the people of the United States furely are to obferve the Treaty in queftion. It gave peace to our country,,
after a war attended with many calamities, and, in fome of its
periods, prefenting a moft melancholy profpe-t, It infured,
fo far as peace could infure, them, the freeft forms of govern,
ment, and the greateftfliare of individual liberty, of which, per,
haps, the world had feen any example. It prefented boundlefs
views of future happinefs and greatnefs, which almofl overpowcr the itnagination, and which, I tral, will not be altogether

Uinrealized-

Si'PREME COURT of the

United States.

unrealized: The means are in our power; wifdom and virtue are
alone required to avail ourfelves of them.

Such was the peace

which was procured by the Treaty now in quef'ion-a treaty
which, when it fhall be fully executed in all its parts, on both
fides, future generations will look up to with gratitude and
admiration, and with no fmall degree of fervour towards thofe
who had an a&ive fhare in procuring it.
In proceeding to examine the treaty with thefe fentimentsj
it may well be imagined I do it with a reverential and facred
awe, left by any mifconftruction of mine, I flhould weaken
any one of its provifions.
The queftion now is, whether, under this treaty, the paymeit
into the Treafury is a bar to fo much of the Plaintiff's claim)
as comprehends money to that amount ?
I (hall examine this queftion Under two divifions
ift. Whether it would have been a bar, as the law exiftcd,
after the ratification of the treaty, and previous to the paiing
of the prefent Confitution of the United States, even if the
words of the treaty muff be conftrued to comprehend fuch a
cafe.
2d. Whether, under that Confitution, it can now be confi-,
dered as a bar.
My opinion, I confers, as to the firfl queftion, is, that if the
treaty had plainly comprchended fuch cafes, the Plaintiff could
not hive recovered in a Court of Juftice in this State, as the
law fRood, previous to the ratification of the prefent Conftitution of the United States.
I feel, as I ought to do, great diffidence, when I am under the
neceffity, in the execution of my duty as a Judge, of differing
from the opinions of thofe entitled from fuperior talents, and high
au thority, to my utmoft refpe&+. I am compelled to do fo in'
the prefent inftance, but I ffiall, at the fame time, affign my reafons for my opinion, and if, in the future courfe of this great
catfe, I can be convinced that in this, or in any other, inflance,
I have committed an error, I fhall moft chearfully acknowledge it.

'he opinion i have long entertained, and frill do entertain,
in regard to the operation of the fourth article is, thatthe ftipu.

lation in favour of creditors, fo as to enable them to bring fiuits,
and recover the full value of their debts, could not at that time
be carried into effe& in any other manner, than by a repeal o(
the ftatutes of the different States, confiituting the impediments
to their recovery, and the paling of fuch other ads as might
be neceffry to give the recovery entire efficacy, in c. ecution
of the treaty.
I confider a treaty, (fneaking generally, independent of the
pai-ticular proviflons on the fubjed, ira our prcfect ConllituI
tioll

1796.

272
1796

CASES ruled and adjudged in

tht

tion, the effea of which I flhal[ afterwards obferve upon) as a
folemn promife by the whole nation, that fuch and fuch things
fball be done, or that fuch and fuch rights fhall be enjoyed.
I think the diftindion taken by the Plaintiff's counfel as to
flipulatiors in the treaty, executed or executory, will enable me
to illuftrate my meaning, by confidering various flipulations in
the treaty in queftion.
I. I will eorifider what may be deemed executed articles.
In this clafs I would place,---the acknowledgement of independence in the firfl article ;-the permiffion to fifh on the
Banks in the third ;--'the acknowledgement of the right to
navigate the Aif Tffippi in the eig~hth..
Thefe I call executed, becaufj, from the nature of them, they
require no further af to be done,
!d. The executory (fo far as they concern our part in the
execution) I would place in three claffes.
Thofe which concern either, ift, the Legiflative Authority.
-2d,
The Executive.-3d, The Judicial.
The fourth article in queftion, I confider to be a provifion,
the puirpofe of which could only be effeded by the Legiflative
authority ; becaufe when a nation promifes to do a thing, it is
to be underflood, thatthis promife is to be carried into execution, in the manner which the Conftitution of that nation
prefcribes.
Wheo, therefore, a treaty flipulates for any thing of a le-'
giflative nature, the manner of giving effe& to this ftipulation
is by that power which poffeffes the Legiflative authority, and
which confequently is authorized to prefcribe laws to the people for their obedience, pafling fuch laws as the public obliga
tion requires. Laws are always feen, and through that medium people know what they have to do.' Treaties are not always feen. Some articles (being what are called fecret articles) the public never fee. The prefent Conflitution of the
United States, affords the firft inflance of any government,
which, by faying, treaties fhould be the fitprene law of the
and, made it indifpenfable that they fhould be publifhed for the
information of all. At the fame time I admit, that a treaty,
when executed purfuant to full power, is valid and obligatory,
in point of moral obligation, on all, as well on the Legiflative,
Executive, and Judicial Departments, (fo far as the authority
of either extends, which in regard to the lafi, muff, in this
rcfpcdt, be very limited) as on every individual of the nation,
unconneded oflicially with either ; becaufe it is a promife in
effe& by the whole nation to another nation, and if not in fad
complied with, unlefs there be valid reafons for non-compliance, the public faith is violated.
I have mentioned this great article which concerns the Legiflati ve

SUPREME COURT

of the United States.

lative department: Let me now, by way of further illufiration, 1796.
confider one which concerns the Executive.
It is flipulated in one part of this treaty, " That all "prifonI very much dou bt,
' ers on both fides fhall be fet at liberty."
whether the Commander in Chief, without orders from Congrefs (then poffefling the fupreme executive authorityof the
Unioii) could have been juftified in releafing fuch priftoners as
he had then in cuftody, after the ratification. Certaiily no
inficrior officer, in whofea&ual care they were, could, without
an order directly or indirectly from the Commander in Chief:
And yet, I can fee no reafon, if a treaty is to be confidered as
operating defal~o, by fuperior au.thority, notwithfianding aly
impediment arifing from laws then in being, why the rigour of the treaty, which in that initance is faid to be* uncontroulable, fhould not be fo in every other. If Legflative authority is fuperfeded, why not Executive ? Surely the former
is not lefs facred than the latter.
in like manner as to the judicial. It is ftipulated in the 6th
article, "1 That there fhall be no future confifcations made, nor
" any profecutions commenced againfil any.perfon or perfons,
" for, or by reafon of any part, which he or they may have taken
1"in the prefent war: and that no perfon fllal], on that account,
"-uffer any future lofs or damage, either in his perfon, liberty,
" or property; and that thofe who may be in confinement on
fuch charges, at the time of the ratification of the treaty in
America, fhall be immediately fet at liberty, and the profecuI apprehend this artions fo commenced, be diicortinued."
ticle, fo far as it refpeded the releafe ofprifoners confined, could
only be executed by an order from the Judges of the Court,
having judicial authority, in the cafes in queftion, in confequence either of an a&ual alteration in the law, by the Legiflature, in conformity to the treaty, (where that was necefary) ;
or, of a particular pardon by the Executive ; and that if a Jailor, merely becaufe the treaty was ratified, and he found this at,
ticle in it, had fet all fuch prifoners at liberty, he would have
been guilty of an efcape.
This reafoning, in my opinion, derives confiderable weight
from the pra&ice in Great Britain.
The King of Great Biitain certainly reprefents the fovereignty of thewhole nationi, as to foreign negociations, as completely as the Congrefs of the United States ever reprefented
the fovereignty of the Union,- in that particular. His power,
as to declaring war and making peace, 'is as unlimited as the
refpeNive. authorities .fio:r thofe purpocs in the United States.The whole nation 0f Great Britain fpeaks as effectuall and
as completely through. him, as all the, people of th e United
States can now fpeak through.Qngrefs, as to a declaration of
-war,
N
V OL. I.1.

.'CAsESriule'd and adjudged inq the

a74

q 6.
e. - i

war, or through the Prefdent and Senate as to m'aking peace.;
and of courfe, as they-ever did through Congrefs, under the old
articles'ofconfeder~tibn, the power cartainly not being leffened.
The law of ih~t6fis, equally applies to his treaties on- behalf of
Great Britain, as it.can apply to any treaty made oil behalf.bf
the United.Stats. Yet, I believe it is an invariable praice
in that country, when the Kin, makes any flipulation ot a legiflative nature, that it is carried into effe6t by an aft, of Parliament. The Parli'iment is confidered as boind, upon a principle of moral obligation; io preferve the public' faith, pledged
by the treatv,.by paffirig fich laws as its obligation requires,
but until fuch lawVs are paffed, the fyafem of law, entitled to actual obedihcee, rermains de faRo, as before. I doubt not, if my
time had admitted ofl a full f.arch, and I could have had accefs
no the p"oper books for information, that I could find many inftancces of this. I will, however, m-ention 6ne, which I have
been able to procure here. It i-s a tranfaaion of this nature,- fo
lare as the c6rhtiercial treaty between Great Britain and
France, in t17:6. The information I derive is from the Ann'al. Rcgitiers 6f',786 and 178, which I fuppofe, as to this
point, are corret.,
, 06e article of the treaty was in thefe words:
',"""The wines of France, imported dire&ly from Fiance to
" Great Britain, flhall, in no cafe, pay aihy higher duties than
" thofe which the winres of Portugal now pay."
Tl'his treaty was figned at fleijaiiles, the 2'6th of September,

1786..

On th- 24th of January,1787, the King met his Parliament,
and arno g other things, jntormed the two houfes, " That he
" had conclhded a treaty of commerce with the French King,
and had ordered a copy of it to be laid before them. He rei cornrended., as the firft objea of their deliberations, the ne2
'6; and exprefid his
"c fbry meafitres for carrying it into efl
'.,ft,
.
that they would find the provilions, contained in it, to

be calculate d for the encouragerient of indutlry, and the ex* tenfion, of lawful commerce in both. countries ; and by pro" moting a beneficial intercourfe between their refpedfive inhabitants, likely to give.additional permanency to the blefilngs
of pace."
On'the 15 th of February, the Houfe of Commons, being in' a
cohimittee of the <vhole houfe, Mr. Pitt, the principal Minifter of the Crown, m6ved the following refolution:
" That the wines h:f Fiance ,1e imported into this country
"'upon as low duties, as the prefe-nt duties paid on'the.importa"'tion of'P6rtugal wines."
.I have not had time to ex,mirn theih all; but, tdbubtnot,-it
will be found, on infpeaion, tha:.t;ere was -il6a fingle provifion

Su-P.rTJIE CouaT of tie Un;ted States.

*finn 'in:thtreaty, i,nqoritftftt with f'Ormerparliamentay'regul'ations,, but Pariiame.jit acqIed. upon. it by a new law, calculated
.
to .give it eTe.

T le. follqwirig quo aDtin,, (which is. a. literal one). I think, is
Very much to the puir.pnf-.
" On.-th Mondqy.fplovJi.¢g th.. re.port of the committee,
upoa the'corori

.l treat.y,, was brought up, and, on the

motionbeilt1 rtnidc, that the lufe do. agree to tle
".fate, ioric.was toketi .bf the oni i6on of the mention of Ir"'uVfal;

afked,
Kas
. land, boHi in, th treaty and the Tii ; , nd, it
."':NAlhether or no fe was nlderftood to be ilicluded in it ? To
" thig queftion Mr. Pitt replied, That Ireland was umdoubtedly
- entitled to ali'the benefits of til treaty,; but it was entirely
" at her o*ri hRtion, wh1'ethbr flie. would choofe 'to avail herfelf
5 of thofe a vantages ; for it was. only to be done, by. her payig
"fuch laws as jhould put the Tariff on the fame footing in that
saSfiipulatejdoul be done in this. Had the
country a it
'q adoption of-the tr6aty by Ireland, lbeen a flipulation neceflhry
' to. be. perfortned: before it could be finally concluded o0q in
" this country, then this country would have been djpilved of
" all the behefits, refulting (romi it.in tle. event 9f .r.elindis
.
. . :
. ..
" refufal."

- Nb6 ' it is obfervable, th3V in.fpqaking'of thi Tariff, in tle
treatyj the King of' Greaft:B.riqii does not p iomife; that the
the language
I-an;.t,
..Nrlinent Jhallpf laws, tbfuck an

, the two high co.ntr.aling parties have thouip.t, proper to
duties on certain -,ods and, rnerchandi:es, in ordr
fettle'the
'
! 'to fix invariablyi the fo.oting, on which the trade therein fliall
p i,ccif
,' b'e dflabhiffied, bctav;en thetwo natnis. InCcorreqte

."

which, they have gitea.d; upon the following TarifF, &c ",vii.
In another 'art, the Iing of Great Britain fays,
tannic Majefly referves the right of co pntcrvailing
SHis
.

by additional duties on the undermentioned merchandifcs, the
interndl duties aotually impofed upon the inanufaatre., or
!" the import duties whijc. aire charged on the raw materials.;
na.riel.y, on all .inefi or cittpns, fftihied or painted,, on beer,
"gl~kfs-warei pllgtc'-e afr,, a.nd iron."
n
o. .. e.
Here is no menti6nbf the Parliament, and yet, no man living
."

will fay thata bar.e:proclamntion. of the Kiiig, upon the ground

of the treaty,. would be; au authority for the levying of any du*ties iWhatever; but it, muf .e aomie in the conflitutional mode, by
,act of, parlifment, which affords an addiiional proof, th:t .where
any thing of a legiflative nature is in contemplti.on, it is conffantly implied and .tnderftood,

(without exprefs words) that

it can, alone be effeaed by the medium of tile legiflative'au7
tlhority.
That
'

I

.276 ,

sCASEs
ruled and adjudged in the

1796,
That this praclice I have noticed is not an otcafgonal one,
%-o j but has been conftantly obferved, I think is, highly probable
from 'this circumfiance ; that if treaties were confidered in that
country as ipfo fato repealing all laws inconfiftent with them,
and impofing new ones, they ought tobe bound up with the
fiatutes at large, (which they never have beer) otherwife the
publication would be at leafi incomplete, if not deceitful.
Thefe examples from Great Britain I confider of very high
authority, as they are taken from a kingdom equally bound by
the law of nations as we are; poffeffing a 'mixed form of governihent as we do ; and, fo far as common principles of le-giflation are concerned, being the very country frorh which we
derive the rudiments of our'legal ideas.
But I muf admit that there is alfo a very high authority,
and to which we naturally fhould be more partial, againft this
coni-rudion. It is the authority of the Congrefs of the Unit.
ed States in the year 1787. It is au authority derived from an
unanimous cipinion of that truly refpedable body, conveyed in
a circular letter from Congrefs to the different States on this
very fujbjed, I bow with proper deference to that great authority: But I fhould be unworthy of the high flation I hold,
if I did not fpeak my real fentiments as a judge, uninfluenced
'by any authority Whatfoever., "It is certain, thai in this. particular, Congrefs were ,not exercifing a judicial power; and,
therefore, the opinion i5 not conclufive on any court ofjuftice.
I feel, however fome confolation in differing' from an opinion
for which fo much refpe& muff, and ought to be eitertained,
by refleding that though this was the unanimous 6pinion
of Congrefs, it was not the unanimous opinion of the
people of the United States. So far from it, that I believe
no fuit was ever maintained in any court in the United States,
merely on the footing of the treaty when an a6.0f the ligieature flood in the way. It was to remove the obifacle arifing
from fuch an opinion, that Congrefs recommended the repeal
of all adts inconfiflent with the due execution of the treaty.
And I muff with due fubmiflion fay, that in my opinion without fuch a repeal, no Britih creditor could have maintained a fuit
in virtue of the treaty, where any legiflative impediment exiffed,
until the prefent confitution of the United States was formed.
2d. The article in the conflitution concerning treatiesIhave
always confidered, and do now confider, was in confequence
of the conflid of opinions I have mentioned on the fubje6 of
the treaty in queftion. It was found in this inflance, as in
many others, that when thirteen different .legiflatures were
neceflItry to 'ad in unifon on many occafions, it was in vain
to expe
that they would always, agree to a6 as Congrefs
aiigh t hink it their duty to require. Iequifitions formerly
were

SUPREME

COURT of.the United.States.

2,77

were madv binding in point of moral obligation, (fo-far as the
amount of money was concerned, of which Congrefs was the,'
conflitutional jtjdge,) but the right and the power being feparated; -it ,*as found often .imlradicable to make them adt in
.difficulty, which every one
corjun6}ion. To obviate thi's
knows had-been, 'the means of greatly diftreffing the union,, and

injuringits publiccredit, a pow" .was 'giveh tothe Reprefentatives of the whole union to raife.taxes by their own authority
for the good of the whole. Similar embarraffinents had been
found about the treaty. This was binding in moral obigation,
buf could not'be conftitdtionally carried into effed (at leaft in
the opinion of 'many,).fo far as a-ts of legiflation then in being
conflituted an impediment, but by a'r'epeal. rhe extreme inconveniencies felt from fuch a fyftem diffited the remedy which
the conflitution has now provided, ".that all .treaties. made
" or-which fhall be made under the authority of the United
4 States, flhall,be the. fp'remne law of the land; and that the
"judges in every State finall be bound thereby, any thing in
" the conftitution or laws.of any Stateto the contrary not'
",withfianding. " Un'.der this.Conflitution therefore,,fo far as
.a treaty conflitutionally isbinding, upon principles of moral
obligation, it i- alfq by-the vigout" bf its own authority to be
executed in fad. - It would not otherwife be the ]iipreme law
in the new fenfe provided for,.and it was.fo before in a moral
fenfe.
The provifion extends to fubfifiirig as well as to future
treaties. I confider, therefore, that.when this conflitution was
ratified, the cafe. as to the treaty in.queflion flood upon the
fame footing, as if cvery.adl coniftituting an impediment to a
creditof's recoverv had been expresfly repealed, and any further ad palfd, which the public obligation had before required,
if a repeal one would not have been fufficient.
. Before I go to the confideration of the words of the treaty
itfelf, I think it material to fay a few words as to the operation
which an adufl repeal would have had.
I believe no one will doubt, that every thing done under the
afi while in ex ?ence, fo far as.private rights at leaft were con-,
cerned, would have been unaffecded by the repeal. If a flatute requires a will of lands to be executed in the prefence of
two witneffes ; and a will is adually executed in that manner,
;td the flatute is afterwards repealed, and three witneffes are
made neceffary, the will executed in the prefence of two others,
when the former flatu: was in being, would be undoubtedly good ;
and if I ,m not niitaken, a will made according to a law in
being has been held good, even though the devifor died after
pn alteration of it. Of this, however, I am not fure; but
-the.general pofton, I imagine, will not be queftioi ed.

et

1796.

*

,7 )6.
A

'.ASES

Yiled

an-d adjudged: -in the.

:Let 's now-fee the 'words of the treatV.
They are thefe:
I t is. agreed, that creditors 6n either fide;fhallbmet with
'S no l wful, -impediment to the recovery of'the full val:ue in

CIflerling n~oney, of all Lo
dfe
. debts lierefoforecO'ntra~ced"
Themening 'of this provifion may perh'aps blebetter, confidered by ananalyfition of -its- parts;' fo'far. as- they concern
the quuffion beforeus.
.
I.: C reditor .- There can be no'cieditor"Without two cotrelativ*d;s 'a debtort and a debt

.

.

.

Prima',facie; therefore, if a debtor ha's been difcharged , he is
not h&' perfon wh6m any other perfon can fue as a' creditr.
This probably mayvb fairly applied to the prefent "Defendant,
who as, a debtor wastd'harged by legal 'authority.

With. regard to the 'debt, that in the prefent inflance was
not etinguifhed even by. the aa of the State, becaufe the right
of the creditor to the mon.ey was not tken away.

The debt, therefore, remains but not fromn the fame debtor.
The flate may. be corifidered as, fubilitutingr itfelf in fome ieafure in-the place of the debtor. The. full e'e& of that fubftitution, I-am not'now to confidei'; nor would it be proper for
me at prefent to give an opinion upon it.- The .qu'efti6n is
not, whether the creditor is entitlkd to his. moniey,. or in what
manner, butwhet.her.he is entitled to recover-it againft the
p'efent Defendant.
2. No /laful impediment.

Thefe words mio be cor.firued as relative to the. forme,,
for the whole claufe muff be taken together. Therefore,
where there are a creditor and a debtor, there is to be no lawful impediment to t.he former recoveriing againft the latter.
If the.prefent Defeniant be not a debtor to the PlaintifF,

how can the treAty operate as againift him ?
The words I lawful impediment," may admit of two fenfes.
One--" Any lawful impedirent whatfoever arifinr, frorm'
iony a&t done to the prejudice-ofa creditor's right during the
' war." I add that refiridion ' during the war,"' becaufe
the rules of conftruiion as to treaties, utll narroWx the x'ords
asto the obje_t, the. war, the .affairs of which the Treaty of
Peace was inttended to operate-upon.
Or, I any. impediment arifing from any law then in being,
or thereafter to be paffed, to the. prejudice of a creditor's
rTight.''

•,

The latter, I think,, is not an unnatural c'onflrufioh,, and
would giye the words great operation, and I think is. to be
preferred to the former,: for the following reafons':
i. This. would flipulate for what each Legiflature of the
Union would rightfully and honeftly do, relinquifl [ublic claims

SuPkEmE 'Cot;r of. the Unitcd,Stgtej.

279

rjaebts eijling before the war, .nd-i hi~h" ,otberwife might
have flood upon a..' reeariojs footing ; for thbugh' peace alone k
vzould do 'away.a omn)of lawdfability tofue, yet [apprehend
it Would not irfofacT.:,removea difability exprefsly, created.by
fiattite, m.uch letd ;extinguifh any-public right acquir'dd under
any a
of confifcation."
2. Tough Congrcfs poflibl" might, .as;tlie price of peace,
have :been authorifed to give up, even rights fully: 'acquired by
private.petfons during the x.r, more efpecially if'derived from
the laws of war only againit ihe enemy, and in .that cafe the
individual mi2ht hive been' tit'ed to 'compenfation ifr6m the
puflic, for whofe in erefas his own*rights werd facrificed; yet,
nothing'but th'.e moft, rigorous neceflity could juftify fiich a
facrifice; fuch'a f:crifice is not to be prefu'med even to. have
bccej! intelided, unde'r the operation of g neral ,ords,' "not maki-ng fuch a conftru,1ion una;voidable. For, it is reafojiable to
infefr,.t6hat in fuch a cafe. fpcpial w.ords "wo.uld have been ufed
..
. . ,
t',bviate the Dsaft colouiable doubt.
Thus (for e,-ainple) if it.was fipulated in a treaty:of peace
between tWo' Europcan powers,' " that, all fhips, taken .dt
ring thb war fhould be reflkoved," I irning'e this .would not
be c6nftr'ied to include flips taken by privateers, and le ga~ly
condemned during. the war, unlefs it had, in fa&, happened
that n6 other fThips had been taken, and then I fuppofe.they
w/ould be:uriderflood as comprehe:nded, and their oi'n nation
n.u' have indemnified their.
1. If, according to the pra,Iice in Great Britain, in conformity to the law of nations, and upon the principles of a mixed goveinient, in cafe any impediments had then exlj(ed, by
ai ts oJ. P'ib-liabnent in Great,-Britain,to the' recover'y of American debts, fi-ch impediments '.could only have been removed by a
repeal, we niay-prefbne the Britiljh negociator had reafon to
conclude, that the lauful impediments in, this country could ohty be relmoved in the fame manner ; and if 1b, may we not fair ly fay, that. the impediments in view could be no other than
ftch as :the Legiflaturcs. in the refpeative countries could do
aw y.by a repeal, or 6itight by fubfequent laws enact ? If they
.,vairt. d a fur.ther act of 1.egiflation, groundcd not merely on ordii)ary legiflative, authority, but upon power to deffr.oy.private
ligbts acquired under legi'flati.e:faith, long fince.pledged and
relied on, very fteCial *words Wet e proper to'effect that object,
and neither ii one country.nor the other could it have been effect,.wijvth the l&at c(loau.rofjuitice, but by .providiig at the
iame time the 5ulft mea ns, of ndem'nification.,
. ., Thi's con' truftioh drives, great weig.ht fiorri the rcconi'rneodatoiy letter of,'C ongerefs' I befor m6ntioifd,,for I will'
vcnture.t6 faiw, -had the:a thby.xecomzidiiddd been paffed in
the

i 796;

280

CsEs 'uled and adjudged in the

I796. the State, in the very"words they recommended, they would
not have had efficacy entough to defiroy thofe payments as a
bar. And yet , if Congrefs thought fuch a cafe ought to have
been comprehended, I:prefume'they would h'ave recommended
a fpecial provifion,, clearly comprehending fuch cafes, and accompanied with a full indemnity.
I faid the'words of the treaty would have great operation,
without giving them the very rigorous one contended for.
And that will more fully appear. when we take up the remaining words,.viz.
3. " To the recovery of the full value in ferling money of
" all bonafide debts heretofore contracted.
The opera'tion (exclufive of thefe payments) would there-fore be this:
ift. All creditors whofe debts had not 'been confifcated, or
where the conrficiations were not complete, and no payments
had been. made, would have a right of recovering their debts.
2d. Perhaps all creditors, whether their debts were confifcated or not, or whriher confifcations were complete or not,
excepting thofe only from whom the government had received
the money, would be entitled to recover, becaufe unddubtedly
the refpedive Legiflatures were competent to re/flre all thefe.
3 d. Another object of no fiall importance, was to Jecure
the payment of all thefe debts injterling money, fo that the creditors might not fuffer by paper currency, eiLher then in exiftence, or that might be thereaftcr emitted.
When thefe general words, therefore, can comprehend f&
many cafes, all realonable objects of the article, I cannot
think I am compelled as a-Judge, and therefore I ought not to

do fo, to f.iy that the general words of this article, hall extinguilhprivate as well as public'rights.

I hold public faith fo facred, when once pledged either to
citizens or to foreigners, that a violation of that faith is never
to be inferred as even in contemplation, but when it is impoflible to give any other reafonable conifruction to a public act. 1
do not clearly fee that it was intended in the prefent inflance.
I cannot therefore brihg mvfelf to fay, that theprefent Defendant having once lawfully paidthe money, fhall pay it over again.

Ifthe matter be only doubtful, I think the doubt ffiould incline
in favour of an innocent individual, hnd not againf1 him. I
fhoull hope that the prefent Plaintiff will Erill receive his money, as his right to the money certainly has not been divefled,
but I think for all the reafons I'have given, he is not entitled
to recover it from the prefent Defendant.
My. opinion, therefore, on the whole of this cafe i§, that':
j'idgment ought to be given for the Defendant upon the fecond
;lcauon the third, fourth and fifth for the Plaintiff..
.

SUPkEM't Co URT of the United States.

1796.
WILsoN, Yzflice. I fhallbe concife in delivering my opinion, as it depends on a few plain principles.
If Virginia had a power to pafs the law of O8ober 1777,
the muft be -equally empowered to pafs a fimilar law in any future war ; for, the powers of Congrefs were, in fa&, abridged by the articles of confederation ; and in relation to the preent Con{}itution, fhe flill retains her fovereignty and independence as a State, except in the inftances of exprefs delegation to the Federal Government.There are two points involved in the difcuffion of this power
of confifcation: The firif arifing from the rule preferibed by
the law of nations ; and the fecond arifing from the conitruction of the treaty of peace.
When the United States declared their independence, they
were bound to receive the law of nations, in its modern f{ate
of purity and refinement. ' By every nation, whatever is it.s
form of government, the confifcation of debts has long been
confidered difreputable: and, we know, that not a fingle
confifcation of that kind ftained the code of any of the European powers, who were engaged in the war, which our revo-.
lution produced. Nor did any authority for the confifcation of
debts p*oceed from Congrefs (that body, which clearly poffeffed the right of confifcation, as an incident of the powers of
war and peace) and, therefore, in no inftance can the a& of
confifcation be confidered as an a& of the nation.
But even if /irginia had the power to confifcate, the treaty
annuls the confifcation. The fourth article is well exprefled to
meet the very cafe : it is not confined to debts exifting at the
time of making the treaty; but is extended to debts heretofore
contradted. It is impoffible by any gloffary, or argument, to
make the words more perfpicuous, more conclufive, than by a
bare recital. Independent, therefore, of the Conftitution of
the United States, (which authoritatively inculcates the obligation of contra&s) the treaty is fufficient to remove every impediment founded on the law of Virginia. The State made
the law ; the State was a party to the making of the treaty : a
law does nothing more than exprefs the will of a nation ; and a
treaty does the fame.
Under this general view of the fubje&, I think the judgnment of the Circuit Court ought to be reverfed.
CUsHING, Jtf/ice. My ftate of this cafe will, agreeably to
my view of it, be fhort, I fhall not quef'ion the right of a
State to confifcate debts. Here is an aat of the Affembly of
'irginia, paffed in 1777, rofpeding debts; which contemplating to prevent the enemy deriving ftrength by the receipt
of them during the war, 'provides, that if any Britib debtor
will pay his debt into the Loan Office, obtain a certificate and
VOL. III.

0

freceipt

292

CASES ruled and adjudged in the

1796. receiptas directed, he flhall he difcharged from fo much of the
debt. But an intent is expreffed in the act not to confifcate,.
unlefs Great Britain fhould fEt the example. This act, it is
faid, works a difcharge and a bar to the payer. If fuch payment is to be confidered as a difcharge, or a bar, fo long as the
act had force, the queffion occurs;VWas there a power, by
the treaty, fuppofing it*contained proper words, entirely to remove this law, and this bar, out of the creditor's way ?
This power feems not to have been contended againit, by the
Defendant's council: And, indeed, it cannot be denied ; the
treaty havinz been fanctioned, in all its parts, by the Conftitu'tion of the Onited States, as the fupreme law of the land.
Then arifes the great queftion, upon the import of the fourth
article of the treaty: And to me, the plain and obvious meaning of it, goes to nullify, abinitio, all laws; or the impediments
of any law, as far as they might have been defigned to impair,
or impede, the creditor's right, or remedy, againif his original
debtor. " Creditorson eitherfide fhallmeet with no lawfu im"pediment ti the recovery of the full value injterling money, of
' all bona fide debts heretofore contraeded."

The article fpeaking of creditors, and bona. fide debts heretofore contracted, plainly contemplates debts, as oiginally
contracted, and creditors and original debtors; removing out bf
the wayall legal impediments; fo that a recovery might be
had, as if no fu'ch laws had particularly interpofed. The
words-I" recovery of the full value in fterling money," if
they have force, or meaning, muff annihilate all tender laws,
making any thing a tender, but fterling money; and the other
words, or atleaft the whole taken together, muff, in like manner, remove all other impediments of law, aimed at the recovery of thofe debts.
. What has fibme force to confirm this conflrixdion, is the
fenfe of all Europe, that fuch debts could not be touched by
States, without a breach of public faith : And f6r that, and
other reafons, no doubt, this provifton was infifted upon, in
full latitude, by the Britih negotiators. If the fenfe of the
article be, as ifated, it obviates, at once, all the ingenious,
metaphyfical, reafoning and refinement upon the words, debt,
difcharge, extinguibhment, and affords an ani'ver to the decifion

made in the time of the interregnum-that payment to fequeftors, was payment to the creditor.

A State may make what rules it pleafes; and thofe rules
muft neceffarily have place within itfelf.
But here is a treaty, the fuprenie law, which overrules all
State laws upon the fubjeft, to all intents and purpofes ; and
that makes the diffirence. Diverfe objeftions are made to this
conmfruaion: That it is an odious one, and as fuch, ought to
be

SUPRhME COURT

of the United States

'be avoided : That treaties regard the exiling ftate of things :
That it would carry an imputation upon public faith: That it

is founded on the power of eminent domain, which ought not
to be cxercifed, but upon the moft urgent occafioris: That the
negociators themfelves did not think they had power to repeal
laws of confifcation; becaufe they, by the 5th article, only
'agreed, that Congrefs (hould recommend a repeal to the States.
As to the rule refpeding odious coifru&ions ; that takes
place where the meaning is doubtful, not where it is clear, as
I think it is in this cafe. But it can hardly be confidered as an
odious thing, to inforce the payment of an honeft debt, according to the true intenit and meaning of the parties contra&ing ;
efpecially if, as in this cafe, the State having received the money, is bound in julice and honor, to indemnify the debtor, for
what it in fad received. In whatever other lights this ad of
Affembly may be reviewed, I confider it in one, as containing

a Itrong implied engagement, on the part of the State, to indemnify every one who fhould pay money under it, purfuant to
the invitation it held out.
Having never confifcated the debt, the State muft, in the
nature and reafon of things, confider itfelf as anfwerable to the
value. And this feems to be the full fenfe of the legiflators
upon this fubjed, in a fubfequent ad of affembly; bht the
treaty holds the original debtor anfwerable to his creditor, as I
underftand the matter. The State, therefore, mut be refponfible to the debtor.
Thefe confiderations will, in effedf, exclude the idea of
the power of eminent domain; and if they did not, yet there
was fufficient authority to exercife it, and the greateft occafion

that perhaps could ever happen. The fame confiderations will
alfo take away all ground of imputation upon public faith.
Again, the treaty regarded the exiling Rate of things, by
removing the laws then exiling, which intended to defeat the
creditor of his ufual remedy at law.
As to the obfervations upon the recommendatory provifion
of the 5 th article; I do not fee that we can collet the private
opinion of the negociators, refpe&ing their powers, by what
they did not do: and if we could, this court is not bound by
their opinion, unlefs the reafons on which it was founded, being
known, were convincing. It would be hard upon them, to fuppofe
they gave'up all, that they might think they firidly had a right to
give up. We may allow fomewhat to fkill, policy and fidelity.
With refpe& to confifcations of real and perfonal elates,

which had been compleated, the eftares fold, and, perhaps, paffed
through the hands of a number ofpurchafors, and improvements
made upon real elates, by the then poffeffors ; they knew, that
to give them up abfolutely, muft create much confufion in this
cour try

1796&

CASES ruled and adjudged in the

1796.

country. Avoiding that, (whether from an apprehenfion of
want of power does not appear from the inftrument) they were
lead only to agree, that Congiefs ihould recommend a reftitution, or compofition.
The 4 th article, which is particularly and folely employed
about debts, makes provifion, according to the do6trine then
held facred by all the fovereigns of Europe.
Although our negociators did not gain an exemption for individuals, from bonafide debts, contracted in time of peace, yet
they gained much for this country : as rights of fiffiery, large
,boundaries! a fettled peace, and abfolute independence, with
their concomitant and confequent advamtages: All which, it
might not have been prudent for them to r'ifque, by obffinately
infiffing 'on "fuch" exemption, either in whole or in part, contrary to the 'humane and meliorated policy of the civiliied
world, in this particular. '
The 5th article, it is conceived, can not affe& or alter the
conftrufEiion of the 4 th article.' For, firft, it is againif reafon,
that a fpecial provifion m'ade'refpeting debts by name, fhould
be taken away immediately after, in the next article, by general
words, or words of implication, 'which words too, have, otherwife, ample matter to operate upon. ' ad. No implication7 from
the 5th article, can touch the prefent cafe, becaufe that fpeaks
only of a6tual confifcations, and here was'n& confifcation. If
we believe the Jirginialegiflators, they. fay," We do not con" fifcate-we will not confifcate debts, "unlefs'Great Britain
fets the example," which it is not pretended he ever did.
The provifion, that " Creditors Ihall meet 'with no lawful
"impediment," &c. is as abfolute, unconditional, and peremptory,
as words can well exprefs, and made not to depend on the will
and pleafure, or the optional condu6t of any body of men whatever.
To effe& the objed intended, there is no want of proper
and ftrong language ; there is no Wvant of power, the treaty being fanaioned as the fupreme law, by the conflitution of the
United States, which nobody pretends to deny to be paramount
and controlling to all ifate laws, and even ftate confiitutions,
wherefoever they interfere or difagree.
The treaty, then, as to the point in queftion, is-qf equal force
with the coniitution itfelf; and certainly, with an'y, law whatfoyer. And the words, " Jhall meet with no laeuful impedimient," &c. are as ffrong as the wit of man could devife, to
avoid all effc~ts of fequeftration, confifcation, or any other obIlacle thrown in the way, by any law, particularly pointed
againft the recovery of fitch debts.
I am, therefore, of opinion, that' the judgment of the Circuit
1ourt ought. to be reverfed.
".'"

.

. "...

"

.

.

B y

SUPREME

COUkT'Of the United States.

x796.
BY THE COURT. All and fingular the premifesbeingfeen
by the court here and fully underflood, and mature deliberation
had thereon, becaufe it appears to the court now here, that in
the record and procefs aforefaid, and alfo in the rendition of the
judgment aforefaid, upon the demurrer to the rejoinder of the
Defendants in error, to the replication of the fecond plea, it is
manifeffly erred, it is confidered that the f-aid judgment for
thofe errors and others in the record and procefs aforefaid, be
revoked and annulled, and altogether held for nought, and it
is further confidered by the court here, that the, Plaintiff in
error recover againfi the Defendants, two thoufand nine hundred and feventy-fix pounds, eleven fhillings and fix-pence,
good Britijh money, c mmonly called flerling money, his debt
aforefaid, and his cofis by him about his fuit .in this behalf expended, and the (aid Defendants, in mercy, &c. But this
judgment is to be difcharged by the payment of the fum of 596
dollars, and intereft thereon to be computed after the rate of
five per cent per annum, from the 7 th day of July, 1782, till
payment, befides the cofts, and by the payment of fuch damages as lhall be awarded to the Plaintiff in error, on a writ of
enquiry to be iffued by the Circuit Court of Firginia, to afcertain the fum really due to the Plaintiff in error, exclufiveJy of the (aid fum of 596 dollars, which was found to be due to
the Plaintiff in error, upon the trial in the laid Circuit Court,
on the iffue joined upon the Defendant's plea of payment, at
a time when the judgment of the (aid Circuit Court on the faid'
demurrer was unreverfed and in full force and vigor, and for
the execution of the judgment of the court, the caufe aforefaid
is remanded to the faid Circuit Cotirt of Virginia.
JUDGMENT reverfed.

GEYER,et al. verfus MICHEL, et al. and the fhip
DEN ONZEKERE1.

T

HIS was a Writ of Error to the Circuit Court, for the

Diftri&. of South Carolina;and, on the return of the record, the following pleadings appeared:

