S UPRE1

'

COURT of the United States.

3o5

1796.

14UNTER

verfus FAiRFAX'S Devifee.

B

Y order of the court, a letter from the Plaintiff in error;
dated the 29 th of Jul, i796, and dire6&ed to the Clerk;
was read. The letter fated, " that the Plaintiff had, employed Mr. Campbell, of FTirginia t argue the caufe ,-that on the
25 th of July, he was informed, that Mr. Campbell had died in
Rlchmdond, on- the i8th of the farie, ibnth; and that, being
left without c6unfel, in confetuence of this event, he prayed the
caufe might be continued till next term.".
Lie and Ingerfoll, in 6bje&i6n to the requeft, ftted, that;
from the nature of the caufe, delay would be worfe to the Defendant in error, than a decifion adverfe to his claim ; that the
Plaintiff ought always to be ready for trial; that there had been
fufficient notice of Mr. Campbell's death, for engaging the affiflance of other counfel; that the cafe 'depended entirely on
the record, might yet be ctiitfidered by counfel, fo as to obtain
a decifion during this court, and thdt it had already boen poftfponed one terms at the inftance of the Plaintiff in error.
But, BY THE COuRPT :--'In all queflions of this nature, we
muff be governed by a found diferetion; in order to prevent;
on the one hand, an unneceffary procraftination, and, on the
other hand, to avoid an injurious precipitation of trials: In the
prefent inftance, we think there is a fufficient foundatiQn laid
before us, to juftify our granting a continuance 'till the next
Term. If the caufe were now to be.taken up, it muff be heard
and decided ex parte. 'It is true, that counfel might even
at this time be employed, fo as to admit; perhaps, 6f an argument before the court riles ; btt it is reafonable, thatin a
taufe of fuch magnitude, '4 the counfel fhould have an opportunity
* The Attoriey Ge'nerdl Aated the p6int in controverfy to arife on

thefe fat5ti: Lord Fairfax was a citizen ofVirginia, and died in the year

VOL. II.R

r

1780 ;

306

CUSES ruled and adjudged in the

1796. tunity to inveftigate the principles, and to confider the authorities conne&ed with it, out of term, and unencumbered b '
the preffure of the current bufinefs of the court.
Let the Caufe be cortinued.

ARCAMBkL verfus WIAsMAN.

#fVHE deciee of the, Circuit Court, for the Ditlri6I of
jL Rhode Ijland, was affirmed in this caufe, without argument, the principal quefilon, Ahich it involved, having been
juff decided upon the difculion of another writ of error. It
appeared, however, by an eftimate of the damages on which
the decree was founded, and which was annexed to the record,
that a charge of i6oo dollars for counfel's fees in the courts
below, had beeen allowed ; to which Coxe objeCted; and Ingerfoll contended that it might fairly be included under the
d
idea of damages. But
By ,THEtOURT:-W e do not think that this charge ought
to be allowed. The general praffice of the United States is
in opofition to it; and even if that pradice were not ftri~lly
correa in principle, it is entitled to the refped of the court,
till it is changed, or -modified, by itatute. ,
There are feveral ways in wlflch the charge may be expunged: but we recommend as, perhaps, the eafieft way, that
the counfel for the Defendant in error, fhould enter a eemnitti,
tur for the amount.
A remittitur was accordingly entered.
MOODIE
178e ; havifig made a will by withli he devifed certain lands in that
1ate to the Defendant in eiror, who then was, and ever has been, a
Britifl fubje&, refident in Oreat Britain. The queftion is5 whether being thus an alien, the Defendant in error call take and hold the lapds by dcvile ? And, it will be contended, that his title is completely prote&ed
by the Treaty of Peace, concluded between the United States and Great
Britain, in the year 1783.
CHASE,
iulice
: I reeolleL, that in H-arrifon's cafe, a decifion in favor
offuch a devifee's title was given, by a court in Maryland. It is a
matter, howeVer, of gret mollmisent ; and ottght tO be deliberately aad
finally fettled.

