4t
a9.
.y

CAsts ruled and adjudged in the
and that he duly received notice of the proteft of the faid bill,,
for non-acceptance and non-payment.
" That on or about the twenty-fifth day of May one thoufand
feven hundred and ninety-two, the Dfendant removed to the
city of Philadelphia, in the Rlate of Pent.{ylvania, where he

has refided fince that period. That fhortly after his removal
to Philaddphia,viz. on or about the feventh day of 7une, one
thoufand feven hundred and ninety-two, a commiflion of bankiuptcv was awarded and iffued forth againrft him, in purfuance
b"two certain a6ts or 1atutes of the fAd (late of Pennfylvania,
ihe one entitled " An a&t for the regulation of bankruptcy ;"
the other entitled, "An a&1 to amend an a&l entitled, an a6t for
" the regulation of bankruzptcy :" And in purfuance of which faid
I atutes the Defendant did a6tually deliver, affign and transfer,
to the co nfniflioners appointed under the fAid commiflion, the
whole of his efc q,as well in the late of Pennfylvania as elfewhere which &Onfifted principally of credits due to the faid
Defendant, in the State of New .2ork. It is further admitted,
that the faid Yohbi Dewhurfl in all things complied with the
faid Rtatutes of bankrupt)y before referred to, and that on the
eleventh oflugufl, one thoufand reven hundred and ninetytwo, he obtained a certificate of bankruptcy duly executed.
"Upon the above (late of the cafe, it is fubmitted to the Su..
Preme Court' of the United States, to determine, whether the
certificate iffued under the laws of Pennfylvania, operates as a
difchhae of the faid debt, notwithftanding its being contra&ed
iil
anotT& (ate, where there was no bankru'pt laws, and while
the Defend6Ant Was refident in the (ald (late of New-ork. If
the court fhould be of opinion that it does, it is agreed that
judgment be entered for the D2fendant; otherwife for the
Plaintiff, for eleven hundred and twenty dollars damages, and
'fix cents coftsY'
I'A, co4jR*r, on the' enfuing morning, returned the
ilate of'the cafej declaring, that they could not take cognizance
of any fuit or controverfy, which was not brought before them,
by the regular procefs of the law.
MoT Io1 refufedi.

M

Ex parte HALLOWELL.

,R.11:7owel had been admittted, originally, as an Attor4
ncy )f this court; but now Lewlt moved, that his
na re

SUPREME COURT

of the United States

name fhould be taken from the roll of aitorriies, and placed on"
the lift of counfellors.
THE COURT direled the transfer to be made; and Mr.
Hallowell was qualified, de novo, as counfellor.

FOWLER

et-al. vs.

LINDSEY, et a!.

FOWLER et al. vs. MILLER.

A RULE had been originally ob.tained in thefe a&ionS(which were depending in the Ciicuit Court for the
)iftri&6t of Conneicut) at the inftance of the Defendants, requiring the Plaintiff to fhew caufe, why a Venire fhould hot
be awarded to fummon a Jury from fome D.iftri&, other thaa

that of'Gdnnejicut or New--York ; but it was changcd,, by con-,

fent, into a rule to fhew caufe why the aa.ions (hould not be
removed by Gertiorariinto the Supreme Qotrt, as exclu-fivelj.
belonging to that jurifdi&ion. On ffhewing caxfe, it appeared,.
that fuits, in the nature of E"e&ments, had been inf.ituted in
the Circuit Court for the Di iri&c of Connea.icut, to recovcr .
"tra& of land, being part of the Connealicut Gore which that.
flate had granted to ndrew JJ/ardand Jeremiah aflae,, and
by Whom it had been conveyed to the Plaintiffs. The Defendants pleaded that they were inhabibtants of the State of
New-York ; that the premifes, for which the fuits were brought ,
lay in the County of Steuben, in the flate of New-York ; anid
that the Circuit Court for the D.ffri6t of New-York, or the
Courts of the State, and no other Court, could take cognizance
of the a&ions. The Plaintiffs replied, that the premifes lay in
the State of Connel7icut ; and, iffue being joined, a venire was.
awarded. On the return, however, the Defendants challenged
the array, becaufe the Marfhall of the Difria of, Conneoiscut,.
a refident and citizen ot that State, had arrayed the Jury by
his deputy, who was, al:o, a citizen of Conne'icut,and intereft-,
ed as a purchafer, or claimant, in the Connetficut Gore, under the fame title as the Plaintiffs. The Plaintiffs prayed oyer of
the record and return, averred that the deputy Marfhal. was.-.
not interefled in the queftion in iffue, and demurred to the.
challenge for being double, and contrary to the record, which does, •
not fhew that the Jury was returned by the deputy Marfhall. Th.Defendants joined in demurrer.

The Gdurt. over-ruled, the.

challenge, as it refpeaed the general intereft of the Marfhall
and his deputy, owing to their being citivens of Connefticut
.ut allowed it and qualhed the array, on account of the par-.

rtiCtf. r

i79).,

