SUPREMn Ct-URT of

P;nnfylvania..

'49,

volved in the prefent motion, But, on confideration, it is evi- .1799:
dent, that the Conftitution refers to informations, as a form of 1 s'
profecution, to punifh an offender, without the intervention of
agrand jury; whereas an information, in the nature of a writ of
quo warranto, is applied to the mere purpofes of trying a civil
right and oufting the wrongful poffeffor of an office*.
Since, therefore, there is fome evidence (however flight) of
improper condud, we' do not think, that it would be right to
refufean opportunity for ajury(who are the legal judges oftheweight of evidence) to determine, whether it is fufficient to
vitiate 'the Defendant's appointment of County Tre~furer.
And, at the fame time, the points of law, that have been fuggefted, may be maturely confidered and decided,
The rule made abfolutet,

MURGATROYD vrfus CRAWFORD.

T

HIS was an aftion againft an Underwriter on a Policy

of Infurance upon the fhip Mkiount Vernon, warranted to
be American property. The fhip was captured by a French

Privateer, carried into Porto Rico, and there condemned as
prize. The caufo was tried at the prefent Term ; and SHIPPi'N, Jq_/ice, delivered the following charge, in which all the
material facts and arguments were, fubltantially, fet fortht.
SHIPPEN, Juflice. On this Policy, the affured has engaged to prove in any Court of Pennfylvania, that the-Mount
Vernon was American property ; and it is, alfo, incumbent on
-him to prove, that the ihip failed upon the voyagve infured ; that
fhe has been captured, and condemned. On the queftion of
-property, the American Regifter was produced, which contains
the
'.ee 3 BI. CIM. 263.
t For the laws relating [o County Treafurers, which .were cited in the
courfe of the argumenit, See Dail. Edit. I Vl.- 2. 807.
Vol. 44
3 Vo. 750.
The Cmue
by i idifpofiiiwi,

Jvs'rice, who had prefided at the opening, was obligcd,
to 4c .0afcnt during the reft) of the trit 1.

.92

5799.
L

CASES ruled and adjudged in the
the oath of the Plain if, an American Citizen; that he was
the fole owner of the Mount [ernon ; and on the other points,
there is full proof of the failing, capture, and condemnation of
the fhip. She is not, however, condemned by the final decree
as Britifh property ; nor, indeed, are any of the five caufes affigned in the proceeings, legitimate caufes of condemnation.
The Plaintiff was difpofed, on general principles, to leave
his caufe on this evidence ; but, in order to repel the Defendant's allegation, that the prop.crty of the Phip, though appa'ently American, was, in reality, Britifh, a vrietv of fads
have been adduced, to explain the nature of a tranfa(ioin, whichv
occurred between him and 'Mr.Dunkerfon, in relation to a
6ale and transfer of the Mount Vernon. The refult feems,
briefly, to be this: Alr. Dunkefon was un Englifh gentleman,
who came hither with a view to-fettle ; and, 'inorder to manifeft his* intention, took an oath of allegiance to the ftate of
Pennzfylauia, though he had not been long enough in the
country to exititle himfelf to naturalization, under the ad of
Cong refs. Contemplating a circuitoui voyage from America
to England and thence to the Eal? Indies, he applied to Meffrs.
if/illings & Francis to procure a fhip for him ; and thofegentlemen agreed abfolutely with the Plaintiff for the purchafe
of the Mount. Pernon, the bill of fale being made out by him,
and fent to them, upon ter isof paynent precifly afcertained.
,tthen, however, occurred to Mr. Dunkerfon, that as he had
not yet acquired the rights 6f American citizenfhip, he could
inot enjoy the advantages, which he propofed to derive from his
projeded voyage.. For, the frade from England to the Eal
Jndies is, by the law of that.kingdom, a monopoly ; no Britib
fibje6t can; individually, embark in it, without incurring a forf'iture of his veffel and cargoe :.though, it has recently been
adjudged in England, -that an American citizen is entitled to
carry on the trade, by virtue of exprefs ftipulatiins in the treaty
of amity and commerce between the United $tates and Gre,4t
Britain. Hence, it was deemed neceflary,"to enter. upon .
another operation- the 'bill of fale w 5'fent back ; and a hew
contrad was formcd between the parties upon thef 5rinci-ples:
that the Plaintiff fhould renrain the owner of the fhip, and as
ftuch retain the regiffer, and' make the infurance ; that (he
fhould, however, be delivered to Mr. Dunkelnt, or his agents,
and that Meffrs. lWillings & Francis lo'uld 'procure a'freighit
for her on Mr. Dunkerfon's account ; that the Plaintiff ihould
empower Mr. Skirrow (a gentleman who failed as a paffinger
in her) to affign, and transfer the fhip to Mr. Dunkerfon in
England,on the iftof September eifuing, at which time Mr,
.unkerfon would be duly naturalized as an American Citizen

SUPREPMS COURT of Pennfylvania,

493

and that the confideration money fhould be fecured by the

T799"
notes of Meffrs. W4illing & Francis,payable, at all evehits, in %.s"v't-J
certain inflalments.
The effential point in this agreement
-was, obvioufly, therefore, that the property fhould remain the
Plaintiff's, until the day fixed for the transfer in Europe.; and,
accordingly, the Regifter was continued in his name, and the
prefent infurance was effecled by him, as owner of the fhip.
On thefe fa-ts fome important queftions arife. It is true,
.that the firfi bill of fale was cancelled and done away ; but the
Defendant urges, that there were many fubfequent ae-s of the
parties, which fhew an abfolute change of property, under the
fecond agreement ; particularly, as the fhip was delivered to
Mr. Dunkerfon, to be loaded for his ufe ; and the confideration
money was payable at all events. A fair and legal cont'raf
Thould, however) be carried into effz&, according to its true intentiQn ; and, whether the form of proceeding is, or is not,
ftridly corredt, there can be no doubt, that the true intention
of this contra(t was, to continue the property of the fhip in
the Plaintiff for a fp.ecified period. If an immediate fale had
been contemplbted, the contra&, payment of the price, and delivery of the fhip, would, unqueflionably, be fufficient to diveil th@ property of the original owner, and vel: it in the purchA for ; but if -the parties could legally contra~t, not for a prefent falc and trans'fer, but for a fale and transfer at a future day,
under a Po'w er of Attorney, to be given for the purpofe; and if
fuch is the nature of the prefent contrat, then the paymcnt and
delivery nut have relation to the terms and conditions on
which they were made ; and of which the molt important was,
that the Plaintiff fhould continue the owner of the fhip, until
the ill of September.
The only obje~ts ior. enquiry, then, are ill. .Vh~ther the
contract wasa fair one; and 2d. Whether it wasa lawful one.
That it was a fair contra&k has not been denied : But, it has
been contended, to be an illegal contra&i violating the pofitive
provifions of an Ad of Congrefs; as well as militating againil
the duties of a neutral nation, by affording a ready cover to the
property of a belligerent power. - The Regifteriing Ad is expreffed in fuch firong terms, that when it was firil read, we
thought it decifive upon the cafe ; for, it feemed generally to
require, an oath, "that there is no fubjed, or citizen, of any
Sorei
prince or flate, direStly, or indireftly, by way of
truft, confldence, or otherwife, interefted iii the thip, or vef" fel, or in the profits, or iflues thereof."
I Vl. p. r34. fi
4. Swift's Edit. But, upon examining the Ad, we found,
that this oath was only exa~ted, "where an owner-refides in a
' foreign country, in the capacity of a conful of the United
"

Sta.te,,

14.
1799.

CAsEs ruled and adjudged in the
f4 States, or as an agent for, and a partner in, a houfe, or cd"
C partnerfhip, confiffing of citizens of the United States."

1bid. 'he, terms of the provifion do not, therefore, embrace
,the prefent cafe, the cafe of an 4inerican citizen, refiding and
regiftering his veffel in an American port; and. its policy may.
reafonably be confined to dmericns refident abroad, who are
fo much expofed to the temptation of covering belligerent pro0
perty, and fo ljitle expofed to the 4angers of detection*.
Confidering all the circumfances, therefore, it does not appear to us, that there was an actual fale; and, if a future fale was only intended, we have no: right to contradid, or modify,
the contra& of the parties. But while this opinion is expref
'fed, it cannot be denied, that there are-ifrong fads in fupport
of the defence, Mr. Dunkerfon would have been the abfolute,
unqualified, owner of the fhip, under the firft bill of fale; and
even under the fubfequent agreement, he obtained poffieffion of
her, loaded her, received the freight, and exercifed other ads of
fsperintendance and ownerflhip, Though the Plaintiff effeded the infurance, he was reimburfed the premium ; and though
he iffiued the failing orders to the captain, it is (aid to have been
done at the inflance of Mr. Dunkerfon. On the, ieight of thefe
fads, therefore, the jury tnuf decide: And if, after EI], you
Thould think, that there was ;4P adtual and immediate fale to
ir. Dunkerfan, an alien, there muft be a verdi& for t6e Defendant, notwitbftanding the regifter and oath of the Plaintiff;
which are prima fakie, but not conclufive, evidence of thq
American property of the (hip.
But another queftion -has been agitated in the caufe, which
is entitled to confideration. It was infifted, that an under,
Writer is difcharged from the obligations of the policy, if any
'thint, material to the rifque is not difclofed to him at the time
of effedting the infurance. Though there was an attempt to.
encounter this pofition, by evidence of the general notoriety of
the
• The Judge did not exprefsly refer in his charge to another fedtion of,
the Regiftering.A~ft, which was cited by the Defendant's Counfel, as
proof that the veffel was forfeittdif the fale was an aLifolute one. The,
words of tle feftion are: 11That if aty fhip or vcffel, heretofore regif" tered, or which (hall hereafter be regiftered, as a (hip or veffel of the
"1 United States, fhall be fold or transferrd, in whole or in part, by-way
'."
oftruft, confidence, or otherwife, to a fubjeftorcitizen, of any foreign
c Prince, or State, and fuch fale or transfer (hall not be made known, im
1,manner herein before dire.'Yed, fuch aiip or veffel, together with her tackle,
"' apparel, and furniture, ihal be forfeited." 2 Vol. P. 148. f. 16. Swift's
.Edit. I prfume, the Judge, having adopted the reafoning of the Plain,
tiff's Counfel, 'that there was no adtual and immediate fale and transfer
of the Mount Vernon, or, in other, words, that the contra&i was executory,
not exc'cuted, did not think the feffion applieable to the prefent cafe.
For the m:nner of making known the fale and tansfer hrie alluded to
fce f1,1. 7. P. 137.

SUPkLEmrE COUVtT of Phnfy1Vantia'.

_49S.

1799,
the contra& between the Plaintiff and Mr. Dunkerfon yet that
circumitance is too vague to be conftrued into noti e either %o-yri
to the Defendant, or the Infurance Broker Notice ilhowever,
is a matter of fa" ; but whether notice is neceffary, is partly
a matter of fa6&, and partly a matter of law. Now the Plaintiff warranted the fhip to be an American bottot , which of
itfelf fuperfeded, in our opinion, the neceffity of making any
communication on the fubjed of the property. But, fill, if,
in the opinion of the Jury, a knowledge of the circumftances
that were fuppreffed, would have induced the infurer to demand
a higher premium, or to refufe altogether to underwrite, it will
be fufficient, on commercial principles, to invalidate the policy. A refpectable x~itnefs (an underwriter) has declared,
however, that a difclofure of thefe circum(tances would not
have prevented his underwriting the rifque at the fame premium.
If, upon. the vhole, the contraCt was a fair one, with a
view to a lawful purpofe, a voyage to India; and not with a
view to aid one Belligerent power at the expence of another,
by a fradulent cover of property (which would certainly be fatalto the Plaintiff's demand) we think that the fhip remained
an American bottom, at the time of the capture and condemnation; and, therefore, that the verdi& fhould be in favor of
the Plaintiff.
But if there was an acqual and immediate fale of the fhip to
Mr. Dunkerfon; or if there was any concealment which ought
to invalidate the policy; we think the verdia fliould be in faVor of the Defendant.
Verdicq for the Plaintiff.

1% E C Y.B I LT,

