Su.PREME COURT of the United States.

give the land to the Plaintiffor Defendant; but could have no
controuling influence over the line of jurifdiion ;'with refpe& to Which, if either State has.a conteft with. the other, or
with individuals, the State has its rnemedy, I fuppofe, under the
conflitution and the laws, by proper application, but not in this
way; for fle i* not a party to the fuits.
If an individual will put the event of his caufe'in a plea of
this kind, on a fa&, which is not cffential to his right ; I cannot think, it can prejudice the right of jurifdidion.appertaining to a State.
I agree with the reff of the Court, that neither of the motions can be granted,
BY THE COURT: Let the rule be difcharged.

CLARKE

verfus

RuSSEL.'

N Error from the Circuit Court, for theDiftrid of RhodeIj7and. On the return of the Record, it appeared that a
declaration, containing the following Count, had been filed in
an adion brought by " Nathaniel Rujel of Charj/eon, in the
Diftrit of South-Carolina, merch ant and citizen of the State
of South.Carolina, againift obn Innes Clarke of Providence,
in the County of Providence and Diftrid of Rhode-Iland,
merchant and citizen of the State of Rhode-lfiand,and furviving partner of the company of Jofeph Nightingale, now
deceafed, and the faid 7on Innes Clarke, heretofore doing bufinefs under the firm of Clarke and Nightingale,"
Ift Count. " That the faid qohn Innes Clarke and Jofepb
' Nightingale,then in full life, on the xoth day of March t796,
"
t the Diftri& of Rhode-Itqg.nd, in confideration that the
" Plaintiff' would at the fpecial inftance and reue4i
of the
c faid Jo/eph and John Innes, indorfe feven feveral fetts of
cc bills of Exchange; of the daitei tenor, ind defcription as fet
" forth in the annexed fehedule, drawn by a certain Yonathan
" Ruf el, who was agent and partner in that particular of
" the company of Robert Murray and company, of New-.
"-1ork,
in the Diftri- of New-Tyrk, on themfelves .affumpd,
" and to the Plaintiff faithfully, promifed, that if the faid bills
Ihould not be paid by the perfon on whom the fame were
" drawn, and the Plaintiff,, in confequence of fuch endorfement (hould be obliged to pay. the fame bills, with damages,
cofts, and intereft thtreon, they the faid Jo/eph and John
U Inner would well and truly.pay to the Plaintiff the amount
c of the faid bills, damages, and cofts, and intereft, if the Draw-

I

1799.

416
T799"

CA^s~s

ruled 'and adjudged in the

" er of raid bills did not pay the fame to the faid PlahtiW.
" And the faid Plaintift in fad faith that in C'onfideration of,
" and truffing to, the faid affumption and promifehe did indorfe
" the faid bills : and the faid Plaintiff further in fa& faith that

" the perfon, on whom the laid bills were drawn; did not ac, cept, or pay the aid bills, but that the faid bills were, in due
" form of laws prdtefted for non-payment; of which non-payment ahd proteft, notice was given in due forn of law to the"
" drawer thereof, and alfo to the Plaintiff, to wit, on the ixthi
day of September, 1796, at faid Diftri& of Rhode-Ifland, by
reaf6n whereof; in confequence of laid mndorfement, thf
, Plaintiff was obliged topay the faid bills with datiages, cofU
and interefc thereon, amoulting to £.47,4, 13, i. ftCerling
" money of Great Britain, equal in value to 20,338 dollars.
" and 5z cents, and actually did pay the fum of money laft
"mentioned, in difcharge of the fiid bills, before the corn" mencement of this fuit, to wit, onthe faid i 3 th day of Sep-'
i,tember, i796, at the Driftrit of Rhode-Iftand, aforefaid, of
cc which the drawer of .the aid bills, ori the day; and year, and
" at the Diftri& laft aforefaid had notice and the faid drawer
was then, and tiere euefted by. the PlaintifF to pav to
" him the furn of. money laft aforefaid; which he, the faid drawer, reftufed to do, Pf all which the laid J7feph and )ohn Innes;
wit, on the dak and year laft aforefaidi at the
" afteri~aids; io,
.
,iDiffri&I forefaid, hadnotice. .- everthikeks &..
,TheDeendant pleaded non ajjumpfit ; and thereupon iffue
waso' ied. On the trial the Jury found for he Plaintiff ort
thehfirf Count, with 22,839 dollars and Scents danages ; and
for the Defendant 0on all the other 'Countsji thd declaration:
On this v.erdi4 Judgment was rendered; but the Defendant.
having filed a.bill f exceptions, brought the prefent Writ of
Error." The bil of exceptions was founded on the followint
.
.1
reafons, which it et forth at large.' ,. , : .,
Itl. That upon the trial of the ifflue " the Counfel learned
in the law for the faid Nrathaniel Rufel tq maintain and
" pro ,e the faid iffue,. offered in evidence the aforefaid foreig
, bills of exchange, with protefs for non-tpayment, bu't with.
any, protefts for non-a&eptance of the fame, or of in
outthemn;"
iof

2d. That 'l the.laid Coun tel alfo contended, a6d infited'd he41fore the jury, that two letters of Clarke and Nigtingae'
direted to the Plaintiff, and dated January !oth, and Wift
1
,796,
did import an engagement, or promife by the Laid
L1arke & Nightizngale to the Plaintiff, that the faid,Robert
MA,,ri-a,)

SUPREME

COURT

of the United Staiesi

Murray & Qo..would fully comply with any contra&s or enthey; might iae with the Plaintiff.
3 d. That " the faid counfel alfo contended and. infiffed be'c before the Jury, that paroi ,tefimony is all'owialble b ' law to
(aid iwritten proniifei or engagement, expreffed in
i' explain
letters.
'

i' gagehient

tfaid

"But the'couhfel for the faid John Innis Chark, bef'ore faid
obje& agai'nft laid bills of exchange, as evidence in
"'outtdid
" faidcare, by reafon that the fameor any of them, did not ap.
"pear t *have,been protefted for tih-acceptarice: And did
k".infift'befote -the Jury, that the faid letters did not import any
" promife or.* engagement by the, laid Clerk & Nighiingale, to
C. the Plaintiff that, the raid Robert Murray & Co. would fully
"complyl witfi. any contrad- or engagements they might make
i' with the Plaintiff: And that the promifd or engagement, by
"cthe' Plaintiff attempted to be proved-to be made, by the (aid
" Clerk and Nightingle with the Plaintiff in the'faid letters;
"ought not to be explained by parol teftimony, which had paf"fed to thejury without objedion thereto by the fo2d counfel;
c they only objeing afterwards to its applicability to the faid
" written evidence of the faid promife in the faid leters.'
Who' tried the faid caufe*, did then and
". Aid 'the JUftic
"cthere deliver his opinion to the jury aforefaid, that faid
" foreign bills of exchange ought to be admnited arid pafs in e7
" vidence before the faid jury in faid cafe, without any proteft
cc for non-acceitan~ei And the fIid juftice did, alfo, declare
ic and deliver his opinion to the (aid jury, that the. faid letter$
c'of Clerk & Nightingale, direded to the plaintiff, and dated
c' the 2 th and zift days of January, 1796, did import an en"c gagement or promife by the faid Clerk & Nrightingile, to thd
Plaintiff, that the faid Rbert Murray & Co. would fully
Pc
comply with any contra& or engagements, they might enter
And the faid Juftice did then and
"c into with the Plaintiff:
" there declare that the faid written promife, by the.'Plaintiff
cc attempted to be proved with him by the faid Clerk & Night4' ingate, by laid letter of 26th and 2ift January, 1796, to
C have been made, might be explained by parol teftimony."
The letters, on Which the acion was foundedi were expref6
red in the following Words:
Ih h
4; Thke cauif'e was tried by 7udg, Cus'HiTc,,

Prooidince
ut the Diftri& JudgeBRoWt;

hl.ving been driginally of ioun rel foi tlie Defelndant did not lita

1799.
1

€AS

ruldf and idjifd'g~d iri, iWe

"'E)AT gIR,:

'fri-end9 Meffrs, R-be'rt MkIrray & Co. merchatits iii
having determined to enter largely into the
pu-chafe of rice and other articles of your produce in' Cha'rl'efton, but being entire firangers there, they have applied to us
for-letters of intfodu&iofto our friends. ItnLconfeqiidite of
which,- we do ouifelves the pleafure of introducing them to,
ytiur correfposndenfce, as a: houre, on whofe integrity and puncA
tuality the utmoft dependance may be placed. They will write
you the nature of their intentions, and yo.t may be affured of
their complying fully with any cbntrads or engigements they
may enter into with you. The friendfhip we have for thefe
gentlerrien induces us to wifh you will render them every fern
Yice in your power, at the fame time we flatter ourfelves this
coirefpondenct: will prove a mutual benefit.
('-NUR

.~JNew-lork,

We are, with Sentitriefits (f efteenrn
Dear gir,
You'r rhoft Obedieh'i S'ei'rit
CLERK & 'NIGHTINGALE;
Providence, 2111 7aVzan

y, i79.

NAY4HNIEL RUSSELL, Esqo
DEAR SIR-,
E wrote you yefterday a letter of recommendation in
favor of Meflirs, Robert Aurray, & Co. We have
pow to requeft that you will endeavour to render them
cvery affiftaice in your power Alfo that you will immediately on the receipt of this, vef the whole of what funds you
have of ours, in your hands, in rice, on the beft terms you
can., -If you are not in cafh, for the fales of china and naneens, perhaps you may be able to raife the money from the
baok till due, or purchafe the rice upon a credit till fuch time
as you are to be in cafrl for them. The truth is, we expef rice
will rife; and we want to improve the amount of what property
we

VV

"PRRM.

C9uT".of the.

United

States.

419

we can.mufler in.Charleflon, vefted ip that article at current
price. Our Mr. Nightingale is n-ow at Newport, whre'it is
probable we l41I write you on the fubjeC6t.

.17q9.

We are, &c.
CLERK I& NXIQ'HTINGALE.
't appered upon the record, th.at William M' Whaun, being
examined as a witnefs under a cotomiffion,' teftified, amon;
other things, that in a converfation with 7_feph Nihtnga
q,
the deceafed partner, after the bills of exchange' ,had been pro,tefted,7ofephNightingale declared to the deponent, that" there
' coul he no doubt but that the Defendants, "Cierkand N2ght.
" ingale, muff fee the Plaintiff, NathanielRuOffi,-fecred."
B ut
the Defendaat applied to put off the',caufe in the'Court bel.ow,
on account of the abfence of a material wifnefis,'and filed a
affidavit itating, that ' he believe
the witnefs would teftify,
y
" that he was prefent at the converfation mentioned in W. .ll
4,Whaun'sexamination, upon the,requeft of Nightingale : b~t
"nothing of the import fuggefted by AP Whaun the.n P4Tfed."
The Court declared, that the caufe fho ld be contine.ed on this
spplication, unlefs the Plaintiff agreed that the fa& alledged in
the Defendant's affidavit, (hould be..confidered upon tbe.trial as
proved, to every purpofe, which it could effe,, were the Witnefs prefent; and the agreement was accordingly entered int6,
The general errors being affigned, and iffue being joine'd on
the plea in nullo.efl erratum, the ca6fe was a'rgued by L'e, the
Attorney General, Howell (of Rhode-Iland) and Jngerfoll, for
the Plaintiff in error; and by E. Tilghihan, Dexter (of Vaqf,.a
chuftts). and Roibbins
the Defendant i1
.¢rroi.
..
.' (of Rhode-Ifland) for ""

For te Plaintff in error, the following points Were urged,
and fupported by the correfpondihg authorities :-=ft. :That the
"bills of exchange mentioned in, the declaration, wer-laid before
he Jury, without a proteft for non-acceptance,, or any proof
hat
$On opeiningthe cafe, Hmerfl.obrerved, -t-hatilt was. necefiary~he prie,,
fumed, to callon the J, dge, who prefidedat rbe-tyial, to acknowledge
bis feal 4ffixed to the bill of exceptions.
ELLSWORTH, Chief ,fuflie. The billofexceptions is part of the record,qnd comes up With. it. For that reafori, the acknpwledgment oftlhp
Judge's feal is unneceffary.
But if the bill of excepions had not berth
fssch an ackn.wledgment might
*acked to the record,
.....bvee he ,.. proben
jqBul/V ' 317, 3 0

-

4 .O

1799,

CAsEs

ruled and idjudged in the

that they were fo protefted.-t Lov. on Bill. 176. Bull. N. P..
273. I 7'. Rep. 67. Lov. 81. 3. Bac. 4!,r 613. 2 Gord. Uni,.
P. 270. Lov. 8-. 6.7. io Stat.' at Large
Aec. 363. Bull. "T
ii St. at L. io6. 5 Burr. 2671. 2"8. Mod. 8o. i Salk.
p.
131. Kid. 137. 140. 151. 2 T. Rep., 713.
2nd. That the Court below, gave it in charge to the Jury, that

the letters written by Clerk and Nightingale, amounted to a.
guarantee of any engagement, into which RobertMurray & Co.
might enter with ;he Plaintiff: wheieas the letters did not import fuch a guarantee ; there was no other written evidence of
it before the Jury ; and a collateral unde'rtaking to pay the debt
of another, 'muft be in wri ting agreeably to the Englifh Statute
of Frauds,' (9. Car. 2. c. 3.) which isin force in Rhode-Ifland.
Cowp. 227. For any miftake of a Judge, in his diretions or
decifions upon a trial, a bill* of exceptions may be tendered.
3 Bl. G.372. Reg. Bre. 282. 2 171. 287. Even before the ftatute of Frauds, if any' coxtrii& was mad in writing, the writing muft be produced; and its contents .oud iot b proved
by parol teffimony, on 'the general principle, that t.e beft evidence of which the Qafe is fufceptible, muf; be given, "Efp. 780.
i. But fince the ftatute, a prornife, like the one now alledged,
.
1. 2. 4 Bl Corn 43.
an only be madein writing. 3 .. 'oe,20. ....
The letters dQ not contain evidence of fulch, apromife. " Thei
are not in form, letters of credit,' which are a'(pecies' of bills
,
ot excia ge, are 'always confined to money ranfanIions; and
riepay
:to
invariably 'include a direa and p.6fitive u'ndert6kin
the money, which fha be advanced. 0eawes. L. M 447.8. -(

cob's L. D. "Letters of "credit." 4VIarivs 81. 2. And,'in fiibitance, the let'ters are nothing more than Ieiters of frieildjy''troduLqion.' The Court and not the Jury are to contrrue all
deeds and written Iitruments. I '. Rep. X72. If when an
declared of the folvency of their fri'ends, there had
opini.on i's
been ariy deception, an a&ion in the nature of deceit' wopld liv;

7'.Rep. 5.. Peake's,.

P.226.; but thereisnofuch impita-

tiori,

'

t

On flowe''s flating this point, the CHIEF

J3rTtci

remarke4, that it

%as proper to apprife th counfel, that indlc cafe of br6,in 'v. dart, ant.
36,. the fame qiteflton had hee'n agitteu an't decided" bu How//rcprethouglt there was a diftifniion between the cafe ;f.
fstnting, that he'
Prowi vs. Barry, here' the Indorfee lu'ed-lhe Drawe, ofa bill ; ind tlhe
prefent Afe, where the Indorfee fues te "lIdofe ; THE COUSLT declared
they weie 'wjilili.t'to hear the irgUmen't, though the'difinelion did noe
et ende av,;urrd to fupport 'the difHfwe it,
Itrike them as material.
be injured by the oon-acinetion, ,n the ground, that a Drawer may tror
cepta Ice as in the cafr o'fhis nor having alledis in the hoddsof the Dia'wee,
but that a lsdorfer could not be in that prdI
ament as a fecond 1ndor)
very Indorfer may refurt to the Drawe.
fer might refurt to the fiit, and'ei
EP~oi the noi-accentatcc
titie
Drawee.
Lov. on Bills.
176

SUPREME COURT of

the-United ,tates,

421

tlion here, and the words do not import a promife. v .in. Ahr.
1799.
261. I Roll. Abr. 6Noy. iI.z Com. Rep. 558. Cafre 237, Nor Q'v"
is there any equity againit the Plaintiff in error; for, the obli.
gation of a furety is always ft'6&y conftrued according to'the
letter ofhis engagement. 2 T ep. 266. 366. Yelv. 40. 1. Peake's
X P. 226. Efp. Rep. 29., Befides, notice ought to have
been given by Ruffel to Clerk and Nightingale, if he made
any advances on account of the letters; and the mere finding
of the affumpfit will not let in apretiumption that fuch a notice
was given.. Marius 85. Efp. 2,90. 442. The firft Count is a
fpecial Count, and mutt be proved as it is lai'd; Doug. 24. But
as thofe letters would apply as, well to any other fpeculation, as
to the indorfementof the bills of exchange, the fpecial Connt is
no notice of the contra& given in evidence. The Plaintiff
fhould have f'lated in the declaration all the inducements, fhould
have fet forth the letters, lhould have averred, that Rufel was
the agent of Clerk and Nightingale, and that in confideration
of their requeft, the bills had been indorfed. But the declaration does not even aver, that they ever made the requeft, in confideration of which the bills were indorfed. Doug. 659.
3 d. That the promife alledged to be made in the letters of
Clerk and Nightingale, ought not to have been explained by
.parol teftimony: for fuch teftimony is not admiffible to explain a
deed, or any written inftrument.* 2 BL. Rep. 1249. 1 Efp. 7 80. 1
AIf.
275. Ca. temp. Talb. 240. 3 T - Rep. 474. 6 1. Rep. 671.
Doug. 24.z Roll- Abr. 276. I ilk. 13. Pow. Cont. 277. 290.
New Annual Regifter 1795. Day vs. Barker et al. Pow. Cont.
6i8. Pow. Mort. 61. Pow. Cont. 431. 2 Atk"
373. 1 P.i
?in.
384. ir..Ch-9 o. Gilb, L. of E. 5. 6. 112. 3 Woodes. 327. 8.
i Br. Cb. 54. 934. 2 Bl Rep. 1249. 1250. I . Rep. i8o. i2.
Bull. N. P. 269. 28o. Yelv. 4o . 2 Fez. 56. 232.
For the Defendant in error,' it was anfwered,-Ift. That
there 'was no neceffity to produce, or to prove, a proteft for non.
acceptance of the bills of exchange. 3 Dall. Rep. 365, 34422nd. That even admitting the letters of Clerk & Nightinale
.,g
.r
On this point, I would wifh to fee any
ELLSWORTH, Chief Yuflice.
authorities that diftinguifl between folemn infiruments, and loofe comThere isfeemingly a aiftinfion in principle ;
mrerci.J memoranda.
though I do not recolle&f, that it is exprefsly recognized by any writer ott
the law.

I will, for inftance, flate this cafe; -A and B being at a whaif,

"the former fays to the latter, 'I will fell you my Lhip John." Bafks an
hour to think of the propofition; goes home; and Lhortly after fends a
ndte to A in thefe words-"1 Will take your fhip John:" May not the

party go beyond the note, to explain,by exifting circumftanees, the word
take, which, according to exiffing circumflances, will equally embrace
a purchafc, a charter-party, and a capture ? This exemplification will
ferve to convey my general idea; and it, evidently, includes many car-

ts of daijy occtrrcnce incommercial tranfadkiori.

C srs. rojed and adj udged in the
1799.

go/e to be part of the record (which however, was conteffed)
the decifion of tle court. belov. was rigIbt; for, on a juft con .

ftrufion of their contents, they import a promife, or guafan
me; and the terms of the letters,ought to be taken n.ofi ifrongly a'gainff the writer. i Bac. ,r. j68. 2 T.- Rep. 366.
3 d.

ted.

Thpt the parol evidence ;t the trial was properly admitThe bill of exceptns fates, that the evidence 'Affd' tio

the jury without exception, the counfel only objeaing, after-

wards, to its applicability.
Whe.re 9bje&ignable evidence is
given, and not objected to, but admitf.d by the Defendant's,
The applicacounfel, it is no ground f6r a biMl of exceptionF.
bility of the evidence to the letters, was a matter of fact for
the Jury, not the court, to deter.n, niwe; and on that point the
,court faid nothing, though they were of opinion, that the writ,

ten promife mighft be explained by" parol teftimony. What the
pear;does it appear. tbat thp
ror
teftirmny was, dpes not ap

Court
Ingerf]ll was proceeding, in the cour'e of ,hii argument, to remark
-upon the teftinony ofAI'Waugbl but was fopped by the CMI.F JISTICF,
-who referred it to the qourt todecide, -wiether thgt reftimopy could bF
,taken intp conlideration, .in t',difcuffion of te prefent biIl of excep.,
tions?
one hand,
yuflice.
It has been contended, op
WASHtINTON,
p
that .even the letters, which. are thiefoundation of theaeon 41o ntta
,p p~Art of the r~ecord; but, it hs been anrwered,' tiat'they are embraced
,by exprefs words of reference contained in the 61l of exceptions. I
•will not preclude myfelf, at thi3 !lage .ofthe argnment, from giving a
,further confideration to that paint-: but it-appears tp spe, thpt although
MI'Waagh's tsftimony might be 4eomed a :P r t of the record i yet, as it
is pot ftated, noreven referred to, in the bill of exceptions, we cannt
prefutie that it was the evidence objeced to ; ana, therefor', mudt qx.
elude it from tite p-efent difctf' it, which q.ifes qn the 3ill of excep:.'
tions.
PATF.$ON
ufpice. It -,%,as objected in the Cqurt beow, this parpl,
teftirrony had pafled to ktiejur , to explain the written contract, oa
nrhich the adion was founded ; .ano M'.Waugh's teftimony goes direaly
to that ppin t. Confderipg, thcrefegell the papers retirped Wvhh th wrif
of error,pas fortming a part of the record,I tdibk it qtu~ht to, be taken into
vie'w on tbe prefent occalon...
I do not-think -that in arg ging thisbill of exYep-,,
IREDEILV, yflice.
,tions, the depoition of M'Waugh ought to be regarded. ' The reference
to the le!ters of Clerk an4 ight~ngale, it fuflcienrtly irrea to rTnder
wb
'hen 'the bill of exceptions fpqak s of the
then? part of the record ;
does it anly
its impdt, ,noar5
parol tgp'imony, it Oioes n.1. ftte .vh'it
"svhcre appear, that tbe.depo istioij of M'Waugh w s tli ubj,eQ,9 f ob,
j e iott."
* CvsitiN,
ufiice. The clerk of the jnferior cort has certified ,the. record, and that it contains the whole of Uhe oceedings in the caufe, the
ons is tack.depofjtio n ofMl';argh mak.ing a part. The' l )l ofexce ip
,,d to the record;,anD, amptng other things, it contains an tbjeetiqt to tile
iadniffign of parol teftimony, in exp: 4 aion of tlse written .eontra&.
When, therefore,.we find that M'Waug'js tce1iimony is explanatory bf1lsg lettf.rs of Clcrk and NighktialC I a.m kfopitisan, that the rc-e.

Stu~liri C&Akt'
.1,ou'rf wds 6f

4i

of thet Jtiied~tdiei.

pifidn, that the Ofonfdi

ht be 6 plairied b6,

t:he p~1ro teftifno'fi fpecifidAlly, Whofe applikability the coun:

fet! denied, though the Juiry have fouid that it did apply: I
Salk. t3. Ball. A' P- 317. Where the 'parol'idftimoni Wd§
given, without'objetion, how coufd the court ititerfdte. I

inifft operate With, th6 jury, and the paity C6nfdrnted tdfa ii
fhould op'erite, by all'owing that ie'fliould- be'ddliveeed, tiith'x
Ot objeffiod. It dbs not appiear, inded,"-that the ftatute of
frau'dg was infifted; 6n; and-,,ceriainry, it is'Aot" n&effar' t6
flat A writtenl promife In th'ede l'raii.or,' i T. Refi. 4 5 fi

*Aall. IV. P. 2,79. " Joidi f58. Nor will tfieCourt Apply id
4
itttd t'6 the cdfe; if the p arty docs not. Pake iS. Bff
ieVen" Whete the ftatute hat been' pleaded, parol teftininy hag
been attenid'ed to, iin e~tplanation of ,rittehi' cotitrads. gk'in. r4i
.

36i. E/.p. p8.
Yedt.
;.

"theletters is c6rrd&c.

If, h6dWeei, th confhtu&ion" 6f

oh thVepart oY the tDetd'n'dlant in etfdr,

* 'iebare eclaaon 6f the Ctstrt beloW, that parof tefnit&
ight explgin theii, will not invalida his rigt ' recovery
and this Cort will ni6t reVerfe ajudg&dntrendetdd' trpdn conclufive evidence, appearin on fi e rcotd, thcfi irhpoper
evidence iiay afterwards have been ; dqittdd. The getieral
xule is, tlat parol effimoty' is adtiibie to* expfai'n, thou-gh
i6t to coiitradi', a Wiring.
coftfift'en~ed withl t Wifin

,

Thust, it has beefi adriiitted, in
fo fh&.Af 'a confideration 6ther

than
is fufficient to entitle the depofitioti t6 iii cofhfidered, idt decid'ing s'p6i!
tife Vill 6fe(xcep'tion.i
ELF. WORTH, Chief 7uflire.

Th'd whold of the record is exhibited in a
ioofe and imperfect c fate ; but I am clear, th at we ouglt not,'to travel
6ut otfthe b I of ei ptions to find niatteit td fuppodrt it. Tht letters olf
Clerk and N ightingale, though thi y ini jhf, tf6pe'rl , havd beii itrfet~t-.
ad more ai larg6, are fo'referred to bk" voids and plain intendm nt, that
we cifinot doubt their bein'g the fame, to which the bill of exceltions
wa s alpplied.
This is not th cdtc with ihie d pofitii' of M'Waugh. The bill of exa
edptionsdoe.s not exprefsly refer to that document ;'and though it fpeak§
generally of parol teftimony, there is nothing faidi that points move at
'Waugfis d'epofitiofithan at 6e tdffi iotidy of any other witniit, or
number ofWitneffes, U'antfined iip'oin t11. trafl.
- It is faid, that the deptifition of M'Waugk is a part of the redord : but
I do not. think it would be confidered fo, on principle, in Maflachnfetts ,
and it is too illufory. fnce all the parol ridim6ny is not annexd) to he
tefti.
There diay have b'devi other pdrol
long c6uitenanied in praetic.
; a'nd rliei'e
ihony to coutterat aid invalidate the tefinony .fM' Wadgh

fiuft, we perceive,, hav been pdrol tefFirnony on fome points of fa&
atlihg on the face of tie bijli ofexchange theinfelves. I ihbik, therefore,
that the depofifitn ofM('WaugA, otighi L6 ht 6xciiided from all confide-

ration, in af'uitig the hrtfnt ,bill of excdlitiong.
By -'efs Cousii. The depufii6n.ofMYaug is not to be regatded ii,
t~ie argumenit on the bill of exceptions.

. 99,
'

*

"'

024
1799.

CAsEs ruled

and adjudged in the.

than that, which the deed itfelf fexprefled; 3. T. Rep. 474-. f

Sexplain a certificate of a Pauper's fettlement; 1. 7'Rep. 6o9. 2.
Bi. Rep. i250. to (hew whether a cellar was comprehended
withina leafe; i. T. Rep. 701. to explain a Will; 2. Fez.
216. and to prove a miflake in an agreement I Fez. 456. It
has been admitted to (hew declarations at, and after, the writing; i Cha. Ca. i8o. I Dall. Rep. 193, .4,6. r Atk., 448.
2 Dall. Rep. 171. 173. 196. to afcertain a fa&'under a-Will ;
2Dall Rep. 70. to rebut an equity; to prove legacies augmen ed, not, repealed; i Bro. Cb. 448. 2. Br. Gh.. 521. to
prove the advancement of a fum of money to be an ademption
of a legacy; 2 'tk. 48:3 A'tk.. 77. 8. 2 Bro. Gh. 'i6-' 519
20. 2i. 2 Fez. 28: and to prove theintention of the father as
to the mode of education, on a devife of guardianfhip. 2 ez,
56. It is admitted in cafes of refulting trufts ; and conftaHtly
in mercantile contra&s. 2 Fez. 33I ' In fine, the ftaiute fpeaks;
not only of the contra& being in writing;,but of fome note or
memorandum of the contra&; and, theretore, any memoraidurn in w.riting of'the intent of the parties (fich as the .letters
in.queffion) will ferve to take the cafe out of the flatute.
The opinion of the Court, after fome days deliberation, .was
delivered by th6 Chief Jufice, in the following terms ,
ELLSWORTH, Chief 'uflice.. This:caufe comes u'jon A bill
of exceptions, on the face of which three exceptions appear.
i. F'irit, thatbills of exchange;which had been non-accepted,
and j.rotefled for non-payment, were admitted in evidence unaccompanied by protels for non-acceptance.
According to a general rule, laid down by this Codrt, in the.
cafe of Barry and Brown', from Virginia, and from which rule
there appear no fpecial circumifances to exempt the prefen'i
cafe, this excepti3n will not hold.
2. A further exception is, that the judge in his charge td
the Jury, held, that the two letters from the Defendants to the
Plaintiff below, of the 2oth and 21ff of January T796, which
were fet up to prove an undertaking, or guarrantee, might he
explained by parol telimony ; of which kind of teftimony fome
had paffed to the jury, without objeffign, but for what purpofe
does not now appear, as there were divers Counts fome of
which parol teflimony might have fupported.
The undertaking declared upon, in the County to which the
verdi& applies, being for the duty of anotherl it muflf to fave
it from the ftatute of frauds, and perjuries, be in writing, and
wholly fo. The two letters, therefore, which are relied upon
as the written agreement, cannot be added to, or varied, by pa-:
rol teftimony. Nor can they be fo far explained by parolteflimony, as to affed their import, with regard to the fuppofed
undertaking.;

SUPrEME COURT of the

Undertaking;

411

United Satd;

The charge then, of the Judge, that 11they

f7994,

rhight be expLained by parol teftimon ," expeefled as a general

"..

rule, and without any qualificatiosi or reflri6lions, was too
broad ; and rmay have mifled the jury. On this ground there'
muff be a reverfal.
3. It is, therefore, Unifneceffary t6 decide the remaining queftion-hethee the two letters didi of themfelves, import an
undertaking or guarrantee ? It may be proper to' figgeftj
however, that a majority of theCdutt, at prcfent, incline to
the opinion that they do not.0
Judgment reverfed, and a' efhire de iov- awarded4

SimS Lefe verfus

IRVINE.;

tRRoR f'ronm th'e Circiit Couirt for the PFennfy1Irania ifr6i.
Ar ejedment being inftituted in the infericr Court, by the Leffee of Sims vs.' Irvine, the Jury found a !"ecial verdi&, upon
Which judgment was rendered for the Plaintiff, by confrent, and
this writ of error was brought to fettle the title. The parts
6f the fpecial verdi& material to the points in controverfy were,
in fubffance, as follows.'
PLAiNTiFF's TITLE.

' The jury find that the prefihifes in difpute was called Montour's Ifland, fituated in the river Ohio, on the fout'h-eaft fide,
within the original limits of the Virginia charter, granted in

.i6o9, and within the limits of the territorial diftri& in difpute
between Virginia and' PennfylVaniai for feVtera years prior to
the !i3d. of Sept. i786, when thofe flatesentered , info the following cdnpaa relative to their boundaries i as it is infertedin
the Journals of the general Afflembly of Pennfylvania ; and af-,
terwards ratified by a law paffed the Iff. of April, 1784. . vol.
P. 207, Dallas's Edit.

"Refolved, That althhdugh the conditions annexed by the
Jegiflature of Airginid, to the ratification of the boundary line
agreed to by the cotnmiffioners of Pennfy1va'nia and Virginiai
on the thirty-firff day of Aiguft, 1779, may tend to countenance fome unwarrantable claims, which rniay be made Under

the flate of Jirginia, in confequence of pretehded piitchafesi ore
fettleiefits pending the t6ntroierfy, yet this flatei detetmn'ing t6 giYe to th World the moft uineciivocal proof oftheirde-'
fire to promote peae and har'nony with a fiffei flats; fo neceffary during this, gteat conteff agairnif. the commnon,.enemy, dOagree to the conditions propofcd by the hate of. Jirginia, in
their refolves of the .23 d of June lafl to witi .
That

Iii-

"I have underfiood ti iat the
'*ere for rhe affirmative; aind
IoN,

Cai r- J bST CF, and C':r a IN
IRErELL,

7uhlres, were for the negativ,

tvwei

PA'rzersbr6,
e

and

/e

WASHJN

ihird queftien

,J.

t

