CIRCUIT COURT Pennfylvania DISTRICT.

1799.

TIE UNITIp STATES verfus THE INSUR'GENTS

of Pennfylvaija.

S EVERAL irdi6ments were found again'ft perfons Char~ed'
with High Treafon, by levying War againft the United
Siates, in the counties of Northampton and "Backs,in the flate
of Pennfylvania ; and the prifoners having pleaded "Not Guilty," Lewis and Ddllas, their counfel, filed, a'fuggeftion, that
ill
the offences were charged to have been committed either in
trial of each indi&in Northampton or Bucks, and moved for ai
ment in the proper county, on the provi'fion contained in the
2
9 th fetion of th' Judicial a&: (1 Vol. p. 67 8wift's edit.)
,.That in cafes punifhaible, with death, the trial (hall be had in'
" the county where the offence ,Aas committed, or where that
P' cannot be done without great inconvenience, twelve petit jui-rors at leaft (hall be fummoned from thence." The motioti
was oppofed by Rawle, (the Attorney of the diffr-ia) and Sitgreaves, And, after argument, THE CouRT delivered an'
opinion to the following effe6 :
BY THE COURT. The mere circumffance Of delay, in
trials of fo much expe&ation ajnd importance. though entitled,
4o f6me confideration, would not be fufficient of itfelf to prevent a compliance with the prefent application: And, we think,
that the r2th felionof the Judicial a& ought to be fo coniftrued,
as to veft in the Judges a power of holding a fpecial Court, in
the proper County, if in other refpeas they do not deem it
of Cong-efs, paffed the 2nd of
greatly inconvenient. The a6-t
M41[arch 1793, (2 FOL. p. 226, f 3. Sw~ft's edit.) empowers the
Judges to" dire& a fpecial feffions of the Circuit Court to be
" holden for the trial of criminal cafes, at any convenient place
nearer to the place where the offences
" within the DiftriL',
" may be f,!id to be committed, than the place, or places, appointed by law for the ordinary fefons ;" but this provifion
does not exprefsly difcriminate between caCs of a capital, and
of an inferior, nature; and a provifion having been Irevioully
made for capital cafes, it would be jullii..t e to apply this to
inferior
U 1 u
VOL Iii.

CASEs

7799.

ruled and adjudged in the

inferior cafes. At all events, any criticifm upon the word nearer (confidering the whole State as a Diftri&l, or County, in relation to the United States) would not prevent our appointing
a fpecil Court in the proper county, if fuch an apointment
was, otherwife, eligible.
''he truth is, that the a6t gives to the Court a legal difcretion upon the fubjet. A trial in the proper County might
have been ordered, when the offences were committed; but
no candid man will fay, that, at that time, fuch an order
would'have been juftifiable. The nect feep, therefore, was to
bind the offenders over to this Court, having complete jurifdiction of the cafe; and, now, the only queftions are, whether it
is praaicable to refer the trials to the counties, refpe&ively, in
which the offences were committed ? And, ifpraaicable, whether it can be done without great inconvenience ?
On the queftion of pra&icability, two difficulties occur:
lift. Whether the indi&mnents found at this Cout t,'can be tranfferred to a fpecial -Court?* And 2d. Whether the motion is
not too late ; for, as " the indi6tment ought tb beconfidered as
- infeparably incident to the trial, and in truth a part of it".
(Fo. C. L. 235. 9.) can the trial be commenced here, and b5
terminated .elfewhere ? _ ..
.
. ..: I
.
But even- if it were praaicable, on legal principles, to dire& a fpecial Court, can it be thought convenient or fafe, in
the prefentftate of Northampton and Bucks counties, to do fo ?;
It is evident, that nothing but an,armed-force has recently been
fufficient to quell the infurre&ion, and to arreft the infurgents ;
and,-we hope, that it will never be expeded frori the exercife,
of a judicial difcretion, that a Court of juftice ihall be voluntarily placed in a fituation, where the execution of its fun&ionsi
and the maintainance of its authority, mnuft depend on the famne
military auxiliary.
. Upon both grounds, however, we think the motion ought to
be rejeaed.
MOT-ION R FursD
* 3 Dall. R ep. 17- 8. was cited on this point.

