OCTOBER TERM, 1996

Syllabus

WARNER-JENKINSON CO., INC. v. HILTON DAVIS
CHEMICAL CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FEDERAL CIRCUIT
No. 95-728. Argued October 15, 1996-Decided March 3, 1997
Petitioner and respondent both manufacture dyes from which impurities
must be removed. Respondent's "'746 patent," which issued in 1985,
discloses an improved purification process involving the "ultrafiltration"
of dye through a porous membrane at pH levels between 6.0 and 9.0.
The inventors so limited their claim's pH element during patent prosecution after the patent examiner objected because of a perceived overlap
with the earlier "Booth" patent, which disclosed an ultrafiltration process operating at a pH above 9.0. In 1986, petitioner developed its own
ultrafiltration process, which operated at a pH level of 5.0. Respondent
sued for infringement of the '746 patent, relying solely on the "doctrine
of equivalents," under which a product or process that does not literally
infringe upon the express terms of a patent claim may nonetheless be
found to infringe if there is "equivalence" between the elements of the
accused product or process and the claimed elements of the patented
invention. GraverTank & Mfg. Co. v. Linde Air ProductsCo., 339 U. S.
605, 609. Over petitioner's objections that this is an equitable doctrine
and is to be applied by the court, the equivalence issue was included
among those sent to the jury, which found, inter alia, that petitioner
infringed upon the '746 patent. The District Court, among its rulings,
entered a permanent injunction against petitioner. The en banc Federal Circuit affirmed, holding that the doctrine of equivalents continues
to exist, that the question of equivalence is for the jury to decide, and
that the jury had substantial evidence from which to conclude that petitioner's process was not substantially different from the process disclosed in the '746 patent.
Hel&
1. The Court adheres to the doctrine of equivalents. Pp. 24-30.
(a) In Graver Tank, supra, at 609, the Court, inter alia, described
some of the considerations that go into applying the doctrine, such as
the patent's context, the prior art, and the particular circumstances of
the case, including the purpose for which an ingredient is used in the
patent, the qualities it has when combined with the other ingredients,
the function it is intended to perform, and whether persons reasonably

18

WARNER-JENKINSON CO. v. HILTON DAVIS
CHEMICAL CO.
Syllabus

skilled in the art would have known of the interchangeability of an
ingredient not contained in the patent with one that was. Pp. 24-25.
(b) This Court rejects petitioner's primary argument, that the doctrine of equivalents, as set out in Graver Tank in 1950, is inconsistent
with, and thus did not survive, particular aspects of Congress' 1952 revision of the Patent Act, 35 U. S. C. § 100 et seq. Petitioner's first three
arguments in this regard-that the doctrine (1) is inconsistent with
§112's requirement that a patentee specifically "claim" the covered invention, (2) circumvents the patent reissue process under §§251-252,
and (3)is inconsistent with the primacy of the Patent and Trademark
Office (PTO) in setting a patent's scope-were made in Graver Tank,
supra, at 613-615, and n. 3,in the context of the 1870 Patent Act, and
failed to command a majority. The 1952 Act is not materially different
from the 1870 Act with regard to these matters. Also unpersuasive is
petitioner's fourth argument, that the doctrine of equivalents was implicitly rejected as a general matter by Congress' specific and limited
inclusion of it in § 112, 6. This new provision was enacted as a targeted cure in response to Halliburton Oil Well Cementing Co. v.
Walker, 329 U. S.1, 8, and thereby to allow so-called "means" claims
describing an element of an invention by the result accomplished or the
function served. Moreover, the statutory reference to "equivalents"
appears to be no more than a prophylactic against potential side effects
of that cure, i. e., an attempt to limit the application of the broad literal
language of "means" claims to those means that are "equivalent" to the
actual means shown in the patent specification. Pp. 25-28.
(e) The determination of equivalence should be applied as an objective inquiry on an element-by-element basis. The Court is concerned
that the doctrine, as it has come to be broadly applied since Graver
Tank, conflicts with the Court's numerous holdings that a patent may
not be enlarged beyond the scope of its claims. The way to reconcile
the two lines of authority is to apply the doctrine to each of the individual elements of a claim, rather than to the accused product or process
as a whole. Doing so will preserve some meaning for each of a claim's
elements, all of which are deemed material to defining the invention's
scope. So long as the doctrine does not encroach beyond these limits,
or beyond related limits discussed in the Court's opinion, infra,at 80-34,
39, n. 8, and 39-40, it will not vitiate the central functions of patent
claims to define the invention and to notify the public of the patent's
scope. Pp. 28-80.
(d) Petitioner is correct that Graver Tank did not supersede the
well-established limitation on the doctrine of equivalents known as
"prosecution history estoppel," whereby a surrender of subject matter
during patent prosecution may preclude recapturing any part of that

Cite as: 520 U. S. 17 (1997)
Syllabus
subject matter, even if it is equivalent to the matter expressly claimed.
But petitioner reaches too far in arguing that any such surrender establishes a bright line beyond which no equivalents may be claimed, and
that the reason for an amendment during patent prosecution is therefore
irrelevant to any subsequent estoppel. There are a variety of reasons
why the PTO may request a change in claim language, and if the patent
holder demonstrates that an amendment had a purpose unrelated to
patentability, a court must consider that purpose in order to decide
whether an estoppel is precluded. Where the patent holder is unable
to establish such a purpose, the court should presume that the purpose
behind the required amendment is such that prosecution history estoppel would apply. Here, it is undisputed that the upper limit of 9.0 pH
was added to the '746 patent in order to distinguish the Booth patent,
but the record before this Court does not reveal the reason for adding
the lower 6.0 pH limit. It is therefore impossible to tell whether the
latter reason could properly avoid an estoppel. Pp. 30-34.
(e) The Court rejects petitioner's argument that Graver Tank requires judicial exploration of the intent of the alleged infringer or a
case's other equities before allowing application of the doctrine of equivalents. Although Graver Tank certainly leaves room for the inclusion
of intent-based elements in the doctrine, the Court does not read the
case as requiring proof of intent. The better view, and the one consistent with Graver Tank's predecessors, see, e. g., Winans v. Denmead, 15
How. 330, 343, and the objective approach to infringement, is that intent
plays no role in the doctrine's application. Pp. 34-36.
(f) The Court also rejects petitioner's proposal that in order to minimize conflict with the notice function of patent claims, the doctrine of
equivalents should be limited to equivalents that are disclosed within
the patent itself. Insofar as the question under the doctrine is whether
an accused element is equivalent to a claimed element, the proper time
for evaluating equivalency-and knowledge of interchangeability between elements-is at the time of infringement, not at the time the
patent was issued. P. 37.
(g) The Court declines to consider whether application of the doctrine of equivalents is a task for the judge or for the jury, since resolution of that question is not necessary to answer the question here
presented. Pp. 37-39.
(h) In the Court's view, the particular linguistic framework used to
determine "equivalence," whether the so-called "triple identity" test
or the "insubstantial differences" test, is less important than whether
the test is probative of the essential inquiry: Does the accused product
or process contain elements identical or equivalent to each claimed
element of the patented invention? Different linguistic frameworks

20

WARNER-JENKINSON CO. v. HILTON DAVIS
CHEMICAL CO.
Syllabus

may be more suitable to different cases, depending on their particular
facts. The Court leaves it to the Federal Circuit's sound judgment
in this area of its special expertise to refine the formulation of the test
for equivalence in the orderly course of case-by-case determinations.
Pp. 39-40.
2. Because the Federal Circuit did not consider all of the requirements of the doctrine of equivalents as described by the Court in this
case, particularly as related to prosecution history estoppel and the
preservation of some meaning for each element in a claim, further proceedings are necessary. Pp. 40-41.
62 F. 3d 1512, reversed and remanded.
THOiMiAS, J.,
delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court. GINSBURG,
J.,filed a concurring opinion, in which KENNEDY, J., joined, post, p. 41.

Richard G. Taranto argued the cause for petitioner. With
him on the briefs were H. Bartow Farr III and J. Robert
Chambers.
Deputy Solicitor General Wallace argued the cause for
the United States as amicus curiae. With him on the brief
were Solicitor General Days, Assistant Attorney General
Bingaman, Cornelia T L. Pillard, Nancy J. Linck, and
Albin F. Drost.
David E. Schmit argued the cause and filed a brief for
respondent.*
*Briefs of amici curiaeurging reversal were filed for Gateway Technologies, Inc., by Richard GrantLyon; for GHZ Equipment Co. by Ronald D.
Maines and Richard G. Wilkins; for the Information Technology Industry
Council et al. by Joel M. Freed, JerroldJ Ganzfried, John F. Cooney, and
William D. Coston; for the Intellectual Property Owners by Carter G.
Phillips, Mark E. Haddad,and Joseph R. Guerra;for MCI Telecommunications Corp. by Paul M. Smith and No-ry Miller; for Micron Separations,
Inc., by Steven M. Bauer and John J Cotter; and for Seagate Technology,
Inc., et al. by Carrie L. Walthour, Karl A Limbach, Deborah BaileyWells, and Edward P. Heller III.
Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the Biotechnology Industry Organization by Charles E. Ludlam; for Chiron Corp. by
Donald S. Chisum; for the Dallas-Fort Worth Intellectual Property Law
Association by Lawrence J Bassuk; for Litton Systems, Inc., by Laurence

Cite as: 520 U. S. 17 (1997)

Opinion of the Court

THOMAS delivered the opinion of the Court.
Nearly 50 years ago, this Court in Graver Tank & Mfg.
Co. v. Linde Air Products Co., 339 U. S. 605 (1950), set out
the modern contours of what is known in patent law as the
"doctrine of equivalents." Under this doctrine, a product or
process that does not literally infringe upon the express
terms of a patent claim may nonetheless be found to infringe
if there is "equivalence" between the elements of the accused
product or process and the claimed elements of the patented
invention. Id., at 609. Petitioner, which was found to have
infringed upon respondent's patent under the doctrine of
equivalents, invites us to speak the death of that doctrine.
We decline that invitation. The significant disagreement
within the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit concerning the application of Graver Tank suggests, however, that
the doctrine is not free from confusion. We therefore will
endeavor to clarify the proper scope of the doctrine.
JUSTICE

The essential facts of this case are few. Petitioner
Warner-Jenkinson Co. and respondent Hilton Davis Chemical Co. manufacture dyes. Impurities in those dyes must
be removed. Hilton Davis holds United States Patent No.
4,560,746 ('746 patent), which discloses an improved purification process involving "ultrafiltration." The '746 process
filters impure dye through a porous membrane at certain
H. Tribe and JonathanS. Massey; and for the Ohio State Bar Association
by Eugene P. Whetzel and Albert L. Bell.
Briefs of amici curiaewere filed for the American Automobile Manufacturers Association by D. Dennis Allegretti, Phillip D. Brady, and Andrew

D. Koblenz; for the American Intellectual Property Law Association by
Robert J Baechtold, StevaA J Bosses, Nicholas M. Cannella, Charles L.
Gholz, and Roger W. Parkhurst;for the Chemical Manufacturers Associa-

tion by Robert A. Armitage and Michael R Walls; and for the Licensing
Executive Society (U. S. A. and Canada), Inc., by Gayle Parkerand James
W. Gould.

22

WARNER-JENKINSON CO. v. HILTON DAVIS
CHEMICAL CO.
Opinion of the Court

pressures and pH levels,' resulting in a high purity dye
product.
The '746 patent issued in 1985. As relevant to this case,
the patent claims as its invention an improvement in the ultrafiltration process as follows:
"In a process for the purification of a dye ... the improvement which comprises: subjecting an aqueous solution.., to ultrafiltration through a membrane having a
nominal pore diameter of 5-15 Angstroms under a hydrostatic pressure of approximately 200 to 400 p.s.i.g.,
at a pHfrom approximately 6.0 to 9.0, to thereby cause
separation of said impurities from said dye ....
" App.
36-37 (emphasis added).
The inventors added the phrase "at a pH from approximately
6.0 to 9.0" during patent prosecution. At a minimum, this
phrase was added to distinguish a previous patent (the
"Booth" patent) that disclosed an ultrafiltration process operating at a pH above 9.0. The parties disagree as to why the
low-end pH limit of 6.0 was included as part of the claim.2
I The pH, or power (exponent) of Hydrogen, of a solution is a measure
of its acidity or alkalinity. A pH of 7.0 is neutral; a pH below 7.0 is acidic;
and a pH above 7.0 is alkaline. Although measurement of pH is on a
logarithmic scale, with each whole number difference representing a tenfold difference in acidity, the practical significance of any such difference
will often depend on the context. Pure water, for example, has a neutral
pH of 7.0, whereas carbonated water has an acidic pH of 3.0, and concentrated hydrochloric acid has a pH approaching 0.0. On the other end of
the scale, milk of magnesia has a pH of 10.0, whereas household ammonia
has a pH of 11.9. 21 Encyclopedia Americana 844 (Int'l ed. 1990).
2 Petitioner contends that the lower limit was added because below a pH
of 6.0 the patented process created "foaming" problems in the plant and
because the process was not shown to work below that pH level. Brief
for Petitioner 4, n. 5, 37, n. 28. Respondent counters that the process was
successfully tested to pH levels as low as 2.2 with no effect on the process
because of foaming, but offers no particular explanation as to why the
lower level of 6.0 pH was selected. Brief for Respondent 34, n. 34.

Cite as: 520 U. S. 17 (1997)

Opinion of the Court

In 1986, Warner-Jenkinson developed an ultrafiltration
process that operated with membrane pore diameters assumed to be 5-15 Angstroms, at pressures of 200 to nearly
500 p. s. i. g., and at a pH of 5.0. Warner-Jenkinson did not
learn of the '746 patent until after it had begun commercial
use of its ultrafiltration process. Hilton Davis eventually
learned of Warner-Jenkinson's use of ultrafiltration and, in
1991, sued Warner-Jenkinson for patent infringement.
As trial approached, Hilton Davis conceded that there was
no literal infringement, and relied solely on the doctrine of
equivalents. Over Warner-Jenkinson's objection that the
doctrine of equivalents was an equitable doctrine to be applied by the court, the issue of equivalence was included
among those sent to the jury. The jury found that the '746
patent was not invalid and that Warner-Jenkinson infringed
upon the patent under the doctrine of equivalents. The jury
also found, however, that Warner-Jenkinson had not intentionally infringed, and therefore awarded only 20% of the
damages sought by Hilton Davis. The District Court denied
Warner-Jenkinson's post-trial motions, and entered a permanent injunction prohibiting Warner-Jenkinson from practicing ultrafiltration below 500 p. s. i. g. and below 9.01 pH. A
fractured en banc Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
affirmed. 62 F. 3d 1512 (1995).
The majority below held that the doctrine of equivalents
continues to exist and that its touchstone is whether substantial differences exist between the accused process and the
patented process. Id., at 1521-1522. The court also held
that the question of equivalence is for the jury to decide and
that the jury in this case had substantial evidence from
which it could conclude that the Warner-Jenkinson process
was not substantially different from the ultrafiltration process disclosed in the '746 patent. Id., at 1525.
There were three separate dissents, commanding a total
of 5 of 12 judges. Four of the five dissenting judges viewed
the doctrine of equivalents as allowing an improper expan-

24

WARNER-JENKINSON CO. v. HILTON DAVIS
CHEMICAL CO.
Opinion of the Court

sion of claim scope, contrary to this Court's numerous holdings that it is the claim that defines the invention and gives
notice to the public of the limits of the patent monopoly. Id.,
at 1537-1538 (opinion of Plager, J.). The fifth dissenter, the
late Judge Nies, was able to reconcile the prohibition against
enlarging the scope of claims and the doctrine of equivalents
by applying the doctrine to each element of a claim, rather
than to the accused product or process "overall." Id., at
1574. As she explained it: "The 'scope' is not enlarged if
courts do not go beyond the substitution of equivalent elements." Ibid. All of the dissenters, however, would have
found that a much narrowed doctrine of equivalents may be
applied in whole or in part by the court. Id., at 1540-1542
(opinion of Plager, J.); id., at 1579 (opinion of Nies, J.).
We granted certiorari, 516 U. S. 1145 (1996), and now
reverse and remand.
II
In Graver Tank we considered the application of the doctrine of equivalents to an accused chemical composition for
use in welding that differed from the patented welding material by the substitution of one chemical element. 339 U. S.,
at 610. The substituted elemient did not fall within the literal terms of the patent claim, but the Court nonetheless
found that the "question which thus emerges is whether the
substitution [of one element for the other] ... is a change of
such substance as to make the doctrine of equivalents inapplicable; or conversely, whether under the circumstances the
change was so insubstantial that the trial court's invocation
of the doctrine of equivalents was justified." Ibid. The
Court also described some of the considerations that go into
applying the doctrine of equivalents:
"What constitutes equivalency must be determined
against the context of the patent, the prior art, and the
particular circumstances of the case. Equivalence, in
the patent law, is not the prisoner of a formula and is

Cite as: 520 U. S. 17 (1997)

Opinion of the Court

not an absolute to be considered in a vacuum. It does
not require complete identity for every purpose and
in every respect. In determining equivalents, things
equal to the same thing may not be equal to each other
and, by the same token, things for most purposes different may sometimes be equivalents. Consideration must
be given to the purpose for which an ingredient is used
in a patent, the qualities it has when combined with the
other ingredients, and the function which it is intended
to perform. An important factor is whether persons
reasonably skilled in the art would have known of the
interchangeability of an ingredient not contained in the
patent with one that was." Id., at 609.
Considering those factors, the Court viewed the difference
between the chemical element claimed in the patent and the
substitute element to be "colorable only," and concluded that
the trial court's judgment of infringement under the doctrine
of equivalents was proper. Id., at 612.
A
Petitioner's primary argument in this Court is that the
doctrine of equivalents, as set out in Graver Tank in 1950,
did not survive the 1952 revision of the Patent Act, 35
U. S. C. § 100 et seq., because it is inconsistent with several
aspects of that Act. In particular, petitioner argues: (1) The
doctrine of equivalents is inconsistent with the statutory requirement that a patentee specifically "claim" the invention
covered by a patent, § 112; (2) the doctrine circumvents the
patent reissue process-designed to correct mistakes in drafting or the like-and avoids the express limitations on that
process, §§ 251-252; (3) the doctrine is inconsistent with the
primacy of the Patent and Trademark Office (PTO) in setting
the scope of a patent through the patent prosecution process;
and (4) the doctrine was implicitly rejected as a general matter by Congress' specific and limited inclusion of the doctrine

26

WARNER-JENKINSON CO. v. HILTON DAVIS
CHEMICAL CO.
Opinion of the Court

in one section regarding "means" claiming, § 112, 6. All
but one of these arguments were made in Graver Tank in
the context of the 1870 Patent Act, and failed to command
a majority.3
The 1952 Patent Act is not materially different from the
1870 Act with regard to claiming, reissue, and the role of
the PTO. Compare, e. g., 35 U. S. C. § 112 ("The specification
shall conclude with one or more claims particularly pointing
out and distinctly claiming the subject matter which the applicant regards as his invention") with the Consolidated Patent Act of 1870, ch. 230, § 26, 16 Stat. 198, 201 (the applicant
"shall particularly point out and distinctly claim the part,
improvement, or combination which he claims as his invention or discovery"). Such minor differences as exist between those provisions in the 1870 and the 1952 Acts have
no bearing on the result reached in Graver Tank, and thus
provide no basis for our overruling it. In the context of infringement, we have already held that pre-1952 precedent
survived the passage of the 1952 Act. See Aro Mfg. Co. v.
Convertible Top Replacement Co., 365 U. S. 336, 342 (1961)
(new section defining infringement "left intact the entire
S'Graver Tank was decided over a vigorous dissent. In that dissent,
Justice Black raised the first three of petitioner's four arguments against
the doctrine of equivalents. See 339 U. S., at 613-614 (doctrine inconsistent with statutory requirement to "distinctly claim" the invention); id., at
614-615 (patent reissue process available to correct mistakes); id., at 615,
n. 3 (duty lies with the Patent Office to examine claims and to conform
them to the scope of the invention; inventors may appeal Patent Office
determinations if they disagree with result).
Indeed, petitioner's first argument was not new even in 1950. Nearly
100 years before Graver Tank, this Court approved of the doctrine of
equivalents in Winans v. Dennead, 15 How. 330 (1854). The dissent in
Winans unsuccessfully argued that the majority result was inconsistent
with the requirement in the 1836 Patent Act that the applicant "Particularly 'specify and point' out what he claims as his invention," and that the
patent protected nothing more. Id., at 347 (opinion of Campbell, J.).

Cite as: 520 U. S. 17 (1997)
Opinion of the Court

body of case law on direct infringement").
We see no reason
4
to reach a different result here.
Petitioner's fourth argument for an implied congressional
negation of the doctrine of equivalents turns on the reference
to "equivalents" in the "means" claiming provision of the
1952 Act. Section 112, 6, a provision not contained in the
1870 Act, states:
"An element in a claim for a combination may be expressed as a means or step for performing a specified
function without the recital of structure, material, or
acts in support thereof, and such claim shall be construed to cover the corresponding structure, material,
or acts described in the specification and equivalents
thereof." (Emphasis added.)
Thus, under this new provision, an applicant can describe an
element of his invention by the result accomplished or the
function served, rather than describing the item or element
to be used (e. g., "a means of connecting Part A to Part B,"
rather than "a two-penny nail"). Congress enacted § 112,
6, in response to Halliburton Oil Well Cementing Co. v.
Walker, 329 U. S. 1 (1946), which rejected claims that "do
not describe the invention but use 'conveniently functional
language at the exact point of novelty."' Id., at 8 (citation
I Petitioner argues that the evolution in patent practice from "central"
claiming (describing the core principles of the invention) to "peripheral"
claiming (describing the outer boundaries of the invention) requires that
we treat Graver Tank as an aberration and abandon the doctrine of equivalents. Brief for Petitioner 43-45. We disagree. The suggested change
in claiming practice predates Graver Tank, is not of statutory origin, and
seems merely to reflect narrower inventions in more crowded arts. Also,
judicial recognition of so-called "pioneer" patents suggests that the abandonment of "central" claiming may be overstated. That a claim describing a limited improvement in a crowded field will have a limited range of
permissible equivalents does not negate the availability of the doctrine
vel non.

28

WARNER-JENKINSON CO. v. HILTON DAVIS
CHEMICAL CO.
Opinion of the Court

omitted). See In re Donaldson Co., 16 F. 3d 1189, 1194 (CA
Fed. 1994) (Congress enacted predecessor of § 112, 6, in response to Halliburton);In re Fuetterer,319 F. 2d 259, 264,
n. 11 (CCPA 1963) (same); see also 2 D. Chisum, Patents
§8.04[2], pp. 63-64 (1996) (discussing 1954 commentary of
then-Chief Patent Examiner P. J. Federico). Section 112,
6, now expressly allows so-called "means" claims, with the
proviso that application of the broad literal language of such
claims must be limited to only those means that are "equivalen[t]" to the actual means shown in the patent specification.
This is an application of the doctrine of equivalents in a restrictive role, narrowing the application of broad literal claim
elements. We recognized this type of role for the doctrine
of equivalents in Graver Tank itself. 339 U. S., at 608-609.
The added provision, however, is silent on the doctrine of
equivalents as applied where there is no literal infringement.
Because § 112, 6, was enacted as a targeted cure to a
specific problem, and because the reference in that provision
to "equivalents" appears to be no more than a prophylactic
against potential side effects of that cure, such limited congressional action should not be overread for negative implications. Congress in 1952 could easily have responded to
Graver Tank as it did to the Halliburtondecision. But it
did not. Absent something more compelling than the dubious negative inference offered by petitioner, the lengthy history of the doctrine of equivalents strongly supports adherence to our refusal in Graver Tank to find that the Patent
Act conflicts with that doctrine. Congress can legislate the
doctrine of equivalents out of existence any time it chooses.
The various policy arguments now made by both sides are
thus best addressed to Congress, not this Court.
B
We do, however, share the concern of the dissenters below
that the doctrine of equivalents, as it has come to be applied
since Graver Tank, has taken on a life of its own, unbounded

Cite as: 520 U. S. 17 (1997)

Opinion of the Court

by the patent claims. There can be no denying that the doctrine of equivalents, when applied broadly, conflicts with the
definitional and public-notice functions of the statutory
claiming requirement. Judge Nies identified one means of
avoiding this conflict:
"[A] distinction can be drawn that is not too esoteric
between substitution of an equivalent for a component
in an invention and enlarging the metes and bounds of
the invention beyond what is claimed.
"Where a claim to an invention is expressed as a combination of elements, as here, 'equivalents' in the sobriquet 'Doctrine of Equivalents' refers to the equivalency
of an element or part of the invention with one that is
substituted in the accused product or process.
"This view that the accused device or process must be
more than 'equivalent' overall reconciles the Supreme
Court's position on infringement by equivalents with its
concurrent statements that 'the courts have no right to
enlarge a patent beyond the scope of its claims as allowed by the Patent Office.' [Citations omitted.] The
'scope' is not enlarged if courts do not go beyond the
substitution of equivalent elements." 62 F. 3d, at 15731574 (dissenting opinion) (emphasis in original).
We concur with this apt reconciliation of our two lines of
precedent. Each element contained in a patent claim is
deemed material to defining the scope of the patented invention, and thus the doctrine of equivalents must be applied to
individual elements of the claim, not to the invention as a
whole. It is important to ensure that the application of the
doctrine, even as to an individual element, is not allowed
such broad play as to effectively eliminate that element in
its entirety. So long as the doctrine of equivalents does not
encroach beyond the limits just described, or beyond related

30

WARNER-JENKINSON CO. v. HILTON DAVIS
CHEMICAL CO.
Opinion of the Court

limits to be discussed infra this page and 31-34, 39, n. 8, and
39-40, we are confident that the doctrine will not vitiate the
central functions of the patent claims themselves.
III
Understandably reluctant to assume this Court would
overrule Graver Tank, petitioner has offered alternative arguments in favor of a more restricted doctrine of equivalents
than it feels was applied in this case. We address each in
turn.
A
Petitioner first argues that Graver Tank never purported
to supersede a well-established limit on nonliteral infringement, known variously as "prosecution history estoppel" and
"file wrapper estoppel." See Bayer Aktiengesellschaft v.
Duphar Int'l Research B. V, 738 F. 2d 1237, 1238 (CA Fed.
1984). According to petitioner, any surrender of subject
matter during patent prosecution, regardless of the reason
for such surrender, precludes recapturing any part of that
subject matter, even if it is equivalent to the matter expressly claimed. Because, during patent prosecution, respondent limited the pH element of its claim to pH levels
between 6.0 and 9.0, petitioner would have those limits form
bright lines beyond which no equivalents may be claimed.
Any inquiry into the reasons for a surrender, petitioner
claims, would undermine the public's right to clear notice of
the scope of the patent as embodied in the patent fie.
We can readily agree with petitioner that Graver Tank did
not dispose of prosecution history estoppel as a legal limitation on the doctrine of equivalents. But petitioner reaches
too far in arguing that the reason for an amendment during
patent prosecution is irrelevant to any subsequent estoppel.
In each of our cases cited by petitioner and by the dissent
below, prosecution history estoppel was tied to amendments
made to avoid the prior art, or otherwise to address a specific
concern-such as obviousness-that arguably would have

Cite as: 520 U. S. 17 (1997)

Opinion of the Court

rendered the claimed subject matter unpatentable. Thus, in
Exhibit Supply Co. v. Ace Patents Corp., 315 U. S. 126 (1942),
Chief Justice Stone distinguished inclusion of a limiting
phrase in an original patent claim from the "very different"
situation in which "the applicant, in order to meet objections
in the Patent Office, based on references to the prior art,
adopted the phrase as a substitute for the broader one" previously used. Id., at 136 (emphasis added). Similarly, in
Keystone Driller Co. v. Northwest Engineering Corp., 294
U. S. 42 (1935), estoppel was applied where the initial claims
were "rejected on the prior art," id., at 48, n. 6, and where
the allegedly infringing equivalent element was outside of
the revised claims and within the prior art that formed the
basis for the rejection of the earlier claims, id., at 48.5
It is telling that in each case this Court probed the reasoning behind the Patent Office's insistence upon a change
in the claims. In each instance, a change was demanded
because the claim as otherwise written was viewed as not
describing a patentable invention at all-typically because
what it described was encompassed within the prior art.
But, as the United States informs us, there are a variety of
other reasons why the PTO may request a change in claim
language. Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 22-23
r See also Smith v. Magic City Kennel Club, Inc., 282 U.S. 784, 788
(1931) (estoppel applied to amended claim where the original "claim was
rejected on the prior patent to" another); Computing Scale Co. of America
v. Automatic Scale Co., 204 U. S.609, 618-620 (1907) (initial claims rejected based on lack of invention over prior patents); Hubbell v. United
States, 179 U. S.77, 83 (1900) (patentee estopped from excluding a claim
element where element was added to overcome objections based on lack
of novelty over prior patents); Sutter v. Robinson, 119 U. S.530, 541 (1886)
(estoppel applied where, during patent prosecution, the applicant "was expressly required to state that [the device's] structural plan was old and
not of his invention"); cf Graham v. John Deere Co. of Kansas City, 383
U. S.1, 33 (1966) (noting, in a validity determination, that "claims that
have been narrowed in order to obtain the issuance of a patent by distinguishing the prior art cannot be sustained to cover that which was previously by limitation eliminated from the patent").

32

WARNER-JENKINSON CO. v. HILTON DAVIS
CHEMICAL CO.
Opinion of the Court

(counsel for the PTO also appearing on the brief). And if
the PTO has been requesting changes in claim language
without the intent to limit equivalents or, indeed, with the
expectation that language it required would in many cases
allow for a range of equivalents, we should be extremely reluctant to upset the basic assumptions of the PTO without
substantial reason for doing so. Our prior cases have consistently applied prosecution history estoppel only where
claims have been amended for a limited set of reasons, and
we see no substantial cause for requiring a more rigid rule
6
invoking an estoppel regardless of the reasons for a change.
In this case, the patent examiner objected to the patent
claim due to a perceived overlapwith the Booth patent,
which revealed an ultraffitration process operating at a pH
above 9.0. In response to this objection, the phrase "at a
pH from approximately 6.0 to 9.0" was added to the claim.
While it is undisputed that the upper limit of 9.0 was added
in order to distinguish the Booth patent, the reason for adding the lower limit of 6.0 is unclear. The*lower limit certainly did not serve to distinguish the Booth patent, which
said nothing about pH levels below 6.0. Thus, while a lower
limit of 6.0, by its mere inclusion, became a material element
of the claim, that did not necessarily preclude the application
of the doctrine of equivalents as to that element. See Hubbell v. United States, 179 U. S. 77, 82 (1900) (" '[A]ll [specified
elements] must be regarded as material,"' though it remains
an open "'question whether an omitted part is supplied by
an equivalent device or instrumentality"' (citation omitted)).
6

That petitioner's rule might provide a brighter line for determining

whether a patentee is estopped under certain circumstances is not a sufficient reason for adopting such a rule. This is especially true where, as
here, the PTO may have relied upon a flexible rule of estoppel when decid-

ing whether to ask for a change in the first place. To change so substantially the rules of the game now could very well subvert the various balances the PTO sought to strike when issuing the numerous patents which
have not yet expired and which would be affected by our decision.

Cite as: 520 U. S. 17 (1997)
Opinion of the Court

Where the reason for the change was not related to avoiding
the prior art, the change may introduce a new element, but
it does not necessarily preclude infringement by equivalents
of that element.7
We are left with the problem, however, of what to do in a
case like the one at bar, where the record seems not to reveal
the reason for including the lower pH limit of 6.0. In our
view, holding that certain reasons for a claim amendment
may avoid the application of prosecution history estoppel is
not tantamount to holding that the absence of a reason for
an amendment may similarly avoid such an estoppel. Mindful that claims do indeed serve both a definitional and a notice function, we think the better rule is to place the burden
on the patent holder to establish the reason for an amendment required during patent prosecution. The court then
would decide whether that reason is sufficient to overcome
prosecution history estoppel as a bar to application of the
doctrine of equivalents to the element added by that amendment. Where no explanation is established, however, the
court should presume that the patent applicant had a substantial reason related to patentability for including the
limiting element added by amendment. In those circumstances, prosecution history estoppel would bar the application of the doctrine of equivalents as to that element. The
presumption we have described, one subject to rebuttal if an
appropriate reason for a required amendment is established,
gives proper deference to the role of claims in defining an
invention and providing public notice, and to the primacy of
7We do not suggest that, where a change is made to overcome an objection based on the prior art, a court is free to review the correctness of
that objection when deciding whether to apply prosecution history estoppel. As petitioner rightly notes, such concerns are properly addressed on
direct appeal from the denial of a patent, and will not be revisited in an
infringement action. Smith v. Magic City Kennel Club, Inc., supra, at
789-790. What is permissible for a court to explore is the reason (right
or wrong) for the objection and the manner in which the amendment addressed and avoided the objection.

34

WARNER-JENKINSON CO. v. HILTON DAVIS
CHEMICAL CO.
Opinion of the Court

the PTO in ensuring that the claims allowed cover only subject matter that is properly patentable in a proffered patent
application. Applied in this fashion, prosecution history
estoppel places reasonable limits on the doctrine of equivalents, and further insulates the doctrine from any feared conflict with the Patent Act.
Because respondent has not proffered in this Court a reason for the addition of a lower pH limit, it is impossible to
tell whether the reason for that addition could properly avoid
an estoppel. Whether a reason in fact exists, but simply
was not adequately developed, we cannot say. On remand,
the Federal Circuit can consider whether reasons for that
portion of the amendment were offered or not and whether
further opportunity to establish such reasons would be
proper.
B
Petitioner next argues that even if Graver Tank remains
good law, the case held only that the absence of substantial
differences was a necessary element for infringement under
the doctrine of equivalents, not that it was sufficient for such
a result. Brief for Petitioner 32. Relying on Graver
Tank's references to the problem of an "unscrupulous copyist" and "piracy," 339 U. S., at 607, petitioner would require
judicial exploration of the equities of a case before allowing
application of the doctrine of equivalents. To be sure,
Graver Tank refers to the prevention of copying and piracy
when describing the benefits of the doctrine of equivalents.
That the doctrine produces such benefits, however, does not
mean that its application is limited only to cases where those
particular benefits are obtained.
Elsewhere in Graver Tank the doctrine is described in
more neutral terms. And the history of the doctrine as relied upon by Graver Tank reflects a basis for the doctrine
not so limited as petitioner would have it. In Winans v.
Denmead, 15 How. 330, 343 (1854), we described the doctrine

Cite as: 520 U. S. 17 (1997)
Opinion of the Court

of equivalents as growing out of a legally implied term in
each patent claim that "the claim extends to the thing patented, however its form or proportions may be varied."
Under that view, application of the doctrine of equivalents
involves determining whether a particular accused product
or process infringes upon the patent claim, where the claim
takes the form-half express, half implied-of "X and its
equivalents."
Machine Co. v. Murphy, 97 U. S. 120, 125 (1878), on which
Graver Tank also relied, offers a similarly intent-neutral
view of the doctrine of equivalents:
"[T]he substantial equivalent of a thing, in the sense of
the patent law, is the same as the thing itself; so that if
two devices do the same work in substantially the same
way, and accomplish substantially the same result, they
are the same, even though they differ in name, form,
or shape."
If the essential predicate of the doctrine of equivalents is
the notion of identity between a patented invention and its
equivalent, there is no basis for treating an infringing equivalent any differently from a device that infringes the express
terms of the patent. Application of the doctrine of equivalents, therefore, is akin to determining literal infringement,
and neither requires proof of intent.
Petitioner also points to Graver Tank's seeming reliance
on the absence of independent experimentation by the alleged infringer as supporting an equitable defense to the doctrine of equivalents. The Federal Circuit explained this factor by suggesting that an alleged infringer's behavior, be it
copying, designing around a patent, or independent experimentation, indirectly reflects the substantiality of the differences between the patented invention and the accused device
or process. According to the Federal Circuit, a person aiming to copy or aiming to avoid a patent is imagined to be at

36

WARNER-JENKINSON CO. v. HILTON DAVIS
CHEMICAL CO.
Opinion of the Court

least marginally skilled at copying or avoidance, and thus
intentional copying raises an inference-rebuttable by proof
of independent development-of having only insubstantial
differences, and intentionally designing around a patent
claim raises an inference of substantial differences. This explanation leaves much to be desired. At a minimum, one
wonders how ever to distinguish between the intentional
copyist making minor changes to lower the risk of legal action and the incremental innovator designing around the
claims, yet seeking to capture as much as is permissible of
the patented advance.
But another explanation is available that does not require
a divergence from generally objective principles of patent
infringement. In both instances in Graver Tank where we
referred to independent research or experiments, we were
discussing the known interchangeability between the chemical compound claimed in the patent and the compound substituted by the alleged infringer. The need for independent experimentation thus could reflect knowledge-or lack
thereof-of interchangeability possessed by one presumably
skilled in the art. The known interchangeability of substitutes for an element of a patent is one of the express objective factors noted by Graver Tank as bearing upon whether
the accused device is substantially the same as the patented
invention. Independent experimentation by the alleged infringer would not always reflect upon the objective question
whether a person skilled in the art would have known of the
interchangeability between two elements, but in many cases
it would likely be probative of such knowledge.
Although Graver Tank certainly leaves room for petitioner's suggested inclusion of intent-based elements in the doctrine of equivalents, we do not read it as requiring them.
The better view, and the one consistent with Graver Tank's
predecessors and the objective approach to infringement, is
that intent plays no role in the application of the doctrine
of equivalents.

Cite as: 520 U. S. 17 (1997)

Opinion of the Court

C

Finally, petitioner proposes that in order to minimize conflict with the notice function of patent claims, the doctrine of
equivalents should be limited to equivalents that are disclosed within the patent itself. A milder version of this argument, which found favor with the dissenters below, is that
the doctrine should be limited to equivalents that were
known at the time the patent was issued, and should not
extend to after-arising equivalents.
As we have noted, supra, at 36, with regard to the objective nature of the doctrine, a skilled practitioner's knowledge
of the interchangeability between claimed and accused elements is not relevant for its own sake, but rather for what it
tells the factfinder about the similarities or differences between those elements. Much as the perspective of the hypothetical "reasonable person" gives content to concepts such
as "negligent" behavior, the perspective of a skilled practitioner provides content to, and limits on, the concept of
"equivalence." Insofar as the question under the doctrine
of equivalents is whether an accused element is equivalent
to a claimed element, the proper time for evaluating equivalency-and thus knowledge of interchangeability between elements-is at the time of infringement, not at the time the
patent was issued. And rejecting the milder version of petitioner's argument necessarily rejects the more severe proposition that equivalents must not only be known, but must
also be actually disclosed in the patent in order for such
equivalents to infringe upon the patent.
IV
The various opinions below, respondents, and amici devote
considerable attention to whether application of the doctrine
of equivalents is a task for the judge or for the jury. However, despite petitioner's argument below that the doctrine
should be applied by the judge, in this Court petitioner
makes only passing reference to this issue. See Brief for

38

WARNER-JENKINSON CO. v. HILTON DAVIS
CHEMICAL CO.
Opinion of the Court

Petitioner 22, n. 15 ("If this Court were to hold in Markman
v. Westview Instruments, Inc., No. 95-26 (argued Jan. 8,
1996), that judges rather than juries are to construe patent
claims, so as to provide a uniform definition of the scope of
the legally protected monopoly, it would seem at crosspurposes to say that juries may nonetheless expand the
claims by resort to a broad notion of 'equivalents' "); Reply
Brief for Petitioner 20 (whether judge or jury should apply
the doctrine of equivalents depends on how the Court views
the nature of the inquiry under the doctrine of equivalents).
Petitioner's comments go more to the alleged inconsistency between the doctrine of equivalents and the claiming
requirement than to the role of the jury in applying the
doctrine as properly understood. Because resolution of
whether, or how much of, the application of the doctrine of
equivalents can be resolved by the court is not necessary for
us to answer the question presented, we decline to take it
up. The Federal Circuit held that it was for the jury to
decide whether the accused process was equivalent to the
claimed process. There was ample support in our prior
cases for that holding. See, e. g., Machine Co. v. Murphy, 97
U. S., at 125 ("[I]n determining the question of infringement,
the court or jury, as the case may be, . . . are to look at the
machines or their several devices or elements in the light of
what they do, or what office or function they perform, and
how they perform it, and to find that one thing is substantially the same as another, if it performs substantially the
same function in substantially the same way to obtain the
same result"); Winans v. Denmead, 15 How., at 344 ("[It] is
a question for the jury" whether the accused device was "the
same in kind, and effected by the employment of [the patentee's] mode of operation in substance"). Nothing in our recent decision in Markman v. Westview Instruments, Inc.,
517 U. S. 370 (1996), necessitates a different result than that
reached by the Federal Circuit. Indeed, Markman cites
with considerable favor, when discussing the role of judge

Cite as: 520 U. S. 17 (1997)
Opinion of the Court

and jury, the seminal Winans decision. 517 U. S., at 384385. Whether, if the issue were squarely presented to us,
we would reach a different conclusion than did the Federal
8
Circuit is not a question we need decide today.
V
All that remains is to address the debate regarding the
linguistic framework under which "equivalence" is determined. Both the parties and the Federal Circuit spend considerable time arguing whether the so-called "triple identity" test-focusing on the function served by a particular
claim element, the way that element serves that function,
and the result thus obtained by that element-is a suitable
method for determining equivalence, or whether an "insubstantial differences" approach is better. There seems to be
substantial agreement that, while the triple identity test

may be suitable for analyzing mechanical devices, it often
8With regard to the concern over unreviewability due to black-box jury
verdicts, we offer only guidance, not a specific mandate. Where the evidence is such that no reasonable jury could determine two elements to be
equivalent, district courts are obliged to grant partial or complete summary judgment. See Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. 56; Celotex Corp. v. Catrett,
477 U. S. 317, 322-323 (1986). If there has been a reluctance to do so by
some courts due to unfamiliarity with the subject matter, we are confident
that the Federal Circuit can remedy the problem. Of course, the various
legal limitations on the application of the doctrine of equivalents are to be
determined by the court, either on a pretrial motion for partial summary
judgment or on a motion for judgment as a matter of law at the close of
the evidence and after the jury verdict. Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. 56; Fed.
Rule Civ. Proc. 50. Thus, under the particular facts of a case, if prosecution history estoppel would apply or if a theory of equivalence would entirely vitiate a particular claim element, partial or complete judgment
should be rendered by the court, as there would be no further material
issue for the jury to resolve. Finally, in cases that reach the jury, a special verdict and/or interrogatories on each claim element could be very
useful in facilitating review, uniformity, and possibly postverdict judgments as a matter of law. See Fed. Rules Civ. Proc. 49 and 50. We leave
it to the Federal Circuit how best to implement procedural improvements
to promote certainty, consistency, and reviewability to this area of the law.

40

WARNER-JENKINSON CO. v. HILTON DAVIS
CHEMICAL CO.
Opinion of the Court

provides a poor framework for analyzing other products or
processes. On the other hand, the insubstantial differences
test offers little additional guidance as to what might render
any given difference "insubstantial."
In our view, the particular linguistic framework used is
less important than whether the test is probative of the essential inquiry: Does the accused product or process contain
elements identical or equivalent to each claimed element of
the patented invention? Different linguistic frameworks
may be more suitable to different cases, depending on their
particular facts. A focus on individual elements and a special vigilance against allowing the concept of equivalence to
eliminate completely any such elements should reduce considerably the imprecision of whatever language is used. An
analysis of the role played by each element in the context of
the specific patent claim will thus inform the inquiry as to
whether a substitute element matches the function, way, and
result of the claimed element, or whether the substitute element plays a role substantially different from the claimed
element. With these limiting principles as a backdrop, we
see no purpose in going further and micromanaging the Federal Circuit's particular word choice for analyzing equivalence. We expect that the Federal Circuit will refine the
formulation of the test for equivalence in the orderly course
of case-by-case determinations, and we leave such refinement to that court's sound judgment in this area of its special expertise.
VI
Today we adhere to the doctrine of equivalents. The determination of equivalence should be applied as an objective inquiry on an element-by-element basis. Prosecution
history estoppel continues to be available as a defense to
infringement, but if the patent holder demonstrates that an
amendment required during prosecution had a purpose unrelated to patentability, a court must consider that purpose in

Cite as: 520 U. S. 17 (1997)
GINSBURG, J., concurring

order to decide whether an estoppel is precluded. Where
the patent holder is unable to establish such a purpose, a
court should presume that the purpose behind the required
amendment is such that prosecution history estoppel would
apply. Because the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
did not consider all of the requirements as described by us
today, particularly as related to prosecution history estoppel
and the preservation of some meaning for each element in a
claim, we reverse its judgment and remand the case for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
JUSTICE GINSBURG,

with whom JUSTICE KENNEDY joins,

concurring.
I join the opinion of the Court and write separately to add
a cautionary note on the rebuttable presumption the Court
announces regarding prosecution history estoppel. I address in particular the application of the presumption in this
case and others in which patent prosecution has already been
completed. The new presumption, if applied woodenly,
might in some instances unfairly discount the expectations
of a patentee who had no notice at the time of patent prosecution that such a presumption would apply. Such a patentee would have had little incentive to insist that the reasons for all modifications be memorialized in the file wrapper
as they were made. Years after the fact, the patentee may
find it difficult to establish an evidentiary basis that would
overcome the new presumption. The Court's opinion is sensitive to this problem, noting that "the PTO may have relied
upon a flexible rule of estoppel when deciding whether to ask
for a change" during patent prosecution. Ante, at 32, n. 6.
Because respondent has not presented to this Court any
explanation for the addition of the lower pH limit, I concur
in the decision to remand the matter to the Federal Circuit.

42

WARNER-JENKINSON CO. v. HILTON DAVIS
CHEMICAL CO.
GINSBURG, J., concurring

On remand, that court can determine-bearing in mind the
prior absence of clear rules of the game-whether suitable
reasons for including the lower pH limit were earlier offered
or, if not, whether they can now be established.

