OCTOBER TERM, 1996

Syllabus

CLINTON v. JONES
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT
No. 95-1853. Argued January 13, 1997-Decided May 27, 1997
Respondent sued under 42 U. S. C. §§ 1983 and 1985 and Arkansas law to
recover damages from petitioner, the current President of the United
States, alleging, inter alia, that while he was Governor of Arkansas,
petitioner made "abhorrent" sexual advances to her, and that her rejection of those advances led to punishment by her supervisors in the state
job she held at the time. Petitioner promptly advised the Federal
District Court that he would file a motion to dismiss on Presidential
immunity grounds, and requested that all other pleadings and motions
be deferred until the immunity issue was resolved. After the court
granted that request, petitioner filed a motion to dismiss without prejudice and to toll any applicable statutes of limitation during his Presidency. The District Judge denied dismrssal on immunity grounds and
ruled that discovery could go forward, but ordered any trial stayed until
petitioner's Presidency ended. The Eighth Circuit affirmed the dismissal denial, but reversed the trial postponement as the "functional
equivalent" of a grant of temporary immunity to which petitioner was
not constitutionally entitled. The court explained that the President,
like other officials, is subject to the same laws that apply to all citizens,
that no case had been found in which an official was granted immunity
from suit for his unofficial acts, and that the rationale for official immunity is inapposite where only personal, private conduct by a President
is at issue. The court also rejected the argument that, unless immunity
is available, the threat of judicial interference with the Executive
Branch would violate separation of powers.
Held.
1. This Court need not address two important constitutional issues
not encompassed within the questions presented by the certiorari
petition: (1) whether a claim comparable to petitioner's assertion of
immunity might succeed in a state tribunal, and (2) whether a court
may compel the President's attendance at any specific time or place.
Pp.689-692.
2. Deferral of this litigation until petitioner's Presidency ends is not
constitutionally required. Pp. 692-710.
(a) Petitioner's principal submission-that in all but the most exceptional cases, the Constitution affords the President temporary immu-

CLINTON v. JONES
Syllabus
nity from civil damages litigation arising out of events that occurred
before he took office-cannot be sustained on the basis of precedent.
The principal rationale for affording Presidents immunity from damages
actions based on their official acts-i. e., to enable them to perform their
designated functions effectively without fear that a particular decision
may give rise to personal liability, see, e. g., Nixon v. Fitzgerald,457
U. S. 731, 749, 752, and n. 32-provides no support for an immunity
for unofficial conduct. Moreover, immunities for acts clearly within
official capacity are grounded in the nature of the function performed,
not the identity of the actor who performed it. Forresterv. White, 484
U. S. 219, 229. The Court is also unpersuaded by petitioner's historical
evidence, which sheds little light on the question at issue, and is largely
canceled by conflicting evidence that is itself consistent with both the
doctrine of Presidential immunity as set forth in Fitzgerald,and rejection of the immunity claim in this case. Pp. 692-697.
(b) The separation-of-powers doctrine does not require federal
courts to stay all private actions against the President until he leaves
office. Even accepting the unique importance of the Presidency in the
constitutional scheme, it does not follow that that doctrine would be
violated by allowing this action to proceed. The doctrine provides a
self-executing safeguard against the encroachment or aggrandizement
of one of the three coequal branches of Government at the expense of
another. Buckley v. Valeo, 424 U. S. 1, 122. But in this case there is
no suggestion that the Federal Judiciary is being asked to perform any
function that might in some way be described as "executive." Respondent is merely asking the courts to exercise their core Article III jurisdiction to decide cases and controversies, and, whatever the outcome, there
is no possibility that the decision here will curtail the scope of the Executive Branch's official powers. The Court rejects petitioner's contention that this case-as well as the potential additional litigation that an
affirmance of the Eighth Circuit's judgment might spawn-may place
unacceptable burdens on the President that will hamper the performance of his official duties. That assertion finds little support either in
history, as evidenced by the paucity of suits against sitting Presidents
for their private actions, or in the relatively narrow compass of the
issues raised in this particular case. Of greater significance, it is settled
that the Judiciary may severely burden the Executive Branch by reviewing the legality of the President's official conduct, see, e. g., Youngstown Sheet & Tube Co. v. Sawyer, 343 U. S. 579, and may direct appropriate process to the President himself, see, e. g., United States v.
Nixon, 418 U. S. 683. It must follow that the federal courts have power
to determine the legality of the President's unofficial conduct. The rea-

Cite as: 520 U. S. 681 (1997)
Syllabus
sons for rejecting a categorical rule requiring federal courts to stay
private actions during the President's term apply as well to a rule that
would, in petitioner's words, require a stay "in all but the most exceptional cases." Pp. 697-706.
(c) Contrary to the Eighth Circuit's ruling, the District Court's stay
order was not the "functional equivalent" of an unconstitutional grant
of temporary immunity. Rather, the District Court has broad discretion to stay proceedings as an incident to its power to control its own
docket. See, e. g., Landis v. North American Co., 299 U. S. 248, 254.
Moreover, the potential burdens on the President posed by this litigation are appropriate matters for that court to evaluate in its management of the case, and the high respect owed the Presidency is a matter
that should inform the conduct of the entire proceeding. Nevertheless,
the District Court's stay decision was an abuse of discretion because it
took no account of the importance of respondent's interest in bringing
the case to trial, and because it was premature in that there was nothing
in the record to enable a judge to assess whether postponement of trial
after the completion of discovery would be warranted. Pp. 706-708.
(d) The Court is not persuaded of the seriousness of the alleged
risks that this decision will generate a large volume of politically
motivated harassing and frivolous litigation and that national security
concerns might prevent the President from explaining a legitimate need
for a continuance, and has confidence in the ability of federal judges to
deal with both concerns. If Congress deems it appropriate to afford
the President stronger protection, it may respond with legislation.
Pp. 708-710.
72 F. 3d 1354, affirmed.
STEVENS, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which REHNQUIST,
C. J., and O'CoNNoR, SCALA, KENNEDY, SOUTER, THOMAS, and GiNsBURG, JJ., joined. BREYER, J., filed an opinion concurring in the judgment, post, p. 710.

Robert S. Bennett argued the cause for petitioner. With
him on the briefs were Carl S. Rauh, Alan Kriegel, Amy R.
Sabrin,and David A. Strauss.
Acting Solicitor General Dellinger argued the cause for
the United States as amicus curiae urging reversal. With
him on the brief were Assistant Attorney General Hunger,
Deputy Solicitor General Kneedler, Malcolm L. Stewart,
and Douglas N. Letter.

CLINTON v. JONES
Opinion of the Court

Gilbert K. Davis argued the cause for respondent. With
him on the brief was Joseph Cammarata.*
delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case raises a constitutional and a prudential question
concerning the Office of the President of the United States.
Respondent, a private citizen, seeks to recover damages from
the current occupant of that office based on actions allegedly
taken before his term began. The President submits that in
all but the most exceptional cases the Constitution requires
federal courts to defer such litigation until his term ends and
that, in any event, respect for the office warrants such a stay.
Despite the force of the arguments supporting the President's submissions, we conclude that they must be rejected.
JUSTICE STEVENS

Petitioner, William Jefferson Clinton, was elected to the
Presidency in 1992, and reelected in 1996. His term of office
expires on January 20, 2001. In 1991 he was the Governor
of the State of Arkansas. Respondent, Paula Corbin Jones,
is a resident of California. In 1991 she lived in Arkansas,
and was an employee of the Arkansas Industrial Development Commission.
On May 6, 1994, she commenced this action in the United
States District Court for the Eastern District of Arkansas
by filing a complaint naming petitioner and Danny Ferguson,
a former Arkansas State Police officer, as defendants. The
*John C. Jeffries, Jr., and Pamela S. Karlan fied a brief for Law Professors as amicus curiae urging reversal.
Christopher A Hansen and Steven R. Shapiro filed a brief for the
American Civil Liberties Union as amicus curiae urging affirmance.
Briefs of amicus curiae were filed for the Coalition of American Veterans by Laurence A Elgin;and for Law Professors by Ronald D. Rotunda,
Albert E. Jenner, Jr., Stephen B. Burbank, William Cohen, Geoffrey P.
Miller,Robert F Nagel, and Richard Parker.

Cite as: 520 U. S. 681 (1997)

Opinion of the Court

complaint alleges two federal claims, and two state-law
claims over which the federal court has jurisdiction because
of the diverse citizenship of the parties.' As the case comes
to us, we are required to assume the truth of the detailedbut as yet untested-factual allegations in the complaint.
Those allegations principally describe events that are said
to have occurred on the afternoon of May 8, 1991, during an
official conference held at the Excelsior Hotel in Little Rock,
Arkansas. The Governor delivered a speech at the conference; respondent-working as a state employee-staffed the
registration desk. She alleges that Ferguson persuaded her
to leave her desk and to visit the Governor in a business
suite at the hotel, where he made "abhorrent" 2 sexual advances that she vehemently rejected. She further claims
that her superiors at work subsequently dealt with her in a
hostile and rude manner, and changed her duties to punish
her for rejecting those advances. Finally, she alleges that
after petitioner was elected President, Ferguson defamed
her by making a statement to a reporter that implied she
had accepted petitioner's alleged overtures, and that various
persons authorized to speak for the President publicly
branded her a liar by denying that the incident had occurred.
Respondent seeks actual damages of $75,000 and punitive
damages of $100,000. Her complaint contains four counts.
The first charges that petitioner, acting under color of state
law, deprived her of rights protected by the Constitution, in
violation of Rev. Stat. § 1979, 42 U. S. C. § 1983. The second
charges that petitioner and Ferguson engaged in a conspiracy to violate her federal rights, also actionable under federal law. See Rev. Stat. § 1980, 42 U. S. C. § 1985. The
third is a state common-law claim for intentional infliction of
emotional distress, grounded primarily on the incident at the
ISee 28 U. S. C. § 1332. Jurisdiction over the federal claims is authorized by 28 U. S. C. §§ 1331 and 1343.
2Complaint 26.

CLINTON v. JONES

Opinion of the Court

hotel. The fourth count, also based on state law, is for defamation, embracing both the comments allegedly made to the
press by Ferguson and the statements of petitioner's agents.
Inasmuch as the legal sufficiency of the claims has not yet
been challenged, we assume, without deciding, that each of
the four counts states a cause of action as a matter of law.
With the exception of the last charge, which arguably may
involve conduct within the outer perimeter of the President's
official responsibilities, it is perfectly clear that the alleged
misconduct of petitioner was unrelated to any of his official
duties as President of the United States and, indeed, occurred before he was elected to that office.3
II
In response to the complaint, petitioner promptly advised
the District Court that he intended to file a motion to dismiss
on grounds of Presidential immunity, and requested the court
to defer all other pleadings and motions until after the immunity issue was resolved. 4 Relying on our cases holding that
immunity questions should be decided at the earliest possible
stage of the litigation, 858 F. Supp. 902, 905 (ED Ark. 1994),
our recognition of the "'singular importance of the President's duties,"' id., at 904 (quoting Nixon v. Fitzgerald, 457
U. S. 731, 751 (1982)), and the fact that the question did not
require any analysis of the allegations of the complaint, 858
F. Supp., at 905, the court granted the request. Petitioner
thereupon filed a motion "to dismiss ... without prejudice
and to toll any statutes of limitation [that may be applicable]
until he is no longer President, at which time the plaintiff
3

As the matter is not before us, see Jones v. Clinton, 72 F. 3d 1354,
1359, n. 7 (CA8 1996), we do not address the question whether the Presi-

dent's immunity from damages liability for acts taken within the "outer
perimeter" of his official responsibilities provides a defense to the fourth
count of the complaint. See Nixon v. Fitzgerald,457 U. S.731, 756 (1982).
4Record, Doc. No. 9; see 858 F. Supp. 902, 904 (ED Ark. 1994).

Cite as: 520 U. S. 681 (1997)
Opinion of the Court

may refile the instant suit." Record, Doe. No. 17. Extensive submissions were made to the District Court by the
parties and the Department of Justice.5
The District Judge denied the motion to dismiss on immunity grounds and ruled that discovery in the case could go
forward, but ordered any trial stayed until the end of petitioner's Presidency. 869 F. Supp. 690 (ED Ark. 1994). Although she recognized that a "thin majority" in Nixon v.
Fitzgerald,457 U. S. 731 (1982), had held that "the President
has absolute immunity from civil damage actions arising out
of the execution of official duties of office," she was not convinced that "a President has absolute immunity from civil
causes of action arising prior to assuming the office." 6 She
was, however, persuaded by some of the reasoning in our
opinion in Fitzgerald that deferring the trial if one were
required would be appropriate. 7 869 F. Supp., at 699-700.
Relying in part on the fact that respondent had failed to
bring her complaint until two days before the 3-year period
of limitations expired, she concluded that the public interest
in avoiding litigation that might hamper the President in
conducting the duties of his office outweighed any demonstrated need for an immediate trial. Id., at 698-699.
Both parties appealed. A divided panel of the Court of
Appeals affirmed the denial of the motion to dismiss, but
because it regarded the order postponing the trial until the
5See App. to Pet. for Cert. 53.
6869 F. Supp., at 698. She explained: "Nowhere in the Constitution,
congressional acts, or the writings of any judge or scholar, may any credible support for such a proposition be found. It is contrary to our form of
government, which asserts as did the English in the Magna Carta and

the Petition of Right, that even the sovereign is subject to God and the
law."
7

Ibid.

Although, as noted above, the District Court's initial order permitted
discovery to go forward, the court later stayed discovery pending the outcome of the appeals on the immunity issue. 879 F.Supp. 86 (ED Ark.
1995).

CLINTON v. JONES

Opinion of the Court

President leaves office as the "functional equivalent" of a
grant of temporary immunity, it reversed that order. 72 F.
3d 1354, 1361, n. 9, 1363 (CA8 1996). Writing for the majority, Judge Bowman explained that "the President, like all
other government officials, is subject to the same laws that
apply to all other members of our society," id., at 1358, that
he could find no "case in which any public official ever has
been granted any immunity from suit for his unofficial acts,"
ibid., and that the rationale for official immunity "is inapposite where only personal, private conduct by a President is
at issue," id., at 1360. The majority specifically rejected the
argument that, unless immunity is available, the threat of
judicial interference with the Executive Branch through
scheduling orders, potential contempt citations, and sanctions would violate separation-of-powers principles. Judge
Bowman suggested that "judicial case management sensitive
to the burdens of the presidency and the demands of the
President's schedule" would avoid the perceived danger.
Id., at 1361.
In dissent, Judge Ross submitted that even though the
holding in Fitzgeraldinvolved official acts, the logic of the
opinion, which "placed primary reliance on the prospect that
the President's discharge of his constitutional powers and
duties would be impaired if he were subject to suits for
damages," applies with equal force to this case. 72 F. 3d,
at 1367. In his view, "unless exigent circumstances can be
shown," all private actions for damages against a sitting
President must be stayed until the completion of his term.
Ibid. In this case, Judge Ross saw no reason why the stay
would prevent respondent from ultimately obtaining an adjudication of her claims.
In response to the dissent, Judge Beam wrote a separate
concurrence. He suggested that a prolonged delay may well
create a significant risk of irreparable harm to respondent
because of an unforeseeable loss of evidence or the possible

Cite as: 520 U. S. 681 (1997)
Opinion of the Court

death of a party. Id., at 1363-1364. Moreover, he argued
that in civil rights cases brought under § 1983 there is a "public interest in an ordinary citizen's timely vindication of...
her most fundamental right against alleged abuse of power
by government officials." Id., at 1365. In his view, the dissent's concern about judicial interference with the functioning of the Presidency was "greatly overstated." Ibid. Neither the involvement of prior Presidents in litigation, either
as parties or as witnesses, nor the character of this "relatively uncomplicated civil litigation," indicated that the
threat was serious. Id., at 1365-1366. Finally, he saw "no
basis for staying discovery or trial of the claims against
Trooper Ferguson." Id., at 1366.8
III
The President, represented by private counsel, filed a petition for certiorari. The Acting Solicitor General, representing the United States, supported the petition, arguing that
the decision of the Court of Appeals was "fundamentally mistaken" and created "serious risks for the institution of the
Presidency." 9 In her brief in opposition to certiorari, respondent argued that this "one-of-a-kind case is singularly
inappropriate" for the exercise of our certiorari jurisdiction
because it did not create any conflict among the Courts of
Appeals, it "does not pose any conceivable threat to the functioning of the Executive Branch," and there is no precedent
supporting the President's position. 10
While our decision to grant the petition, 518 U. S. 1016
(1996), expressed no judgment concerning the merits of the
case, it does reflect our appraisal of its importance. The
"Over the dissent of Judge MeMillian, the Court of Appeals denied a

suggestion for rehearing en banc. 81 F. 3d 78 (CA8 1996).
9Brief for United States in Support of Petition 5.
10Brief in Opposition 8, 10, 23.

CLINTON v. JONES

Opinion of the Court

representations made on behalf of the Executive Branch
as to the potential impact of the precedent established by
the Court of Appeals merit our respectful and deliberate
consideration.
It is true that we have often stressed the importance of
avoiding the premature adjudication of constitutional questions." That doctrine of avoidance, however, is applicable
to the entire Federal Judiciary, not just to this Court, cf. Arizonansfor Official English v. Arizona, ante, p. 43, and comes
into play after the court has acquired jurisdiction of a case.
It does not dictate a discretionary denial of every certiorari
petition raising a novel constitutional question. It does,
however, make it appropriate to identify two important constitutional issues not encompassed within the questions presented by the petition for certiorari that we need not address
today.12
"As we have explained: "'If there is one doctrine more deeply rooted
than any other in the process of constitutional adjudication, it is that
we ought not to pass on questions of constitutionality

. . .

unless such

adjudication is unavoidable.' Spector Motor Service v. McLaughlin,323
U. S. 101, 105 [(1944)]. It has long been the Court's 'considered practice
not to decide abstract, hypothetical or contingent questions ...

or to de-

cide any constitutional question in advance of the necessity for its decision ...

or to formulate a rule of constitutional law broader than is re-

quired by the precise facts to which it is to be applied ... or to decide any
constitutional question except with reference to the particular facts to
which it is to be applied ....' Alabama State Federationof Labor v.
McAdory, 325 U. S. 450, 461 [(1945)]. 'It is not the habit of the court to
decide questions of a constitutional nature unless absolutely necessary
to a decision of the case.' Burton v. United States, 196 U. S. 283, 295
[(1905)]." Rescue Army v. Municipal Court of Los Angeles, 331 U. S.
549, 570, n. 34 (1947).
'2 The two questions presented in the certiorari petition are:
"1. Whether the litigation of a private civil damages action against an
incumbent President must in all but the most exceptional cases be deferred until the President leaves office"; and "2. Whether a district court,

Cite as: 520 U. S. 681 (1997)

Opinion of the Court

First, because the claim of immunity is asserted in a federal court and relies heavily on the doctrine of separation
of powers that restrains each of the three branches of the
Federal Government from encroaching on the domain of
the other two, see, e. g., Buckley v. Valeo, 424 U. S. 1, 122
(1976) (per curiam), it is not necessary to consider or decide
whether a comparable claim might succeed in a state tribunal. If this case were being heard in a state forum, instead
of advancing a separation-of-powers argument, petitioner3
1
would presumably rely on federalism and comity concerns,
as well as the interest in protecting federal officials from
possible local prejudice that underlies the authority to remove certain cases brought against federal officers from a
state to a federal court, see 28 U. S. C. § 1442(a); Mesa v.
California, 489 U. S. 121, 125-126 (1989). Whether those
concerns would present a more compelling case for immunity
is a question that is not before us.
Second, our decision rejecting the immunity claim and
allowing the case to proceed does not require us to confront
the question whether a court may compel the attendance of
the President at any specific time or place. We assume that
the testimony of the President, both for discovery and for
use at trial, may be taken at the White House at a time that
as a proper exercise of judicial discretion, may stay such litigation until
the President leaves office." Our review is confined to these issues. See
this Court's Rule 14.1(a).
' 3 Because the Supremacy Clause makes federal law "the supreme Law
of the Land," Art. VI, cl. 2, any direct control by a state court over the
President, who has principal responsibility to ensure that those laws are
"faithfully executed," Art. II, §3, may implicate concerns that are quite
different from the interbranch separation-of-powers questions addressed
here. Cf., e. g., Hancock v. Train, 426 U. S.167, 178-179 (1976); Mayo v.
United States, 319 U.S.441,445 (1943). See L. Tribe, American Constitutional Law 513 (2d ed. 1988) ("[Ajbsent explicit congressional consent no
state may command federal officials ... to take action in derogation of

their... federal responsibilities").

CLINTON v. JONES

Opinion of the Court

will accommodate his busy schedule, and that, if a trial is
held, there would be no necessity for the President to attend
in person, though he could elect to do So.14
IV
Petitioner's principal submission-that "in all but the most
exceptional cases," Brief for Petitioner i, the Constitution
affords the President temporary immunity from civil damages litigation arising out of events that occurred before he
took office-cannot be sustained on the basis of precedent.
Only three sitting Presidents have been defendantsin civil
litigation involving their actions prior to taking office.
Complaints against Theodore Roosevelt and Harry Truman
had been dismissed before they took office; the dismissals
were affirmed after their respective inaugurations. 5 Two
companion cases arising out of an automobile accident were
filed against John F. Kennedy in 1960 during the Presidential
campaign. 16 After taking office, he unsuccessfully argued
that his status as Commander in Chief gave him a right to a
stay under the Soldiers' and Sailors' Civil Relief Act of 1940,
50 U. S. C. App. §§ 501-525. The motion for a stay was denied by the District Court, and the matter was settled out
of court. 7 Thus, none of those cases sheds any light on the
constitutional issue before us.
The principal rationale for affording certain public servants immunity from suits for money damages arising out of
14 Although

Presidents have responded to written interrogatories, given
depositions, and provided videotaped trial testimony, see infra, at 704705, no sitting President has ever testified, or been ordered to testify, in
open court.
15 See People ex, rel. Hurley v. Roosevelt, 179 N. Y. 544, 71 N. E. 1137
(1904); DeVault v. Truman, 354 Mo. 1193, 194 S. W. 2d 29 (1946).
16See Complaints in Bailey v. Kennedy, No. 757,200, and Hills v. Kennedy, No. 757,201 (Cal. Super. Ct., filed Oct. 27, 1960).
17 See 72 F. 3d, at 1362, n. 10.

Cite as: 520 U. S. 681 (1997)
Opinion of the Court

their official acts is inapplicable to unofficial conduct. In
cases involving prosecutors, legislators, and judges we have
repeatedly explained that the immunity serves the public interest in enabling such officials to perform their designated
functions effectively without fear that a particular decision
may give rise to personal liability. 8 We explained in Ferri
v. Ackerman, 444 U. S. 193 (1979):
"As public servants, the prosecutor and the judge represent the interest of society as a whole. The conduct of
their official duties may adversely affect a wide variety
of different individuals, each of whom may be a potential
source of future controversy. The societal interest in
providing such public officials with the maximum ability
to deal fearlessly and impartially with the public at large
has long been recognized as an acceptable justification
for official immunity. The point of immunity for such
officials is to forestall an atmosphere of intimidation
that would conflict with their resolve to perform their
designated functions in a principled fashion." Id., at
202-204.
That rationale provided the principal basis for our holding
that a former President of the United States was "entitled
to absolute immunity from damages liability predicated on
his official acts," Fitzgerald, 457 U. S., at 749. See id., at
752 (citing Ferriv. Ackerman). Our central concern was to
18 Some of these cases defined the immunities of state and local officials
in actions filed under 42 U. S. C. § 1983. See, e. g., Imbler v. Pachtman,

424 U. S. 409, 422-423 (1976) (prosecutorial immunity); Tenney v. Brandhove, 341 U. S. 367, 376-377 (1951) (legislative immunity); Piersonv. Ray,
386 U. S. 547, 554-555 (1967) (judicial immunity). The rationale underlying our official immunity jurisprudence in cases alleging constitutional
violations brought against federal officials is similar. See, e. g., Butz v.
Economou, 438 U. S. 478, 500-501 (1978).

CLINTON v. JONES
Opinion of the Court

avoid rendering the President "unduly cautious in the discharge of his official duties." 457 U. S., at 752, n. 32.19
This reasoning provides no support for an immunity for
unofficial conduct. As we explained in Fitzgerald, "the
sphere of protected action must be related closely to the immunity's justifying purposes." Id., at 755. Because of the
President's broad responsibilities, we recognized in that case
an immunity from damages claims arising out of official acts
extending to the "outer perimeter of his authority." Id., at
757. But we have never suggested that the President, or
any other official, has an immunity that extends beyond the
scope of any action taken in an official capacity. See id., at
759 (Burger, C. J., concurring) (noting that "a President, like
Members of Congress, judges, prosecutors, or congressional
aides-all having absolute immunity-are not immune for
acts outside official duties"); see also id., at 761, n. 4.
Moreover, when defining the scope of an immunity for acts
clearly taken within an official capacity, we have applied a
functional approach. "Frequently our decisions have held
that an official's absolute immunity should extend only to
acts in performance of particular functions of his office."
Id., at 755. Hence, for example, a judge's absolute immunity
does not extend to actions performed in a purely administra19

Petitioner draws our attention to dicta in Fitzgerald,which he suggests are helpful to his cause. We noted there that "[b]ecause of the singular importance of the President's duties, diversion of his energies by
concern with private lawsuits would raise unique risks to the effective
functioning of government," 457 U. S., at 751, and suggested further that
"[clognizance of... personal vulnerability frequently could distract a President from his public duties," id., at 753. Petitioner argues that in this
aspect the Court's concern was parallel to the issue he suggests is of great
importance in this case, the possibility that a sitting President might be
distracted by the need to participate in litigation during the pendency of
his office. In context, however, it is clear that our dominant concern was
with the diversion of the President's attention during the decisionmaking
process caused by needless worry as to the possibility of damages actions
stemming from any particular official decision. Moreover, Fitzgeralddid
not present the issue raised in this case because that decision involved
claims against a former President.

Cite as: 520 U. S. 681 (1997)
Opinion of the Court

tive capacity. See Forresterv. White, 484 U. S. 219, 229-230
(1988). As our opinions have made clear, immunities are
grounded in "the nature of the function performed, not the
identity of the actor who performed it." Id., at 229.
Petitioner's effort to construct an immunity from suit for
unofficial acts grounded purely in the identity of his office is
unsupported by precedent.
V
We are also unpersuaded by the evidence from the historical record to which petitioner has called our attention. He
points to a comment by Thomas Jefferson protesting the subpoena duces tecum Chief Justice Marshall directed to him in
the Burr trial,20 a statement in the diaries kept by Senator
William Maclay of the first Senate debates, in which thenVice President John Adams and Senator Oliver Ellsworth
are recorded as having said that "the President personally
[is] not ...subject to any process whatever," lest it be "put
...in the power of a common Justice to exercise any Author' 21
ity over him and Stop the Whole Machine of Government,"
and to a quotation from Justice Story's Commentaries on the
Constitution.'
None of these sources sheds much light on
the question at hand.23
oIn Jefferson's view, the subpoena jeopardized the separation of powers
by subjecting the Executive Branch to judicial command. See 10 Works
of Thomas Jefferson 404, n. (P. Ford ed. 1905); Fitzgerald,457 U. S., at 751,
n. 31 (quoting Jefferson's comments).
219 Documentary History of First Federal Congress of the United
States 168 (K. Bowling & H. Veit eds. 1988) (Diary of William Maclay).
22 See 3 J. Story, Commentaries on the Constitution of the United States
§ 1563, pp. 418-419 (1833).
2'Jefferson's argument provides little support for petitioner's position.
As we explain later, the prerogative Jefferson claimed was denied him by
the Chief Justice in the very decision Jefferson was protesting, and this
Court has subsequently reaffirmed that holding. See United States v.
Nixon, 418 U. S.683 (1974). The statements supporting a similar proposition recorded in Senator Maclay's diary are inconclusive of the issue before
us here for the same reason. In addition, this material is hardly proof
of the unequivocal common understanding at the time of the founding.
Immediately after mentioning the positions of Adams and Ellsworth,

CLINTON v. JONES

Opinion of the Court

Respondent, in turn, has called our attention to conflicting
historical evidence. Speaking in favor of the Constitution's
adoption at the Pennsylvania Convention, James Wilsonwho had participated in the Philadelphia Convention at
which the document was drafted-explained that, although
the President "is placed [on] high," "not a single privilege is
annexed to his character; far from being above the laws, he
is amenable to them in his private character as a citizen, and
in his public character by impeachment." 2 J. Elliot, Debates on the Federal Constitution 480 (2d ed. 1863) (emphasis
deleted). This description is consistent with both the doctrine of Presidential immunity as set forth in Fitzgeraldand
rejection of the immunity claim in this case. With respect
to acts taken in his "public character"-that is, official acts-the President may be disciplined principally by impeachment, not by private lawsuits for damages. But he is otherwise subject to the laws for his purely private acts.
In the end, as applied to the particular question before us,
we reach the same conclusion about these historical materials that Justice Jackson described when confronted with an
issue concerning the dimensions of the President's power.
Maclay went on to point out in his diary that he virulently disagreed with
them, concluding that his opponents' view "[slhows clearly how amazingly
fond of the old leven many People are." Diary of Maclay 168.
Finally, Justice Story's comments in his constitutional law treatise provide no substantial support for petitioner's position. Story wrote that
because the President's "incidental powers" must include "the power to
perform [his duties], without any obstruction," he "cannot, therefore, be
liable to arrest, imprisonment, or detention, while he is in the discharge
of the duties of his office; and for this purpose his person must be deemed,
in civil cases at least, to possess an official inviolability." 3 Story § 1563,
at 418-419 (emphasis added). Story said only that "an official inviolability," ibid. (emphasis added), was necessary to preserve the President's
ability to perform the functions of the office; he did not specify the dimensions of the necessary immunity. While we have held that an immunity
from suits grounded on official acts is necessary to serve this purpose, see
Fitzgerald, 457 U. S., at 749, it does not follow that the broad immunity
from all civil damages suits that petitioner seeks is also necessary.

Cite as: 520 U. S. 681 (1997)
Opinion of the Court

"Just what our forefathers did envision, or would have envisioned had they foreseen modern conditions, must be divined
from materials almost as enigmatic as the dreams Joseph
was called upon to interpret for Pharoah. A century and a
half of partisan debate and scholarly speculation yields no
net result but only supplies more or less apt quotations from
respected sources on each side .

. .

. They largely cancel

each other." Youngstown Sheet & Tube Co. v. Sawyer, 343
U. S. 579, 634-635 (1952) (concurring opinion).
VI
Petitioner's strongest argument supporting his immunity
claim is based on the text and structure of the Constitution.
He does not contend that the occupant of the Office of the
President is "above the law," in the sense that his conduct
is entirely immune from judicial scrutiny.24 The President
argues merely for a postponement of the judicial proceedings
that will determine whether he violated any law. His argument is grounded in the character of the office that was
created by Article II of the Constitution, and relies on
separation-of-powers principles that have structured our
constitutional arrangement since the founding.
As a starting premise, petitioner contends that he occupies
a unique office with powers and responsibilities so vast and
important that the public interest demands that he devote
his undivided time and attention to his public duties. He
submits that-given the nature of the office-the doctrine of
separation of powers places limits on the authority of the
For that reason, the argument does not place any reliance on the English ancestry that informs our common-law jurisprudence; he does not
claim the prerogatives of the monarchs who asserted that "[t]he King can
do no wrong." See 1 W. Blackstone, Commentaries *246. Although we
have adopted the related doctrine of sovereign immunity, the common-law
fiction that "[t]he king ... is not only incapable of doing wrong, but even
of thinking wrong," ibid., was rejected at the birth of the Republic. See,
e. g., Nevada v. Hall, 440 U. S. 410, 415, and nn. 7-8 (1979); Langford v.
United States, 101 U. S. 341, 342-343 (1880).
24

CLINTON v. JONES
Opinion of the Court

Federal Judiciary to interfere with the Executive Branch
that would be transgressed by allowing this action to
proceed.
We have no dispute with the initial premise of the argument. Former Presidents, from George Washington to
George Bush, have consistently endorsed petitioner's characterization of the office. 25 After serving his term, Lyndon
Johnson observed: "Of all the 1,886 nights I was President,
there were not many when I got to sleep before 1 or 2 a.m.,
and there were few mornings when I didn't wake up by 6 or
6:30." 26 In 1967, the Twenty-fifth Amendment to the Constitution was adopted to ensure continuity in the performance of the powers and duties of the office; 27 one of the
sponsors of that Amendment stressed the importance of providing that "at all times" there be a President "who has complete control and will be able to perform" those duties. 2 As
Justice Jackson has pointed out, the Presidency concentrates
executive authority "in a single head in whose choice the
whole Nation has a part, making him the focus of public
hopes and expectations. In drama, magnitude and finality
his decisions so far overshadow any others that almost alone
he fills the public eye and ear." Youngstown Sheet & Tube
Co. v. Sawyer, 343 U. S., at 653 (concurring opinion). We
have, in short, long recognized the "unique position in the
constitutional scheme" that this office occupies. Fitzgerald,
2 See, e.g., A. Tourtellot, The Presidents on the Presidency 846-374
(1964) (citing comments of, among others, George Washington, John
Quincy Adams, Benjamin Harrison, Theodore Roosevelt, William Howard
Taft, and Woodrow Wilson); H. Finer, The Presidency: Crisis and Regeneration 35-37 (1960) (citing similar remarks by a number of Presidents, inJames Monroe, James K. Polk, and Harry Truman).
cluding
26
L. Johnson, The Vantage Point 425 (1971).
27The Amendment sets forth, inter alia, an elaborate procedure for
Presidential succession in the event that the Chief Executive becomes incapacitated. See U. S. Const., Amdt. 25, §§ 8-4.
2 111 Cong. Rec. 15595 (1965) (remarks of Sen. Bayh).

Cite as: 520 U. S. 681 (1997)
Opinion of the Court

457 U. S., at 749.29 Thus, while we suspect that even in our
modern era there remains some truth to Chief Justice Marshall's suggestion that the duties of the Presidency are not
entirely "unremitting," United States v. Burr, 25 F. Cas. 30,
34 (No. 14,692d) (CC Va. 1807), we accept the initial premise
of the Executive's argument.
It does not follow, however, that separation-of-powers
principles would be violated by allowing this action to proceed. The doctrine of separation of powers is concerned
with the allocation of official power among the three coequal
branches of our Government. The Framers "built into the
tripartite Federal Government... a self-executing safeguard
against the encroachment or aggrandizement of one branch
at the expense of the other." Buckley v. Valeo, 424 U. S., at
122.31 Thus, for example, the Congress may not exercise the
judicial power to revise final judgments, Plautv. Spendthrift
noted in Fitzgerald:"Article II, § 1, of the Constitution provides
that '[t]he executive Power shall be vested in a President of the United
States .... ' This grant of authority establishes the President as the chief
constitutional officer of the Executive Branch, entrusted with supervisory
and policy responsibilities of utmost discretion and sensitivity. These include the enforcement of federal law-it is the President who is charged
constitutionally to 'take Care that the Laws be faithfully executed'; the
conduct of foreign affairs-a realm in which the Court has recognized that
'[i]t would be intolerable that courts, without the relevant information,
should review and perhaps nullify actions of the Executive taken on information properly held secret'; and management of the Executive Brancha task for which 'imperative reasons requir[e] an unrestricted power [in
the President] to remove the most important of his subordinates in their
most important duties."' 457 U. S., at 749-750 (footnotes omitted).
" See Loving v. United States, 517 U. S.748, 756-757 (1996); Mistretta
v. United States, 488 U. S.361, 382 (1989) ("[C]oncern of encroachment and
21We

aggrandizement . . . has animated our separation-of-powers jurispru-

dence"); The Federalist No. 51, p. 349 (J. Cooke ed. 1961) ("[T]he great
security against a gradual concentration of the several powers in the same
department, consists in giving to those who administer each department
the necessary constitutional means, and personal motives, to resist encroachments of the others").

CLINTON v. JONES
Opinion of the Court

Farm, Inc., 514 U. S. 211 (1995),31 or the executive power to
manage an airport, see Metropolitan Washington Airports
Authority v. Citizensfor Abatement of Aircraft Noise, Inc.,

501 U. S. 252, 276 (1991) (holding that "[i]f the power is executive, the Constitution does not permit an agent of Congress
to exercise it").3 2 See J. W. Hampton, Jr., & Co. v. United
States, 276 U. S. 394, 406 (1928) (Congress may not "invest
itself or its members with either executive power or judicial
power"). Similarly, the President may not exercise the leg-

islative power to authorize the seizure of private property
for public use. Youngstown, 343 U. S., at 588. And, the judicial power to decide cases and controversies does not include the provision of purely advisory opinions to the Executive,

or permit the federal courts to resolve nonjusticiable

questions.

34

31 See also United States v. Klein, 13 Wall. 128, 147 (1872) (noting that
Congress had "inadvertently passed the limit which separates the legislative from the judicial power").
' See also Bowsher v. Synar, 478 U. S. 714, 726 (1986) ("structure of the
Constitution does not permit Congress to execute the laws"). Cf. INS v.
Chadha,462 U. S.919, 958 (1983); Springer v. PhilippineIslands, 277 U. S.
189, 202-203 (1928).
- See United States v. Ferreira,13 How. 40 (1852); Hayburn's Case, 2
Dall. 409 (1792). As we explained in Chicago & Southern Air Lines, Inc.
v. Waterman S. S. Corp., 333 U. S.103, 113 (1948): "This Court early and
wisely determined that it would not give advisory opinions even when
asked by the Chief Executive." More generally, "ve have broadly stated
that 'executive or administrative duties of a nonjudicial nature may not
be imposed on judges holding office under Art. III of the Constitution."'
Morrison v Olson, 487 U. S. 654, 677 (1988) (quoting Buckley v. Valeo,
424 U. S. 1, 128 (1976) (per curiam)). These restrictions on judicial activities "help ensure the independence of the Judicial Branch and to prevent the Judiciary from encroaching into areas reserved for the other
branches." 487 U. S., at 678; see also Mistrettav. United States, 488 U. S.,
at 385.
4 We have long held that the federal courts may not resolve such matters. See, e. g., Luther v. Borden, 7 How. 1 (1849). As we explained in
Nixon v. United States, 506 U. S. 224 (1993): "A controversy is nonjusticiable-i. e., involves a political question-where there is a 'textually demon-

Cite as: 520 U. S. 681 (1997)
Opinion of the Court

Of course the lines between the powers of the three
branches are not always neatly defined. See Mistretta v.
United States, 488 U. S. 361, 380-381 (1989). 35 But in this
case there is no suggestion that the Federal Judiciary is
being asked to perform any function that might in some way
be described as "executive." Respondent is merely asking
the courts to exercise their core Article III jurisdiction to
decide cases and controversies. Whatever the outcome of
this case, there is no possibility that the decision will curtail
the scope of the official powers of the Executive Branch.
The litigation of questions that relate entirely to the unofficial conduct of the individual who happens to be the President poses no perceptible risk of misallocation of either judicial power or executive power.
Rather than arguing that the decision of the case will
produce either an aggrandizement of judicial power or a
narrowing of executive power, petitioner contends that-as
a byproduct of an otherwise traditional exercise of judicial
power-burdens will be placed on the President that will
hamper the performance of his official duties. We have recognized that "[e]ven when a branch does not arrogate power
to itself ... the separation-of-powers doctrine requires that
a branch not impair another in the performance of its constitutional duties." Loving v. United States, 517 U. S. 748, 757
(1996); see also Nixon v. Administrator of General Services,
433 U. S. 425, 443 (1977). As a factual matter, petitioner
contends that this particular case-as well as the potential
strable constitutional commitment of the issue to a coordinate political
department; or a lack of judicially discoverable and manageable standards
for resolving it ...

.'

Baker v. Carr,369 U. S. 186, 217 (1962).

But the

courts must, in the first instance, interpret the text in question and determine whether and to what extent the issue is textually committed. See
ibid.; Powell v. McCormack, 395 U. S. 486, 519 (1969)." Id., at 228.
See also Olson, 487 U. S., at 693-694; Nixon v. Administratorof General Services, 433 U. S. 425, 443 (1977); United States v. Nixon, 418 U. S.
683, 707 (1974); Youngstown Sheet & Tube Co. v. Sawyer, 343 U. S. 579,
635 (1952) (Jackson, J., concurring).

CLINTON v. JONES

Opinion of the Court

additional litigation that an affirmance of the Court of Appeals judgment might spawn-may impose an unacceptable
burden on the President's time and energy, and thereby impair the effective performance of his office.
Petitioner's predictive judgment finds little support in
either history or the relatively narrow compass of the issues
raised in this particular case. As we have already noted, in
the more than 200-year history of the Republic, only three
sitting Presidents have been subjected to suits for their private actions. 36 See supra, at 692. If the past is any indicator, it seems unlikely that a deluge of such litigation will
ever engulf the Presidency. As for the case at hand, if properly managed by the District Court, it appears to us highly
unlikely to occupy any substantial amount of petitioner's
time.
Of greater significance, petitioner errs by presuming that
interactions between the Judicial Branch and the Executive,
even quite burdensome interactions, necessarily rise to the
level of constitutionally forbidden impairment of the Executive's ability to perform its constitutionally mandated functions. "[O]ur... system imposes upon the Branches a degree of overlapping responsibility, a duty of interdependence
as well as independence the absence of which 'would preclude the establishment of a Nation capable of governing itself effectively."' Mistretta,488 U. S., at 381 (quoting Buck36

In Fitzgerald,we were able to discount the lack of historical support
for the proposition that official-capacity actions against the President
posed a serious threat to the office on the ground that a right to sue
federal officials for damages as a result of constitutional violations had
only recently been recognized. See 457 U. S., at 753, n. 33; Bivens v. Six
Unknown Fed. NarcoticsAgents, 403 U. S. 388 (1971). The situation with
respect to suits against the President for actions taken in his private capacity is quite different because such suits may be grounded on legal theories that have always been applicable to any potential defendant. Moreover, because the President has contact with far fewer people in his
private life than in his official capacity, the class of potential plaintiffs is
considerably smaller and the risk of litigation less intense.

Cite as: 520 U. S. 681 (1997)

Opinion of the Court

ley, 424 U. S., at 121). As Madison explained, separation of
powers does not mean that the branches "ought to have no
partial agency in, or no controul over the acts of each
other." 37 The fact that a federal court's exercise of its traditional Article III jurisdiction may significantly burden the
time and attention of the Chief Executive is not sufficient to
establish a violation of the Constitution. Two long-settled
propositions, first announced by Chief Justice Marshall, support that conclusion.
First, we have long held that when the President takes
official action, the Court has the authority to determine
whether he has acted within the law. Perhaps the most dramatic example of such a case is our holding that President
Truman exceeded his constitutional authority when he issued an order directing the Secretary of Commerce to take
possession of and operate most of the Nation's steel mills in
order to avert a national catastrophe. Youngstown Sheet &
Tube Co. v. Sawyer, 343 U. S. 579 (1952). Despite the serious impact of that decision on the ability of the Executive
Branch to accomplish its assigned mission, and the substantial time that the President must necessarily have devoted
to the matter as a result of judicial involvement, we exercised our Article III jurisdiction to decide whether his official
conduct conformed to the law. Our holding was an application of the principle established in Marbury v. Madison, 1
Cranch 137 (1803), that "[i]t is emphatically the province and
duty of the judicial department to say what the law is." Id.,
at 177.
Second, it is also settled that the President is subject to
judicial process in appropriate circumstances. Although
Thomas Jefferson apparently thought otherwise, Chief Justice Marshall, when presiding in the treason trial of Aaron
Burr, ruled that a subpoena duces tecum could be directed
37The Federalist No. 47, pp. 325-326 (J.Cooke ed. 1961) (emphasis in
original). See Mistretta, 488 U. S., at 381; Nixon v. Administrator of
General Services, 433 U. S., at 442, n. 5.

CLINTON v. JONES

Opinion of the Court

to the President. United States v. Burr, 25 F. Cas. 30
(No. 14,692d) (CC Va. 1807). 8 We unequivocally and emphatically endorsed Marshall's position when we held that
President Nixon was obligated to comply with a subpoena
commanding him to produce certain tape recordings of his
conversations with his aides. United States v. Nixon, 418
U. S. 683 (1974). As we explained, "neither the doctrine of
separation of powers, nor the need for confidentiality of
high-level communications, without more, can sustain an absolute, unqualified Presidential privilege of immunity from
judicial process under all circumstances." Id., at 706. 39
Sitting Presidents have responded to court orders to provide testimony and other information with sufficient frequency that such interactions between the Judicial and Executive Branches can scarcely be thought a novelty. President
Monroe responded to written interrogatories, see Rotunda,
Presidents and Ex-Presidents as Witnesses: A Brief Historical Footnote, 1975 U. Ill. L. Forum 1, 5-6, President Nixonas noted above-produced tapes in response to a subpoena
I After the decision was rendered, Jefferson expressed his distress in a
letter to a prosecutor at the trial, noting that "[t]he Constitution enjoins
[the President's] constant agency in the concerns of 6. millions of people."
10 Works of Thomas Jefferson 404, n. (P. Ford ed. 1905). He asked: "Is
the law paramount to this, which calls on him on behalf of a single one?"
Ibid.; see also Fitzgerald,457 U. S., at 751-752, n. 31 (quoting Jefferson's
comments at length). For Chief Justice Marshall, the answer-quite
plainly-was yes.
31 Of course, it does not follow that a court may "'proceed against the
president as against an ordinary individual,"' United States v. Nixon, 418
U. S., at 715 (quoting United States v. Burr, 25 F. Cas. 187, 192 (No. 14,694)
(CC Va. 1807)). Special caution is appropriate if the materials or testimony sought by the court relate to a President's official activities, with
respect to which "[tihe interest in preserving confidentiality is weighty
indeed and entitled to great respect." 418 U. S., at 712. We have made
clear that in a criminal case the powerful interest in the "fair administration of criminal justice" requires that the evidence be given under appropriate circumstances lest the "very integrity of the judicial system" be
eroded. Id., at 709, 711-712.

Cite as: 520 U. S. 681 (1997)

Opinion of the Court

duces tecum, see United States v. Nixon, President Ford
complied with an order to give a deposition in a criminal
trial, United States v. Fromme, 405 F. Supp. 578 (ED Cal.
1975), and President Clinton has twice given videotaped
testimony in criminal proceedings, see United States v. McDougal, 934 F. Supp. 296 (ED Ark. 1996); United States v.
Branscum, No. LRP-CR-96-49 (ED Ark., June 7, 1996).
Moreover, sitting Presidents have also voluntarily complied
with judicial requests for testimony. President Grant gave
a lengthy deposition in a criminal case under such circumstances, 1 R. Rotunda & J. Nowak, Treatise on Constitutional
Law § 7.1 (2d ed. 1992), and President Carter similarly gave
videotaped testimony for use at a criminal trial, id., § 7.1(b)
(Supp. 1997).
In sum, "[i]t is settled law that the separation-of-powers
doctrine does not bar every exercise of jurisdiction over the
President of the United States." Fitzgerald, 457 U. S., at
753-754. If the Judiciary may severely burden the Executive Branch by reviewing the legality of the President's official conduct, and if it may direct appropriate process to the
President himself, it must follow that the federal courts have
power to determine the legality of his unofficial conduct.
The burden on the President's time and energy that is a mere
byproduct of such review surely cannot be considered as
onerous as the direct burden imposed by judicial review and
the occasional invalidation of his official actions. 40 We therefore hold that the doctrine of separation of powers does not
40

There is, no doubt, some truth to Learned Hand's comment that a
lawsuit should be "dread[ed] ... beyond almost anything else short of
sickness and death." 3 Association of the Bar of the City of New York,
Lectures on Legal Topics 105 (1926). We recognize that a President, like
any other official or private citizen, may become distracted or preoccupied
by pending litigation. Presidents and other officials face a variety of
demands on their time, however, some private, some political, and some
as a result of official duty. While such distractions may be vexing to
those subjected to them, they do not ordinarily implicate constitutional
separation-of-powers concerns.

CLINTON v. JONES
Opinion of the Court

require federal courts to stay all private actions against the
President until he leaves office.
The reasons for rejecting such a categorical rule apply as
well to a rule that would require a stay "in all but the most
exceptional cases." Brief for Petitioner i. Indeed, if the
Framers of the Constitution had thought it necessary to protect the President from the burdens of private litigation, we
think it far more likely that they would have adopted a categorical rule than a rule that required the President to litigate the question whether a specific case belonged in the
"exceptional case" subcategory. In all events, the question
whether a specific case should receive exceptional treatment
is more appropriately the subject of the exercise of judicial
discretion than an interpretation of the Constitution. Accordingly, we turn to the question whether the District
Court's decision to stay the trial until after petitioner leaves
office was an abuse of discretion.
VII
The Court of Appeals described the District Court's discretionary decision to stay the trial as the "functional equivalent" of a grant of temporary immunity. 72 F. 3d, at 1361,
n. 9. Concluding that petitioner was not constitutionally
entitled to such an immunity, the court held that it was error
to grant the stay. Ibid. Although we ultimately conclude
that the stay should not have been granted, we think the
issue is more difficult than the opinion of the Court of Appeals suggests.
Strictly speaking the stay was not the functional equivalent of the constitutional immunity that petitioner claimed,
because the District Court ordered discovery to proceed.
Moreover, a stay of either the trial or discovery might be
justified by considerations that do not require the recognition of any constitutional immunity. The District Court has
broad discretion to stay proceedings as an incident to its
power to control its own docket. See, e.g., Landis v. North

Cite as: 520 U. S. 681 (1997)
Opinion of the Court

American Co., 299 U. S. 248, 254 (1936). As we have explained, "[e]specially in cases of extraordinary public mo-

ment, [a plaintiff] may be required to submit to delay not
immoderate in extent and not oppressive in its consequences
if the public welfare or convenience will thereby be promoted." Id., at 256. Although we have rejected the argument that the potential burdens on the President violate
separation-of-powers principles, those burdens are appropriate matters for the District Court to evaluate in its management of the case. The high respect that is owed to the
office of the Chief Executive, though not justifying a rule of
categorical immunity, is a matter that should inform the conduct of the entire proceeding, including the timing and scope
41

of discovery.

Nevertheless, we are persuaded that it was an abuse of
discretion for the District Court to defer the trial until after
the President leaves office. Such a lengthy and categorical
stay takes no account whatever of the respondent's interest
in bringing the case to trial. The complaint was filed within
the statutory limitations period-albeit near the end of that
period-and delaying trial would increase the danger of
41

Although these claims are in fact analytically distinct, the District
Court does not appear to have drawn that distinction. Rather than basing its decision on particular factual findings that might have buttressed
an exercise of discretion, the District Court instead suggested that a discretionary stay was supported by the legal conclusion that such a stay
was required by Fitzgerald. See 869 F. Supp., at 699. We therefore reject petitioner's argument that we lack jurisdiction over respondent's
cross-appeal from the District Court's alternative holding that its decision
was "also permitted," inter alia, "under the equity powers of the Court."
Ibid. The Court of Appeals correctly found that pendent appellate jurisdiction over this issue was proper. See 72 F. 3d, at 1357, n. 4. The District Court's legal ruling that the President was protected by a temporary
immunity from trial-but not discovery-was "inextricably intertwined,"
Swint v. Chambers County Comm'n, 514 U. S. 35, 51 (1995), with its suggestion that a discretionary stay having the same effect might be proper;
indeed, "review of the [latter] decision [is] necessary to ensure meaningful
review of the [former]," ibid.

CLINTON o. JONES
Opinion of the Court

prejudice resulting from the loss of evidence, including the
inability of witnesses to recall specific facts, or the possible
death of a party.
The decision to postpone the trial was, furthermore, premature. The proponent of a stay bears the burden of establishing its need. Id., at 255. In this case, at the stage at
which the District Court made its ruling, there was no way
to assess whether a stay of trial after the completion of discovery would be warranted. Other than the fact that a trial
may consume some of the President's time and attention,
there is nothing in the record to enable a judge to assess
the potential harm that may ensue from scheduling the trial
promptly after discovery is concluded. We think the District Court may have given undue weight to the concern that
a trial might generate unrelated civil actions that could conceivably hamper the President in conducting the duties of
his office. If and when that should occur, the court's discretion would permit it to manage those actions in such fashion
(including deferral of trial) that interference with the President's duties would not occur. But no such impingement
upon the President's conduct of his office was shown here.
VIII
We add a final comment on two matters that are discussed
at length in the briefs: the risk that our decision will generate a large volume of politically motivated harassing and
frivolous litigation, and the danger that national security
concerns might prevent the President from explaining a legitimate need for a continuance.
We are not persuaded that either of these risks is serious.
Most frivolous and vexatious litigation is terminated at the
pleading stage or on summary judgment, with little if any
personal involvement by the defendant. See Fed. Rules Civ.
Proc. 12, 56. Moreover, the availability of sanctions provides a significant deterrent to litigation directed at the
President in his unofficial capacity for purposes of political

Cite as: 520 U. S. 681 (1997)

Opinion of the Court

gain or harassment.4 History indicates that the likelihood
that a significant number of such cases will be filed is remote.
Although scheduling problems may arise, there is no reason
to assume that the district courts will be either unable to
accommodate the President's needs or unfaithful to the tradition-especially in matters involving national securityof giving "the utmost deference to Presidential responsibilities. ' 43 Several Presidents, including petitioner, have
given testimony without jeopardizing the Nation's security.
See supra, at 704-705. In short, we have confidence in the
ability of our federal judges to deal with both of these
concerns.
If Congress deems it appropriate to afford the President
stronger protection, it may respond with appropriate legislation. As petitioner notes in his brief, Congress has enacted
more than one statute providing for the deferral of civil
litigation to accommodate important public interests. Brief
for Petitioner 34-36. See, e. g., 11 U. S. C. § 362 (litigation
against debtor stayed upon filing of bankruptcy petition);
Soldiers' and Sailors' Civil Relief Act of 1940, 50 U. S. C. App.
§§ 501-525 (provisions governing, inter alia, tolling or stay
of civil claims by or against military personnel during course
of active duty). If the Constitution embodied the rule that
42

See, e. g., Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. 11; 28 U. S. C. § 1927; Chambers v.
NASCO, Inc., 501 U. S. 32, 50 (1991) (noting that "if in the informed discre-

tion of the court, neither the statute nor the Rules are up to the task,
the court may safely rely on its inherent power" in imposing appropriate
sanctions). Those sanctions may be set at a level "sufficient to deter repetition of such conduct or comparable conduct by others similarly situated."
Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. 11(c)(2). As Rule 11 indicates, sanctions may be appropriate where a claim is "presented for any improper purpose, such as
to harass," including any claim based on "allegations and other factual

contentions [lacking] evidentiary support" or unlikely to prove wellgrounded after reasonable investigation. Rules 11(b)(1), (3).
43United States v. Nixon, 418 U. S., at 710-711; see also Fitzgerald,457

U. S., at 753 ("Courts traditionally have recognized the President's constitutional responsibilities and status as factors counseling judicial deference
and restraint").

CLINTON v. JONES
BREYER, J.,

concurring in judgment

the President advocates, Congress, of course, could not repeal it. But our holding today raises no barrier to a statutory response to these concerns.
The Federal District Court has jurisdiction to decide this
case. Like every other citizen who properly invokes that
jurisdiction, respondent has a right to an orderly disposition
of her claims. Accordingly, the judgment of the Court of
Appeals is affirmed.
It is so ordered.

concurring in the judgment.
I agree with the majority that the Constitution does not
automatically grant the President an immunity from civil
lawsuits based upon his private conduct. Nor does the "docJUSTICE BREYER,

trine of separation of powers ...

require federal courts to

stay" virtually "all private actions against the President
until he leaves office." Ante, at 705-706. Rather, as the
Court of Appeals stated, the President cannot simply rest
upon the claim that a private civil lawsuit for damages will
"interfere with the constitutionally assigned duties of the
Executive Branch... without detailing any specific responsibilities or explaining how or the degree to which they are
affected by the suit." 72 F. 3d 1354, 1361 (CA8 1996). To
obtain a postponement the President must "bea[r] the burden
of establishing its need." Ante, at 708.
In my view, however, once the President sets forth and
explains a conflict between judicial proceeding and public duties, the matter changes. At that point, the Constitution
permits a judge to schedule a trial in an ordinary civil damages action (where postponement normally is possible without overwhelming damage to a plaintiff) only within the constraints of a constitutional principle-a principle that forbids
a federal judge in such a case to interfere with the President's discharge of his public duties. I have no doubt that
the Constitution contains such a principle applicable to civil
suits, based upon Article II's vesting of the entire "executive
Power" in a single individual, implemented through the Con-

Cite as: 520 U. S. 681 (1997)
BREYER, J., concurring in judgment

stitution's structural separation of powers, and revealed both
by history and case precedent.
I recognize that this case does not require us now to apply
the principle specifically, thereby delineating its contours;
nor need we now decide whether lower courts are to apply
it directly or categorically through the use of presumptions
or rules of administration. Yet I fear that to disregard it
now may appear to deny it. I also fear that the majority's
description of the relevant precedents de-emphasizes the extent to which they support a principle of the President's independent authority to control his own time and energy, see,
e. g., ante, at 693, 694 (describing the "central concern" of
Nixon v. Fitzgerald,457 U. S. 731 (1982), as "to avoid rendering the President 'unduly cautious' "); ante, at 695, 696, and
n. 23 (describing statements by Story, Jefferson, Adams, and
Ellsworth as providing "little" or "no substantial support"
for the President's position). Further, if the majority is
wrong in predicting the future infrequency of private civil
litigation against sitting Presidents, ante, at 702, acknowledgment and future delineation of the constitutional principle will prove a practically necessary institutional safeguard.
For these reasons, I think it important to explain how the
Constitution's text, history, and precedent support this principle of judicial noninterference with Presidential functions
in ordinary civil damages actions.
I
The Constitution states that the "executive Power shall
be vested in a President." Art. II, § 1. This constitutional
delegation means that a sitting President is unusually busy,
that his activities have an unusually important impact upon
the lives of others, and that his conduct embodies an authority bestowed by the entire American electorate. He (along
with his constitutionally subordinate Vice President) is the
only official for whom the entire Nation votes, and is the only
elected officer to represent the entire Nation both domestically and abroad.

CLINTON v. JONES
BREYER, J.,

concurring in judgment

This constitutional delegation means still more. Article II makes a single President responsible for the actions
of the Executive Branch in much the same way that the entire Congress is responsible for the actions of the Legislative Branch, or the entire Judiciary for those of the Judicial Branch. It thereby creates a constitutional equivalence
between a single President, on the one hand, and many legislators, or judges, on the other.
The Founders created this equivalence by consciously deciding to vest Executive authority in one person rather than
several. They did so in order to focus, rather than to
spread, Executive responsibility thereby facilitating accountability. They also sought to encourage energetic, vigorous,
decisive, and speedy execution of the laws by placing in the
hands of a single, constitutionally indispensable, individual
the ultimate authority that, in respect to the other branches,
the Constitution divides among many. Compare U. S.
Const., Art. II, § 1 (vesting power in "a President"), with
U. S. Const., Art. I, § 1 (vesting power in "a Congress" that
"consist[s] of a Senate and House of Representatives"), and
U.S. Const., Art. III, § 1 (vesting power in a "supreme
Court" and "inferior Courts").
The authority explaining the nature and importance of this
decision is legion. See, e. g., J. Locke, Second Treatise of
Civil Government § 144 (J.Gough ed. 1947) (desirability of a
perpetual Executive); 1 W. Blackstone, Commentaries *242*243 (need for single Executive); The Federalist No. 70,
p. 423 (C. Rossiter ed. 1961) (A. Hamilton) (Executive "[e]nergy" needed for security, "steady administration of the
laws," "protection of property," "justice," and protection of
"liberty"); Ellsworth, The Landholder, VI, in Essays on the
Constitution 161, 163 (P. Ford ed. 1892) ("supreme executive
should be one person, and unfettered otherwise than by the
laws he is to execute"); Morrison v. Olson, 487 U. S. 654,
698-699 (1988) (SCALIA, J., dissenting) (describing history);

id., at 705 (describing textual basis); id., at 729 (describing

Cite as: 520 U. S. 681 (1997)
BREYER, J., concurring in judgment

policy arguments). See also The Federalist No. 71, at 431
(A. Hamilton); P. Kurland, Watergate and the Constitution
135 (1978) (President is "sole indispensable man in government" and "should not be called" from his duties "at the instance of any other ... branch of government"); Calabresi,
Some Normative Arguments for the Unitary Executive, 48
Ark. L. Rev. 23, 37-47 (1995). Cf. T. Roosevelt, An Autobiography 372 (1913).
For present purposes, this constitutional structure means
that the President is not like Congress, for Congress can
function as if it were whole, even when up to half of its members are absent, see U. S. Const., Art. I, § 5, cl. 1. It means
that the President is not like the Judiciary, for judges often
can designate other judges, e. g., from other judicial circuits,
to sit even should an entire court be detained by personal
litigation. It means that, unlike Congress, which is regularly out of session, U. S. Const., Art. I, §§ 4, 5, 7, the President never adjourns.
More importantly, these constitutional objectives explain
why a President, though able to delegate duties to others,
cannot delegate ultimate responsibility or the active obligation to supervise that goes with it. And the related constitutional equivalence between President, Congress, and the
Judiciary means that judicial scheduling orders in a private
civil case must not only take reasonable account of, say, a
particularly busy schedule, or a job on which others critically
depend, or an underlying electoral mandate. They must
also reflect the fact that interference with a President's ability to carry out his public responsibilities is constitutionally
equivalent to interference with the ability of the entirety
of Congress, or the Judicial Branch, to carry out its public
obligations.
II
The leading case regarding Presidential immunity from
suit is Nixon v. Fitzgerald. Before discussing Fitzgerald,it
is helpful to understand the historical precedent on which it

CLINTON v. JONES
BREYER, J.,

concurring in judgment

relies. While later events have called into question some of
the more extreme views on Presidential immunity, the essence of the constitutional principle remains true today.
The historical sources, while not in themselves fully determinative, in conjunction with this Court's precedent inform my
judgment that the Constitution protects the President from
judicial orders in private civil cases to the extent that those
orders could significantly interfere with his efforts to carry
out his ongoing public responsibilities.
A
Three of the historical sources this Court cited in Fitzgerald, 457 U.S., at 749, 750-752, n. 31-a commentary by
Joseph Story, an argument attributed to John Adams and
Oliver Ellsworth, and a letter written by Thomas Jeffersoneach make clear that this is so.
First, Joseph Story wrote in his Commentaries:
"There are... incidental powers, belonging to the executive department, which are necessarily implied from
the nature of the functions, which are confided to it.
Among those, must necessarily be included the power to
perform them, without any obstruction or impediment
whatsoever. The president cannot, therefore, be liable
to arrest, imprisonment, or detention, while he is in
the discharge of the duties of his office; andfor this purpose his person must be deemed, in civil cases at least,
to possess an official inviolability." 3 J. Story, Commentaries on the Constitution of the United States
§ 1563, pp. 418-419 (1833) (emphasis added), quoted in
Fitzgerald,supra, at 749.
As interpreted by this Court in Nixon v. Fitzgerald, the
words "for this purpose" would seem to refer to the President's need for "official inviolability" in order to "perform"
the duties of his office without "obstruction or impediment."
As so read, Story's commentary does not explicitly define the

Cite as: 520 U. S. 681 (1997)
BREYER, J.,

concurring in judgment

contours of "official inviolability."

But it does suggest that

the "inviolability" is timebound ("while ... in the discharge

of the duties of his office"); that it applies in private lawsuits
(for it attaches to the President's "person" in "civil cases");
and that it is functional ("necessarily implied from the nature
of the [President's] functions").
Since Fitzgeralddid not involve a physical constraint, the
Court's reliance upon Justice Story's commentary makes
clear, in the Court's view, that the commentary does not limit
the scope of "inviolability" to an immunity from a physical
imprisonment, physical detention, or physical "arrest"-a
now abandoned procedure that permitted the arrest of certain civil case defendants (e. g., those threatened by bankruptcy) during a civil proceeding.
I would therefore read Story's commentary to mean what
it says, namely, that Article II implicitly grants an "official
inviolability" to the President "while he is in the discharge
of the duties of his office," and that this inviolability must be
broad enough to permit him "to perform" his official duties
without "obstruction or impediment." As this Court has
previously held, the Constitution may grant this kind of protection implicitly; it need not do so explicitly. See Fitzgerald, supra, at 750, n. 31; United States v. Nixon, 418 U. S.
683, 705-706, n. 16 (1974); cf. McCulloch v. Maryland, 4
Wheat. 316, 406 (1819).
Second, during the first Congress, then-Vice President
John Adams and then-Senator Oliver Ellsworth expressed a
view of an applicable immunity far broader than any currently asserted. Speaking of a sitting President, they said
that the "'President, personally, was not the subject to any
process whatever ....

For [that] would ...

put it in the

power of a common justice to exercise any authority over
him and stop the whole machine of Government."' 457
U. S., at 751, n. 31 (quoting Journal of William Maclay 167
(E. Maclay ed. 1890) (Sept. 26 journal entry reporting exchange between Sen. Maclay, Adams, and Ellsworth)). They

CLINTON v. JONES
BREYER, J.,

concurring in judgment

included in their claim a kind of immunity from criminal,
as well as civil, process. They responded to a counterargument-that the President "was not above the laws," and
would have to be arrested if guilty of crimes-by stating
that the President would first have to be impeached, and
could then be prosecuted. 9 Documentary History of First
Federal Congress of United States 168 (K. Bowling & H. Veit
eds. 1988) (Diary of William Maclay). This Court's rejection
of Adams' and Ellsworth's views in the context of criminal
proceedings, see ante, at 703-704, does not deprive those
views of authority here. See Fitzgerald,supra, at 751-752,
n. 31. Nor does the fact that Senator William Maclay, who
reported the views of Adams and Ellsworth, "went on to
point out in his diary that he virulently disagreed with
them." Ante, at 696, n. 23. Maclay, unlike Adams and Ellsworth, was not an important political figure at the time of
the constitutional debates. See Diary of William Maclay
xi-xiii.
Third, in 1807, a sitting President, Thomas Jefferson, during a dispute about whether the federal courts could subpoena his presence in a criminal case, wrote the following to
United States Attorney George Hay:
"The leading principle of our Constitution is the independence of the Legislature, executive and judiciary of
each other, and none are more jealous of this than the
judiciary. But would the executive be independent of
the judiciary, if he were subject to the commands of the
latter, & to imprisonment for disobedience; if the several
courts could bandy him from pillar to post, keep him
constantly trudging from north to south & east to west,
and withdraw him entirely from his constitutional duties?" 10 Works of Thomas Jefferson 404, n. (P. Ford
ed. 1905) (letter of June 20, 1807, from President Thomas
Jefferson to United States Attorney George Hay),
quoted in Fitzgerald,supra, at 751, n. 31.

Cite as: 520 U. S. 681 (1997)
BREYER, J.,

concurring in judgment

Three days earlier Jefferson had written to the same
correspondent:
"To comply with such calls would leave the nation without an executive branch, whose agency, nevertheless, is
understood to be so constantly necessary, that it is the
sole branch which the constitution requires to be always
in function. It could not then mean that it should be
withdrawn from its station by any co-ordinate authority." 10 Works of Thomas Jefferson, at 401 (letter of
June 17, 1807, from Thomas Jefferson to George Hay).
Jefferson, like Adams and Ellsworth, argued strongly for an
immunity from both criminal and civil judicial process-an
immunity greater in scope than any immunity, or any special
scheduling factor, now at issue in the civil case before us.
The significance of his views for present purposes lies in his
conviction that the Constitution protected a sitting President
from litigation that would "withdraw" a President from his
current "constitutional duties." That concern may not have
applied to Mr. Fitzgerald's 1982 case against a former President, but it is at issue in the current litigation.
Precedent that suggests to the contrary-that the Constitution does not offer a sitting President significant protections from potentially distracting civil litigation-consists of
the following: (1) In several instances sitting Presidents have
given depositions or testified at criminal trials, and (2) this
Court has twice authorized the enforcement of subpoenas
seeking documents from a sitting President for use in a criminal case.
I agree with the majority that these precedents reject any
absolute Presidential immunity from all court process. But
they do not cast doubt upon Justice Story's basic conclusion
that "in civil cases," a sitting President "possess[es] an official inviolability" as necessary to permit him to "perform"
the duties of his office without "obstruction or impediment."

CLINTON v. JONES
BREYER, J., concurring in judgment

The first set of precedents tells us little about what the
Constitution commands, for they amount to voluntary actions on the part of a sitting President. The second set of
precedents amounts to a search for documents, rather than
a direct call upon Presidential time. More important, both
sets of precedents involve criminal proceedings in which the
President participated as a witness. Criminal proceedings,
unlike private civil proceedings, are public acts initiated and
controlled by the Executive Branch; see United States v.
Nixon, 418 U. S., at 693-696; they are not normally subject
to postponement, see U. S. Const., Amdt. 6; and ordinarily
they put at risk, not a private citizen's hope for monetary
compensation, but a private citizen's freedom from enforced
confinement, 418 U. S., at 711-712, and n. 19; Fitzgerald,457
U. S., at 754, n. 37. See also id., at 758, n. 41. Nor is it
normally possible in a criminal case, unlike many civil cases,
to provide the plaintiff with interest to compensate for
scheduling delay. See, e. g., Winter v. Cerro Gordo County
Conservation Bd., 925 F. 2d 1069, 1073 (CA8 1991); Foley v.
Lowell, 948 F. 2d 10, 17-18 (CA1 1991); Wooten v. McClendon, 272 Ark. 61, 62-63, 612 S. W. 2d 105, 106 (1981).
The remaining precedent to which the majority refers does
not seem relevant in this case. That precedent, Youngstown
Sheet & Tube Co. v. Sawyer, 343 U. S. 579, 585 (1952), concerns official action. And any Presidential time spent dealing with, or action taken in response to, that kind of case is
part of a President's official duties. Hence court review in
such circumstances could not interfere with, or distract from,
official duties. Insofar as a court orders a President, in any
such a proceeding, to act or to refrain from action, it defines,
or determines, or clarifies the legal scope of an official duty.
By definition (if the order itself is lawful), it cannot impede,
or obstruct, or interfere with the President's basic taskthe lawful exercise of his Executive authority. Indeed, if
constitutional principles counsel caution when judges consider an order that directly requires the President properly

Cite as: 520 U. S. 681 (1997)
BREYER, J.,

concurring in judgment

to carry out his official duties, see Franklin v. Massachusetts, 505 U. S. 788, 827 (1992) (SCALIA, J., concurring in part
and concurring in judgment) (describing the "apparently unbroken historical tradition ... implicit in the separation of
powers" that a President may not be ordered by the Judiciary to perform particular Executive acts); id., at 802-803
(plurality opinion of O'CONNOR, J.), so much the more must
those principles counsel caution when such an order threatens to interfere with the President's properly carrying out
those duties.
B
Case law, particularly, Nixon v. Fitzgerald,strongly supports the principle that judges hearing a private civil damages action against a sitting President may not issue orders
that could significantly distract a President from his official
duties. In Fitzgerald,the Court held that former President
Nixon was absolutely immune from civil damages lawsuits
based upon any conduct within the "outer perimeter" of
his official responsibilities. 457 U. S., at 756. The holding
rested upon six determinations that are relevant here.
First, the Court found that the Constitution assigns the
President singularly important duties (thus warranting
an "absolute," rather than a "qualified," immunity). Id.,
at 750-751. Second, the Court held that "recognition of
immunity" does not require a "specific textual basis" in the
Constitution. Id., at 750, n. 31. Third, although physical
constraint of the President was not at issue, the Court nevertheless considered Justice Story's constitutional analysis, discussed supra, at 714-715, "persuasive." 457 U. S., at 749.
Fourth, the Court distinguished contrary precedent on the
ground that it involved criminal, not civil, proceedings. Id.,
at 754, and n. 37. Fifth, the Court's concerns encompassed
the fact that "the sheer prominence of the President's office"
could make him "an easily identifiable target for suits for
civil damages." Id., at 752-753. Sixth, and most important, the Court rested its conclusion in important part upon

CLINTON v. JONES
BREYER, J., concurring in judgment

the fact that civil lawsuits "could distract a President from
his public duties, to the detriment of not only the President
and his office but also the Nation that the Presidency was
designed to serve." Id., at 753.
The majority argues that this critical, last-mentioned, feature of the case is dicta. Ante, at 694, n. 19. In the majority's view, since the defendant was a former President, the
lawsuit could not have distractedhim from his official duties;
hence the case must rest entirely upon an alternative concern, namely, that a President's fear of civil lawsuits based
upon his official duties could distort his official decisionmaking. The majority, however, overlooks the fact that
Fitzgerald set forth a single immunity (an absolute immunity) applicable both to sitting and former Presidents. Its
reasoning focused upon both. Its key paragraph, explaining
why the President enjoys an absolute immunity rather than
a qualified immunity, contains seven sentences, four of which
focus primarily upon time and energy distractionand three
of which focus primarily upon official decision distortion.
Indeed, that key paragraph begins by stating:
"Because of the singular importance of the President's
duties, diversion of his energies by concern with private
lawsuits would raise unique risks to the effective functioning of government." 457 U. S., at 751.
Moreover, the Court, in numerous other cases, has found
the problem of time and energy distraction a critically important consideration militating in favor of a grant of immunity.
See, e. g., Harlow v. Fitzgerald,457 U. S. 800, 817-818 (1982)
(qualified immunity for Presidential assistants based in part
on "costs of trial" and "burdens of broad-reaching discovery"
that are "peculiarly disruptive of effective government");
Imbler v. Pachtman, 424 U. S. 409, 423 (1976) (absolute immunity of prosecutors based in part upon concern about "deflection of the prosecutor's energies from his public duties");
Tenney v. Brandhove, 341 U. S. 367, 377 (1951) (absolute im-

Cite as: 520 U. S. 681 (1997)
BREYER,

J., concurring in judgment

munity for legislators avoids danger they will "be subjected
to the cost and inconvenience and distractions of a trial").
Indeed, cases that provide public officials, not with immunity,
but with special protective procedures such as interlocutory
appeals, rest entirely upon a "time and energy distraction"
rationale. See Behrens v. Pelletier, 516 U. S.299, 306, 308
(1996) ("[G]overnment official['s] right.., to avoid standing
trial [and] to avoid the burdens of such pretrial matters as
discovery" are sufficient to support an immediate appeal
from "denial of a claim of qualified immunity" (citations and
internal quotation marks omitted)); Mitchell v. Forsyth, 472
U. S. 511, 526 (1985) ("[E]ntitlement not to stand trial or
face the other burdens of litigation ...is effectively lost if a
case is erroneously permitted to go to trial" (citing Harlow,
supra, at 818)).
It is not surprising that the Court's immunity-related case
law should rely on both distraction and distortion, for the
ultimate rationale underlying those cases embodies both concerns. See Pierson v. Ray, 386 U. S.547, 554 (1967) (absolute judicial immunity is needed because of "burden" of litigation, which leads to "intimidation"); Bradley v. Fisher,13
Wall. 335, 349 (1872) (without absolute immunity a judge's
"office [would] be degraded and his usefulness destroyed,"
and he would be forced to shoulder "burden" of keeping full
records for use in defending against suits). The cases ultimately turn on an assessment of the threat that a civil damages lawsuit poses to a public official's ability to perform his
job properly. And, whether they provide an absolute immunity, a qualified immunity, or merely a special procedure,
they ultimately balance consequent potential public harm
against private need. Distraction and distortion are equally
important ingredients of that potential public harm. Indeed, a lawsuit that significantly distracts an official from his
public duties can distort the content of a public decision just
as can a threat of potential future liability. If the latter concern can justify an "absolute" immunity in the case of a Pres-

CLINTON v. JONES
BREYER, J., concurring in judgment

ident no longer in office, where distraction is no longer a
consideration, so can the former justify, not immunity, but a
postponement, in the case of a sitting President.
III
The majority points to the fact that private plaintiffs have
brought civil damages lawsuits against a sitting President
only three times in our Nation's history; and it relies upon
the threat of sanctions to discourage, and "the court's discretion" to manage, such actions so that "interference with the
President's duties would not occur." Ante, at 708. I am
less sanguine. Since 1960, when the last such suit was filed,
the number of civil lawsuits filed annually in Federal District
Courts has increased from under 60,000 to about 240,000, see
Administrative Office of the United States Courts, Statistical
Tables for the Federal Judiciary 27 (1995); Annual Report of
the Director of the Administrative Office of the United
States Courts-1960, p. 224 (1961); the number of federal district judges has increased from 233 to about 650, see Administrative Office of United States Courts, Judicial Business of
United States Courts 7 (1994); Annual Report of the Director
of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts1960, supra, at 205; the time and expense associated with
both discovery and trial have increased, see, e.g., Bell,
Varner, & Gottschalk, Automatic Disclosure in DiscoveryThe Rush To Reform, 27 Ga. L. Rev. 1, 9-11 (1992); see also
S. Rep. No. 101-416, p. 1 (1990); Judicial Improvements Act
of 1990, Pub. L. 101-650, 104 Stat. 5089; an increasingly complex economy has led to increasingly complex sets of statutes, rules, and regulations that often create potential liability, with or without fault. And this Court has now made
clear that such lawsuits may proceed against a sitting President. The consequence, as the Court warned in Fitzgerald,
is that a sitting President, given "the visibility of his office,"
could well become "an easily identifiable target for suits for
civil damages," 457 U. S., at 753. The threat of sanctions

Cite as: 520 U. S. 681 (1997)
BREYER, J., concurring in judgment

could well discourage much unneeded litigation, ante, at 708709, but some lawsuits (including highly intricate and complicated ones) could resist ready evaluation and disposition; and
individual district court procedural rulings could pose a significant threat to the President's official functions.
I concede the possibility that district courts, supervised by
the Courts of Appeals and perhaps this Court, might prove
able to manage private civil damages actions against sitting
Presidents without significantly interfering with the discharge of Presidential duties-at least if they manage those
actions with the constitutional problem in mind. Nonetheless, predicting the future is difficult, and I am skeptical.
Should the majority's optimism turn out to be misplaced,
then, in my view, courts will have to develop administrative
rules applicable to such cases (including postponement rules
of the sort at issue in this case) in order to implement the
basic constitutional directive. A Constitution that separates
powers in order to prevent one branch of Government from
significantly threatening the workings of another could not
grant a single judge more than a very limited power to
second-guess a President's reasonable determination (announced in open court) of his scheduling needs, nor could it
permit the issuance of a trial scheduling order that would significantly interfere with the President's discharge of his duties-in a private civil damages action the trial of which might
be postponed without the plaintiff suffering enormous harm.
As Madison pointed out in The Federalist No. 51: "The great
security against a gradual concentration of the several powers in the same department consists in giving to those who
administer each department the necessary constitutional
means and personal motives to resist encroachments of the
others. The provision for defense must in this, as in all
other cases, be made commensurateto the danger of attack."
Id., at 321-322 (emphasis added). I agree with the majority's determination that a constitutional defense must await
a more specific showing of need; I do not agree with what I

CLINTON v. JONES
BREYER, J.,

concurting in judgment

believe to be an understatement of the "danger." And I believe that ordinary case-management principles are unlikely
to prove sufficient to deal with private civil lawsuits for damages unless supplemented with a constitutionally based requirement that district courts schedule proceedings so as to
avoid significant interference with the President's ongoing
discharge of his official responsibilities.
IV
This case is a private action for civil damages in which, as
the District Court here found, it is possible to preserve evidence and in which later payment of interest can compensate
for delay. The District Court in this case determined that
the Constitution required the postponement of trial during
the sitting President's term. It may well be that the trial
of this case cannot take place without significantly interfering with the President's ability to carry out his official duties.
Yet, I agree with the majority that there is no automatic
temporary immunity and that the President should have to
provide the District Court with a reasoned explanation of
why the immunity is needed; and I also agree that, in the
absence of that explanation, the court's postponement of the
trial date was premature. For those reasons, I concur in
the result.

