UNITED STATES V. RINDSKOPF.

[SLIP. Ct.

writing sued on and made part of the record, and is not admitted by the demurrer. Dillon v. Barnard, 21 Wall. 430
Binz v. Tgler, 79 111. 248.
The provision of the statute of Illinois (ed. 1877, title Practice, sects. 34, 3(3) prohibiting defendants sued on written
instruments from denying their signatures, except under plea
verified by affidavit, has no application where the fact of
signature is admitted by demurrer, and the only issue is one
of law.
Judgment affirmed.

UNITED STATES V.

RINDSKOPF.

1. The court condemns the practice of setting out in the bill of exceptions the
entire charge of the court below, instead of confining it to such parts as are
the subject of exception.
2. Suit on a distiller's bond, the breach assigned being his non-payment of the
tax due on a specified number of gallons of spirits alleged to have been
distilled at his distillery between certain dates. Held, that prima.faie proof
of his liability is furnished by the assessment of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue ; but it may be overcome by evidence showing either that the
tax was paid, or that the whole or a part of the spirits in question was not
distilled, within the period mentioned.
3. The point in controversy being as to the quantity of spirits produced upon
which the tax was not paid, the court below erred in charging tile jury
that the assessment must staud as an entirety or be wholly rejected.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Wisconsin.
This is an action against Lewis Rindskopf, the principal, and
Raphael Reichmann and Elias Rindskopf, sureties, on a distiller's bond for $7,000, executed March 23, 1875. The principal was then engaged in the business of a distiller witlrni, the
first collection district of Wisconsin. The condition of the bond
provided, among other things, that he should " comply with all
the provisions of law in relation to the duties and business of
distillers." The complaint alleges as a breach of these conditions the non-payment of the tax due on 3,640 gallons of spirits
distilled by him at his distillery between the 25th of April and
the 1st of May, 1875, amounting to $3,276. It also alleges
that the Commissioner of Internal Revenue assessed the tax

Oct. 1881.]

UNITED STATES V. RINDSIOPF.

against him on the special list for October of that year; and
that the assessment was returned to the collector of the district,
who demanded payment of the tax, which was refused.
The answer contained a general denial, and also set up as
a special defence that on the 1st of November, 1875, the Commissioner of Internal Revenue made an assessment upon the
distiller to the amount of $7,117.70, for spirits alleged to have
been manufactured at his distillery in the month of April,
1875, and removed therefrom without payment of the tax
thereon, and with intent to defraud the government ; that this
assessment was returned to the collector of the district, who
demanded payment of the tax; that afterwards, in May, 1876,
the plaintiffs brought a suit in equity to enforce its collection ;
that the distiller was served with process and answered the
complaint, averring that the assessment was illegal and void;
that that suit was still pending ; and that the assessment mentioned in the complaint here was upon the same spirits for
which the above assessment of $7,117 was made.
A supplemental and amended answer repeated these allegations, and added that the equity case was heard in April,
1879, when the assessment was adjudged to be illegal, and the
bill dismissed. The answer pleads the decree entered in bar
of the present action.
The case was tried at the January Term of the court in 1880.
There is no statement of the evidence or of its purport in the
record, except as appears in the charge given to the jury. The
bill of exceptions states that the plaintiffs offered evidence
tending to maintain the issues on their part, " as is generally
stated in the charge of the court hereinafter contained; " and
that the defendants offered evidence tending to maintain the
issues on their part, " as is in like manner stated in the charge
of the court." Then follows the charge at length, at the end
of which particular parts of it are indicated to which exceptions were taken, and among others the following : " To all that
portion of said charge which defines and sets forth the legal
force and effect of an assessment, and the means whereby it
may be attacked and overcome; to all of that portion of said
charge which touches the entirety of the assessment and affirms
that the plaintiffs must recover the exact amount of the assess-

UNITED

STATES

v. RINDSKOP.

[u.
[Sup. Ct.

ment or nothing." That portion of the charge to which reference is thus made is found in different passages, which are as
follows: After speaking of the power of the Commissioner of
Internal Revenue to make an assessment, the court said:"When, therefore, an assessment has been made by this
officer, it is to be presumed, until such presumption is overcome
by proof to the contrary, that it was made upon sufficient evidence, and it is not necessary that the evidence upon which
the commissioner acted should be laid before the jury. In other
words, the jury have a right to presume until the contrary appears that when the commissioner made the assessment in question he had before him proofs which were sufficient to satisfy
a just and fair-minded person that such assessment ought to be
made ; and before the jury can disregard the assessment they
should be convinced by the evidence that the commissioner
acted in making it in a manner unjust to the defendant distiller, and unwarranted by the actual facts. Such an assessment is not, however, conclusive evidence of the liability of
the distiller; it is open to attack ; it is prima facde proof only
of such liability, and prima facie evidence is such evidence as
is sufficient when unassailed to establish a given fact, and it
remains sufficient for that purpose until it is rebutted and
Upon introduction of the assessment in eviovercome ....
dence a prima facie case of liability on the part of the defendant Lewis Rindskopf is made. The burden of proof then falls
upon the defendants, who may proceed to introduce evidence
to overcome the assessment by showing that the defendant
Lewis Rindskopf did not, during the period covered by the
assessment, manufacture and remove from his distillery spirits
upon which the tax was not paid.
"And upon it being so made to appear, the burden of proof
then shifts to the plaintiffs, and it then becomes incumbent on
the plaintiffs to maintain and establish the correctness of the
The
assessment by sufficient and competent evidence . ..
order of proof which has been maintained upon the trial is in
consonance with the rules of law applicable to such a case,
which have just been stated."
And, after commenting upon the general character of the
evidence in the case, the court further said : -

Oct. 1881.]

UNITED

STATES V. RINDSkOPF.

"In passing upon the validity of this assessment, and in determining the question of liability on account of it, it is to be
taken and considered in its entirety: Either the government
is entitled to recover the exact amount of the assessment,
namely, the sum of $3,276, or it is not entitled to recover any
sum whatever. The court and jury, upon an investigation of
the justness and validity of the assessment, have Ao right to
exercise the powers committed to the commissioner, but our
right is limited to an inquiry into the question as to whether
the assessment which has been made embraces or represents a
just and valid demand against the defendant distiller, and, as
the result of such investigation, it must either wholly stand or
wholly fall."
In support of the special defence, founded upon the decree in
the equity case, that the assessment of November 1 was invalid,
the defendants produced the record of the assessment and of the
suit, which was admitted in evidence against the objection of
the attorney of the government, - the court stating that proper
instructions would be given to the jury in relation to the same.
No proof was offered that the assessment covered the spirits
for which the first assessment was ma.de ; and the court instructed the jury that without such proof the record would not
be a bar to the prosecution of this action.
The jury found for the defendants, and upon their verdict
judgment was entered ; to review which the case is brought to
this court on writ of error.
The Solicitor-General for the United States.
Mr. Jedd P. C. ottrill and Mr. Charles E. Mayer for the
defendants in error.
MI. JTSTICE FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The bill of exceptions in this case sets forth the charge of
the court below in full, in disregard of our frequent condemnation of this practice. Only the parts to which the exceptions
relate should have been given ; all else is unnecessary, and produces only inconvenience. We repeat of this practice what
we said of another practice not uncommon, and equally objectionable, - that of inserting the entire evidence in the record:

UNITED STATES

V. RINDSKOPF.

[Sup. Ct.

"If counsel will not heed our admonitions upon this subject, so
frequently expressed by us, the judges of the courts below, to
whom the bills are presented, should withhold their signatures
until the bills are prepared in proper form, freed from all matter not essential to explain and point the exceptions." Liucoln
v. Laflin, 7 Wall. 132, 137.
The assessment of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue
was only prima facie evidence of the amount due as taxes upon
the spirits distilled between the dates mentioned. It established a prima facie case of liability against the distiller, and
nothing more. If not impeached, it was sufficient to justify a
recovery ; but every material fact upon which his liability was
asserted was open to contestation. He and his sureties were
at liberty to show that no spirits, or a less quantity than that
stated by the commissioner, were distilled within the period
mentioned, and thus entirely, or in part, overthrow the assessment. They were also at liberty to show a payment of the
tax assessed, in whole or in part, and thus discharge or reduce
the distiller's liability. To the extent, however, in which the
assessment was not impaired, it was evidence of the amount
due. The court, there'fore, erred in instructing the jury that
the assessment was to be taken and considered in its entirety,
and that the government was entitled to recover the exact
amount assessed, or not any sum. In other respects the charge,
as given above, correctly presents the law.
There may undoubtedly be cases where an assessment must
stand as an entirety, or not at all; as where an erroneous rate
has been adopted by the officer; or where it is impossible to
separate from the property assessed the part which is exempt
from the tax; or where its validity depends upon the jurisdiction of the commissioner. The present case does not fall within
either of these classes. Here the question is as to the quantity
of spirits produced on which taxes were not paid.
The decree in the equity suit was properly held not to be a
bar to the prosecution of this action in the absence of proof
that the assessment which it adjudged invalid covered the spirits upon which the assessment here was made. The instruction
to the jury deprived it of any weight as evidence with them.
Judgment reversed, and cause rerandedfor a new trial.

