BRIDGI

V. EXCELSIOR CO.

[Su[p. Ct.

fore, have been ordered for the defendants. It follows that the
judgment of the Circuit Court must be reversed, and the cause
be remanded with directions to enter judgment in their favor;
and it is
So ordered.

B3RIDGE V.

EXCELSIOR

COMPANY.

The claim for which Esek Bussey secured, July 18, 1876, letters-patent No.
180,001, is confined to an automatic device for raising up and letting down
a hinged oven-shelf, and they are not infringed by constructing and operating a shelf as described in letters-patent No. 205,704, granted Jan. 9, 1878, to
E. C. Little and D. 1I. Nation. The devices in both letters, though in some
respects different, operate upon a principle which has been long used in other
contrivances by which the same general effect is produced.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the

Eastern District of Missouri.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Robert H. Parkinson for the appellants.
MgJr. Samuel S. Boyd for the appellees.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This case arises upon a bill in equity, founded upon certain
letters-patent tinted July 18, 1876, and numbered 180,001,
granted to one Esek Bussey for an improvement in cookingstoves. The appellants, as his assignees, sue the Excelsior
Manufacturing Company and the other appellees for alleged
infringement, and pray an injunction, an account of profits, and
The appellees filed an answer,dean assessment of damages.
nying infringement, and alleging the patent to be invalid by
reason of certain older patents and of the prior public use of
The patent relates to an oven-shelf
his alleged invention.
placed on a level with the bottom of the oven when the door

is open, and outside of the oven, to serve as a shelf for pans
and other vessels to rest on, when drawn out of, or shoved into,

the oven.

The claim is not for the shelf, as that is admitted

to be old, but for an automnatic device for raising the shelf up-

right and enclosing it within the door when the latter is closed,

Oct. 1881.]

BRIDGE v. EXCELSIOR CO.

and letting it down to a horizontal position when the door is
opened. The device is a ean attached to the door, which passes
under the edge of the shelf, and gradually raises it to a nearly
perpendicular position as the door shuts. The shelf falls back
of its own weight when the door opens, resting on the cam.
The claim of the patent is as follows :
"What I claim, and desire to secure by letters-patent, is "In combination with a stove-oven, a hinged shelf, fitted to fall
outward and down automatically when the oven-door is opened, and
to be raised up by closing the oven-door, adapted to operate upon
it for that purpose substantially in the manner and for the pui'poses
herein set forth."
The defendants made and sold stoves containing oven-shelves
constructed and operated as described in letters-patent granted
to E. C. Little and D. 1I. Nation, dated July 9, 1878, and numbered 205,754. This shelf also has an automatic movement,
being raised when the door shuts, and lowered when it opens.
But the device by which this is accomplished is different from
that of Bussey. A cam, or arm, is used on the door, it is true;
but it does not operate under the shelf, but upon a projection
attached to the upper side of it, so arranged in relation to the
arm on the door as to raise and lower the shelf. Both devices
operate upoi the same principle precisely as that which has
been used for a long time in raising and lowering a carriagestep by shutting and opening the door, and in other contrivances
by which the same general effect is produced.
Cam movements, and others of like character, producing simultaneous
operations accordino to the needs of the case, such as opening
valves in a steam engine as the piston ascends and descends,
and a thousand other things, are in such common use, that it
requi'es but very little invention to adapt them to a particular
case, like the one under consideration. We think, with the
court below, that the patentee, if entitled to anything, is only
entitled to the precise device which he has described and
claimed in his patent; and as the defendants use a different
device, they are not guilty of infringement.
Decree affirmed.

