Oct. 1881.]

SCHEFFER V. RAILROAD CO.

seeking to redeem under such a decree and sale as the one
before us, can do so by making the offer within the time prescribed by the statute, and cannot do so afterwards. We concur in that view.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY

did not sit in this case, nor take any part

in deciding it.

SCHEFFER V.

RAILROAD COMPANY.

By reason of a collision of railway trains in Virginia a passenger was injured,
and becoming thereby disordered in mind and body he some eight months
thereafter committed suicide. lHld, in a suit by his personal representatives
against the railway company, that as his own act was the proximate cause of
his death, they are not entitled to recover.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Virginia.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. George A. King, with whom were Mr. Charles King and
Mr. John B. Sanborn, for the plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Linden Kent, contra.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiffs, executors of Charles Scheffer, deceased,
brought this action to recover of the Washington City, Virginia Midland, and Great Southern Railroad Company damages
for his death, which they allege resulted from the negligence of
the company while carrying him on its road. The defendant's demurrer to their declaration was sustained, and to reverse the judgment rendered thereon they sued out this writ
of error.

The statute of Virginia, under which the action was brought,
is, as to the question raised on the demurrer, identical with
those of all the other States, giving the right of recovery when
the death is caused by such default or neglect as would have
entitled the party injured to recover damages if death had not
ensued.

SC1iEFFER V. RAILROAD

CO.

[Sup. Ct.

The declaration, after alleging the carelessiless of the officers
of the company, by which a collision occurred between the
train on which Scheffer was and another train, on the seventh
day of December, 1874, proceeds as follows: -" Whereby said sleeping-car was rent, broken, torn, and
shattered, and by means whereof the said Charles Scheffer was
cut, bruised, maimed, and disfigured, wounded, lamed, and injured about his head, face, neck, back, and spine, and by reason
whereof the said Charles Scheffer became and was sick, sore,
lame, and disordered in mind and body, and in his brain and spine,
and by means whereof phantasms, illusions, and forebodings of
unendurable evils to come upon him, the said Charles Scheffer,
were produced and caused upon the brain and mind of him, the
said Charles Scheffer, which disease, so produced as aforesaid,
baffled all medical skill, and continued constantly to disturb,
harass, annoy, and prostrate the nervous systein of him, the said
Charles Scheffer, to wit, from the seventh day of December,
A. D. 1874, to the eighth day of August, 1875, when said
phantasms, illusions, and forebodings, produced as aforesaid,
overcame and prostrated all his reasoning powers, and induced
him, the said Charles Scheffer, to take his life in an effort to
avoid said phantasms, illusions, and forebodings, which he
then and there did, whereby and by means of the careless, unskilful, and negligent acts of the said defendant aforesaid, the
said Charles Scheffer, to wit, on the eighth day of August,
1875, lost his life and died, leaving him surviving a wife and
children."
The Circuit Court sustained the demurrer on the ground
that the death of Scheffer was not due to the negligence of
the company in the judicial sense which made it liable under
the statute. That the relation of such negligence was too remote as a cause of the death to justify recovery, the proximate
cause being the suicide of the decedent, - his death by his
own immediate act.
In this opinion we concur.
Two cases are cited by counsel, decided in this court, on the
subject of the remote and proximate causes of acts where the
liability of the party sued depends on whether the act is held
to be the one or the other; and, though relied on by plain-

Oct. 1881.]

SCHEFFER V. RAILROAD

CO.

tiffs, we think they both sustain the judgment of the Circuit
Court.
The first of these is Insurance Company v. Tweed, 7 Wall. 44.
In that case a policy of fire insurance contained the usual
clause of exception from liability for any loss which might
occur " by means of any invasion, insurrection, riot, or civil
commotion, or any military or usurped power, explosion, earthquake, or hurricane."
An explosion took place in the Marshall warehouse, which
threw down the walls of the Alabama warehouse, - the one
insured, situated across the street from Marshall warehouse,and by this means, and by the sparks from the Eagle Mill,
also fired by the explosion, facilitated by the direction of the
wind, the Alabama warehouse was burned. This court held
that the explosion was the proximate cause of the loss of the
Alabama warehouse, because the fire extended at once from
the Marshall warehouse, where the explosion occurred. The
court said that no new or intervening cause occurred between
the explosion and the burning of the Alabama warehouse.
That if a new force or power had intervened, sufficient of itself
to stand as the cause of the misfortune, the other must be considered as too remote.
This case went to the verge of the sound doctrine in holding
the explosion to be the proximate cause of the loss of the
Alabama warehouse; but it rested on the ground that no other
proximate cause was found.
In Milwaukee & St. Paul Railway Co. v. Kellogg (94 U. S.
469), the sparks from a steam ferry-boat bad, through the
negligence of its owner, the defendant, set fire to an elevator.
The sparks from the elevator had set fire to the plaintiff's
saw-mill and lumber-yard, which were from three to four bundred feet from the elevator. The court was requested to
charge the jury that the injury sustained by the plaintiff was
too remote from the negligence to afford a ground for a
recovery.
Instead of this, the court submitted to the jury to find
"whether the burning of the mill and lumber was the result
naturally and reasonably to be expected from the brning of
the elevator; whether it was a result which under the cireum-

SCIIEFFER

V. RAILROAD C.

[Sup. Ct.

stances would not naturally follow from the burning of the
elevator, and whether it was the result of the continued effect
of the sparks from the steamboat, without the aid of other
causes not reasonably to be expected."
This court affirmed the ruling, and in commenting on the
difficulty of ascertaining, in each case, the line between the
proximate and the remote causes of a wrong for which a remedy is sought, said: " It is admitted that the rule is difficult.
But it is generally held that, in order to warrant a finding
that negligence or an act not amounting to wanton wrong
is the proximate cause of an injury, it must appear that the
injury.was the natural and probable consequence of the negligence or wrongful act, and that it ought to have been foreseen
To the same
in the light of the attending circumstances."
effect is the language of the court in McDonald v. Snel/ing, 14
Allen (Mass.), 290.
Bringing the case before us to the test of these principles, it
presents no difficulty. The proximate cause of the death of
Scheffer was his own act of self-destruction. It was within
the rule in both these cases a new cause, and a sufficient
cause of death.
The argument is not sound which seeks to trace this immediate cause of the death through the previous stages of mental
aberration, physical suffering, and eight months' disease and
medical treatmeht to the original accident on the railroad.
Such a course of possible or even logical argument would lead
back to that "great first cause least understood," in which the
train of all causation ends.
The suicide of Scheffer was not a result naturally and reasonably to be expected from the injury received on the t:ain.
It was not the natural and probable consequence, and could not
have been foreseen in the light of the circumstances attending
the negligence of the officers in charge of the train.
His insanity, as a cause of his final destruction, was as little
the natural or probable result of the negligence of the railway
officials, as his suicide, and each of these are casual or unexpected causes, intervening between the act which injured him,
and his death.
Judgment affirmed.

