LOUISIANA V. PILSBU[SY.

[Sup. Ct.

such case the maxim applies in all its force, that better is the
condition of the defendant. The equities of the parties being
equal, the legal title must prevail.
Instead of the weak case made by appellee, the position of
affairs required him to make clear and satisfactory proof of his
superior equity. This he has signally failed to do.
Decree reversed, and cause remanded with directions to

dismiss the bill.

LOUISIANA V. PILSBURY.
1. The act of the General Assembly of the State of Louisiana, of Feb. 23, 1852,
entitled "An Act to consolidate the city of New Orleans, and to provide for
the government and administration of its affairs," is not in conflict with
article 118 of the State Constitution of 1845, which declares that "every
law enacted by the legislature shall embrace but one object, and that shall
be expressed in the title." Nor does section 37 of the act (infra, p. 2791
violate article 127 of that Constitution (infra, p. 290), touching equality and.
uniformity of taxation.
2. That article applied only to State taxes, and required that all the property on
which they were levied - not all property in the State - should be taxed
according to its value, and conformably to some fixed rate or mode.
3. By accepting the bonds which were issued under that section, and the supple.
mentary'act passed the same day, known as No. 72, and which formed the
consolidated debt of New Orleans, the creditors of the city, of the municipalities, and of Lafayette entered into a contract with the city, an essential
part whereof was the pledge to levy an annual tax of a specified amount
for the payment of interest and principal. Although slavery has been
abolished, the obligation of the city to raise the required fund by special
tax on real estate remains, and the right of the bond-holders to enforce it is
not waived by having received for years without objection the stipulated
interest raised in another mode than that for which the contract provides.
4. The act of the General Assembly of Louisiana of March 6, 1876, so far as it
relates to the consolidated debt, is null and void, inasmuch as it provides
for exchanging the debt for premium bonds, each of the denomination of
twenty dollars, dated Sept. 1, 1875, the principal and interest to be paid
at a time to be determined by chance in a lottery, and prohibits the levying
of the stipulated tax to pay the interest due upon that debt. It also
attempts to deprive the creditor of the means of enforcing payment which
existed when the debt was contracted, and it furnishes no other adequate
remedy.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana.

This was a petition of the State of Louisiana, on the relation

Out. 1881.]

LOUISIANA V. PILSBURY.

of the Southern Bank, a corporation created under its laws and
doing business in New Orleans, to one of its District Courts,
for a mandamus to compel the municipal authorities of that
city to levy a special tax to pay certain coupons on outstanding
bonds issued under an act of the State in 1852, and to purchase the bonds with any surplus remaining of the nloneys
collected. The history of the issue of the bonds is as follows:
The city of New Orleans was originally incorporated by an act
of the legislature in 1805, and its charter continued in force
until the 8th of March, 1836. An act was then passed which
divided the city into three municipalities, each of which was
created a distinct corporation, with " such rights, powers, and
capacities as are commonly incident " to municipal bodies.
This division continued until Feb. 23, 1852, when, by an act
known as act No. 71 of that year, and entitled " An Act to
consolidate the city of New Orleans and to provide for the
government and administration of its affairs," the three municipalities were again united into one. The act of 1836 provided
that a proportionate part of the debt of the city should be
paid by each municipality, the quota being fixed upon the
basis of the amount of taxes and other revenue accruing to
The separate municipalities subsequently created debts,
it.
and the act of Feb. 23, 1852, provided for the issue of bonds for
the payment of those debts, and also for the debt of the old'
city. The thirty-seventh section, which dealt with this subject,
is as follows: "SECT. 37. Be it enacted, &c., that the debt of the general sinking
fund, commonly called the old city debt, and the debts of the three
municipalities; whether in the form of bonds, notes, interest coilpons, cash warrants, or other species of oblioation whalever, shall
be assumed and paid by the city of New Orleans, and said city
is hereby declared liable therefor. The mayor, comptroller, and
treasurer, and chairmen of the finance committees of the two boards
of the common council, shall constitute a commission, to be called
the commissioners of the consolidated debt of New Orleans; and
they shall have power to issue bonds of the city of New Orleans.
having not more than forty years to run, with interest payable ait
such place as may be agreed on between said commissioners and
the parties to whom the bonds are issued, in semi-annual coupons,

LOUISIANA

V. PILBURY.

[Sup. Ct.

in exchange for any boencs, obligations, or debts of the old corporation, or of any of the old municipalities, whether matured or not, or
to sell the new bonds and apply the proceeds to the payment of
the matured debts of the old corporation or of the municipalities,
but to no other purpose. The bonds thus issued shall form a stock
to be called the consolidated debt of New Orleans. At the time
this act goes into operation, an exact and detailed statement of the
indebtedness of the old corporation and of each municipality shall
be filed in the office of the comptroller, by the secretary of the
board of liquidators and the nunicipal comptrollers respectively,
when the commissioners of the consolidated debt shall proceed to
divide the debt of the old corporation between the several municipalities, in proportion to the assessed value of real estate within
1851.
the limits of each, according to the State assessment roll fibr
The amount thus apportioned to each, together with its indi idtal
indebtedness at the time this act goes into operation, shall colistitute the separate debt of each municipality, and shall be known as
the debt of municipality No. one, No. two, No. three. The common
council shall, annually, in the month of' January, pass an ordinance
to raise the sum of six hundred thousand dollars, by a special tax,
on real estate and slaves, to be called the consolidated loan tax, and
the rate per cent of said tax, in each municipality, sh:ll be inproportion to the indebtedness of each. All ordinances, resolutions,
or other acts passed by said council, after the first day of January
in each year, shall be null and void, unless the ordinance imposing
the consolidation loan tax shall have been previously passed. At
the end of each and every year, any surplus of the consolidated
loan tax remaining in the treasury, after the payment of aill the
interest and the expenses of the nulaagernent of said debt, shall be
applied to the purchase, from the lowest bidder, of such bonds issued
under this act, as have the shortest period to run ; and the common
council shall have the right of rejecting all bids deihandino more
than the face of the bonds ; for which. purpose, p)ublic notice shall
be given by the comptroller in tie official gazette for thirty days,
inviting proposals from bondholders for the sale, to the city, of the
bonds herein described. From and after the passage of this aet no
oblitation or evidence of debt of any description whatever, except
those herein authorized, shall be issued by the city of New Orleans
or under its authority; nor shall 'any loan be contracted, unless the
same be authorized by a vote of a majority of the qualified voters
of said city, which shall be taken in the manner prescribed by tihe
city council, after ten days proclamation by the mayor, in the news-

Oct. 1881.]

LOUISIANA

V. PILSBURY.

paper chosen by the common council; and no ordinance creating a
debt or loan shall be valid, unless such ordinance shall prescribe
ways and means fbr the punctual discharge at matturity of the capital
borrowed or debt incurred ; and such ordinances shall not be repealed
until principal and interest of the capital borrowed or the debt incurred are fully paid and discharged."
By a supplementary act approved on the same day, known as
No. 72 of the year, the adjacent city of Lafayette was added to
the city of New Orleans, and provision was made for the assumption and payment of its debt. The fifth section of the
act is as follows:
" SECT. 5. Be it fother enacte, &c., that the debt of the city
of Lafayette shall be assumed and paid by the city of New Orleans,
and the said city of New Orleans is hereby declared liable therefor;
and the amount of said debt shall be ascertained, and its payment
provided for and made in the same manner as the debt of each
municipality of New Orleans is ascertained and provided for in the
act to which this act is a supplement; and in raising annually the
consolidation loan tax for the payment of the debt of New Orleans,
an additional sum of fifty thousand dollars shall be raised for the
purpose of providing for the debt of the city of Lathyette, now
added to that of New Orleans, so that the whole amount of the
annual levy of taxes for the payment of the debt of New Orleans
shall be six hundred and fifty thousand dollars."
Under these acts, No. 71 and No. 72, the commissioners of
the consolidated debt issued bonds of the city of New Orleans,
known as consolidated bonds, to the amount of ten million
dollars, in exchange for the bonds, obligations, and debts of the
old city, of the three municipalities, and of the city of Lafayette. Of this amount bonds exceeding five million dollars have
been paid by funds received under the tax levied pursuant to
the provisions of the thirty-seventh section of act No. 71
and of the fifth section of act No. 72, beyond what was necessary to meet the annual interest. There remain outstanding
bonds for more than four million dollars, with interest since
1876. Of these bonds, with unpaid coupons, the relator owns
upward of six hundred, each for the sum of one thousand
dollars.

LOUISIANA V. PILSBURY.

[Sup. Ct.

The petition refers to the acts No. 71 and No. 72 of 1852, and
cites at length the sections mentioned. It also alleges that the
bonds issued under them were negotiable securities; that by
reason of the law providing for the payment of the inter'est
and the gradual reduction of their number through a sinking fund, they were negotiated at their par value or above it,
and distributed in the markets of Europe and of the United
States in the due course of business as a secure, permanent, and
trustworthy investment; that the free banks of the State were
compelled to invest in them to secure the circulation of their
bills, and that individuals and corporations did likewise with
confidence in the provisions of sect. 37 of act No. 71, and sect.
5 of act No. 72, for the maintenance and enforcement of which
the public faith of the State of Louisiana and of the city of
New Orleans was inviolably pledged.
The petition then alleges that, in violation of the provisions of law mentioned, which constitute a contract with the
bondholders, binding both upon the State of Louisiana and the
city of New Orleans, the legislature of the State, on the 12th
of March, 1874, passed an act entitled "An Act to postpone
the levy and collection by the city of New Orleans of a tax
for a sinking fund for the purchase of its bonds, to authorize
the administrators of the city to modify the last budget and tax
levy, and to repeal conflicting laws and penalties," the object
of which was to relieve the authorities of the city until Decemiber, 1876, from the duty of estimating, levying, and collecting
any tax for a sinking fund for the purpose of purchasing any of
the bonds issued under the acts mentioned.
The petition also alleges that, in further violation of the provisions of the act of 1852, and of the contract with the holders
of the bonds, the legislature, on the 6th of March, 1876, passed
another act, designed, as stated in its title, to adjust, regulate,
and provide for the bonded debt of the city of New Orleans,
and authorize the exchange of its bonds for other bonds to be
issued on the plan known as the premium bond plan, the
avowed object of which was to impair, if possible, the obligation of the contract between the bondholders and the city, and
divest the rights acquired by them under it, by prohibiting the
-ity authorities from levying a tax in any year under the pro-

Oct. 1881.]

LOUISIANA V. PILSBURY.

visions of the acts of 1852, by shackling the judicial tribunals
in the issue of process, and by repealing the provisions of that
act. The seventh section is as follows: "SE CT. 7. Be it further enacted, yc., that no tax fbr the payment
of bonds or interest on bonds other than that authorized by the
preceding sections [the premium bonds], shall be levied either fbr
the year 1876, or any year or years thereafter, by the city of New
Orleans, and that all existing laws requiring or authorizing the city
council to levy any tax whatsoever for bonds or interest on bonds,
other than said premium bonds, be and the same are hereby repealed; and it shall be hereafter incompetent for any court to mandamus the officers of said city to levy and collect any interest tax
other than that provided in this act, or in case of such mandamus,
by a receiver or otherwise, to direct the levy and collection of any
such tax."

The petition then avers that these acts of the legislature of
Louisiana are in conflict with the Constitution of the United
States, in that they impair the obligation of the contract between the bondholders and the city; that nevertheless the
authorities of the city, its mayor and administrators, in disregard of the provisions of the acts of 1852, and in contempt of
their duties and of the rights of the relator and other bondholders similarly situated, have refused to perform the duty
imposed upon them by those acts for the years 1874, 1875,
1876, and 1877, to levy a special tax for the payment of the
matured coupons and the purchase of bonds; that they have
levied upon the property subject to the levy of such special tax
for the payment of the consolidated bonds, other taxes to meet
other bonds issued by the city in disregard of the prohibitory
clauses of sect. 37 of the act of 1852, and the moneys collected have been applied to the payment of those bonds, and
other illegal purposes; that the authorities of the city have
been notified to levy the special tax required for the years
mentioned, but they have refused to discharge their duty in
that particular, and, in place thereof, have sought by all sorts
of frivolous and unfounded technicalities to contest the validity
and integrity of the consolidated bonds ; that the relator has
demanded payment of the matured coupons held by it, which

LOUISIANA V. PILSBURY.

[Sup. Ct.

was refused, the city authorities answering that there were no
funds out of which they could be paid ; and that the city and
the taxable real estate within its limits are liable for the payment of the matured coupons and for the purchase of said bonds
to the extent of $650,000 per annunm, for the years 1874, 1875,
1876, and 1877, less coupons paid for 1874 and 1875.
The petitioner, therefore, prays for a m)andamus and an
injunction ; the former, commanding the city authorities to
levy the special tax of $650,000 for the years named; and
the latter, enjoining them from levying any other tax on real
estate within the limits of the city which is subject to the
special tax for the consolidated debt, until the special tax has
been levied.
Upon the petition, an alternative writ of mandamus was
issued, requiring the city authorities to show cause why they
should not comply with its prayer.
The authorities appeared on the return-day and excepted to
the jurisdiction of the court to grant the writ, on the following
grounds: 1st, That by the provisions of the acts of the legislature
No. 5 of the extra session of 1870, and No. 31 of 1876 - the
courts of the State were prohibited from issuing a writ of mandamus to compel the respondents to pay any debt not liquidated by judgment, or to levy and collect any in~terest tax
other t han that provided in act No. 31 of 1876 (the premium
bond act).
2d, That the duty of the respondents, by the city charter and
the sixth section of the act No. 31 of 1876, was limited to the
levy and collection of a tax on the assessed value of all property subject to taxation within the city, at a rate not exceeding one and one-half per cent on the dollar, to meet all
expenses of the city government, and to pay the interest on its
bonded debt.
3d, That the respondents are expressly forbidden, by said
act No. 31 of 1876, from levying the tax demanded for the
year 1876, or for any year afterwards.
4th, That the legislature, by act No. 53 of 1874, had suspended the levy and collection of any tax for the sinking fund
under the act of 1872 until December, 1876, which, the re-

Oct. 1881.]

LOUISIANA

V. PILSBURY.

spondents charge, was passed with the assent of the Southern
Bank.
And if the exceptions should be overruled, the respondents,
reiterating and pleading the matters contained in them as part
of their answer, further add: 5th, That the provisions of the thirty-seventh section of act
No. 71 of 1852 are unconstitutional and void, because their
object is not expressed in the title of the act, as required by
art. 118 of the Constitution of 1845, in force at the time.
6th, That the tax provided by the section mentioned is
unconstitutional and void, and in violation of sect. 127 of the
Constitution of 1845, and art. 123 of the Constitution of 1852 ;
because, first, it is to be assessed on real estate and slaves, and
not on personal property; and, secondly, because the rate per
cent of the tax in each municipality is to be in proportion to
the indebtedness of each.
By a supplementary answer the respondents reiterated th
same objections to the writ in more ample terms.
Various parties, including the State of Louisiana, holders of
premium bonds, owners of real estate in the city, and taxpayers, were allowed to intervene under the practice which obtains
in Louisiana, and various exhibits produced by them were
made part of the case.
In March, 1878, the District Court gave judgment granting
a peremptory writ of mandamus as prayed, and denying the
injunction. On appeal to the Supreme Court of the State this
judgment was reversed, and judgment entered that the demand
of the relator be dismissed, with costs, in both courts. To
review this judgment the case is brought to this court.
Mr. John A., Campbell and MJr. Edward Bermudez, with
whom was i1ir. Daniel Il Chamberlain and M. William B.
Ilornblower, for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Bevjamin F. Jonas and Mrh'. Henry C. Miller for the
defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
As will be seen by the statement of the case, the petition
for the mandamus proceeds upon the theory that the transac-

LOUISIANA

V. PILSBURY.

[Sup. Ct.

tion, authorized by the thirty-seventh section of the act of
1852, and the fifth section of the supplementary act of the
same day, when consummated by the issue of the bonds of the
city of New Orleans, and their exchange for the obligations of
the old city, of the three municipalities, and of the city of
Lafayette, constituted a contract between the city and the
bondholders, the obligations of which could not be subsequently impaired by State legislation; and that the provision
pledging the levy and collection of an annual tax of $600,000,
increased by the supplementary act to $650,000, for the payment of the interest on the bonds, and their gradual retirement, was an essential part of that contract.
On the other hand, the city authorities, the respondents
here, deny the validity of the act of 1852, on two grounds:
1st, that its object is not sufficiently expressed in its title,
under the Constitution of 1845 ; and, 2d, that in providing for
a tax to be levied upon real estate and slaves, to the exclusion
of personal property, and in proportion to the indebtedness of
each municipality, it violates the Constitution of 1845, which
requires equality and uniformity of taxation throughout the
State. And they also invoke against the issue of the writ the
subsequent legislation of the State limiting the taxes which
shall be levied upon property in the city, prescribing the purposes to which they shall be applied, prohibiting the levy and
collection of any other tax, and depriving the courts of the
State of the power to issue a mandamus to compel them to pay
any debt not liquidated by judgment, or to levy and collect
any interest tax other than that provided by the premium bond
act of 1876.
Assuming for the present that the act of 1852 is not invalid,
for the reasons stated, the first inquiry is as to the character
of the transaction authorized by it and the supplementary act.
Did it, when consummated, amount to a contract between the
city and parties subsequently taking the bonds; and did the
pledge to levy the annual tax named form a part of the contract? Unless both of these questions can be answered in the
affirmative, it will be to no purpose to inquire into the subsequent legislation of the State respecting the tax, as no inhibition would rest upon its power over the subject.

Oct. 1881.]

LOUISIANA

V. PILSBURY.

The acts of 1852 consolidated the three previously existing
municipalities within the limits of New Orleans into one, and
added to it the adjacent city of Lafayette. The new corporation took all the property and interests of the municipalities,
and of Lafayette, and consequently became subject to their
obligations. The advantages which accrued from the possession of their property were accompanied with the burdens of
their debts. This liability was not, however, left to rest upon
any general principles of corporate liability in such cases.
The legislature recognized its existence, and in consolidating
the municipalities and the corporation of Lafayette, declared
that the debts of the old corporation, of the municipalities, and
of that city, should be assumed and paid by the city of New
Orleans, which was declared to be liable therefor. The first,
of the acts appointed commissioners of the debt thus consolidated, and. authorized them to issue new bonds of the city
having forty years to run, with interest coupons payable semi.
annually, in exchange for the obligations and debts of the old
corporation, and of the municipalities, to which the debts of
Lafayette were subsequently added by the supplementary act,
To meet the interest it provided that the common council or
the city should annually, in the month of January, pass an
ordinance to raise the sum of $600,000, increased to $650,006
by the supplementary act, by a special tax on real estate and
slaves, to be called the consolidated loan tax. It also provided
that any surplus remaining at the end of each year, after payment of the interest on these bonds, and the expenses of managing the debt, should be applied to the purchase of such of
the bonds as might have the shortest period to run. These
provisions, until the bonds were accepted, were in the nature
of proposals to the creditors of the old city, of the municipalities, and of Lafayette. The State in effect said to them : The
city will give these bonds, running for the period designated,
and drawing interest, in exchange for your demands ; and as
security for the payment of interest, and the gradual redemption of the principal, the city shall annually, in January, levy
a special tax for that purpose to the amount of $650,000.
The provisions were designed to give value to the proposed
bonds in the markets of the country, and necessarily operated

LOUISIANA V. PILSBURY.

[SLIP.

Ct.

as an inducement to the creditors to take them. When the
bonds were issued and taken by the creditors, a contract was
consummated between them and the city as fuily as if all the
provisions had been embodied as express stipulations in the
most formal instrument signed by the parties. On the one
hand, the creditors surrendered their debts against the former
municipalities; and, on the other hand, in consideration of the
surrender, the city gave to them its bonds, which carried the
pledge of an annual tax of a specified amount for the payment
of the interest on them, and ultimately of the principal. The
annual tax was the security offered to the creditors; and it
could not be afterwards severed from the contract without
violating its stipulations, any more than a mortgage executed
as security for a note given for a loan could be subsequently
repudiated as forming no part of the transaction. Nearly all
legislative contracts are made in a similar way. The law
authorizes certain bonds to be issued, or certain work to be
done upon specified conditions. When these are accepted, a
contract is entered into imposing the duties and creating the
liabilities of the most carefully drawn instrument embodying
the provisions. Von Hoffman v. City of Quincy, 4 Wall. 535;
Hartmuan v. Greenhow, 102 U. S. 672; People v. Bond, 10
Cal. 563; Brooklyn Park Company v. Armstrong, 45 N. Y.
There were other provisions in the act of 1852 besides those
stated, which, though not essential to the obligatory form of
the contract, were designed to inspire the creditors with confidence in the punctual payment of the interest and principal.
It declared that all ordinances, resolutions, or other acts passed
by the council after the first day of January of each year
should be null and void, unless the ordinance imposing the
consolidated loan tax should have been previously passed. It
also declared that after its passage no obligation or evidence
of debt of any description whatever, except those therein
authorized, should be issued by the city or under its authority.
Whatever legal force may be ascribed to them, they were
intended as solemn asseverations that the pledge of the annual
tax should never be violated.
The question then arises, Was the act of 1852 valid? Its

Oct. 1881.]

LOUISIANA V. PILSBURY.

invalidity is asserted, as stated above, on two grounds; the
first of which is that its object is not expressed in its title, as
required by article 118 of the Constitution of 1845. The title
of the act is "Ali Act to consolidate the city of New Orleans,
and to provide for the government and admiistration of its
affairs." Tile article of tile Constitution declares that " every
law enacted by the legislature shall embrace but one object,
and that shall be expressed in the title." A similar provision
is found in several State Constitutions. Its object is to prevent
the practice, common in all legislative bodies where no such
provision exists, of embracing in the same bill incongruous
matters, having no relation to each other, or to the subject
specified in the title, by which measures are often adopted
without attracting attention, which, if noticed, would have
been resisted and defeated. It thus serves to prevent surprise
in legislation. But it was not intended to forbid the union of
several different provisions in the same bill, if they are germane
to the general subject indicated by its title. A bill to incorporate a city and provide for its government may,' without
conflicting with the constitutional clause, contain provisions
relating to the various subjects upon which municipal legislation may be required for the preservation of peace, good order,
and health within its limits, the promotion of its growth and
prosperity, and the raising of revenue for its government. So
here, under the title of the act in question, provisions might
be enacted, not merely relating to the union of the different
municipalities and the government of the city, but to all the
varied details into which the general administration of its
affairs might lead. The municipalities were in debt at the
consolidation, and this was well known to the legislature. A
change in their government, and in the administration of their
affairs, required some disposition to be made of their debts.
Whatever interests were possessed by them were the proper
subjects of legislation in the act which took them out of existence as separate municipalities and created a new corporation
in their place, with power to deal with their affairs. We
hold, therefore, that the act of 1852 was not invalid, on the
ground that its object is not sufficiently expressed in its
title.
VOL. XV.

19

LOUISIANA V. PILSBURY.

[Sup. Cf.

The second ground of objection to the validity of the act of
1852 is, that the tax prescribed is to be levied upon real estate
and slaves to the exclusion of personal property, and in each
municipality in proportion to its indebtedness ; which, as contended, violated the rule of equality and uniformity required by
the Constitution of 1845. The language of the act is, that
" The common council shall annually, in the month of January,
pass an ordinance to raise the sum of $600,000, by a special tax
on real estate and slaves, to be called the consolidated loan tax,
and the rate per cent of said tax in each municipality shall be
in proportion to the indebtedness of each." This amount, as
already stated, was, upon the annexation of the city of Lafayette, increased to $650,000. On the passage of this act, -Feb.
23, 1852, - the Constitution of 1845 was in force. The Constitution of 1852 was not adopted until July of that year.
Article 127 of the Constitution of 1845 is as follows: " Taxation shall be equal and uniform throughout the State. After the
year 1848, all property on which taxes may be levied in this
State shall be taxed in proportion to its value, to be ascertained
as directed by law. No one species of property shall be taxed
higher than another species of property of equal value on which
taxes shall be levied ; the legislature shall have power to levy
an income tax, and to tax all persons pursuing any occupation,
trade, or profession."
This article has been frequently before the Supreme Court of
the State for construction, and until the decision of the present
case the requirement of equality and uniformity in the tax has
been held to apply only to taxes levied for State, and not to
those levied for municipal, purposes. The first case was S'eond Miunicipality of New Orleans v. Duncan, 2 La. Ann. 182.
That municipality had passed an ordinance imposing a special
tax of one per cent on all real estate within its limits, for the
purpose of paying its debts and providing for the support of
schools; and objection was taken to its constitutionality on two

grounds: 1st, that the power of taxation was vested exclusively in the legislature, and could not be delegated to the
municipality; and, 2d, that the taxation authorized impinged
upon the rule that no one species of property should be unduly
assessed. Both grounds were supposed to derive support from

Oct. 1881.]

LOUISIANA V. PILSBURY.

the article of the Constitution in question, - the first, because,
as contended, the equality and uniformity required throughout the State were only obtainable by confining the exercise
of the power of taxation to the legislature, whose authority
was coextensive with the territorial limits of the State;
and the second, from the inhibition against taxing one species
of property higher than another. But the court replied,
speaking through its Chief Justice: " The article by its terms
applies to State, and not to nmnicipal, taxes. It provides for
equality and uniformity of taxation throughout the State ...
The framers of the Constitution had before them the condition
of the municipalities of New Orleans, with their debts, their
abuses, and their wants; and their corporate existence is recognized and continued, as to certain public rights, by an express
provision. The jurisprudence under which the present system
of taxation had grown lip was before them, and the power of
remedying the evils of misgoverninent was left in statu quo,
with the legislature; and the convention confined itself to
providing for the State government, leaving the municipal
bodies, as it is believed sound policy justified, under legislative
control." And referring to the admission made in the record
that there was no special ordinance of the municipality assessing taxes on personal property, the court added: " We know
of no reason imperative on the municipality to impose their
taxes in any particular form, or to include any other species
of property in an ordinance imposing a tax on real estate.
It constitutes no objection, under any view of the subject, to
the validity of this tax, that personal property was not also
taxed by special ordinance."
This case was decided in 1847, and it is objected that it
arose before that part of the article went into effect, which
declares that "no one species of property shall be taxed higher
than another species of property of equal value on which taxes
shall be levied." It is doubtful whether this objection be correct in point of fact, but assuming it to be so, the requirement
of equality and uniformity was in force; and the part cited
does not require that taxation shall be universal. It simply
requires that when different kinds of property are taxed, the
rate of taxation shall be the same on all. The construction

LOUISIANA V. PILSBUrIY.

[Sup. Ct.

given was afterwards affirmed by the same court in City of
Lafayette v. Cummnins (3 La. Ann. 673), decided in 1848.
There the question was as to the validity of a municipal tax on
the trade and occupation of the defendant as a butcher, levied
under an ordinance of the city passed in 1847. There were
other trades and occupations not embraced in the ordinance,
and, consequently, not taxed. It was, therefore, contended
that the imposition of the tax was contrary to that clause of
the article of the Constitution which provides for the equality
and uniformity of taxation throughout the State. But the court
replied that " in the case of Duncan v. Second Municipality,
this question, after very thorough argument, was determined
by this court, and the article was held applicable only to State,
and not to municipal, taxes." It is said in answer to this decision that the language of the court was a mere dictum. We
do not so regard it. The point of contention in the ease was
whether the equality and uniformity applied to taxation on
occupations and trades as well as on property. The answer
which met the objection to the taxation on real property exclusively was held to meet the objection to taxation on certain
occupations to the exclusion of others.
The Constitution of 1852 contained a similar clause, - identical in language, omitting the words " after the year 1848," and with one exception, subsequently reversed, it has received
a similar construction from the Supreme Court of the State.
The case referred to was that of Municipality No. 2 v. White and
Others, which arose in 1854. 9 La. Ann. 446. The municipality had imposed a tax on the owners of property contiguous to
a newly opened street, to pay the expenses of opening it, under
a law which authorized the apportionment of the cost in such
cases upon the owners of adjacent property, according to the
benefit derived from the improvement. The court was of
opinion that the law was liable to the objection that the tax
was not equal and uniform, as required by the clause in question, and held it to be unconstitutional. The decision was in
conflict with that in Duncan's ease, but it was rendered by
a divided court; and in Yeatman v. Crandall, which arose in
1856, it was overruled. In the latter case, the plaintiff sought,
to enjoin the collection of a levee tax, which was imposed on

Oct. 1881.]

LOUISIANA

V. PILSBUIY.

certain alluvial lands, on the ground that the statute authorizing it was unconstitutional, in that it violated the rule of
equality and uniformity prescribed by the article in question.
But the court said: " This article refers to State taxation, in
,its proper sense, for general or State purposes. When it says
that taxation shall be equal and uniform throughout the State,
it points directly to its object, which is to regulate the mode
of filling the State treasury. It does not take away the power
of making local assessments for local improvements, upon the
equitable principle that he who reaps the benefit must bear
the burden. . . . It is notorious that an acre of land pays
twice as great a tax for local purposes in one parish as an acre
of equal value pays in another parish. Yet no one thinks the
Constitution infringed by such a state of things." 11 La. Ann.
220.
By this decision the doctrine of the earlier cases, upon the
clause in the Constitution of 1845, was re-established ; and one
of the judges, who had concurred in th decision in the White
case, stated that lie had been led to reconsider his opinion, and
that he yielded his former impressions on this point the more
readily, because the Supreme Court which sat under the Constitution of 1845, and five of the seven judges with whom he
had sat upon the bench, had concurred in holding that the
article in question was not intended to apply to municipal or
local taxation for local improvements.
The doctrine of this case was affirmed the same year in Suryi
v. 8netchman (11 La. Ann. 387), and again in 1859 in Wallace
v. Shelton, 14 id. 498. In its opinion, in the latter case, the
court said that the questions in the Yeatman case were decided
upon full consideration, after having the aid of the arguments
of learned counsel in that case, and also in another case then
under consideration on a rehearing, and were subsequently
affirmed in the two cases mentioned ; and added that, "after
these decisions, which were in conformity with those under
the Constitution of 1845, we had hoped the question would be
considered as at rest."
The objection to the want of equality and uniformity in the
taxation authorized by the act of 1852, in that it was to be
levied on the property of the different municipalities in pro-

LOUISIANA V. PILSBURY.

[Sup. Ct.

portion to the indebtedness of each, does not strike us as possessing much force. The debts created by the municipalities
were separate and different in amounts, and before the consolidation the taxes upon the property in them must necessarily
have been assessed at different rates. There was no obligation
upon the legislature to relieve either of them from the unequal
burdens consequent upon the different amounts of their indebtedness. The subject was one resting in its discretion. Nor
was it an unreasonable provision, when authorizing the city to
issue its bonds for the indebtedness of them all, to require that
taxation to raise the funds for their payment should be thus
apportioned.
From the extended reference to the adjudications of the
Supreme Court of Louisiana, upon the Constitution of 1845,
requiring uniformity and equality in taxation, there can be no
serious question as to the validity of the act of 1852, so far as
the consolidated bonds of the city of New Orleans are concerned, and the provisions made by it and the supplementary
act for the annual levy of a tax of 9650,000 to pay the interest
and reduce the principal. The decisions upon the clause of
the Constitution of 1852 are corroborative of the correctness
of the construction originally placed upon the clause of the
Constitution of 1845. Whether such a construction was a
sound one is not an open question in considering the validity
of the bonds. The exposition given by the highest tribunal
of the State must be taken as correct so far as contracts made
under the act are concerned. Their validity and obligation
cannot be impaired by any subsequent decision altering the
construction. This doctrine applies as well to the construction
of a provision of the organic law, as to the construction of a
statute. The construction, so far as contract obligations incurred under it are concerned, constitutes a part of the law as
much as if embodied in it. So far does this doctrine extend,
that when a statute of two States, expressed in the same terms,
is construed differently by the highest courts, they are treated
by us as different laws, each embodying the particular construction of its own State, and enforced in accordance with it
in all cases arising under it. Christy v. Pridqeon, 4 Wall.
196, and Shelby v. Guy, 11 Wheat. 361. The statute as thus

Oct. 1881.]

LOUISIANA V. PILSBURY.

expounded determines the validity of all contracts under it.
A subsequent change in its interpretation can affect only
subsequent contracts. The doctrine on this subject is aptly
and forcibly stated by the Chief Justice in the recent case of
Douglass v. County of Pike, 101 U. S. 677, 687. " The true
rule,"lie observes, "is to give a change of judicial construction
in respect to a statute the same effect in its operation on contracts and existing contract rights that would be given to a
legislative amendment; that is to say, make it prospective, not
retroactive. After a statute has been settled by judicial construction, the construction becomes, so far as contract rights
acquired under it are concerned, as much a part of the statute
as the text itself, and a change of decision is, to all intents and
purposes, the same in its effect on contracts as an amendment
of the law by means of a legislative enactment." See also
Gelp)clce v. City of Dubuque, I Wall. 175; Haveuieyer v. -Iowa
County, 3 id. 294; Thomson v. Lee County, id. 327 ; Lee County
v. Rogers, 7 id. 181; Chieago v. Sheldon, 9 id. 50; Olcott v.
The Supervisor's, 16 id. 678; Fairfield v. County of Gallatin,
100 U. S. 47.
We refer to this doctrine, not from any doubt as to the correctness of the construction of the article of the Constitution of
1845 given by the Supreme Court of the State, but in answer
to the objections of counsel and the position of the court below.
We are of opinion that the construction given was correct.
It is impossible to apply to the varying wants of a municipality
the rule invoked with reference to taxation for State purposes
on property throughout the State, without producing the very
inequality which that rule was designed to prevent. There
would often be manifest injustice ill subjecting the whole propeity of a city to taxation for an improvement of a local character. The rule that he who reaps the benefit should bear the
burden must in such cases be applied. The same construction
of a similar clause in the constitutions of other States has been
adopted by their highest courts. The Constitution of Virginia
of 1850 prescribed that "' taxation shall be equal and uniform
throughout the Commonwealth, and all property, other than
slaves, shall be taxed in proportion to its value, which shall be
ascertained in such manner as may be prescribed by law;"

L(UISIANA

V. PILSBURY.

[Sup. Ct.

and the Court of Appeals of the State held that the provision
related solely to taxation for purposes of State revenue, and
did not apply to taxes by counties and corporations for local
purposes. Gillceson v. The Prederick Justices, 13 Gratt. (Va.)
577. The Constitution of Arkansas of 1836 provided that "all
property subject to taxation shall be taxed according to its
value, - that value to be ascertained in such manner as the
General Assembly shall direct, - making the same equal and
uniforl throughout the State ; " and the Supreme Court of the
State held that the provision was intended to apply to State
revenue, and was not applicable to taxes levied for county purposes. Washington v. The State, 13 Ark. 752. See also
Mc Gehee v. Mathis, 21 id.40.
That taxation for State purposes, to be equal and uniform
within the meaning of the Constitution of 1845, need not have
been universal, is a proposition which calls for no argument.
It was only necessary that all property on which taxes were
levied-not all property in the State-should be taxed according to its value, and in conformity with some fixed rate or
mode. State v. Lathrop, 10 La. Ann. 398; New Orleans v.
Commereial Bank, id. 735.
The validity of the consolidated debt of New Orleans, and
the obligation of the city to provide for the payment of the
interest and the redemption of the principal, were never questioned by the legislative department of the State until 1876,
but were repeatedly and in the most emphatic manner recognized and affirmed. In fourteen acts of the legislature passed
prior to that year the consolidated bonds are referred to as valid
obligations of the city, though hi one of them, it is true, a different mode of raising the tax from that specified in the act of
1852 is required, and in another the levy and collection of the
tax are postponed for two years. Thus the act passed in 1.856
amending the charter provides that the eommon council shall
in each year levy an equal and uniform tax upon all property
in the city, real and personal, but that said tax, added to the
consolidated loan tax and other taxes designated, shall not in
the aggregate be more than one dollar and a half on one hundred dollars of valuation, except in case of invasion, " provided
it,
be sufficient to pay the interest on tile consolidated debt and

Oct. 1881.]

LOUISIANA V. PILSBURY.

railroad bonds issued by the city of New Orleans." In the
mode thus prescribed the amount stipulated by the act of 1852
was annually raised and applied until 1874, without objection
from the bondholders. Hence it is contended that they waived
their right to the special tax mentioned. But no such inference
can be justly drawn from their silence. They could not colnplain so long as the amount prescribed was raised and applied
as stipulated. Had the requisite funds been given to the city,
and then applied to pay the interest on the bonds, and to purchase with the residue such of them as had the shortest tinie
to run, the bondholders would have been equally without cause
of complaint, and would as little have waived by their silence
the right to insist upon the special tax if a resort to it should
become necessary. Nor is their right in that respect affected
by the fact that since 1852 slavery has been abolished, and
that there are no longer slaves upon whom taxation can be
levied. The obligation of the city to raise the required fund
by special tax on real estate still remains. That is no more
lessened than it would be by the destruction of any 6ther poption of the taxable property; although tile rate of taxation on
what is left might be thereby increased.
The act of 1874, which postponed the levy and collection of
the tax for a sinking fund for the purchase of bonds of the city
until December, 1876, also declared that the act should in no
wise be construed to hinder, delay, or affect the prompt pay-ment of the interest on them as they matured. The validity
of the consolidation bonds was " recognized in all its integrity
it being the object of the act to afford temporary relief to the
taxpayers of New Orleans in the embarrassed condition of its
affairs, and not to detract from or impair the rights of the
holders of said bonds."
But notwithstanding this declaration of the validity of the
consolidated debt, and the inviolability of the provisions for its
payment, no tax was subsequently raised to pay the interest,
or to retire the principal. And before the time arrived to
which the postponement of a levy was made, new light respecting the obligations of the city and the rights of the bondholders
had dawned upon
ltie
city authorities. Although for twentytwo years all departmlents of the State government had recog-

LOUISIANA V. PILSBURY.

[Sul). Ct.

nized the validity of the bonds, and the annual interest had
been regularly paid, and more than half of them retired, it
was then for the first time discovered that the act of 1852,
authorizing the issue of the bonds, was invalid, that its object
was not sufficiently stated in the title, that the tax prescribed
was neither equal nor uniform, and therefore was in conflict
with the Constitution. The outcome of these new notions was
the Premium Bond Act of March 6, 1876, passed by the legislature at the solicitation of the municipal authorities.
This act is a most remarkable piece of legislation. So far
as the consolidated bonds are concerned, it amounts to little
less than open repudiation of the city's faith. It admits that
the debt of the city as established by law is so large as to require for its liquidation taxation on property within its limits
at the rate of at least five per cent, and yet authorizes a tax of
only one and a half per cent to pay the expenses of the city
government, and to meet the obligations which are offered in
exchange for those bonds.
It recites in its preamble that the total debt of the city,
bonded and floating, exceeds $23,000,000; that the taxable
property of the city has become so reduced in value as to require a tax at the rate of at least five per cent per annum to
liquidate the debt ; that the levying of a tax at so exorbitant a rate will render its collection impossible ; that the continuation of a tax beyond the ability of the property to pay
would lead to a further destruction of the assessable property
of the city and to ultimate practical bankruptcy ; and that
the council of the city have adopted a plan for the liquidation
of its indebtedness, looking to the payment of its creditors in
full, " obtaining thereby the indulgence necessary for the publie well-being and the maintenance of the public honor."
The plan proposed was to exchange all recognized and valid
bonds of the city of New Orleans, and of the cities of Jefferson
and Carrollton, for bonds to be known as premium bonds of
the city; the latter to be of the denomination of twenty dollars, and dated Sept. 1, 1875, each bearing five per cent interest from July 15 of that year, the inter:est and principal
to be paid at the same time and not separately, and that time
to be determined by chance in a lottery. One million of these

Oct. 1881.]

LOUISIANA

V. PILSBUIRY.

bonds was to be divided into ten thousand series of one hundred
bonds each. The ten thousand series were to be placed in a
wheel, and, in April and October of each year, as many series
were to be drawn as were to be redeemed, according to a certain schedule adopted. The bonds composing the series thus
drawn were to be entered for payment three months thereafter,
principal and interest, and were to be receivable for all taxes,
licenses, and other obligations of the city. At the expiration
of the three months the bond numbers of the drawn series
were to be placed in a wheel and 1,176 prizes, amounting to
$50,000, were to be drawn and distributed. Under this plan
the city was to be released from payment of the principal and
interest of its debt, except such portion as might be drawn in
the lottery each year. Under this arrangement it would depend upon the turn of a wheel and the drawing of a fortunate
number whether a creditor would be paid in one year or in
fifty years. The plan completely disregards all the conditions
upon which the consolidated bonds were issued, and postpones
indefinitely the payment of interest and principal, or rather
leaves the time of payment within fifty years to be determined
by chance.
The act of 1852, as we have stated, declares that the city
council shall, in January of every year, pass an ordinance for
the levy and collection of a special tax to be applied to the
payment of the interest on the consolidated bonds and to retire
the principal. The act of 1876 declares that no tax shall be
levied by the city council that year or any year afterwards to
pay the principal or interest on those bonds, or on any other
than the premium bonds. The act of 1852 declares that all
ordinances, resolutions, and acts of the city council of any year
shall be null and void, unless the ordinance imposing the special tax designated shall have been previously passed. The act
of 1876 declares that all laws requiring or authorizing the city
council to levy any tax for bonds or interest on bonds other
than premium bonds are repealed; and, as if that was not
sufficient evidence of the repudiation of former obligations, it
forbids the courts to issue a nvandamus to the officers of the
city to levy and collect any interest tax other than for those
bonds.

LOUISIANA

V. PILSBURY.

[Sup. Ct.

To meet the interest on them and for all other purposes of
the city, the act further provides that a tax of only one and
one-half per cent per annum shall be levied; and this limitation of the taxing power of the corporation is " declared to be
a contract not only with the holder of said premium bonds, but
also with all residents and tax-payers of said city, so as to
authorize any holder of said premium bonds to legally object
to any rate of taxation in excess of the rate herein limited."
If the provisions of this act nullifying the pledges of the act
of 1852 are valid, the consolidated bonds are virtually destroyed ; no taxation is allowed to raise funds for them ; their
payment, therefore, would be so uncertain as to render them
practically valueless. The chance with premium bonds offered
in their place of a favorable turn of the wheel in a lottery
would be a poor substitute for the levy of an annual tax for
the payment of interest and principal. We shall not waste
words upon the scheme thus developed to evade the jnst obligations of the city. Notwithstanding the declaration in its
preamble, that the act seeks from the creditors the indulgence
necessary "for the public well-being and the maintenance of
the public honor," it is, so far as the consolidated bonds are
concerned, tainted with the leprosy of repudiation. It says to
the creditors : " Take these premium bonds, and trust for payment within fifty years to your fortune in the lottery we offer;
no other way is left open to obtain a possible payment. No
tax can be levied for your benefit. No compulsory writ can
issue from the courts. Take these bonds or take nothing."
The primal duty of the city authorities to fulfil punctually
their obligations and maintain good faith is thus proclaimed to
be no duty at all.
We do not deny that the power of taxation belongs exclusively to the legislative department of the government, that
the extent to which it may be delegated to municipal bodies is
a matter of discretion, and that in general the power may be
revoked at the pleasure of the legislature. But, as we said
in the case of IVolff v. New Orleans, decided at the last term,
legislation revoking the power is subject to this qualification,
which attends all State legislation, that it " shall not conflict
with the prohibitions of the Constitution of the United States,

Oct. 1881.]

LOUISIANA V. PILSBURY.

and, among other things, shall not operate directly upon contracts of the corporation, so as to impair their obligation by
abrogating or lessening the means of their enforcement. Legislation producing this latter result, not indirectly as a consequence of legitimate measures taken, as will sometimes happen,
but directly by operating upon those means, is prohibited by
the Constitution, and must be disregarded - treated as if never
enacted-by all courts recognizing the Constitution as the
paramount law of the land. This doctrine has been repeatedly
asserted by this court when attempts have been made to limit
the power of taxation of a municipal body, upon the faith of
which contracts have been made, and by means of which.alone
they could be performed. . . . However great the control of
the legislature over the corporation while it is in existence,
it must be exercised in subordination to the principle which
secures the inviolability of contracts."
The case of Von Hoffman v. City of Quineq, reported in 4th
Wallace, is a leading one on this subject. The court there
said, " that when a State has authorized a municipal corporation to contract, and to exercise the power of local taxation to
the extent necessary to meet its engagements, the power thus
given cannot be withdrawn until the contract is satisfied. The
State, and the corporation, in such cases, are equally bound."
The inhibition upon the courts of the State to issue a mandamus for the levy of a tax for the payment of interest or
principal of any bonds except those issued under the premiumbond plan was a clear impairment of the means for the enforcement of the contract with the holders of the consolidated bonds.
When the contract was made, the writ was the usual and the
only effective means to compel the city authorities to do their
duty in the premises, in case of their failure to provide in other
ways the required funds. There was no other complete and
adequate remedy. The only ground on which a change of
remedy existing when a contract was made is permissible
without impairment of the contract is, that a new and adequate and efficacious remedy be substituted for that which is
superseded. Here no remedy whatever is substituted for that
of mandaamus. The holders are denied all remedy. Louisiana
v. New Orleans, 102 U. S. 203-207.

LOUISIANA

V. PILSBURY.

[Sup. Ct.

Legislation of a State thus impairing the obligation of contracts made under its authority is null and void, and the courts
in enforcing the contracts will pursue the same course and
apply the same remedies as though such invalid legislation had
never existed. The act of March, 1876, cannot, therefore, be
permitted to restrict the power of the city authorities to levy
the tax stipulated by the act of 1852 to pay the interest on
the consolidated bonds issued thereunder, and to retire the
bonds.
It follows from the views expressed that the judgment of
the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana must be reversed,
and the cause be remanded to that court with instructions to
reinstate the same and to remand it to the Third District Court
of the Parish of Orleans, or its successor, to carry into effect the
provisions of the thirty-seventh section of the act of the legislalure approved Feb. 23, 1852, and the fifth section of the supplementary act approved the same day, embraced in Nos. 71 and
72 of the acts of that year, as containing a valid contract
between the city of New Orleans and the creditors holding the
bonds issued under them; and to direct the District Court to
issue a mandamus to the city of New Orleans and its authorities, annually to levy and collect the tax of $650,000 directed
by the acts, and to apply the same in the following order:
First, to the payment of the current interest of the year; seeondly, to the payment of arrearages of interest of former years
until all the arrearages are satisfied ; and, thirdly, to the purchase
of bonds having the shortest period to run.
Judgment to this effect, and that the defendants pay the
costs in this court and in the Supreme and District Courts of
Louisiana, will be entered.

