Oct. 1881.]

COtiBiN V. COUNTY

OF BLACK HAWK.

COR13IN V. COUNTY OF BLACK HAWK.
1. As a suit to compel the specific performance of a contract, or to enforce its
other stipulations, is a suit to recover the contents of a chose in action, it
was not, under sect. 629, Rev. Stat., maintainable in the Circuit Court by
an assignee, if it could not have been prosecuted there by the assignor,
had no assignment been made.
2. Tei paper writing (bloia, p. 661) is sufficient in forn to assign the contract
therein mentioned; and where the assignee of such contracts, each executed
for a separate parcel of school lands in Iowa, by the proper county officer
to a different assignor, tendered the amount due on them and brought
suit for a deed of conveyance for the lands, - Held, 1. That his assignors,
who claim an interest in the respective tracts, are, with the county and its
officers, necessary parties, although by the terms of the contract the governor of the State was to execute the conveyance. 2. That the value of
the matter in dispute between the complainant and the county is the amount
so tendered.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Iowa.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. James D. Campbell for the appellant.
Mll'. Galusha Parsons for the appellee.
MR. JUSTICE BTA'CrFOIID delivered the opinion of the
court.
This case comes into this court on an appeal by the plaintiff
below from a decree dismiissing the amended and substituted
bill of complaint, on demurrers thereto for want of jurisdiction.
The defendants are the county of Blackhawk, in the State of
Iowa, the auditor and the treasurer of that county, and thirty
other individuals. The original bill was filed in November,
1874. The citizenship of the plaintiff, as a citizen of New
York, and of all the defendants, as citizens of Iowa, is properly
alleged. The bill avers that, in 1857, one John Kerr, as school
commissioner of the county, being thereunto duly authorized
by the laws of Iowa, made eleven several contracts in writing
in respect to the sale of land,-four with one person, and one
with each of seven other persons. A copy of one of the contracts is made part of the bill, each being averred to be in like

CORBIN V. COUNTY OF BLACK hAWK.

[Sup. Ct.

words and figures, except the name of the purchaser, the description of the land, and the amounts of money mentioned. It
is in these words: SCSIoOL-FuND COMMISSIONEI'S OFFICE,

" BLACK HAWK COUNTY, July 10, 1857.
"Contract made and entered into between John Kerr, as schoolfund commissioner for the county of Black Hawk, Iowa, and
Abraham Carey, of the county of Black Hawk and State of Iowa,
to wit: "The said John Kerr, school-fund commissioner, as authorized
by law, has bargained and sold, and by these presents does bargain
and sell, to the said Abraham Carey the following-described tract
or parcel of land, being a portion of section numbered sixteen (or
lands in lieu thereof), granted to the State for the use of schools
by an act of Congress entitled ' An Act supplemental to the act for
the admission of the States of Iowa and Florida into the Union,'
approved March 3, 1845, to wit: Lot No. 10, being the west (1)
half of the southeast (-) quarter section sixteen (16), township
eighty-nine (89) north, of range fourteen (14) west, containing
eighty acres.
"The price agreed upon is nine and 1 5, dollars per acre, amounting to the sum of seven hundred and twenty-four dollars, the onefourth part of which, to wit, one hundred and eighty-one dollars,
has been paid in cash to the said school-fund commissioner, and
the balance, to wit, five hundred and fbrty-three dollars, secured by
a promissory note bearing even date herewith and payable on or
before ten years from date, bearing interest at the rate of ten per
centur per annum, payable annually, on the first day of January,
at the office of the said school-fund commissioner, in Black Hawk
County.
"Now, if the said Abraham Carey, his heirs, executors, or administrators, shall pay or cause to be paid the interest on said note
as the same falls due, together with the principal, within the time
specified, then lie will be entitled to receive froin the governor of
the State of' Iowa a patent for the land herein described. In case
of failure to make any of the payments aforesaid punctually as stipulated, all previous payments shall be considered forfeited, and the
land subject to be sold by the school-fund commissioner, or the paymeant of the mopey enforced according to law, at the option of said
commissioner.

Oct. 1881.]

CORBIN V. COUNTY OF BLACK HAWK.

11In testimony whereof the parties have hereunto set their hands
and seals the day and year first above written.
(Signed)
JonN K RR,
[L. S.]
"School-Fund Commissioner of Blalc Iawk Couniy.
"ABRAHAM

CAREY.

"In °presence of"D. J. COLEMAN."
The bill alleges that the cash payment specified in each contract was made; that the promissory note specified in each
contract was made and delivered; that a record of each sale
was duly made, as provided by law ; that each of the several
persons to whom the lands were sold "made divers payments
of money," which were credited upon their several notes by
the proper officers of the county, but the plaintiff cannot set
forth particularly the dates and amounts of the payments;
that the notes and the amounts due thereon are held by
the county as valid claims against their makers; that by the
said premises the several purchasers became the owners of
the several tracts of land ; that the legal title to the lands
remained vested in the county; that on the payment of the
balance of said moneys the county was bound to cause the
lands to be conveyed to the several purchasers, or their assigns;
that afterwards the several purchasers, for money considerations, respectively made and delivered to the plaintiff certain
"conveyances,"
a copy of one of which is made part of the
bill, each of the others being averred to be in like substance
and effect, except the name of the grantor and the description
of the lands conveyed; that the " conveyances" were duly
filed in the office of the auditor of the county; and that thereby
the plaintiff became the owner of the several contracts and the
several tracts of land. Such copy is in these words: "Know all men by these presents, that I, Win. 11. McClure, in
consideration of the sum of one hundred dollars in hand paid to
me by Austin Corbin, of Kings County, State of New York, the
receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, do hereby sell and convey
to the said Austin Corbin all the interest in the following-described
land, viz.: Lots numbers (3) three, eleven (11), and twelve (12)
being the north half of the northeast quarter, and the east half of
the southeast quarter of section sixteen (16), township eighty-nine

CORBIN v. COUNTY OF BLACK HAWK.

[Sup. Ct.

(89) north, of range number fourteen (14) west of the fifth principal
meridian, in Black Hawk County, Iowa, which was conveyed to
me by contract, now on file in the office of the county auditor of
Black Hawk County, Iowa, made by and between John Kerr,
school-fund commissioner of said county, and Wm.IH.McClure, ftr
the conveyance of said lands, and I hereby sell and assign to said
Corbin all my rights under said contract. covenanting with him
that I have not sold, assigned, or transferred the same to any person or persons.
"In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand this first day of
"Wm. H. MCCLUR.E.
July, 1871.
"In presence of,,
DAN'L W. FOOTE."
Indorsed on back as follows:" This assignment filed in my office this first day of July, A. D.

1871.

"D. W.

FOOTE,

Auditor."

The bill further alleges the willingness of the plaintiff to
pay to the county the amount remaining unpaid on the notes,
being the balance of the purchase-money of the several tracts
of land ; that in January, 1872, lie offered to pay it to the
auditor of the county; that in October, 1874, he tendered to
the auditor and to the treasurer $16,197.69, as and for the payment of the balance remaining unpaid on the purchase-money
of the several tracts of land, and all interest thereon; that
said sum was more than sufficient to pay the balance ; that
said officers failed to accept the money so tendered, and refused to state whether they accepted or refused to accept it;
that he then and there became entitled to demand the issue of
certificates of the payment'bf the moneys provided to be paid in
said several contracts, and then and there did demnand the issue
of the same, which was refused; that he brings into court for
the use of the defendants the amount so tendered, to wit,
$16,197.69, for the purpose of completing and perfecting the
said tender, and to enable the defendants to accept the same, if
they elect so to do, at any time; that, in case said moneys
should be found insufficient in amount for said purposes, he
offers to pay and bring into court such further sum as may be
found to be necessary ; that the said several contracts are valid

Oct. 1881.]

CORBIN V. COUNTY OP BLACK HAWK.

and subsisting; that the county has never undertaken to rescind them, or given notice of an intention to do so, or commenced suit to enforce payment of the purchase-money, or to
foreclose the equities of the plaintiff or,of his grantors ; that no
forfeiture of the contracts could lawfully be made by said
county ; that the defendants other than the county and its said
two officers severally claim to have some title to or interest in
the lands, or some part thereof; that pursuant to said last-mentioned sales, patents have been issued for the lands, or some of
them, to the defendants, or some of them, by the governor of
the State of Iowa, but the plaintiff cannot more particularly
state the facts in respect to the issue of the patents ; that the
plaintiff is the lawful owner of the several tracts of land ; and
that the issue of said patents has vested the legal title to said
premises in the patentees therein named. The prayer of the
bill is that the subsequent sales of the several tracts of land,
and the patents, and all conveyances of the lands by tile patentees, be decreed to be void and of no effect as against the
estate of the plaintiff ; that his title to said premises be forever
quieted as against the defendants claiming any interest in the
lands; that each of them be enjoined from setting up any in-

terest in said premises under the sales and the patents issued
thereunder ; that the said patentees, and their several grantees,
be decreed to hold the legal title to said lands, as the trustees
of and for the plaintiff ; and that they be compelled to convey
the same to tile plaintiff upon such terms as to the court may
seeml just and equitable. Three separate demurrers were filed
to the amended bill, one by the county of Black Hawk, one
by its auditor and its treasurer, and one by the remaining
defendants. In each of the demurrers one of the causes of
dem'urer assigned is, that it does not appear upon the bill that
the Circuit Court has jurisdiction of the alleged causes of action
or of the parties, or that the plaintiff's several assignors could
have maintained actions in the Circuit Court against the deumurring defendants upon the said several contracts. The court
states in its decree that it had heard argument upon the question of jurisdiction, and upon no other, and that it dismissed
the amended bill upon the ground that it had no jurisdiction
of the cause.

CORBIN v.

COUNTY OF BLACK

HAWK.

[Sup. Ct.

The first point taken by the appellees is, that the appeal
ought to be dismissed for want of jurisdiction in this court, on
the ground that the matter in dispute does not exceed the
sum or value of $5,000, exclusive of costs. The view urged
is that the interest of each of the appellees who is alleged
to have an interest in some of the lands in question is several ; that each several interest is not shown to exceed the
value of $5,000 ; and that the county of Black Hawk and
its officers are not necessary or more than formal parties to
the suit. But the allegations of the bill, which must be
taken as true, for the purposes of this case, are, that although,
under the contracts, the patents for the lands are to be issued
by the governor of the State, the notes and the amounts due
thereon are held by the county, the money is to be paid to the
county, and the tender was made to the officers of the county
who are defendants. The matter in dispute between the appellant and the county is the sum of $16,197.69, which lie
tendered to its officers, and which they did not accept. Under
the contracts the purchaser is entitled to receive a patent from
the governor only on paying the notes, which are alleged to be
held by the county. To obtain the relief asked for in the bill
the plaintiff must first pay that sum to the county in discharge
of the notes. His title cannot be quieted as prayed for, as
against the adverse claiiants of the lands, until his contract
obligations to the county are fulfilled. Therefore, the county
and its said officers are real parties to the suit, and the matter
in dispute as to them is the sum so tendered.
Although the amended bill in the record was filed in July,
1878, the counsel for the respective parties have stipulated in
this court, in open court, that the suit in the Circuit Court
was originally begun in November, 1874. The question of the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court is, therefore, to be determined
under that clause of sect. 629 of the Revised Statutes which
provides that " no Circuit Court'shall have cognizance of any
suit to recover the contents of any promissory note or other
chose in action, in favor of an assignee, unless a suit might
have been prosecuted in such court to recover the said contents if no assignment had been made, except in cases of
foreign bills of exchange." There can be no doubt that the

Oct. 1881.]

CORWBIN V. COUNTY OF BLACK HAWK.

original contracts in this case are choses in action, in respect
to the rights acquired thereunder by the parties thereby contracting to purchase the lands. It is equally clear that by the
instruments executed to the plaintiff by such purchasers, selling
and conveying to him their several interests in the several
tracts of land, and assigning to him all their rights under said
several contracts, he became the assignee of the contracts, as
choses in action, in respect to the rights of the assignors thereunder, including their rights of action thereon which are sought
to be enforced in this suit. The only question for consideration is, whether the suit is one to recover the contents of the
contracts.
The appellant contends that the suit is not one to recover
the contents of a chose in action; that it is not even founded
upon the contracts ; and that it is only a suit to determine the
validity, force, and effect of certain transactions which occurred
subsequently to the making of the contracts, whereby certain
rights adverse to those existing under the contracts are claimed
to have arisen. It is urged that the appellant does not prosecute the suit in his character of assignee, but prosecutes it
because a cause of action has accrued to him through the act
of the county officers in refusing to accept the tender, and
through the assertion by the other individual defendants of an
adverse title to the lands. But we cannot take this view of the
case. The suit is really one for the specific performance of
the contracts, to enforce them, to realize the fruits of the rights
secured by them to the purchasers, and to reinstate the plaintiff in the position which he is entitled to occupy under the
contracts as assignee thereof, notwithstanding any acts done by
the county or its officers in impairment of the rights acquired
by the contracts. Such a suit must be regarded as one to recover the contents of the contracts. The contents of a contract, as a chose in action, in the sense of sect. 629, are the
rights created by it in favor of a party ini whose behalf stipulations are made in it which he has a right to enforce in a suit
founded on the contract; and a suit to enforce such stipulations
is a suit to recover such contents. The promise to pay money,
contained in a promissory note, is all that there is of the note.
A suit to enforce the payment of the money is a suit to recover

[Sup. Ct.

CORBIN V. COUNTY OF BLACK ITAWK.

the contents of the note, because there is nothing contained in
the note but the promise. The promise to receive the money
stipulated in these contracts to be paid by the purchasers, as a
foundation for their right to receive patents, is, so far as this
suit is concerned, the essence of the contracts; and a suit to
compel the acceptance of that money is a suit to enforce such
promise, and, therefore, is a suit to recover the contents of the
contracts. This principle was settled in the early case of Sere
v. Pitot (6 Cranch, 332), under sect. 11 of the act of Sept. 29,
1789, c. 20, which is re-enacted in sect. 629 of the Revised
Statutes. There the plaintiffs were the general assignees of
the effects of an insolvent debtor, by operation of law. It was
contended that the statute applied only to a voluntary assignment of a particular chose in action, and that the word " contents" did not apply to accounts or unliquidated claims, but
was confined to transferable paper. But the court held that
the statute intended to except suits in virtue of equitable
assignments, as well as suits in virtue of legal assignments,
and to exclude from the Federal courts the assignee of all
the open accounts of a merchant, as well as the same person when the assignee of a particular note. The court say:
" The term ' other chose in action ' is broad enough to comprehend either case, and the word ' contents' is too ambiguous in
its import to restrain that general term.

The

'

contents' of

a note are the sum it shows to be due, and the same may,
without much violence to language, be said of an account."
Following out this principle, the obligation or the promise
contained in a contract is its contents, when a suit is brought
to enforce such obligation ; and it does no violence to language
to say that the suit is one to recover such contents.
In Deshler v. Dodge (16 How. 622, 631), it is said by the
court, that the statute in question applies to cases " in which
the suit is brought to recover the contents or to enforce the
contract contained in the instrument assigned; " and that
where the suit is brought to enforce the contract contained
in the chose in action, the assignee is disabled, unless time suit
might have been brought in the court if no assignment had
been made. Again, in Bushnell v. Kennedy (9 Wall. 387), it
is suggested by the court that the restriction applies to rights

Oct. 1881.]

POST v. SUPERVISORS.

of action founded on contracts which contain within themselves some promise or duty to be performed, and that such
contracts may be properly said to have contents.
The amended bill in this case contains no averment showing
that the suit could have been maintained by the assignors of
the contracts if no assignments had been made ; and it is
well settled that this is necessary. Tarner v. Bank of North
America, 4 Dall. 8; Mollan v. Tbrrance, 9 Wheat. 537 ; Bank
of United States v. Moss, 6 How. 31 ; Bradley v. Rhines'
Admrs., 8 Wall. 393.
We are, therefore, of opinion that the Circuit Court had no
jurisdiction of this suit. Its decree will be affirmed, with the
modification that the dismissal of the bill is wifliout prejudice to the right of the plaintiff to bring any suit he may be
advised, in the proper court; and it is
So ordered.

POST v. SUERVIsolRs.
AMOSKEAG

BANK V.

OTTAWA.

1. Whether a seeming act of the legislature is or is not a law, is a judicial question to be determined by the court, and not a question of fact to be tried by
a jury.
2. The construction uniformly given to the Constitution of it State by its highest
court is binding on the courts of the United States as a rule of decision.
3. An act of the legislature of a State, which has been held by its highest court
not to be a statute of that State, because never passed as its Constitution
requires, cannot be held by the courts of the United States, upo the same
evidence between different parties, to be a law of the State, although referred to in later statutes of the State ius an existing law, and assumed to
be such in earlier cases in the State court, in which its validity was not,
and by the settled practice of that court could not be, controverted.
4. The act of the General Assembly of Illinois of Feb. 18, 1857, purporting to
authorize the issue of certain municipal bonds, is of no force or effect, by
reason of its not appearing by the legislative journals to have been passed
as required by the Constitution of 1848.
5. Under the statute of Illinois of Feb. 12, 1849, copies of the original daily
journals kept by the clerks of each house of the legislature, made by persons contracted with or employed for the purpose, in well-bound books fur-

