UPTON V. MCLAUGHLIN.

[Slip. Ct.

there was in force, during the same period, another provision
specifically taxing snuff, manufactured of tobacco or any substitute for tobacco, of all descriptions, at the rate of thirty-two
cents per pound. Any such construction of the statute is inadmissible. The bill of exceptions stated that there was no
evidence to show that the term " snuff " was synonymous with
"granulated tobacco," and that while the plaintiffs' witnesses
knew what was meant by snuff, they did not know what granulated tobacco was, in the trade in Virginia, nor what the
statute meant by that phrase. It will not, therefore, be expected that this court will judicially know what granulated
tobacco is, or in what respect, if in any, it resembles snuff.
All that we decide is, that the article manufactured of tobacco,
or any substitute for tobacco, known in the trade and prepared
for use as snuff, is, within the meaning of the statute, snuff
upon which, when sold or removed for consumption or use, was
imposed, during the period in question, a tax of thirty-two
cents per pound.

Judgment affirmed.

UPTON

V. MCLAUGHLIN.

1. Section 5057 of the Revised Statutes (is/ia, p 642) does not, in the cases therein
mentioned, declare that the court, wherein the suit is brought more than
two years after the cause of action accrued, shall not have jurisdiction
thereof. It is merely a statute of limitations, and, as such, should be construed and enforced.
2. If, in a suit by an assignee in bankruptcy, it does not appear that the defendant raised in some appropriate forin, in the court of original jurisdiction,
the question as to the application of the statute of limitations, lie is precluded from so doing in the appellate court
3. The Code of Civil Procedure of the Territory of Wyoming is not in conflict
with this ruling.

ErROr to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Wyoming.
The facts are fully stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. J1ower Cook for Ihe plaintiff in error.
Mr. William -R. Steele for the defendant in error.

Oct. 1881.]

UPTON

v. McLAUGHLIN.

MR. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD delivered the opinion of the
court.
This suit was brought in the District Court of the First Judicial District of the Territory of Wyoming, in and for Laramie
Couity, by the assignee in bankruptcy of the Great Western
Insurance Company, to recover from Daniel McLaughlin the
sum of $800, with -interest at twelve per cent, from the fifteenth
day of August, 1872, as the amount due and unpaid on a subscription for ten shares of the capital stock of the company,
owned by McLaughlin. The company was a corporation of
the State of Illinois. In February, 1872, it was adjndicated a
bankrupt by the District Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois, and on the 11th of April, 1872,
the plaintiff was appointed its assignee, and an assignment of all
its property was executed to him. On the 5th of July, 1872,
the bankruptcy court made an order that the entire amount
unpaid of the capital stock of the company be paid to him on
or before the 15th of August, 1872, at his office in Chicago,
and that, in default thereof, lie proceed to collect the same.
The amount claimed in this suit is eighty per cent on $1,000,
being on ten shares of $100 each. The suit was commenced
by a petition filed April 8, 1876. McLanghlin put in an answer consisting of four several defences. The fourth defence set
up, as a cause of action against the company, and as a set-off to
the claim on which the suit was brought, that the company,
before it was adjudged bankrupt, was indebted to him on a
balance due upon an account, in a specified sum, which was still
due, and for which sum he prayed judgment against the plaintiff. The plaintiff demurred, by one demurrer, to the second,
third, and fourth defences. The District Court overruled the
demurrer as to the second and third defences, and sustained it
as to the fourth defence. To such ruling against the defendant
he excepted. The case was tried by a jury, and a verdict rendered for the plaintiff, assessing his damages at $1,008. Thereupon a judgment was entered that the assignee recover from
McLaughlin $1,008, and the costs of the action. McLaughlin,
by a petition in error to the Supreme Court of the Territory,
alleging thir'ty-two several errors made by the District Court,
prayed for a reversal of the judgment. The Supreme Court enVOL. XV.

41

UPTON V. MCLAUGHLIN.

[Sup. Ct.

tered a judgment that the judgment of the District Court must
be reversed and held for naught, and then stating, that " the
court, further proceeding to render such judgment as the said
District Court ought to have rendered, find that said court had
no jurisdiction of said cause," and that it should have renflered
judgment in favor of McLaughlin and against the assignee, and
that judgment be rendered in favor of McLaughlin and against
the assignee, and that McLaughlin recover from the assignee
$59.25 costs, and that such judgment be remanded to the District Court for execution, and that a special mandate be sent

to said court therefor. The assignee has brought the case into
this court by a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Wyoming.
The grounds on which the court proceeded in holding that
the District Court had no jurisdiction, and in reversing the
judgment of that court, are shown by its opinion, which is found
in the record. The opinion proceeds upon the view that, because of the provisions of sect. 5057 of the Revised Statutes of
the United States, the District Court had no jurisdiction of the
suit. That section is as follows: "No suit, either at law or in
equity, shall be maintainable in any court, between an assignee
in bankruptcy and a person claiming an adverse interest, touching any property or rights of property transferable to or vested
in such assignee, unless brought within two years from the
time when the cause of action accrued for or against such assignee. And this provision shall not in any case revive a right
of action barred at the ime when an assignee is appointed."
The view taken in the opinion is, that this statute is not a
statute merely limiting the remedy, but imnposes an absolute
limit; that, after two years, the assignee can neither sue nor
be sued, but his office, for the purpose of commencing any suit,
must be regarded as having expired ; that no court has power
to admit him to a status within the court; and that such want
of power is want of jurisdiction. The opinion delivered by
Mr.Justice Miller in Bailey v. Glover (21 Wall. 342), is cited
and interpreted as holding that the statute (then sect. 2 of
the act of March 2, 1867, c. 176, 14 Stat. 518) is an absolute
jurisdictional limitation, and thus, as an adjudication of the
question, furnishing the rule which governs this case.

This

Oct. 1881.1

UPTON v. MCLAUGHLIN.

is an entire misconception of that decision. It established the
contrary proposition. It was a suit in equity, in which the assignee, more than three years after the date of his appointment,
filed a bill against three relatives of the bankrupt, to set aside
conveyances made to them by the bankrupt of all his estate in
fraud of his creditors. It alleged that the bankrupt and the
defendants kept secret their fraudulent acts, whereby the assignee and the creditors were prevented from obtaining any
sufficient knowledge or information thereof until within two
years before the filing of the bill. The defendants demurred
to the bill, on the ground that the suit was not brought within
two years from the appointment of the assignee. The demurrer was sustained by the Circuit Court. The plaintiff appealed
to this court. The report of the case shows that the defendants contended here that the case was not one of an ordinary
statute of limitation, but that the statute was imperative and
admitted of no exceptions as to any tribunal. If such contention had been regarded as correct, the decision of the Circuit
Court would necessarily have been affirmed. But this court
held that the statute in question was a statute of limitation,
and one of such a character as not to set up an absolute bar
of two years from the mere lapse of that time, but to require the application to it of the principle that where there.
has been no negligence or laches on the part of a plaintiff
in coming to the knowledge of the fraud which is the foundation of the suit, and when the fraud has been concealed, or is
of such a character as to conceal itself, the statute does not
begin to run until the fraud is discovered by, or becomes
known to, the party suing or those in priviLy with him. On
this view this court reversed the decree below. This was a
plain decision that the statute in question does not impose an
absolute limit of two years after the appointment.of the assignee, in respect to transactions which occurred before such
appointment, and that there is no want of power in the court
to entertain a suit after such two years have elapsed. This
view was recognized and applied in Giford v. Helms (98
U. S. 248), although there it was held that, on the facts, the
assignee's right of action commenced at the time of his appointment. It is, therefore, clear that no support for the decision

UPTON

v. McLAUGHLIN.

[Sup. Ct.

below is to be drawn from Bailey v. Glover. The question is
not to be treated as one of power or jurisdiction, but as one
dependent on the principles applicable to statutes of limitation
generally.
This being so, the record shows that no question as to the
application of the statute to the case was raised in the District
Court of the Territory by the defendant, either in pleading or
on the trial, or before judgment. It is too late for a defendant
who does not take, prior to a judgment against him, the point,
that the action is barred by a statute of limitation, to raise the
point for the first time in an appellate court. This principle
is always applied to questions which are not questions of jurisdiction. Storm v. United States, 94 U. S. 76, 81.
It is, however, contended by the defendant that the question
of the bar by the statute was presented in the Supreme Court
of the Territory, by the record from the District Court, because
the petition did not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action, and could have been demurred to for that cause.
Sect. 85 of the Code of Civil Procedure of the Territory provides that the defendant may demur to the petition when it
appears upon its face either that the court has no jurisdiction,
or that the petition does not state facts sufficient to constitute
.a cause of action. Sect. 87 provides that the objection to the
jurisdiction of the court, and the objection that the petition
does not state the facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action,
shall not be deemed to be waived by not taking them by either
demurrer or answer. It is contended that a petition which
shows upon its face that the cause of action is barred by a
statute of limitation, is a petition which does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action ; and that that objection, though not taken by demurrer or answer, may be taken
at any time. But we are of opinion that the statutory provisions referred to cannot pr 6 perly be construed as allowing the
defence of a bar by a statute of limitation to be raised for the
first time in an appellate court, even though the petition might
have been demurred to as showing on its face that the cause of
action is so barred, and thus as not stating facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.
The petition in this case sets out facts which show that the

Oct. 1881.]

UPTON v. McLAUGHLIN.

cause of action sued on accrued to the assignee more than two
years before the bringing of the suit. Assuming the suit to be
such a suit as is mentioned in sect. 5057, it is held by the
Supreme Court of Wyoming, in Bonnifield v. Price (I Wy. 172),
that the rule is well established in that Territory, that where
from the face of the petition it is apparent, without any further
showing, that the claim is barred by a statute of limitation, a
defendant may take advantage of such bar by a special demurrer to the petition. The same rule prevails in Ohio, Sturyes
v. Barton (8 Ohio St. 215) ; MeKinney v. McKiney (id. 423) ;
in Kansas, Zane v. Zane (5 Kan. 134) ; and in Nebraska, Peters
v. Dunnells, 5 Neb. 460. The rule is founded on the view that
in such a case the petition does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. But if, in the court of original jurisdiction, the defence of a statute of limitation is not raised by
either demurrer or answer, and is not brought to the attention
of the court which tries the cause, by some objection taken in
a proper manner, before judgment, it cannot, under sect. 87 of
the Code of Wyoming, be raised for the first time in an appellate court. The effect of that section is only to permit the
defendant to make the objection after demurrer or answer, and
before judgment. Under such a statutory provision it has been
held that at the trial, and even after the evidence is all in,
the objection may first be made, Cofn v. Reynolds (37 N. Y.
640); Zane v. Zane (5 Kan. 134); and that it may be made by
stating it distinctly as a ground of objection to the introduction
of evidence. Zane v. Zane, ui supra. But unless it appeared
by tile record which was before the Supreme Court of Wyoming in this case, that the objection had been taken in some
proper manner in the District Court, the Supreme Court could
not notice it. That court has power (Code, sect. 513) to reverse a judgment of the District Court for errors appearing on
the record, and the petition in error (sect. 514) must set forth
the errors complained of. Neither in the bill of exceptions,
nor in the twenty-eight errors specified in the motion for a
new trial in the District Court, nor in the thirty-two errors specied in the petition in error, is there any allusion to the statute
of limitation.
The defendant contends that as the District Court sustained

UPTON v. MCLAUGHLIN.

[Slip. Ct,

the demurrer to the fourth defence in the answer, and the defendant excepted to the ruling, the question as to whether the
petition was sufficient as a pleading was thereby brought up, because the District Court ought to have given judgment against
the party which committed the first fault in pleading. But
we are of opinion that the record must show that the question
as to whether it appeared by the petition that the action was
barred by the statute was distinctly presented to and raised before the District Court. This does not appear, as before stated.
The defendant also contends that various objections and
exceptions taken by him to the admission of evidence, and to
instructions to the jury, and various grounds of error stated in
the motion for a new trial, raised the question referred to.
It is sufficient to say that the objections to the admission of
evidence merely state that the evidence is incompetent, immaterial, and irrelevant, without suggesting the question of the
statute of limitation ; and that the exceptions to the instructions to the jury and the grounds of error set forth in the
motion for a new trial make no allusion to that question, nor is
there any allusion to it in the record sent from the District
Court. Under such circumstances the question cannot be raised
in the appellate court. Mays v. Fritton, 20 Wall. 414, and
cases there cited; Beaver v. Taylor, 93 U. S. 46; Wheeler v.
Sedgwick, 94 id. 1.
Because the Supreme Court of Wyoming held that the District Court had no jurisdiction of this suit, it did not examine
any of the questions raised by the defendant in the bill of exceptions taken by him. As it improperly reversed the judgment
of the District Court, its judgment must be reversed ; and as it
passed on no other question but the jurisdiction of the District
Court, the case must, under the provisions of sects. 701 and
702 of the Revised Statutes, be remanded to it, with directions
to hear and determine the questions raised by the petition in
error, and to take such further proceedings as may be in conformity with law and not inconsistent with the opinion of this
court; and it is
So ordered.
NOTE. - Upton v. Kent, error to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Wyoming, was submitted at the same time as the preceding ease, and was argued by

