UNITED

STATES

v.

Em1uOLT.

[Sup. Ct.

UNITED STATES V. EMHOLT.
1. At the hearing in the Circuit Court of an appeal from the District Court, the
district judge who rendered the decision appealed from cannot, under
sect. 614 of the Revised Statutes, give a vote, even by consent of parties,
when another judge is present; and the case cannot be brought to this
court upon a certificate of division of opinion between him and the other

judge.
2. An information for a forfeiture under the internal revenue laws cannot be
brought from the Circuit Court to this court by appeal.

from tte Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Wisconsin.
This was an information, for the forfeiture of the right,
title, and interest of Severin Schulte in certain real estate on
which he carried on the business of a distiller, without having given bond as required by law, and with intent to deprive
the United States of the tax on the spirits distilled by him.
In the District Court, held by Judge Bunn, Bernard Embolt and Eliza Bergener appeared and answered as claimants
of the real estate under mortgages from Schulte. Upon the
trial it was found by special verdict that Schulte was guilty as
charged in the information, and that he held the legal title
to the real estate, subject to a mortgage to each of the claimants; judgment was given that the mortgages constituted no
lien or incumbrance against the United States, and that all the
real estate be forfeited ; and the claimants appealed to the
Circuit Court.
In the Circuit Court, held by Mr. Justice Harlan and Judge
Bunn, the judgment was reversed ; and a certificate, signed by
Mr. Justice Harlan only, was entered of record, stating that the
hearing upon the special verdict found in the District Court'
was, by consent of parties, had before the circuit justice and
the district judge, and that they were divided in their opinion
on the question whether, upon the facts found in the special
verdict, the United States was entitled to judgment forfeiting
the property described in the information to the use of the
United States, except subject to the interest and claim of the
claimants, as set out in their answers.
From the judgment of the Circuit Court the district attorAPPEAL

Oct. 1881.]

UNITED

STATES v. EMHOLT.

ney, on behalf of the United States, claimed an appeal to this
court, which was allowed.
The Solicitor-General for the United States.
Mr. George I. Jiazelton and Air. S. U. Pinney, contra.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
This court has no jurisdiction of the question certified. The
office and object of a certificate of division of opinion are to
bring to this court for determination a question of law upon
which the opinions of two judges, competent to take part in
the judgment of the Circuit Court, are opposed to each other.
By the provisions of sect. 4 of the act of Sept. 24, 1789, c. 20,
and of sect. 5 of the act of April 29, 1802, c. 31, re-enacted in
the Revised Statutes, sect. 614, upon the hearing in the Circuit Court of an appeal from a judgment of the District Court,
the district judge who rendered the decision appealed from,
although he may, for the information of the Circuit Court,
assign his reasons for that decision, is prohibited from voting
or taking part in the judgment of the Circuit Court, and that
judgment is to be entered according to the opinion of the
judge who is not so disqualified. The provision of sect. 2 of
the act of March 2, 1867, c. 185, also incorporated in the same
section of the Revised Statutes, which, in order to prevent failure or delay of justice, permits such a case, by consent of parties, to be heard and disposed of by the district judge when
alone holding the Circuit Court, has no application when
another judge is present. And the provisions of sect. 6 of the
act of April 29, 1802, c. 31, and of sect. 1 of the act of June 1,
1872, e. 255, embodied in sects. 650, 652, 693, 697, of the Revised Statutes, do not enlarge the authority of the district judge
in this respect. It necessarily follows that the case cannot be
brought to this court upon a certificate of division of opinion
between the judge who is qualified and the judge who is disqualified to take part in the judgment. United States v. Lan,
caster, 5 Wheat. 434 ; Nelson v. Carland, 1 How. 265.
The case cannot be treated as before this court on the ap.
peal from the Circuit Court, without regard to the certificate
of division, because it is on the common-law side of that court.

HITCHCOCK V. BUCHANAN.

[Sup. Ct.

If it is to be considered as a civil action, the proper mode of
bringing it up is by writ of error, and not by appeal. Bevins
v. Ramsey, 11 How. 185; Jones v. La 5allette, 5 Wall. 579.
If, according to Clifton v. United States (4 How. 242, 250),
it should be treated as in the nature of a criminal proceeding,
it is hard to see how it could be brought to this court at all,
except upon a certificate of division of opinion. Ex parte
Gordon, 1 Black, 503.
Neither the consent of parties nor the allowance of the appeal in the court appealed from can enable this court to review
the judgment of that court in any other form of proceeding
than the law prescribes. Kelsey v. Forsyth, 21 How. 85;
Callan v. May, 2 Black, 541.
This court having no jurisdiction of the case, the appeal
must be dismissed, and the case
Remanded to the Circuit Court.

HITCHCOCK V. BUCHANAN.
1. A bill of exchange, headed " Office of Belleville Nail Mill Co.," and concluding, "charge same to account of Belleville Nail Mill Co., A. B., Pres't, C. 1).,
Sec'y," is the bill of the company, and not of the individual signers; and a
declaration thereon against the latter as drawers, setting forth the instrument, and alleging it to be their bill of exchange, is bad on demurrer.

2. A statute prohibiting defendants, in an action upon a written instrument, from
denying their signatures, except under plea verified by affida.vit, does not
apply to a case in which they demur because the instrument declared on
appears upon its face to be the contract of their principal and not of
themselves.

EnroR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Illinois.
This was an action of assumpsit by Hitchcock as indorsee,
against Buchanan and Waugh as drawers, of the following bill
of exchange:
"OFFICE

-

OF BELLEVILLE NAIL MILL Co., BELLEVILLE, ILLS.,

Dec. 15th, 1875.
"$5,477.13.
"Four months after date, pay to the order of John Stevens, Jr., cashier, fifty-four hunidred and seventy-seven

11Uo dol-

