RAILROAD

Co. v.

ELLEHMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

soon as the patent was read. Therefore, as said by Mr. Justice Bradley in delivering the opinion of this court in a similar
case, Miller v. Brass Company (104 U. S. 350), if any correction was desired it should have been applied for immediately;

the right to havQ the correction made was abandoned and lost
by unreasonable delay. That case is apposite and is conclusive of this.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN did not sit in this case, nor take any

part in deciding it.

RAILROAD COMPANY v.

ELLERMAN.

1. By its charter and the statutes of Louisiana the city of New Orleans was
authorized to erect and maintain wharves within its limits, and to collect
wharfage. field, that no right of the city was infringed by a subsequent
enactment of the General Assembly of that State granting to a railroad
company the authority to enclose and occupy for its purposes and uses a
specifically described portion of the levee and batture, and maintain the
wharf it theretofore erected on its property within those limits, and exempting it from the supervision and control which the municipal authorities
exercise in the matter of public wharves.
2. The question as to whether the comipany, in constructing, pursuant to such
authority, the wharf on its property, and collecting wharfage, acted ultra
vires, cannot be raised by a claimant under the city who is not a stockholder,
and whose rights have not been infringed.
APPEAL

from the Circuit Court of the United States for the

District of Louisiana.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. John S. Cadwalader and Mr. Thomas L. Bayne for the
appellants.
Mr. Charles N. Hornor for the appellee.
MATTHEWS delivered the opinion of the court.
The New Orleans, Mobile, and Texas Railroad Company,
one of the appellants, and the principal defendant below, is a

MR. JUSTICE

corporation of the State of Alabama, by the original namne of

the New Orleans, Mobile, and Chattanooga Railroad Company,
which has constructed a line of railroad from Mobile to New

Oct. 1881.]

RAILROAD

Co. v.

ELLERMAN.

Orleans. It was authorized by its charter "to obtain by purchase or grant from any person or corporation, and afterwards
maintain, manage, use, and enjoy, any railroad property, and
the appurtenances thereto, or any steamboats, piers, wharves,
and the appurtenances thereto, that the directors may deem
necessary, profitable, and convenient for the corporation to
own, use, and manage in connection with its railroads." Session Acts of Alabama, 1866.
The General Assembly of Louisiana, on Aug. 16, 1868,
passed an act which recognized the company as a body corporate, and authorized it to exercise its franchises in Louisiana, and expressly conferred upon it power " to construct,
establish, or purchase in the State of Louisiana, and thereafter
to own, maintain, and use, suitable wharves, piers, warehouses,
steamboats, harbors, depots, stations, and other works and
appurtenances connected with and incidental to said railroad
and the business of said company, and by the directors of said
company deemed necessary and expedient for said company to
own and manage.
In 1869 that State further enacted " that the said company,
with the consent of the owners of lands fronting on any navigable watercourse, or after such lands have been acquired by
the company by purchase, release, donation, or in any other
manner, in accordance with the laws of the State of Louisiana,
may erect, construct, and thereafter maintain and use wharves,
warehouses, depots, or other buildings and structures in and
upon the margins, or upon that portion of the margins reserved
to public use, of any and all navigable rivers, bayous, or watercourses in the State of Louisiana, wherever the same may be
deemed, by a majority of the directors of the company, necessary and requisite for the legitimate and convenient transaction
of the business of the company."
On March 6, 1869, the General Assembly of Louisiana
passed a joint resolution, having the force of law, granting, to
the company "t h e right to enclose and occupy for its purposes
and uses, in such manner as the directors of said company may
determine, that portion of the levee, batture, and wharf in the
city of New Orleans, between the street laid out between Pilie
Street and the Mississippi River, and from Calliope Street to

RAILROAD

Co. v.

ELLERiMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

the lower line (about three hundred and fifty-five feet below
Calliope Street) of the batture rights owned by said company,
and no steamship or other vessel shall occupy or.lie at said
wharf, or receive or discharge cargo thereat, except by and
with the consent of said company; and all steamships or vessels discharging or receiving cargo at said wharf for said company, or any steamships or vessels using said wharf, by and
with the consent of said company, and not receiving or discharging cargo at or occupying any other wharf in the city of
New Orleans, shall be exempt from payment of all levee and
wharf dues to the city of New Orleans. Said wharf shall be
maintained and kept in repair by said company." All laws
and parts of laws, and all ordinances and parts of ordinances,
conflicting with the provisions of the joint resolution were
thereby repealed.
At the date of the passage of the joint resolution the company was the owner by previous purchase of the land described
in it, and in possession, using it for the purposes of a depot and
for other railroad purposes, and as a wharf, appropriate structures having been built for that use. A portion of this property was leased in June, 1875, by the receivers of the railroad,
appointed under proceedings to foreclose, for twelve months,
at the sun of $7,200, to Roberts and Witherspoon, who were
made defendants to the bill, the use and employment of the
wharf granted by such lease consisting "in the mooring of
vessels coming to the consignment, custody, or care of the
parties of the second part (the lessees) or to either of them,
Mid the loading and unloading of cargoes upon all vessels of
this kind with the full consent of the parties of the first part,
exempt from wharf and levee dues, according to the terms of
the said resolution."
The object of tile bill filed by Ellerman, the appellee, was
to enjoin the execution of this contract, and the use and employmnent of the wharf described therein in the manner contemplated by it. His claim is based on a contract between
himself and the city of New Orleans, entered into June 29,
1875. It purports to be a grant from the city to him, for a
term of four years and eleven months from the date of the
contract for building and repairing the wharves and levees

Oct. 1881.]

RAILROAD

Co. v.

ELLERM1AN.

according to certain specifications on file, and for the payment
of debts contracted on account of them, and for transferring
the revenues of the same for the said term, agreeably to the
terms of a certain ordinance and resolution of the city, all
which are set out in the contract. The specifications state
the particulars of the required repairs and extensions of the
wharves. The subject-matter of the ordinance is declared to
be the sale of "the revenues of the wharves and levees of the
city of New Orleans, collectible under existing ordinances
upon all ships, vessels, steamships, stamboats, flatboats, and
water-craft of any and every description, upon the terms and
conditions" therein set forth. The purchaser was to assume
certain specified liabilities of the city, connected with the
wharves, and it was provided that the sale should be awarded
to the bidder who would assume to discharge the obligations
set forth, in consideration of the transfer of the revenues assigned, in the shortest time. The purchaser should be subrogated to all the rights and privileges of the city, to sue for
and collect the revenues; and it was understood and agreed
that " the city only undertakes to transfer only such rights as
she possesses, and the purchaser takes the said revenues subject to all the rights now held by other persons by way of
lease, privilege, contract, or by law, and the purchaser shall,
in reference to them, be subrogated only to the rights of the
city." It was provided that the purchaser should take possession of the wharves, landings, and levees in the condition in
which the same might be at the time, and should repair the
same and keep them in good order and condition during the
term stipulated. It was further provided that if, from over.powering force, the city should not be able to protect the
transferee in receiving the said revenues, or if they should by
any such cause be diminished over one-third, the transferee
might, after satisfying all obligations incurred under the contract up to the time, surrender it and be discharged from fur.ther responsibility ; but the city, it was expressly declared, in
nowise guaranteed the payment of the wharfage and levee
dues, the collection of which is to be enforced by the transferee at his own cost.
The wharves and levees which constitute the subject-matter

RAILROAD

Co. v.

ELLERMaAN.

[Sup. Ct.

of this arrangement consisted of artificial improvements made
at the expense of the city, by grading, and by driving piles
which are securely fastened, and covered by a plank flooring,
so as to furnish safe and convenient landings and moorings for
water-craft, and places for loading and unloading their cargoes.
Provision was made not only for keeping in repair the existing
works and structures, but the transferee of the revenues was
bound to build additional new wharves in certain specified districts of the city, if required to do so, not to exceed a named
sum per annum ; but if new wharves should be required in
other districts by the city council at their own or the request
of any other person, the party so desiring them should be
bound to pay for the cost thereof, and should be entitled to receive the revenues derived from such wharves during the term
of contract with the transferee, unless sooner reimbursed.
The claim of Ellerman is, that the administration of the
wharves and levees within the city limits is intrusted by law
to the municipal government ; that with this administration
is coupled a franchise, that the city may charge and receive
a reasonable remuneration for the expense of the facilities
afforded to commerce; that under this franchise the city expended out of its revenues very large sums on the wharves and
levees in permanent works and improvements for the benefit
of commerce; that, in consequence, it had a vested right in
the franchise and the revenues legitimately derived from these
expenditures, of which it could not be divested by an act of
the legislature, and that he, by virtue of his contract, is subrogated during its term to the rights of the city.
He further claims that it is a violation of these rights for
the defendants to permit the use and employment of their
property as a wharf, and to charge and receive wharfage for
such use, by and from persons not engaged in conducting the
proper business of the company, thus opening a rival wharf
business in competition with the city, and him as its lessee;
and that if the joint resolution of March 6, 1869, must be
construed so as to confer upon the company any such authority, it is hull and void, because contrary to that provision of
the Constitution of the United States which forbids the taking
of private property without due process of law.

Oct. 1881.]

ORAILROAD Co. v.

ELLERMAN.

It is not claimed that the city has ever used as a public
wharf the premises so occupied by the appellants, or made any
expenditures for works and constructions upon them ; and it is
admitted that all expenditures of that description which have
been made thereon have been at the cost of the railroad company.
A decree was rendered in the Circuit Court in favor of the
appellee, granting the relief prayed for, to review which this
appeal is prosecuted.
In the opinion of the circuit judge (2 Woods, 120), the case
turned upon the construction to be given to the joint resolution of March 6, 1869; and being of opinion, upon the authority of the decision of the Supreme Court of Louisiana in City
of New Orleans v. New Orleans, Mobile, & ChattanoogaRailroad Co. (27 La. Ann. 414), that this resolution conferred
upon the railroad company no right to charge wharfage dues
against vessels landing at said wharf which were in no way
connected with the business of the railroad company, and no
right to maintain a free wharf for such vessels, it was assumed
that the appellee had such an interest in the question as qualified him to maintain this suit and entitled him to the relief
prayed for.
City of New Orleans v. New Orleans, Mobile, J&Chattanooqa
Railroad Co. (supra) was a suit brought against the company
to recover a sum of money for levee dues charged against the
defendant for barges and flatboats belonging to it which were
lying at this wharf, and used in its business. The Supreme
Court of the State, in that case, decided that the joint resolution was not void for either of the reasons urged. It said:
1 The public servitude along the banks of rivers in Louisiana
is under the control of the General Assembly. C. C. 453, 455;
458. The right of the General Assembly to grant the right
to corporations or individuals to make and maintain wharves
has been long settled. 5 Ann. 661 ; 15 id. 577; 22 id. 545 ;
6 N. Y. 523 ; 26 id. 287. In the case now under consideration
the State granted the right to the riparian owner. This is
permissible. 1 Black, 1. Nor was the grant a donation of
public revenues to a private purpose. The grant is a license
to a railroad company to use its property on the river bank

RAlLI1OAD

Co. v.

ELLERMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

for public purposes, to wit, to facilitate the transaction of its
business with the public. It was the control by the legislature of a public servitude,"
The extent of the rights of the company tinder the joint
resolution - whether the use of the wharf was limited to
railroad purposes merely, or embraced all purposes- was a
point not involved in that case, nor decided either in express terms or by any fair inference. What that decision did
affirm, however, was, that the disposal of the public right
in the premises, as a wharf, was in the State, to the exclusion
of the city, so that if the joint resolution had been a cession
to a natural person, as riparian proprietor, to improve the
premises as a landing-place for water-craft, and for loading
and unloading cargoes, by building levees and wharves, at his
own expense, with the right to charge reasonable wharfage for
their use, it would have been conclusive upon the city and
those claiming in its right. And construing the grant to the
company as limiting the use of the property as a wharf, to
purposes strictly incident to its corporate business, still, in
order that it should be beneficial to that extent, it would be
essential that the company should have the right to exclude
all other uses; and this would effectually withdraw it from the
jurisdiction of the city authority over the general subject of
the public wharves.
Neither would this be in derogation of any vested right of
the city. Whatever powers the municipal body rightfully
enjoys over the subject is derived from the legislature. They
are merely administrative and may be revoked at any time,
not touching, of course, any property of the city actually
acquired in the course of administration. The sole ground of
the right of the city to collect wharfage at all is that it is a
reasonable compensation, which it is allowed by law to charge
for the actual use of structures provided at its expense for the
convenience of vessels engaged in the navigation of the river.
Cannon v. New Orleans, 20 Wall. 577.
And while it may be true, as was decided by the Supreme
Court of Louisiana in Ellerman v. MAcains (30 La. Ann., pt. 1,
190), that the city cannot lawfully be required to permit the tise
of its wharves, without compensation, on the ground that they

Oct. 1881.]

RAILROAD

Co. v.

ELLERIIAN.

are private property; it is equally true, as decided by the same
court in City of New Orleans v. Wilmot (31 La. Ann. 65), that
the city cannot forbid any water-craft from using the banks of
the navigable waters of the State for purposes of navigation
and commerce, and cannot compel them to pay to it wharfage
except for the use of wharves of which it is the proprietor.
The rights of the city in respect to this controversy would
seem, then, to be reduced to that of building levees and
wharves on the banks of the river within its corporate limits
for the public utility, with the exceptions established by paramount law, and collecting reasonable wharfage for the actual
use of such structures. Its right to build a wharf upon the
land of the company is, we have seen, excluded by the terms
of the joint resolution of March 6, 1869, according to its narrowest construction.
The sole remaining question then, is, whether Ellerman,
as assignee of the city, has any legal interest which entitles

him to enjoin the company from using its wharf as a public
wharf beyond the limits of such use, as defined by that construction of the joint resolution. If ie has such interest, it
can only consist in preventing competition with himself as a
wharfinger, which such more extensive use of the railroad
property would create. And if the right to assert it exists,
it must rest, not upon the claim that the premises are thus
used for purposes to which they might not be lawfully devoted if owned and used by a natural person, but on the allegation merely that such use is beyond the corporate powers
of the company. But if the competition in itself, however
injurious, is not a wrong of which he could complain against
a natural person, being te riparian proprietor, how does it
become so merely because the author of it is a corporation
The damage is attributable to the comacting ultra vires.
petition, and to that alone. But the competition is not illegal. It is not unlawful for any one to compete with the
company, although the latter may not be authorized to engage in the same business. The legal interest which qualifies
a complainant other than the State itself to sue in such a case
is a pecuniary interest in preventing the defendant from doing
an act where the injury alleged flows from its quality and

RAILROAD

Co. v.

ELLEIRMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

character as a breach of some legal or equitable duty. A
stockholder of the company has such an interest in restraining
it within the limits of the enterprise for which it was formed,
because that is to enforce his contract of membership. The
State has a legal interest in preventing the usurpation and
perversion of its franchises, because it is a trustee of its powers
for uses strictly public. In these questions the appellee has
no interest, and he cannot raise them in order, under that
cover, to create and protect a monopoly which the law does
not give him. The only injury of which he can be heard in
a judicial tribunal to complain is the invasion of some legal or
equitable right. If he asserts that the competition of the railroad company damages him, the answer is, that it does not
abridge or impair any such right. If lie alleges that the railroad company is acting beyond the warrant of the law, the
answer is, that a violation of its charter does not of itself injuriously affect any of his rights. The company is not shown
to owe him any duty which it has not performed.
This was the principle on which this court proceeded in the
case of City of Georgetown v. Alexandria Canal Co., 12 Pet.
91. It is applied in Mayor, &c. of Liverpool v. Chorley Waterworks Co., 2 De G., M. & G. 852; Stockport District Waterworks v. Mayor, Jc. qf Manchester, 9 Jur. N. s. 266; Pudsey
Coal Gas Co. v. Corporationof Bradford, Law Rep. 15 Eq. 167.
On this ground it is our opinion that the appellee failed to
allege and show any right to maintain his bill, which should,
therefore, have been dismissed. The decree will be accordingly reversed, with dii'ections to dismiss the bill; and it is
So ordered.
MR. JUSTICE WOODS dissented.

