BANTZ v. FRANTZ.

[Sup. Ct.

BANTZ V. FRANTZ.
1.Reissued letters-patent No. 4731, granted Feb. 6, 1872, to Gideon Bantz for an
improvement in boiler furnaces for burning wet fuel, are void, inasmuch as
the specification and claim attached to the original letters No. 26,616, which
bear date June 22, 1858, were confined to a combination therein described,

whilst the reissued letters cover the several elements of that combination
as distinct inventions.

2. If the first specification was defective in not asserting a separate claim for
each device, the right of the patentee to make the requisite correction was
(104 U. S. 350)
forfeited by his delay and laches. Miller v. Trss Co pmpa.
cited upon this point and reaffirmed.
APPEAL

from the Circuit Court of the United States for the

District of Kentucky.
On June 22, 1858, there was issued to Gideon Bantz, the
appellant, who was complainant in the court below, an original
patent of that date " for an improvement in furnaces for heatOn Feb. 6, 1872, Bantz obtained a reing steam-boilers."
issue, and on June 22, 1872, an extension for seven years of his
reissued patent.
The bill in this case was filed by bin on May 4, 1876, to
restrain infringement by the defendant, David Frantz, of the
extended reissue.
The answer denied the novelty and utility of the invention, denied infringement, and asserted the invalidity of the
reissue.
The Circuit Court dismissed the bill, and the case is brought
here by the complainant.
The specification of the original patent declared :
" The object of this invention is the more perfect combustion of'
tan, sawdust, bagasse, and all other kinds of refuse fuel in a wet or
dry state, as well as of wood or coal. It is, however, with particular advantage to the burning of wet fuels. My invention consists in the arrangement embracing, fbr united use in the mlanner
and for the purposes hereinafter specified, the following features,
to wit:
"First, two or more arched fire-chambers, with throats of less
area than their capacity; second, an auxiliary combustion reservoir
or chamber, with cima-re'ersashaped bottom and side draft-door;
third, a series of reverberatory chambers, with side draft-doors and

Oct. 1881.]

BANTZ V. FaN'rz.

passages at top for communication with each other; and, fourth, a
diving or direct flue leading into the chimney or smoke-stack.
"To enable others skilled in the art to make and use my invention, I will proceed to describe its construction and operation.
"A A are two arched fire-chambers, arranged side by side furnished with grates a a, having ash-pit 13 13 provided below the said
grates. These fire-chambers are not placed below the boiler, IT,
but directly in firont thereof; and longitudinally therewith. They
May, however, be placed at one side of the boiler or at any angle
to it. Each is provided with the usual door 6, but these are only
used for lighting the fires; and the ash-pits are provided with
doors c to regulate the supply of air through the grates, and permit
the cleaning out of'ashes. On the top of each chamber there are
feeders d d for supplying the fuel, but as these feeders are the same
as used in other furnaces, no particular description of them is necessary. The fire-chambers are covered with a flat floor built over the
arches, that the fuel may be wheeled to the Ieders in barrows, or
brought in any other convenient manner. At the rear end of each
fire-chamber there is a throat-like aperture e communicating with
what I term the reservoir C, which is built of' brick, lined with firebrick, under the front portion of the boiler, and which has a1
concave bottom m and convex back n, which are formed by a cinlareversa shaped plate. By having the bottom and back of the reservoir formed byacihna-reversashaped plate, thc throat e is not partially
closed up, as it would be if the plate was straight and set inclined,
and, beside this, the heated products of combustion are made to hug
the bottom of the boiler, and as the draft is at this point, the perfect
combustion of partially ignited gases is insured. The convex back
of the reservoir terminates in and serves as a brido-e-wall, and has a
concave top so formed as to leave a space, o, of but three or four
inches between it and the boiler.
"The purpose of the reservoir will be presently explained. In
rear of the bridge-wallf there is a series of reverberatory-ehambers
D D D, two, three, or more, one behind the other, the series extending nearly as far as the rear end of the boiler, and the said
chambers being severally separated by bridge-walls, .q g, and each
chamber being provided with one or more doors It,in either or both
sides, for the purpose of admitting air in sufficient quantities either
to complete the combustion of the gases from the fire-chambers or
to check the draft. The reservoir is furnished with a door h', for a
similar purpose as those l / in the reverberatory-chamber. At the
rear of the hindmost reverberatory-chamber there is a wall ql, like
VoL. xv.

11

BANTZ V. FRANTZ.

[Sup. Ct.

g y, behind which there is a diving or drop flue E leading to the
chimney.
" The operation of the furnace is as follows: The gaseous prodnets of the combustion in the fire-chamber A A escape by the
throats e e into the reservoir C, where they mingle together, and
the combustible portion thereof becomes ignited, and where their
heat acts upon the boiler, and from whence they pass into one after
another of the reverberatory-chambers, in each of which a portion
of their heat is abstracted by contact with a portion of the boiler, and
finally they descend the flue E to the chimney. The effect of the
principal portion of my improvement, which consists in the employment of the reservoir C, connected with the fire-ehambers by the
throats e e, of much smaller transverse area than the fire-chamber,
is that the products of combustion and heat are prevented leaving
the fire-chamber too rapidly, and the said chambers are consequently caused to be heated to an intense degree, and a very nearly
perfect combustion of the fuel is obtained therein, and when the gaseous products of combustion leave the fire-chambers by the said
throats and arrive in the reservoir C, the side walls and curved
bottom and back of which are kept at a white heat, the still
combustible portion of the gaseous products is ignited under the
boiler."
The claim was thus stated: "What I claim as my invention, and desire to secure by lettersPatent, is: the arrangement of fire-chambers A A, contracted
throats e e, auxiliary combustion-reservoir C, with the cihma-reversa
bridge-plate m n, and the door I', reverberatory-ehambers D D,
with doors h h, and the diving or direct flue E, substantially as and
for the purposes set forth."
The description of the invention in the specification of the
reissued patent is substantially the same as that in the specification of the original patent. The drawings are identical.
In the reissue the invention is called "a new and useful imThe claim is
provement in furnaces for burning wet fuel."
thus set forth : "I do not claim a furnace for burning wet fuel, broadly, nor the
use of a series of fire-chambers connecting with the common flue,
arranged between the furnace and the boiler, as I am well aware
that this has been done before.

Oct. 1881.]

BANTZ V. FIRANTZ.

"Having described my invention, I claim "1. In a furnace for burning wet fuels, having two or more
single fire-chambers not arranged under the boiler, the combustionchamber or reservoir C, arranged above the top of said firechambers, and located directly under the front end of the boiler,
essentially as described.
",2. The cima-reversa bottom 27 n of the combustion-chamber or
reservoir C, in combination with the narrow throats e of the separate
fire-chambers, and the narrow exit flue o of the bridge-walls J; for
the purpose essentially as described.
" In combination with the combustion-chamber or reservoir C,
arranged and located as described, I claim the side door or doors h'
for the admission of atmospheric air, foir the purpose described.
"4. In combination with a series of fire-chambers, A, and the
combustion-chamber or reservoir C, located and arranged directly
beneath the f'ont end of the boiler, and above the crown of said
fire-chamber, I claim a series of reverberatory-chambers, D, provided
with side-doors h, and a diving-flue, E, at the rear end of the boiler,
to hold the heat beneath the same throughout its entire length, and
to arrest and deaden the sparks as described.
"5.
In a furnace for burning wet fuels in which the firechambers are not arranged under the boiler, I claim the arrangement of the boiler upon the rear wall of the furnace and the rear
wall of the diving-flue E, fbr the purpose of obtaining the full advantage of the heat of the walls of the furnace, and of the divingflue, as described.
"6. In a furnace for burning wet fuels, having a flat top, and supplied through openings therein, I claim the dead-chambers, arranged
between the floor and the arches of the fire-chambers, for the purpose of maintaining the top of the furnace cool for the workingmen
as described."
The figures on page 164 were annexed to the specification.
Mr. Arthur Stem for the appellant.

Mr. William A. Maury and Mr. Lewis N. Dembitz for the
appellee.
MR. JUSTICE WOODS,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
We are clearly of opinion that the reissued patent is void.
It is evident on a cursory reading of the specification and

[Sup. Ct.

]BANTZ V. FRANTZ.

claim of the original patent that it was meant to cover a combination of the several contrivances therein described, and not
to cover the several elements of the combination as distinct
inventions. No claim is made for the several parts of which
the furnace is constructed, but for the "arrangement embracing, for united use in the manner and for the purposes specified,
the following features," &c.
If the claim had been for the several distinct contrivances
of which the furnace is composed, as claimed in the reissue,
the original patent would not have been granted, because the
evidence in the record shows that at least the sixth claim in
the reissued patent, for dead-chambers over the arches of the
fire-chambers, was distinctly covered by the patent of Moses
Thompson, dated April 10, 1855, for an improvement in burnFric I

Fir. 2

FiG.3.

Oct. 1881.]

OANTZ

V. FRANTZ.

ing tan-bark, bagasse, sawdust, or other kinds of fuel in a wet
state, for the purpose of creating heat to generate steam, &c.
This the drawings accompanying the specification of Thompson's patent clearly show.
It is evident, therefore, that if the appellant had, in his application for the original patent, claimed as his own invention
all the distinct devices described in the specification, he could
not have obtained his patent in its present form. It could
have been only on the ground that his claim was for a combination that it was allowed and the patent issued. Prouty v.
Draper, 1 Story, 568; Pitts v. Whitman, 2 id. 609; Prouty
v. Rugyles, 16 Pet. 336.
If the reissued patent is valid the appellant could maintain
an action against the infringer of any one of the separate
claims covered by it. Under the original patent, suit could be
maintained only against those who employed the combination
embracing all the distinct contrivances described in the reissued patent. The reissue is, therefore, broader than the original patent, and is, under the circumstances of this case, void.
The act of July 8, 1870, c; 230 (16 Stat. 198), was in force
when the reissue was granted. Section 53 (Rev. Stat., sect.
4916) declares " that whenever any patent is inoperative or
invalid by reason of a defective or insufficient specification, or
by reason of the patentee claiming as his own invention or
discovery more than he had a right to claim as new, if the
error has arisen by inadvertence, accident, or mistake, and
without a1iy fraudulent or deceptive intention, the conmmissioner shall, on the surrender of such patent and the payment
of the duty required by law, cause a new patent for the same
invention, and in accordance with the corrected specification,
to be issued to the patentee."
In this case the original patent bears date June 22, 1858.
The reissue bears date Feb. 6, 1872, more than thirteen years
and six months after the date, and less than five months before the expiration, of the original patent. If the specification
in the original patent was defective or insufficient in claiming
a combination of several devices instead of making a distinct
claim for every device which entered into the combination, the
fact was instantly discernible, even to an unpractised eye, as

RAILROAD

Co. v.

ELLEHMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

soon as the patent was read. Therefore, as said by Mr. Justice Bradley in delivering the opinion of this court in a similar
case, Miller v. Brass Company (104 U. S. 350), if any correction was desired it should have been applied for immediately;

the right to havQ the correction made was abandoned and lost
by unreasonable delay. That case is apposite and is conclusive of this.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN did not sit in this case, nor take any

part in deciding it.

RAILROAD COMPANY v.

ELLERMAN.

1. By its charter and the statutes of Louisiana the city of New Orleans was
authorized to erect and maintain wharves within its limits, and to collect
wharfage. field, that no right of the city was infringed by a subsequent
enactment of the General Assembly of that State granting to a railroad
company the authority to enclose and occupy for its purposes and uses a
specifically described portion of the levee and batture, and maintain the
wharf it theretofore erected on its property within those limits, and exempting it from the supervision and control which the municipal authorities
exercise in the matter of public wharves.
2. The question as to whether the comipany, in constructing, pursuant to such
authority, the wharf on its property, and collecting wharfage, acted ultra
vires, cannot be raised by a claimant under the city who is not a stockholder,
and whose rights have not been infringed.
APPEAL

from the Circuit Court of the United States for the

District of Louisiana.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. John S. Cadwalader and Mr. Thomas L. Bayne for the
appellants.
Mr. Charles N. Hornor for the appellee.
MATTHEWS delivered the opinion of the court.
The New Orleans, Mobile, and Texas Railroad Company,
one of the appellants, and the principal defendant below, is a

MR. JUSTICE

corporation of the State of Alabama, by the original namne of

the New Orleans, Mobile, and Chattanooga Railroad Company,
which has constructed a line of railroad from Mobile to New

