THE " SCOTLAND.[

[Sup. Ct.

We are of opinion that the question of the repeal of the
charter of the Marginal Company is to be decided by the construction of the general statute, whose effect and history we
have discussed.

These considerations require the affirmance of the decree of
the Circuit Oourt sustaining the demurrer to appellant's bill.
-Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY

did not sit in this case, nor take any

part in deciding it.

THE "SCOTLAND."
1. The act of March 3, 1851, c. 43, reproduced in the Revised Statutes in sects.
4282, &c., applies to owners of foreign as well as domestic vessels; and
to acts done on the high seas as well as in waters of the United States,
except when a collision occurs between two vessels of the same foreign
nation, or perhaps of two foreign nations having the same maritime law.
2. The maritime law of the United States, as found in the statute, is the same
as the general maritime law of Europe, and is different from that of Great
Britain in this, that the former gauges the liability by the value of the
ship and freight after loss or injury, and the latter by their value before
the loss or injury, not exceeding £15 per ton.
3. The maritime law is only so far operative as law in any country as it is
adopted by the laws and usages of that country. The principles laid
1d
l,
(13 Wall. 104), and in
down on this subject in Norwich Coq ,,y v.
The Lottawana (21 id. 558), reasserted and affirmed.
4. The courts of every country will administer justice according to its laws,
unless a different law be shown to apply; and this rule applies to transactions taking place on the high seas. If a collision occur on the high seas
between two vessels, controversies arising therefrom will be governed in
the courts of this country by our laws, unless the two colliding ships belong to the same foreign country, or perhaps to different countries using
the same law, when they will be governed by the laws of the country to
which they belong.
5. Ship-owners may avail themselves of the defence of limited responsibility by
answer or plea as well as by the form of proceeding prescribed by the rules
of this court, at least so far as to obtain protection against the libell'nts or
plaintiffs in the suit. Those rules were not intended to restrict them, but
to aid them in bringing into concourse those having claims against them
arising from the acts of the master or crew.
6. If the owners plead the statute, a decree may be made requiring them to pay
into court the limited amount for which they are liable, and distributing

Oct. 1881.]

THE " SCOTLAND."

said amount pro rata amongst the parties claiming damages. Such a proceeding in a court of admiralty would be an "appropriate proceeding"
under the statute.
7. It is not necessary that ship-owners should surrender and transfer the ship
in order to claim the benefit of the law. That is only one mode of relief.
They may plead their immunity, and, if found in, or confessing, fault, may
abide a decree against them for the value of ship and freight as found by

the proofs.
8. The rule of damages, in case of goods lost or destroyed on tme high seas by
the fault of those in charge, is the price or value of the goods at the place
of shipment, with all charges of lading, insurance, 'rd transportation, and
interest at six per cent per annum, but without any allowance for anticipated profits.
9. When the goods have no market value at the place of shipment, resort may
be had to other means of ascertaining their actual value, such as the price
which they usually bring at the port of destination, with a fair deduction
for profits and charges.

APPEALS from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Eastern District of New York.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

The case was argued by Mr. William Allen Butler, with
whom was Mr. Thomas X. Stillman and Mr. John Chetwood,
for the " Scotland," and by Mr. James C. Carter and Mr. Robert D. Benedict, with whom was Mr. Joseph H. Choate, for the
libellants.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

The steamship " Scotland," belonging to the National Steam
Navigation Company, a corporation of Great Britain, sailed
from New York for Liverpool, on the 1st of December, 1866,
with freight and passengers; and after reaching the high sea,
opposite Fire Island light, ran into the American ship " Kate
Dyer," bound from Callao, in the republic of Peru, to New
York, laden with a cargo of guano. The " Kate Dyer" immediately sank, and ship and cargo were totally lost. The
steamship suffered so severely from the collision that she put
back, but was unable to get further than the middle ground outside and south of Sandy Hook, where she also sank and became
a total loss, with the exception of some stripping of ship's material, consisting of anchors, chains, rigging, and cabin furniture
got from her by the Coast Wrecking Company before she went
down. Libels in personam were filed in the District Court for

THE " SCOTLAND."

[Sup. Ct.

the Eastern District of New York, against the Steam Navigation Company by the owners of the "1Kate Dyer," the Peruvian government, owner of her cargo, and by a passenger and
some of the crew who lost certain effects by the sinking of the
ship. Personal service of process not being obtainable, the
marshal attached another vessel belonging to the steamship
company, lying in the port of New York, which was duly
claimed and released on stipulation, and the steamship company appeared and responded to the libel. The answer admitted the collision, but denied that the " Scotland " was in
fault, and further alleged as follows: "Respondents further
answering say, that said steamer ' Scotland' was by said collision sunk and destroyed, and that there is no liability in personata against these respondents for said loss of the ' Kate
Dyer.'" Proofs being taken, the District Court rendered a
decree in favor of the libellants, which, on appeal to the Circuit Court, was substantially affirmed. The owners of the
"Kate Dyer" were awarded $56,000, with interest; the owners
of the cargo, $57,375, with interest; and the passengers and
crew, upwards of $11,000, with interest.
On the trial in the Circuit Court, the respondents, besides
contesting the question of fault and general liability, again
insisted upon the benefit of the limited liability law, and proposed for adoption by the court a certain finding of fact and
conclusion of law looking to that end. The finding of fact
was substantially adopted by the court as follow's: " The steamer was, by reason of the said collision and in consequence thereof, so injured that, although at once put about,
she could only reach the ' outer middle,' so called, on the west
side of the channel south of Sandy Hook, where she sank and became a total loss, except that a large amount of anchors, chains,
rigging, and cabin furniture, of the value of several thousand
dollars, was saved from her and delivered to the agent of the
respondents. She earned no freight, the voyage being broken
up. The passage-money paid in advance by the passengers
was $1,703.65; of this $225 was refunded to such of them as
could not wait to be transported by the respondents in another
vessel of their line ; the remaining passengers were forwarded
by the ' Queen,' and the expense charged to the ' Scotland.'

Oct. 1881.]

THE "SCOTLAND."

Irrespective of the carriage of the passengers by the ' Queen,'
the respondents paid return money as above, $225, and the expenses of bringing the passengers to New York, and taking care
of then before they were reshipped, $566.83, in all, $791.83;
the balance of the passage-money, $911.82, was credited to the
'Queen' and charged to the ' Scotland.'"
The conclusion of law proposed and insisted on by the respondents as legitimately arising upon this fact was as follows,
to wit :" The liability of the respondents, as owners of the said
steamship ' Scotland,' did not extend beyond the value of
their interest in the vessel and her pending freight at the
time of the collision ; and the vessel having been lost by the
collision, and no freight or passage money earned, the respondents are thereby discharged from any liability on account
thereof."
The Circuit Court, as before stated, refused any relief
grounded on the limited liability law, but made a decree
against the respondents for the total amount of damages sustained by the various parties in interest. To this conclusion
the respondents excepted.
Both parties appealed from the decree, and the case is now
before us for review. The appeal of the libellants was based
on what they supposed to be an erroneous conclusion of the
court in reference to the allowance of interest, and the estimation of the value of the cargo.
The principal question raised and argued on this appeal is,
whether the steamship company is entitled to the benefit of a
limited responsibility equal to the value of the steamship and
freight after the collision occurred,- a liability which, in this
case, as the vessel and freight were a total loss, would only
amount to the value of the articles saved by the wrecking
company. It is contended by the company that it is entitled
to the benefit of such limitation, either under the general maritime law or under the act of Congress of March 3, 1851, c, 43.
On the other side, it is contended that the general maritime
law on this subject (if there be any) is not in force in this
country, and that the benefit of the act of Congress cannot be
claimed by foreign vessels. It is fuyther contended by the

THE " SCOTLAND."

[Sup. Ct.

libellants that the steamship company, even if it might have
had the benefit of the rule, failed to take the proper steps
for obtaining it, -first, in not filing a petition according to
the rules of this court; and, secondly, in not surrendering the
property recovered fiom the wreck, or its proceeds.
In the case of Norwich Company v. Wright (13 Wall. 104)
we had occasion to state that the general maritime law of
Europe only charges innocent owners to the extent of their interest in the ship for the acts of the master and crew, and that
if the ship is lost their liability is at an end. This rule is laid
down in several places in the ancient code called the Consolato
del Mare, and in many other authorities which are quoted and
commented upon by Judge Ware in the case of The Rebecca
(Ware, 187) ; and it is specifically formulated in various
national ordinances and codes, amongst others, in the Marine
Ordinance of Louis XIV., adopted in 1681. Emerigon, in his
treatise of Contracts "a la Grosse," says : " The owners of the
ship are bound in solidum by everything which the captain
does in the course of the voyage for the promotion of the voyage. . . But this action in solidum does not exist against the
owners farther than according to the interest which they have
in the body of the ship; hence, if the ship perish, or if they
abandon their interest, they are no longer liable for anything.
It is thus that the maritime laws of the Middle Age have directed ; such is the law which is observed in the North ; and
such is the regulation of our own ordinance : " and lie refers to
the Consolato and other authorities. The text of the French
ordinance, which is regarded as merely formulating the old
customary law, is as follows: " The owners of ships are responsible for the acts of the master, but they become discharged
therefrom by abandoning the ship and freight."
But whilst this is the rule of the general maritime law of
Europe, it was not received as law in England nor in this
country until made so by statute. The English statutes, indeed, have not yet adopted, to its full extent, the maritime law
on this subject. They make the owners responsible to the
value of ship and freight at the time of the injury (that is,
immediately before the injury), although the ship be destroyed,

or injured by the.same act, or afterwards in the same voyage;

Oct. 1881.]

THE " SCOTLAND."

whilst our law adopts the maritime rule of graduating the liability by the value of the ship after the injury, as she comes
back into port, and the freight actually earned; and enables
the owners to avoid .all responsibility by giving up ship and
freight, if still in existence, in whatever condition the ship may
be; and, without such surrender, subjects them only to a responsibility equivalent to the value of the ship and freight as
rescued from the disaster.
But, whilst the rule adopted by Congress is the same as the
rule of the general maritime law, its efficacy as a rule depends
upon the statute, and not upon any inherent force of the maritime law. As explained in The Lottwimna (21 Wall. 558),
the maritime law is only so far operative as law in any country
as it is adopted by the laws and usages of that country; and
this particular rule of the maritime law had never been adopted
in this country until it was enacted by statute. Therefore,
whilst it is now a part of our maritime law, it is, nevertheless,
statute law, and must be interpreted and administered as such.
Then, does it govern the present case ?
In administering justice between parties it is essential to
know by what law, or code, or system of laws, their mutual
rights are to be determined. When they arise in a particular
country or State, they are generally to be determined by the
laws of that State. Those laws pervade all transactions which
take place where they prevail, and give them their color and
legal effect.
Hence, if a collision should occur in British
waters, at least between British ships, and the injured party
should seek relief in our courts, we would administer justice
according to the British law, so far as the rights and liabilities
of the parties were concerned, provided it were shown what
that law was. If not shown, we would apply our own law to
the case. In the French or Dutch tribunals they would do the
same. But, if a collision occurs on the high seas, where the
law of no particular State has exclusive force, but all are equal,
any forum called upon to settle the rights of the parties would
)ri'ma facie determine them by its own law as presumptively
expressing the rules of justice; but if the contesting vessels
belonged to the same foreign nation, the court would assume
that they were subject to the law of their nation carried under

THE "SCOTLAND."

[Sup. Ct.

their common flag, and would determine the controversy accordingly. If they belonged to different nations, having different laws, since it would be unjust to apply the laws of either to
the exclusion of the other, the law of the forum, that is, the
maritime law as received and practised therein, would properly
furnish the rule of decision. In all other cases, each nation
will also administer justice according to its own laws. And it
will do this without respect of persons, to the stranger as well
as to the citizen. If it be the legislative will that any particular privilege should be enjoyed by its own citizens alone,
express provision will be made to that effect. Some laws, it is
true, are necessarily special in their application to domestic
ships, such as those relating to the forms of ownership, charterparty, and nationality; others follow the vessel wherever she
goes, as the law of the flag, such as those which regulate the
mutual relations of master and crew, and the power of the master to bind the ship or her owners. But the great mass of the
laws are, or are intended to be, expressive of the rules of justice and right applicable alike to all.
The act of Congress creating a limited responsibility of shipowners in certain cases, first passed March 3, 1851, and reproduced in sects. 4282-4289 of the Revised Statutes, is general in
its terms, extending to all owners of vessels without distinction
or discrimination. It declares that " the liability of the owner
of any vessel for any embezzlement, loss, or destruction, by any
person, of any property, goods, or merchandise, shipped or put
on board of such vessel, or for any loss, damage, or injury by
collision, or for any act, matter, or thing, loss, damage, or forfeiture, done, occasioned, or incurred, without the privity or
knowledge of such owner or owners, shall in no case exceed
the amount or value of the interest of such owner in such vessel, and her freight then pending." This statute declares the
rule which the law-making power of this country regards as
most just to be applied in maritime cases. The great carrying
trade by land is governed by substantially the same principle ;
being in the hands of corporate associations, whose members
are not personally liable for acts of the employds, but risk
only the amount of their capital stock in the corporation. The
doctrine of respondeat superior, it is true, applies to the cor-

Oct. 1881.]

P
THE

SCOTLAND."

porations themselves; but that does not interfere with the
personal immunity of the shareholders. Whenever the public
interest requires the employment of a great aggregation of capital, exposed to immense risk, some limitation of responsibility
is necessary in order that men may be induced to contribute to
the enterprise. As Grotius says, in reference to this very matter of ship-owners, " Men would be deterred from owning and
operating ships, if they were subject to the fear of an indefinite liability for the acts of the master." Jure B. & P., lib. 2,
c. 11, s. 13.
But it is enough to say, that the rule of limited responsibility
is now our maritime rule. It is the rule by which, through
the act of Congress, we have announced that we propose to
administer justice in maritime cases. We see no reason, inthe
absence of any different law governing the case, why it should
not be applied to foreign ships as well as to our own, whenever
the parties choose to resort to our courts for redress. Of
course the rule must be applied, if applied at all, as well when
it operates against foreign ships as when it operates in their
favor.
English cases have been cited to show that the courts of that
country hold that their statutes prior to 1862, which in generality of terms were similar to our own, did not apply to foreign
ships. See The 2ostra Signora de los Dolores, 1 Dod. 290;
The Carl Johan, cited in The Dundee, 1 Hagg. Adm. 109, 113;
The Girolamo, 3 id. 169, 186; The Zollverein, 1 Swa. 96; Cope
v. Doherty, 4 Kay & J. 367; s. o. 2 De G. & J. 614; The General Iron Screw Collier Co. v. Schurmanns, 1 John. & .-. 180;
The Wild Ranger, 1 Lush. 553. We have examined these
cases. So far as they stand on general grounds of argument,
the most important consideration seems to be this, that the
British legislature cannot be supposed to have intended to prescribe regulations to bind the subjects of foreign States, or
to make for them a law of the high sea; and that if it had
so intended, it could not have done it. This is very true. No
nation has any such right. Each nation, however, may declare
what it will accept and, by its courts, enforce as the law of
the sea, when parties choose to resort to its forum for redress.
And no persons subject to its jurisdiction, or seeking justice in

Tuii

"

SCOTLAND."

[Sup. Ct.

its courts, can complain of the determination of their rights by
that law, unless they can propound some other law by which
they ought to be judged; and this they cannot do except where
both parties belong to the same foreign nation ; in which case,
it is true, they may well claim to have their controversy settled
by their own law. Perhaps a like claim might be made where
the parties belong to different nations having the same system
of law. But where they belong to the country in whose forum
the litigation is instituted, or to different countries having different systems of law, the court will administer the maritime
law as accepted and used by its own sovereignty.
The English courts say that, as foreigners are not subject to
their law, nor 6ntitled to its benefits, they will resort to the
general law of general liability when foreigners are litigants
before them. Where do they find such general law? In the
law of nature? or the civil or common law? Is not the maritime law, as their own legislature or national authority has
adopted it, as imperative as either of these ? Does it not, in
the British judicial conscience, stand for the law of nature, or
general justice? As for the civil and common laws, they are
only municipal laws where they have the force of laws at all.
The better grounds for the English decisions seem to be the
peculiar terms of the acts of Parliament on the subject, and
the supposed policy of those acts, as being intended for the
encouragement of the British marine. From these considerations, as grounds of construction, the conclusion may have
been properly deduced that the law was intended to be confined to British ships. The question, it is true, has ceased to
be of practical importance in England, since the act of 1862
(25 & 26 Viet., c. 63), by which the owners of any ship,
British or foreign, are not to be answerable, without their
actual fault or privity, for any loss or damage to person or
property, to an amount exceeding X15 per ton of the ship's
registered tonnage, or its equivalent in case of foreign ships.
But the former English decisions are thought to have a bearing on our law, because the acts of Parliament to which they
related, in their principal clauses, were conceived in the Same
broad and general terms as our act of Congress. Some of the
clauses of the British acts, however, relating to registered ton-

Oct. 1881.]

THE "SCOTLAND."

nage and other particulars, admitted only a special application
to British ships; and perhaps these clauses (lid require a
restricted construction of the whole acts to such ships.
But there is no demand for such a narrow construction of
our statute, at least of that part of it which prescribes the general rule of limited responsibility of ship-owners. And public
policy, in our view, requires that the rules of the maritime law
as accepted by the United States should apply to all alike, as
far as it can properly be done. If there are any specific provisions of our law which cannot be applied to foreigners, or
foreign ships, they are not such as interfere with the operation
of the general rule of limited responsibility. That rule, and
the mode of enforcing it, are equally applicable to all. They
are not restricted by the terms of the statute to any nationality or domicile. We think they should not be restricted by
construction. Our opinion, therefore, is that in this case the
National Steamship Company was entitled to the benefit of the
law of limited responsibility.
But it is objected that the appellants did not properly, and
in due time, claim the benefit of the law. Under this head it
is strenuously contended that the appellants did not comply
ith the rules of this court adopted in December Term, 1871.
Without adverting to the fact that these rules were not in
existence until long after this litigation had been pending, we
may say, once for all, that they were not intended to restrict
parties claiming the benefit of the law, but to aid them. Some
form of proceeding was necessary to enable ship-owners to bring
into concourse the various parties claiming damages against
them for injusies sustained by mishaps to the ship or cargo,
where they were entitled, or conceived themselves entitled, to
the law of limited responsibility, and where they were subjected or liable to actions for damages at the suit of the parties
thus injured. The rules referred to were adopted for the putpose of formulating a proceeding that would give full protection
to the ship-owners in such a case. They were not intended to
prevent them from availing themselves of any other remedy
or process which the law itself might entitle them to adopt.
They were not intended to prevent a defence by way of answer
to a libel, or plea to an action, if the ship-owners shoul(l deen,
VOL. xv.
I"

THE " SCOTLAND."

[Sup. Ct.

such a mode of pleading adequate to their protection. It is
obvious that in a case like the present, where all the parties
injured are represented as libellants or intervenors in the
cause, an answer setting up the defence of limited responsibility is fully adequate to give the ship-owners all the protection
which they need.
But it is objected that they did not follow the statute by
giving up and conveying to a trustee the strippings of the
wreck and the pending freight. It is sufficient to say that the
law does not require this. It contains two distinct and independent provisions on the subject. One is, that the shipowners shall be liable only to the value of the ship and freight;
the other is, that they may be discharged altogether by surrendering the ship and freight. If they failed to avail themselves
of the latter, they are still entitled to the benefit of the former
kind of relief. The primary enactment, in sect. 4283, Rev.
Stat., is, that the liability of the owner for any loss or damage,
without his privity or knowledge, shall in no case exceed the
amount or value of his interest in the vessel and her freight
then pending. Two modes for carrying out this law are then
prescribed, one in sect. 4284, and the other in sect. 4285. By
sect. 4284, a pro rata recovery against the ship-owner is given
to the various parties injured "in proportion to their respective
losses ; " and it is added : "for that purpose the freighters and
owners of the property, and the owner of the vessel, or any of
them, may take the appropriate proceedings in any court, for
the purpose of apportioning the sum for which the owner of
the vessel may be liable, among the parties entitled thereto."
The other mode of attaining the benefit of the law is prescribed by sect. 4285, which declares that "it shall be deemed
a sufficient compliance on the part of such owner, with the
requirements of this title, if he shall transfer his interest in
such vessel and freight, for the benefit of such claimants, to a
trustee, to be appointed by any court of competent jurisdiction,
&c., from and after which transfer all claims and proceedings
against the owner shall cease." This last proceeding the
respondents did not see fit to adopt; but that does not deprive
them of the benefit of the preceding section.
As to the form of proceeding necessary to give the respon-

Oct. 1881.]

TOtE

.SCOTLAND."

dents the benefit of sect. 4254, which declares that either party
"may take the. appropriate proceedings in any court, for the
purpose of apportioning the sum for which the owner of the vessel may be liable," what imnore " appropriate proceeding " could
be taken for this purpose, where all the parties are before a
court of admiralty, and where the ship-owners plead their
exemption under the statute, than to give a decree against
them for the amount of their liability, and to distribute the
sum amongst the parties entitled to it?
It seems to us that no additional rules are necessary to attain
the object of the law in the case. It is plain enough to execute
itself. If there are parties, not represented in the suit, who
have claims for damages, it is the respondents' fault for not
bringing them in, as they might have done after the rules of
1871 were adopted, by pursuing the remedy pointed out in
those rules. But as to the actual libellants and intervenors in
the suit, there is no reason in the world why the respondents
should not be decreed to pay the value of the ship's strippings
and remnants into court, nor why such amount should not be
distributed pro rata amongst the claimants.
We think that this should have been done. If any further
inquiries are necessary to be made, in order to ascertain the
proper amount to be paid by the respondents, as depending
upon the value of the articles saved, including freight or passage money realized, the court below can institute them in a
proper way.
The question raised as to the rule of damages which should
be adopted, in estimating the actual loss of the owners of the
guano, was properly decided by the Circuit Court. The rule is,
the prime cost or market value of the cargo at the place of
shipment, with all charges of lading and transportation, including insurance and interest, but without any allowance for
anticipated profits. When, as in this case, the goods have no
ascertainable market value at the place of shipment, the guano
being a natural deposit owned by the Peruvian government,
indirect means must be resorted to for the purpose of ascertaining the real value at that place. The Circuit Court had the
evidence of an experienced merchant on this subject, who
based his estimate upon the price for which the goods were

36

THE

"SSCOTLAND."

[Sup. Ct.

usually sold in New York, with a fair'deduction for profits and
expenses of every kind. Under the circumstances of the ease
we do not see that any juster method could have been adopted.
The rate of interest allowed, six per cent per annum, was the
proper rate in such a case. See The Vaughan and Telegraph,
14 Wall. 258; Murray v. Charming Betsey, 2 Cranch, 64; The
Anna Maria, 2 Wheat. 327; The Amiable Nancy, 3 id. 546;
Smith v. Condry, 1 How. 28; Williamson v. Barrett, 13 id.
101.
In conclusion, our decision is, that as no error has been
shown in any part of the decree below except on the question
of limited responsibility, the same is in all respects affirmed
with that exception ; and for the error in that respect the
decree of the Circuit Court must be reversed. so far as it condemns the respondents to pay the whole amount of damage
sustained by the libellants and intervenors; and the cause
must be remanded.with instructions to modify the decree and
take such further proceedings as may be necessary to carry out
the principles laid down in this opinion.
As to the costs of the litigation up to the time the appeal
was taken to this court, the decree of the Circuit Court will not
be disturbed, inasmuch as the respondents did not place themselves alone on the defence of limited responsibility, but contested the question of fault and any liability whatever, which
was found against them.
As to the costs of this appeal, we think that no costs should
be decreed to either party against the other. The question
before the Circuit Court was a new one, upon which there
was wide room for difference of opinion ; and neither court nor
parties had any precedents to guide or direct them as to the
mode of proceeding. Therefore each party will be decreed to
pay their own costs on this appeal.
MR. JUSTICE MATTHEWS and MR. JUSTICE GRAY did not
sit in this case, nor take any part in deciding it.

