Oct. 1881.]

OGLESBY

OGLESBY

V. ATTRILL.

v.

ATTRTLL.

1. Where the action of a corporation is lawful, the motives therefor, or the expediency thereof, is not a subject of judicial inquiry.
2. A compromise, as the term is defined by the code of Louisiana, is as binding
on the interested parties as a judgment, and cannot be collaterally assailed.

EratoR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
The petition of the plaintiff alleges that he had become the
sole owner of all the capital stock of the Crescent City GasLight Company, a corporation created by an act of the legislature of Louisiana, approved April 20, 1870; that the stock
was divided into 30,000 shares, of $100 each; that, in March,
1875, he entered into negotiations with the New Orleans GasLight Company, another corporation created under the laws of
that State, for an amalgamation of the two companies, pursuant to an act of the legislature of the previous year; that the
negotiations resulted in an agreement for amalgamation between the two companies, through their responsible boards of
directors ; that the agreement was ratified by the requisite
number of stockholders on the 9th of April following; that
on the ensuing day the agreement was deposited with the
secretary of state, as required by law; that, under the agreement, the consolidated company retained the name of the
New Orleans Gas-Light Company, and its full-paid stock was
divided into 37,500 shares, of $100 each,-of which 12,500
shares were allotted to the plaintiff as owner of all the stock
of the Crescent City Gas-Light Company, and the residue,
25,000 shares, were allotted to the owners of the stock of the
original New Orleans Gas-Light Company.
The petition further alleges that on the 10th of April, 1875,
about the time of the consummation of the agreement of consolidation, the defendants Oglesby and Cassard, the former
representing himself as entitled to 3,550 shares, and the latter
to 1,150 shares, of the stock of the Crescent City Gas-Light
Company, united with one Hernandez in a letter addressed to
the president of the New Orleans Gas-Light Company, which
was as follows: -

OGLESBY V. ATTRILL.

[Sup. Ct.

"NE1w ORLEANS, April 10th, 1875.
President Gas Compjany.
"By the newspapers we noticed that you are about to make an
adjustment of your contest with the Crescent City Gas Company.
We, the undersigned, hereby notify you that, at the commencement
of the litigation with your company, we were the owners of the
shares in the Crescent City Gas Company attached to our undersigned names; that we were defrauded of said stock by the fraud
and machinations of the officers of said company; and that we
intend to prosecute our claim to the same, and hereby notify you
that any compromise or adjustment you may make with the said
Crescent City Gas Company will be subject to our rights, to the
extent above stated, and that legal proceedings will be instituted
to enforce our said rights.
'"J. H. OCLESBY, 3,550 shares.
do.
"JIrLES CASSARID, 1,150
do."
HERNANDEZ, 400
"J.
"JAMES

JACKSON,

The petition avers that this letter was written with the malicious intent to embarrass the plaintiff in the exercise of his
rights under the agreement to consolidate ; that the claim made
was groundless; that, on the 7th of April, 1873, the directors
of the Crescent City Gas-Light Company had levied an assessment on the stock of the company of one and one-half per
cent; and, under it, the defendant Oglesby was bound to pay
$6,075, as owner of 4,000 shares, and the defendant Cassard
was bound to pay $1,725, as owner of 1,150 shares; that they
refused to pay this assessment, and on the 6th of May, 1873,
instituted suit in conjunction with other shareholders to enjoin
the directors from proceeding to enforce its payment, and set up
as grounds therefor "frauds and machinations of the officers of
the said company;" that, on the 14th of that month, the coinpany brought suits against Oglesby aDnd Cassard to enforce payment of the assessment ; and that, on the following day, May
15, Cassard transferred his shares to one Phlipps, and on the 22d
of the month Oglesby transferred to him 3,550 shares of his
stock and disposed of the residue to other parties ; that these
transfers were made in settlement and compromise of the
rights of the respective parties, in pursuance of which an indorsement was made on them to the effect that the company

Oct. 1881.]

OGLESBY V. ATTRILL.

assented thereto, although only fifty cents per share had been
paid, and released Oglesby and Cassard from all past, present, and future assessments thereon; and that thereupon the
respective suits were disiissed, those by the company against
Cassard and Oglesby, and the one by them against the company.
The petition further avers that the notification above mentioned has operated to impair the absolute control of the plaintiff of a large amount of stock in the consolidated company;
and that the claim set up by the defendants throws a cloud
over the title of a large portion of the shares allotted to him,
and, from the nature of the claim, causes a confusion whieh
impairs and depreciates the value of the entire number of his
shares to his damage of $200,000. He, therefore, prays that
the defendants may be severally cited, and, after due proceedings, be condemned in solido to pay to him that sum, with
interest and costs.
The petition was filed in the Fourth District Court of the
Parish of Orleans, of Louisiana, but, on application of the de
fendants, was removed to the Circuit Court of the United
States. They then filed an answer, and a petition in reconvention, making what is termed a reconventional demand or
counterclaim.
The substance of this petition is, that the
assessment levied upon the stock of the Crescent City GasLight Company was unnecessary ; that the directors of the
company had made no arrangement to purchase property or to
build gas-works, or to lay pipes for gas, and had no serious
design of doing so ; that the charter of the New Orleans GasLight Company of 1835 contained a provision authorizing a
sale of its gas-works to the city of New Orleans; and that the
defendants and other corporators of the Crescent City GasLight Company "had in contemplation an arrangement so
beneficial to the city of New Orleans that they had no doubt
they would be able to buy from it the pipes, gas-works, and
other property " which it might thus acquire, and that it was
the design and object of the corporatos to wait " until time
should develop whether they could purchase from the city of
New Orleans or should be compelled to build for themselves; "
that the directors were put into office through the influence of

OGLESBY V. ATTRILL.

[Sup. Ct.

the plaintiff, and were completely under his control; that the
assessment levied was instigated by him to induce the stockholders to part with their stock, and to enable him to purchase
it for a mere nominal sun; that the plaintiff and the directors
confederated together to make the assessment to carry out this
scheme, although they agreed among themselves that no assessment of their stock should be made; and that they used the
process of the courts to compel the defendants to submit to
their arbitrary and unnecessary exactions.
The defendants admit that suits were brought against them
to enforce the payment of the assessment levied on the shares
held by them, and that they made the compromise stated in the
petition; but allege that inasmuch as the assessment levied,
and others threatened, involved the payment of enormous
sums, and inasmuch as they had reason to believe that neither
of them would derive any benefit therefrom, they were compelled to make the compromise to prevent their ruin ; and that
the agreement to surrender their stock in consideration of being released from liability for the assessment, and the dismissal
of the suits against them, were made in ignorance of the fact
that Phipps, to whom they transferred their stock, was an agent
of the plaintiff to combine with the other directors to compel
the stockholders to sacrifice their stock ; and that they did not
know at the time, nor until within six months past, of the conspiracy between the plaintiff and the other directors as above
charged, and but for "1said error of fact" they Would have
defended the suits brought against them, and would not have
surrendered their stock ; and that they have ascertained within
six months that the plaintiff and other capitalists at the North
had furnished Phipps and others with the means to buy up the
stock so soon as it could be forced on the market by the proceedings of the directors.
The defendants then allege that each share of the Crescent
City Gas-Light Company is worth not less than 9100; that
they are severally entitled to the stock which they respectively
owned as mentioned; that they were illegally and cunningly
deprived of it by the plaintiff, who has converted it to his own
use; and that he is accountable to each of them for its value,
namely, to the defendant Oglesby for $255,000, and to the de-

Oct. 1881.]

OGLESBY V. ATTIILL.

fendant Cassard for 115,000; and to pay said amounts they
pray that he may be condemned.
To this reconventional demand the plaintiff excepted, on the
ground that it was prescribed by one year, and also on the
ground that it disclosed no cause of action against the plaintiff.
The court overruled the exceptions, and the ease was tried by
a jury, who found against the claim of the plaintiff and that
the reconventional demand should be dismissed. The case
comes here on a writ of error taken by the defendants. The
plaintiff abides by the judgment entered on the verdict.
Mr. Richard De Gray and Mr. Hnry ]Kellq, with whom
were Mr. Charles B. SinGleton and Mr. Richard I. Browne, for
the plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Thomas J. Semmes and l'. S. Tea/cle Wallis for the
defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE

-FIELD,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
We do not deen it necessary to consider the rulings of the
court upon the admission of evidence, nor the instructions
given to the jury, nor those refused. The affiinance of the
judgment may be rested on the compromise made between the
defendants

-

the petitioners in reconvention -- and the com-

pany, assuming that in its absence the petition in reconvention
discloses a cause of action against the plaintiff below. They
allege that a fraud was practised on them by the directors of
the company at his instigation ; that he joined in a conspiracy
to get possession of their stock at a nominal price; and that in
order to carry out this scheme an assessment was levied which
was unnecessary for any immediate purpose of the company,

and that others were threatened. But they do not allege that
the assessment was in excess of the powers of the directors, nor
that it would have been unnecessary if the company had intended at the time to purchase or build gas-works required for
its business, or to raise money for other corporate purposes;
but that under the circumstances then existing it would have
been good policy to wait for future proceedings on the part of
the city of New Orleans. As to the wisdom of an assessment,
or its necessity at the time, or the motives which prompt it,
vor. xv.

39

OGLESBY V. ATTRILL.

[Sup. Ct.

the courts will not inquire, if it be within the legitimate authority of the directors to levy it, and the objects for which
the company was incorporated would justify the expenditure
of the money to be raised. They will not examine into the
affairs of a corporation to determine the expediency of its action, or the motives for it, when the action itself is lawful.
Bailey v. Bircenhead, Lancashire, & Cheshire Junction Railway Co., 12 Beav. 433.
The supposed fraudulent intentions of the officers in levying
the assessment, which are now alleged as grounds for treating it
as invalid, were urged by the defendants as reasons for enjoining its enforcement in the suit they instituted ; and any claims
arising from that clause were covered by the compromise
admitted in the pleadings. A compromise, by the code of
Louisiana, is defined to be "an agreement between two or
more persons, wxho, for promoting or putting an end to a lawsuit, adjust their differences by mutual consent, in the manner
which they agree on, and which any one of them prefers to
the hope of gaining balanced by the danger of losing" (art.
3071) ; and has, between the interested parties, a force equal
to the authority of a thing adjudged. It cannot be attacked
on account of any error in law or any lesion. Art. 3075.
The suits between the defendants and the Crescent City
company involved the validity of the assessment which they,
on account "of frauds and machinations of the officers," sought
to enjoin, whilst the company sought to enforce its payment.
The compromise concluded embraced the dismissal of the
several suits,-of those brought against the defendants, and
the one brought by them against the company, -the transfer
of their stock, and their release from present and future assessments thereon. There is no averment that it was induced by
any false representations df the plaintiff or of the directors, or
that the assessment was not a genuite one, or that the a-reement of the directors that no assessment' should be levied on
their stock was carried into effect ; or that there was any concealment of the affairs of the company ; and of the value of the
stock the defendants were as competent to judge as any others
in the market. Their ignorance that its purchase by Phipps
was made for the plaintiff does not in any respect affect the

Oct. 1881.]

UNITED

STATES V. CARLL.

character of the transaction. It was of no moment to them
who became the purchaser, nor did they so regard it, for the
transfers of their stock were made in blank. The compromise
stands, therefore, as a judgment, making a settlement of the
very matters now set up as grounds of complaint in the petition in reconvention ; that is, "the frauds and machinations of
the officers of the company" in levying the assessment. It settled all claims arising from the assessment, and the alleged
fraudulent purposes of the officers in connection with it.
Though made directly between the company and the defendants, it protects from further suit those who advised, equally
with those who levied, the assessment; participants in what-

ever wrong was committed, if any there were, as well as
principals; abettors as well as doers of it. No allegations
of fraud, in addition to those made at the settlement, can prevent the compromise from having effect as a judgment thereon.
It may, indeed, by a direct proceeding instituted for that purpose, be rescinded for fraud, but it cannot, any more than any
other judgment, be attacked collaterally. Adle v. Prudhomme,
16 La. Ann. 343. In the face of the compromise, the reconventional demand cannot be sustained.
Judgment affirmed.

UNITED

STATES V.

CAELL.

An indictment on sect. 5431 of the Revised Statutes, alleging, in the words of
the statute, that the defendant feloniously, and with intent to defraud, did
pass, utter, and publish a falsely made, forged, counterfeited, and altered
obligation of the United States, but not further alleging that the defendant
knew it to be false, forged, counterfeited, and altered, is insufficient, even
after verdict.

CERTIFICATE of division in opinion between the judges of
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York.
This was an indictment, found in the Circuit Court, on sect.
5431 of the Revised Statutes, by which it is enacted that
" every person who, with intent to defraud, passes, utters,

