Oct. 1881.]

SupERvisoRs v. STANLEY.

305

SUPERVISORS V. STANLEY.
1. The provisions of the statute of 1866 of Now York, providing for the assessment and taxation of the stockholders of a bank or banking association on
the value of their shares of stock, are in conflict with the act of Congress, so
far as they do not permit a stockholder of t national bank to ded oct the
amount of his just debts from the assessed value of his stock, while by the
laws of the State the owner of all other personal taxable property can
deduct such debts from its value.
2. The statute is not, however, rendered void by reason of such conflict, nor is
the assessment thereunder of the dhares of stock in national banks of no
effect. If the stockholder hits no debts to deduct, the prescribed mode of
assessment is valid, and lie cannot recover the tax paid pursuant thereto; if
he has debts, the assessment excluding themn fron coml)tation is voidable,
but the assessing officers act within their authority until they are duly notified that he is entitled to deduct such debts.
3. If the assessing officers proceed after such notice, and act in violation of the
act of Congress, lie may take the requisite steps to secure that deduction,
and, when secured, the residue of the statute remains valid.

ER,1oR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of New York.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. Ruftus W. Peclkham and Mr'. Wheeler H. Peckham for
the plaintiffs in error.
JMYr. George F. Edinunds and Mr. Matthew
defendant in error.

fale for the

MR. JUSTICE MILLErt delivered the opinion of the court.
Stanley recovered a judgment against the Board of Supervisors of the County of Albany, for taxes exacted and paid

under legal process on shares of the stock of the National
Albany Exchange Bank. A large number of the shareholders
of the bank who had paid this tax made an assignment of
their claims to him, and the judgment was for the sun of
$61,991.20, with interest and costs.
The ground of this recovery was that the statute of New
York, under which the shares were assessed, was void, because it (lid not permit the shareholder to make deduction
of the amount of his debts from the valuation of his shares
of stock, in ascertaining the amount for which they should be
taxed.
VoL. xv.

20

SUPERVISORS

v. STANLEY.

[Snp. Ct.

The pleadings in the case set out the sums paid by the
stockholders and their names, and their assignment to Stanley,
the payment under compulsion of legal process, and a demand
for the repayment on the Albany County authoritiea.
The case was submitted to the court on a waiver of trial
by jury, and on the finding of facts and conclusions of law
thereon by the court, judgment was rendered for plaintiffs.
The facts found by the court are thus stated:First, That the allegations of the complaint in regard to
the citizenship of the plaintiff, the citizenship and powers and
liabilities of the defendant, time organization and capital of the
National Albany Exchange Bank, the ownership of the shares
of capital stock of the National Albany Exchange Bank, the
assessment of the stockholders in said bank, named in said
complaint, by the board of assessors of the city of Albany, the
names and residences of said stockholders, the collection of
taxes from said stockholders, and the payment of the same to
the county treasurer of the county of Albany, and the demand
made by Chauncey P. Williams, before the commencement of
this action of the treasurer of the county of Albany, are true
as therein set forth.
" Second, That the amounts collected from the said stockholders and paid to the treasurer of the county of Albany, and
the times when the said amounts were so paid to said treasurer,
were as follows, to wit: $907
127
1,868
1,409
1,202
1,336
1,473
11,604
8,147
7,822
7,357
6,243

August
.........
90 paid ....
...
August
.........
84 paid ..
May
...
06 paid ...........
May
.........
33 paid .....
May
.........
32 paid .....
April
..
60 paid ..........
April
...
.........
02 paid ..
May
...
75 paid ...........
May
.....
.
26 paid ......
May
....
.....
34 paid ...
April
..
94 paid ...........
.April
........
20 paid . .

11, 1874
11, 1874
1, 1875
27, 1876
3, 1877
17, 1878
22, 1879
1, 1875
27, 1876
3, 1877
16, 1878
21, 1879

Third, That the sums above named were not paid voluntarily by said stockholders, but were forcibly collected by the

Oct. 1881.]

SUPERVISORS V. STANLEY.

marshal of the city of Albany, under a warrant issued to such
marshal by the receiver of taxes of said city, pursuant to a
warrant issued to said receiver of taxes by the board of supervisors of the county of Albany, by levying upon the property
of the said stockholders respectively, as alleged in said complaint.
"Fourth, That the said assessments were made and said
amounts collected and received by the treasurer of the county
of Albany, as above stated, under color of an act of the legislature of the State of New York, entitled 'An Act authorizing
the taxation of stockholders of banks, and surplus funds of
savings banks,' passed April 23, 1866, being chapter 761 of the
laws of 1866, and not otherwise.
"1iPfth,That the allegations of the complaint with reference
to the assignments by the respective stockholders of said bank
of their claims against the county of Albany, by reason of the
matters alleged in the said complaint, are true as set forth in
said complaint, and that the plaintiff, at the time of the commencement of this action, was the holder and owner of all
claims against the county of Albany, or against the defendant,.
arising out of the matters alleged and set forth in said complaint.
" Sixth, That the said act of the legislature of the State of
New York, chapter 761 of the laws of 1866, did not permit the
deduction of debts owing by the owners of stock in banks or
banking associations, in the assessment thereof for taxation,
although such deduction of debts of the owner was, at the time
of the assessments alleged in the said complaint, permitted and
required by the laws of the State of New York to be made
from the'value of every kind of personal property and moneyed
capital, other than bank stock, in assessing the same for the
purpose of taxation.
" Seventh, That the allegations in the fourth count of said
complaint, as to the presentation to the said board of assessors
by said Chauncey P. Williams of the affidavit of his indebtedness, and the request by him for a reduction of his assessment
on his bank stock, and the refusal of said board of assessors to
make such reduction, and the application by said Williams to
the Supreme Court of the State of New York for a writ of

SUPERVISORS V. STANLEY.

[SupJ. Ct.

mandamus, and the subsequent legal proceedings thereon, including the decision of the Supreme Court of the United
States, are true, as set forth in said fourth count."
It does not appear by this finding of the court that any shareholder, for whose payment of taxes this suit is brought, made
affidavit or other application in regard to his indebtedness, that
it might be deducted from his assessment, or that he owed anything to be deducted from the assessed value of his shares, except the seventh finding of facts in regard to C. P. Williams.
Unless, therefore, the other shareholders who paid the tax on
the shares of their stock were entitled to recover back the suin
paid without any evidence that they had made affidavit of the
amount which they would be entitled to deduct from the as,
sessment of their shares, if the same rule had been applied to
assessment of bank shares as to other personal property, and

without any evidence that they owed anything whatever to
be deducted from any assessment of their personal property,
including bank shares, the judgment in this case cannot be
supported.
The judge who decided the case on the circuit found as a
conclusion of law that the assessment of all shares of national
banks was void, because the statute of New York, under which
the assessments were necessarily made, was void, as being in
conflict with the act of Congress on that subject, and he declares, in an opinion delivered in the case of The National
Albany Exchange Banc v. Hills, Receiver oj Taxes, in a chancery suit, that the assessments in this class of cases are absolutely void, the assessors having acted without any jurisdiction.
If this view of the subject be sound, -if
the officers who
assessed and collected this tax were utterly without authority
to collect any tax whatever, or, if there was no law by which
in any case they could assess and collect a tax on shares of
national banks,- then it is of no consequence to inquire of
anything beyond the fact that plaintiff's assignors did pay

such a tax under legal compulsion.
On the other hand, if the law is for any p rpose a valid law,
and if it can be held to furnish the rule of taxation as to any
class of owners of national bank shares, then the onus is on
plaintiff to show that his assignors are not of that class.

Oct. 1881.]

SuPERvIsoRs v. STANLEY.

309

The question here to be decided arises under two statutes of
the State of New York in regard to taxation.
The first of these is the act of 1850, relating to the assessment and collection of taxes in the city of Albany. The sixth
section of the act requires the board of assessors to prepare an
assessment-roll, in which there shall be set opposite the name
of each taxpayer, (1) All his real estate liable to taxation and
its value ; (2) The full value of all his personal property after
deducting the just debts owing by him.
Section 9 of the act is as follows "If amy person shall at any time before the assessors shall have
completed their assessments make affidavit that the value of his
real estate does not exceed a certain sum, to be specified in such
affidavit, or that the value of the personal estate owned by him,
after deducting his just debts, and his property invested in the
stock of any corporation or association liable to be taxed therefor,
does not exceed a certain sun, to be specified in the affidavit, it
shall be the duty of the board of assessors to value such real or personal estate, or both, as the ease may be, at the sum specified in
such affidavit, and no more."
In 1866 the State enacted a law concerning the taxation of
bank shares, which was evidently intended to meet the requirements of the act of Congress in relation to State taxation of
the shares of national banks, and the provision of this statute
related only to taxing stockholders in banks, and to the capital
invested in individual banks.
The first section of this act
reads as follows, and it contains no other provision for deductions as the basis of taxation, except what is found in this
section : "No tax shall hereafter be assessed upon the capital of any bank
or banking association organized Lnder the authority of this State
or of the United States, but the stockholders in such banks and
banking associations shrall be assessed and taxed on the value of
their shares of stock therein; said shares shall be incluled in the
valuation of the personal property of such stockholder in the assessment of taxes at the place, town, or ward where such bank or
banking association is located, and not elsewhere ; whether the
said stockholder reside in said place, town, or ward, or not, but not
at a greater rate than is assessed upon other moneyed capital in

SUPERVISORS V. STANLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

the hands of individuals in this State. And in making such assessment there shall also be deducted friom the value of such shares
such sum as is in the same proportion to such value as is the assessed value of the real estate of the bank or banking association,
and in which any portion of their capital is invested in which said
shares are held to the whole amount of' the capital stock of said
bank or banking association. And providedfurther, that nothing
herein contained shall be held or construed to exempt from taxation the real estate held or owned by such bank or banking association; but the same shall be subject to State, county, municipal, and
other taxation to the same extent and rate and in the same manner
as other real estate is taxed."
In the case of People v. Dolan (36 N. Y. 59), the question
was whether, taking these two statutes together, an owner of
shares of stock in a national bank was entitled to deduct from
the assessed value of his shares the just debts owing by him.
It was argued that into this act of 1866 for the taxation of
bank shares there should enter, as part of it, the provision of
the act of 1850 which allowed this deduction as to all personal
property, and that nothing in the act of 1866 forbade this or
was inconsistent with it. It was also insisted that unless the
act of 1866 was so construed it would violate the act of Congress which only permitted the shares of national banks to be
taxed at the same rate as other money capital of the citizens
of the State.
But the Court of Appeals overruled both propositions, and
held that the true meaning of the act of 1866 was that no such
deduction should be made, and that as thus construed it was
not in conflict with the act of Congress on that subject.
In a subsequent case, Williams, a shareholder in the National
Albany Exchange Bank, made the affidavit required by'sect.
9 of the act of 1850, and presenting it to the board of assessors
of the county, demanded a -reduction in accordance with it,
from the valuation of his bank shares. On the refusal of the
assessors to comply with this request, a proceeding was commenced in the courts of the State, in which the Court of Appeals reaffirmed the principles of the case of People v. Dolan.
That case coming into this court by writ of error, it was here
held that while we were bound to accept the decision of the

Oct. 1881.]

SUPERVISOIRS V. STANLEY.

highest court of the State in construction of its own statute
the act of 1866 as thus construed was in that particular in
conflict with the act of Congress, because it did tax shares of
the national banks at a higher rate than other moneyed capital
in the State. It is reported in 100 U. S. 539, and there are
no words which declare the act of 1866 to be void, but the
careful language of the decision is, that " in refusing to plaintiff the same deduction for debts due by him from his shares
of national bank stock that it allows to others who have nioneyed capital otherwise invested, it is in conflict with the act
of Congress." p. 546.
Accepting, therefore, as we must, the act of 1866, as construed by the Court of Appeals of New York, as not authorizing any deduction for debts by a shareholder of a national
bank, is it for that reason absolutely void? This cannot be
true in its full sense, for there is no reason why it should not
remain the law as to banks or banking associations organized
under the laws of the State, or as to private bankers, of which
there no doubt exists a large number of both classes.
What is there to render it void as to a shareholder in a national bank, who owes no debts which he can deduct from the
assessed value of his shares ? The denial of this right does not
affect him. Ile pays the same amount of tax that lie would if
the law gave him the right of deduction. He would be in no
better condition if the law expressly authorized him to make
the deduction. What legal interest has he in a question which
only affects others? Why should he invoke the protection of
the act of Congress in a case where he has no rights to )1rtect? Is a court to sit and decide abstract questions of law
in which the parties before it show no interest, and which, if
decided either way, affect no right of theirs ?
It would seem that if the act remains a valid rule of assessment for shares of State banks, and for individual bankers, it
should also remain the rule for shareholders of national banks
who have no debts to deduct, and who could not, therefore,
deduct anything if te statute conformed to the requirements
of the act of Congress.
It is very difficult to conceive why the act of the legislature should be held void any further than when it affects some

SUPERVISORS V. STANLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

right conferred by the act of Congress. If no such right exists,
the delicate duty of declaring by this court that an act of State
legislation is void, is an assumption of authority uncalled for
by the merits of the case, and unnecessary to the assertion of
the rights of any party to the suit.
The general proposition must be conceded, that in a statute which contains invalid or unconstitutional provisions, that
which is unaffected by these provisions, or which can stand
without them, must remain. If the. valid and invalid are
capable of separation, only the latter are to be disregarded.
In Railroad Companies v. Yclbutte (103 U. S. 118), decided
at the last term, this point was pressed upon us with much
earnestness, and its decision was necessary to the judgment of
the court. " It is contended," said the court, " that as the
provision of the act in respect to the execution and exchange
of the State bonds is unconstitutional, the one in relation to
the statutory lien on the property of the company is also void
and must fall. We do not so understand the law." And yet
this was a case in which the scheme of exchanging the bonds
of the State for the bonds of the company, in order that the
company might get the benefit of the better credit of the State,
was accompanied by a mortgage created alone by the statute
in favor of the State as her security ; and the court, while holding that the exchange of bonds was void, as being in conflict
with the Constitution of the State of Florida, held that the
mortgage which secured the bonds of the company, and w'hich
was only a mortgage by operation of the same statute, was
valid.
This court, in the two cases cited in the brief, United States
v. Reese (92 id. 214) and Trade-llale Cases (1.00 id. 82), concedes the general principle that the whole of a statute is not
necessarily void because a paort of it may be so. Said the court
in the latter case: " While it may be true that when one part
of the statute is valid and constitutional, and another part is
unconstitutional and void, the court may enforce the valid part
where they are distinctly separable, so that each may stand
alone, it is not within the judicial province to give to the
words used by Congress a narrower meaning than they are
manifestly intended to bear." The first case also implies that

Oct. 1881.]

SUPEIVISORS V. STANLEY.

there may be unconstitutional provisions which do not vitiate
the whole statute or even a single section, because the argument is to show that in that case there could be no separation
of the good from the bad. It is also to be observed that
in both these cases it was a statute creating and punishing
offences criminally which was to be construed in regard to the
limited constitutional power of Congress in criminal matters.
Case of the State F'reiyht Tax (15 Wall. 232) arose out of a
statute of Pennsylvania which attempted to impose a tax on
commerce forbidden by the Constitution of the United States.
The act imposed a tax upon every ton of freight carried by
every railroad company, steamboat company, and canal coinpany doing business within the State. The railroad companies,
who contested the tax, presented a statement which separated
the freight transported by them between points solely within
the State and limited to such destination, and that which was
received from or carried beyond those limits. This court held
the latter to be void as a tax on inter-state commerce, and did
not declare the whole tax or the whole statute void. It said :
"It is not the purpose of the law, but its effect, which we are
now considering. Nor is it at all material that the tax is levied
upon all freight, as well that which is wholly internal as that
embarked in inter-state commerce. . . . The conclusion of the
whole is that, in our opinion, the act of the legislature of Pennsylvania of Aug. 25, 1864, so far as it applies to articles carried
through the State, or articles taken up in the State and carried
out of it, or articles taken up without the State and brought
into it, is unconstitutional and void." The same language is
repeated in EKrie Railway Co. v. Pennsylvania (id. 282), decided at the same time. Both cases were remanded to the
State court for further proceedings in conformity with the
opinion, which could only mean to -enforce the tax on transportation limited to the State and not on inter-state commerce.
This is a clear case of distinguishing between the articles
protected by the Constitution of the United States and those
which were not, though nothing in the language of the statute
authorized any such distinction.
But in a review of the cases in this court on this subject,
Austin v. The Aldermen (7 Wall. 694) will be found most

SUPERVISORS v. STANLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

nearly to resemble the one before us. It related to the same
matter of the invalidity of a statute of a State taxing shares of
the national banks as being in conflict with the act of Congress.
That act said that such taxes might be assessed at the place
where said bank was located, and not elsewhere.
The statute' directed the assessment and taxation of the
shares at the place where the owner resided. Austin, having
contested the tax on his shares in the courts of the State unsuccessfully, brought the case here by writ of error. This court
declined to enter upon the question of the validity of the statute, because the case did not show that he was taxed on his
shares in any other place than that where the bank was
located.
The argument of counsel in the case before us is that any
tax, or a tax on any person on account of his bank shares, is
void because the whole of the New York statute is void. If
the argument is sound, it was equally applicable to Austin's
case, in which the statute, which made no limitation of taxation to the place where the bank was located, must have been
held void under any principle which would wholly invalidate
the statute of New York, because the latter did not allow the
deduction of the owner's indebtedness from his shares. And if
in that case the Massachusetts statute was utterly void as to
national bank shares, then the tax on Austin's shares in Boston
was void, and lie had a right to be protected against the unconstitutional statute. The court evidently went upon the principle that the statute was only void as against the act of
Congress, in cases where some one was injured by the particular matter in which there was such conflict. The case seems
to us directly in point.
To the same effect are the cases of People v. Cassity, 46
N. Y. 46 ; Gordon v. Cornes, 47 id. 608; In the Matter, sC.,
Village of Mliddleton, 82 id. 196.
If we examine the statute before us on principle, we shall
find but little reason to hold it to be wholly void as regards
bank shares. If the statute stood alone, there is nothing in it
in conflict with the act of Congress. It is only when we look
to the other statute, which permits the deduction of debts from
the entire value of personal property, that we discern the dis-

Oct. 1881.]

SUPERVISORS

V. STANLEY.

crimination against bank shares. The act declares that bank
shares shall be taxed according to their value, after deducting
the real estate and other property on which the bank itself
pays tax. This is eminently just. It provides for a niode of
ascertaining their value, the officers who shall do it, and how
the tax shall be collected. In all this the law is valid, except
that it does not authorize a deduction for debts of the shareholder. This is a distinct and separable principle. When the
shareholder has no debts to deduct, the law provides a mode of
assessment for him, which is not in conflict with the act of
Congress, and the law in that case can be held valid. Under
the decision in Austin v. The Aldermen, it is valid as to him.
If he has debts to be deducted, the ease of People v. Weaver
(100 U. S. 539) shows that in taking the steps which this
court has held lie may take, lie can secure that deduction,
and when secured the rest of the law remains valid. In
other words, in such a case, so much of the law as conflicts
with the act of Congress in the given case is held invalid, and
that part of the State law which is in accord with the act of
Congress is held to be the measure of his liability. There is
no difficulty here in drawing the line between those eases to
which the statute does not apply and to those to which it does,
between the cases in which it violates the act of Congress and
those in which it does not. There is, therefore, no necessity of
holding the statute void as to all taxation of national bank
shares, when the cases in which it is invalid can be readily
ascertained on presentation of the facts.
It follows that the assessors were not without authority to
assess national bank shares ; that where no debts of the owners
existed to be deducted the assessment was valid, and the tax
paid under it a valid tax. That in cases where there did exist
such indebtedness, which ought to be deducted, the assessment
was voidable but not void. The assessing officers acted within
their authority in such cases until they were notified in some
proper manner that the shareholder owed just debts which lie
was entitled to have deducted.
If they then proceeded in disregard of the act of Congress,
the assessment was erroneous, and the case of People v. Weaver (supra) shows how that error could be corrected.

SUPERVISORS

V. STANLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

The case before us shows no error in any case but that of
Williams, and in that case he has obtained the judicial decision
of this court, that the tax he paid was illegally exacted from
him. Nor do the facts of his case raise the question whether
in a case where the debts of the shareholder do not equal the
assessors' value of his shares, the tax is wholly erroneous, or
only so much as represent the assessment of his indebtedness
that should have been deducted, for his affidavit was that his
debts equalled the value of his bank shares. Nor do the findings of fact raise the question whether, without making affidavit and demand on the assessors, a suit can be maintained to
recover, when such indebtedness actually existed; for he did
make affidavit and demand, and no other taxpayer has shown
any such notice or demand, or that he had any indebtedness to
be deducted. There is neither finding of fact nor averment .in
the pleadings on either point as to any other assignors of plaintiff than Williams. It results from these considerations that
the judgment of the Circuit Court will be reversed, and that
on the finding of facts judgment will be rendered for the plaintiff on the fourth count for the amount of the tax paid by
Williams, with interest, and on all the other counts for
defendants.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY dissented.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered, at a subsequent day of the

term, the further opinion of the court.
Since the opinion in this case was delivered a suggestion has
been made to modify the order of the court for judgment so
far as to permit a trial in the Circuit Court on issues not decided by that court in the former trial.
The conclusions of law found by the Circuit Court, if sound,
disposed of the whole case, and the facts found were sufficient
to meet that view. As our opinion differed. in one important
point from that on which the Circuit Court acted, it became a
question whether the facts found were still sufficient to dispose
of the whole case.
In a bill of exceptions, signed by the judge and found in the

Oct. 188t.]

SUPERVISORS

V. STANLEY.

record, it is said: " There was evidence given in the case upon
the subject of other allegations contained in the complaint, but
the court did not pass upon such allegations, as the following
admission and the decision of the court herein duly show."
Then follows a stipulation, signed by counsel for each party,
that the case was decided solely upon the invalidity of the
New York statute, and that other allegations contained in the
complaint had not been passed on.
Under these circumstances we should have little difficulty
in directing the court below to grant a new hearing as to such
issues, if we could find in the record any material issue in regard to which the court made no finding.
Attention has been called to the following language, which
is a part of each count in the complaint:
." And the plaintiff also says, upon information and belief,
that the assessment of said shares of stock in said banking
association by said board of assessors was at a greater rate
than was assessed by said board of assessors upon shares of
stock in a bank organized under the laws of the State of New
York, located in said sixth ward, and was at a greater rate
than was assessed by said board upon other moneyed capital in
the hands of individual citizens of the State of New York, and
that for these reasons said assessment of said shares of stock,
and the levy of tax thereunder, were illegal and void."
If this is a ueficient allegation of a distinct ground of recovery, it seems just that the plaintiff should have a hearing
on it, as the defendant took issue on it and it has not been
disposed of.
We have, however, much difficulty in finding a solid ground
of recovery in this statement. It is divisible into two parts:
1. That the shares of the national bank were assessed at a
greater rate than was assessed on shares of a bank organized
under the laws of the State of New York, located in said sixth
ward.
We are quite clear that the shares of the plaintiff are not
relieved from taxation because a single bank of the State has
been favored by mistake or by intention.
For errors of this kind the statutes of New York provide
the correction, which should be taken in time, and we should

SUPERVISORS

V. STANLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

be very reluctant to hold that, when it has been shown that a
single bank or a single individual has been taxed less than
be should be, all other taxes, however just, are thereby
invalidated.
That the assessment of the shares of the Exchange Bank
" was at a greater rate than was assessed upon other moneyed
capital in the hands of individual citizens of the State of New
York."
If by this it is supposed that a few individual instances may
be shown of partial assessments favoring' citizens as compared
with the national banks, we think it is erroneous. But if it is
intended to allege that apart from the question of the right of
the shareholder to deduct for his debts -a
question which, in
this case, was disposed of and was in issue -it
can be proved
that the assessors habitually and intentionally, or by some rule
prescribed by themselves, or by some one whom they were
bound to obey, assessed the shares of the national banks
higher in proportion to their actual value than other moneyed
capital generally, then there is ground for recovery, and a hearing as to that should be granted.
As we have said, it may be well doubted if plaintiff intended to allege this, or to rely on proving it.
But as it is a. question of pleading under the New York code,
and as no injustice can occur by leaving the matter to the
court below, the judgment will be so far modified as to permit
the court below, in its discretioii, to hear evidence on that
point, and, if necessary, to allow an amendment of the pleading to present it properly; and it is
So ordered.

