Oct. 188t.]

THATCHERI

V. ROCKWELL.

THATCHER V. ROCKWELL.
After suit brought, proceedings were instituted wherein the plaintiff was duly
adjudged to be a bankrupt and assignees were appointed. IRld, that his
bankruptcy cannot be set up by the defendants to bar its further prosecution in his name, if either the assignees expressly consent thereto, or the
claim sued on was, four montbs before the proceedings, transferred by him
in good faith and for a valuable consideration to a party for whose use and
benefit the suit was brought.
MOTION to dismiss a writ of error to the Supreme Court of
the State of Colorado, with which is united under Rule 6 a
motion to affirm the judgment.
On the 10th of June, 1875, Rockwell, the defendant in error,
brought an action of assumpsit against Thatcher & Standley,
the plaintiffs in error, in a State court of Colorado. The declaration on which the trial was had contained the common
counts only. The original pleas were the general issue, payment, and set-off; but on the 26th of March, 1877, a supplemental plea was filed, to the effect that on the 26th of May,
1876, Rockwell had been adjudicated a bankrupt, and on the
14th of July, 1876, an assignee appointed, to whom the claim
in suit passed under the operation of the bankrupt law ; wherefore the defendants "prayed judgment if said plaintiff could
longer have or maintain his action against them." To this
plea a replication was filed confessing the bankruptcy and the
appointment of an assignee, but averring that the claim in suit
had been assigned to Kate Rockwell and L. C. Rockwell in
November, 1875, and did not pass to the assignee. It was also
averred that the suit was prosecuting for the use and benefit of
the persons to whom the transfer had been made, and that the
assignee in bankruptcy claimed no interest whatever therein.
To the replication the defendants rejoined, denying the assignment to the Rockwells.
Upon this issue, among others, a trial was had, and at the
conclusion of the testimony the defendants asked the court to
instruct the jury, "That if they believe from the evidence
that the plaintiff, after the commencement of the suit, filed his
petition in bankruptcy and was adjudged a bankrupt, and
an assignee in bankruptcy was appointed, then the plaintiff

THATCItER V. ROCKWELL.

[Sup. Ct.

cannot recover in this action ; for if he had any legal claim
against the defendants at the time the assignee in bankruptey was appointed, the same vested in the assignee in
bankruptcy."
This instruction was refused, and the court charged: " That
if the jury believe from the evidence that Watson B. Rockwell, previous to his. bankruptcy, assigned the claim now in
suit to his wife Kate and L. C. Rockwell, one-half to each,
for a valuable consideration, that this suit is well maintained
in W. B. Rockwells name for their use and benefit, notwithstanding you may believe from the evidence that Rockwell was
adjudged a bankrupt in May, A. D. 1876.
" That the defendants cannot avail themselves of the bankruptey of the plaintiff if the jury believe from the evidence
that the money claimed was assigned to the said Kate Rockwell
and L. C. Rockwell four months before Rockwell's petition in
bankruptcy was filed, and even if there had been no assignment
of this claim the defendants could not avail themselves of
the bankruptcy, if it appeared from the evidence that the
assignee in bankruptcy expressly consented that the plaintiff
might continue to prosecute the claim in his own name in this
court."
Exceptions were taken in due form and incorporated into
the record. The case is here on a writ of error to the Supreme
Court of the State for the review of a judgment overruling
these exceptions.
Mr. J. Q. Charles and Mr. James B. Belford in support of
the motion.
Mr. Henry H. Teller, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE, after stating the case, deliv-

ered the opinion of the court.
By the exceptions to the charge a Federal question is undoubtedly presented upon the record. The court was asked to
decide that the proceedings in bankruptcy were a bar to the
further prosecution of the suit in the name of the bankrupt.
This was refused, and the jury were told that they might bring
in a verdict for the plaintiff notwithstanding the bankruptcy,
if they found in his favor on the other issues, and the claim

Oct. 1881.]

THATCHER V. ROCKWELL.

had been assigned, as alleged in the replication, more than four
months before the petition in bankruptcy was filed. We must,
therefore, overrule the motion to dismiss, but what the court
did was so clearly right, that we are not inclined to retain the
cause for further consideration on its merits. An assignment
in bankruptcy only transfers to the assignee such property as
the bankrupt had when the petition in bankruptcy was filed.
If in point of fact the claim in suit had been transferred by
the bankrupt more than four months before the proceedings in
bankruptcy were begun, the assignee in baiikruptcy had no
interest whatever in the suit that was pending, because, from
the time of the transfer the transferees became entitled to the
benefit of any recovery that might be had.
The suit, though in the name of the bankrupt, was in fact
for and on account of the transferees, whose trustee the bankrupt became when the transfer was completed.
The further charge of the court to the effect that if the
assignee expressly consented that the bankrupt might continue
to prosecute the suit in his own name, the defendants could not
avail themselves of the bankruptcy as a defence, was also right.
By sect. 5047, Rev. Stat., the assignee may prosecute or
defend suits pending in the name of the bankrupt at the time
of the bankruptcy, but there is nothing which renders it
necessary for him to make himself a party on the record to do
what is thus allowed. What was said in Ilerndon v. lboward
(9 Wall. 664) must be construed in connection with the case
then under consideration, which was an application by an
assignee to be substituted in this court for the original appellant, who had become bankrupt after the appeal was taken.
The true rule is stated in ]yster v. Gqff; 91 U. S. 521 ; Burbank v. Bigelow, 92 id. 179; Norton v. Switzer, 93 id. 355;
.erome v. M' Carter, 94 id. 734 ; M'Henry v. La Soci'tJ PranVaise, &c., 95 id. 58; and Davis v. Priedlander, 104 id. 570.
These cases, although the bankrupt happened to be a defendant, establish the doctrine that under the late bankrupt law the
validity of a pending suit, or of the decree or judgment therein,
was not affected by the intervening bankruptcy of one of the
parties ; that the assignee might or might not be made a party;
and whether he was so or not, lie was equally bound with any

BRIDGE

CO. V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

other party acquiring an interest pendente lite. It is no defence
to the debt that the creditor has become a bankrupt ; and if an
assignee, after notice, permits a pending suit to proceed in the
name of the bankrupt for its recovery, he is bound by any judgment that may be rendered. This is a sufficient protection for
the debtor.
The motion to dismiss is denied, but that to affirm
Granted.

BRIDGE COMPANY v.

UNITED

STATES.

1. Congress, in the exercise of its power over the navigable waters of the United
States, which is derived from the commerce clause of the Constitution, gave,
by resolution (is/ca, p. 473), its assent that a bridge across the Ohio at Cincinnati might be constructed in accordance with the terms of a charter conferred by State laws; but in case the free navigation of the river should at
any time be substantially and materially obstructed by the contemplated
bridge, the right to withdraw such assent, or to direct the necessary modifications and alterations, was reserved. While the bridge was erecting, in
compliance with the provisions of law, Congress, by statute (i/i-a, p. 473),
declared that it should be unlawful to proceed therewith, unless certain
specified changes should be made. The company made them, and coinpleted the bridge according to the altered plan.
HIld, 1. That in view of
the legislation of Congress the resolution is the paramount law by which
the rights involved are to be deterinined, and that the company, by accepting its provisions, became subject to all the limitations and reservations of
power which Congress deemed fit to impose. 2. That the withdrawal by
Congress of its assent is, for the purposes of this case, equivalent to a positive enactment that, notwithstanding State legislation, the further maintenance of the bridge according to the plan first prescribed was unlawful.
3. That Congress, by requiring changes and modifications to which the
company conformed, incurred no liability to the latter.
2. Congress could withdraw its assent whenever it determined that in regard to
the construction of the bridge other requirements than those originally
prescribed were essential to secure due protection to the navigation of the
river.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Ohio.
On the 5th of Febrttary, 1868, the General Assembly of
Kentucky passed an act to incorporate the Newport and Cin-

