Oct. 1881.]

UNITED

STATES V. HUNT.

or in equity. The relation undoubtedly was one of a confidential and fiduciary character, but there seems to be no ground in
the evidence to challenge the good faith with which the business
was conducted. The bond of the company was purchased from
the receiver with his own means, and not those of the company ;
the value paid, so far as the testimony discloses, was full; and
every step, when taken, was made known and assented to by
the directors of the corporation. The transaction was legitimate in itself and beneficial to the company, and the dealing
was not by the president with himself, but with the corporation,

in fact, represented and acting by other directors, with full
knowledge of all the facts.

A defence of payment was suggested by the circumstance
that the receiver, after parting with the bond in exchange for
the stock, reported it as paid in that way.

So far as the fund

in his hands was concerned, it might be so treated; but the
company and its stockholders must be conscious that they have
no right so to consider it.
We find no error in the decree, and it is accordingly
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES V. HUNT.
1. In a suit upon the official bond of A., approved July 19, 1866, on which day
he entered upon duty as collector of internal revenue, and continued therein
until May 23, 1867, the United States offered in evidence a duly certified
treasury transcript of his accounts. The defendants objected to the evidence on the ground that the bond related solely to his second term of
office, and that the balance shown by the transcript was the result of transactions which occurred during his first and second terms, and after the appointment and qualification of his successor. In support of the objection,
the defendants produced the bond of his successor, approved April 29, 1867.
Ield, that it was irregular to permit the defendants, in support of their
objections, to put in evidence going to the merits of their defence, and that
the bond did not show when A.'s successor entered upon duty. 2. That
the transcript was admissible, inasmuch as it is entirely consistent with time
description of the assessment lists of dates prior to July, 1866, and of those
subsequent to May 23, 1867, that the taxes were actually received by him
during his second term, and, were it otherwise, the objectionable items
could, on mere inspection, be excluded from the accoumt.

UNITED

STATES V. IIUNT.

[Slip. Ct.

2, Receipts signed by A. for the aggregate amount of the alphabetical lists,
although the latter show in detail the names of persons assessed and the
amount severally due from each, are competent evidence for the United
States, as is also the original statement signed by him, showing the amounts
collected and the amounts abated as uncollectible during the month, anti
those collected May 18, 1867.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Mississippi.
The ease is stated in the opinion of the court.

Thte Solicitor-General for the United States.
Mr. William L. Nugent for the defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE MATTHEWS delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action brought by the United States upon the
official bond of Fidelio S. Hunt, as collector of taxes, under the
Internal Revenue Act, for the second district of Mississippi.
He died pending the suit, and it was revived against his executrix. The other defendants were sureties. The condition of
the obligation was that the said Hunt "shall truly and faithfully execute and discharge all the duties of the said office
according to law, shall justly and faithfully account for and
pay over to the United States, in compliance with the orders
and regulations of the Secretary of the Treasury, all public
moneys which may come into his hands or possession," &c.
It is alleged in the declaration that the bond was delivered
and approved on July 19, 1866, on which day Hunt entered
upon the discharge of the duties of his said office, and continued therein until on or about May 23, 1867. The breach
alleged was that during that period be became indebted to the
United States in the sum of $139,463.15, received by him as
such collector for and on account of taxes due to the United
States, being a balance reported to be due from him upon
the adjustment of his account as such collector in the Treasury Department, of which a duly certified copy was filed, and
which he had refused to pay. The sureties filed joint pleas,
and the executrix pleaded separately. The pleas were alike,
and amounted to a general denial of every allegation necessary
to constitute a liability.
There was a judgment for the defendants. The United

Oct. 1881.]

UNITED

STATES

V. hTUNT.

States sued out this writ, and the errors which are assigned
arise upon the rulings of the court upon questions of evidence,
presented by a bill of exceptions.
The plaintiff offered in evidence the certified transcript of
Hunt's account from the books of the Treasury Department.
The certificate of the fifth auditor, accompanying it, states
that lie has examined and adjusted "a n account between the
United States and Fidelio S. Hunt, late collector for the 2d
district of Mississippi, from July 19th, 1866, to May 23d, 1867,
and find him chargeable as follows, under bond approved July
19th, 1866." The debit side of the account is, " to amount
of assessment lists receipted for, per form 231, viz." Its first
item is dated July 28, 1866, and is to " amount receipted for as
December, 1865, list." It also embraces similar debits, of the
same and subsequent dates of entry, for lists of January, February, April, May, and June, 1866. The last five items on the
same side of the account bear date, as to the entries, subsequently to May 23, 1867, but are for amounts receipted for as
lists of January, 1866, April and May, 1867. The credit side
of the account contains items of cash paid at dates subsequent
to May 23, 1867, and also gives credit for amounts collected by
his successors in office on lists he receipteh for, and also for
amounts collected by him as collector under the first bond on
lists receipted for by him as collector under the second bond.
This statement of account shows a balance due the United
States of the amount claimed in the declaration.
The transcript included, as part of the statement of account
and explanatory of it, a statement of differences, showing and
accounting for the discrepancies between the balance exhibited
by the collector's own account and that ascertained by the
adjustment. From this it appeared that the balance due the
United States by the collector's account to March 31, 1867,
since which date le had rendered none, was $76,756.17, showing a difference to his debit of $62,706.98. This is explained,
in part, by showing the whole amount of assessments of form
231 charged under his first bond and under his second bond
separately, which le had failed to give correct credit for, to
the amount of $137,430.78; in part, by showing the amount of
cash deposited by him Under his first and second bonds respec,

UNITED STATES v. HUNT.

[Sup. Ct.

tively, and that he had twice credited himself with $169,517.83
on account thereof; and by other errors, the whole amounting
to $702,434.36. On the other hand, this is reduced to the sum
of $62,706.98, the difference to be accounted for, by credits
for taxes abated by the adjustment, by credits therein for collections by successors in office, onl bills receipted for by him during
his term, and by amount claimed and credited in his accounts
as collections on cotton. A list of warrants covering into the
treasury, the amounts of cash deposited, is appended, showing
the amount of each, and on account of which bond it was paid.
To the introduction in evidence of this transcript objection
was made on the part of the defendants, "upon the grounds
that the balance exhibited by the said account is the result
of the transactions of both terms of the defendant's service,
whereas the suit is upon a bond which covers only the transactions of the second term; and because it embraces transactions made by the collector after his removal from office and
after the appointment and qualification of his successor, and
the balance is in part made up of these transactions, occurring
wien the collector no longer sustained any official relation to
the United States, and after the alleged breach had occurred."
And in support of their said objections, the defendants by
their attorneys, the bill of exceptions proceeds to state, introduced in evidence the bond of Martin Keary, the successor of
the said Hunt as such tax-collector, showing that the same was
approved on April 29, 1867. Thereupon the objections to
the introduction of the certified account in evidence were by
the court sustained, and the same was excluded, the court
holding that the said certified statement should stand and be
considered only as a bill of particulars annexed to plaintiff's
declaration.
This ruling was excepted to and is assigned for error.
It was an irregularity to permit the defendant to interject
into the plaintiff's case testimony upon the merits of the
defence in support of his objection that the evidence offered
was irrelevant, and the testimony interposed was not by itself
sufficient to establish the date oil which Hunt ceased to hold
an official relation to the United States as collector, for it did
not show when his successor actually entered upon the dis-

Oct. 1881.]

UNITED STATES

charge of the duties of the office.

V. HUNT.

But passing by, without

further comment, these minor errors, we find that the objection to the transcript of the account, as matter of evidence, is
without foundation, either in fact or in law.
It was assumed on both sides, though there is no proof to
that effect in the record, that Hunt had filled a prior term as
collector, being his own successor, and it was admitted that
his second term commenced on July 19, 1866. The objectionable items in the first part of the account charge him with
amounts of assessment lists receipted for per form 23 2 on dates
subsequent to the beginning of his second term, though being
described as lists for specified months prior to July, 1866, it is
argued that he could not be chargeable upon his second bond
with those sums. But this does not follow; for it is entirely
consistent with the description of the lists, that the collector
actually received the taxes paid upon them, after the date of
his second term, and just as he is charged with them in this
account. And so, on the other hand, with similar items
charged upon receipts of assessment 4ists, of dates subsequent
to May 23, 1867, the alleged date when his second term expired. It is consistent with the nature of those charges that
they were for moneys received on account of taxes paid on
account of these lists, and received by him before the end of
his second term. The account charges him with distinct sums
of money collected by him. They are identified by reference
to assessment lists for particular months, and then by the dates
of his receipts to the government for the lists, upon form 23,.
No dates are traced in the account as those on which the taxes
were actually collected by him, but the certificate of the Treasury Department declares it to be an account between the
United States and the collector from the beginning to the end
of the period covered by the bond in suit, and there is nothing
on the face of the account which necessarily contradicts this
statement. The certificate has the legal effect of making the
transcript prima faeie evidence of the fact of indebtedness
which it certifies, unless upon the face of the account it necessarily appears to be otherwise.
But the ruling of the court in excluding the transcript is
equally untenable upon the contrary supposition, that the

UNITED

STATES V. HUNT.

[Sup. Ct.

items on account of which the objection was sustained, were
on their face such as could not be charged against the defendants upon the bond in suit. For, rejecting these items, there
remained many others with which the collector and his sureties upon his second bond were admitted to be chargeable, and
the transcript was clearly admissible in proof of these. The
presence of the objectionable items could not prejudice the
defendants, for on the supposition, they were separable from
the remainder of the account by mere inspection. On the
other hand, their presence might be important to the government, as explanatory of corresponding items upon the credit
side of the account; particularly in view of the ruling of the
court, which rejected the transcript as evidence against the
defendants, but required it to remain upon the record as proof
against the United States.
For the same reasons the subsequent ruling of the court
must be held to be erroneous, by which it excluded the receipts of the collector on form 231, which constituted the items
upon the debit side of the account. Even if the receipts alone
were not sufficient in each case to charge the collector with
the sums charged as taxes collected upon the assessment lists,
nevertheless they were competent evidence which, by other
testimony, might be made full proof, until overcome by a successful defence. The ground of the objection was that the
form 23 was a receipt for alphabetical lists, showing in detail
the names of persons assessed for taxes and the amounts severally due from each, and that these alphabetical lists were
primary and better evidence to charge the collector than the
receipt on form 23-, which expressed merely the aggregate
amount of the alphabetical lists. But the receipts offered
were signed by the collector, on their face constituted a part
of his official transactions, and fomed the very basis of the
account against him upon the books of the Treasury Departments. The originals would be competent against him, for
they are not secondary evidence, although they may show the
existence of other documents more in detail. The law gives
to a copy certified by the Treasury Department at least the
same force in evidence which the original would otherwise
have.

Oct. 1881.]

ROOT

V. RAILWAY

CO.

The ruling of the court rejecting the original statement
signed by the collector, showing the amounts collected and the
amounts abated as uncollectible during the month, and those
collected on May 18, 1867, was likewise erroneous for the same
reasons.
For these errors the judgment of the Circuit Court is reversed, with instructions to grant a new trial; and it is
So ordered.

ROOT v.

RAILWAY

COMPANY.

A., to whom had been assigned letters-patent, filed, after the expiration of them,
which took place July 6, 1873, his bill against B., charging that the latter had
during their term infringed them by using the patented invention, whereby
he realized gains, profits, and savings, which lie should be compelled to account for and pay to the complainant. The bill was, on demurrer, dismissed.
Held, that the decree below is proper, the bill being merely for an account
of profits and damages against an infringer, and it not appearing from the
case thereby made that any ground of equitable jurisdiction exists, or that

A. has not a complete remedy at law whereby danmages for the wrongs consplained of can be recovered.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Northern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. Albert I1. Walker for the appellant.
Mr. George Payson for the appellee.
delivered the opinion of the court.
Thomas Sayles, as assignee of the letters-patent originally
granted to Henry Tanner for an improvement in railroad car
brakes, dated July 6, 1852, and which, on July 5, 1866, were
renewed and extended for the additional term of seven years,
which expired July 6, 1873, filed his bill in the court below on
Dec. 9, 1878, against the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern
Railway Company. He avers that, by virtue of the assignments to him, he was invested with all rights of action for infringeients of the patent which had occurred, and particularly
MR. JUSTICE MATTHEWS

