Oct. 1881.]

HILLS v. EXCHANGE BANK.

319

HILLS v. EXCHANGE BANK.
1. Supervisors v. Stanley (supra, p. 305) cited and approved.
2. A national bank may, on behalf of its stockholders, maintain a suit to enjoin
the collection of a tax which has been unlawfully assessed on their shares
by the State authorities.
3. Where, under the statute of New York, such stockholder has presented to the
proper board of assessors his affidavit, by showing that his personal property
subject to taxation, including such shares after deducting therefrom his
just debts, is of no yalue, and they refuse on his demand to reduce the
assessment of the shares, an injunction should be awarded to restrain then)
fronm collecting the tax.
4. Where, in a suit by the bank, it is entirely clear front the proofs that all
affidavits and demands of the other stockholders for a deduction from the
assessed value of their respective shares, by reason of just debts which they
owe, would, for purposes of taxation, be disregarded, and the assessors hmve
evinced a fixed purpose to reject every such deduction, this court, in reversing the case, permits an amendment of the pleadings to allow each stockholder to show the amount of the deduction to which he is entitled.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the

Northern D)istrict of New York.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Ar. Ruts W. Peckham and Air. Wheeler Ii. Pecchcam for
the appellants.
Mr. Wayer Swayne and fir. jutlien 7. Daries for the appellee.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

This appeal presents very much the same questions that were
decided in Supervisors v. Stanley, sqpra, p. 305. That was a
common-law action to recover for taxes unlawfully exacted for
years prior to 1879 on shares of the National Albany Exchange
Bank. The present suit to enjoin the appellants from collecting a similar tax assessed and yet unpaid for that year, was
brought by that bank, suing in right of and as representing
all the stockholders. The Circuit Court made a decree perpetually enjoining the collection of all taxes on shares of the
bank. Several questions are raised, or rather suggested, which
we think have heretofore been decided by this court, such as
the right of the bank to maintain a suit on behalf of its shareholders. This was established by the cases of luanmin s v.
National Ban/c, 101 U. S. 153 ; Pelton v. National Banc, id.

HILLS V. EXCHANGE ]3ANK.

[Sup. Ct.

143. There is, also, an attempt to show that there was a
settled rule or purpose on the part of the assessors to value the
shares of the appellee bank higher in proportion to their real
value than in the case of other banks, bankers, and moneyed
corporations. We think the proof fails to establish this ill
a manner to justify the interference of a court of equity.
National Bank v. Kimball, 103 id. 732.
The bill, however, in its main feature, asserts the right to an
injunction, on the ground that the act of 1866, under which
the bank shares were assessed, is absolutely void because it
makes no provision for deduction from the assessed value of
these shares, of the debts honestly owing by the shareholders.
And the court, proceeding upon the idea that both the statute
and the assessment made under it are absolutely void, decreed
relief accordingly. Under the ruling just made on that subject
this decree must of course be reversed, because as to the larger
number of the shareholders whose taxes are enjoined there is
no evidence that they owed any debts whatever at the time the
assessment was made.
The allegations of the bill on this subject are: First,That one
shareholder owning five hundred and thirty-two shares of the
stock made affidavit that the value of personal estate owned by
him, including said bank shares, after deducting his just debts
and other investments not taxable, did not exceed one dollar,
and presented said affidavit to the board of assessors, with a
demand that they should reduce the assessment of his shares
accordingly, which was refused. The evidence shows this to
have been Chauncey P. Williams.
'eeond, That other shareholders were indebted to an amount equal to or in excess of the
personal property owned by them, including their bank shares,
but omitted to make affidavit and demand the proper reduction, because they knew such demand would be refused by the
board, both from information of their refusal in other cases, and
from knowledge of the decisions of the Court of Appeals of
New York that they had no authority to make such deduction.
This allegation is also supported by the evidence of four or five
shareholders who are represented in this action.
While the decree of the court enjoining the collecting officers
as to all the tax assessed on the shares of this bank must be

Oct. 1881.]

HILLS V.

EXCHANGE

]BANK.

reversed, the question arises, what shall be done with the cases
in which it appears that there are shareholders taxed who owed
just debts entitled to deduction.
With regard to the case of Williams, we have no doubt that
there should be an injunction to the amount of his tax. He
made the requisite affidavit and the proper demand for deduction, and his affidavit shows that no assessment should be made
on his shares. He has not yet paid the money, and is entitled to
relief by injunction.
A more difficult question is presented in regard to those who
made no affidavit or demand for deduction, but who have shown
that they would have been entitled to deduction if the demand
had been properly made. That question is, whether the fact
clearly established that their demand would have been unavailing, dispensed with the necessity of making the affidavit and
demand. It is a general rule that when the tender of performance of an act is necessary to the establishment of any right
against another party, this tender or offer to perform is waived
or becomes unnecessary, when it is reasonably certain that the
offer will be refused, - that payment or performance will not
be accepted. Such is the doctrine established by this court in
repeated decisions in regard to another branch of the law concerning the collection of taxes. Bennett v. LIunter, 9 Wall. 326
Tacey v. Irwin, 18 id. 549 ; Atwood v. Weems, 99 U. S. 183.
Without elaborating the matter we are of opinion that, considering the decision of the Court of Appeals of New York,
the action of the assessors in the case of Williams, and their
own testimony in this case, it is entirely clear that all affidavits and demands for deduction which could or might haw,
been made would have been disregarded an(d unavailing, and
that the assessors had a fixed purpose, generally known to all
persons interested, that no deductions for debts would be made
in the valuation of bank shares for taxation. It is, therefore,
not now essential to show such an offer when it is established
that there were debts to be deducted and when the matter is still
in fieri, the tax being unpaid. And we are of opinion that it is
open to the court below when this ease returns to permit such
amendment of the pleadings as will enable the complainant to
make proper allegations on that subject, or by reference to a,
voLr.

xv.

21

EVANSVILLE

BANK

V. B1ITTON.

[Sup. Ct.

master to allow each shareholder to establish the amount of
deduction to which he was entitled at the time of the assessment, and to enjoin the collection of a corresponding part of
the tax. But as the assessment is not void, but only voidable,
it must stand good for all of the assessment in each case which
is not shown to be in excess of the just debts of the shareholder
that should be deducted.
Decree reversed, and cause remandedfor further proceedings
in accordance with this opinion.

EVANSVILLE
BRITTON v.

BANK v. BRITTON.
EVANSVILLE

BANK.

1. The taxation of national bank shares by the statute of Indiana, without permitting the owner of them to deduct from their assessed value the amount
of his bona fide indebtedness, as he may in the case of other investments
of moneyed capital, is a discrimination forbidden by the act of Congress.
2. Supervisors v. Stanley (siqra,1). 305) and Hills v. Exchange Baunc (supra, p. 319)
cited, and the rulings there made approved.
3. The points of difference between the New York statute there considered, and
the Indiana statute applicable to this case pointed out.

APPEALS from the Circuit Court of the United States, for
the District of Indiana.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

The case was argued by Mk. Asa Iglehart and Mr. Thomas A.
Hendricks for the bank, and by Mr. Jacob S. Buchanan and
Mr. Benjamin Harrison for Britton.
MR. JUSTICE MILLEJR delivered the opinion of the court.
These are cross-appeals from a decree rendered in a suit in
chancery, in which the Evansville National Bank was complainant, and Britton, as treasurer of Vanderburgh County,
Indiana, was defendant.
The case is in all essential points analogous to that of Hills
v. Exchange Bank, supra, p. 319, just decided.
The principal question of law is the same as that discussed

