Oct. 1881.]

,rPlE 'IS. S. OSBOaIN,."

latter strenuously defended the suit as to the whole; but it
turns out, on the final hearing, that as to more than half of it
his claim is unsupported, and that the injunction was properly issued. A decree was made accordingly, from which no
appeal has been taken. We must presume that it was equitable
and just. This fact alone would make a _prima facie case for
the decree in relation to damages. We have not been able
to find anything in the record which leads us to think that it
was erroneous or improper.
-Decree afrmed.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY did not sit in this case, nor take any

part in deciding it.

THE "S.

S. OSBOaNE."

1. Where, to the next Circuit Court, the District Court sitting in admiralty
allowed an appeal from its decree, altlough the same was not, in accordance
with its rules, prayed for in writing, the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court at
once attached, notwithstanding the failure of the clerk of the District Court
to deliver within twenty days, as required by its rules, to the clerk of the
Circuit Court the appeal and record.
2. A cross-appeal to this court must be prosecuted as any other appeal, or it will
be dismissed.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Ohio.
William G. Winslow and Hezekiah J. Winslow filed their
libel in the proper District Court against the schooner " S. S.
Osborne," alleging that they were the owners of the schooner
"American Union," and that while she was on her voyage on
Lake Michigan the "S. S. Osborne," ran into her, whereby she
suffered damage, and that the collision was caused solely by
the negligence and improper conduct of the " S. S. Osborne."
The " S. S. Osborne" was seized, but was subsequently released, on Bliss 0. Wilcox, the claimant, entering into the requisite stipulations. He answered the libel by denying its material
allegations, and filed a cross-libel against the " American Union,"
claiming that she was wholly in fault, and that by the collision

TH1E

"

S. S. OSBORNE'."

[Sup. Ct.

the "1S. S. Osborne" was damaged. The answer to the crosslibel was filed, and, Dec. 26, 1877, the District Court dismissed
the cross-libel and rendered a decree against the " S. S. Osborne," from which on the same day Wilcox appealed. The
entry in relation thereto is inserted in the opinion of this court.
The Circuit Court, both parties appearing therein, rendered a
decree, from which each appealed. The remaining facts are
stated in the opinion of this court.
3r. Jacob D. Cox and 31rt. S. Prentiss for the claimant.
Mr. 1. A. Terrell and M~r. Albert G. Riddle, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The question presented by the appeal of the Winslows is,
whether the Circuit Court erred in taking jurisdiction of
the appeal of Wilcox from the District Court. Sect. 631 of
the Revised Statutes provides that from all final decrees of the
District Courts in causes of equity or of admiralty and maritime jurisdictions, except prize causes, where the matter in
dispute exceeds fifty dollars, appeals shall be allowed to the
Circuit Court next to be held in such district, and the Circuit
Court is required to receive, hear, and determine such appeal.
It is not declared in this section what shall constitute an appeal
from the District to the Circuit Court, any more than it is in
sect. 692 what shall be an appeal from the Circuit Court to
this court. Admiralty Rule 45 of this court provides that appeals from the District to the Circuit Courts, in admiralty
cases, must be made while the court is sitting, or within such
other period as shall be designated by the District Court by
its general rules, or by an order specifically made in a particular suit, or, in case no such rule or order is made, then within
thirty days from rendering the decree ; and, Rule 46, that in
cases not provided for by the rules of this court, the District
and Circuit Courts may regulate their own practice.
The District Court for the Northern District of Ohio provided by rule that appeals in admiralty to the Circuit Court
should be taken within ten days from the date' of the decree,
unless further time was given by a special order of the judge;
that the appeal should be in writing and specify particularly

Oct. 1881.]

THIE

"

S. S.

OSBORNE."

from what part of the decree, if less than the whole, it was
taken ; whether it was intended to make any new allegations
or proofs, and, if so, what; whether it was intended to pray
for any other relief, and, if so, what; and further providing
that on the trial the appellant should be strictly confined to
the specifications in his appeal. The rule also required that
the appeal should be filed with the clerk, and from that time,
security having been given, it should be considered perfected.
It was then made the duty of the clerk, within twenty days,
unless a longer time should be allowed by the judge, to prepare
and deliver to the clerk of the Circuit Court, together with the
appeal, the record required by the fifty-second rule of this
court, and that when this was done so much of the case as was
appealed should be in the exclusive control of the Circuit Court.
In the present case the date of the decree in the District
Court was Dec. 26, 1877. At the foot of the decree, and as
part of it, is the following: "And thereupon said Bliss 0. Wilcox, claimant of said
schooner 'S. S. Osborne,' gave due notice of his intention to
appeal this cause to the next Circuit Court, which said appeal
is allowed, and bond therefor is fixed at eight thousand dollars.
And it is further ordered that the time within which said
appeal shall be perfected shall be extended for the period of
twenty days from this date."
It does not appear that any formal appeal in writing was
ever filed with the clerk of the District Court, but within the
time fixed bond for an appeal was given and duly accepted.
The record was not filed in the Circuit Court, neither was the
canse docketed there until Feb. 27, 1878. This was during
the term of the Circuit Court which began on the 15th of
January, and which was the term next held after the decree in
the District Court. With the record there was filed in the
Circuit Court an appeal in writing, such as the rule required.
On the 11th of March the Winslows moved the Circuit Court
to dismiss the suit, because no appeal in writing had been
made, as the rules of the District Court required, and also because the suit had not been docketed in the Circuit Court in
time. This motion was denied. The ruling of the Circuit
Court to that effect is now assigned for error by the Winslows.
VOL. XV.

29

THE " S. S. OSBORNE."

[Sup. Ct.

An appeal in admiralty from the District to the Circuit
Court must be to the term of the Circuit Court held next after
the decree, and it must be made while the District Court is
sitting, or within the time required by the general rules or a
special order. These requirements are jurisdictional. They
are prescribed either by the act of Congress or by the rules of
this court, promulgated under the authority of an act of Congress, and having the force of law. All except this is mere
procedure in either the District or Circuit Court. The rule of
the District Court, requiring an appeal to )e in writing and
filed with the clerk, could certainly be dispensed with by that
court. It simply prescribed a mode of proceeding to get an
appeal, and while it continued in force the court might properly refuse to allow an appeal or accept security until what was
required had been done. But if the District Court allows an
appeal without the writing, the appellee cannot object to the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court on that account. Here it distinetly appears that Wilcox claimed his appeal while the court
was sitting, and that his claim was formally allowed by the
court. In this way any further appeal in writing was dispensed with, and when afterwards the bond was given and
accepted, the appeal was as clearly perfected as it would have
been if a writing, such as the rule required, had been filed with
the clerk. From that time the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court attached, and could not be taken away by any act or
requirement of the District Court.
The provision in the rule of the District Court, that the clerk
should prepare and deliver to the Circuit Court the appeal and
record in twenty days, cannot prevent the Circuit Court from
entertaining the cause if for any reason this is not done. The
appeal, when once made, continues during the whole of the
next term of the Circuit Court, unless sooner dismissed by that
cotirt for want of prosecution or otherwise, in accordance with
its own practice. It follows that, so far as the appeal of the
Winslows is concerned, the decree must be affirmed.
When the decree of the Circuit Court was rendered, both
the Winslows and Wilcox appealed to this court. The Winslows filed the transcript and docketed their appeal here on the
19th of September, 1879; but Wilcox neither entered his

Oct. 1881.]

Ex

PARTE SLAYTON.

appearance as an appellant in this court, nor did anything to
make himself an actor in reference to his own appeal, until
March 23, 1882, the day before the cause was called for hearing. Under these circumstances we must decline to consider
his appeal. Grigsby v. Purcell, 99 U. S. 505. Rule 9 of this
court requires every plaintiff in error or appellant, on docketing his cause, to have the appearance of counsel entered; and
Rule 10, that he secure the costs. Cross-appeals must be prosecuted like other appeals. Every appellant, to entitle himself
to be heard on his own appeal, must appear here as an actor in
his own behalf by having the appearance of counsel entered
and giving the security required by the rules. Otherwise,
if he is here as appellee on the appeal of his adversary, he
will be heard only in support of the decree as it was entered
below. If he asks affirmative relief beyond what he got below,
he must enter himself in this court in due time as the prosecutor of his own appeal, even though his adversary has docketed
the case against him.
Decree affirmed. The appeal of Wilcox dismissed for want
of prosecution.

Ex

PARTE SLAYTON.

The owner of a vessel may, before le or it is sued, institute appropriate proceetings in a court of competent jurisdiction, to obtain the benefit of the limitation

of liability provided for by sects. 4284 and 4285 of the Revised Statutes.

PETITION for a writ of prohibition.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Alfred Russell for the petitioner.
Mr. J. H. AcGowan, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
We are of opinion that, notwithstanding Admiralty Rules
Nos. 54, 55, 56, and 57 of this court, the owner of a vessel may
institute appropriate proceedings, in a court of competent juris-

