Oct. 1881.]

PACKET Co. v. CATLETTSBURG,

PACKET COMPANY V. CATLETTSBUIG.
1. A town situate upon navigable waters may, without infringing the Constitu.
tion of the United States, erect wharves, collect reasonable wharfage proportioned to the tonnage of vessels, and forbid them, under a penalty, to
land within the corporate limits at any point other than the public wharf
or landing.
2. The ordinances of the town of Catlettsburg (in/ia, p. 560), adopted pursuant to
the power conferred by its charter, are not unconstitutional, and this case
shows no such abuse of that power as entities the complainant to relief.
3. Congress has not prescribed the rules touching the landing and departure of
vessels, wharfage, and other matters relating thereto, which are enforced
at points upon the navigable waters of the country where the amount of
commerce requires then ; and if they may be justly regarded as regulations
of commerce, they are such as the States may respectively adopt, until that
body deems it expedient to act.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Kentucly."
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr.. David Stuart Hounshell for the appellant.
There was no opposing counsel.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a suit in chancery brought by the Cincinnati,
Portsmouth, Big Sandy, and Pomeroy Packet Company against
the Board of Trustees of the Town of Catlettsburg.
The bill is very inartificially drawn, and its allegations very
imperfectly present some of the questions which, by the brief
of counsel, it is supposed to have raised.

It alleges the con-

plainant to be a corporation, owning a large number of steamboats engaged in the navigation of the Ohio River, and making
frequent landings at the public wharf of the town of Catlett,burg, on the Kentucky side of that river. That upon each of
said landings they were subjected to an illegal tax proportioned
to the tonnage of each of said boats, amnounting, between Jan.
1, 1870, and April 30, 1877, to an aggregate sum of $5,092.
Parts of the ordinance of the town under which this tax was
collected, and of the statute of Kentucky supposed to authorize
the ordinance, are set out in the bill. This ordinance is alleged to be void as a regulation of commerce, and as laying a

PACKE'r Co. v. CATLETTSBURG.

ESup. Ct.

duty of tonnage forbidden by section ten of the first article of
the Constitution. The bill then alleges that the tax is excessive and beyond a reasonable charge for the use of the
whar oy the boats of the complainant, and that the amount
already collected exceeds the cost of erecting and preserving
the wharf.
An amended bill was also filed, which does not materially
affect the matters in issue.
The thirty-first section of the act of the Kentucky legislature of Jan. 28, 1868, incorporating the town of Catlettsburg,
authorizes the board of trustees " to erect, make, and repair
wharves and docks, and to regulate and fix the rate of wharfage thereat; to regulate the stationing or anchoring of vessels
or boats or rafts within the town limits, and the depositing
freight or lumber on the public wharves."
The ordinances of the town comlplained of are the following,
enacted Feb. 23, 1871: "The following rates are established as charges upon steamboats
and other water-crafts landing at the public landing of Catlettsburo1:,
Ky. : On transient steamboats, 121 fbr every landing ; on the largestsized regular packets, over 100 tons, custom-house measure, $1 l'or
each landing; and on all steamliboats under 100 tons burthen, fifty
cents for each landing; for all store-boats or trading-boats, $1 for
each landing, and if they remain more than one day, fifty cents per
day for each day they remain ; and for each wharf'boat used for the
purpose of wharfage and commission, $10 por month."
And another, adopted by said board of trustees May 5,
1873, in the following words :"That the public landing on the Ohio River, between Division
and Main Streets, is hereby appointed and established as a steamboat landing, and all steamboats arriving at the town of Catlettsburg siall land at the wharf situate as aforesaid between Division
Street and Main Street, and at no other point within the corporate
limits of the town of Catlettsburg, except by the written consent of
the whlartinaster of said tow'nl.
"That for any violation of the foregoing section the owners, controllers, or masters of aly boat so violating shall be jointly and
severally liable to pay a fine of $10 for each offence, which may be
recovered by warrant in the name of the Commonweath of Ken-

.Oct. 1881.]

PACKET CO. V. CATLETTsBURGC.

tucky, for the use of the Board of Trustees of the town of Catlettsburg.
"It is hereby made the duty of the whrfmnaster to enforce this
ordinance, and to report and prosecute all violations thereof."

The prayer of the bill is for an injunction restraining the defendants from the collection of all taxes from the complainant's

boats while landing at the natural and unimproved shore of the
Ohio River, and at points other than the improved landing of
the defendants, between Division and Main St reets, and from
the collection of all excessive taxes while landing at any point
within the corporate limits, and from the enforcement of the
ordinance requiring them to land at the (lefemilants' improved
wharf, between Division and Main Streets ; and the original
bill prayed a decree for the sums improperly exacted of complainant.
The court below held, on demurrer to the original bill, that
there could be no recovery in this suit for the amount illegally
exacted and paid, because an action at law was the appropriate
and adequate remedy for that purpose, and in that the court
was probably right.
If, however, the bill presents no ground for the injunction
prayed, the prayer for recovery of a moneyed decree becomes
immaterial.
The framer of the bill seems to have labored under a misapprehension of the nature of the transaction in calling the
demands made of the complainant taxes. We can see nothing
in the ordinances intended to impose a tax upon anybody.
The bill, as we have said, is not very clear in its statements of
the manner in which this money was paid or collected. It
must, however, have been paid for the use of defendants' wharf
or improved landing-place, in which ease it is complained of as
an excessive charge, or it must have been paid as a penalty for
landing at other points than between Division and Main Streets
in violation of the ordinance. In neither case is there anything in the nature of a tax.
The effort of the pleader undoubtedly is to bring the case
within the constitutional prohibition of a tax upon tonnage.
If, however, the trustees of the town had a right to compensation for the use of the improved landing or wharf which they
VOL. xv.

36

PACKET CO. V. CATLETTSBURG.

[Sup. Ct.

had made, it is no objection to the ordinance fixing the amount
of this compensation that it was measured by the size of the
vessel, and that this size was ascertained by the tonnage of
each vessel. It is idle, after the decisions we have made, to
call this a tax upon tonnage. Cannon v. New Orleans, 20
Wall. 577 ; Packet Company v. Keokuk, 95 U. S. 80 ; Packet
Utompatq v. St. Louis, 100 id. 4203; GuV v. Baltimore, id. 434.
Still less ground exists for holding that the penalties imposed
for a refusal to obey the rules for places of landing, and the orders of the wharfmaster on that subject, are taxes on tonnage.
Nor is there any room to question the right of a city or
town situated on navigable waters to build and own a wharf
suitable for vessels to land at, and to exact a reasonable compensation for the facilities thus afforded to vessels by the use
of such wharves, and that this is no infringement of the constitutional provisions concerning tonnage taxes and the regulation
of commerce. See cases above cited.
There remains to be considered the validity of the ordinance
which forbids the landing of vessels, except by the permission
of the wlarfmaster, at any other point within the town than
between Division and Main Streets, and the question of excessive charges for the use of the wharf.
There can be no doubt that the rules which govern the landing and departure of vessels at points situated on navigable
waters may seriously affect them in their business of navigation and transportation, and in some sense such rules are regulations of commerce.
On the other hand, the necessity is obvious of the existence
in each port, where vessels as large as steamboats land at the
shore and deposit their cargoes on the banks of navigable
streams, of some authority to prescribe the places where this
may be done, the time of doing it, and the points at which
they may discharge cargo, both as relates to the streets, shores,
houses of the town, and other vessels landing at the same time.
The protection of the shore of the sea or bank of a river on
which a town is situated is a necessity to the town, and the
washing and crumbling of the bank from the agitation of the
waters, made by the landing of large steamers, demand that
such regulations should exist.

Oct. 1881.]

PACKET CO. V. CATLETTSBURG.

Small vessels, without steam, rafts, flat-boats, keel-boats,
loaded to their very utmost capacity, ind liable to be sunk by
the waves which accompany the landing of large steamboats,
have the same right to land at the shore that steamers have,
and they have a right to protection against their powerful competitors for trade. This can best be secured by appropriate
regulations prescribing places for the landing of each, and in
some instances placing the matter under the control of a
wharfmaster or other officer, whose duty it shall be to look
after it.
Such rules and regulations and such an officer exist in every
place where the number of the inhabitants or the amount of
the water-borne commerce justifies or requires it. The necessity for the existence of this power cannot be doubted.
We are not aware that in any instance Congress has attempted to exercise it. If it be a regulation of commerce
under the power conferred on Congress by the Constitution,
that body has signally failed to provide any such regulation.
It belongs also, manifestly, to that class of rules which, like
pilotage and some others, can be most wisely exercised by local
authorities, and in regard to which no general rules, applicable
alike to all ports and landing-places, can be properly made.
If a regulation of commerce at all, it comes within that class
in which the States may prescribe rules until Congress assumes to do so. Cooley v. Board of lVardens, 12 How. 299 ;
Gilman v. Philadelphia,3 Wall. 713; Crandall v. State o'
Nevada, 6 id. 35; Pound v. Ttrec, 95 U. S. 459.
There is probably not a city or large town in the United
States, situated on a navigable water, where ordinances, rules,
and regulations like those of the town of Catlettsburg are not
made and imposed by authority derived from State legislation,
and the long acquiescence in this exercise of the power, and its
absolute necessity, are arguments almost conclusive in favor of
its rightful existence.
We are of opinion that there is nothing in the ordinances of
the town of Catlettsburg complained of, authorized as they
clearly are by the statute of Kentucky, which is repugnant to
the Constitution of the United States.
But while the authority to make such regulations may exist

PACKET

CO. V. CATLETTSBURG.

[Sup. Ct.

in the trustees of that town, it must be conceded that an oppressive abuse in the exercise of that power may present a case
in which the proper court could give relief. If, for instance,
while forbidding all boats to land elsewhere than at a designated
and limited part of the shore, that space was too small to permit the landing at the same time of vessels whose business required it; or if, having assumed the obligation of providing
appropriate and sufficient wharf accommodations and forbidden
boats to land at any other place, there was in fact no proper
landing-place provided, a court would find some remedy for
such oppressive and arbitrary conduct.
But nothing in this bill implies that the landinig-place pointed
out by the ordinance is insufficient in dimensions or wanting
in proper means of accommodating the business of the vessels
using it.

So, also, while the statute authorizes the trustees to establish
the rates of wharfage, if the sum demanded for that service
is so far beyond a reasonable compensation for the use of the
city's wharf as to be oppressive, and an abuse of the power
thus conferred, the courts could in some way give appropriate
relief, and it is this part of appellant's case which presents the
only difficult question for our consideration.
We do not feel justified, however, on the allegations of this
bill, in reversing the order of the Circuit Court, sustaining a
demurrer to it, for several reasons.
In the first place, the bill is manifestly founded on the idea
of the unconstitutionality of these ordinances, and an injunction is asked to restrain defendants from interfering with the
landing anywhere within the city limits of appellant's boats,
and in general from enforcing the obnoxious ordinances. There
is, it is true, a prayer to restrain them from the collection of all
excessive taxes while their boats are landing within the corporate limits; but what is excessive or what is reasonable is not
shown, and, as we have already said, the money collected is not
taxes in any sense whatever.
In the next place, the bill does not show how or why the
sums paid for the use of the wharf, or for landing at other
places, is excessive. The one reason for so charging which is
given i evidently fallacious ; namely, that the town has already

Oct. 1881.]

PACKET CO. v. CATLETTSBURG.

raised enough money from the use of the wharf to pay for its
construction and preservation.
The compensation which either the city or private owner of
a wharf is entitled to receive is not to be based exclusively on
a reimbursement of the cost of the wharf, and no such criteriop
can govern in the matter.
The ordinance establishing these rates and penalties is given
in the bill, and has been copied in this opinion. It is by no
means apparent that they are excessive. When it is considered that the wharf needs constant repair and care; that the
compensation of a wharfmaster, who must be always ready to
locate the vessels and collect the charges, is to be paid ; and
that the character and extent of the improvements are not
shown, it would seem that something more than characterizing
those rates as excessive is needed to invoke the restraining power
of a court of equity. It is not alleged that they are oppressive,
or an abuse of the power confided to the trustees. No statement is made of what would be reasonable in the premises, and,
consistently with the bill, the charge may be so little in excess
of a just compensation as not to call for equitable relief.
There is no hindrance to trying this question in an action at
law, where the verdict of a jury or the judgment of the court
in one or two cases would establish what is reasonable under
the circumstances; and this being once established by the
appropriate tribunal, the court of equity could restrain the
excess.
We concur with the circuit judge, that no such case of oppressive use or clear abuse of the power properly conferred on
the trustees in regard to wharfage charges is alleged by this
bill as to justify the interposition of a court of equity.
-Decree affirmed.

