Oct. 1881.]

WUPRTS v. HOAGLAND.

Constitution, which provides that "no person shall be held to
answer a capital or otherwise infamous crime, unless on a presentment or indictment of a grand jury." The limitation as to
"actual service in time of war or public danger" relates only
to the militia. Dynes v. Hoover, 20 How. 65.
Petition denied.

WURTS v. HOAGLAND.
IRON COMPANY v. HOAGLAND.
1 The time within which a writ of error rrust be served, in order that it may
operate as a sitpersedeas, must be computed front the date of the judgment
which is the subject of review.
2. The writ of error did not in either of these eases operate as a sq)ersedeas, as
the required bond wits filed Oct. 27, 1881, and the judgment of the Supreme
Court of New Jersey was affirmed by the Court of Errors and Appeals
July 18, 1881, and the record remitted Aug. 31, 1881.

RULE to show cause why an attachment should not issue
against the defendant in error, for having sued out executions
upon the judgments below after supersedeas bonds in due form
and approved security had been filed within the prescribed time.
Mr. Theodore Little in support of the rule.
Mr. Jehiel G. Shipman, contra.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

The controversy in these cases arose out of an assessment of
benefits for the drainage of lands in New Jersey. It was decided by the Supreme Court of that State, Dec. 1, 1880. -The
Court of Errors and Appeals affirmed the judgment on the
18th of July, 1881, and the record was remitted Aug. 31, 1881.
()n receiving the remittitur on that day, the Supreme Court
entered a rule ordering it to be filed and the cause to be proceeded with according to law. Writs of error from this court
to the Supreme Court of New Jersey were allowed and bonds
approved Oct. 27, 1881, and on the following day were filed in
the clerk's office of the latter court. The writs of error were
properly directed to the Supreme Court, because at that time

WURTS V. HOAGLAND.

[SLIP. Ct.

the record had been transmitted to it, and was then in its possession. See Atherton v. ]Fowler, 91 U. S. 143, 148. But at
any time before the remittitur the writs might have been directed to the Court of Errors and Appeals, because the judgment of that court was the final judgment in the cause, and
until the remittitur was made it had possession of the record
in contemplation of law. It is that judgment which is the
subject of revision here. The plaintiff in error insists that
the action of the Supreme Court, on receiving the remittitur,
was the final judgment. But this is not correct. Such action
was not necessary to the jurisdiction of this court. A number
of instances might be cited in which, without any reeiittitur, a
writ of error from this court has been directed to the Court of
Errors and Appeals of New Jersey. This was the course in
the noted cases of State of New Jersey v. Wilson, 7 Cranch,
164; Bridge Proprietors v. f1oho/cen Company, 1 Wall. 116;
and New Jersey v. Yard, 95 U. S. 104.
In those States where the highest court does not have possession of the record, and does not render a judgment, but
decides questions certified by the inferior courts, and merely
issues a rescript directing the latter what judgment to render,
the case would perhaps be different. But in New Jersey the
record itself, or a transcript which stands for the record, is
removed to the Court of Errors and Appeals, and a regular
judgment is there rendered. For certain purposes, as in Eng-.
land on writs of error from the House ol Lords, the judgment
of the inferior court pending proceeding in error is supposed
to be in existence. Action upon it may be brought, and, on
failure to give proper bail in error, execution may be issued.
Butfor all other purposes, when a writ of error goes to anl
inferior court, the Court of Errors and Appeals obtains possession of the cause and renders a formal judgment therein.
If the judgment of the inferior court is reversed, the Court of
Errors usually renders such judgment as ought to have been
rendered, though it has the power to direct the court below
what judgment to give. It is only necessary to open a book of
New Jersey reports, containing decisions of the highest court,
to ascertain its jurisdiction in this behalf. Thus, in 2d Zabriskie, 623, is a judgment in the case of Demarest v. Iopper,

Oct. 1881.]

STEVENSON

v. TEXAS RAILWAY Co.

reversing the judgment of the Supreme Court in an action of
ejeetment, and rendet-iug judgment for the plaintiff, and in
the same book, p. 725, is another judgment of reversal in the
case of hlopper v. itOpj)er, coupled with a judgment for the
demandant in an action of dower, with a direction to the Supreme Court to award a writ of inquiry to assess the damages,
and to issue execution therefor.
We think that the final judgment in these cases was rendered on the eighteenth day of July, 1881, being the judgment
rendered by the Court of Errors and Appeals ; and that as
the writs of error were not issued and served until the 28th of
October, more than sixty days thereafter, they were too late
to operate as a supersedeas. The rules to show cause must
therefore be
Discharged.

STEVENSON v.

TEXAS

RAILWAY

COMPANY.

1. Judgment creditors who cause an execution to be levied upon lands of tie
defendant in Texas acquire a lien superior to that of his unrecorded mortgage, whereof, at the date of the levy, they had no notice.
2. A purchaser at the sale under that execution is entitled to all the rights of
the creditors, and takes the lands freed from the mortgage, although it be
recorded before such sale.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Texas.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. William S. Ilerndon and Hr. Anthony Q. Keasbey for
the appellant.
r. Jnes Lowndes for the
.1r, Walter D. Davidqe -and
a.ppellee.
MR. JUSTICE MA'rTHEWS delivered the opinion of the court.

In the view which we have taken of this case, it becomes
necessary to decide but a single question. The facts necessary
to its determination may be slimmed up as follows: The Texas and Pacific Railway Company is a corporation

