WARREN V. STODDART,

[Sup. C[.

the purpose of paying the debt due them would not be questioned, until the failure and assignment of Powell & Co. made
any other resort useless; and, having induced them to alter
their condition by reliance upon assurances, which were equivalent to a declaration that it had no adverse claim, the appellee
cannot now be permitted to assert a lien, lost by its own
laches, and the enforcement of which would operate as a
fraud.
For these reasons, we conclude that the appellants are entitled to the relief sought by their bill, and that the decree, so
far as it denies it, must be reversed and the cause remanded
with instructions to modify the decree in accordance with this
opinion; and it is
So ordered.

WARREN V.

STODDART.

1. Where a party,. entitled to the benefit of a contract, can, at a trifling expense
and with reasonable exertions, save himself from a loss arising from a
breach of it, it is his duty to do so, and he can charge delinquents only
with such damages as with reasonable endeavor he could not prevent.
2. The contract between the parties (infrot, p. 225) construed. Held, that W. having put an end to it by canvassing on behalf of another party for a rival
edition of the same work, and cancelling the orders lie had obtained for S.'s
reprint, S. was not bound thereafter to furnish him with copies of the work
on credit.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the

Northern District of Illifiois.
Joseph M. Stoddart was a book publisher, carrying on business in the city of Philadelphia, under the name of J. M. Stoddart & Co. In 1878 he undertook to reprint and sell in the
United States a new edition, consisting of twenty-one volumes,
of the Encyclopmdia Britannica, which A. & C. Black, of
Edinburgh, Scotland, were then bringing out.
His plan was to sell the work by subscription only; the subscriptions were to be obtained by agents and canvassers, to

whom certain territory was to be allotted.

It was expected

Oct. 1881.]

WARREN

v. STODDART.

that the work would be printed and published at the rate of
about three volumes per year.
Moses Warren was an agent in the city of Chicago for the
sale of subscription books ; that is, books sold only by subscription. On Feb. 24, 1877, he and Stoddart entered into a contract in writing, which is as follows: " PnILADELPHIA, Feb. 24, 1877.
"Agreement entered into this day between J. M. STODDAIT & Co.,
of Philadelphia, Pa., and Mosiis WARREN, of Chicago, Ill.
"The said J. M. Stoddart & Co. agree to give the said Moses
Warren a general agency for the sale of the American reprint of
the Encyclopmdia Britannica in the following territory."

fIer6 follows a description of the territory, consisting of
several States and parts of States, and a list of the prices at
which Stoddart & Co. agreed to furnish Warren with the books
in various styles of binding. The contract then proceeds: -"Said J. M. Stoddart & Co. also agree to give to said Moses
Warren the exclusive right to sell the Encyclopodia Britannica
within the above-named territory, during such time as said Warren
shall faithfully perfbrrm his part of the agreement as hereinafter
stated.
"1st,Said Warren agrees to use his best endeavors to promote
Britannica in the above-assigned field.
the sale of the
"2d, To send to ,J. M. Stoddart & Co. a weekly report of the
number of orders taken the week previous.
"3d, To fill no orders outside of his assigned field.
"4th, To leave no volumes with booksellers to sell or display in
their stores.
"5th, To furnish no volumes at less than the regular retail price.
"6th, To remit on the 7th day of the month one-half the amount
of monthly statement for previous month, and to remit on the 26th
day of the month the remaining one-half of said monthly statement.
"Witness our hands and seals on the day and date above mentioned.
"J. M. STODDART & Co. [SEAL.]
[sEAL.]
"MosEs WARREN."

Warren at once entered upon the performance of this contract, and by April 20, 1878, had obtained and reported to
Stoddart subscriptions for 1,733 sets of the work, and had deVOL. XV.

15

WARREN V. STODDART.

[Sup. Ct.

livered to subscribers a portion of the volumes of the work
which had been issued up to that time; on an average less
than four volumes to each subscriber.
In the latter part of the year 1877 or early in 1878 the
Scotch publishers of the Encyclopadia and the house of Scribner & Armstrong, of New York, formed a plan to issue in this
country an edition of the Encyclopedia, to compete with the
reprint of Stoddart, by striking off sheets from the original
stereotype plates and engravings of the Scotch edition and
sending them to this country to be bound and sold by subscription, on substantially the same plan as that which had been
adopted by Stoddart to put his reprint into circulation.
Sometime in May, 1878, Scribner & Armstrong comwnenced
negotiations with Warren, which resulted in a contract between them, dated May 14, 1878, by which they constituted
him their agent, with the exclusive right to sell, until its publication was completed, their edition of the Encyclopmdia
within the same territory substantially as that mentioned in
the contract between Stoddart and Warren, and agreed to furnish him with copies of the Encyclopadia at prices therein
named. He stipulated on his part that from and after the
date of the contract be would not canvass for any other Encyclopmdia, or any other edition of any Encyclopedia, but that he
" should have the privilege of completing orders already taken
for the reprint edition of Stoddart to all subscribers therefor."
After the making of this contract Warren fefused to canvass
further for Stoddart's reprint edition. Whereupon Stoddart
refused to furnish him, except for cash on delivery, the books
with which to fill the orders which he had obtained for Stoddart's reprint edition.
Upon this point the evidence was as follows: On June 5,
1878, Warren sent an order to Stoddart requesting him to forward a certain number of books to be furnished subscribers, to
which Stoddart replied by letter, dated June 6, 1878, that "as
to all future orders, for the present they will be filled when
cash accompanies the orders."
On June 10, 1878, Warren wrote to Stoddart as follows: " I
am desirous of delivering reprint fast as possible on my orders
heretofore taken for same. If my orders for stock are filled

Oct. 1881.]

WARREN V. STODDART.

they shall be paid for according to contract. Do you intend
to fill my orders on that basis? "
To this letter Stoddart replied by telegraph as follows:
Will fill order when cash is received in accordance with our
letter of June 6." There is no evidence that Stoddart ever
refused to fill a cash order; nor was it pretended that Warren,
after that date, ever sent an order to Stoddart with the cash
to pay for the books ordered.
After the refusal of Stoddart to supply Warren with the books
except for cash, the latter induced 1,253 of the subscribers to
Stoddart's reprint edition to exchange the subscription to the
reprint for a subscription to the Scotch edition, and lie claimed
that he expended in obtaining their exchange an average of four
dollars for each subscription, making a total of $5,012. He
also claimed that the Stoddart reprint volumes taken back from
said subscribers were worth $12,206 less than the amount paid
by him to Stoddart for them, and less than what lie could sell
them for in the market. Warren also claimed that he lost his
profits on four hundred and eighty orders which were not exchanged, amounting to the sum of $20,073.
This suit was brought by Stoddart to recover of Warren the
sum of $2,976.53 for books furnished him to supply his subscribers. It was not disputed by Warren that the amount sued
for was due and owing from him to Stoddart. But Warren,
by way of set-off, averred the making of the contract with
Stoddart aboye set forth, and claimed that he had been damaged by the refusal of Stoddart to perform the contract, in the
sum of $30,000.
Upon the trial of the case, the judge instructed the jury
that the defendant's claim for damages could not be allowed as
against the plaintiff's claim in the suit, and that the plaintiff
was entitled to a verdict for the full amount sued for by him
and admitted to be due; namely, $2,976.53. The jury returned
a verdict accordingly, on which judgment was entered. This
writ of error is prosecuted by Warren to reverse that judgment.
Mr. Van H Higgins and Mr. Isaac N. Arnold for the plaintiff in error.
There was no opposing counsel.

WARREN V. STODDART.

[Sup. ("t,

MR. JUSTICE WOODS, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The only question in the case is whether or not the instruction of the court to the jury, to the effect that, on the facts,
the plaintiff in error was entitled to no damages, is correct.
This will depend upon the construction which is to be put
on the contract between Stoddart and Warren, of Feb. 24,
1877.
The contract is indefinite as to the time during which it was
to continue in force. It is probable that the parties supposed
the contract would continue until the twenty-one volunes
were published, or at least until the territory named in the
contract had been thoroughly canvassed. But no time was
mentioned in the contract, nor did it make any provision
with respect to the unfilled orders in case of its termination
before the publication was completed, and we are left to construe it and settle the rights of the parties under it as they
have made it.
The complaint of Warren is not that Stoddart refused to
furnish him with the books necessary to fill the orders he had
taken, nor that lie refused to furnish the books at the price
fixed by their contract. His sole complaint is that Stoddart
refused to furnish the books on a credit of about thirty days,
which Warren insists the contract provided for, and demanded
the cash.
He claims that after he had stopped canvassing for the reprint of Stoddart, and had made a contract with and entered
into the service of a rival publisher of the same work, and had
begun in the interest of the rival publisher a canvass of the
same territory which had been allotted to him exclusively by
his contract with Stoddart, he had the right, upon the refusal
of the latter to furnish the books on thirty days' credit, to
obtain a cancellation of the orders he had taken for Stoddart's
reprint, and substitute therefor orders for the rival edition, and
charge the expense of the substitution to Stoddart.
We think it entirely clear that he had no such right. There
was no express provision in the contract between Warren and

Stoddart which required the latter to furnish the books on
credit, and we think that the provision of the contract that

Oct. 188t.]

WARREN V. STODDART.

Warren should remit on the seventh day of the month onehalf the amount of monthly statement for previous month,
and on the twenty-sixth day the remaining half, was not continued in force after Warren had terminated the contract and
abandoned the service of Stoddart under it.
Although the contract fixed no time during which it was to
continue in force, yet we think when either party terminated
it, the other was no longer bound by its provisions. It gave
Warren the exclusive right to sell the books within certain
territory, and by it Stoddart agreed to furnish them to him at
stipulated prices and on stipulated terms. On his part Warren
agreed to use his best endeavors to promote the sale of the
work in the field exclusively assigned to him. These clauses
of the contract were reciprocal, and the performance of one
was the consideration for the performance of the other. When
Warren ceased to canvass for Stoddart's books, he had no right
to demand the books at the prices or the terms mentioned in
the contract.
But even conceding that the provision referred to remained
in force after Warren had declined, to go on under the contract,
it does not follow that, upon the refusal of Stoddart to give
Warren a credit of thirty days upon the books, the latter could
obtain a cancellation of the orders he had taken for Stoddart's
reprint and substitute orders for the Scotch edition, and charge
the expense of so doing to Stoddart. The claim that upon a
simple refusal of Stoddart to allow him a thirty days' credit
upon the books as he ordered them, he could go on and substitute other orders for another book and charge Stoddart with
the expense of substitution, amounting to $30,000, is, to say
the least, a remarkable one. The damage sustained by Warren
because he did not get the thirty days' credit which he thinks
he was entitled to is not to be measured in that way.
The rule is, that where a party is entitled to the benefit of
a contract, and can save himself from a loss arising from a
breach of it at a trifling expense or with reasonable exertions,
it is his duty to do it, and he can charge the delinquent with
such damages only as with reasonable endeavors and expense
he could not prevent. Wicker v. Iloppocic, 6 Wall. 94; Miller
v. 11M1ariners' Church, 7 Me. 51 ; Russell v. Butterfield, 21 Wend.

WARREN V. STODDART.

[Sup. Ct.

(N. Y.) 300; United States v. Burnham, 1 Mason, 57; Taylor
v. Read, 4 Paige (N. Y.); 561.
The course pursued by Warren was not necessary to his own
protection. He might either have paid Stoddart cash for the
books required to fill his orders, or have allowed Stoddart to
fill the orders and divide the. profits of the business between
them, on equitable terms. The law required him to take that
course by which he could secure himself with the least damage
to the defendant in error. Instead of this he unnecessarily
destroys a valuable interest of Stoddart in the business in
which they were jointly engaged, and then seeks to charge
him with the great expense and damage which he brought on
himself in so doing.
If Stoddart violated his contract with Warren in refusing
to fill his orders except for cash, the measure of Warren's
damages would be the interest for thirty days on the amount
of cash paid on his orders. As no proof was given to show
that Warren had ever paid cash for any books ordered by him,
he would only be entitled, in any view of the case, to nominal
damages.
But, as we have already said, Stoddart was not bound by
the contract to furnish the books on credit after Warren had
gone over to a rival publisher and refused to go on under his
contract. We think, therefore, that the court below was right
in saying to the jury that Warren was entitled to no damages
at all.
Judgment affirmed.

