Ex PARTE HOARD.

[Sup. Ct.

any claim of separate right, either to the possession or the
property. The whole ease depends on the question of title
between the Van Brunts on one side and the New York
defendants on the other. This controversy was not removable.
That of the other defendants is a mere adjunct of the principal
dispute. It cannot exist separately.
The case is, therefore, within the principle of Removal
Cases, 100 U. S. 457, decided after the order now under review was made, Blake v. MeKim, 103 id. 336, and Hyde v.
Ruble, 104 id. 407. In no just sense can it be said that the
pleadings present separate controversies, such as admit of
separate and distinct trials. If they do not, there could be no
removal under the second clause of the act of March 3, 1875,
c. 137, any more than under the first.
The order to remand is
Affirmed.

Ex

PARTE HOARD.

After the Circuit Court has denied a motion for an order remanding a cause to
the State court, whence it was removed, a mandamus will not lie compelling
it to make such order.

for a mandamus.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
PETITION

Mr. J. Iloldsworth (Jordon for the petitioners.
Mr. William J. Robertson, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad Company began a suit
in a State court of West Virginia to appropriate lands for the
use of its road. To this suit the present petitioners, with
others, were parties. The company, at a certain stage of the
proceedings, filed a petition under the act of March 3, 1875, c.
137, for the removal of the suit to the District Court of the
United States for the District of West Virginia, having Circuit
Court powers. After the petition was filed and security given

Oct. 1881.]

Ex PARTE HOARD.

according to the requirements of the law, a copy of the record of the suit in the State court was filed in the District
Court, and the case docketed there. This having been done,
the present petitioners moved the District Court to remand
the cause, and strike it from the docket, as to them and each
of them. The motion, having been argued and considered,
was denied. The petitioners now ask this court for a writ of
mandamus requiring the District Court to grant their motion.
Before the act of 1875, it was held, in Insurance Company
v. Comstoolc (16 Wall. 258), followed in Railroad Company
v. Wiswall (23 id. 507), that if a Circuit Court refused to take
jurisdiction of a suit which had been properly removed, the
remedy was by mandamus from this court "to compel the
Circuit Court to proceed to a final judgment or decree," and
not by writ of error or appeal. This was on the authority of
Exparte Bradstreet (7 Pet. 633), in which Mr. Chief Justice
Marshall delivered the opinion. No case can be found, however, in which a mandamus has been used to compel a court to
remand a cause after it has once refused a motion to that effect.
The distinction is obvious. An order remanding a cause is
not a final judgment or decree, from which ordinarily an appeal or a writ of error can be taken ; and in Ex parte Bradstreet it was stated, as the reason for allowing the mandamus,
"that every party has a right to the judgment of this court in
a suit brought by him in one of the inferior courts of the
United States, provided the value of the matter in dispute
exceeds the sum or value of two thousand dollars," now, of
course, five thousand. If the cause be retained, it may go to
final judgment or decree, and the reason assigned for the mandamus in case of dismissal does not exist. If it be improperly
retained and the objection presented on the record, the question may be brought here for review after final judgment, if
the amount involved is sufficient to give us jurisdiction. We so
held at this term in Railroad Company v. Koontz, 104 U. S.5.
It is of no importance that the value of the matter in dispute
may be less than $5,000. Jurisdiction has been given to the
Circuit Court to determine whether the cause is one that ought
to be remanded. The act of 1875 has given an appeal or a
writ of error to this court for the review of orders to remand,

580

LoOwi

Co. v. HIGGINS.

[Sup. Ct,

without regard to the amount involved. Babbitt v. Clark, 103
id. 606. The same remedy has not been given if the cause is
retained. It rests with Congress to determine whether a cause
shall be reviewed or not. If no power of review is given, the
judgment of the court having jurisdiction to decide is final.
Ex parte Ferry Company, 104 id. 519. It is an elementary
principle that a mandamus cannot be used to perform the
office of an appeal or a writ of error. Ex parte Loriny, 94
id, 418.
Without determining, therefore, whether the case was properly removed or not, the writ is
-Denied.

LOOM COMPANY V. HIGGTNS.
1. A specification in letters-patent is sufficiently clear and descriptive, when
expressed in terms intelligible to a person skilled in the art to which it
relates.
2. Evidence is admissible to show the meaning of terms used in letters-patent,
as well as the state of the art.
3. If an improvement of a well-known appendage to a machine is fully described

4.
5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

in a specification, it is not necessary to show the ordinary modes of attaching the appendage to the machine: the letters-patent are to be read as if
the machine and its appendage were present, or in the mind of the reader,
and lie a person skilled in the art.
Quere, whether the defence of insufficient description can be set up without
alleging an intent to deceive the public.
A new combination of known devices, producing a new and useful result (as
that of greatly increasing the effectiveness of a machine), is evidence of
invention, and may be the subject of letters-patent.
William Webster's improvement in looms for weaving pile fabrics, consists of such a new combination of known devices as to give to a loom the
capacity of weaving fifty yards of carpet a day, when before it could only
weave forty,-Held, that the improvement is patentable, and that letterspatent No. 130,061, dated Aug. 27, 1872, granted to him therefor are valid.
Of the two original inventors, the first will be entitled to letters-patent, unless
the other puts the invention into public vise more thanm two years before the
application for them.
An invention relating to machinery may be exhibited as well in a drawing as
in at model, so as to lay the foundation of i claim to priority, if sufficiently
plain to enable those skilled in the art to understand it.
Though the defence of prior invention ought to be set out in the answer, yet
if the omission to set it out is not objected to at the proper time in the court
below, it cannot be objected to here.

