FLANDERS V. SEELYE.

[Sup. Gt.

the article as warranted and the article as delivered, is all that
can be properly recovered as damages, unless in exceptional
cases of special damage. Whatever that difference, in the actual circumstances of the case, is shown to be, is the true rule
and measure of damages. Where the articles delivered are not
what the contract calls for, as in the case of defective machines,
the measure of the vendee's damages is what it would cost to
supply the deficiency, without regard to the contract price.
Benjamin v. Hillard, 23 How. 149, 167.
For these errors, the judgment of the Circuit Court will be
reversed, and the cause remanded with instructions to grant a.
new trial; and it is
So ordered.

FLANDERS

o. SEELYE.

Cotton seized under color of the act of March 1.2, 1863, c. 20, was by A., the deputy general agent of the treasury, consigned, subject to freight and charges,
to B., supervising special agent of the treasury at New Orleans. It was there
received by a firm who paid the charges on A.'s order, to hold "the amount
against the cotton." Shortly thereafter A. directed B. to deliver the cotton
to C., the claimant, upon his giving a bond of indemnity. C. gave the required bond, to save harmless the government, the seizing agent, and the officers and agents of the treasury, on account of the seizure and detention of
the cotton, and, on paying freight and charges, lie, by order of B., received
the cotton. Ile subsequently sued the firm for the amount so paid, and recovered judgment, which a member of the firm paid, and then brought this
action against A. for the money. Held, 1. That A., being neither a party nor
a privy to the suit of C. against the firm, and it not appearing that notice
of its pendency was ever given to him or any agent of the government, lie
is not bound by the judgment there rendered. 2. That the court below having in this action given a certificate of probable cause, as provided by sect.
089, Rev. Stat., it appears that A. could have successfully defended the suit
brought by C., and been protected by the bond given by the latter.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
The Solicitor-General for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. H. N. Ogden for the defendant in error.

Oct. 1881.]
Mi.

FLANDERS V. SEELYE.

JUSTICE BLATCHFORD delivered the opinion of the

court.
This suit was brought in the Sixth District Court for tha
Parish of Orleans, in the State of Louisiana, by Seelye, the
defendant in error, against Flanders, the plaintiff in error, in
November, 1871, and was removed by certiorari,before issue
joined, into the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana. In his petition filed in the State court,
Seelye claimed to recover from Flanders the sum of 66,233.61,
with legal interest from judicial demand. The grounds of the
claim, as set forth in the petition, were, that, in March, 1866,
178 bales of cotton were delivered at the pickery of the firm
of Seelye & Atwood, in New Orleans, of which firm Seelye
was a member, under the instructions of Flanders, who was at
that time acting supervisor and special agent of the Treasury
Department of the United States; that the firm received from
Flanders, at the same time, a written order to pay the charges
on the cotton, amounting to $5,907.45; that the firm, in obedience to those instructions, received the cotton and paid the
charges ; that, in April, 1866, the firm received an order from
one Burbridge, supervisor and special agent of the Treasury
Department of the United States, directing them to deliver
said cotton to one Harrison, but to retain the charges and expenses on said cotton ; that, in obedience to said order, the
firm delivered the cotton to Harrison, and received from him
the amotint of charges originally paid by them, and their own
charges for storage of the cotton, being in all $6,063.81; that
the amount was paid by Harrison under protest, and he subsequently sued Seelye and another person, as composing the
firm, and recovered a judgment against them in the Circuit
Court of the United States, for $4,661.45, with interest from
June, 1866, to July, 1871, and costs, making in all $5,891.44;
that that sum was paid by Seelye to Harrison in satisfaction
of that judgment ; that he also paid, as costs of court in that
suit, $92, and for counsel fees in defending the suit $250 ; and
that these sums, with the amount of the judgment, make the
$6,233.61. The petition alleges that all that Seelye so did in
the premises, and all that he was so finally compelled to pay,
was the direct result of the written orders received by the firm

FLANDERS V. SEELYE.

[Sup. Ct.

from Flanders, and claims that Flanders is bound to reimburse
to him the entire amount so paid, either in direct obedience to
-his orders or as the necessary result of that obedience. In
January, 1872, Flanders filed exceptions in the Circuit Court
to the petition, which were overruled by the court in April,
1872. These exceptions raised the questions that Seelye had
no right of action alone, and that the court had no jurisdiction.
After the overruling of these exceptions, Flanders filed a pleading combining exceptions with an answer. The exceptions
related to the defences of prescription and want of jurisdiction.
The answer set up that when Seelye received the cotton from
Flanders and paid the charges, he knew that Flanders had
taken the cotton in his said official capacity acting under the
act of Congress of March 12, 1863, c. 20 (12 Stat. 820) ; that
the charges directed by Flanders to be paid were a legal charge
on the cotton under the provisions of said act ; that they were
refunded by Harrison to the firm as an admitted claim; that
Harrison then brought the said suit to recover back the amount
he had so allowed and paid ; that the defendants in said suit
set up in their answer therein that they received the cotton
from Flanders, acting as such special agent, and paid by his
orders the charges thereon, and the same were lawful charges
thereon, and were acquiesced in by Harrison and reimbursed
to them ; that after judgnment in the suit the defendants in it
sued out a writ of error to this court, which writ they failed
to prosecute, and it was, therefore, dismissed by this court in
December, 1870 ; that in July, 1871, they voluntarily paid the
judgment; that the defence set up in the suit was, if founded
in fact, a good and valid one, and their neglect to prosecute it
cannot be allowed to operate to the prejudmce of Flanders ;that
the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction in the suit; that Seelye
lost all recourse against Flanders, if any he ever had, by reason of his failure to plead to the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court in the suit, and because of his failure to prosecute said
writ of error; and that Flanders is not responsible for the costs
incurred by Seelye in the suit, or for his counsel fees therein.
The answer concluded with these words " And for all such
matters and things in plaintiff's petition contained as are not
herein replied to, respondent for answer pleads the general

Oct. 1881.]

FLANDERS V. SEELYE.

issue, and prays to be hence dismissed with costs." The suit
was tried by a jury in the Circuit Court in April, 1873.' On
the 19th of March, 1874, the court set aside the verdict and
granted a new trial. On the 27th of March, 1874, an exception was filed, alleging, as a peremptory exception to the petition and the action, that the allegations in the petition, if true,
as pleaded, are insufficient in law to entitle the plaintiff to any
recovery against the defendant, "for the same do not disclose
any cause of action in behalf of said plaintiff against said defendant." The suit remained in this condition for nearly five
years, when, in January, 1879, the defendant pleaded all applicable prescriptions as a peremptory exception. Then the
parties filed a written stipulation agreeing to waive the intervention of a jury, and submitting the cause to the court " upon
the issues of fact as well as of law. The findings and the judgient of the Circuit Court are embraced in one paper. It states
that the court, "having heard the evidence and the arguments
of counsel, overrules all the exceptions taken by defendant to
the plaintiff's petition." It then specially finds the facts, and
awards judgment to the plaintiff for 96,233.61, with interest
and costs. It also grants a certificate of probable cause for
the seizure of the cotton, and for all the doings of Flanders in
the premises, as deputy general agent of the Treasury Department of the United States, and directs that no execution shall
issue on the judgment. There is no bill of exceptions in the
record. As the findings are special, the review by this court
may extend to the determination of the sufficiency of the facts
found to support the judgment.
The following facts were found by the Circuit Court, only
those being stated here which are material in the view we take
of the ease, although some others were found: The 178 bales of
cotton while in the possession of Harrison were, under color
of the above-cited act, seized by an assistant special agent of
the Treasury Department of the United States. They were
shipped from Shreveport, consigned to one Burbridge, supervising special agent of the Treasury Department at New Orleans, subject to charges and freight amounting to q5,907.45.
Seelye's firm received the cotton from a steamboat and gave a
receipt for it, which stated that they held it subject to the
VOL. xv.

46

FLANDERS V. SEELYE.

[Sup. Ct.

order of the collector of the port of New Orleans. The firm
paid the amount of freight and charges to the steamboat, on
an order signed by Flanders, as deputy general agent, reading
thus: " Seelye & Atwood's press will pay the within charges
and hold the amount against the cotton." This was in March,
1866. On the 18th of April, 1866, Flanders, as such deputy
general agent of the Treasury Departient, issued an order to
Burbridge, as such supervising special agent, directing him to
release the cotton to Harrison, on his giving a bond in $25,000,
to save harmless the government of the United States for
seizure, detention, or damage. On the same day Harrison executed his bond in that amount, in which he bound himself to
save harmless the seizing agent, and all other agents and officers of the Treasury Department, and also the government of
the United States, on account of the seizure and detention of
the cotton and on account of any damages they might sustain
by reason of said seizure. On the next day Burbridge issued
an order, directing Seelye & Atwood to deliver the cotton to
Harrison, on his paying all proper and legitimate charges, including the charges for transportation to Shreveport. The
firm delivered the cotton to Harrison on the 23d of April, and
he then paid them the $5,907.45, claimed as charges on the
cotton, and they gave him a receipt for it, which stated that lie
reserved " all rights or claims not relinquished under order of
the treasury agent who released said cotton to him." Shortly
afterwards Harrison sued the firm in a court of the State to
recover back the amount so paid by him. The firm removed
the suit into the Circuit Court of the United States, and filed
their answer, averring that they received the cotton by order
of Flanders, special agent of the Treasury Department, and
by his order paid the charges on the same, which were remnibursed to them by Harrison on the delivery of the cotton, and
that the same were lawful charges on the cotton, acquiesced in
and paid by Harrison on the delivery of the cotton, and further
pleading a general denial. In February, 1868, a final judgment
was rendered in favor of Harrison against the firm for $4,661.45,
from which the firm sued out a writ of error to this court,
which was, in December, 1870, dismissed, with costs, for want
of prosecution. In July, 1871, Seelye paid, out of his indi-

Oct. 1881.]

FLANDERS

V. SEELYE.

vidual means, to Harrison, $5,891.44, in full satisfaction of said
judgment and costs. In defending the suit Seelye paid, from
his individual means, $92 costs and $250 counsel fees.
As grounds for reversing the judgment below, the counsel for
the plaintiff in error contends, in his brief, that there is nothing to show that Harrison could have regained the cotton except upon the very conditions which he accepted, namely, that
he would receive it at New Orleans and defray all charges
connected with its having been carried thither; that except
the redelivery of the cotton, the record shows nothing to defeat
the presumption, arising from the time and place of the seizure,
that the cotton was properly captured and might have been
held; that the judgment obtained by Harrison was res inter
alios, as against Flanders; that Seelyc cannot recover in this suit
without showing that he could not have successfully resisted
the suit by Harrison ; that the agreement of Harrison to hold
the United States harmless'on account of the seizure required
him to repay to the United States any money which they had
already paid upon that account, as well as any which they
might thereafter pay because of obligations then existing; that
the question in its present form is not affected by the fact that
Harrison paid Seelye without waiting for the United States to
pay Seelye and then demand repayment from Harrison ; that,
in point of right, Harrison, by paying Seelye, paid his own
debt; tthat his accepting from Burbridge an order for the
cotton, on paying all proper and legitimate charges, including
the charges for transportation to Shreveport, is a contemporaneous interpretation of what was meant by saving the United
States and their agents harmless; that, originally, Seelye &
Atwood might have recovered from the United States, or,
perhaps, from Flanders, for the freight and charges paid on the
order of Flanders, but the acceptance of payment from Harrison, who acted in the matter substantially as an agent of the
United States, ended the original obligation ; and that no subsequent transaction between Harrison and Seelye, whether voluntary or involuntary on the part of Seelye, could revive such
obligation, or impose any new duty in the premises on either
the United States or Flanders.
It is manifest that the judgment rendered against Flanders

FLANDERS V. SEELYE.

[Sup. Ct.

in the present suit is founded on the fact that Harrison recovered his judgment against the firm, and that Seelye paid to
Harrison the amount of that judgment, and also paid the expenses of defending the suit in which the judgment was recovered. The petition shows this, and so do the findings and
judgment. The amount claimed by Seelye in the petition and
the amount recovered by him is the exact amount of the Harrison judgment recovered July 13, 1871, and of the costs and
counsel fees paid by Seelye. Prior to the bringing of the suit
by Harrison, tile firm had been fully reimbursed by Harrison,
for the charges which they bad paid and incurred on the order
of Flanders. Although that judgment, and the payment by
Seelye of its amount and of the expenses attendant on the defence of the suit, are the sole ground of the claim made in the
present suit and the sole foundation of the judgment recovered
in it, yet Flanders was neither a party nor a privy to the suit
brought by Harrison, and it is not alleged in the petition nor
found as a fact by the Circuit Court, that Flanders, or the
government of the United States, or any officer or agent of
the government, had any notice of the bringing or pendency
of the suit brought by Harrison, or any opportunity to assume
or control or take part in its defence. The recovery in the
present suit is, by the operation of the certificate of probable
cause granted by the Circuit Court, under sect. 989 of the
Revised Statutes, made substantially a recovery against the
government, to be paid out of the treasury. All relationship
between Seelye and his firm on one side and the government
and its agents and officers on the other side, ceased entirely
when the firm was reimbursed by Harrison and the cotton was
delivered to Harrison. The firm heh the cotton, by authority
of Flanders, as security for the charges which they paid by his
order, and they held it as security also for their storage charges.
They parted with the cotton because all their claims against it
were reimbursed, and with the closing of that transaction their
agency and that of Seelye as representing the government, or
Flanders, in any capacity, in connection with the transaction,
entirely ceased. Neither the firm nor Seelye had any such representative capacity in defending the suit brought by Harrison.
There is not in the petition any allegation of any fact which

Oct. 1881.]

FLANDERS v. SEELYE.

tends to show that the government or Flanders'is bound by the
judgment in the suit brought by Harrison, nor is any such fact
stated in the findings made by the Circuit Court. The petition
merely alleges that all that Seelye did, and all that lie was
compelled to pay, was the direct result of the orders of Flanders, and that Flanders is bound to reimburse to hini the
amount so paid, either in direct obedience to his orders or as
the necessary result of that obedience. The payment of the
Harrison judgment was, however, in no proper sense the result
of any obedience to any order of Flanders. Not only is there
not in the special findings any finding of any facts which tend
to make the Harrison judgment of any binding or probative
force as against Flanders, as a party or a privy to it, but the
finding in regard to the Harrison bond is conclusive to show
that no judgment in favor of Harrison against Seelye & Atwood can be used to aid in establishing the present claim
against Flanders and the government, unless it appears affirimatively that they had notice of the Harrison suit and an opportunity to defend it. The answer of Flanders in the present
suit alleges that the charges which he directed Seelye & Atwood to pay were legal charges on the cotton under the act of
Congress referred to, and' that they were refunded to them by
Harrison, " as an admitted claim." It also alleges that Seelye
& Atwood, in their answer in the Harrison suit, averred that
the charges which they paid were lawful charges on the cotton,
and were acquiesced in by Harrison and reimbursed to them.
Proof of such admission of, and acquiescence in, the claim, by
Harrison, was, therefore, admissible, and was made by proving
that Harrison gave at the time the bond referred to. In view
of the provisions of that bond it is difficult to see why, as
against Flanders, Harrison is not debarred front saying that lie
(lid not admit and acquiesce in the lawfulness and propriety of
the charges which he paid to Seelye & Atwood. His bond was
given to save harmless the government and the agents of the
Treasury Department, "on account of the seizure and detention
of said cotton, and on account of any damages they might sustain by reason of said seizure."
The charges reimbursed to
Seelye & Atwood by Harrison grew directly out of the seizure
and detention of the cotton, and any amount which might be

FLANDERS V. SEELYE.

[Sup. Ct.

paid on the recovery in the present suit would be covered by
the terms of the bond. The bond covers not merely damages
for taking and keeping the cotton, but the agreement is to hold
the government and Flanders harmless on account of the seizre and detention. This covers the expenses attending the
removal and keeping of the cotton. The act of 1863 expressly
makes the expenses of transporting and disposing of captured
property a charge upon its proceeds even where a claimant establishes a right to such proceeds. In any event, therefore,
before the recovery by Harrison against Seelye & Atwood can
be made the foundation of a cause of action or a recovery by
Seelye against Flanders, it must appear that he had a fair opportunity to set up as against such recovery by Harrison the
said matters of defence to his claim. Proving in the present
suit the giving of the bond by Harrison was proving that Flanders had a good defence to the suit brought by Harrison against
Seelye. Such proof, having been given, must be regarded as
having been properly given, under the answer. It was proof
of the admission by Harrison of the claim of Seelye & Atwood,
as is alleged in the answer. It does not appear that Flanders
had any notice of the Harrison suit, or any opportunity to
make therein the defence referred to. It was necessary that
it should so appear, the existence of such defence being established. It is not for Flanders to show that he bad no notice,
by proving a negative.
Our attention has been called to the provisions of articles
378, 379, 382, and 388 of the Code of Practice of Louisiana, as
having a bearing on this case. They are as follows: " Art.
378. The obligation which one contracts to defend another in
some action which may be instituted against him is termed
warranty. The one who has contracted this obligation is called
Art. 379. . . . Personal warranty is that
the warrantor."
which takes place in personal actions ; it arises from the obligation which one has contracted to pay the whole or a part of
a debt, due by another to a third person." " Art. 382. The
defendant wishing to call one in warranty, may, in his answer,
pray the court to decree against his warrantor the same judgment which may be rendered against him on the principal
action ; such prayer will be considered as a demand in war''

Oct. 1881.]

FLANDERS V. SEELYr,

ranty." "Art. 888. The defendant, though he has not called
his warrantor to defend the suit brought against him, does not
lose on that account his action in warranty, unless the warrantor prove that he had means for defending the action, which
were not used owing to the defendant having failed to call him
in warranty, or having neglected to apprise him of the suit having been brought." In Sterling v. Fusilier(7 Mart. (La.) 442),
the Supreme Court of Louisiana, in reference to provisions
of the Civil Code like those just cited, says that the neglect
of a person sued in failing to call in his warrantor to defend
the suit, has no other effect, in a suit afterwards brought by
such person against his warrantor, than to cause the warranty
to cease, on proof, in the latter suit, that the warrantor had
sufficient grounds or means of defence to have obtained a judgment in his favor, of which he could not avail himself for want
of having been called on ; and that that species of defence must
be pleaded and proved. Assuming that Flanders was still a
warrantor to Seelye & Atwood when the suit by Harrison
against that firm was brought, we are of opinion, for the reasons before stated, that it appears in this case that Flanders
had a sufficient defence to have obtained a judgment in his
favor if he had been called in warranty in the Harrison suit,
or been notified of the bringing of that suit, and that he could
not avail himself of that defence in the Harrison suit, for the
reason that he was not called in warranty or notified of the
bringing of that suit. That defence is not only proved in this
suit, but is sufficiently pleaded, as is before shown. There is
nothing in article 388 of the code which requires Flanders to
prove anything more than lie has proved in this suit. The existence of the defence being proved, the presumption is that it
would have been proved and availed of, in the Harrison suit,
by Flanders, if he had been called in warranty or been notified
of the bringing of the suit, and it is then for the plaintiff in
this suit to rebut such presumption, which has not been done.
Judgment reversed, and cause remanded with directions to
award a new trial.
Mu.

JUSTICE FIELD,

JUSTICE WooDs

MR.

dissented.

JUSTICE

BRADLEY,

and MR.

