Oct. 1881.]

MARCIHAND V. FItELLSEN.

MARCHAND V. FRELLSEN.
1. Where an order directing the seizure and sale of lands in Louisiana, whereon
the vendor retained his lien and privilege, has been made in a proceeding to
enforce the payment of an instalnment of the purchase-money, and an appeal
is taken, the surety on the bond is liable for the claim sued on.
2. The pendency of proceedings on appeal does not render void an order of
another court of competent jurisdiction for the seizure and sale of the lands
to satisfy a subsequent instalment, nor does the payment of the first bond
satisfy that given on appeal from the second order.
3. The application of the proceeds of the sale under the first order to satisfy,
pursuant to its requirements, the several instalnents pro rata, does not discharge tire surety from the payment of the unpaid balance, for which lie
was otherwise liable.

ERoR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
On Dec. 31, 1863, Frellsen sold to Fairex a plantation in
St. Charles Parish, in the State of Louisiana, for the consideration of $133,000, of which Fairex paid $3,000 in cash,
and the residue he agreed to pay in annual instalments,
bearing interest and falling due respectively on the first
day of May in every year for eleven years. He executed
and delivered to Frellsen his promissory notes for the principal of these deferred payments, and also notes for the interest to accrue thereon. In the authentic act by which Frellsen
conveyed the property to Fairex be reserved his vendor's
privilege.
On May 19, 1869, Frellsen applied to the Seventh District
Court of the Parish of Orleans for an order of seizure and sale,
to be directed against the plantation, to satisfy the two notes
given for the instalment of the purchase-money which fell due
on May 1, 1869,- one for $11,000 principal money, and the
other for $5,390 interest. The writ as prayed for was issued,
but its execution was suspended by an appeal taken by Fairex
to the Supreme Court. The bond for the appeal was in the
penalty of $26,000, and Marchand was the surety. The condition of the bond was as follows: "Now the condition of the
above obligation is such that the above-bound Daniel Fairex
shall prosecute this appeal and shall satisfy whatever judgment

MARCHAND V. FRELLSEN.

[Sup. Ct.

may be rendered against him, or that the same shall be satisfied
by the proceeds of the sale of his estate, real or personal, if lie
be cast in the appeal ; otherwise that the said Marchand, surety,
shall be liable in his place." The Supreme Court affirmed the
order of the Seventh District Court directing the writ of seizure
and sale to issue, and gave judgment against Fairex for ten
per cent on the amount of the two notes which were the basis
of the writ of seizure and sale, on account of his frivolous
appeal.
While the appeal was pending, the two notes, one for
$11,000, principal, and the other for $4,620, interest, maturing
May 1, 1870, became due and were not paid. Thereupon, to
satisfy them, Frellsen, on May 18, 1870, obtained from the
Fifth District Court for the Parish of Orleans, on his petition,
an order of seizure and sale directed against the plantation.
On May 26, 1870, Fairex appealed to the Supreme Court from
this order, and gave bond with Marchand, as surety, for the
appeal in the penalty of $23,000. It was conditioned precisely
as that on the former appeal.
Fairex died Aug. 26, 1871, and the administratrix of his
estate was made party to the appeal in the Supreme Court.
On Jan. 19, 1874, the Supreme Court made the following
decree upon this appeal: " The court, therefore, orders that the
plaintiff and appellee recover from the defendant five hundred
dollars as damages for a frivolous appeal, and that the appeal
be dismissed at the costs of the appellant."
While the appeal from the Fifth District'Court was pending
in the Supreme Court, that court having affirmed the order of
seizure and sale made by the Seventh District Court, Frellsen,
on Nov. 28, 1871, applied to the last-named court for an
alias order of seizure and sale, to satisfy the two notes which
matured May 1, 1869, the amount due on which was $1.6,390.
The court directed the writ to issue, and by virtue of it the
plantation was sold by the sheriff to Frellsen, the original
vendor, for $40,000. This sun, by order of the court, was
applied pro rata on all the notes for the purchase-money of
the plantation remaining unpaid. After the notes which were
the basis of the proceedings in the Fifth District Court were
thus credited, there remained due thereon $8,595, and after

Oct. 1881.]

MARCHAND

V. FRELLSEN.

the credit was applied to the notes which were proceeded on
in the Seventh District Court, there remained due thereon
$13,342.
On May 21, 1872, a rule was taken on Marchand in the
Seventh District Court to hold him liable upon the bond for
the appeal taken from that court. Judgment was demanded
against him on the bond for the balance, $13,342, due on the
notes which had been proceeded on in that court; and for
$1,639, the judgment for damages for the frivolous appeal,
rendered by the Supreme Court. Upon the trial of this rule
the Seventh District Court entered judgment against Marchand
for $1,639, the damages for the frivolous appeal, and for interest and costs, amounting to $1,900, and dismissed the rule as
to the residue of Frellsen's demand. Marchand paid, Dec. 3,
1873, the sun of $1,900, which he was condemned to pay, and
it was accepted by Frellsen in full satisfaction of the judgment
rendered as aforesaid.
After all these proceedings, on May 8, 1876, a rule in the
Fifth District Court was taken against Marchand by Frellsen,
who alleged that on the demand upon which he had obtained
the order for seizure and sale in that court, a balance of
$8,595 was due, with interest at the rate of eight per cent
per annum from Feb. 3, 1872; that the property, subject to
executory judgment, had been sold pursuant to an order and
judgment of the Seventh District Court; that Fairex had
no other property which could be found by the sheriff to
satisfy the demand; and that he was dead and his estate insolvent. Marchand was required to show cause why he should
not be condemned, by reason of his suretyship on the bond
for the appeal from the order of seizure and sale made by
that court, to pay that balance with interest, and $500, the
damages adjudged for a frivolous appeal. This suit was removed by Marchand to the Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of Louisiana, where the rule was made absolute, and judgment rendered against him for $8,595, with
interest thereon, and also for the sum of $500, the abovementioned damages.
This writ of error is prosecuted by Marchand to review that
judgment.

426

MARCHAND V. FRELLSEN.

[Sup. Ct.

The cause was argued by Mr. Charles W. Hornor for the
plaintiff in error, and by 3Mr. Philip Phillips and Mr. W.
-HallettPhillips for the defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE WOODS, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The first contention of the plaintiff in error is that the court
below erred in the construction which it gave to the appealbond executed by him for the appeal taken from the order
of the Fifth District Court. He insists that the obligation
which he thereby assumed was to pay for the use and detention
of the property pending the appeal, just damages for delay,
costs of suit, and costs and interest on the appeal, and that he
did not bind himself to pay the debt to satisfy which the writ
of seizure and sale had been ordered.

We find no warrant for this construction of the bond in the

decisions of the Supreme Court of Louisiana, which interpret
the articles of the code by virtue of which the bond was

exacted.
Bonds for appeal from an order directing a writ of seizure
and sale are given by virtue of the provisions of articles 575
and 579 of the Louisiana Code of Practice. Alley v. Hawthorn,
1 La. Ann. 122; Cottnan v. Ratliff, 20 id. 179; State, ex rel.
Bankhead, v. Judge of the Fourth District Court, 22 id. 116.
These articles are as follows: "ART. 575. If the appeal has been taken within ten days, not
including Sundays, after the judgment has been notified to the
party cast in the suit, when such notice is required by law to be

given, it shall stay execution and all other proceedings until definitive judgment be rendered on the appeal: Provided,the appellant
gives his obligation with good and solvent security, residing within
the jurisdiction of the court, in favor of the clerk of the court
rendering the judgment, for a sum exceeding by one-half the
amount for which the judgment was given, if the same be for a specific sum, as security for the payment of the amount of such judgment, in case the same is affirmed by the court to which the ap~peal
is taken ...
"AnxT. 579. In the appeal-bond it must be set forth in substance
that it is given as security that the appellant shall prosecute his ap-

Oct. 1881.]

MARCHAND

V. FRELLSEN.

peal, and that he shall satisfy whatever judgment may be rendered
against him, or that the same shall be satisfied by the proceeds of
the sale of his estate, real or personal, if he be cast in his appeal,
otherwise, that the surety shall be liable in his place."
It is evident from an inspection of the bond, which is the
basis of this suit, that it was given under these articles.
The authentic act whereby Frellsen conveyed the plantation
to Fairex, and the. latter agreed that the plantation should be
subject to the vendor's lien for the payment of the notes given
for the purchase-money, imported a confession of judgment
in favor of Frellsen by Fairex for the amount of said notes
respectively as they severally fell due.
When, therefore,
Fairex, the mortgagor, appealed from an order of the court
directing a writ of seizure and sale to satisfy such of the notes
as were then due and unpaid, he suspended the execution of
a judgment against him, and the surety on the appeal-bond
became bound for the debt. That such is the effect of the
bond for appeal in cases of this class has been repeatedly
decided by the Supreme Court of Louisiana.
In Whann v. Irwin (27 La. Ann. 706), that court said:
"It is contended that the proceeding against the surety was
premature, as only the property mortgaged had been sold under
the writ, and no execution had been issued against the judgment debtor, and returned nulla bona. 'If this proposition be
correct, to require a bond for an appeal from an order of seizure and sale is an idle form.
"Article 575 of the Code of Practice, and article 37 of the
Revised Statutes of 1871, justify the mode of proceeding in
this case. The only execution which it was possible for the
judgment creditor to cause to be issued, was issued and returned not satisfied. The requirements of the law were substantially complied with. The surety knew that under the
executory process no other property could be sold except that
which was included in the mortgage, and when he stopped
that by signing the appeal-bond, he obligated himself to pay
the amount of the judgment for which the writ had issued, if
affirmed on appeal.
" By reason of the nature of the judgment no execution
could be taken out, after the return of the order of seizure and

MARCHAND

V. FRELLSEN.

[Sup. Ct.

sale, which could reach the property of the debtor, and, therefore, the plaintiff had the right to proceed against the surety
on the appeal-bond. A different interpretation of the law
would make of judicial suretyship a mere farce, the commencement rather than the end of litigation."
The rule thus laid down was reaffirmed in the case of
Landry v. Vietor, 30 La. Ann., Part 2, 1041.
So in Thompson v. Grow, not reported, it was held that the
surety on a bond given for a suspensive appeal from an order
of seizure and sale is liable for the amount of the mortgage
claim sued on. See Louque's Digest, title Appeal, II. c. 4,
p. 39. We have been able to find no conflicting decisions.
This interpretatipn of the local law and of the construction
of bonds executed pursuant to its provisions is binding on this
court, and leaves no ground for the contention now under consideration to stand on.
It is next insisted by the plaintiff in error that all the proceedings in the Fifth District Court, in which the bond sued on
in this case was given, were absolutely void, and, therefore,
that the bond was also void.
The reason for this contention is stated to be that Frellsen
having begun his proceedings for seizure and sale in the Seventh
District Court on the notes which matured May 1, 1869, the
institution of a similar' proceeding on other notes of the same
series, subsequently falling due, in the Fifth District Court, was
an illegal and oppressive act. It is asserted that " all the proceedings in the Seventh District Court were regular and legal,
whilst all those in the Fifth District Court were null and void
on account of the error produced in the minds of the judges of
the Supreme Court and the Fifth District Court by the action
of Frellsen in withholding from them knowledge of the pendency of the suit in the Seventh District Court."
It is not disputed that the subject-matter of the proceedings
in the Fifth District Court was within its jurisdiction, and that
the parties were before it. Its proceedings, therefore, however
erroneous, cannot be null and void. In passing upon this
point it is only necessary to apply the rule laid down by this
court as an axiom of the law, that the validity of a judgment
cannot be questioned collaterally for errors which do not affect

Oct. 1881.]

MARCHAND

V. FRELLSEN.

Cooper v.
the jurisdiction of the court which rendered it.
Reynolds, 10 Wall. 308.
The complaint seems to be this: that in the proceeding in
the Fifth District Court, Frellsen, on whose appeal-bond Marchand became surety, had a good defence against the order or
judgment rendered in that case, if he had only taken the trouble
to mliake it. But the fact that he did not make it, and that
his antagonist did not make it for him, does not render the
judgment void, the court having unquestioned jurisdiction to
make orders for seizure and sale, and the mortgagor being
present in court to resist it.
It is further insisted that the payment by Marchand of the
judgment for $1,900, rendered against him by the Seventh
District Court upon the appeal-bond given for the appeal from
the order of that court, is also a satisfaction of any claim on
the appeal-bond signed by him in the Fifth District Court for
the appeal from the order of that court allowing the writ of
seizure and sale for the satisfaction of other notes of Fairex.
If, as decided by the Supreme Court of Louisiana, the appealbond in such cases is a security for the payment of the notes
on which the application for the order of seizure and sale is
based, it is plain that the satisfaction of a bond for an appeal
on one note cannot be a satisfaction of another bond for another appeal on a different note. Each note is a separate
cause of action, and the satisfaction of one does not necessarily
imply the satisfaction of another.
Lastly, article 3061 of the code of 1870 is relied on for a
reversal of the judgment below.
That article declares, " The security is discharged when, by
the act of the creditor, the subrogation to his rights, mortgages, and privileges can no longer be operated in favor of
the surety."
The defence founded on this article is thus set forth in the
answer filed by Marchand to the rule taken on him in the
Fifth District Court: " Said plaintiff has by his acts made it
impossible and placed it beyond the power of respondent to
satisfy the alleged order of seizure and sale herein, or the
alleged decree on appeal therefrom ; that said plaintiff, without
respondent's consent, has, by his said acts, impaired respon-

430

[Sup. Ct.

DOWELL V. MITCHELL.

dent's rights to subrogation, and respondent is thereby released
from any liability, if any existed, which is denied."
It is sufficient to say in reply to this contention, that the
mortgage to which Marchand claims the right of subrogation
has been enforced, and the proceeds of the mortgaged property
applied pro rata to the satisfaction of the claim for which lie
is surety. If he had been actually subrogated to the rights of
Frellsen, under the mortgage, he could have secured nothing
He has not been injured. He has lost nothing by
more.
the foreclosure of the mortgage. It has resulted to his advantage in the reduction of the debt for which he is surety,
and is no ground for his discharge from the unpaid balance.
Judgment affirmed.

DOWELL V. MITCHELL.
MITCHELL v.

DOWELL.

Where a note for the debt of a firm was made by its surviving member, who,
to secure its payment, executed a mortgage on real estate, which was the
individual property of his deceased partners,- Held, that on the ownership
being shown on the hearing of the foreclosure suit brought against him and
their heirs the bill should be dismissed without prejudice, the ground of equitable relief not having been made out, and the complainant having a complete
remedy at law to enforce the payment of the note.

APPEALS from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Eastern District of Arkansas.

These are cross-appeals from the same decree. The original bill was filed Aug. 22, 1877, by John H. Dowell and J-1.
M. Mandeville, late partners under the name of J. H. Dowell
& Co., against Askew, as administrator of the estate of Claiborne S. Barron, deceased, Margaret Barron, his widow, his
three children, and William H. Brazeil.

Askew

resigned

pending the suit, and C. E. Mitchell, the administrator de bonis
non, was made a party defendant in his stead.
It appears from the evidence that the complainants were
cotton-factors and commission-merchants in St. Louis, and in
that capacity acted for Barron and Brazell, who, Oct. 4, 1873,

