Oct. 1881.]

UNITED) STATES

v. TEMPLE.

infringed by defendants, is sufficient to establish its utility,
at least as against them. Whitney v. Mowry, 4 Fish. Pat.
Rep. 207.
Our conclusion is that the complainants have a valid patent
which the defendants have infringed. The decree of the Circuit Court dismissing their bill must, therefore, be reversed, and
the cause remanded for further proceedings in conformity with
this opinion ; and it is
So ordered.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY did not sit in this

case, nor take any

part in deciding it.

UNITED STATES

v. TEMPLE.

An officer of the navy, while engaged in public business, travelled by land and sea
under orders, the travel by sea not being in a public vessel of the United
States. Held, that under the act of June 30, 1876, c. 159 (19 Stat. 65), be is
entitled to mileage for the whole distance travelled.

from the Court of Claims.
This was an action brought in the Court of Claims by
Temple, a commodore in the United States navy, to recover
mileage for travel under orders.
The controversy arises upon the construction of an act of
Congress. The history of our legislation on the subject of
mileage to officers of the navy is as follows: The act of March
3, 1835, c. 27 (4 Stat. 756), after giving certain pay, &c., to
officers of the navy, declares in the second section that they
shall be entitled to no other compensation, but with an exception, thus stated: " Except for travelling expenses while under
orders, for which ten cents per mile shall be allowed."
This provision was abrogated by a clause in the act of June
16, 1874, c. 285 (18 Stat., pt. 3, p. 72), which is as follows: " That only actual travelling expenses shall be allowed
to any person holding employment or appointment under the
United States, and all allowances for mileages and transportation in excess of the amount actually paid are hereby declared
illegal."
APPEAL

VOL. XV.

7

UNITED

STATES

v.

TEMPLE.

[Sup. Ct.

On June 30, 1876, however, mileage was restored to officers
of the navy by the act of that date, c. 159 (19 Stat. 65),
which declares that so much of the act of June 16, 1874, "as
provides that only actual travelling expenses shall be allowed
to any person holding employment or appointment under the
United States, while engaged in public business, as is applicable to officers of the navy so engaged, is hereby repealed; and
the sum of eight cents per mile shall be allowed such officers
so engaged, in lieu of their actual expenses."
The travel for which Commodore Temple claims mileage
was performed in 1878.
It appears by the findings of the Court of Claims that
while engaged in public business he travelled under orders
from Washington City, via New York City and Rio de Janeiro,
to Montevideo, in South America, and thence back to Washington City, via Rio de Janeiro, Liverpool, and New York.
The voyages were performed in vessels not the property of the
United States. The whole distance travelled was 16,660 miles.
Ile applied to the accounting -officers of the treasury for payment of mileage at the rate of eight cents per mile on the whole
distance travelled by him. His demand was refused. But
lie was allowed eight cents per mile for the distance between
the city of Washington and New York, going and returning.
For all travel by sea the accounting officers would allow him
only his actual expenses.
The Court of Claims allowed him mileage at the rate of
eight cents per mile for the entire distance travelled by him.
Judgment was rendered in his favor therefor, after deducting
the money actually paid him. The United States appealed.
The Solicitor-General for the United States.
Mr. Enoch Totten and Mr. James Lowndes for the appellee.
MR. JUSTICE WOODS, after stating the facts, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The statute and the finding of the Court of Claims leave
little room for controversy. The law as it stood when the
travel was performed was explicit, and is not open to construetion. We find in it no warrant for the distinction made by
the accounting officers of the treasury between travel by sea

Oct. 1881.]

UNITED STATES v. TEMPLE.

and travel on land within the United States, performed by an
officer of the navy while engaged on public business. To hold
that for one class of travel he should have eight cents per mile,
and for the other his actual expenses, is to make the law and
not to construe it. When this travel was performed there was
not a line on the statute-book of the United States which
made any provision whatever, under any circumstances, for
allowing officers of the navy, when engaged on the public
business, their actual expenses of travel. The only law ever
enacted which made such provision had been expressly repealed by the act on which the appellee based his claim for
mileage. This act declared him entitled, without condition or
limitation, to mileage at the rate of eight cents per mile, and
is the only law upon the subject.
Our duty is to read the statute according to the natural and
obvious import of the language, without resorting to subtle

and forced construction for the purpose of either limiting or
extending its operation.
Waller v. Harris, 20 Wend. (N. Y.)
561; Pott v. Arthur, 104 U. S. 735. When the language is
plain, we have no right to insert words and phrases, so as to
incorporate in the statute a new and distinct provision.
The attempt to justify the decision of the accounting officers
o the treasury is based on an alleged practice in conformity
therewith, which, it is said, grew up in the Navy Department
under the act of 1835. The practice, if such there was, finds
no higher warrant or sanction in the act of 1835 than in the
act of 1876. But even if it could have any influence in settling the meaning of an act passed forty-one years afterwards,
under changed circumstances and conditions, we find no reference to it in either the findings or the opinion of the Court of
Claims, and we cannot assume that it ever existed.
The law on which the appellee bases his case is plain and
unambiguous. We must give it its natural and obvious meaning, and thus interpreted it leaves the appellant no ground to
stand on.
Judgment affirmed.

