INSURANCE Co. v. FOLEY.

[Sup.

CL'.

a fence on the side of it, and otherwise expending money
on it.
In our opinion, though strongly persuasive of the proposition
that the city had assumed charge of the place, the evidence
was not necessarily conclusive. The inference was one of fact
and not of law, and was to be made, if at all, by the jury,
under such proper instructions on the matter as the court
should give, and not by the court alone. It was a mixed question of law and fact, proper for the jury, aided by the court.
For this error the judgment of the Circuit Court will be
reversed, and the case remanded with instructions to set aside
the verdict and grant a new trial ; and it is
So ordered.

INSURANCE

COMPANY V. FOLEY.

1. When sued upon a life policy, the company set up that in applying for it the
insured did not make true answers to questions touching his habits. The
evidence in regard to them was conflicting. The court refused to charge
the jury that when "witnesses testify, from their own knowledge of the
party and his habits, that lie was not of temperate habits, their testimony
is entitled to greater consideration by a jury than witnesses who testify
otherwise, because they have not seen or known of such habits as are testified to by those who declare that lie was not a person of temperate riabits."
Held, that the refusal was proper.
2. If the habits of the insured in the usual, ordinary, and every-day routine of
his life were temperate, his representations that lie was and always had
been a man of temperate habits were not untrue, within the meaning of the
policy, although lie may have had rn attack of delirium treniens from an
exceptional over-indulgence.

EIROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of South Carolina.
In January, 1872, Foley obtained from the Knickerbocker
Life Insurance Company of the city of New York a policy of
insurance for $5,000, on the life of one Badenhop, his debtor
to that amount. The premium required at the time and the
stipulated annual premiums were paid. The profits arising
upon them entitled the assured, in May, 1878, to a further
insurance on the life of his debtor, to the amount of $36.03;

Oct. 1881.]

INSURANCE

Co. v. FOLEY.

and in June, 1874, to the amount of 39.36; and policies for
these sums were issued to him.
Badenhop died in January, 1875; but the assured, being
ignorant of the fact, paid the next annual premium. The present action, to recover the amount of thh policies and of the premium overpaid, with interest, was commenced in a court of the
State, and, upon application of the company, removed to the
Circuit Court of the United States. The complaint alleges
the issue of the policies, the interest in them of the plaintiff, the
death of Badenhop, the proof thereof furnished to the company,
the fulfilment by the plaintiff and the deceased of "all the
conditions " of the policies, the amount due, and its non-payment. It also alleges the payment of the annual premium
after the death of the insured. A copy of the policies is
annexed to the complaint. The first policy declares that it is
issued upon the express condition that the application on file
in the office of the company is an express warranty of the truth
of the answers and statements contained in it, and that, if they
are in any respect untrue, the policy is to be void and of no
effect to any one. The additional policies declare that they
are subject to the same conditions as the first.
In its answer the company sets up, among other things, as a
defence, that the plaintiff and the insured did not make true
and correct answers and statements to certain questions contained in the application for the first policy, in this, that to
the questions, "Is the party of temperate habits? Has he
always been so ?" the answers given were " Yes,"- when, in
fact, he was a man of intemperate habits, thus concealing by
the answer his true habits, and making a false statement concerning them; whereby the policy became void.
On the point thus raised, whether the answers given as to
the habits of the insured were true or false, the testimony
offered was conflicting. On the part of the company, one witness testified that in 1871 and in the early part of 1872 he
was the family physician of Badenhop ; that at that time
Badenhop was drinking hard ; that during that year he had
attended him for delirium tremens, and once or twice for indisposition, produced, "as he thought," from the excessive use of
intoxicating drink ; and that he " regarded " him as a. man of

INSURANCE

Co.

ii. FOLEY.

I[Sul). Ct.

intemperate habits. But, on his cross-examination, lie admitted that he did not know Badenhop intimately, had no relations
with him other than professional, and saw hini only when he
attended him professionally, or met him occasionally in the
street. Two other witnesses testified for the company, - one,
that he was intimate with Badenhop ; the other, that he had
known him for several years, and that he was a very intemperate man; that they had frequently seen him under the
influence of liquor; but neither of them stated when his
acquaintance commenced, whether before or after the policy
was issued.
On the part of the plaintiff several witnesses were called,
who had known Badenhop intimately for many years, their
acquaintance with him commencing before the policy was
issued and continuing afterwards, and one of whom had been
his partner in 1869 and 1870; and they all testified unqualifiedly to his being a man of temperate habits.
The defendant requested the court, amnong other things, to
instruct the jury, "That where, in a question whether the
party assured is one of temperate habits at the time when lie
seeks to be insured, and has always been so, witnesses testify,
from their own knowledge of the party and his habits, that lie
was, not of temperate habits, their testimony is entitled to
greater consideration by a jury than witnesses who testify
otherwise, because they have not seen or known of such habits
as are testified to by those who declare that lie was not a person of temperate habits."
This instruction the court refused to give, and an exception
was taken. The court, among other things, instructed the
jury that all the representations in the application for the
policy of insurance are warranties that such representations
are true, and that if they find from the evidence that the habits of the insured, at the time of, or at any time prior to the(
application, were not temperate, then the answers made by
him to the questions, " Are you a man of temperate habits?"
"Have you always been so?" were untrue, and the policy is
void; but that if they find that his habits in the usual, ordinary, and every-day routine of his life were tempeirate, then
such representations were not untrue within the meaning of

Oct. 1881.]

INSURANCE

Co. v. FoiLEy.

the policy, although they may find that he had an attack of
delirium tremens resulting from an exceptional indulgence in
drink prior to the issue of the policy ; and that the burden of
proof is upon the defendant to show the breach of any warranty in the policy. To the charge the defendant excepted.
The jury found for the plaintiff, and, upon the verdict, judgment was entered ; to review which the case is brought to this
court on a writ of error.
Mr. A. C. Magrath for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. J. P. K. Bryan for the defendant in error.
A\IR. JUSTICE FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The instruction requested by the defendant, treating it as
applicable to the case at bar, and not as containing a mere
abstract proposition of law, is open to several objections.
In the first place, it assumes that there was a difference in
the sources of knowledge of the witnesses in the case ; which
was not the fact. All of them testified from their observation
of the conduct of the deceased; and the jury would properly
give weight to the testimony, not according to the positiveness
of the averments of the witnesses as to their knowledge, but,
other considerations being equal, according to their opportunities of observation of the deceased's conduct, and the manner
in which those opportunities had been improved. No witness
testified, from his own knowledge, that the deceased was of
intemperate habits at the time he applied for the insurance,
and that he had always been so. No instruction should be
given which thus assumes, as a matter of fact, that which is
not conceded or established by uncontradicted proof. Ne'w
Jersey Mutual Life Insurance 06. v. Baker, 94 U. S. 610.
In the second place, the instruction requested does not present the law with entire accuracy. Whether the testimony of
the persons alleging knowledge is entitled to greater consideration than that of persons asserting opinions, mainly depends
upon the subjects with respect to which the testimony is given.
If the subject be, as in this case, the habits of a party, affirmations of knowledge will be weighed with reference to the
opportunities of the witnesses to obtain the knowledge they
voL. xv.

23

INSURANCE

Co. v.

FOLEY.

[Sup. Cf.

assert. If they are not intimate with him, and see him only
occasionally, the assertion of knowledge of his habits, however
strong, will amount to no more than the assertion of an opinion,
and will not be entitled to equal weight with less positive testimony of other witnesses founded upon a more extended
acquaintance.
In the third place, the instruction requested omits the consideration of the character of the witnesses, as an element in
determining the weight to be given to their testimony. The
force of testimony often depends as much upon the intelligence
and judgment of the witnesses, disclosed by their manner of
testifying, as upon confidence in their general veracity.
The charge given by the court, as stated above, correctly
presented the law of the case. The question was as to the
habits of the insured. His occasional use of intoxicating liquors did not render him a man of intemperate habits, nor
would an exceptional case of excess justify the application of
this character to him. An attack of delirium tremens may
sometimes follow a single excessive indulgence. Ray, in his
treatise on Medical Jurisprudence, says, that, though it most
commonly occurs in habitual drinkers, after a few days of
total abstinence from spirituous liquors, it may be the immediate effect of an excess or series of excesses in those who
are not habitually intemperate as well as in those who are.
Sect. 545. In the American Encyclopedia, under the head of
" Delirium Treiens," it is stated that it - sometimes makes
its appearance in consequence of a single debauch;" though
commonly it is the result of protracted or long-continued intemperance. Vol. v. p. 782.
When we speak of the habits of a person, we refer to his
customary conduct, to pursue which lie has acquired a tendency, from frequent repetition of the same acts. It would 1)e
incorrect to say that a man has a habit of anything from a single act. A habit of early rising, for example, could not be
affirmed of one because lie was once seen on the streets in the
morning before the sun had risen ; nor could intemperate habits be imputed to him )ecause his appearance and actions on
that occasion might indicate a night of excessive indulgence.
The court did not, therefore, err in instructing the jury that if

Oct. 1881.]

BENNECKE V. INSURANCE CO.

the habits of the insured, " in the usual, ordinary, and everyday routine of his life, were temperate," the representations
made are not untrue, within the meaning of the policy,
although he may have had an attack of delirium tremens from
an exceptional over-indulgence. It could not have been contemplated from the language used in the policy that it should
become void for an occasional excess by the insured, but only
when such excess had by frequent repetitions become a habit.
And the testimony of the witnesses, who had been intimate
with him for years, and knew his general habits, may well
have satisfied the jury that, whatever excesses he may at times
have committed, he was not habitually intemperate.
Judgment ajfirined.

BENNECKE

V. INSURANCE COMPANY.

A party whose life was insured died at a place south of a certain parallel of latitude, his visit to which at that season of the year, without the consent of
the company, worked a forfeiture of the policy. A relative, ignorant of his
death, paid the customary price for a permit to go South to the local agent
of the company, who transmitted to its State agents the money, and requested
them to obtain the permit and forward it to him. It was not issued, and
the agent, shortly after hearing of the death of the insured, tendered the
money he had so received. Iield, that the facts did not constitute a waiver
of the forfeiture, and if they did, it was not, under the circumstances,
binding.

to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Illinois.
This was an action of assumpsit brought by Amelia Bennecke to recover of the Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance
Company the sum of $2,000 upon a policy of life insurance.
The parties having waived a jury, the issues, both of fact
and law, were submitted to the court, which made a special
finding, from which the following facts appear: On Jan. 29, 1878, Adolph Bennecke procured from the
Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance Company, through John
Ansley, its agent at Bloomington, Ill., a policy of insurance
ERROR

