Oct. 1881.]

Limis

V. COMAIISSIONRS.

739

The judgment of the Circuit Court will be affirmed, and
the cause remanded, with leave to the court to make such
changes in the order originally entered as may have become
necessary by reason of the time that has elapsed since the writ
of error was brought ; and it is
So ordered.
MR. JUSTICE BLATCHFOID did not sit in this and the case
mentioned in the following note.
Nore. - Lincoln County Court v. United States, error to the same court, was
argued at the same time and by the same counsel as the preceding case.
MR. CHIEF JUsIcE WArri,, on behalf of the court, remarked that the cases
differed only in one particular. Here the bonds were not actually delivered until after the statute requiring registration went into effect, though they were in
the hands of the agent for delivery before. It is contended that on this account
no special tax can be levied for their payment, notwithstanding the judgment
that has been recovered upon them. In our opinion this is a defence that cannot
be taken advantage of after judgment. As has been said in the Ralls County
case, it was conclusively settled by the judgment, which this proceeding is to
carry into execution, that the coupons sued on were binding obligations of the
county, duly created under the authority of law, and as such are entitled to payment out of any fund that can lawfully be created for that purpose.
Judgment affirmed and the cause remanded, with the same order as in that case.

LEWIS V.

COMMISSIONERS.

1. The act of Kansas approved March 2, 1872 (Laws of Kansas, 1872, p. 110),
does not require that the bonds issued pursuant to its provisions by a county
in aid of works of internal improvement siall in all cases be deposited
with the treasurer of state before they are delivered to the auditor of state
for registration and for his certificate thereon, required by the fourteenth
section. Infra, p. 742.
2. That certificate, as between the bona fide holder for value and the county, is
conclusive that the bonds, which by their terms purport to be issued under
that act, and which absolutely and unconditiottally covenant to pay a certain sun of money at a time and place therein named, are negotiable as
the valid obligations of the county.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Kansas.

