Oct. 1881.]

SwoPu

v. LEFFINGWI.LL.

interesting argument against the rulings in those cases; but
we are not convinced they should be overruled."
This court has never until now been called on to decide the
question, but in numerous cases it has assumed that the section
took effect on the day fixed by the Supreme Court of the State.
Town of Coneord v. Portsmouth Savings Bank, 92 U. S. 625;
County of Moultrie v. Roeckingiham Ten-cent Savings Bank, id.
631; County of Randolph v. Post, 93 id. 502; Fairfield v.
County q/ Gallatin, 100 id. 47; Walnut v. Wade, 103 id. 683;
Louisville v. Savings Bank, 104 id. 469. Under these circumstances we are not inclined to consider the question an open
one here while the Supreme Court of the State adheres to its
present rulings.
Judgment affirmed.

SWOPE v. LEFFINGWELL.
This court has jurisdiction to re-examine the judgment of a State court involving the right of a national bank to purchase a promissory note secured by a
deed of trust upon real estate. A motion to affirm will, however, be granted
where that is the only Federal question in the case and the decision below is
in recognition of the right.

EnRor to the Supreme Court of the State of Missouri.
This was a suit brought in the Circuit Court of St. Louis
County, Missouri, against Leffingwell and the other defendants,
to restrain and enjoin the sale of certain real estate in the city
of St. Louis, under a deed of trust executed to secure the payment of a promissory note whereof the Atlas National Bank of
Boston becamc the purchaser. The case was ultimately determined by the Supreme Court of the State reversing the decrees
of the subordinate courts, ad directing that the bill be dismissed. Swope sued out this writ of error.
A motion was made to dismiss the writ for want of jurisdiction, upon the ground that there was no Federal question
involved; to which was united a motion to affirm.
Mr. Philip Phillips in support of the motions.
Mr. . B. Sherzer, contra.

CLAR1K

v.

FPLEDEMICKS.

[Sup. Ct.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
We have jurisdiction of this case. The motion to dismiss
is, therefore, denied; but as the only Federal question presented on the merits was decided by the court below in accordance with our rulings in National Bank v. Matthezws (98 U. S.
621) and National Ban/c v. Whitney (103 id. 99), the motion to
affirm is
Granted.

CLARK v.

FREDERICKS.

1. A judgment will not be reversed because the court below erred in directing
the order in which the evidence was introduced, unless it clearly appears
that the complaining party was thereby injured.
2. An objection to matters which weva not brought to the atteption of the
court below will not be considered here.
3. The finding below covering all the issues is conclusive, and where a request
for special findings was refused, this court will assumne that they were not
established by the evidence.

ERRoR to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Montana.
Davis, having obtained a judgment against Wellington A.
Fredericks, sued out a writ of attachment, by way of execution, which Clark, the sheriff of Gallatin County, Montana
Territory, levied upon some personal chattels alleged to belong to the judgment debtor, but which his wife claimed were
her separate property. This suit was, therefore, brought in
the District Court of that county, by her, against Clark and
Davis, to recover possession of the chattels, or their value in
ease the delivery of them could not be had.
There was a judgment for the plaintiff, which was, on appeal,
affirmed by the Supreme Court of the Territory. Clark and
Davis sued out this writ. The assignment of errors is set out
in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Richard T. Merrile and Mr. Martin F. Morris for the
plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Samuel Shellabarqer and Mr. Jeremiah A. Wilson for
the defendants in error.

