Oct. 1881.]

SWIFT CO. V. UNITED

STATES.

cannot be reopened. As to items 5, 6, and 7 in the new petition, they cannot, in view of the principles laid down in this
opinion, be considered by the Court of Claims. The question
of interest, under item 8, remains for that court to consider.
It is contended on the part of the United States that this
court cannot, under its rules, hear this appeal, because there is
not, in the record, any finding by the Court of Claims of the
facts in the case, in the nature of a special verdict, with a separate statement of the conclusions of law upon such facts.
But the rule in regard to findings of fact has no reference to
a case like the present, of equity jurisdiction conferred in a
special case by a special act; and, in such a case, where an
appeal lies and is taken under sect. 707 of the Revised Statutes, this court must review the facts and the law as in other
cases in equity, appealed from other courts.
Judgment and decree reversed, and the case is remanded with
directions to proceed in it according to law and in conformity with the opinion of this court.

SWIFT COMPANY V.

UNITED STATES.

1. Under the act of July 14, 1870, c. 255, the proprietor of friction-matches, who
furnished his own dies, was entitled to a commission of ten per cent, payable
in money upon the amount of adhesive stamps over 8500 which he at any
one time purchased for his own use from the Bureau of Internal Revenue.
2. The provisions of the statute being clear to that effect, lie is entitled to recover pursuant thereto, although a different contemporaneous construction
of them was given by the bureau, it not appearing that lie acquiesced
therein.

from the Court of Claims.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
APPEAL

Mr. George H. Williams for the appellant.
The Solicitor-General for the United States.
MR.

JUSTICE

MATTHEWS

delivered the opinion of

the

court.
The Swift and Courtney and Beecher Company filed its

SWIFT

CO. V. UNITED

STATES.

[Sup. Ct°

petition Jan. 20, 1879, in the Court of Claims, for the recovery
of certain commissions alleged to be due to it on purchases of
proprietary stamps under the internal revenue laws.
It alleged that it was, during the period covered by the
transactions set out, the proprietor, manufacturer, and vendor
of friction-matches ; that, as such, at the beginning of its business, it furnished to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue its
own die for stamps, to be used especially for its own proprietary articles ; that, during said period, from time to time, and
continuously on different days of each and every month, it sent
to him sums of money from $1,000 to $10,000 as suited its convenience, and that lie transmitted to it stamps, as it needed
and ordered ; so that in the account between it and him as
to its stamps the creditor side showed moneys received by
him in certain sums and at certain dates, but showed the receipt of no sum less than $1,000, and the debtor side of said
account showed that stamps were sent by him to it in different
sums and at different dates, but never in amounts less than
$1,000.
It is further averred that upon the whole amount of stamps
purchased, during the period referred to, the company was
entitled to a commission of ten per cent in money, amounting to $389,720.40, which he has refused to allow; and has
allowed in lieu thereof $354,291.27 in stamps at their face
value; insisting such to be the long-established practice of the
office, to which he must adhere, till changed by legislation or
judicial decision. The company, in the petition, in reference
to this practice, avers "that the allowances made to it from
time to time between May 6, 1870, and Dec. 24, 1878, have
been in accordance with the uniform practice of said interral revenue office from its organization, but petitioner avers
that at different times prior to 1866 protests were made to time
Commissioner of Internal Revenue by and on behalf of the
manufacturers of friction-matches against such a construction
of the statute by him, by which only ten per cent commissions
in stamps at their face value were allowed by him upon the
amount of money paid by the purchasers, instead of ten per
cent upon the whole amount of stamps purchased, and that
such facts are and have always been known to petitioner."

Oct. 1881.]

SWIFT CO. v. UNITED

STATES.

It is also averred that the company gave the required security
for a credit of sixty days upon its purchase of stamps, as provided 'for in the act of June 30, 1864, c. 173 (13 Stat. 218,
295), which enacts, " That the Commissioner of Internal Revenue may from time to time furnish, supply, and deliver to any
manufacturer of friction or other matches, cigar lights, or wax
tapers, a suitable quantity of adhesive or other stamps, such as
may be prescribed for use in such cases, without pre-payment
therefor, on a credit not exceeding sixty days, requiring in advance such security as may be judged necessary to secure payment therefor, to the Treasurer of the United States within
the time prescribed for such payment."
The defendant filed a general demurrer, which was sustained,
and judgment rendered dismissing the petition. To review this
judgment the present appeal is prosecuted by the company.
Section 102 of the act of July 1, 1862, c. 119 (12 Stat. 477),
authorized the Commissioner of Internal Revenue to sell to and
supply collectors, deputy collectors, postmasters, stationers, or
any other persons, at his discretion, with adhesive stamps,
upon the payment at the time of delivery of the amount of
duties said stamps represent, and thereupon to allow and deduct from the aggregate amount of such stamps the sum of
not exceeding five per cent as commission, with the proviso,
" that any proprietor or proprietors of articles named in schedule C, who shall furnish his or their own die or design for
stamps, to be used especially for his or their own proprietary
articles, shall be allowed the following discount, namely: on
amounts purchased at one time of not less than fifty nor more
than five hundred dollars, five per centum; on amounts over
live hundred dollars, ten per centum."
By the act of March 3, 1863, c. 74 (12 Stat. 714), the word
commission " was substituted for " discount " in this proviso.
This section as thus amended was re-enacted as sect. 161
of the act of June 30, 1864, c. 173 (13 Stat. 294), and schedule
C enlarged so as to include friction-matches. p. 302.
Section 4 of the act of July 14, 1870, e. 255 (16 Stat. 257),
continued in force the same provision, directing that proprietors of articles named in schedule C, who shall furnish their
own dies, shall be allowed commissions, on amounts over five

SWIFT

CO. V. UNITED

STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

hundred dollars, "ten per centum on the whole amount purchased."
It will be perceived, on examining this legislation, that
while, in respect to adhesive stamps sold, other than those to
proprietors of articles named in schedule C from their own dies
for their own use, the rate of the commission to be allowed
to the purchaser shall not exceed five per cent, but within
that limit, is subject to the discretion of the Commissioner of
Internal Revenue; while, in respect to those of the latter
class, including stamps on friction-matches, the rate is fixed
by the statute itself, and in the form as expressed in the act
of 1870, where the amounts of purchases are over $500, the
commissions are established at ten per cent on the whole
amount purchased. So that, while in the sale of adhesive
stamps of the former description, in the exercise of his discretion as to the rate, he might lawfully provide that the commjissions should be paid only in stamps at their face value, yet, in
the sale of stamps to proprietors of friction-matches, he was
not authorized to diminish the commission by any such regulation, but was required to allow and pay in money ten per
cent calculated on the amount of stamps purchased on all sales
exceeding $500 in amount.
In the present case the commissions were allowed to the
company not on the whole amount of stamps furnished to it,
nor in money, but in stamps at their face value, calculated on
the amount of money paid by it. This suit was brought to
recover the difference between the amounts, resulting from
these two modes of calculating and allowing commissions.
There is no serious question raised as to the proper construetion of the internal revenue acts upon the point, it being
virtually admitted that the contention on the part of the appellant upon the provisions of the statutes is correct.
It is met, however, in the opinion of the Court of Claims,
and in argument on behalf of the government here, that the
contrary construction, to pay these commissions in stamps at
their face value, has been acted upon by the Commissioner of
Internal Revenue from the beginning; has been acquiesced in
by purchasers and dealers ; and has never been changed by
Congress and as an official practice has thus acquired the

Oct. 1881.]

SWIFT CO. v. UNITED STATES.

force of law; or if not, then, at least, it was a course of dealing, well known to the appellant, and acquiesced iii, by which
it accepted stamps at, their face value in payment of its commissions, which it is not at liberty now to open, question, and
reverse.
The right construction of the internal revenue acts, upon the
point of the allowance of commissions to dealers in proprietary
articles, purchasing stamps made from their own dies, and for
their own use, is too clear to bring the case within the first
The rule which gives determining weight to
alternative.
contemporaneous construction, put upon a statute, by those
charged with its execution, applies only in cases of ambiguity
atid doubt. Edwea'ds's Lessee v. ])aby, 12 Wheat. 206;
Snymq hev. Fiske, 23 Wall. 374; United &tates v. Moore, 95
U. S. 760 ; Uited States v. Pugdh, 99 id. 265.
We are of opinion that the averments of the petition, adinitted by the demurrer, do not bring it within the operation
of the principle invoked in the second alternative. The case
made by the petition is not that of successive and independent
purchases of stamps, settled for, at the time, when the commissions given by the law were paid by the commissioner, the purchaser voluntarily accepting payment, not in money, but in
other stamps; and new dealings, of the same character, but
separate as to each instance, had, afterwards, upon the same
footing and by inutual understanding. On time contrary, the
business was conducted upon the footing of a running account.
Money was paid on account of stamps furnished or to be furnished, in sums, differing in amount, but not less in any case
than 50oo0; and stamps were supplied in xarying quantities, as
ordered, without reference to corresponding and equivalent
payments of cash; a bond with satisfactory security, in pursilaice of law, having been given and accepted, to secure the gov(rnment against loss, in consequence of purchases on credit.
The dealing is, undoubtedly, evidence that the appellant was
wiliing to purchase stamps, to be paid for by a credit on account, in lieu of cash for commissions; but it does not prove
that he was willing to waive his right to a commission upon
the stamps so purchased. And it would be incumbent on the
governmemt, in order to deprive him of his statutory right, not

Ex

PARTE MASON.

[Sup. Ct.

only to show facts, from which an agreement to do so might
be inferred, but an actual settlement based upon such an understanding. The allegations in the petition, in our opinion, do
not constitute such a bar to the recovery sought, and the denurrer interposed should not, therefore, have been sustained.
For this error, the judgment of the Court of Claims will be
reversed, and the cause remanded for further proceedings in
accordance with law; and it is
So ordered.

Ex

PARTI

MASON.

1. Where, by a general military court-martial, a person then in the military service of the United States was found guilty of an offence, and sentenced to
be discliarged from that service, and be imprisoned at hard labor in the
penitentiary, - Held, that lie cannot, under a habeas corpus, be discharged
from imprisonmient if the court had jurisdiction to try him for the offence
and was authorized to render the sentence whereof lie complains. Sed qure,
can this court order in his behalf the issue of that writ?
2. A., it soldier of the army, while on duty in 1882 at the jail in Washiigton
City, maliciously attempted to kill a prisoner who was, by the authority
of the United States, there confined. No application was made for the
delivery of A. to the civil authorities, but lie was, oni a charge of having
violated the sixty-second Article of Wilr, tried by a general court-martial,
and sentenced to be imprisoned in the penitentiary for the term of eight
years, and to be dishonorably discharged from the service, with the forfeiture of his pay and allowance due and to become due. Held, 1. That. the
fifty-eighth and fifty-ninth Articles of War have ito application to the ease.
2. That the act being a breach of military discipline as well as a crime
against society, the court-martial had jurisdiction to try A., and to pronounce the sentence, inasmuch as lie was, by the statute in) force itl the
District of Columbia, subject, on con viction, to imprisonen t fbr that period
in the penitentiary, and the court could, in its discretion, inflict the other
penalties.

of haleas corptus and a certiorari.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

PETITION for a writ

Mr. James M. Lyddy for the petitioner.
Mr. Asa Bird Gardner,contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.

This is a petition for a writ of habeas corpus to release John

