ASYLUMI v. NEW ORLEANS.

[Sup. Ct.

until October 26. On November 6, eleven days thereafter, he
tendered back to Haker the money advanced by him to pay for
the permit. Under the circumstances of this case we do not
think this lapse of time sufficient to show that Ansley intended
to waive the forfeiture of the policy, even if he had been
clothed with authority to do so.
If the company was bound by the act of Ansley in receiving
the money for the permit, it was entitled to the benefit of his
act in tendering it back. One tender was sufficient. That
made by Ansley was never disavowed by the company. On
the contrary, the company renewed it upon the trial of the
cause in the Circuit Court.
Under the circumstances of this case, the contention that
the insurance company waived the forfeiture of the policy is
without support.
Judgment affirmed.

ASYLUM v. NEw ORLEANS.
An institution in the city of New Orleans for the relief of destitute females
and helpless children of all religious denominations was incorporated April
29, 1853, by an act of the General Assembly of the State of Louisiana,
which declares that from and after its passage all the property, real and
personal, belonging to the institution "is hereby exempted from all taxation
either by the State, parish, or city in which it is situated, any law to the
contrary notwithstanding." By means of donations the institution erected
an asylum, and has always fulfilled the objects for which it was est'iblished.
In the year 1874 certain property-a cotton-press-was devised to it, the
revenues of which have been faithfully applied to enable it to carry on its
work. Under a statute enacted in pursuance of article 118 of the State Constitution of 1868 (ifra, p. 364), the city in 1876 imposed upon that property
a tax, the validity of which was sustained by the court below. Held, 1. That
imposing the tax without granting any compensation or iidenmnity was not
a legitimate exercise of the power of dissolving corporations which is reserved
in a provision of the Code of Louisiana. 2. That the statute and the provision, as they were construed and applied to the circumstances of this ease,
are in violation of the tenth section of the first article of the Constitution of
the United States.

EnRoR to the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana.

Thefacts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Oct. 1881.]

ASYLUM v. NEW ORLEANS.

Mr. Edwin T. Merrick and Mr. George TV. Race for the
plaintiff in error.

Mr. Henry C. Miller, contra.
MR. JUSTICL BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This case comes before us for the purpose of reviewing the
judgment of the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana,
which sustained the validity of a certain tax imposed by the
authorities of the city of New Orleans upon the property of
the plaintiff in error, the "' St. Anna's Asylum for the relief
of destitute females and helpless children of all religious denominations," a charitable institution which was incorporated
by an act of the legislature of Louisiana, approved April 29,
1853, for the purposes indicated by its name. The charter gave
it perpetual succession and power to take, purchase, possess,
and enjoy all kinds of property whatever, real or personal, by
gift, grant, sale, bequest, exchange, or by any other mode of
conveyance or transfer whatsoever, and the same to sell, convey, or dispose of under the restrictions therein provided, and
directed that it should administer the same for the furtherance of the object of the incorporation and in accordance with
the conditions of the charter ; with a provision, that all acceptances of immovable property, and all alienations of immovable
property and stocks, should be signed by the president and
treasurer, after the declared will of a majority of the board of
directors had been duly inscribed on the minutes of the corporation. It appointed a first board of directors, and provided
for annual elections thereafter, and for the appointment of a
president and other officers, and declared that the president
and directors should superintend, manage, and control the
affairs and interests of the corporation.
The sixth section declared as follows: " SECT. 6. -Be it further encted, &e., tbat the said corporation
shall enjoy the same exemption from taxation as was enacted in
fhvor of the 'Orphan Boys' Asylum of New Orleans' by the act
approved March 12, 1836, entitled, I An Act for the relief of the
Orphan Boys' Asylum of New Orleans.' "

The act relating to the " Orphan Boys' Asylum of New Orleans," referred to in this section, declared as follows: -

ASYLUM v. NEW ORLEANS.

[Sup. Ct.

"That from and after the passage of this act all the property, real
and personal, belonging to the Orphan Boys' Asylum of New Orleans be and the same is hereby exempted from all taxation either
by the State, parish, or city in which it is situated, any law to the
contrary notwithstanding."
The proofs show that under the charter thus granted the
corporation was duly organized, and, by means of donations,
erected an asylum, and has always fulfilled the objects of its
organization. The property on which the tax in question was
imposed was procured in 1874, and was assessed in the tax-list
at $90,000. The following admission with regard to it appears
in the record :-

"Now, therefore, it is admitted (as was done in the lower
court) that the defendant acquired said cotton-press mentioned
in the tax-bill and answer filed by defendant, after 1874, by
devise, bequest, and legacy, from Dr. W. N. Mercer, and
that they were the owners of the same when said assessment
of $1,350 of city taxes was made by the city. That no inmates of the asylum are kept upon the premises, and that the
revenues of the cotton-press on which said assessment is made
are applied to the keeping and maintaining the objects of charity mentioned in the defendant's act of incorporation, viz. to
the support and maintenance and relief of destitute females
and helpless children of all religious denominations, as intended
by the charter, and that said asylum is, and has been since its
organization, in active and efficient operation (as shown by the
evidence) in the city of New Orleans."
The proofs further show that the corporation largely relies
on the rents of this property for enabling it to carry on its
benevolent work.
The tax in question was imposed in 1876 under the supposed
authority of the Constitution of 1868, and legislation adopted
in pursuance thereof. Article 118 of that Constitution declared as follows: " Taxation shall be equal and uniform
throughout the State. All property shall be taxed in proportion to its value, to be ascertained as directed by law. The
General Assembly shall have power to exempt from taxation
property actually used for church, school, or charitable purposes."

Oct. 1881.]

ASYLUM V. NEW ORLEANS.

In conformity with this provision the legislature of Louisiana, in 1871, passed a law delaring that all taxes levied by
the city of New Orleans shall be assessed equally upon every
description of property, both real and personal; but, by another act, passed at the same session, it was declared that
public hospitals, asylums, poor-houses, and all other charitable
institutions for the relief of indigent and afflicted persons, and
the lots of ground appurtenant thereto and used therewith,
and all their furniture and equipments, so long as the same
shall be used for that purpose only, shall be exempt from
taxation.

The corporation resisted the payment of the tax, and the
usual proceedings for its collection were instituted in the Third
District Court for the Parish of Orleans.
The corporation
filed an answer setting up the exemption from taxes contained
in its charter, and claiming that it was a contract, and contended that the Constitution of 1868, and the statute passed
in pursuance thereof, impaired the obligation of said contract,
in violation of the tenth section of the first article of the Constitution of the United States. The court below gave jidgment in favor of the city, and an appeal was taken to the
Supreme Court of Louisiana, and the judgment was affirmned.
We are now called upon to review this decision.
The language of the exemption is so explicit and so broad,
and comes in after so many allusions to property which it is
supposed the corporation might acquire, other than that which
would be directly used for food and shelter to the destitute
and helpless persons under its care, that no doubt can be
entertained as to its literal application to all the property of
the society which it would be lawful and proper for it to
possess.
The funds on which it relies for carrying on its
work, however invested, whether in stocks, real estate, or

otherwise, no less than the asylumn building itself, are clearly
embraced in the terms of the exemption; and to exclude
them from its operation would require the insertion or addition

of words which the legislature did not see fit to express.
I.udoubtedly, if the corporation should acquire property not,
needed or used for carrying on the institution, it would he an
act outside of the objects and purposes of the charter, and

ASYLUM v. Niw ORLEANS.

[Sup. Ct.

ultra vires ; and, as to such property, it could not, in its own
wrong, justly claim the benefit of the exemption. But the
property in question is not obnoxious to this objection; it
directly contributes to the support of the institution, and is
held for that purpose alone.
Jndeed, it is not on any assumption that the language of the
exemption does not extend to the property taxed that the
Supreme Court of Louisiana bases its judgment. The main
ground upon which it relies is, that the charter was granted
and accepted under a standing law of the State, by which the
legislature was authorized to abrogate the charter of any corporation ; and it was argued that the power to abrogate ineluded the lesser power to alter and amend. This law is contained in article 438 of the Civil Code adopted in 1825, being
a modification of a similar article in the Code of 1808, book i.
tit. 10, c. 3. In the Code of 1825 it reads as follows: "Chapter III. Of the dissolution of corporations. (Art. 438.)
A corporation legally established may be dissolved: 1. By an act
of the legislature, if they deem it necessary or convenient to the
public interest; provided that when an act of incorporation imports
a contract, on the faith of which individuals have advanced money
or engaged their property, it cannot be repealed without providing
for the reimbursement of the advances made, or making full indemnity to such individuals ; 2. By the forfeiture of their charter, when
the corporations abuse their privileges, or refuse to accomplish the
conditions on which such privileges were granted," &c.
The counsel for the plaintiff in error contends that this
article has reference only to the absolute dissolution of a corporation and not to a mere alteration of its charter; and, from
its correlation to other parts of the title, this seems to be a
very probable view of its office. But if it be construed in the
large sense contended for by the counsel of the city, the qualification with which it is accompanied in the proviso is very
important and not to be ignored. This qualification requires
reimbursement or indemnity to those who have made advances
upon the faith of the charter of incorporation. Nothing of
the kind has been attempted in this case. As the corporation
has not been dissolved, but is continued in existence, and still

Oct. 1881.1

ASYLUM v. NEW ORLEANS.

represents those who contributed to its establishment, the corporation itself is the only proper party to receive indemnity;
and no indemnity short of the amount of the tax imposed
would be adequate. The indemnity and the tax would mutually balance or neutralize each other. In other words,
proper indemnity would require a revocation or nullity of the
tax.
It is suggested, however, by the Supreme Court, in its opinion, that the reserved power contained in the code has no
application to this case, because the property upon which the
tax in question was imposed was acquired by gratuitous donation after the adoption of the Constitution of 1868, and consequently (as the court infers) after the repeal of so much of
the charter as exempted from taxation the property not employed within the limits of exemption allowed by that Constitution. " When a case of prior acquired property," says tle
court, " presents itself, it will be time enough to express our
opinion thereon." But this argument presupposes the existence of a right to repeal the provisions of the charter as to
future acquisitions, without qualification or condition. This
seems to us a begging of the question at issue. The contract
did not apply only to property in existence when the charter

was granted, nor only to that which was in existence when the
Constitution of 1868 was adopted, but to all that might afterwards be acquired in the due fulfilnent of the purposes of the
institution. If the present asylum should be destroyed, and a
new one erected on a different piece of ground, the argument
of the court would be equally applicable to such newly acquired property as to the property in question. The Constitution itself did not exempt any property. It only gave the
legislature the power (to be exercised, or not, in its discretion)
to exempt property actually used for chureh, school, and char-

itable purposes. The legislature has seen fit to make this
exemption; but it was not obliged by the Constitution to do
so. The argument of the Supreme Court would go to the
extent of declaring that the abrogation of the contract, effected
by the Constitution of 1868, was valid as to all after-acquired
property, whether indemnity was provided or not; and this
amounts to saying that the legislature or people of Louisiana

ASYLUM

v.

NEW ORLEANS.

[Sup. Ct.

had absolute power to pass a law impairing the obligation of
the contract, without any condition or qualification whatsoever.
We cannot concur in this view. We think that the power
of abrogation, or alteration, was qualified by the duty of providing indemnity to the full extent of the damage or burden
caused by such change. This conclusion seems to us so obvious as to require no extended argument in its support.
This opinion might be extended by an examination of authorities. We might refer to Home oJ' the Friendless v. Rouse
(8 Wall. 430), which is almost on all-fours with the present
case. We might go back to the case of Dartmouth College v.
W'oodward, and the cases since decided, and review all the
reasons on which they were grounded ; we might. dilate on the
legislative reasons for granting immunity from taxes to such
charitable institutions as that of the plaintiff in error, prominent among which would doubtless be the fact that the support
and maintenance extended to the objects of the charity relieves
the State from a burden which would involve a much larger
amount of taxation than that which it waives by granting the
exemption. But such a review would be but a repetition of
what has been said before, and much of it would be out of
place.
It is proper, however, that we should notice one or two cases
which the counsel for the city suppose to be favorable to their
views, and on which they place considerable reliance. These
are Tucker v. Ferguson, 22 Wall. 527, and West Wisconsin
Railway Co. v. Board of Superisors, 93 U. S. 595. We
think that they do not apply to the case now under consideration. In the first place, the Constitutions of Michigan
and Wisconsin, in which States those cases arose, reserved to
their legislatures, respectively, the power to alter, amend, and
repeal charters of incorporation. In the next place, in those
cases, the exemption granted was held to be gratuitous on the
part of the State, no consideration passing therefor from the
companies. It was no part of their charters of incorporation,
and, therefore, formed no consideration for their acceptance.
Whereas, in the present case, the exemption was expressed in
the charter itself, and was one of the inducements offered for

Oct. 1881.]

ASYLUM v. NEW ORLEANS.

its acceptance, and for making donations for the establishment
of the institution.
It is also said that, in order to constitute a contract, the
grant ought to be clear and free from all ambiguity and doubt,
and not susceptible of a different construction. We think it
is so in this case. The contract is not a matter of inference
or presumption. It is distinctly expressed in the act of incorporation. Indeed, a clearer case could hardly be made. The
addition of a declaration, that the exemption given should not
be withdrawn, would not have added to its force.
We are well aware of the forcible language which has been
used in previous cases in reference to the importande to the
State of the governmental function of taxation ; the caution
that ought to be exercised in maintaining a claimed exemption
from taxes ; the clearness and certainty which the grant should
exhibit. We concur in all that has been said by this court
and many State courts on the subject. But where the language is clear, and the intention to grant the exemption apparent, the court has never hesitated to give it force and effect.
And, as before said, we think it difficult to conceive a grant
more clearly expressed than that in the present case ; and
unless we are disposed to reverse the previous decisions of
this court, we cannot hesitate what judgment we ought to
give.
We are of opinion that the imposition of the tax in question, contrary to the express terms of the charter, and without
any provision for compensation or indemnity, was not a legitimate exercise of the power of dissolution reserved in the code;
and that sect. 118 of the Constitution of 1868, and the legislative act by virtue of which the said tax was imposed, as construed and applied to the circumstances of this case, are in
violation of the tenth section of article 1 of the Constitution of
the United States.
Our conclusion is that the judgment of the Supreme Court
of Louisiana must be reversed, and that the cause be remanded
with instructions to reverse the judgment of the Third District
Court of the Parish of Orleans, and to render judgment in
conformity with this opinion. •
So ordered.
voL. xv.

2A

COUNTY O1,' AOULTtZIE

V. FAIlMIELD.

[Sup. CL.

MR. JUSTICE MILLER, with whom concurred MR. JUSTICE
FIELD, dissenting.

I dissent from this judgment, because I understand that no
statute shall be held to grant exemption from taxation unless

its language imperatively requires it.
I do not think that the language of the statute under which
the exemption is claimed in this case requires that all property acquired by the institution after the passage of the act
shall be exempted, especially in regard to a cotton-picking
machine, which can only be of value as it is used in a business
operation in competition with others who must pay heavy
taxes.

COUNTY OF MOULTRIE V.

FAIRFIELD.

1. The charter of the Decatur, Sullivan, and Mattoon Railroad Company, which
took effect March 26, 1869, authorized the board of supervisors of the
county of Moultrie, Illinois, to subscribe to the capital stock of that corpany to an amount not exceeding 580,000, and also, should it be sanctioned
by a popular vote, to make a donation in aid of the company, and in each
case to issue the requisite amount of county bonds..
2. Where, before the adoption of the Constitution of Illinois of 1870, a donation
in aid of a railroad company had, pursuant to law, been voted by a county,
bpnds to pay that donation might be thereafter issued.
3. That vote cannot b held for naught, although in the notice of, and the
petition "for, the election at which it was cast the company is misnamed,
if it sufficiently appears that the company was meant.
4. In this case the power to levy a tax was conferred, the company performed
all the conditions which, by the vote cast Nov. 2, 1869, entitled it to receive
the donation bonds, and they were delivered Nov. 1, 1871, reciting the law
authorizing their issue. Held, that, in a suit by a bon .fide holder of the
coupons cut therefrom, a recovery cannot be defeated upon the ground that,
in order to pay the principal and interest and the county expenses, the
assessment must exceed the limitation imposed by sect. 8, art. 9, of the
Constitution of 1870.
.5. Qumere, Is there any limit upon the power of taxation to raise means to meet
the indebtedness of which the bonds in question are the evidence.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Illinois.
This action was brought by Fairfield against the county of
M'oultrie, upon the common counts, for money lent, money had

