Oct. 1881.]

CARITE

v.

TROTOT.

examination into the facts, attest the regularity and legality of
the bonds. If the determination of that officer, in this case,

operates hardly upon the people of the county, the result must
be attributed to the legislation in question as well as to the
negligence of the State and county officers. What we have

said is in harmony with the settled doctrines of this court upon
the subject of negotiable securities issued by municipal corporations, as announced in numerous cases with which the profession is familiar, and which need not be here cited.
There are other questions in the case.

But they are of

minor importance, and it seems to be unnecessary to consider
them.
Judgment reversed, and cause remanded with directions to
enter a judgment in favor of the plaintiff below.

CARITE v. TitOTOT.
1. The seizure and sale under executory process, authorized by art. 732 of the
Code of Practice of Louisiana, vest in the purchaser, as against the owner
and subsequent incumbrancers, an absolute title to the mortgaged lands.
2. Such incunibrancers cannot set aside a conveyance by the creditor to ihe
mortgagor's wife, made pursuant to his agreement with her, that should he
purchase the lands when they were subjected to judicial sale, lie would sel
them to her.
3. " The separation of property obtained by the wife" is not renJered void by
the omission to publish it pursuant to art. 2429 of the Civil Code, nor
by the consent of the husband that the case might be tried, nor by tle
failure to issue execution on the judgment authorizing the separation,
where the object of the suit was merely to put an end to the comunity
and to secure to her and her children the right to her future earnings, ie
not being condemned to pay any money other than the costs.
4. Under art. 2425 of the Civil Code, his financial embarrassment is sufficient to>
authorize a judgment of separation of property in her favor.
5. The proper parish court had jurisdiction of such a suit, although it was not
prosecuted for the recovery of money or money's worth.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

CARITE V. TROTOT.

[Sup. Ct.

Mr. T7omas J. Semmes for the appellants.
Mr. Joseph P. flornor and Mr. William S. Benedict for the
appellee.
delivered the opinion of the court.
by F6licit6 Trotot, the appellee,
filed
This is a bill in equity
to foreclose a mortgage and for the sale of the mortgaged property, consisting principally of a sugar plantation with its inprovements, in Louisiana. The property originally belonged
to Jean Baptiste Clement, a citizen of France, who, and also
his agent and attorney in fact, Antoine C. Tremoulet, by whom
be was represented in the transactions in question, are parties
to the suit, and appellants, with Celestine Carite and her children. Clement, through Tremoulet, sold the property Sept.
22, 1869, to the firm of Copponex & Co., composed of Copponex, Moulor, and Carite, the husband of Celestine, for
$55,000, of which $10,000 was paid in cash, $6,764 was an incumbrance in favor of the Citizens' Bank of Louisiana, assumed
by the purchasers, and the remainder, evidenced by their four
promissory notes for $9,559 each, payable respectively Sept. 1,
1870, 1871, 1872, and 1873, with interest at eight per cent per
annum, amounting to $38,236, was secured by mortgage upon
the premises.
On Jan. 11, 1871, Copponex sold his interest in the firm
business and this property to his partners for ,$10,000 cash, they
assuming the debts of the partnership; and on Dec. 30, 1872,
Moulor sold his interest to Carito for ,$55,000, in addition to the
assumption by the latter of the incumbrance in favor of the
Citizens' Bank, amounting then to $5,573, and three unpaid
notes of $9,559 each, with interest, still due to Tremoulet as
agent for Clement. For the purchase-money, agreed to be paid
to Moulor, Carite gave eleven promissory notes of $5,000 each, three payable in one year from date, two in two years, two in
three years, two in four years, and two in five years,- secured
by mortgage upon the plantation.
The appellee claims to be the holder and owner of five of
these notes, the first three and the second two, bearing interest
at the rate of eight per cent per annum, and to have the right,
they being overdue and unpaid, to foreclose the mortgage
MR. JUSTICE MATTHEWS

Oct. 1881.]

CARITE V. TROTOT.

given by Carite to Moulor, and sell the mortgaged premises
for the payment of the amount due thereon. She also insists
that her mortgage securing the debt is the first and best lien
upon the premises, except what may still appear to be due to
the Citizens' Bank.
As the grounds of this priority, the bill alleges that on Feb.
10, 1873, Casimir Carite, conspiring with his wife, Celestine
Carite, and Tremoulet, induced the latter to institute, in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Louisiana, proceedings, by executory process, in the name of Clement,
upon the mortgage and notes given by Copponex & Co., for
the seizure and sale of the premises, and caused them to be
sold to Treinoulet for a price less than the amount due to the
Citizens' Bank, and the amount claimed to be due to Clement,
and the title was conveyed to him accordingly; that the proceedings and sale were simulated and fraudulent, the possession of Casimir Carite not being disturbed thereby, and the
object being to defraud the appellee and his other creditors;
and that, in point of fact, the debt originally due from Copponex & Co. to Clement, secured by the mortgage to the latter,
was, at the date of said proceedings and sale, paid and extinguished ; that, in further prosecution of the same conspiracy
and fraud, Casimir Carite induced and caused his wife, on Feb.
13, 1873, to file a petition in the Parish Court of St. James,
in Louisiana, representing that she was married to him April
23, 1863, and that there existed between them a community of
acquests and gains, which allegations, it is admitted, were true,
but further setting f6rth that be had become hopelessly involved in debt, which, it is alleged, was false, and prayed for a
judgment of separation of property from him ; that a pretended
defence was made by him to the petition, on which judgment
was rendered in her favor, separating her in property from him,
and dissolving the community of acquests and gains theretofore
existing between them ; that this proceeding was fraudulent
and void, because it was voluntary and by consent, because the
wife had no claim against him and alleged none, and assigned
no reason in law why such separation should be decreed, because
there was no derangement of his affairs, and no allegation that
his wife could conduct the business of the plantation better
VOL. XV.

48

CARITE v. TROTOT.

[Sup. Ct.

than he, the latter in point of fact having conducted the same
after the decree, as before; and because said judgment was
never published as required by law, nor ever executed in any
manner by the issue of any writ; that, in further pursuance of
said conspiracy and fraud, Tremoulet, on May 22, 1873, pretending to act as his agent, made to Celestine Carite a pretended
sale of the said plantation and property for a sum sufficient to
cover the amount alleged to be due to Clement, although that
debt, or a large part of it, had previously been satisfied and
extinguished.
The prayer of the bill is that the proceedings under which
Tremoulet purchased the premises for Clement, the decree of
separation of property from her husband on behalf of Mrs.
Carite, and the sale and conveyance to her of the plantation by
Clement, be adjudged to be void and be set aside, and that the
complainant's mortgage and debt be charged as the first lien on
the same, and be satisfied by a sale thereof for that purpose.
The final decree of the Circuit Court is substantially in
accordance with the prayer of the bill, declaring that the sale
to Tremoulet for Clement, and by him to Celestine Carite, be
set aside and annulled as simulated and illegal ; that the judgment of separation of property between her and her husband
is null and void for want of publication ; that the plantation
and property be recognized as belonging to the community
formerly subsisting between Carite and his wife, as it did
before said simulated sales were made; and that the complainant had established the mortgage under which she claims, as
a valid and subsisting lien upon the property to secure the sum
of $25,000, with interest at the rate of eight per cent per
annum from Dec. 30, 1872, for which, if not paid within sixty
days, it was ordered that the premises be sold.
The object of this appeal is to review that decree.
The first question it presents relates to the validity and
effect of the judicial proceedings taken by Tremoulet, which
resulted in the sale of the property to Clement.
Against its validity it is asserted in the bill that the debt to
Clement, at the time of the sale, had been extinguished, and
that the proceeding, therefore, was a mere pretext and cover
for an intended fraud. But the evidence leaves no doubt that

Oct. 1881.]

CARITE

v. TROTOT.

this was an unfounded suspicion. It is abundantly established
by the proof that, at the time of the sale, there was still due
on account of the debt to the Citizens' Bank, assumed by
Carite, $5,573, and that two of the notes for $9,559 each, on
one of which interest had been running from Jan. 15, 1873,
an(d on the other from its date, Sept. 1, 1869, were overdue and
unpaid ; and that another note of the same series, and of the
same amount, falling due Sept. 1, 1873, was held by Treioulet
for Clement, the whole amounting to 34,395.40.
The proceeding itself, though summary, was familiar in
practice in such cases, and strictly according to the law of
Louisiana, and if not voidable on other grounds, had the effect
to vest in Clement an absolute title to the property, free of all
subsequent incumnbrances. It was executory process which is
authorized (Code of Practice, art. 732) " when the creditor's
right arises from an act importing a confession of judgment,
and which contains a privilege or mortgage in his favor
which is the case (art. 733) " when it is passed before a notary
public, or other officer fulfilling the same functions, in the
presence of two witnesses, and the debtor has declared or
acknowledged the debt for which he gives the privilege or
mortgage." By art. 3:360, Civil Code, it is declared " that the
debtor cannot sell, engage, or mortgage the same property to
other persons, to the prejudice of the mortgage which is already
acquired to another creditor ; " so that the seizure and sale, by
virtue of executory process under a mortgage, are not affected
by the existence of subsequent mortgages, the owners of which
are not made parties to the proceeding. The security of the
latter, in that event, is transferred to the proc,,eeds of the sale,
and their protection consists in the requirement that no sale
shall take place for less than two-thirds of the value of the
mortgaged property, as appraised for that purpose. This effect
is expressly declared by Code of Practice, arts. 707, 708. Hart
v. Foley, 1 Rob. (La.) 378. It follows, therefore, that unless
the judicial sale to Clement is a nullity, the mortgage lien of
the appellee is itself extinct, though the mortgage debt will
survive as a personal obligation.
It is contended, however, by the appellee, that this sale to
Clement was void, as a fraud upon her rights as a creditor of

CARITE V. TROTOT.

[Sup. Ct.

Carite, because taken in connection with the subsequent sale
to Mrs. Carite, it was intended to defeat the claims of the
creditors of her husband, and to place this property beyond
their reach.
The circumstances attending the transaction are these:
Carite was undoubtedly insolvent. Two of the notes, held
by Tremoulet for Clement, had become due, and remained unpaid. He was in arrears on account of interest. le was
embarrassed by other debts, for which he was pressed, so as
seriously to threaten the uninterrupted prosecution of the business of the plantation. The notes were placed by Tremoulet
in the hands of an attorney for collection. The necessary formal preliminary demand of payment was made. A negotiation
for an extension of time was begun by Carite, who suggested that
he could make such an arrangement with all his creditors. Tremoulet told Cai ite that he had no desire to acquire the property,
as he represented Clement, who resided in France, and who did
not wish a sugar plantation, and would not know what to do
with one if lie had it ; but that he would feel obliged to act
upon the matured notes if the consequence of non-action was to
be the seizure of the mortgaged property by other creditors
and the consequent diminution of the security. The upshot
was his promise to abstain from a seizure under the mortgage
until Carite should have time to arrange with his creditors,
provided no seizure was made by other parties.
What efforts Carite made to obtain from other creditors the
desired indulgence do not appear, but if any were made they
did not succeed. On Feb. 7, 1873, Tremoulet, in a letter to
Clement, reported that, by an arrangement with Carite, the
latter would make no objection to the sale and seizure of the
immovables, and would rather facilitate the execution thereof,
on condition that Tremoulet would oblige himself, buying them
in Clenient's name, to resell the same to his wife, from whom
lie was separated in property, at a price that would cover all
that was due to Clement, including interest, costs, and attorney's fees, provided that nobody should put in a higher bid
than that amount, the accrued interest to be paid in cash.
The terms, he added, were not then fixed, but might be soon,
and said that lie should not be too exacting, knowing that

Oct. 1881.]

CARITE V. TROTOT.

Carite continues the plantation at his own expense, that everything predicted a good crop, and notwithstanding the depreciation in the value of real estate, the plantation was adequate
security for the mortgage to Clement.
On Feb. 10, 1873, Neal and McIntyre, citizens of Kentucky,
commenced a proceeding in the Circuit Court for the sequestration of ten mules on the plantation, on which they as vendors
claimed to have a lien and privilege for the unpaid purchasemoney, amounting to $2,150, and a writ was accordingly issued
to the marshal, requiring him to seize and take possession of
them.
On the same day, in consequence of this proceeding, Tremoulet caused executory process to issue in behalf of Clement,
and seized the mortgaged property, including the mules sought
to be subjected by Neal and McIntyre, which he claimed were
subject to the Clement mortgage, because they had become
iinmovables by destination. The plantation and property were
taken into possession by the marshal, though Carite was permitted to remain for the purpose of attending to the growing
crop, and were advertised for sale. Mr. Edward D. White,
Tremoulet's attorney, testified as follows:"During the seizure and before the sale quite a number of
the creditors of Mulor, Copponex, & Co, and Carite called on
me. To all of them I stated exactly what had been said to
Carite ; that is, that the seizure of the property had been provoked by the threatened removal of the immovables by destination ; that the property was not desired by the plaintiff ; that
he had no intention of bidding on it beyond the amount of his
claim, with costs and charges ; that Carite had been told if he
could successfully arrange with his creditors, indulgence would
be given and proceedings stopped."
On March 3, Tremoulet reported by letter to Clement the
fact of seizure and that the property was advertised for sale,
saying: " I am waiting for Mr. Carite to make our arrangements
for the sale that I shall make to his wife." The sale was had
on April 5, and on April 10 Tremoulet reported that fact by
letter to his principal, saying : " In ease the plantation would
have brought wherewith to cover your debt, capital and interest, it was understood that I would not buy the same in, but

758

CARITE

v.

TROTOT.

[Sup. Ct.

would receive the amount due you. . . . Now, I am awaiting Mr. Carite to sell the plantation back to his wife on the
terms agreed upon. It is well understood that you shall have
to bear no costs, the sale having been made only for the purpose of relieving the plantation from the embarrassments in
which Moulor had placed it." He then proceeds to explain
the reasons for the resale as proposed, and said: " Another
important reason is, that I could not do you justice in charging myself with the administration of this property at the
distance where I am. . . .In one word, I preferred in your
own interest to resell the plantation, taking all possible precautions, rather than to work the same for your account, notwithstanding the fine prospect of the present crop." Oii May
26 he reports the conclusion of his negotiations with Mrs.
Carite and the resale to her, giving the details of the purchase. He says: "I have been obliged to accept from Mrs.
Carite a smaller amount than the amount agreed upon in
order to make the sale of the immovables, and this in your
interest; it was preferable to accept these terms than to keep
the plantation and work the same for your account, at the
present price of labor. In case I should have refused to
effect an understanding with Mrs. Carite, I would not have
found a purchaser that would have taken the plantation on the
same terlms."
We see nothing in the circumstances of the case as disclosed
in this record to impeach the good faith, or affect the validity,
of this transaction. Clement had the unquestionable right to
subject to judicial sale the property, held as security for his
debt, and become its purchaser at two-thirds of its appraised
value. No one was wronged by such a procedure, although it
had the effect to disappoint every other creditor. The sale
was open and public, and there is no suggestion of any attempt
to prevent the property from bringing the best price. Every
subsequent ineunibrancer had the right and tile opportunity to
bid upon it, and, if lie chose, to buy it for himself. If lie iieglected or declined to do so, itmust be assumed that lie made
his decision in the pursuit of his own interests. The title acquired by Clement was indefeasible and absolute. No right of
redemption remained, and it was subject to no trust. He could

Oct. 1881.]

CARITE v. TROTOT.

dispose of it at his own will. If he chose so to do, he was
entirely free to convey it, on any consideration he approved, to
Mlrs. Carite ; as much so, if she was legally capable of receiving
title, as to any other person. And what he could lawfully do
with the property, after it had become his own, he could agree
to do in advance. In all this there is'nothing whatever that
touches the right of any creditor of Carite. It is a lawful end,
pursued by lawful means; and if, by reason of it, others have
sustained any loss, it is because the property was not sufficient
to pay all for which it had been pledged, or because those
interested in the security voluntarily sacrificed their own interests. In neither event is there ground for complaint. The
course of Tremoulet seems to have been dictated, as it was justified, by a wise regard to the interests of his absent principal.
It was a mere measure of self-protection, to disembarrass the
property of debt, to protect it against disorganization and
waste, justly apprehended as the result of seizures by subset
quent imortgagees and lien-holders, or hilich might have occurred, if Carite, driven to that necessity, had surrendered it
to the delays and expenses of administration and sale, in a
court of bankruptcy, We cannot perceive, in the acquisition
and disposition of the title by Clement, either an intention or
a tendency to impede or defeat the just rights of the appellee,
or any other creditor of Carite.
It is further contended, however, that the decree of separation of property between Carite and his wife is void ; that she
having no capacity, therefore, to receive and hold the title to
this plantation as separate property, it inured to the conmunity as before, and was replaced subject to the previously
existing liens in their order. It is not conceded that this consequence would result if it should be adjudged that the community had not been interrupted, for it is claimed that the sale
to Clement having necessarily destroyed the lien of all subsequent incumbrances, a conveyance to Carite himself, although
it would have made the property liable to the pre-existing
debts of the community, it could be subjected only by process,
open to general creditors by means of judgment and levy under
execution. However this may be, we proceed to examine the
grounds on which it is urged that the decree of separation of

CARITE v. TuOTOT.

[Sup. Cr.

property rendered on the petition of Mrs. Carite should be
annulled.
The first of these, and the one on which the Circuit Court
based its decree, is that the judgment was never advertised, in
violation of art. 2429, Civil Code, which provides that " the
separation of property obtained by the wife must be published
three times in the public newspapers at the farthest within
throe months after the judgment which ordered the same."
The fact that no such publication was made is not denied,
but its omission, it is insisted, does not avoid the judgment.
And such is the construction put upon this article by the Supreme Court of, Louisiana. In Taunball v. Davis (1 Mart. (La.)
N. s. 568), that court said : " It is true that by law publication
of a separation of property between husband and wife is expressly required ; but the pain of nullityis not denounced against
a neglect of such publication. It is not a prohibitive regulaotion, which might, in some instances, imply nullity. We are,
therefore, of opinion that a judgment of separation, unattended
by publication, is not ipso facto void ; but if such laches
afford any ground for annulling and declaring it inefficient, it
can only be decreed on showing fraud and injury to third parties as a consequence of omitting the publication. In the present case there is no positive testimony that the defendants have
suffered injury, resulting from the neglect to publish the decree
of separation ; nor can such injury be legally presumed from
the whole tenor of the evidence."
The authority of this case was recognized and the decision
followed in Raiford v. Thorn, 15 La. Ann. 81, decided in 1860.
We have examined Spires v. Lclf-elvy (23 id. 571), Levistones
v. Brady (11 id. 696), Bostwiclc v. Gasqut (11 La. 534), and
Jleynan v. The Sheriff, e. (27 La. Ann. 193), to which we have
been referred by counsel for the appellee, and do not find in
them anything which overrules the decisions cited above, or
that is inconsistent with them.
It is next objected that the judgment of separation of property is null, because, in violation of art. 2428, Civil Code, it
was not executed. That article reads as follows : " The separation of property, although decreed by a court of justice, is
null if it has not been executed by the payment of the rights

Oct. 1881.]

CARITE V. TROTOT.

and claims of the wife, made to appear by an authentic act, as
far as the estate of the husband can reach them, or at least by
a bonafide non-interrupted suit to obtain payment."
It will be observed that the language of this article differs
from that of art. 2429, just considered, in expressly denouncing nullity as a consequence of non-compliance with its requirements. But the nature of the execution must have relation to
the nature of the judgment, and the terms of the article manifestly refer to cases where the judgment involves the transfer
of property or the payment of money, and not the mere question of the future status of the wife, and her right, independent of her husband, separately to acquire property in her own
right. This is the view taken by the Supreme Court of Louisiana in the case of Jones v. Morgan (6 La. Ann. 630), in
which it is said that " the article of the code requiring execution to issue within a limited time after the decree of separation, under a pain of nullity, is only applicable to cases in
which there is a judgment against the husband for a sum of
money. This precaution is, no doubt, intended for the protection of those with whom the husband is in the habit of dealing.
But, in this case, the object of the action was not to recover
moneys of the wife ; it was simply to put an end to the coinmunity and then to secure to the wife and her children the
future earnings she might derive from her untiring industry."
In such a case the intent and effect of the judgment are merely
to confer upon the wife, in respect to her future acquisitions, the
fruits of her own industry, and the savings of her own economy,
the right to act separately from her husband, as though she
were sole ; and the right becomes fixed and vested by its actual
exercise. Holmes v. Barbin, 13 La. Ann. 474.
This is what is meant by what the Supreme Court of Louisiana say in ]iuse v. Yarborough (11 La. 530), that " it is not
the mere judgment of separation which renders the parties
separate of property. The judgment recognizes the necessity
for separation and judicially authorizes it; but if not followed
by a bona fide execution, it produces no effects, even between
the parties."
It is only when the judgment of separation of property is
founded on a cause, which results in the establishment of some

CARITE

v. TROTOT.

[Sup. Ct.

claim against the husband's estate susceptible of execution. 'by
some aithentic act, or by judicial process to enforce it, that a
neglect or failure to insist upon its execution is deemed conclusive evidence that it is the intention of the parties not to dissolve the community. The lawin such cases for the protection
of creditors, otherwise liable to be misled, annuls the unexecuted judgment of separation. Ifancdl v. Sterling, 1 La. Ann.
308; Longino v. Blackstone, 4 id. 513; Succession of Hearing,
28 id. 149.
The costs of the suit, which Carite was condemned to pay,
can hardly be considered any part of the judgment of separation of property, of which execution is required, and hence the
failure to attempt their collection cannot affect its validity.
In all other respects his wife assumed and exercised the right
conferred upon her by the judgment, dissolving the community between him and her, by the very transaction in question,
acquiring by purchase the title, of a plantation, which she has
since administered, not less in his lifetime than since his death,
so far as the record discloses, in her own name and right, and
has thus, in the meaning of the law, executed the judgment of
separation.
It is next objected that this judgment is void for want of
any legal ground to justify it. The grounds on which it was
prayed for, in the wife's petition, are thus stated: "Petitioner further represents that, owing to a series of
crushing misfortunes, her husband, who was heretofore possessed of considerable means and property, has lately become
hopelessly involved in debt, for the satisfaction of which all
his property is now being attached, seized, and disposed of by
his numerous creditors. That all of her husband's property
will not be sufficient to pay and satisfy the enormous debt
which is due by him. That, in consequence of the aboverecited circumstances, petitioner fears and believes that the
earnings of her separate industry may be seized by her husband's creditors, and thus be lost to herself and children ;
for which reasons petitioner is desirous of being separated in
property from her said husband."
This petition was filed Feb. 13, 1873. This was after the
writ of sequestration issued by Neal and McIntyre had been

Oct. 1881.]

CAIT

V. TROTOT.

executed, and after the seizure made by Tremoulet under his
executory process in behalf of Clement.
Article 2425, Civil Code, which it is alleged regulates this
proceeding, reads as follows : " The wife may, during the marriage, petition against the husband for a separation of property,
whenever her dowry is in danger, owing to the mismanage-ment of her husband or otherwise, or when the disorder of his
affairs induces her to believe that his estate may not be sufficient to meet her rights and claims."
An authoritative construction of this article is found in Wolf
v. Lowry, 10 La. Ann. 272. The court there say: "In Davocc
v. Darcy (6 Rob. 342), it was held that the right of the wife to
a separation of property was not limited to the cases mentioned
in art. 2399 (now 2425) of the code, and that she might obtain a separation of property when the habits and circumstances of her husband rendered it necessSry to preserve for
her family the earnings from her industry or talents. The
same question was afterwards decided in the case of Penn v.
croclcett (7 Ann. 343), when the right of the wife, which had
been made the basis of the action of separation of property,
was the value of a slave which had been given to the wife during marriage, and had been alienated by the husband. The
court reaffirmed the former decision and held that, in case of
the derangement of the husband's affairs, this was sufficient to
authorize a judgment of separation of property in favor of the
wife. After these repeated decisions we must consider the law
as settled, the question being one of the construction of statu,tory laws, involving no fundamental principles."
This doctrine, that a claim for money or property on the
part of the wife is not necessary to support a judgment of separation, was.reaffirmed in iMioc v. lIe,,medy (11 La. Ann. 525),
where the court say : " It is sufficient for a married woman to
prove that she bad the skill and industry to earn a separate
livelihood, which she had exercised, whether as a seamstress,
teacher, milliner, or (as in the case at the bar) a shopkeeper,
is not material ; she is entitled, under the humane spirit of
our jurisprudence, upon proof of this fact, accompanied by
proof of'the insolvent condition of her husband's affairs, to call
upon the court, by a judgment of separation, to protect the

CARITE v. TROTOT.

[Sup. Ct.

fruits and earnings of her separate industry from being squandered by her husband or seized by his creditors."
In Webb v. Bell (24 La. Ann. 75), a judgment of separation, on
appeal, was affirmed, notwithstanding the petition of the wife
was opposed by the husband, on the ground that there was
neither allegation nor proof that the plaintiff had, at the time
of the institution of the suit, a separate trade or industry of
any kind from which she was deriving revenue or means inuring to her own benefit. The sole ground of the judgment was
the embarrassed circumstances of the husband's affairs. The
court said: " The purpose sought by separation of property
and dissolution of community in this case seems to be to enable
the wife, by the use of her own limited means and those she
might obtain through her relatives, to earn for herself and
child a support, without having her earnings fall into the
community."
The same point was expressly decided in Meyer v. Smith
Co. (id. 153), where the only allegation in the petition,
on which the judgment was based, was that, "owing to the
insolvency of her husband, it becomes necessary for the preservation of her acquisitions, the education, maintenance, and
support of herself and family, that a dissolution of the community, &c., be decreed."
It is also objected to the judgment of separation that it
was by consent, and, therefore, null, as equivalent to a voluntary separation, made void by art. 2427, Civil Code, and that it
is not supported by evidence.
3oth these objections are met by the case of Powlis v. Cooc,
28 id. 546. In that case, as in this, the husband consented
that the case might be fixed and tried, but, as the court then
said, "that did not make it a consent judgment." And as to
the proof of the husband's insolvency, the court then say, what
may be adopted here, it " is manifest from this litigation, if
not otherwise shown."
It is also urged that the parish court had no jurisdiction to
entertain a suit for separation of property. No adjudication
to this effect by the Supreme Court of Louisiana is referred
to by counsel; while, on the contrary, it is tacitly assumed to
exist, in the case of Willis v. Ward, 30 id. 1282. Art. 87 of

Oct. 1881.]

CARITE

V. TROTOT.

of the Constitution of the State, of 1868, then in force, prescribes that parish courts " shall have exclusive jurisdiction in
original suits in all cases where the amount in dispute exceeds one hundred dollars and does not exceed five hundred
dollars." The only limitation of the jurisdiction is as to the
amount of money involved in the controversy, and has no relation to the question, where the suit is not prosecuted for the
recovery of money or money's worth.
It is finally urged that the property in controversy belongs
to the community, notwithstanding the judgment of separation.
But on the admission of the validity of the sale to Clement,
and of the judgment of separation of property, it is impossible
to maintain this position ; for, on that supposition, Clement
had the right to dispose of the title to Mrs. Carite, precisely as
to any other person capable of purchasing. The sale was made
on credit, except as to the small sum of $1,243.73, and it does
not help the contention of the counsel for the appellee on this
point to admit what he says "t h at every cent that Mrs. Carite
has paid on account of the purchase of the plantation was
simply a part of the profits of the plantation itself; " because
it is not claimed that any portion of those profits accrued prior
to the time when all the interest which Carite, or any of his
creditors, subsequent in right to Clement, ever had in the property, had been divested by the sale to him. Consequently it
is fully shown that the community had no claim to any of the
consideration paid by her for her purchase.
Upon these grounds the Circuit Court should have dismissed
the bill of the appellee for want of equity, and for this error
the decree will be reversed, and the cause remanded with
directions to render a decree dismissing the bill; and it is
So ordered.

