PACKING

COMPANY

CASES.

[Sup. Ct.,

PACKING COMPANY CASES.
PACKING COMPANY v. PROVIsION COMPANY; SAME V. BEEFCANNING. COMPANY; SAME v. SAME.
1. Reissued letters-patent No. 6370, bearing date April 6, 1875, granted to William
J. Wilson " for improvements in processes for preserving and packing
cooked meat," are void, all the elements therein described being old, and the
aggregation of them bringing out no new product, nor any old product, in a
cheaper or otherwise more advantageous way.
2. The first and third claims of reissued letters-patent No. 7923, bearing date
Oct. 23, 1877, granted to John A. Wilson "for improvement in sheet-metal

cases," are void for want of novelty.

THE first case is an appeal from the Circuit Court of

the United States for the Northern District of Illinois, and the
second and third are appeals from the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of Illinois.
By stipulation of the parties these cases were argued together as one ease.
The bills of complaint were filed by the Wilson Packing
Company, Arthur A. Libbey, Archibald McNeil, and Charles
P. Libbey, and they charge the Chicago Packing and Provision Company, the St. Louis Beef-Canning Company, and the
other defendants with the infringement of several reissued
letters-patent of the United States, of which the complainants
are the assignees and owners.
Only two of these letters are relied on. First, reissued letters-patent No. 6370, granted to William J. Wilson, dated
April 6, 1875, upon an application filed April 2, 1875, "for
improvements in processes for preserving and packing cooked
meat;" and, second, reissued letters-patent No. 7923, granted
to John A. Wilson, dated Oct. 23, 1877, upon an application
filed Oct. 15, 1877, for "improvement in sheet-metal cases."
The bills were di,5missed on final hearing, and the complainants
appealed.
The original patent to William J. Wilson bears date March
31, 1874. The specification is as follows: "Be it known that I, Win. J. Wilson, of ChiCago, in the county
of Cook, and State of Illinois, have invented certain new and useful

Oct. 1881.)

PACKING COMPANY

CASES.

improvements in processes for preserving and packing cooked
meats, and I do hereby declare that the following is a full, clear,
and exact description thereof.
"The nature of my invention consists in a process for packing
cooked meats for transportation in a compressed form, while heated
with cooking, into an air-tight package, so as to preserve the meat
in its integrity and retain all the natural juices and nutritious qualities of the meat.
"In carrying out my invention, the meat is first cooked thoroughly at a temperature of 2120 Fahrenheit, so that all the bone
and gristle can be removed, and the meat Vet retain its natural
grain and integrity. The meat is then in proper condition for
eating, and is wholesome and palatable. A measured quantity of
this cooked meat is then, while yet warm with cooking, pressed by
any suitable apparatus into a previously prepared box or case, with
sufficient force to remove the air and all superfluous moisture, and
make the meat form a solid cake. The box or case is then closed
air-tight upon the meat.
"The meat is thus packed and compressed in its natural state, that is, without disintegration or desiccation, - and it retains all
the juices and nutritious qualities of the meat, the conipression only
removing the superfluous moisture. The meat thus put up is available at all times, even when cooking is impracticable, as it is already
cooked before it is packed. It is more economical, as it is compressed and reduced in weight one-half fiom the uncooked weight,
being free from bone and gristle, and put up in a compact, portable
shape for transportation, rendering the usual expensive cooperage
unnecessary. Besides this, there is a great saving in the cost of
transportation. A barrel containing two hundred pounds uncooked
meat weighs, gross, three hundred and twenty pounds, meat, salt,
brine, and barrel, while by my process it would weigh only one
hundred and ten pounds, gross, making a saving in cost of freight
alone of nearly two-thirds.
" The box or case may be made of wood or metal, or both conbined, of any suitable form or shape, and of any desired dimensions."

The claim is thus stated :
1. The within-described process for packing cooked meats for
transportation, by compressing the same into an air-tight package,
so as to preserve the meat in its integrity, and retain all the nat-

PACKING

COMPANY

CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

ural juices and nutritious qualities of the meat, substantially as set
forth.
"2. As a new article of merchandise, cooked meat put up in solid
form, in its natural state, without disintegration or desiccation, in
hermetically sealed packages, as set forth."
The differences between the specification and claim of the
reissued and those of the original patent of William J. Wilson
are these: First, the second clause of the specification of the
reissued patent omits the words " while heated with eooling,"
contained in the corresponding clause of the original ; second,
"preferably " in the third clause of the specification is inserted
before " while yet warm with ookiny; " third, the first claim of
the reissued patent omits " while heated with cookhg," contained

in the first claim of the original patent.

In all other respects

the specifications and claims are identical. Therefore his patents are the same, except that the reissue covers the process of
packing the meat cold if preferred, while the original requires
that it shall be packed while warm with cooking.
There is nothing in either patent in regard to the boiling or
to any preliminary corning or curing of the meat.
On Oct. 26, 1880, while the cases were pending below, and
after the testimony-in-chief of the defendants had been taken,
the patentee and the complainants filed in the Patent Office
a disclaimer of the word "preferably " where inserted in the
specification of the reissued patent, and also of any process
described and claimed by which meat in any other than
a warm or heated condition is to be compressed into the
packages.
On the same day they filed a diselaimer of any interpretation or legal construction of the specification of the reissued

patent broader than is conveyed by the words, " the meat is
first cooked thoroughly by boiling it in water, so that all the,
bone and gristle can be removed and the meat yet retain its

natural grain and integrity."
The claim was thus restored to what it was originally, except in the original patent it is limited by the second disclaimer
As amended
to the packing of meat cooked by boiling.
by the disclaimers the claim of the reissued patent is as follows:

Oct. 1881.]

PACKING

COMPANY

CASES.

Fyirst, The within-described process of packing, for transportation, meats cooked by boiling, by compressing the same while
heated with cooking into an air-tight package, so as to preserve the
meat in its integrity, and retain the natural juices and nutritious
qualities of the same.
"Second, As a new article of manufacture, meat cooked by boiling, put up while heated with cooking, so as to form a solid cake
in the package inits natural state, without disintegration or desiccation, in hermetically sealed packages, as set forth."
It will be seen that the invention, after the disclaimers were
made, is a process consisting of the following elements: 1. The thorough cooking of the meat by boiling in water at
a temperature of 2120 Fahrenheit, and the removing of the
bone and gristle.
2. The pressing of the meat while warm with cooking into
a box or case with sufficient force to remove the air and superfluous moisture, so as to make the neat form a solid cake.
3. The closing of the box or case air-tight upon the meat.
It also covers the product of this process as described in the
second claim.
The defence sets up want of novelty, and avers that the process described in the reissued letters-patent of William J.
Wilson is also described in prior English, French, and American patents, which are specified, and that it was practised by
many persons whose names and residenqes are given, at various
dates prior to his application.
The specification in John A. Wilson's letters-patent declares
that the " invention relates to hermetically sealed cans used in
packing meats or other articles, and it consists in a pyramidalshaped can having rounded corners, and both ends slightly flaring to form shoulders against which the head or end pieces rest.
Figure I is a perspective view of the can. Figure 2 is a
transverse vertical section of the same, reversed.
"a represents the body of my can made in the form of a truncated pyramid with rounded corners, and with any desired number
of sides, though I prefbr to make it with four sides. Both ends of
the body are made slightly flaring so as to form interior shoulders
of offsets a, against which the heads B and C are to rest. The
edges of these heads are turned outward, as shown, a, b, and the

PACKING

COMPANY

[Sill. Ct.

CASES.

flaring edge d of the end of the can is turned over the flange b,and
the three thicknesses of metal pressed together by machinery, with
or without solder, so as to make air-tight joints."
"In packing cooked meats it is done by means of a plunger
through al aperture in the large head B, which opening is afterwards hermetically sealed by means of a cap or plate 1).
"The can is to be opened at the larger end at or near the
sh1oulder a by means of a suitable can-opener, so that when the can
is reversed a slight tap on the smaller head C will cause the
solidly packed meat to slide out in one piece, so as to be readily
sliced as desired."
Fiq .1.

- g.2.
_i D

,b

-0

The claims which are in controversy in this case are the
first and third, which are as follows :-'
1 A can for packing food, hermetically sealed, and constructed of
pyramidali form, with rounded corners, and offet ends to support
the heads, said heads being secured as shown and described."
113. An improved article of manufacture, solid meat compressed
and secured within a pyramidal case or can, so that said ean forms
a solid mould frthe meat,and permits its discharge as a solid cake,
substantially as described."
'by
bir.
Theeases were argued

William
sh

ord and
enoy Cliad

Mr. John N. Jewett for the appellants, and by Mr. Lewis L.
C'oburn and Mr. John W. Noble for the appellees.
MR. JUSTICE WOODS, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The patent granted to William J. Wilson does not specify

Oct. 1881.]

PACKING COMPANY

CASES.

what kind of box or case was required, nor what kind of meat
was to be used in its processes, whether corned or fresh, nor in
what manner or by what process it was to be compacted in the
case or box, provided sufficient force was used to remove the
air and all superfluous moisture and make the meat form a
solid cake, nor the degree of warmth necessary in the meat
when it was put in the case or box. Neither does it state the
method by which the case is to be sealed up. It is simply required to be " closed air-tight upon the meat," the air having
first been excluded from the case by cramming the latter full
of meat.
The patent, therefore, apparently covers only the process of
cooking meat by boiling, and while it is still warm pressing it
compactly in cases and sealing it up air-tight.
The second disclaimer of Wilson is a substantial admission
that his patent only covers the process in which the boiling
of the meat is one of the elements. That is to say, any one
may pack cooked meat for transportation by compressing it
while heated with cooking into air-tight hermetically sealed
packages, so as to preserve it in its integrity and retain all
its natural juices and nutritious qualities, substantially as set
forth in the patent, and not infringe the patent, provided he
does not cook the meat by boiling. If any other method
of cooking the meat should be adopted, there would be no
infringement.
The patentee and the complainants, it appears, were induced
to make this disclaimer by the evidence introduced by the defendants in this case, especially the patent of A. S. Lyman,
dated June 22, 1869, " for an improved mode of preparing and
pressing roast meat in a condensed and concentrated form,"
and it amounts to an admission that they could not sustain
the process covered by their patent, except as applied to boiled
meats.

We are clearly of opinion that a change in the mode of
cooking the meat from broiling, roasting, or steaming to boil-

ing, all the other parts of the process remaining unchanged,
cannot be called invention, and does not entitle the party who
suggests the change to a patent for the process. " All improvement is not invention, and entitled to protection as such. Thus

PACKING

COMPANY

CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

to entitle it, it ought to be the product of some exercise of the
inventive faculties, and it must involve something more than
what is obvious to persons skilled in the art." Pearce v. Mulford, 102 U. S. 112. See also Rubber- Tip Pencil Company v.
Howard, 20 Wall. 498; Hotchciss v. Greenwood, 11 How.
248; Stimpson v. Woodman, 10 Wall. 117.
If meat cooked by roasting or steaming, and put up in a given
mode, formed a valuable article of comnerce, the cooking of
the meat in other ways, as, for instance, by boiling, would
naturally occur to any one engaged in the business of packing
such food for the market.
But we think there is nothing new in the process covered
by the patent under consideration. Clearly, all its separate
elements are old and well known, and have been long used.
This is not controverted. The evidence shows that the process of boiling meat, packing it while warm in cans, and sealing
it air-tight, had long been used before the original application
of Wilson. There is, it is true, much conflict in the evidence,
but, taken all together, it leaves no doubt in our minds that
the process of cooking meat, lobsters, and other articles of food
by boiling, and, while warm from the cooking, compacting them
in cans, which are then sealed up air-tight, was practised in
many places and for many years before his application..
Complainants, however, insist that there are two elements
in their process which, taken in connection with the others
above mentioned, form a combination never used before the

date of his patent.
The first of these is the subjecting of the cases, after they
are packed and sealed air-tight, to what is known as the Appert
process. This consists of placing in hot water the cans, after
they have been filled and sealed up, and thereby heatinig them.
They are then removed and punctured, and the heated air and
gases il the cans are allowed to escape. The puncture is
immediately closed by a drop of solder.
The contention is that all this is made a part of the process
covered by the Wilson patent, by the description of the new
article of merchandise covered by the second claim as "cooked

meat" " in hermetically sealed packages." It is insisted that
the term " hermetically sealed packages " implies among those

Oct. 1881.]

PACKING COMPANY

CASES.

dealing in canned goods, that the packages have been subjected
to the Appert process.
We think that this is an unwarrantable stretch of the meaning of that claim. The article of merchandise which it covers
is produced by the process disclosed by the specification and
first claim. The second claim expressly states that it covers
cooked meat put up in solid form, &c., " in hermetically sealed
packages, as set forth."
Recurring to the specification and first claim, we are not left
in doubt about what, as there set forth, is the process of sealing
the cases or cans hermetically. The invention is declared to
consist in a process for packing cooked meats into an air-tight
A
package. The method of doing this is thus described
measured quantity of this cooked meat is, while yet warm with
cooking, pressed by any suitable apparatus into a previously
prepared box or case with sufficient force to remove the air and
all superfluous moisture and make the meat form a solid cake.
The box or case is then closed air-tight upon the meat." The
process is simply to exclude the air from the case by filling it
compactly with cooked meat still warm, so that the cover, when
applied, will rest on the meat, and then closing the case by fitting on the cover air-tight.
There is no suggestion here of anything further to be done
to make the package a hermetically sealed one. The process
described leaves it hermetically sealed.. There is no hint that
the Appert process is to be subsequently applied as a part of
the process covered by the patent. On the contrary, that idea
is excluded by the terms of the second claim, " hermetically
sealed, as set forth."
It is further contended by the appellants that the process disclosed by the patent includes the cooking of the meat to be
canned by plunging it into water already heated to the boilingpoint. That is, the process of cooking is commenced by placing
the meat in water already heated up to 212' Fahrenheit. By
this method of cooking, it is said that the meat is preserved in
its integrity, and all its natural juices and nutritious qualities
are retained.
We think that the plan of beginning this process of cooking,
by putting the meat in water already heated to the boiling-

PACKING COMPANY

CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

point, is not set forth in the specification or claims. The conditions that they prescribe would just as well be filled by
placing the meat in cold water which is then heated to the
boiling-point, and allowing the meat to remain in it until cooked
thoroughly. No person, on reading them, could extract the idea
that there was any advantage to be gained by heating the water
to the boiling-point before placing the meat in it to be cooked,
or that any such method was in the mind of the inventor.
This part of the process is c]early an afterthought, and not
intended by him to be covered by his patent when he applied
for it. It is evident that the part now under consideration is
nowhere described in the specification in full, clear, and exact
terms, as required by law. On the contrary, it is not described
at all.
The Appert process, and the cooking of meats by plunging
them into water already heated to the boiling-point, may be of
great advantage to the canned meats put up by the complainants, and their alleged superiority to the products of other parties may be attributed to these practices. But the trouble with
complainants' case is that these elements are not included in
the process disclosed by the patent which they allege is infringed by the defendants.
Our conclusion is, therefore, that there is nothing new in
the process described in the patent. All the elements of
the process are old. They are merely aggregated, and the
aggregation brings out no new product, nor does it bring
out any old product in a cheaper or otherwise more advantageous way. This disposes of the first claim of the patent
under consideration.
If that claim cannot stand, it follows
that the second claim, which is for the product made by the
employment of the process described in the first claim, is also
invalid.
We are of opinion, therefore, that the patent is void for want
of invention and for want of novelty in the process described
therein.
We shall next consider that branch of the case which rests
on the letters-patent to Jlohn A. Wilson for improvements in
metallic cans for containing cooked meats.
The defences set up to this branch of complainants' case are,

Oct. 1881.]

PACKING COMPANY

CASES.

that the devices covered by the patent are not new, and that
the defendants do not infringe.
The evidence clearly shows that none of the defendants use
cans " with offset ends to support the heads, said heads being
secured as shown and described" in the patent. The cans
which they use are made by turning a flange of the head down
over the outside of the shell of the can, and fastening the head
in place with solder. This method of fastening the heads and
bottoms of the cans was practised by Gibbie and Perl before
the date of Wilson's application for his patent. It was also
described in the fifth addition of the French patent of Emile
Peltier, dated April 1, 1859.
All, therefore, that is left to consider is whether the shape
of the can described in the patent is new, and whether the
defendants use it.
The shape of the can described in the patent is pyramidal,
with round corners, and with four or more sides.
It is admitted on the record by counsel for the complainants
that, prior to the date of the Wilson patents, conical tin ca-ns
were made and used for canning alimentary substances, and
sealed air-tight.
If it be conceded that the change of a conical can to a pyramidal can, with rounded corners, involves invention, the complainants are met with distinct and unequivocal evidence that
cans used for containing preserved food, and closed air-tight,
having four or more sides and pyramidal in form, with rounded
corners, were mentioned in the fifth addition to the patent of
Emile Peltier, before referred to, and that the machinery for
making them was therein described.
The cans used by the defendant the St. Louis Beef-Packing
Company, and by the defendants Robert I). Hunter and others,
and the Chicago Packing and Provision Company, are all included in the descriptions of the Peltier patent. The defence
of want of novelty set up by the defendants against the first
claim of the patent must therefore prevail.
What las been said leaves nothing for the third claim of the
patent to rest on.
There is nothing new either in the shape, construction, or
material of his cans. There is in the record abundant evidence

CORBIN V. VAN

BRUNT.

[Sup. Ct.

that, long before the date of his patent, cooked meat was packed
in cans, so that they served as a mould for the meat, and the
meat formed a solid cake. The use of a pyramidal can, which
was old, for the purpose of receiving the meat cake, which was
also old, involved no invention.
The use of vessels with flaring sides, as receptacles and
moulds for edible substances, is as old as the art of cookery.
Our conclusion is that both the first and third claims of the
patent are void for want of novelty.
The result of the views expressed is that the action of the
court below dismissing the bills of complaint was right.
Decrees affirmed.
NOTE. -

Packing Coq(mpal v. Clapp, appeal from the Circuit Court of the

United States for the Northern District of Illinois, was argued at the same time
with the cases disposed of in the foregoing opinion, and by the same counsel.
It involved the validity of both claims of the reissued patent of William J.
Wilson, and the first and third claims of the reissued patent of John A.
Wilson. Upon these questions the opinions of the judges of the court below
were divided, and a decree dismissing the bill was thereupon entered in accordance with the opinion of the presiding judge.
MR. JUSTICE WOODS, in giving the opinion of the court, remarked, that the

views expressed in the foregoing cases disposed of this case.

Decree afirmed.

CORBIN V. VAN BRUNT.
Where, in a suit in a State court for the recovery of lands, and damages for the
detention of them, the whole controversy, so far as the title to them is concerned, is between the plaintiff, a citizen of the State where the suit is brought,
and such of the defendants as are citizens of that State; and the case of the
other defendants is a mere adjunct of the principal dispute, the pleadings presenting no separate claim or question. Leld, that under the act of March 8,
1875, c. 137, the case is not removable to"the Circuit Court.

El1oll to the Circuit Court of the United States for the

Eastern District of New York.
The case is fully stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Randall Iagner for the plaintiffs in error.
Mr.J. J. AJe-Ellone and Mr. Joseph K. I/MkfImmon for the
defendants in error.

