342

OTTAWA v. NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

another ground upon which the claim of the plaintiffs must be
denied.

We have ruled that, when descent was cast, neither of the
plaintiffs had capacity to inherit, and if, as contended, the
Murta children were also barred by the fact that their respective alien mothers were then living, it would result, as counsel
concede, that the property escheated to the State immediately
upon the death of Edward Sullivan. This upon the ground
that the legal title could not be in abeyance. 2 Fearne, 20.
In that contingency, neither the plaintiffs nor the defendants
could claim any interest in the property, by virtue of the act of
1872. The Constitution of Missouri forbids the General Assembly from passing any law retrospective in its operation. Art.
1, sect. 28. And if that inhibition does not prevent the State
from releasing, under the authority of a statute and for the
benefit of individuals, any right of property it may have
acquired by escheat, it is sufficient to say that the act of 1872
contains no language clearly indicating an intention to make it
retrospective. It is, consequently, applicable alone to future
acquisitions by aliens of real estate in Missouri.
Judgment affirmed.

OTTAWA V.

NATIONAL

BANK.

1. Hackcett v. Ottawa (99 U. S. 86) cited, and the doctrines therein set forth
reaffirmed.
2. Municipal bonds in Illinois, payable to a person therein named or bearer,
are transferable by delivery without indorsement, and the bolder may sue
in his own name to recover their contents.
3. Where, without express legislative authority, they are payable at a place in
another State, qucere, What law should govern in determining the rights of
the holder who claims them by delivery only.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. C. B. Lawrence for the plaintiff in error.

Mr. G. S. -Eldredgefor the defendant in error.

Oct. 1881.]

OTTAWA

v. NATIONAL

BANK.

MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

The bonds in suit constitute a portion of the issue of $60,000
referred to in Ifaclett v. Ottawa, 99 U. S. 86. Like those
held by Hackett, they were purchased before maturity, and
without notice of any circumstances or facts impeaching their
validity.
As in that case, so here, the bonds recite that they are
issued in virtue of the power conferred by the charter of the
city, upon its council, - the majority of voters, attending at an
borrow money on its
election for that purpose, assenting, -to
credit and to issue bonds, pledging its revenue for the payment
thereof; and also, in pursuance of two ordinances of the city
council, one, passed June 15, 1869, entitled " An Ordinance to
provide for a loan for municipal purposes," duly ratified by
popular vote, and the other, entitled " An Ordinance to carry
into effect the ordinance of June 15, 1869, entitled IAn OrdiThe
nance to provide for a loan for municipal purposes.'"
defence in the Hackett case was, that the bonds were not issued to effect a loan for municipal purposes, but were issued
and delivered as a donation to one Cushman or to the Ottawa
Manufacturing Company, a private corporation, to be used in
aid of a merely private enterprise, and not for legitimate municipal purposes. Upon that ground, it was contended that
they were void for the want of authority to issue them.
Waiving any direct decision of the question, much elaborated
by counsel, as to what, under the Constitution of the State, as
interpreted by the Supreme Court of Illinois in numerous
cases, is to be regarded as a municipal or corporate purpose,
for which the city can lawfully exercise the power of borrowing money and issuing bonds, we there adjudged the defence
to be insufficient, for these reasons: The city council had
power, the voters consenting, to issue negotiable securities for
certain municipal purposes; if the purchaser, under some circumstances, would have been bound to take notice of the provisions of the ordinances whose titles were recited in the bonds,
he was relieved from any responsibility or duty in that regard
by reason of the representation, upon time face of the bonds,
that the ordinances provided for a loan for municipal purposes; such a representation, by the constittuted authorities of

OTTAWA

V. NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

the city, would naturally avert suspicion of bad faith upon
their part, and induce purchasers to omit an examination of
the ordinances themselves; and, consequently, the city was
estopped, as against a bona fide holder for value, to say that
the bonds were not issued for legitimate or proper municipal
or corporate purposes. Upon these grounds, the main defence
in this suit must, also, be adjudged insufficient.
There is, however, one question raised in this case which
was not made or determined in Haelett v. Ottawa. The bonds
in suit are made payable at the St. Nicholas National Bank in
the city of New York to W. I. W. Cushman or bearer, and,
without his written assignment or indorsement, were taken by
the First National Bank of Portsmouth, New Hampshire, the
defendant in error. The city paid the interest maturing on
the second days of August, 1870 and 1871.
The contention of counsel is that an assignment or indorsement of ihe bonds by the payee named therein, although they
are also made payable to bearer, is, by the laws of Illinois,
where the original contract ovas made, a prerequisite to pass
the legal title, and to authorize a suit by the holder in his own
name. This precise question arose in Roberts v. Bolles (101
U. S. 119), involving the validity of certain municipal bonds,
payable to a railroad company or bearer, and on which there
appeared no assignment or indorsement by the company.
Upon examination of the decisions of the Supreme Court of
Illinois, we there reached the conclusion that, by the repeated
adjudications of that learned tribunal, municipal bonds payable
to bearer, or to some named person or bearer, were excepted
from the rule announced in Jilborn v. Artus (4 Ill. 344) and
Roosa v. Crist (17 id. 450), in which it was, in effect, held that
notes payable to a person or bearer could not be transferred or
assigned by delivery only, so as to authorize the holder to sue
in his own name.
Counsel in the present case insist that our ruling in Roberts
v. Bolles resulted from a misapprehension of the settled course
of decisions in the State court ; and we are asked to reconsider
the question in connection with some cases in that court to
which our attention was not then called. Those specially relied on to establish the error of our conclusion in that case are

Oct. 1881.]

OTTAWA v. NATIONAL BANK.

Garvin v. Wiswell, 83 Ill. 215, and Turner v. Peoria
Springfield Railroad Co., 95 id. 134.
The first of those cases related to a county order executed
by a board of supervisors, directing the treasurer of the county,
on a day named, to " pay to John Murphy or bearer" a certain
sum " out of the funds appropriated for bounties to volunteers,
with interest at the rate of eight per cent per annum from this
(late, upon the presentation of the annexed coupons," - an
instrument of writing not negotiable, in the sense of the law
merchant, so as to exclude defences or evidence of invalidity,
even when held by a bona fide purchase'.
Tall v. County of
Monroe, 103 U. S. 74.
The case in 95 Ill. relates to a certificate of indebtedness
issued by a receiver appointed in a suit against a railroad company, and which certificate, the State court expressly held, did
not possess the qualities of negotiable or commercial paper.
It also appears, in that case, that the certificate was made payable to a named person "or bearer," when the order of court,
printed thereon, directed it to be made payable to such person
"or order."
The language of those two cases must be construed in connection with the particular kind of instrument to which the
court referred. While in each may be found general statements which seem to justify the position of counsel, we do not
understand those cases to determine anything necessarily inconsistent with the conclusion reached in Roberts v. Bolles,
viz. that by the law of Illinois municipal bonds, whethe" payable to bearer, or to some person or bearer, are negotiable by
delivery, so that the holder, even in the courts of Illinois, can
sue thereon in his own name, although they have not been previously assighed or indorsed by the named payee.
Notwithstanding the criticism by counsel of the opinion in
Johnson v. County qf Star (24 Ill. 75), we are not satisfied
that the Supreme Court of Illinois has intended, inany subsequent case, to qualify what was there said by Walker, J., in
reference to municipal bonds and coupons issued to railroad
companies: "It seems to be the well-settled doctrine that
State, county, city, and other bonds and public securities of
this character are negotiable by delivery only, without in-

OTTAWA v. NATIONAL

BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

dorsement, in the same manner as bank-bills, especially when
they are payable to bearer." In that case, the coupon was
not payable either to order or to bearer, but the promise was
to pay the amount named " on this coupon." The court ruled
that the holder of the coupon could sue and recover in his own
name.

The bonds in suit, it will be observed, are payable at a bank
in New York. According to the general rules of commercial
law, as recognized in that State, the holder of negotiable securities, payable to a named person or bearer, whether they are
indorsed or not by such payee, acquires, by delivery merely,
the legal title, and the consequent right to sue thereon in his
own name. 3 Kent, Com. 78; Brush v. Administrators of
Reeves, 3 Johns. (N. Y.) 439; Dean v..Hall, 117 Wend. (N Y.)
214. Whether the nature and extent of the rights acquired
by the bank are determinable by the law of New York, the
place of performance, or whether the general rule that a contract is to be expounded by the law of the place where it is to
be executed (6 Pet. 200; 13 id. 77; 1 How. 169), can be applied to an Illinois municipal corporation whose bonds, without express legislative authority, have been made payable
elsewhere than at its own treasury (19 Ill. 406; 22 id. 151 ;
24 id. 91; 31 id. 531; 68 id. 535), are questions which need
not be now determined. It is sufficient in this case to say that
the ground first alluded to, upon which the plaintiff denies
the right of the bank, the holder for value of its bonds, to sue
in its own name, cannot be maintained.
Judgment affirmed.

