Oct. 1881.]

DAVENPORT V. COUNTY

op

DODGE.

DAVENPOIT V. COUNTY OF DODGE.
1. Where a precinct in an organized county in Nebraska voted, pursuant to
the statute of that State approved Feb. 15, 1860, to aid a work of internal
improvement, and bonds were, as in this cage, issued therefor by the county
commissioners (infra, p. 238), - leld, that, to enforce payment, the holder
of them must sue the county, and judgment, if rendered in his favor, will be
in form against it, and be collected by a tax upon the taxable property of
the precinct.
2. The courts of the United States cannot by mandamus compel the collection
of a tax to pay such bonds until a judgment upon them shall be obtained.
County ef Greene v. Daniel (102 U. S. 187) cited on this point and approved.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Nebraska.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. W. I.

Mnger and Il'.

F. Walceley for the plaintiff in

error.
Mr. William Marshall for the defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
By a statute of Nebraska, passed in 1869, "to enable counties, cities, towns, and precincts to borrow money on their
bonds, or to issue bonds to aid in the, construction or completion of works of internal improvement in this State, and to
legalize bonds already issued for such piurposes," the legal
voters of counties and cities were authorized to vote bonds for
such purposes, and upon a favorable vote, the county commissioners in case of a county, and the city council in case of a
city, were to issue the bonds as voted, which were to " continue
a subsisting liability against said city or county" until paid.
It was further made the duty of the proper officer annually to
cause to be levied, collected, and paid over to the holders of
such bonds "a special tax on all taxable property within said
county or city, sufficient to pay " the interest and principal as
they fell due. Sects. 6 and 7 of the act are as follows: " SECT. 6. Any county or city which shall have issued its bonds
in pursuance of this act, shall be estopped friom pleading want, of
consideration therefor, and the proper officers of such county or

DAVENPORT V. COUNTY or DODGE.

[Sup. Ct.

city may be compelled, by mandamuts or otherwise, to levy the tax
herein provided to pay the same.
" SECT. 7. Any precinct, in any organized county of this State,
shall have the privilege of voting to aid works of internal improvement, and be entitled to all the privileges conferred upon counties
and cities by the provisions of this act; and in such case the precinct election shall be governed in the same manner as is provided
in this act, so far as the same is applicable, and the county commissioners shall issue special bonds for such precinct, and the tax
to pay the same shall be levied upon the property within the bounds
of such precinct. Stch precinct bonds shall be the same as other
bonds, but shall contain a statement showing the special nature of
such bonds." General Statutes of Neb. 448.
Under the authority of sect. 2 bonds were issued by the
county commissioners of Dodge County in the following form:
"UNITED

STATES

STATE

OFr AMERICA,

OF NEBRASKA.

"It is hereby certified that Fremont precinct, in the county of
Dodge, in the State of Nebraska, is indebted unto the bearer in the
sum of one thousand dollars, payable on or before twenty years
after date, with interest at the rate of ten per cent per annum
from date. Interest payable annually on the presentation of the
proper coupons hereto annexed. Principal payable at the office
of the county treasurer, in Fremont, Dodge County, Nebraska;
interest payable at the Ocean National Bank, in the city of New
York.
"This bond is one of a series issued in pursuance of and in accordance with a vote of the electors of said Fremont precinct at a
special election held on the 11th day of November, 1870, at which
time the following proposition was submitted :"Shall the county commissioners of Dodge County, Nebraska,
issue their special bonds on Fremont precinct, in said county, to
the amount not to exceed fifty thousand dollars, to be expended
and appropriated by the county commissioners, or as much thereof
as is necessary, in building a wagon-bridge across the Platte River,
in said precinct; said bonds to be made payable on or before twenty
years after date, bearing interest at the rate of ten per cent per
annum, payable annually? Which proposition was duly elected,
adopted, and accepted by a majority of the electors of'said precinct
voting in favor of the proposition.

Oct. 1881.]

DAVENPORT V. COUNTY OF DODGE.

"And whereas the Smith Bridge Company, of Toledo, Ohio, have
entered into a contract with said county commissioners to furnish
the necessary materials, and to build and construct said bridge
referred to in the foregoing proposition
"Wherefbre this bond, with others, is issued in pursuance thereof,
as well as under the provision of an act of the legislature of the
State of Nebraska, approved February 15th, 1869, entitled 'An
Act to enable counties, cities, and precincts to borrow money on
their bonds, to aid in the construction or completion of works of
internal improvement in this State, and to legalize bonds already
issued for such purpose.'
"In witness whereof we, the said county commissioners of said
Dodge County, have hereunto set our hands, this first day of September, A. D. 1871.
"GEuOnGEiF. BLANCHARD,
"A. C. BRIGGs,
"JOHN P. EATON,
County Commissioners.
"Attest:
•[SEAL.]

"A. G.

BRUGH, County Clerk."

Default having been made in the- payment of sundry
coupons attached to these bonds, Davenport, the plaintiff in
error, brought suit against the county for the recovery thereof,
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Nebraska. The petition set forth the issue of the bonds according to the facts, and prayed judgment " for the sum of
eight hundred and fifty dollars and costs of suit, said judgment to be collected by a tax upon the taxable property within
the territory comprising said. Fremont precinct at the time
said bonds were voted and issued."
The county demurred
to the petition, and at the hearing the following questions
arose : " 1. Whether upon the allegations of the amended petition
filed in said court on the twelfth day of May, 1881, the said
county of Dodge is liable to a suit in which judgment can be
rendered against Said county of Dodge, on the bonds and
coupons therein declared upon and set out.
"2. Whether upon the allegations of the said petition the
plaintiff is entitled to recover a judgment in form against the
county of Dodge, to be satisfied or collected only by levy of

DAVENPORT V. COUNTY OF DODGE.

[Sup. Ct.

a tax on the taxable property in Fremont precinct, as prayed
for in said petition."
Upon these questions the opinions of the circuit justice and
district judge holding the court were opposed, and that disagreement has been duly certified here. The opinion of the
circuit justice being that the questions should be answered in
the negative, the demurrer was sustained and judgment given
for the defendant. From that judgment this writ of error has
been brought, and the case is now here for determination on
the certificate of division.
When county bonds are issued under the statute in question,
it is expressly provided that they shall constitute a debt
against the county, to be paid by the levy and collection of
taxes on all the taxable property within the county. If aid
is voted by a precinct, bonds also are to be issued, differing
only from county bonds in that they are to be paid from taxes
levied on property within a precinct. " As to the several
duties of the county commissioners respecting them," says the
Supreme Court of Nebraska, in State v. Thorne (9 Neb.
458, 461), "the law makes no distinction whatever between
precinct and county bonds. They must issue both, and when
issued it is their duty to keep a record of the kinds and
amounts, as well as the times and places of payment, and
make provisions therefor, as the statute directs. In the ease
of precinct bonds the means of payment must be raised by a
tax levied by the commissioners ' upon the property within the
bounds of such precinct,' which must be collected in the same
manner as is the ordinary county revenue, and through the
agency 6f the county treasurer, whose only duty in connection
with the fund arising therefrom, when collected, is to hold it
subject to the order of the county commissioners directing its
application to the object for which it was intended. As before stated, the management of this sort of precinct indebtedness is made to conform to that of counties of like character.
The sole distinction is that it concerns a distinct portion only
instead of the whole body of the county. The money with
which to meet the obligations of a precinct is raised and paid
out with the same formality, and through precisely the same
agencies, as are the ordinary county funds, and, except when

Oct. 1881.]

DAVENPOT

V. COUNTY

OF DOD)GE.

'there is some special provision of statute authorizing it, payment therefrom can be legally made only on ' warrants by the
county commissioners according to law.'"
A bond implies an obligor bound to do what it is agreed shall
be done. Precincts in Nebraska are but political subdivisions
of a county. They have no corporate existence, and cannot
contract or be contracted with. They have no corporate officers, and can neither sue nor be sued. Certain officers are
elected by the voters of precincts for political, administrative,
and judicial purposes, but they are in no sense the representatives of the people of the Territory as a intiicipality. State
v. Dodge County, 10 Neb. 20. Precincts are governed by the
county commissioners, the governing board of the county, and
by the appropriate officers of the State. Their relation to a
county is like that of a ward to a city. Having no corporate
existence, no separate municipal authority, they cannot, says
again the Supreme Court of the State, in the case last cited,
" enter into contracts directly or indirectly, nor assume obligations which a court might be called on to enforce." Hence,
the precinct cannot become the obligor of precinct bonds,
and we think it follows that the county, which does have
a corporate existence, and can contract and be contracted
with, and upon whose officers is imposed the duty not only
of issuing the bonds, but of providing for the payment of
them, is the political entity bound by the obligation and
charged with the debt created thereby. The only difference
between the two kinds of debt is, that in one all the taxable
property of the county is charged with its payment, and in the
other only a part. In both the mandarnus to enforce the levy
and collection of the necessary taxes lies to the proper officers
of the county alone. This remedy is expressly provided for,
and thus the presumption that might otherwise arise of an intention to erect the precinct into a corporation for the purpose
of these obligations, because, without it, the bonds could not
be enforced, is rebutted. We think, therefore, that the special bonds which the county commissioners are to issue for the
precincts are, in legal effcct, the special bonds of the county
payable out of a special fund to be raised in a special way.
Although the form of expression in the Nebraska statute
VOL. XV.

16

DAVENPORT V. COUNTY OF DODGE.

[Sup. Ct.

is somewhat different from that in Missouri, which we were
called on to consider in County of (ass v. Johnston (95 U. S.
360), we think the legal effect of it is the same. In Missouri
it was provided that the bonds should be in the name of the
county; but in Nebraska there can be no bond except it be of
the county, and as a bond is to be made, it necessarily follows
that the county must make it. In express terms it is stated
that precinct bonds shall be the same as other bonds, that is
to say, county bonds, but must contain a statement of their
special nature, which confines the area of taxable property to
a part rather than the whole of the county.
If there is nothing else in the case, therefore, we think it
comes within County of (ass v. Johnston (supra), and that an
action at law will lie in the courts of the United States against
the county for the recovery of the special judgment asked for.
County Commissioners v. Ohandler (96 U. S. 205) was upon
coupons attached to some of this same issue of bonds. Judgment had been rendered against the county in the court below,
and that judgment was affirmed here. No one seemed to think

then that the defence now relied on was good, for it was not
mentioned in this court or below. The defence then made related only to the authority of a precinct to vote aid for the
building of a toll-bridge.
It is contended, however, that as the statute which authorizes the creation of the liability provides a special remedy for
its enforcement, this suit cannot be maintained. The remedy
provided is by mandamus to compel the proper officers to levy
the necessary tax. In County qf Greene v. Daniel (102 U. S.
187), a case similar to this in many of its features, we said a
suit to get judgment on bonds or coupons was part of the
necessary machinery which the courts of the United States
must use in enforcing this remedy, and that the jurisdiction of
those courts is not to be ousted simply because in the courts of
the State the mandamus could be granted without a judgment.
In the State courts the liability may, as we understand the
case of State v. Dodge County (supra), be determined in the
proceedings for the mandamus. Such is not, however, the rule
in the courts of the United States, where the writ of mandamus is onlygranted in aid of an existing jurisdiction. In those

Oct. 1881.]

DAVENPORT V. COUNTY OF DODGE.

courts the judgment at law is necessary to support the writ,
which is in the nature of an execution to carry the judgment
into effect. County of Greene v. Daniel, supra; Graham v.
Norton, 15 Wall. 427; Bath County v. Amy, 13 id. 244. As
the judgment asked for is special, and will only entitle the
plaintiff to payment through the instrumentality of the special
tax to be levied, the suit as it now stands is in reality only a
way of getting the remedy the statute provides. The only
execution that can issue on the judgment will be the mandam us.
The Supreme Court of the State, in State v. Dodge County
(supra), declined to issue a mandamus for the levy of taxes
to pay a judgment in the Circuit Court of the United States
on some of the coupons attached to this class of bonds, and in
the opinion declared the judgment a nullity ; but this we must
understand to mean a nullity as the foundation of any proceedings in that court for its enforcement. To enable the
courts of the United States to afford the remedy which the
law has specially provided, such a judgment is a necessary preliminary. In fact, a judgment is but one of the steps in the
proceeding to obtain the mandamus. The statute has given a
remedy by mandamus, but has not undertaken to regulate the
process by which it is to be secured. That depends on the
practice established in the several tribunals from which it is
to be obtained. The practice in the State courts requires one
mode of proceeding, that in the courts of the United States
another; but the result is the same in both, to wit, the order
for the levy and collection of the requisite tax.
It follows that each of the questions certified must be answered in the affirmative.
Judgment reversed, and cause remanded for further proceedings in accordance with this opinion.

