Oct. 1881.]

ROOT

V. RAILWAY

CO.

The ruling of the court rejecting the original statement
signed by the collector, showing the amounts collected and the
amounts abated as uncollectible during the month, and those
collected on May 18, 1867, was likewise erroneous for the same
reasons.
For these errors the judgment of the Circuit Court is reversed, with instructions to grant a new trial; and it is
So ordered.

ROOT v.

RAILWAY

COMPANY.

A., to whom had been assigned letters-patent, filed, after the expiration of them,
which took place July 6, 1873, his bill against B., charging that the latter had
during their term infringed them by using the patented invention, whereby
he realized gains, profits, and savings, which lie should be compelled to account for and pay to the complainant. The bill was, on demurrer, dismissed.
Held, that the decree below is proper, the bill being merely for an account
of profits and damages against an infringer, and it not appearing from the
case thereby made that any ground of equitable jurisdiction exists, or that

A. has not a complete remedy at law whereby danmages for the wrongs consplained of can be recovered.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Northern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. Albert I1. Walker for the appellant.
Mr. George Payson for the appellee.
delivered the opinion of the court.
Thomas Sayles, as assignee of the letters-patent originally
granted to Henry Tanner for an improvement in railroad car
brakes, dated July 6, 1852, and which, on July 5, 1866, were
renewed and extended for the additional term of seven years,
which expired July 6, 1873, filed his bill in the court below on
Dec. 9, 1878, against the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern
Railway Company. He avers that, by virtue of the assignments to him, he was invested with all rights of action for infringeients of the patent which had occurred, and particularly
MR. JUSTICE MATTHEWS

ROOT v. RAILWAY CO.

[Sup. Ct.

those of which it was alleged the defendant had been guilty
from Aug. 6, 1869, to July 6, 1873, having, as is averred, duning that period, used upon its railroad cars the patented brakes,
but how many, the bill states, the complainant is ignorant and
cannot set forth, but avers that the number so used was large,
and that defendant had derived, received, and realized great
gains and profits therefrom, but to what amount he is ignorant
and cannot set forth.
The prayer of the bill is that the defendant may be compelled to account for and pay to the complainant all the gains,
profits, and savings which it derived, received, or realized from
or by reason of the use of said brakes.
To this bill a general demurrer was filed, alleging, as grounds
thereof, that the bill does not contain any matter of equity on
which the court could grant any relief, and that the complainant is not entitled to the relief prayed for, because he had a
plain, adequate, and complete remedy at law, and also because
it appeared on the face of the bill that the causes of complaint
were barred by the Statutes of Limitation both of the United
States and of the State of Illinois.
This demurrer was sustained and the bill dismissed. The
decree of the Circuit Court was brought here for review.
Sayles having died, Charles T. Root was, as his executor, substituted in this court as the appellant.
The propositions mainly relied upon by the appellee in support of the decree, are, First, That after the expiration of a patent, equity has no
jurisdiction to entertain a bill, merely for an account and the
recovery of the profits of an infringer, during its existence, the
remedy being at law for damages; and,
Second, That, even if, in certain cases, such a jurisdiction
exists, the present does not fall within it.
On the other hand, it is contended on the part of the appellant that, in cases for the enforcement of the rights of patentees, resort may be had, as matter of right, to a court of
equity, as a distinct head of its jurisdiction, for the mere purpose of establishing an infringement and ascertaining and recovering the profits of the infringer, upon the independent
equity that he is for that purpose a trustee of his gains for the

Oct. 1881.]

ROOT v.

RAILWAY CO.

use of the true owner of the patent and liable to account as
such. In support of this contention, we are referred by his
counsel to numerous decisions of the Circuit Courts, many of
which, it is claimed, are directly upon the point, and to several
cases in this court, in which, it is alleged, the same doctrine
is either virtually decided or assumned; which, it is further
argued, though not supported by the modern decisions of the
English ehancery, is found in its earlier precedents.
An examination of the practice and opinions of the Circuit
Courts undoubtedly shows much diversity, incapable of reconciliation, and makes it necessary, as far as it can be done, by
a deliberate judgment of this court, to remove the question out
of its present uncertainty, by a settlement upon some basis of
principle, in harmony with our system of equity jurisprudence,
developed and modified by l6gislation. To effect this satisfactorily and intelligently, it will be necessary to review the
Course of legislation, and judicial decision in this court, so far
as it bears upon the question from the beginning.
Prior to the passage of the act of Feb. 15, 1819, c. 19 (3 Stat.
481), Congress had passed three laws, in execution of the
power conferred by the Constitution itself, and in furtherance of the policy thereby indicated, to secure to inventors
an exclusive right of property in their inventions. The first
of them, the act of April 10, 1790, c. 7 (1 Stat. 109), gave
as a remedy for its violation an action at law upon the case
for damages, and forfeited the infringing article. The next
was the act of Feb. 21, 1793, c. 11 (1 Stat. 318), which fixed
the rule and measure of damages recoverable in an action at
law upon the act at three times the price at which the patentee
had usually sold or licensed to other persons the nse of the invention. This was changed by the act of April 17, 1800, c. 25
(2 Stat. 37), to three times the actual damage sustained by
the patentee by reason of the infringement. By neither of
these acts, however, was any jurisdiction conferred upon the
courts of the United States in equity. In Livingston v. Van
Ingen (1 Paine, 45), Mr. Justice Livingston held that to vest
such jurisdiction by reason of the subject-matter, as a case
arising under the laws of the United States, to be 'exercised
in controversies between parties, without regard to their citi-

ROOT V. RAILWAY CO.

[Sup. Ot.

zenship, it required the express authority of an act of Congress; and the parties to that suit being citizens of New York,
the bill was dismissed. The controversy was thereupon renewed in the courts of that State; and the Chancellor having
refused the injunction asked for, it was brought by appeal into
the court for the correction of errors. 9 Johns. (N. Y.) 507.
It was there objected that the right in question rested upon
statute alone, which prescribed remedies at law for its violation, which, it must be deemed, were intended to be exclusive.
But the decision affirmed the jurisdiction. "The principle
is," said Kent, C. J. (p. 587), "that statute privileges, no less
than common-law rights, when in actual possession and exercise, will not be permitted to be disturbed until the opponent
has fairly tried them at law and overthrown their pretension." The same learned judge refers also to the practice
of the Federal courts in granting injunctions under the patthe case of Morse
ent law, mentioning two instances, -one,
v. Reid, an injunction bill filed in 1796 to restrain the invasion of a copyright; the other, Whitney v. Port, in which an
injunction was granted to restrain the violation of the patent
for the cotton-gin. Of course, in those cases the jurisdiction
of the court depended on the citizenship of the parties.
Congress then passed the act of Feb. 15, 1819, c,19, which
enacted "that the Circuit Courts of the United States shall
have original cognizance, as well in equity as at law, of all
actions, suits, controversies, and cases arising under any law
of the United States, granting or confirming to authors or
inventors the exclusive right to their respective writings, inventions, and discoveries; and upon any bill in equity, filed by
any party aggrieved in any such cases, shall have authority
to grant injunctions, according to the course and principles
of courts of equity, to prevent the violation of the rights of
any authors or inventors secured to them by any law of the
United States, on such terms and conditions as the said courts
may deem fit and reasonable."
In the case of Sullivan v. Redfield (1 Paine, 441), which was
decided in 1825, Mr. Justice Thompson, who in the Livingston
case had at as one of the judges of the State court, had occasion to consider the nature of the equity jurisdiction in patent

Oct. 1881.]

ROOT

V. RAILWAY

CO.

suits. " The equity jurisdiction," he said, " exercised by the
court over patents for inventions is merely in aid of the common law, and in order to give more complete effect to the provisions of the statute under which the patent is granted." And
in answer to the argument that the act of 1819 gave a peremptory right to an equitable remedy by virtue of the patent itself,
lie said : " This act does not enlarge or alter the powers of the
court over the subject-matter of the bill or the cause of action.
It only extends its jurisdiction to parties not before falling
within it. Before this act it had been held that a citizen of
one State could not obtain an injunction in the Circuit Court
for a violation of a patent-right against a citizen of tile same
State, as no act of Congress authorized such suit. This act
removed that objection and gave the jurisdiction, although the
parties were citizens of the same State. But in the exercise
of the jurisdiction in all cases of granting injunctions to prevent the violation of patent-rights the court is to proceed
according to the course and principles of courts of equity in
such cases. So that the questions presented in the present case
are precisely where they would have been without this act."
The substance of the act of 1819 was incorporated into the
seventeenth section of the act of July 4, 1836, c. 357 (5 Stat.
117), so far. as it related to inventors, but remained in force,
after the passage of the latter act, so far as it gave cognizance
to the courts of the United States of eases of copyright. It was
under that provision of the act of 1819 that the case of Steves
v. Gladding arose and was decided. 17 How. 447. That was
a bill for an injunction to restrain the violation of a copyright,
and prayed for the recovery of the penalties given by the
seventh section of the act of Feb. 3, 1831, c. 16, and for general relief. Mr. Justice Curtis, delivering the opinion of the
court, said: "There is nothing in this act of 1819 which
extends the equity powers of the courts to the adjudication of
forfeitures ; it being manifestly intended that the jurisdiction
therein conferred should be the usual and known jurisdiction
exercised by courts of equity for the protection of analogous
rights. The prayer of this bill for the penalties must, therefore, be rejected. The remaining question is whether there
ought to be a decree for an account of the profits. The comvO,. xv.

13

ROOT V. RAILWAY CO.

[Sup. Ct.

plainant has not prayed for such an account, nor have the defendants stated one in their answer ; but the bill does pray for
general relief. The right to an account of profits is incident
to the right to an injunction in copy and patent right cases,"'
citing Colburn v. Yimms, 2 Hare, 554; 3 P!an. Ch. Pr. 1797.
" And this court has held, in Watts et al. v. Waddle et al. (6
Pet. 389), that where the bill states a case proper for an account,
one may be ordered under the prayer for general relief."
The seventeenth section of the act of 1836 differs from the
act of 1819 in one other particular only. It makes. the jurisdiction in patent causes of the court of the United States
exclusive.
It was under the act of 1836 that the question arose for the
first time, in Livingston v. Woodworth (15 How. 546), as to the
rule for computing the profits of an infringer, upon a decree
for such an account. The bill was for an injunction and
The validity of the patent and the fact of inaccount.
fringement were both admitted by the defendant, who consented to a decree requiring him to account for and pay over
the gains and profits made by him, during the infringement, in
accordance with the prayer of the bill. The decree confirmed
the report of the master, who awarded, not actual gains and
profits, but such as he estimated the defendant might have
made by due diligence. It was argued, in support of the
decree, that where the court has jurisdiction to give the principal relief sought, it will make a complete decree, and give
compensation for the past injury, as in bills for specific performance and injunction bills for waste; and that it was a
correct rule to hold the party accountable, as an involuntary
trustee, for what the patentee might have realized by the same
exercise of the right, as a court of equity sometimes forces the
character of a trustee upon an intruder, or wrong-doer, or one
in possession under color of right, or who takes rents or profits
belonging to another, or might have taken them, as in cases of
mortgagees ; but it was admitted that the case was of first impression. The decree, upon this point, was reversed. The
court said : ' We are aware of no rule which converts a court
of equity into an instrument for the punishment of simple
torts..... Ifthe appellees, the plaintiffs below, had sustained

Oct. 1881.]

ROOT V. RAILWAY CO.

an injury to their legal rights, the courts of law were open to
them for redress, and in these courts they might, according to
a practice which, however doubtful in point of essential right,
is now too inveterate to be called in question, have elained,
not compensation merely, but vengeance, for such injury as
they could show they have sustained. But before a tribunal
which refuses to listen even to any, save those whose acts, and
motives are perfectly fair and liberal, they cannot be permitted
to contravene the highest and most benignant principle of the
being and constitution of that tribunal. There they will be
allowed to claim that which, ex cequo et bono is theirs, and
nothing beyond this." p. 559. The account was, therefore,
restricted to the actual gains and profits of the appellants
during the time their machine was in operation.
This rule in relation to the profits recoverable in such suits
was followed in Dean v. Milason (20 How. 198), which was a
case of a bill for an injunction and account, in which a decree
pro eonfesso had been taken. The final decree was entered, on
the report of the master, for the estimated amount of profits
which the defendant, with reasonable diligence, might have
realized; not what, in fact, he did realize. This was held to be
erroneous. The court said: " The rule in such a case is, the
amount of profits received by the unlawful use of the machines,
as this, in general, is the damage done to the owner of the patent.
It takes away the motive of the infringer of patented rights by
requiring him to pay the profits of his labor to the owner of
the patent. Generally, this is suflicient to protect the rights
of the owner ; but where the wrong has been done, under
aggravated circumstances, the court has the power under the
statute to punish it adequately by an increase of the damages."
The important case of Scymour v. McCormickc (16 How.
480) was decided in 1853. That was an action at law. The
court below instructed the jury that the actual damages to
which the plaintiff was entitled, for an infringement of a patent for an improvement in a machine, might be determined by
ascertaining the profits which in judgment of law he would
have made, provided the defendants had not interfered with
his rights, and that the same rule applied whether the patent
covered an entire machine or merely an improvement on a

RooT v.

RAILWAY

CO.

[Sup. Ct.

machine. This instruction this court held to be erroneous, and
reversed the judgment on that account. Mr. Justice Grier, in
delivering the opinion of the court, referred to the rule of damages, prescribed by the acts of Congress, previously in force,
stating that " experience had shown the very great injustice
of a horizontal rule equally affecting all cases, without regard
to their peculiar merits ; " and that it was to obviate this that
the Patent Act of 1836 confined the jury to the assessment of
actual damages, leaving it to the discretion of the court to
inflict punitive damages to the extent of trebling the verdict.
Ile then remarked : " It must be apparent to the most superficial observer of the immense variety of patents issued every
day, that there cannot, in the nature of things, be any one rule
of damages which will equally apply to all cases. The mode
of ascertaining actual damages must necessarily depend on
the peculiar nature of the monopoly granted. A man who
invents or discovers a new composition of matter, such as vulcanized india-rubber or a valuable medicine, may find his
profit to consist in a close monopoly, forbidding any one to
compete with him in the market, the patentee being himself
able to supply the whole demand at his own price, in which
cases " the profit of the infringer may be the only criterion of
the actual damage of the patentee; " that "one who invents
some improvement in the machinery of a mill could not claim
that the profits of the whole mill should be the measure of
damages for the use of his improvement; and where the profit
of the patentee consisted neither in the exclusive use of the
thing invented or discovered, nor in the monopoly of making
it for others to use, it is evident that this rule could not apply.
The case of Stimpson's patent for a turnout in a railroad may
be cited as an example. It was the interest of the patentee
that all railroads should use his invention, provided they paid
him the price of his license. Ile could not make his profit by
selling it as a complete and separate machine. An infringer
of such a patent could not be liable to damages to the amount
of the profits of his railroad, nor could the actual damages of
the patentee be measured by any known ratio of the profits of
the road. . . . It is only where, from the peculiar circumstances
of the case, no other rule can be found that the defendant's

Oct. 1881.]

ROOT V. RAILWAY CO.

profits become the criterion of the plaintiff's loss. Actual
damages must be actually proved, and cannot be assumed as
a legal inference from any facts which amount not to actual
proof of the fact." Accordingly it was held in Corporation of
New York v. Ransom (23 How. 487), where the rule in Seymour v. He Cormick (supra) was expressly approved, that in an
action at law, if the plaintiff rested his case, after proof of
infringement merely, he was entitled only to nominal damages.
It was also applied in Jones v. Morehead (1 Wall. 155) whi'h
was a bill in equity for an injunction and an account, where a
decree for a large sum as profits had been rendered against the
defendant, upon an entire machine, in respect to which it appeared as matter of fact that the defendants had not infringed
the patent sued on, but had admitted to the contrary in the
answer. The court construed this admission by applying it to
the smallest number of patented articles, and to the use of any
part of the patent found to be valid, and, reversing the decree,
ordered one to be entered for a " nominal sum of one dollar
for profits."
In Rubber Company v. Goodyear (9 Wall. 788), which was
a bill for an injunction and account, a decree for a large sum
was rendered in favor of the complainants, which was affirmed
on appeal. " The rule," said Mr. Justice Swayne, delivering
the opinion of the court, " is founded in reason and justice.
It compensates one party and punishes the other. It makes
the wrong-doer liable for actual, not possible, gains. The controlling consideration is that he shall not profit by his wrong.
A more favorable rule would offer a premium to dishonesty
and invite to aggression. The jurisdiction of equity is adequate to give the proper remedy, whatever phase the case may
assume; and the severity of the decree may be increased or
mitigated according to the complexion of the conduct of the
offender."
Mowry v. Whitney (14 Wall. 620) was also a bill in equity
for an injunction and account. A decree was rendered in
favor of the complainant for all the profits on the manufactured article, instead of upon the patented process of manufacture, with interest added. On appeal, this court reversed
the decree on that point, saying: " The question to be deter-

ROOT V. RAILWAY CO.

(Sup. Ct.

mined in this case is, what advantage did the defendant derive
from using the complainant's invention, over what lie had in
using other processes then open to the public and adequate to
enable him to obtain an equally beneficial result. The fruits
of that advantage are his profits..... That advantage is the
measure of profits." On the question of interest, Mr. Justice
Strong, speaking for the court, said: " We add only that, in

our opinion, the defendant should not have been charged with
interest before the final decree. The profits which are recoverable against an infringer of a patent are in fact a compensation for the injury the patentee has sustained from the

invasion of his right. They are the measure of his damages.
Though called profits, they are really damages, and unliquidated until the decree is made. Interest is not generally
allowable upon unliquidated damages. We will not say that
in no possible case can interest be allowed. It is enough that
the case in hand does not justify such an allowance."

In Packet Company v. Sickdes (19 Wall. 611), which was an
action at law, the rule established in Seymour v. Me(ormick
(supra) was reiterated, as "'the established criterion of damages in cases to which it was applicable." " In cases where
there is no established patent or license fee in the case, or even
an approximation to it,general evidence must necessarily be
resorted to," as was said by the court in the case of Suffolc
Company v. Hayden, 3 Wall. 815. " And what evidence," said
Mr. Justice Nelson, in that case, p. 320, "could be more
appropriate and pertinent than that of the utility and advantage of the invention over the old modes or devices that had
been used for working out similar results? With a knowledge
of these benefits to the persons who have used the invention,
and the extent of the use by the infringer, a jury will be in
possession of material and controlling facts that may enable
them, in the exercise of a sound judgment, to ascertain the
damages, or, in other words, the loss to the patentee or owner
by the piracy instead of the purchase of the use of the invention." He added that "a recovery does not vest the infringer
with the right to continue the use, as the consequence of it
may be an injunction restraining the defendant
further use of it."

from the

Oct. 1881.]

ROOT V. RAILWAY

CO.

In Packet Conpangy v. Sickles (supra), Mr. Justice Miller
said: "The rule in suits in equity, of ascertaining by a reference to a master the profits which the defendant has made by
the use of the plaintiff's invention, stands on a different principle. It is that of converting the infringer into a trustee for
the patentee as regards the profits thus made; and the adjustment of these profits is subject to all the equitable considerations which are necessary to do complete justice between the
parties, many of which would be inappropriate in a trial by
jury. With these corrective powers in the hands of the
Chancellor, the rule of assuming profits as the groundwork for
estimating the compensation due from the infringer to the
patentee has produced results calculated to suggest distrust of
its universal application even in courts of equity."
The doctrine of this case was reiterated in Burdell v. Denig
(92 U. S. 716), where Mr. Justice Miller, again delivering the
opinion of the court, said: "'Profits are not the primary or true criterion of damages
for infringement in an action at law. That rule applies eminently and mainly to cases in equity, and is based on the
idea that the infringer shall be converted into a trustee, as to
those profits, for the owner of the patent which he infringes ;
a principle which it is very difficult to apply in a trial before a
jury, but quite appropriate on a reference to a master, who can
examine defendant's books and papers, and examine him on
oath, as well as all his clerks and emnployds. On the other
hand, we have repeatedly held that sales of licenses of machines, or of a royalty established, constitute the primary and
true criterion of damages in the action at law. No doubt, in
the absence of satisfactory evidence of either class in the forum
to which it is most appropriate, the other may be resorted to
as one of the elements on which the damages or the compensation may be ascertained."
Littlefield v. Perry (21 Wall. 205) was one where the patentee, by force of an agreement, held the legal title to the patent in trust for the complainant, in violation of which he was
making use of his legal rights. It was held, upon a bill filed
for an injunction and account, that it was a case under the
patent laws, and the defendant was required to account for the

ROOT v. RAILWAY

CO.

[Slip. Ct.

profits he had made, according to the rule in Mowry v. Whitney, supra. The Chief Justice said, p. 230: "Profits actually
realized are usually, in a case like this, the measure of unliquidated dam ages.

Circumstances may, however, arisewhich

woull justify the addition of interest in order to give complete indennity for losses sustained by wilful infringements."
By the act of July 8, 1870, c. 230, Congress revised, consolidated, and amended the statutes relating to patents and copyrights. 16 Stat. 198. The fifty-ninth section renewed the
provision previously in force, that damages for infringement
might be recovered by action o1 the case, and that whenever,
in any such action, a verdict shall be rendered for the plaintiff,

the court may enter judgment therein for any sum above the
amount found by the verdict as the actual damages sustained,

according to the circumstances of the case, not exceeding three
times the amount of the verdict. The fifty-fifth section is as
follows : " That all actions, suits, controversies, and cases arising under
the patent laws of the United States shall be originally cognizable,
as well in equity as at law, by the Circuit Courts of the United
States, or any District Court having the power and jurisdiction of '
Circuit Court, or by the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia,
or of any Territory; and the court shall have power, upon bill in
equity filed by any party aggrieved, to grant injunctions, according
to the course and principles of courts of equity, to prevent the violation of any right secured by patent, on such terms as the cou't
may deem reasonable; and upon a decree being rendered in any
such case for an infiringement, the complainant shall be entitled to
recover, in addition to the profits to be accounted for by the defendant, the damages the complainant has sustained thereby, and
the court shall assess the same or cause the same to be assessed
under its direction, and the court shall have the same powers to
increase the same in its discretion that are given by this act to
increase the damages found by verdicts in actions upon the case;
but all actions shall be brought during the term for which the letters-patent shall be granted or extended, or within six years after
the expiration thereof."

These provisions are substantially carried into the Revised
Statutes, sect. 59 of the act of 1870, being sect. 4919 of the

Oct. 1881.]

ROOT v. RAILWAY CO.

latter, and sect. 55 corresponding to sect. 4921 Rev. Stat.,
except as to the provision in respect to the limitation upon the
right to sue, which is not found in the Revised Statutes. But
the rights of the parties in the present suit arose while the act
of 1870 was in force, and are determinable under it.
In the case of Birdsall v. Coolidge (93 U. S. 64) it is
declared, in reference to the effect of the act of 1870, that
gains and profits are still the proper measure of damages in
equity suits, except in cases where the injury sustained by the
infringement is plainly greater than the aggregate of what was
made by the respondent
in which event the provision is,
that the complainant " shall be entitled to recover, in addition
to the profits to be accounted for by the respondent, the damages he has sustained thereby."
Mr. Justice Clifford, in the opinion in this case, quotes a
passage, slightly altered, from Curtis on Patents, sect. 341 a
(4th ed.), p. 461, which, taken by itself, might seem to imply
that prior to the act of 1870 the owner of a patent had the
election to resort to a court of equity for the recovery of profits,
or a court of law for damages, irrespective of any other relief
of an equitable character; but the language of the passage is
to be restrained to mean merely that the option existed to sue
at law for past infringement, or seek equitable relief by way
of prevention, the damages or profits following, as either jurisdiction is resorted to, each according to its kind. For if this
be not so, it follows that since the passage of the act of 1870
an owner of a patent may recover, in a suit in equity, profits
and damages in all cases, according to the rule above stated,
without seeking any other relief whatever, the effect of which
would be to give two remedies, one in equity, the other at law,
merely for the recovery of damages for an injury to a legal
right, an anomaly not to be found in any other branch of our
jurisprudence. And manifestly, upon such a construction, the
action at law would soon become obsolete, as completely as if
it had been abolished by legislation. The whole force of the
change in the statute consists in conferring upon courts of
equity, in the exercise of their jurisdiction in administering
the relief, which they are accustomed and authorized to give,
and which is appropriate to their forms of procedure, the power

RoOT v.

RAILWAY CO.

[Sup. Ct.

not merely to give that measure of compensation for the past,
which consists in the profits of the infringer, but to supplement
it, when necessary, with the full amount of damage suffered
by the complainant, and which, if he had sued for that alone,
he would have recovered in another forum, with power to
increase the amount of the actual damages, as in courts of law.
But as the account of profits, previously, was the incident of
the suit, and not its object, so now the power to award damages and to multiply them is added as an incident to the right
to an account.
But the difference between the state of the law before and
after the act of 1870 finds its best illustration in a comparison
between two cases, both of which were decided at the October
Term, 1877, Elizabeth v. Parement Company, 97 U. S. 126, and
Marsh v. Seymour, id. 348.
In the former the bill was filed before the passage of the
act, but prayed, besides an injunction, for both damages and
profits. It was held that the court below had rightly decided
that a decree for profits alone could be rendered, inasmuch as
the jurisdiction of courts of equity to decree damages, as distinct from profits, was first conferred by the statute. Mr. Justice Bradley, delivering the opinion of the court, remarking
that the general question of the profits recoverable in equity
by a patentee was surrounded with many difficulties, which
the courts had not yet succeeded in overcoming, said :"But one thing may be affirmed with reasonable confidence,
that, if an infringer of a patent has realized no profit from
the use of the invention, he cannot be called upon to respond
for profits; the patentee in such case is left to his remedy for
damages. It is also clear that a patentee is entitled to recover
the profits that have been actually realized from the use of his
invention, although from other causes the general business of
the defendant, in which the invention is employed, may not
have resulted in profits, - as when it is shown that the use of
his invention produced a definite saving in the process of a manufacture. Mowry v. Whitney, 14 Wall. 434; Cawood Patent, 94
U. S. 695. On the contrary, though the defendant's general
business be ever so profitable, if the use of the invention has
not contributed to the profits, none can be recovered. The

Oct. 1881.]

ROOT V. RAILWAY CO.

same result would seem to follow where it is impossible to show
the profitable effect of using the invention upon the business
results of the party infringing. It may be added, that, where
no profits are shown to have accrued, a court of equity cannot
give a decree for profits by way of damages, or as a punishment for the infringement. Livingston v. Woodworth, 15 How.
5 9. But when the entire profit of a business or undertaking
results from the use of the invention, the patentee will be entitled to recover the entire profits, if he elects that remedy.
And in such a case, the defendant will not be allowed to diminish the show of profits by putting in unconscionable claims
for personal services or other inequitable deductions. Rubber
Gompany v. Goodyear, 9 Wall. 788." And these general
propositions, he added, will hardly admit of dispute.
Accordingly, in that case, the bill was dismissed as to the
city of Elizabeth, which had infringed, because it appeared
that it had made no profit from the use of the patented improvement, while a decree was rendered against the contractor,
who had laid the pavement which was the subject of the patent, because he was shown to have made profits from the
infringement. The municipal corporation, of course, remained
liable to respond in damages in an action at law for any loss
which the plaintiff could have established by proof.
The cases of Jlarsh v. Seymour (suapra) arose under the act
of 1870, and were bills for injunction and account. Decrees
were rendered in favor of the complainant, and a reference
ordered to a master to state an account of profits. In both
cases, the respondents showing that they had made no profits
by reason of the use of the invention, the complainant waived
his claim for a recovery on that account, and decrees were rendered for damages on the basis of a license fee for the infringing machines which had been sold, and nominal damages for
those manufactured but not sold. These decrees were affirmed,
the court saying, Mr. Justice Clifford delivering its opinion,
that "damages of a compensatory character may be allowed
to a complainant in an equity suit, where it appears that the
business of the infringer was so improvidently conducted that
it did not yield any substantial profits, as in the ease before
the court."

ROOT v. RAILWAY CO.

[Sup. Ct.

In Parks v. Booth (102 U. S. 96), which was a suit iii
equity for an injunction, an account of profits and damages,
under the act of 1870, a decree was rendered in favor of the
complainant, and for profits and damages as found by a master.
Under the head of damages there were included items for expenses of conducting the suit, being counsel fees, compensation
for the complainant's time, and interest on the profits. The
decree was modified on appeal, by striking out all these allowances, except that for the complainant's time, lost in attending
to the suit. Interest on profits was, on the authority of Silsly
v. TFoote (20 How. 378), disallowed on the ground that profits
in such a case are to be regarded in the light of unliquidated
damages. No injunction was decreed, as the term of the patent had expired. It does not appear from the report of the
case when the suit was begun, but a reference to the original
record shows that the bill was filled in April, 1871, before the
expiration of the term of the patent.
lfendrie v. Sayles (98 U. S. 546) was a bill in equity for an
account of profits, filed after the expiration of the patent, the
same patent on which the present suit is founded. It was
decided upon a single point raised on demurrer to the bill, the
question of jurisdiction not being noticed either by counsel or
court. A decree for the complainant was affirnmed on appeal.
This appears to be the only case of the kind, until the
present, that found its way into this court.
-Eureka Company v. Bailey Company (11 Wall. 488) is no
exception to this remark ; although in respect to it the observation has been made, that the injunction prayed for in that
case was incidental to the account, and not vice versa. .That,
however, is a misconception ; for, unless upon the ground of a
difference of citizenship, the court would not have had jurisdiction to entertain the bill in that case, if it had not prayed for
an injunction. For the mere purpose of enforcing the contract for the royalty, it was not a case arising under the patent
laws, so as to give jurisdiction to the courts of the United
States. It was because the defendant was guilty of an infringement of the complainant's patent that he was suable in equity
in these courts, and to restrain that an injunction was asked
until he should pay what he had promised. The object of the

Oct. 1881.]

t OOT V. RAILWAY CO.

suit doubtless was to collect the royalty; but it was sought by
means of, and therefore as an incident to, the jurisdiction of the
court, invoked for the purpose of enjoining the continuance of
what, until the royalty was acknowledged and paid, was found
to be an infringement.
All the acts of Congress relating to patents prior to that
of 1870 contained provisions specifying the special defences
which might be made in an action at law for an infringement,
under the plea of the general issue, notice thereof having been
previously given. The sixty-first section of the act of 1870
enumerates the several special matters thus authorized to be
proved, and adds, for the first time in the history of this legislation, the clause that " the like defences may be pleaded in
any suit in equity for relief against an alleged infringement,
and proofs of the same may be given upon like notice in the
answer of the defendant and with the like effect."
The plain and obvious purpose of this provision is to furnish
appropriate modes in equity pleading for the trial of all issues,
both of fact and law, relating both to the alleged infringement
and the validity of the patent, without the necessity of framing
special issues out of chancery for trial by jury, or sending the
parties to a court of law for the trial of an action in that
forum, in order to determine their legal right. It proceeds
upon the idea that the court of equity having acquired jurisdiction for the purpose of administering the equitable relief
sought by the bill, may determine directly and for itself, in the
same proceeding, all questions incidental to the exercise of its
Jurisdiction, notwithstanding they may be questions affecting
legal rights and legal titles.
Although this was the first statutory authority for the practice, it was rather a recognition of what bad already been
established than its introduction ; for the practice had, in fact,
originated long before, and was based upon well-known principles of equity jurisprudence. Whatever question may have
existed in reference to it previously was settled in the courts of
the United States by Goodyear v. Day (2 Wall. Jr. 283), a ease
argued by Webster and Choate, and decided by Mr. Justice
Grier in 1852. That learned judge on that occasion said: " It is
true that in England the Chancellor will generally not grant a

ROOT V. RAILWAY CO.

[Sup. Ct.

final and perpetual injunction in patent cases, when the answer
denies the validity of the patent, without sending the parties
to law to have that question decided. But even there the rule
is not absolute or universal ; it is a practice founded more on
convenience than necessity. It always rests on the sound discretion of the court. A trial at law is ordered by a chancellor
to inform his conscience; not because either party may demand
it as a right, or that a court of equity is incompetent to judge
of questions of fact or of legal titles." See also Orr v. lerrill,
1 Woodb. & M. 376.
The distinction in the nature of the two proceedings, of an
action at law and a suit ili equity, is plainly pointed out in this
section of the statute, the former as being an action for an
infringement, the latter as a suit for relief against an alleged
infringement. And while upon the words used in the fifty-fifth
section of the act, it may be, that the jurisdiction in equity
which is thereby conferred is not exhausted by the power to
grant injunctions according to the course and principles of
courts of equity, to prevent the violation of any right secured
by patent, yet the statute immediately says, that it is upon a
decree being rendered in any such case for an infringement as though that was the only one - that the complainant shall
be entitled to recover, in addition to the profits to be accounted
for by the defendant, the damages the complainant has sustained thereby.
It is impossible, we think, to maintain the claim that the
language of this act, similar in that respect to the previous
acts of 1819 and 1836, conferring jurisdiction in patent cases
in equity as well as at law, was meant to obliterate the distinctions between these two jurisdictions, or even to confuse
the boundaries between them, as it is alleged was done by the
decision in the case of Nevins v. Johnson (3 Blatchf. 80), and
perhaps in other subsequent circuit court decisions. Indeed,
it is the settled doctrine of this court that this distinction of
jurisdiction, between law and equity, is constitutional, to the extent to which the seventh amendment forbids any infringement
of the right of trial by jury, as fixed by the common law.
And the doctrine applies in patent cases as well as others.
This court said in Parsons v. Bedford (3 Pet. 433), speaking

Oct. 1881.]

ROOT V. RAILWAY Co.

of the meaning intended by the framers of that amendment,
that "by common law they meant what the Constitution
denominated in the 3d article, LAW, not merely suits which
the common law recognized among its old and settled proceedings, but suits in which legal rights were to be ascertained and
determined, in contradistinction to those where equitable rig/tty
alone were recognized and equitable remedies administered."
The rule was repeated in Fenn v. Holme (21 How. 481), in
this language: " In every instance in which this court has
expounded the phrases, proceedings at the common law and
proceedings in equity, with reference to the exercise of the
judicial powers of the courts of the United States, they will be
found to have interpreted the former as signifying the application of the definitions and principles and rules of the common law to rights and obligations essentially legal ; and the
latter as meaning the administration with reference to equitable as contradistinguished from legal rights, of the equity law
as defined and enforced by the Court of Chancery in England.
It becomes necessary, therefore, to consider what support
there is in the general doctrines of equity for the contention of
the appellant.
It is the fundamental characteristic and limit of the jurisdiction in equity that it cannot give relief when there is a
plain and adequate and complete remedy at law ; and hence it
had no original, independent, and inherent power to afford
redress for breaches of contract or torts, by awarding damages ;
for to do that was the very office of proceedings at law.
When, however, relief was sought which equity alone could
give, as by way of injunction to prevent a continuance of the
wrong, in order to avoid multiplicity of suits and to do coinplete justice, the court assumed jurisdiction to award compensation for the past injury, not, however, by assessing damages,
which was the peculiar office of a jury, but requiring an account of profits, on the ground that if any had been made, it
was equitable to require the wrong-doer to refund them, as it
would be inequitable that he should make a profit out of his
own wrong. As was said by Vice-Chancellor Wigram in
Colburn v. Simms (2 Hare, 543), "the court does not by an
account accurately measure the dalnage sustained by the pro-

ROOT V. RAILWAY CO.

[Sup. Ct.

prietor of an expensive work from the invasion of his copyright by the publication of a cheaper book," but, " as the
nearest approximation which it can make to justice, takes from
the wrong-doer all the profits he has made by his piracy an,
gives them to the party who has been wronged."
Whether a bill for an account of profits against a wrong-doer
would lie, independently of other equitable grounds for the
intervention of the court, is a question, as was said by Lord
Chancellor 3rougham in Parrott v. Palmer (3 Myl. & K. 632),
" which has been oftentimes agitated, and has, perhaps, never
received a clear and a general decision ; that is to say, a distinct
judgment on the general proposition, with its limitations."
He concluded that, " from the whole it may be collected that,
although as to timber there exists considerable discrepancy,
yet the sound rule is to make the account the incident and
.not the principal, where there is a remedy at law; but that
mines are to be otherwise considered, and that as to them the
party may have an account even in cases where no injunction
would lie."
The supposed exception in eases of mines seems to rest upon
a dictum of Lord Hardwicke in Jesus College v. Bloom (3 Atk.
262), that " it was a sort of trade ; " but the reference is to the
case of Bishop of Winchester v. Knig]tt (1 P. W. 406), where
the bill prayed for an account of ore dug by the ancestor of
the defendant, in respect to which the argument was, that being a personal tort it died with the person. The decision was
that the plaintiff was not entitled; but on this point the Lord
Chancellor said: " It would be a reproach to equity to say,
where a man has taken nmy property, as my ore or timber, and
disposed of it in his lifetime and dies, that in this case I would
be without remedy. It is true as to the trespass of breaking
up meadow or ancient pasture ground, it dies with the person ;
but as to the property of the ore or timber, it would be clear,
even at law, if it came to the executor's hands, that trover
would lie for it; and if it has been disposed of in the testator's lifetime, the executor, if assets are left, ought to answer
it." It is plain from these observations that the assumed
ground of the equity jurisdiction was the absence of any
remedy at law. Powell v.Ailen 4 Kay & J. 343. It is now

Oct. 1881.]

ROOT v. RAILWAY CO.

clearly established in the English chancery " that a bill will
not lie for an account of timber felled any more than for any
other money demand, except when the account is asked as an
incident to an injunction, and that when the plaintiff has no
right to an injunction, he has no right to an account, and his
remedy is at law alone." Per Sir Win. M. James, L. J., in
Higginbotham v. Hawkins, Law Rep. 7 Ch. App. 676.
The same rule is applied by the modern decisions in cases of
mines, where, as incident to the relief sought by a bill, an
account is asked of profits against trespassers. It appears that
as to the mode of assessing compensation, in such suits, to an
owner of coal which has been improperly worked by the owner
of an adjoining mine, a different principle is applicable when
the coal is taken inadvertently, or under a bona fide belief
of title, and when it is taken fraudulently, with knowledge
of the wrong. In cases of the latter description, at law, the
strict rule of damages laid down in Martin v. Porter (5 Mee. &
W. 351) was to charge the value of the coal without allowing
any of the expenses of getting it; but in those of the former
description a milder rule was applied in Morgan v. Powell
(3 Q. B. 278) and Wood v. Morewood (id. 440), which was
to give to the plaintiff the fair value of the coals as if the coalfield had been purchased from him by the defendant. This
distinction was adopted and the latter rule applied in equity,
by Vice-Chancellor Malins in Hilton v. Woods (Law Rep. 4 Eq.
432), and by Lord Chancellor Hatherley in Jegon v. Vivian
(Law Rep. 6 Ch. App. 742), the latter remarking that " this
court never allows a man to make profit by a wrong." This
rule was adopted in Stocbridge Iron Co. v. Cone lron Works,
102 Mass. 80.
The same rule applies in England in patent and copyright
cases. The Vice-Chancellor Page-Wood, in Smith v. London
Southwestern Railway Co. (Kay, 408), said: "The
true ground of relief in these cases is laid down in Baily v.
Taylor (1 Russ. & M. 73), where Sir J. Leach, M. R., says:
'The court has no jurisdiction to give to a plaintiff a remedy for
an alleged piracy, unless he can make out that he is entitled to
the equitable interposition of this court by injunction ; and in
such case the court will also give him an account, that his
-

VOL. XV.

14

ROOT V. RAILWAY CO.

[Sup. Ct.

remedy here may be complete. If this court do not interfere
by injunction, then his remedy, as in the case of any other injury to his property, must be at law.' Unless that primary
right to an injunction exists, this court has no jurisdiction with
reference to a mere question of damages." The Vice-Chancellor
further observed that, as had often been stated by Lord Eldon,
as the object of the court in interfering by injunction was the
prevention of a multiplicity of suits, which might be rendered
necessary by continued infringements of the patent, he was at
a loss to see how the jurisdiction could attach or the relief by
injunction be arrived at, after the expiration of the patent, unless a case were made out, of a nmnerous series of past infringements, from which the parties were still deriving advantage.
lie then referred to Crossley v. Bererly (Web. P. C. 119) as
a case where there was a specific ground for that relief, that
the defendants had been manuifacturing the patented articles,
secretly and fraudulently, for the purpose of pouring into the
market the articles so manufactured directly the patent should
have expired. In that case the bill was filed before the expiration of the patent, and the right to sue having been thus
acquired, the court extended it to restrain using the articles so
manufactured after the patent had expired. " Such a case,"
continues the Vice-Chancellor, "of a fraudulent attempt to
evade the patent might occur, as would enable the court to restrain the use of articles made in infringement of the patent
and kept back until it expired, even after its expiration, and
the plaintiff having thus obtained a right to the injunction, the
right to an account would follow."
In the ease of Price'sPat.Candle Co. v. Bauwen's Pat. Candle
Co. (4 Kay & J. 727), the bill was dismissed, because the patent
having expired pendente lite, the relief by injunction could not
be granted at the hearing; but in Davenport v. Itylands (Law
Rep. 1 Eq. 302), the same judge retained the bill, under
similar circumstances, for the purposes of an inquiry as to
damages, because the act of 21 & 22 Vict., c.27, commonly
called Cairn's Act, passed after the former decision, had altered
the rule. That statute declared that in all cases in which the
court has jurisdiction to entertain an application for an injunction against a breach of any covenant, contract, or agreement,

Oct. 1881.]

iRomT V. RAILWAY Co.

or against the commission or continuance of any wrongful act,
or for the specific performance of any covenant, contract, or
agreement, the same court may award damages to the party
injured either in addition to or in substitution for such injunction or specific performance, and such damages may be assessed
in such manner as the court shall direct, - a provision which
no doubt suggested the like extension of the jurisdiction of the
court in patent cases, contained in our Patent Act of 1870.
But even after the passage of Cairn's Act, it was decided by
Vice-Chancellor Sir Win. M. James, in Betts v. Gallais (Law
Rep. 10 Eq. 392), that the court would not entertain a bill for
the mere purposes of giving relief in damages for the infringement of a patent, when the bill had been filed so immediately
before the expiration of the patent as to render it impossible to
have obtained an interlocutory injunction. He characterized
it as " a mere device to transfer a plain jurisdiction to award
damages from the court to which that jurisdiction properly
belongs, to this court."
Mr. Kerr, in his treatise on Injunctions, 41, summarizes the
result of many decisions, which he cites, under this statute, as
follows: " The statute did not transfer to the court the general
jurisdiction of common law by way of damages, or extend
its jurisdiction to cases where previously to the statute it had
no jurisdiction, or could not, consistently with its rules and
principles, have interfered. The statute merely empowered the
court to give damages in cases involving elements or ingredients of an equitable character. If the case as presented to the
court was an equitable one, so that the subject-matter of the
application is properly cognizable in equity, the court had
jurisdiction under the statute to entertain the question of damages. If, on the other hand, the plaintiff had no equitable
right at the time of bringing the action, so that the matter has
been improperly brought into equity, the statute had no application. Damages may be awarded under the statute if it
appear that at the time of bringing the action there was an
equitable case, although the case for an injunction fails, or
although an injunction is not competent from circumstances
which have occurred since the filing of the bill."
It will be observed that the British statute does not touch

ROOT v. RAILWAY CO.

[Sup. Ct.

the question of the account of profits by an infringer, leaving
that as it stood before the passage of the act. The unavoidable
inference is that damages can only be given under the act, in
cases in which an account might be decreed; and that the
patentee must, as it was expressly decided by the House of
Lords, in De Vitre v. Betts (Law Rep. 6 H. L. 319), in all
cases when he has a decree, elect whether he will have an account of profits or an inquiry as to damages, and cannot have
Under the act of Congress of 1870, he may recover
both.
damages in addition to the profits to be accounted for by the
defendant ; but as the recovery is limited by the act to the
actual damages, it is manifest that the recovery of damages
and profits is not intended to be doubie, but that when necessary the damages are to supplement that loss of the complainant
which the profits found to have been received are insufficient
to compensate, subject to the power of the court as to their
increase, as in case of verdicts.
This firm and indisputable doctrine of the English chancery
has been recognized and declared by this court, in Hipp v.
Babin (19 How. 271), to be part of the system of equity jurisprudence administered by the courts of the United States,
founded not only upon the legislative declaration in the Judiciary Act of 1789, "that suits in equity shall not be sustained in
either of the courts of the United States in any case where
plain, adequate, and complete remedy may be had at law," but
also upon the intrinsic distinctions between the different jurisdictions of law and equity. In delivering the opinion of the
court in that case, Mr. Justice Campbell remarked that " the
practice of the courts of the United States corresponds with
that of the chancery of Great Britain, except where it has been
changed by rule, or is modified by local circumstances or local
convenience ; "' and cited the instances in which " this court has
denied relief in cases in equity, where the remedy at law has
been plain, adequate, and complete, though the question was not
raised by the defendants in their pleadings nor suggested by the
counsel in their arguments. He then adds: " And the result
of the argument is that whenever a court of law is competent
to take cognizance of a right, and has power to proceed to a
judgment which affords a plain, adequate, and complete remedy,

Oct. 1881.]

ROOT V. RAILWAY CO.

without the aid of a court of equity, the plaintiff must proceed
at law, because the defendant has a constitutional right to a
trial by jury." It was contended in that case that, notwithstanding this general principle, the bill ought to be maintained,
because the complainants, being minors, were authorized to
call upon the defendants, who had intruded into possession of
their lands, for an account as guardians, and that the Court of
Chancery was better fitted to take an account for rents, profits,
and improvements, and might decide the question of title as
'incidental to the account.
In reply to these points, Mr. Justice Campbell remarked
that "there are precedents in which the right of an infant
to treat a person who enters upon his estate with notice of his
title, as guardian or bailiff, and to exact an account in equity
for the profits for the whole period of his occupancy, is recognized." "But," he added, "in those cases the title must, if
disputed, be established at law, or other grounds of jurisdiction
must be shown." " Nor can the court retain the bill under an
impression that a court of chancery is better adapted for the
adjustment of the account for rents, profits, and improvements.
The rule of the court is, that when a suit for the recovery of
the possession can be properly brought in a court of equity, and
a,decree is given, that court will direct an account as an incident in the cause. But when a party has a right to a possession which he can enforce at law, his right to the rents and
profits is also a legal right, and must be enforced in the same
jurisdiction. The instances where bills for an account of rents
and profits have been maintained are those in which special
grounds have been stated, to show that courts of law could not
give a plain, adequate, and complete remedy. No instances
exist where a person who had been successful at law has been
allowed to file a bill for an account of rents and profits during
the tortious possession held against him, or in which the complexity of the account has afforded a motive for the interposition of the Court of Chancery to decide the title and to adjust
the account."
Thise principles were announced in a case for the recovery of the possession of real estate held adversely, but they
are of general application, and embrace, as well, the case of

ROOT V. RAILWAY CO.

[Sup. Ct.

torts to personalty, and infringements of patent and copy
rights.
The distinct ground upon which the opposite view is presented to us in argument is, that the infringer of a patent-right
is, by construction of law, a trustee of the profits derived from
his wrong, for the patentee, and that a court of equity, in the
exercise of its acknowledged jurisdiction over trusts an4 trustees, will require him to account as trustee, without reference
to any other relief. And in support of this contention we are
referred to passages in the judgments of this court in the cases'
of Packet Company v. Silcles, Burdell v. Denig, and Birdsall v.
Coolidge, all of which have been already cited in this opinion,
supra, pp. 198, 199.
But the inference sought to be drawn from the expressions
referred to is not warranted. It is true that it is declared in
those cases that, in suits in equity for relief against infringements of patents, the patentee, succeeding in establishing his
right, is entitled to an account of the profits realized by the
infringer, and that the rule, for ascertaining the amount of such
profits is that of treating the infringer as though he were a
trustee for the patentee, in respect to profits. But it is nowhere said that the patentee's right to an account is based upon
the idea that there is a fiduciary relation created between him
and the wrong-doer by the fact of infringement, thus conferring
jurisdiction upon a court of equity to administer the trust and
to compel the trustee to account. That would be a reductio ad
absurdum, and, if accepted, would extend the jurisdiction of
equity to every case of tort, where the wrong-doer had realized
a pecuniary profit from his wrong. All that was meant in the
opinions referred to was to declare according to what rule of
computation and measurement the compensation of a complainant would be ascertained in a court of equity, which,
having acquired jurisdiction upon some equitable grounds to
grant relief, would retain the cause for the sake of administering an entire remedy and complete justice, rather than send
him to a court of law for redress in a second action. The rule
adopted was that which the court in fact applies in cases of
trustees who have committed breaches of trust by an unlawful
use of the trust property for their own advantage ; that is, to

Oct. 1881.]

ROOT V. RAILWAY

CO.

require them to refund the amount of profit which they have
actually realized. This rule was adopted, not for the purpose
of acquiring jurisdiction, but, in cases where, having jurisdiction
to grant equitable relief, the court was not permitted by the
principles and practice in equity to award damages in the
sense in which the law gives them, but a substitute for damages,
at the election of the complainant, for the purpose of preventing multiplicity of suits. And the particular rule was formulated, as will be seen by reference to the cases already referred
to, out of tenderness to defendants in order to mitigate the
severity of the punishment to which they might be subjected
in an action at law for damages, and because it was thought
more equitable merely to deprive them of the actual profits
arising from their wrong, than to make no allowances, in esti
mating damages, for the cost and expense of the business in the
prosecution of which they had violated the rights of the com)lainant. The same reason operated in the establishment of
the similar rule acted upon in the cases of Hilton v. Woods
and Jegon v. Vivian, already cited in a previous part of this
opinion, supra, p. 209. The rule itself is reasonable and
just, though sometimes perverted and abused. It has been
constantly acted upon by the courts. But it is a rule of administration and not of jurisdiction ; and although the creature of
equity, it is recognized as well at law as one of the measures,
though not the limit, for the recovery of damages.
The case is not withinthe principle, according to which, in
certain circumstances, a court of equity decrees a wrong-doer

to be a trustee de son tort, and exerts its jurisdiction over him
in that character. Where a defendant has wrongfully intermeddled with property already impressed with a trust, he may
be required as a trustee to account for it, as was done in the
case of -People v. Jloughtaling (7 Cal. 348), because trust property may be followed, wherever it can be traced, into whosesoever possession it comes, except that of a bona fide purchaser
without notice. It is the character of the property, and not
the wrong done in converting or withholding it, that constitutes
the wrong-doer a trustee.
Our conclusion is, that a bill in equity for a naked account of
profits and damages against an infringer of a patent cannot be

ROOT V. RAILWAY CO.

[Sup. Ct.

sustained ;. that such relief ordinarily is incidental to some other
equity, the right to enforce which secures to the patentee his
standing in court; that the most general ground for equitable
interposition is, to insure to the patentee the enjoyment of his
specific right by injunction against a continuance of the infringernent; but, that grounds of equitable relief may arise,
other than by way of injunction, as where the title of the complainant is equitable merely, or equitable interposition is
necessary on account of the impediments which prevent a
resort to remedies purely legal ; and such an equity may arise
out of, and inhere in, the nature of the account itself, springing from special and peculiar circumstances which disable the
patentee from a recovery at law altogether, or render his
remedy in a legal tribunal difficult, inadequate, and incomplete ; and as such cases cannot be defined more exactly, each
must rest upon its own particular circumstances, as furnishing
a clear and satisfactory ground of exception from the general
rule.
The case of Garth v. Cotton (1 Dick. 183) furnishes an interesting and curious illustration of one of the excepted cases.
In that case Lord Hardwicke sustained a bill in equity, in a
case of waste, for an account of timber felled and sold, where
there could be no injunction, in favor of a complainant unborn
at the time of its commission, whose estate was a contingent
remainder, supported by a limitation to trustees to preserve it,
the defendant being the owner of a prior term of years, and
the ultimate remainder-man in fee. The Lord Chancellor
proceeded on the ground of collusion between the defendants
and a nominal or imputed breach of trust on the part of the
trustees to preserve the contingent remainder in permitting the
wrong; and distinguished the case from Jesus College v. Bloom
(3 Atk. 262), particularly on the ground that the complainant
could have no remedy at law. Another instance of an exception is mentioned by Vice-Chancellor Page-Wood in the extract
from his judgment in the case of Smith v. The London ' Southwestern Railway Co. (Kay, 408), contained in a previous part
of this opinion.
It does not appear from the allegations of the bill in the
present case that there are any circumstances which would

Oct. 1881.]

NATIONAL BANK V. WATSONTOWN

BANK.

render an action at law for the recovery of damages an inadequate remedy for the wrongs complained of ; and, as no ground
for equitable relief is presented, we are of opinion that the Circuit Court did not err in sustaining the demurrer and dismissing
the bill.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUsTICE GRAY did not sit in this case, nor take any
part in deciding it.

NATIONAL

BANK V. WATSONTOWN

BANK.

1. The statute of Pennsylvania (infra, p. 220), declaring that the stock of a bank
shall be transferable only on the books in such manner as the by-laws shall
ordain, and that no stockholder shall be authorized to transfer his stock
until his debt is discharged or secured to the satisfaction of the directors,
does not prohibit the bank from waiving its right, nor the cashier from
acting for them, by an authority, either express or implied.
2. A. borrowed money of B., to whom lie assigned and delivered his certificate
of stock as collateral security, with authority to sell in case of default in
payment. On A.'s default B. sent the certificate to the cashier of the bank,
who made the requisite entries on the stock ledger which lie kept, it being
the only book, except the book of certificates, showing the transfers of stock,
and it was his practice to keep the account of such transfers without consulting in each case the directors. The latter had adopted no by-law on the
subject. On B.'s instructing the cashier to sell the stock, the latter informed him that it would not be necessary to send him a certificate, but to
forward a power of attorney, which B. did. Part of the stock was sold, the
proceeds were remitted, and the proper entries made on the stock ledger.
A. subsequently became insolvent. He was indebted to the bank, and on
the directors refusing to approve the transfer B. brought suit to compel
the issue to him of the customary certificate of stock. Held, 1. That as
between A. and B. the title to the stock passed by A.'s delivery of the certificate with the accompanying power of attorney. 2. That the acts of the
cashier were binding on the bank, and the transfer by him made on the
stock ledger vested in B. a complete and unincmnbered title to the stock,
and a right to time usual certificate as evidence of his ownership. 3. That
had B. acquired merely an equity based on his contract, the legal right of
the bank to assert its lien was lost by its own laches, and the enforcement
of it would, under the circumstances, operate as a fraud.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the

Western District of Pennsylvania.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

