Oct. 1881.]

FRENCH v. GAPEN.

nary inquiry as to the government's liability. This inquiry
was probably directed to be made from the fact that doubts
may have existed in the minds of some members of the
legislative body whether the reservation referred to did not
exonerate the United States from any obligation to make colnpensation. In my opinion it did not. I think, therefore, that
the appellant was entitled to a decree in its favor, and that

the decree of the Circuit Court dismissing the bill should be
reversed.

Faioxcn v. GAPEN.
SPEARS v. GAPEN.
The legislation of the State of Indiana touching the water-power of the Wabash
and Eric Canal, and the rights of certain parties thereto acquired under that
legislation, considered.
Ield, 1. That the contractor who, pursuant to his bid
under the act of Jan. 9, 1842 (ifma, p. 510), performed the work, acquired, until
be should be fully paid therefor, a property right in the rents of the waterpower which he rendered available, and the State became a trustee to collect
fu, p. 514) the mill-owner
and pay them to him. 2. That by his contract (i '/i
secured, without payment of rent, the right to draw water to his mill from
the canal, as long as the latter yielded a surplus beyond the amount required
for navigation and for furnishing the earlier leases. 3.. That the title to the.
property, which the State conveyed to the board of trustees of the canal, was
subject to the rights so acquired and secured. 4. That where, by a decree
rendered in a suit whereto the board and the holder of the certificates of
stock provided for in the conveyance of the State to the trustees were parties, the part of the canal to which those rights attached was sold and the
fund brought into court, the contractor and the mill-owner can intervene in
order that their respective rights, either upon the fluid or against the purchaser, may be ascertained and determined.

APPEALS from the Circuit Court of the United States for

the District of Indiana.
The facts are fully stated in the opinion of the court.

The cases were argued by M3r. John Morris, Ji-.

Ralph

Hill, and Mr. Samuel Shellabarqcr for the appellants, and
by -M'. Solomon Claypool and ir. R. S. Taylor for the appellees.

Fw:',NCH v. GAPEN.

[Sup. Ct.

CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
M.
court.
The State of Indiana constructed the Wabash and Erie
Canal from La Fayette, on the Wabash River, through Delphi
and Fort Wayne, to the Ohio State line. To meet the expense
of this undertaking a large bonded debt was created, and secured in a general way by statutory provisions of a character
similar to those contained in sect. 5 of an act of Jan. 9, 1832,
authorizing the first issue of bonds, and which is as follows: "That for the payment of the interest, and the redemption of the
principal oh the StLMs of money which may be borrowed under the
authority of the General Assembly, fbr the construction of said canal,
-to the extent of the estimated cost thereof; in the first section of this
act stated, there shall be, and are hereby, irrevocably pledged and
appropriated all the moneys in any manner arising from the lands
donated by the United States to this State for the construction of
said section of canal, the canal itself; with the said portion of land
thereto appertaining, or as much thereof as will realize by sale the
sum borrowed, and all privileges thereby created, and the rents and
profits thereof belonging to the State, and the net proceeds of tolls
collected on said canal, or any part thereof as finished; the sufliciency of which, for the purposes aforesaid, as above allowed and
provided fbr, the State of Indiana doth hereby irrevocably guarantee." Acts 1832, p. 2.
From the beginning, the use of water for hydraulic purposes,
when not needed for navigation, seems to have been contemplated, and ample provision was made by statute for acquiring
the necessary land and effecting leases of power. With a view
to this end, the following " Act relative to water-power at the
town of Delphi " was passed and approved Jan. 9, 1842 : " SE Cr. 1. Be it enacted by the GeneralAssembly of the State
qf Indiana,that it shall be the duty of the engineer, or other person having charge of' the Wabash & Erie Canal, on or before the
first (lay of May next, to let by contract, to the lowest bidder, the
clearing out and removing all obstructions from the bayou which extends firom the canal, at the said town, to the Wabash River, for the
purpose of creatinT water-power upon the said canal at that place.
"SECT. 2. Be it ftrther enacted, that said engineer or other
person, before letting the said work, shall give public notice of the

Oct. 1881.]

FRENCH V. GAPEN.

terms, conditions, and also the time of the said letting, by publishing the same in the newspapers printed in the said county, for two

months, at least, previous to the time of said letting: Provided,
that the said works shall be finished within six months friom the
time of said letting.
"SECT. 3. -Be it further enacted, that the said engineer, or person having charge of that part of the cmial, shall cause the work to
be estimated when the same is completed, and shall give to the
person doing the same a draft or other evidence of indebtedness,
specifying what the same was given for, and the anonunt dne him as
by the said contract, and for the purpose of paying for the said work,
the rents that may be received by the State for water-poiwer created
by this act shall be appropriated for that purpose, and to no other
purpose; and the person or persons doing the said work shl look
to the said rents for their pay, and to no other source' whatever;
and as fast as the said rents may be due or received, they shall be expended in paying for the said work until the whole amiloun1lt is paid.
SEcT. 4. Be itfitother e acted, that so soon as the said work is
let to some responsible person, it shall be the duty of the said
engineer, or other person, to lease out a portion of the water-power
by this act created, not, exceeding ini all what would be sufflicient
to propel thirty 11m of stones, at the same prices and upon the same
terms and conditions as water-power iinder similar adNvantages is
leased at other places upon tile said caial, and it is made the duty
of the said engineer, or other person, before leasing the same, to
give at least two months' notice of the time, terms, and conditions
upon which the same will be ]eased, in the newspapers published in
the said county.
" SECT. 5. Be itfrtlher enacted, that it shall be the duty of the
said engineer, or other person, as the agent oi behalf of the State,
for the purpose (f securing to the State the advantages by this act
contemplated, to purchase of the owner or owners of land lying
adjacent to the place where said water-power is to be located, such
real estate, not exceeding in all fiu acres, as mmlay be necessary to
carry into effect the provisions of this act, at such reasonable prices
as may be agreed upon by the said agent and the owner or owners
thereof; and in case of disagreement at such prices as may be fixed
by persons chosen by the said agent and tie said owners: Provided, that in no ease shall the prices paid by the State for such land
exceed what has heretofbre been paid for such property under the
same or similar advantages, and for such real estate so purchased
the said agent shall take a conveyance to the State by deed in fee-

FRENCH V. GAPEN.

[Sup. Ct.

simple: And provided further, that nothing in this act contained
shall be so construed as to authorize any interference whatever
with the navigation of said canal.
" SECT. 6. Be it farther enacted, that this law shall be in force
from and after its passage."
Under the authority of this act, James Spears and Reed
Case entered into a contract with the State to do the work
required upon the terms proposed, and before the 1st of December, 1843, had it all done. On the 19th of January, 1846,
another act was passed, by which it was made the duty of the
officer having charge of the canal east of Tippecanoe to settle
as soon as possible with the contractors, and give them a certificate for the amount found their due, to be paid out of the
rents derived from the power created by what had been done,
and also providing that the certificate should draw interest
from the time the contract was completed until paid.
The settlement contemplated by this act was effected on the
29th of September, 1847, and the following certificate issued: "DELPm, Sep. 29, 1847.
I hereby certify that Spears & Case have performed work to
the value of $10,854 o%- in cleaning out the bayou which extendIs
from the canal at Delphi to the Wabash River, estimating according to the terms of a contract between said Spears & Case and S.
Fisher, commissioner of' the W. & E. Canal, dated May 1, 1842,
made in pursuance of an act entitled IAn Act relative to waterpower at the town of Delphi, in Carroll County, approved January
20, 1842.' And according to the provisions of an act entitled I An
Act authorizing a settlement with Spears & Case for work done on
the side cut at Delphi, in Carroll Cointy, approved January 19,
1846,' the said Spears & Case are entitled to receive interest on
said sum until paid. And I certify also that said work was performed prior to the first day of December, 1843.
C S. FISHER,

Gen'l Siqp't W. &' E. (anal."
On the twenty-ninth day of May, 1846, the State leased to
George Robertson, at an agreed rent, a sufficient amount of
power made available by the work done by Spears & Case
to propel three run of stone. Of this lease Enoch Rheinbart
ie still uses the water.
is the present assignee and owner.

Oct. 1881.]

FRENCH

v. GAPEN.

All the rents derived from this lease down to Nov. 1, 1875,
have been paid and accounted for to Spears & Case.
In the construction of the canal it became necessary to take
the water from the St. Joseph River, near Fort Wayne. In
doing this the power which supplied certain mills that had
been erected on that river by Henry Johns was taken away,
and on the 11th of February, 1843, the following statute was
passed for his relief : "AN ACT for the relief' of Henry Johns.
WIEREAS, Henry Johns, of the county of Allen, previous to
the commencement of the Wabash & Erie Canal, was the owner
of a valuable mill privilege or water-power on the St. Joseph River,
and had erected valuable mills thereon ; and whereas, the State of
Indiana did afterwards erect a feeder-dam, to supply with water
the summit level of the Wabash and Erie Canal, above the mills
erected by said Johns, on the St. Joseph River, thereby abstracting from the mills afbresaid about 5,000 cubic tret of water per
minute, which, in low stages of water, is all the water contained in
the said river St. Joseph, and renders wholly useless the mills
erected by said Johns ; therefore " SECT. 1. -Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State
of Indiana,that the commissioner of the W¢abash and Erie Canal
be, and is hereby, directed to cause to be supplied to the said Henry
Johns, his heirs and assigns forever, from the Wabash and Erie
Canal, at the town of Fort Wayne, in the county of Allen, on land
now owned or to be purchased by said Johns, a sufficient quantity
of water to propel three pair of burr millstones free of any toll or
water-rent, and continue to supply the same for the use of said
Johns, his heirs and assigns forever, at all times when the same
shall not be needed to fill the contracts heretofore made with Samuel Edsall and Hamilton & Williams, or required for the purpose
of navigating said canal: Providecl, that the said Johns shall, for
himself, his heirs and assigns, release to the State of Indiana all
claims against the State for the abstraction of water friom the St.
Joseph River to supply the Wabash and Erie Canal, and shall also
credit in full any or aill awards or judgments that shall have been
recovered by said Johns against the State fbr the abstraction of
any water-power.
" SECT. 2. This act shall take effect and be in force from and
after its passage."
VOL. XV.

33

FRENCH V. GAPEN.

[Sup. Ct.

In accordance with the provisions of this statute, and to
carry it into effect, the following agreement was entered into
between Johns and the State on the 6th of July, 1843 : "This agreement, made this sixth day of July, 1843, between
the State of Indiana, party of the first part, by S. Fisher, commissioner of the Wabash and Erie Canal, thereto duly authorized by
law, and Henry Johns, of the second part, witnesseth :
" That said party of the first part, in consideration of the covenants and releases hereinafter contained, and upon the express tondition that the party of the second part shall at all times comply
with all and singular the limitations and conditions hereinafter
contained, and shall, in every respect, perfoirm all the stipulations
of the agreement by said party to be performed, agrees to lease to
said party of the second part forever, snbject to the restrictions,
limitations, and conditions hereinafter contained, the use and occpation of so much of' the surplis water (not reqnired for purposes
of navigation, or to fill the contracts heretofore made with Samuel
Edsall and Hlamfilton & Williams), at the town of Fort Wayne, to
be used on lot nminber nine (9) of the county addition to said
town, as will be sfficient, when properly applied on an overshot
wheel of sixteen fbet diameter, with the proper gearing, to be
approved by the commissioner of said canal, to propel three run of
four-and-a-half-feet millstones, grinding at the rate of five bushels
per hour each, to be applied to such manufictoring purposes as the
said second party may choose. It is understood that the second
party to this agreement is entitled to the same quantity of water,
whenever there is a surplus in the canal as above, that Allen Hamnilton and Jesse L. Williamus are entitled to inder the lease bearing
(late 29th of November, 1842. The water will be taken by a
head-race from the canal, at the place above described, and after
passing over the wheel will be eonduc ed by a suitable tail-race,
into the St. Mary's River. The flow of water to the wheel will be
regulated and controlled by a permanent regulating weir, to be
construeted in the most substantial manner, with stone side and
breast walls, agreeably to a plan to be flurnished by the commissioner of the canal, to be built in every respect according to his
directions, as not to endanger the safety of the canal in any manner whatever. And it is understood that the necessary regulating
weir, head-race, and trunk to conduct the water to the wheel, and
the tail-race to pass it from the wheel as above specified, are to be
constructed by the party of the second part at his own expense and

Oct. 1881.]

FRENCH V. GAPEN.

according to the direction of the commissioner aforesaid, and to be
kept in good repair, so as to prevent the waste of water; and if at
any time during the continuance of this lease any breach or other
injury shall occur to the canal in consequence of the race or trunk
not being faithfully constructed, or being suffered to be out of
repair, or from any negligence of any person employed about the
mills, then the said party of the second part shall forfeit and pay
to the State the whole cost of repairing such breach or injury ; and
if the said party of the second part shall refuse or neglect to rebuild, repair, or strengthen said regulating weir or other works
necessary to the security of the canal, after being notified in writing by the commissioner, superintendent, or other proper agent of
the State that such removal is necessary for the safety of the canal,
such refusal or neglect shall subject the party of the second part
to a forfeiture of this contract or lease at the option of the coinmissioner or other agent of the State thereto duly authorized.
1 It is expressly understood by the parties hereunto that the
first party does not agree to furnish water to the second party
except at such times as there is a surplus over and above what is
required for purposes of navigation and to supply existing contracts with Samuel Edsall and Hamilton & Williams. And the
right is also reserved by the first party to draw the water from the
canal whenever it may be necessary to repair or prevent breaches,
take out bars, or make any repairs whatever.
" And the second party, for and in consideration of the right to
the use and occupation of said water, agrees to release, and does
hereby release, fbr himself, his heirs and assigns forever, all claim
or claims against the State of Indiana for damages heretofore done
or that may hereafter be done to any property now or heretofore
owned by him, the said Henry Johns, in consequence of diverting
water from the St. Joseph River to supply the Wabash and Erie
Canal and the mills erected or to be erected thereon or supplied
therefrom.
"And the said Henry Johns hereby releases to the State of
Indiana all his right and title to the water flowing in the St.
Joseph River whenever the same may be necessary fbr the supply
of the canal and mills aforesaid.
"And the said Henry Johns acknowledges the foregoing lease
as being in full payment for all awards of damages heretofore niade
and for all damages done or hereafter to be done by diverting the
water as aforesaid.
" And it is understood by the parties hereto that the second

[Sup. Cc.

FRENCH v. GAPEN.

party is to pay no rent other than releasing the first party from the
payment of damages as above ; and this agreement is made in
pursuance of and with a view to carry out an act of the legislature,
entitled ' An Act for the relief of Henry Johns,' approved Feb. 11,
1843.
" In testimony whereof we, the parties to this agreement, have
hereunto set our hands and seals the day and year first above
written.
[SEAL.]
S. FIsIHER,
Com. TV &_E. Canal.
"HENRY
"

JOHNS.

[SEAL.]

Signed and sealed in presence of" ALEX. MCCULLOCH."

All the rights conferred by this agreement or grant are now
owned by French, Hanna, & Co.
The State having become embarrassed by reason of its large
indebtedness, growing out of the construction of this canal and
other public improvements, passed an act, on the 19th of Jannary, 1846, to provide for the liquidation of the debt, by which
new certificates of State stock were to be issued. One of
these certificates, representing one half the debt, was to be
provided for by taxation in the usual way, and the other, representing the other half, out of the lands, tolls, and revenues
of the canal. As an instrument for carrying into effect the
arrangement in respect to the half of the debt payable out of
the tolls, &c., the board of trustees of the Wabash and Erie
Canal was created and constituted a body corporate, to which,
on the 30th of July, 1847, a conveyance was executed as provided for in sect. 8 of the act, which is as follows: "SECT. 8. So soon as said trustees shall have been elected or
appointed as aforesaid, it shall be the duty of the governor, in
the name and under the seal of the State, to execute and deliver to
said trustees, by the corporate name of the board of trustees of the
Wabash and Eric Canal, a deed or patent for the bed of the Wabash and Erie Canal, and its extensions, finished and to be finished,
from the Ohio State line to Evansville, including its banks, margins,
tow-paths, side-cuts, feeders, basins, right of way, locks, dams, waterpower, and structures, and all materials provided or collected for its
construction ; and all the property, right, title, and interest of the
State in and to the same, with all its appurtenances ; and also all the

Oct. 1881.]

FRENCH V. GAPEN.

lands and lots (not sold or disposed of) heretofore given, granted, or
donated by the general government to the State, to aid in the construction of said canal, or any part of it, or which may be hereafter
acquired under or by reason of any existing grant, and all moneys due

and to grow due, and remaining unpaid on account of any sale or
sales heretofore made of any canal lands so donated, and all moneys
due or to grow due on account of any existing leases of any waterpower or other privilege on said canal, its side-cuts, fbeders, basins,
or other appurtenances ; said board of trustees to have, hold, possess, and enjoy the same as fully and absolutely as the State can or
could do ; subject, nevertheless, to all existing rights and equities
against the State on account of the same, or any part thereof; or
liabilities of the State growing out of, or in relation thereto ; and
tile same to be held by said trustees in trust and security for the
uses and purposes following, that is to say -"
It is unimportant in this case to notice the specifications
in respect to the trust any further than to say that the trustees
were given no power to sell the canals.
The trustees took possession under this conveyance, and on
the 5th of July, 1852, executed to Spears, Case, and James P.
Dugai a lease of water at Delphi equivalent to three millstone power, reserving a certain agreed rent. This lease is
now owned and the power used by Abner H4. Owen, and the
trustees accounted to Spears & Case for all rents collected
under its provisions down to Nov. 1, 1875.
On the 19th of November, 1874, Jonathan k. Gapen, a
holder of certain of the certificates of stock provided for in
the conveyance to the trustees, filed a bill in equity in the
court below, against the trustees, in behalf of himself and the
other holders of the same class of securities, setting forth, in
substance, that by reason of the failure of revenues from the
canal it was impossible to keep it in a condition for use ; that
the trust was insolvent and the trust property rapidly falling
into decay, and praying " that the pledge and appropriation
recited in said stocks shall be effectuated and the said canal
and its appurtenances and lands may be decreed to be sold in
such manner and on such terms as the court may deem best
for the interests of those entitled to share ill the proceeds
thereof, and so as to bring the highest price therefor, and so as to

FRENCH

V. GAPEN.

[Sup. Ct.

vest title in the purchaser or purchasers thereof, with the right
and duty to impose, maintain, and operate the same and receive
and enjoy the future tolls and revenues thereof as fully in all
respects as the State might originally have done, and on such
sale being made and the proceeds brought into court, your orator prays that the said fund may be divided among himself
and all other holders of said canal stocks according as their
Iseveral ownerships, amounts, and priorities may
be from time
to time established to the satisfaction of the court and so
decreed."
To this suit neither Spears & Case, nor Johns, nor any one
representing their interests, was made a party. The trustees
of the canal were the only defendants, and on the 24th of
December, 1875, a decree was made " that the Wabash and
Erie Canal, including its banks, margins, tow-paths, side-cuts,
feeders, basins, rights of way, locks, dams, water-powers, and
structures, together with all its appurtenances; also all lands
and lots . . . belonging to the trust and vested in the trustees of the Wabash and Erie Canal," be sold. Under this
decree all that part of the main line of the canal from the
western boundary of the city of Lafayette to the Ohio State
line was sold to William Fleming for $85,500. This sale was
confirmed on the 12th of February, 1877.
On the 7th of July, 1877, before any final distribution of
the proceeds of the sale had been made, Spears, for himself
and as surviving partner of the late firm of Spears & Case,
and the widow and children of Case, who had before that
time died, filed an intervening petition, called in the record a
cross-bill, in which they set forth their connection with the
water-power at Delphi, substantially as has been already
stated, and alleged that there was still due them from the
State, on the certificate which they held, the sum of $24,678.86.
They then averred that the purchasers of the canal had collected the water-rents under the leases owned by Rheinhart
and Bowen that fell due after Nov. 1, 1875, and refused to account to them, and that there was sufficient surplus water in
the canal at Delphi to supply power for the stipulated amount
of thirty run of stone, which the trustees had declined to lease
previously to the sale.

Oct, 1881.]

1FiENCH V. GAPEN.

TIe prayer of their petition is as follows: " That upon the final hearing of this cause the court will
order, adjudge, and decree that the sum which shall be found
to be due to the plaintiffs shall lie paid by the said Samuel B.
Gookins, as such receiver, out of the funds now in his hands ;
or if the court shall be of opinion that the plaintiffs are not
legally entitled to any relief hereinbefore prayed for, then
they pray that it shall be ordered, adjudged, and decreed by
the court that they be entitled to demand and receive from the
said lessees and their assigns all suns of money due from them
for the rent of the water-power, as aforesad, or that may
accrue from the first day of May, 1877 ; that a receiver be appointed to take charge of the said water-power, manage and control the same, and collect the rents therefrom, and apply the
same to the payment of the claim of the plaintiffs until the
same is fully paid, and that the said receiver shall be authorized and empowered to make such additional leases of the said
water-power as can be safely done without interfering with the
navigation of the said canal, but not to exceed thirty run of
stone; that the said purchasers and owners of the said canal
from the city of Logansport to the city of Lafayette, as aforesaid, be required to keep and maintain the danl, lock, and canal
in good condition ; to preserve and maintain said water-power
at the said city of Delphi, and that the said receiver be required to compel the lessees of the said water-power to keep
and perform the stipulations contained in the leases aforesaid,
as to making of repairs of the said canal ; and for all other and
further relief to which the plaintiffs are entitled by virtue of
matters and things hereinbefore stated."
On the 15th of May, 1878, French, Hanna, & Co., as assignees of Johns, filed their intervening petition in the cause, also
called in the record a cross-bill, in which they set forth the
facts in relation to the power granted to Johns, substantially
as has already been stated, and then averred as follows:Your petitioners further show that, in expectation of the
permlanent enjoyment of said water-power, they have erected
large and extensive woollen mills on said lot nine (9) in Fort
Wayne, at a cost of 925,000, and for many years have been
operating the same by means of said water-power on said

FiiNCH V.

GAPEN.

[Sup. Ct.

canal so granted to said Johns, and thence conveyed to them ;
that the part of said canal in Allen County, including that
supplying said water-power, is still kept up by said purchasers.
That said water-power is of 4reat value to your petitioners, as
was the grant made by said Johns on the river for the same;
that the annual value of said water-power is at least $1,500,
and the aggregate value of the same is not less than $25,000,
and in the sale of said canal the water-power so granted to said
Johns and now owned by petitioners added at least $20,000 to
the price paid, and to the fund now in court. Your petitioners
further show that by said sale so made of said canal property,
of every nature and description, a large fund, to wit, $150,000,
has been realized, and is now in the custody of this court, and
that of said fund at least $50,000 has been derived from the
sale of that part of said canal which is supplied with water
only by the feeder constructed to divert the water, and from
the water in fact diverted from the St. Joseph River above the
mill of said Johns, as aforesaid, and which was so ceded by said
Johns to the State, as aforesaid, and that of said $50,000 so
realized, at least four-fifths was derived from the sale of the
water-powers on said canal made by the water so diverted from
the mill of said Johns and ceded to the State, as aforesaid, as
the condition for the grant of said perpetual water-power to
him; that said purchasers contend that said property was sold
to them absolutely free and clear of all claims of your petitioners ; while it is, on the other hand, pretended by the receiver
and said trustees that your petitioners have no claim whatever
on said funds, whereas your petitioners insist that, as they had
a claim in the nature of a personal liability against said State,
that the same was assumed by said trustees, and that their said
clain was and is a charge not only on said fund, but that it
also follows said property into whosesoever hands it passes.",
The prayer of the petition is as follows: " But insomuch as there is great danger that, from the abandonment of said canal as a public highway, it may go to ruin,
and your petitioners' claim upon the property itself become of
little value, and by reason of your petitioners' manifest equity
in the premises, and forasmuch as this large fund, so derived
from the sale of said property, is now in the custody of this

Oct. 1881.]

FRENCH V. GAPEN.

court for distribution to all parties equitably interested therein,
and forasmuch as all the parties, as well the purchasers as the
original complainants and defendants herein, are still before
the court for the settlement of all equities in the premises;
" Your petitioners pray that they have leave to file this
their intervening petition; that said parties to this original
suit, the said Samuel B. Gookins, as such receiver, and the
said William Fleming, John H. Bass, Oscar A. Simons, James
Lillie, George J. Bippus, and Robert Simonton, as purchasers,
and each of them, be required to make full and true answer in
the premises, and show, if they can, why your petitioners should
not be paid out of said fund any damages which they may sustain by reason of the abandonment of said canal by the State
and by said trustees, and why the estate of said purchasers in
said property shall not be declared to be servient to that of
your petitioners, and upon the hearing will your Honors grant
to your petitioners all such relief as may be just, equitable,
and proper."
In each of the petitions it was stated that Fleming, the original purchaser, had transferred a part of the property to others.
All these purchasers, as well as Fleming, the trustees of the
canal, Gapen, and Gookins, who in the progress of the cause
had been appointed receiver, were named in the petitions as
defendants, and they all appeared and filed demurrers. These
demurrers were sustained below and the petitions dismissed.
From the decrees to that effect the present appeals were taken.
The first questions to be settled relate to the rights of Spears
& Case, Johns, and the trustees of the canal respectively, under
their several contracts with the State.
1. As to Spears & Case.
To our minds it is clear that the effect of what was done
with these parties was to convey to them a property right in
the rents produced by leasing the water-power made available
through their work, to continue until the compensation stipulated for was paid in full. The State assumed no pecuniary
obligation in the contract that was made, and Spears & Case
agreed to look only to the rents for their pay. To this end,
the State " appropriated," that is to say, set apart, the rents
for the use of Spears & Case, and made itself a trustee to col-

FRENCTI V. GAPEN.

[SUP. Ct.

lect and pay them over as fast as received. No other reasonable construction can be given to the language of the statute on
which the rights of the parties depend. In effect the State
said to the contractors, " If you will do the work necessary to
create the power, or, in other words, if you will make the water
in the canal available for power at the place designated, you
shall have the revenues which accrue from the use of the power
so created and made available, until you are paid for your work
at the agreed rate." The undertaking on the part of the State
was not to pay out of a particular fund, but that the fund
when raised should belong to the contractors. The debt was
in reality not a charge against the State, but against the waterpower. The language of this statute is even more explicit
than that of the fifth section of the act of 1832, which this
court held, in Trustees of the Wabash & Erie Canal Co. v.
Beers (2 Black, 448), created, as security for the bonds that
were issued, a lien on the canal, its lands and revenues, which
could not be divested by any subsequent legislation. Here the
very statute which authorized the creation of the power " appropriated " the revenue to be derived from the power primarily to the payment of the expense of its creation, and expressly
provided that payment of such expense should not be made in
any other way. Not only did the contractors agree to look
alone to the rents for their compensation, but the State appropriated the rents to their use. The giving and taking operated,
at least in equity, as a complete transfer.
Our conclusion then is, that from the time Spears & Case
completed the work under their contract, the State held the
water-power made available by what they had done to the extent of the amount required to propel thirty run of stone, in
trust to lease on the terms and conditions specified, whenever
it could be done without detriment to navigation, and pay over
the rents as received to Spears & Case until their claim was
satisfied. In fact the State never became the beneficial owner
of the power that was created. From the time of its creation
it belonged in equity to Spears & Case until their charge upon
it was paid. The State held the legal title coupled with authority to make the contemplated leases, but this was to be for
the use and benefit of Spears & Case so long as anything

Oct. 1881.]

FRENCH

v.

GAPEN.

remained due to them for what they had done.

Such was the

manifest intention of the parties, and that, in a court of equity,
is enough. Ketchum v. St. Louis, 101 U. S. 306. It is no
doubt true that Spears & Case in their contract assumed the
risk of a loss of the power by the decay or destruction of the

canal, and that the State was under no binding obligation to
keep up the repairs so as to supply the power; but that is not
the case presented by this demurrer, for it is expressly averred
that the canal is still maintained, and that the water is being

furnished to the different lessees under their respective leases.
For all the purposes of the present appeal, we must take that

averment as true. If the facts are otherwise, it may, perhaps,
be shown in defence.
2. As to Johns and his assignees.

Here, we think, was an absolute grant, for a valuable consideration, by the State to Johns, of the right to draw water from
the canal for the purpose and on the terms and conditions specified. It was not a grant of the lands on which the canal was

built, but of the right to draw water from the canal to be used
in lieu of that which had been taken away. Originally Johns
took the power directly from the river to his mill. Under his
grant he was allowed to draw it through the canal, subject to
the limitations and restrictions provided for. The only substantial difference between his rights and those of the other
lessees of power was, that they were to pay rent at stated periods for the water they used, while he wvas to draw without
payment of rent, in consideration of his release of the damages
lie had sustained by the diversion of the water from the river

to the canal.

What lie got was the grant of a right to enter

on the canal and draw water therefrom to his mill whenever
and so long as there was a surplus over what was wanted for
navigation and the supply of the earlier leases. This was a
property right, and the legitimate subject of grant. De Titt v.
Ilarvy, 4 Gray (Mass.), 486. Johns could not, any more than
Spears & Case, compel the State to keep the canal in repair so
as to give him the water ; but a long as the canal was maintained and the water furnished, lie had the right to draw. In
this petition, as in that of Spears & Case, it is expressly averred
that the canal is still maintained and supplied with water.

FiiENCH v. GAPEN.

rSup. Ct.

3. As to the trustees of the canal.
By an express provision in the grant to the trustees their
title was made subject to all existing rights and equities against
the State on account of the property conveyed, or any part
thereof, and to all liabilities of the State growing out of or in
relation thereto. In other words, the State conveyed all its remaining interest in the canal, and the trustees took what they
got, charged with the same trusts, and incumbered by the same
liabilities that rested on it when the grant was made. It follows that whatever property rights Spears & Case or Johns had
in the canal before the grant, they retained after it. All that
the State was bound to do in respect to them before, the trustees must do afterwards. As the State was the trustee of the
power at Delphi for the benefit of Spears & Case when the
transfer was made, the trustees took the title, subject to the same
trust, and became bound in respect to its management in the
same way and to the same extent the State had been until that
time. Rents collected after the transfer were as much the
property of Spears & Case, in the hands of the trustees, as they
were in the hands of the State. So, too, in respect to Johns.
Whatever water he could draw from the canal before the
transfer he was entitled to draw afterwards. All that the
State could be required to do for his benefit at the time of
the transfer, the trustees were bound to do while they held
the property. The obligations of the trustees in respect to
both these parties were precisely the same as those of the State;
no more and no less.
It only remains to consider whether the petitioners are entitled to relief in this suit and under the form of proceeding
they have adopted.
They were not originally parties to the suit. No sale of the
trust property could be made in their absence which would dispose of their rights. All that could pass under such a sale
would be that which was conveyed by the State to the trustees;
to wit, the canal, &c., subject to the prior rights of the petitioners. No decree binding on the petitioners could be rendered, defining what their rights actually were. A purchaser
would take only what the trustees held, and be left to settle
with the petitioners as best lie could.

Oct. 1881.]

FRENCH v. GAPEN.

But while the petitioners were not in fact parties, they might
with propriety have been made such, and there cannot be a
doubt that if they had intervened before the decree of sale, and
asked to be made defendants, it would have been within the
power of the court, with the consent of the complainants, to
take them in. The case did go on without them, presumably
because it nowhere appeared until their intervention that there
were any such outstanding rights as they claim. The decree,
as entered, is broad enough on its face to authorize a sale of
the property free of all incumbrances. The purchasers, acting
on the idea that they bought all the water-power in the canal,
and that the rights of the several petitioners had been extinguished, claim the rents under the Delphi leases as their
own, and. threaten to cut off the supply of water to the assignees of Johns unless rent is paid for what is used. In this
condition of things, and while the purchase-money was under
the control of the court, the petitioners intervened and asked
to have their rights in the premises determined before any final
distribution of the money was made. To their intervention no
exception is taken by any of the parties. They are, therefore,
to all intents and purposes, now to be treated as though they
had originally been made defendants and set up their demands.
It seems to us eminently proper that before the money paid
under the sale is put beyond the control of the court it should
be determined what, under the new developments, the rights
of the several parties in respect to the property in question
really are. From what appears, it is clear that the court expected to sell, and the purchasers supposed they were baying,
the whole property free of all ineumbrances. If that be so,
the money in the hands of the court may not, perhaps, improperly be treated as representing what it was supposed would
pass by the sale, rather than what actually did pass as tile
parties stood when the decree was entered. The petitioners,
in their intervening petitions, state in terms their willingness
to treat the sale as binding on them, if they can be paid from
the proceeds what in equity represents the value of their interest in the property sold. As the case now stands, we see
no reason why this may not be done. But we have only part
of the record in the original suit here, and it may be that under

FRENCH V. GAPEN.

ESup. Ct.

all the circumstances such relief would not be just to the complainants. In that event, it may be proper for the court to
consider whether the facts connected with the sale were such
as to make it inequitable to hold the purchasers to their purchase subject to the rights of the petitioners, in case they
shall elect not to be bound.
Without deciding what upon the final hearing should be the
form of relief afforded the petitioners, we are clearly of opinion
that upon the facts stated in their petitions they are entitled
to have their rights in the premises ascertained and something
done in their behalf. The prayer of the petition of Spears &
Case is for alternative relief. If it shall be determined that
their interest in the property passes by the sale, they ask to be
paid its value from the proceeds. If it does not, then they
seek to have their rights, as against the purchasers, specifically
ascertained and determined; the rents which have accrued and
which may hereafter accrue fron the Delphi leases paid over to
them, and the proper steps taken to make the unused power at
that point available for the liquidation of what is still due on
their certificate. French, Ilanna, & Co., the assignees of Johns,
ask to be paid the value of the power which was granted to
them, and for general relief. Under this prayer for general
relief the court will be authorized to establish their right to
the use of the water as granted, free of rent, in case it shall be
determined they are not entitled to be paid the value of their
power from the proceeds of the sale.
Without pursuing the inquiry further, we conclude the court
was wrong in sustaining the demurrers and dismissing the petitions. The decrees dismissing the petitions will, therefore,
be reversed, and the causes remanded with instructions to
overrule the demurrers and proceed thereafter as justice may
require, and in accordance with this opinion; and it is
So ordered.
MR. JUSTicn GRAY did not sit in these cases, nor take any
part in deciding them.

