Oct. 1881.]

POST v. SUPERVISORS.

of action founded on contracts which contain within themselves some promise or duty to be performed, and that such
contracts may be properly said to have contents.
The amended bill in this case contains no averment showing
that the suit could have been maintained by the assignors of
the contracts if no assignments had been made ; and it is
well settled that this is necessary. Tarner v. Bank of North
America, 4 Dall. 8; Mollan v. Tbrrance, 9 Wheat. 537 ; Bank
of United States v. Moss, 6 How. 31 ; Bradley v. Rhines'
Admrs., 8 Wall. 393.
We are, therefore, of opinion that the Circuit Court had no
jurisdiction of this suit. Its decree will be affirmed, with the
modification that the dismissal of the bill is wifliout prejudice to the right of the plaintiff to bring any suit he may be
advised, in the proper court; and it is
So ordered.

POST v. SUERVIsolRs.
AMOSKEAG

BANK V.

OTTAWA.

1. Whether a seeming act of the legislature is or is not a law, is a judicial question to be determined by the court, and not a question of fact to be tried by
a jury.
2. The construction uniformly given to the Constitution of it State by its highest
court is binding on the courts of the United States as a rule of decision.
3. An act of the legislature of a State, which has been held by its highest court
not to be a statute of that State, because never passed as its Constitution
requires, cannot be held by the courts of the United States, upo the same
evidence between different parties, to be a law of the State, although referred to in later statutes of the State ius an existing law, and assumed to
be such in earlier cases in the State court, in which its validity was not,
and by the settled practice of that court could not be, controverted.
4. The act of the General Assembly of Illinois of Feb. 18, 1857, purporting to
authorize the issue of certain municipal bonds, is of no force or effect, by
reason of its not appearing by the legislative journals to have been passed
as required by the Constitution of 1848.
5. Under the statute of Illinois of Feb. 12, 1849, copies of the original daily
journals kept by the clerks of each house of the legislature, made by persons contracted with or employed for the purpose, in well-bound books fur-

POST V. SUP]MVISORS.

[Sup. Ct,

nished by the secretary of state, and afterwards deposited and kept in his
office, are official records, copies of which certified by him are competent
evidence.
6. The printed journals of either house of a legislature, published in obedience
to law, are competent evidence of its proceedings.

ERooR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. Sanford B. Perry, Mr. David T. Littler, and Hr. George
S. Eldredge for the plaintiffs in error.
Mr. T. Lyle Dickey and Mr. Philip Phillips for the defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.

These actions are brought upon municipal bonds, purporting
to have been issued under an act of the General Assemblk of
Illinois of Feb. 18, 1857. The facts of the cases do not substantially differ from those which appeared when one of the
cases was before this court at October Term, 1876, and the principles then affirmed must control the present decision. See
Town of South Ottawa v. Perkins and Supervisors of Kendall
County v. Post, 94 U. S. 260. Those principles may be
summed up as follows: First, By the law of the State of Illinois, as often declared
by the Supreme Court of that State, before as well as after the
execution of the bonds in suit, the provisions of the Constitution of 1848, requiring 'ach house of the legislature to keep
and publish a journal of its proceedings, and, on the final passage of all bills, to take the vote by ayes and noes, and ordaining that no bill shall become a law without the concurrence of
a majority of all the members elect of each house, are not
merely directory; but if the journals, being produced or proved,
fail to show that an act has been passed in the mode prescribed
by the Constitution, the presumption of its validity, arising
from the signatures of the presiding officers and of the executive, is overthrown, and the act is void.
Second, Whether a seeming act of the legislature is or is
not a law is a judicial question to be determined by the court,
and not a question of fact to be tried by a jury.

Oct. 1881.]

POST V. SUPERVISORS.

Third, The construction uniformly given to the Constitution
of a State by its highest court is binding on the courts of tbe
United States as a rule of decision.
Fourth, An act of the legislature of a State, which has been
held by its highest court not to be a statute of the State, because never passed as its Constitution requires, cannot be held
by the courts of the United States, upon the same evidence, to
be a law of the State.
F-th, That which is not a law can give no validity to bonds
purporting to be issued under it, even in the hands of those
who take them for value and in the belief that they have been
lawfully issued.
It was accordingly held that the act of the General
Assembly
of Illinois of Feb. 18, 1857, under which the bonds in suit were
issued, having been adjudged by the Supreme Court of that
State in 1870 in the cases of Ryan v. Lynch (68 111. 160) and
Miller v. Goodwin (70 id. 659), upon proof that the journals
did not show it to lave been enacted in conformity with th6
requirements of the Constitution, to have never become a law,
and to have conferred no power, although referred to in later
statutes as an existing law, those decisions must govern the
action of the courts of the United States.
The weight of those decisions as authoritative expositions of
the Constitution of the State is not affected by the fact that
these plaintiffs were not parties to the suits in which they were
delivered. Township of Eloiwood v. Jlarcy, 92 U. S. 289;
Township of East Oakland v. Skinner, 94 id. 255.
Nor is it of any importance that the act of 1857 had been
assumed to be an existing law in Dunnovan v. Green (57 Ill.
63), and in Force v. Batavia (61 id. 99) ; for in each of those
cases the validity of the statute was not controverted, and by
the established practice of that court no evidence of the contents of the journals could be considered on appeal, which had
not been produced and made part of the case in the court below.
Illinois Central Railroad Co. v. Wren, 432 111. 77; Bedard v.
Hall, 44 id. 91; Grob v. Cushman, 45 id. 119. See also People
v. Dewolf, 62 id. 253, 256; Binz v. Weler, 81 id. 288, 291.
The copies of the journals, certified by the secretary of
state, and the printed journals, published in obedience to law,

POST V. SUPERVISORS.

[Sup. Ct.

are both competent evidence of the proceedings in the legislature.
By virtue of the statute of Illinois of Feb. 12, 1849,1 the
copies of the original daily journals kept by the clerks of the
two houses, made by persons contracted with or employed
for the purpose as authorized and directed by that act (though
not sworn public officers), in well-bound books furnished by
the secretary of state, pursuant to the duty thereby imposed
upon him, and afterwards deposited and kept in his office, are
official records in his custody, copies of which certified by him
are admissible upon settled rules of evidence, as well as by the
decision of the Supreme Court of Illinois in Miller v. goodwin,
above cited; and neither the competency nor the effect of such
copies is impaired by the loss or destruction of the daily jourials or minutes.
The remark of the judge delivering the opinion in illinois
Central Railroad Co. v. Wren (43 Ill. 79), " We are not aware
of any law which makes the printed jourpal evidence of the
contents of the original," was but obiter dictum (for the case was
decided upon the ground that no copy whatever of the journal
had been made part of the case before the court), and is in
conflict with the general current of decision in that court and
in this. People v. Campbell, 8 id. 466 ; Prescott v. Trustees of
Illinois lMichigan Canal, 19 id. 324; Happel v. Brethauer,70
1 By the Constitution of Illinois of 1818, art. 3, sect. 39, "the General Assembly shall provide by law that the copying, printing, binding, and distributing the

laws and journals shall be let by contract to the lowest bidder."
By the statute of Jan. 16, 1836, in force at the time of the adoption of that
Constitution, the journal of each house of the General Assembly was required
to be "kept in well-bound volumes ; " the clerks of each house were required
to furnish daily to the public printer "a copy of the journal kept by th0m respectively," and after the final adjournment to " deposit the original journals kept
by them respectively, with the secretary of state; " and the secretary of state
was required to "superintend the printing of the journals." Statutes of Illinois
of 1839, p. 551; Revised Statutes of Illinois of 1845, c. 84, sect. 3.
By the statute of Feb. 12, 1849, the secretary of state was required, before
the meeting of the General Assembly, to publish an advertisement "inviting
proposals for copying the laws, joint resolutions, and journals of the General Assembly," and to "give the contract to the lowest competent responsible bidder,"
and was also required "to furnish a well-bound book, in which the journals shall
be copied," and, in case the person contracting for the copying should fail to
perform his contract, to cause the same to be done by some competent person.
2 Statutes of Illinois (Scates ed.), p. 734.

Oct. 1881.]

HARVEY V. UNITED

STATES.

id. 166; Watkins v. Ilolman, 16 Pet. 25, 55, 56 ; Bryan v. Forsyth, 19 How. 34; Gregg v. -Forsyth,24 id. 179.
For these reasons, the act of Feb. 18, 1857, under which all
the bonds in suit purport to have been issued, must be held
to be of no force or effect, and the plaintiffs can maintain no
action on the bonds. Upon the attempt made at the argumelit
to support their validity in the first case under the statute
of Nov. 6, 1849, and in the second case under the statute of
March 6, 1867, it is enough to say that there is nothing in the
record to show that either of those statutes was ever complied
with by the defendant in issuing the bonds, or relied on by the
plain tiff in purchasing them.
Judgments affirmed.

HAIVEY

V. UNITED STATES.

1. The rules touching the effect of the findings of fact by the Court of Claims
do not apply to the hearing of an appeal from its adjudication on a claim
whereof it took cognizance under a special act of Congress, which required
it to exercise equity jurisdiction. This court, on such an appeal, must
determine the facts as well as the law applicable thereto.
2. The advertisement by the offiecr in comnand of the arsenal of the United
States at Rock Island, Illinois, inviting proposils, and the written bid in
connection therewith which lie accepoted, constitute le terms agreed on
by the United States and the successful bidder, for building the masonry of
the piers and abutments of the bridge at Rock Island. It appearing that
the formal contract subsequently drawn up "was intended to embody only
those terms, but that by accident or nistake it varied essentially therefrom, - Held, 1. That it was competent for the Court of Claims, procceding a, a court of equity jurisdiction under the authority of the act of Aug.
14,1876, e. 279 (os/i'a, p. 680), to reform the eontract, and then determine and
adjust the accounts of the parties thereunder arising. 2. That the accepted
bid did not embrace the coffer-dam work.

APPEAL from the Court of Claims.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. -Enoch Totten for the appellants.
The Solicitor-General,with whom was Assistant AttorneyGeneral Simons, for the United States.

